tifSH- LibraryKings College LONDON Tffvvh-m (frrfo m^/t Library jW if 3^ 201241966 KINGS COLLEGE LONDON5t£.\. '5- the PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. VOLUME: FIRST; containing the doctrine and practice, relating to inflammation and irs VARIOUS consequences, tumours, aneurisms, wounds, and the states connected with them. BY JOHN BURNS, M.D. REGIUS PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY" OF GLASGOW. LONDON: LONGMAN, REES, OllME, BROWN, & GREEN. M.DCCC.XXXLToma ii /'f muTO JAMES JEFFRAY, M.D. PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF GLASGOW THIS VOLUME IS INSCRIBED, AS A MARK OF RESPECT AND ESTEEM, BY THE AUTHOR.' ? . /rumi *t »i a; ua ’» «’■ t 1 : ’ 1 ■ * •. \PREFACE. A work on Surgery, to be comprehensive and general, must be divided into three parts. First, A detail and exposition of those particular actions and conditions which are connected with inju- ries and operations in general, and of those doctrines and principles which furnish the rules of practice. Second, A minute and distinct description, of the relative situation, and particular connexion, of parts which may become the seat of disease, or the subject of operation. This constitutes what has been called Surgical Anatomy, and it is just as essential to the surgeon for the purpose of information and direction, as maps and charts are to the traveller and navigator. Third, An inquiry into the nature and treatment, of individual diseases and injuries, and the best and safest way, of performing particular operations. The first of these objects, alone, is attempted in the present volume, and although I can assure the reader that it has not been hastily published, I am well aware that, amidst so many important considerations, errors and mistakes, both in doctrine and practice, may be discovered. But of this? I am sure, and I wish to impress it on the mind of the student in the outset,VI Ul lf le Wl11 stlllly the principles and the rules, and carefully examine into their correctness, endeavouring to find proofs and arguments for their support, or grounds for overturning them ; if he will critically and laboriously, and with the single desire of arriving at t ie truth, investigate the subjects treated of, he shall by tins very study, whatever conclusion he may come to, as to the truth of the principles contained in this and similar works, form, for himself, a system of rules and doctrines, which cannot fail to be useful. I wish him not rashly to form a judgment, and still less through life to twist and bend every fact, to accord- ance with the opinions he has formed. I wish him, by the exercise I have proposed, to improve his mind, and obtain a clear, distinct, and systematic view of the principles, which are to guide him in his treat- ment of diseases. But I wish him also, day by day, to continue his studies, and, in the activity of practice, to search diligently, and strictly, into the correctness of his system, and the practical results of his rules. Weie this done, as it ought to be done, by any one of us, who has the interest of his profession at heart, or who duly attends to the responsibility which rests on him, how much more might be accomplished by even the most zealous and active amongst us ? There are many facts and practical rules, acquired by experience and observation, which cannot be de- duced from any general theory ; and, on the other hand, that system of doctrine which seems most com- plete, and best united in all its parts, does often failVll to inform us of efficient rules of practice. Whilst, therefore, I recommend to the student to form for himself some general opinions, and bring these to bear upon particular cases, I also urge him candidly to inquire, how far these carry him successfully on in practice, and where they fail, to examine minutely into the cause of failure, and the means of improve- ment. The next volume will be dedicated to the second part of the subject, or Surgical Anatomy.; ■ ’ . 'a: . v , ' • * . ' 1 jykS' ' 1 • 1 tI CONTENTS. CHAP. I. Page Preliminary Remarks on Action, ..... 1 Definition of life—two principles in nature, one active, the other passive—modifications of vitality—action—sympathy of different kinds—connexion between action and organi- zation—peculiar properties of the division of nerves— variety of function—influence of a part on the system— affection of the origin of the nerves—reciprocal action of the origin and extremity—formation of action—influence of previous impression—exhaustion—effect of cordials— defect of stimulus—debility of different kinds—complica- tion of weakness, excitement, and sympathy—strength— two principal sources of disease—no simple nosology. CHAP. II. Of Inflammation, .24 y Nature and phenomena of inflammation—particular symp- toms—proneness to affect chiefly the texture first diseased modifications—inflammation of different textures—cellular substance—fascia—skin—aponeurosis or fibrous texture tendon—synovial membrane—periosteum—ligament car- tilage—fibro-cartilage—cornea—serous membrane peri- toneum—intestine—mucous membrane—state of mucous membrane of trachea—of urethra—of villous coat of intes- tine—lung—liver—testicle—mamma—lymphatic glands lymphatic vessels—arteries—veins—nerves—brain muscle bone—are there different kinds of inflammation ? dis-X Page tmetion of—terminations—resolution—chronic tumour- suppuration—gangrene—state of blood—microscopic obser- vations—effect of inflammation on the system fever dif- ferent kinds of—stages of—essential conditions of fever- state of pulse—irritation—exciting causes of inflammation, and various kinds and modes of operation of—predisposi- tion—proximate cause, various opinions respecting experi- mental inquiry into—treatment—cause of recovery—parti- tulai remedies, general and local—variation of treatment according to the part affected—treatment of inflammation of mucous membrane—inflammation of skin, burns, and scalds—inflammation of parts unable to bear much action low inflammation ending in gangrene—causes producing it —treatment. CHAP. III. Of Mortification, 237 Division of—effect on system—cause of its spreading—treat- ment—operation of amputation. CHAP. IV. Of Suppuration, ...... . 262 Pus—abscess—constitutional effects—hectic fever—febrile ir- ritation—treatment, local and general. CHAP. V. Of Ulceration, ........ 283 Definition of—natum and progress of—treatment—species of, with their treatment. CHAP. VI. Of Tumours, ......... 305 Origin of—general principle of treatment—different varieties of tumour—different kinds of induration—plarentary tu-XI Page mour—granulated tumour—other modifications — cystic tumour—spongoid — scirrlms — lupus — wart — scrofula— encysted tumour. CHAP. VII. Of Adhesion, ......... 382 Process and nature of adhesion—restoration of lost parts— causes of adhesion not taking place—modes of effecting union. CHAP. VIII. Of Haemorrhage and Wounded Akteries, . . . 397 Effects of hmmorrhage—treatment of these—coats of arteries —consequence of an wound of an artery, and different kinds of wounds—opinions respecting the cause of hemor- rhage stopping naturally. CHAP. IX. Or Aneurism and the artificial means of restraining Haemorrhage, 420 General remarks on the state of the artery, and progress of the disease—means of restraining hemorrhage, and particu- larly of the ligature and its application—false aneurism true aneurism, symptoms, diagnosis, and general principle of treatment—source of danger from the operation means tor promoting a natural cure—of veins and their coats effects of wounding veins—aneurismal varix, and varicose aneurism. CHAP. X. Of certain States connected with, or produced by, Wounds and Injuries, .... Of shock and its different kinds—exhaustion—rallying reaction—acute sensation orpain—irritation—different statesXII ' Page of danger, tand the principle to be followed in deciding on operations—fever—arteritis—phlebitis—inflamed lymph- atics—neuritis—neuralgia. CHAP. XI. Of the Management of the Constitution under Dis- ease and Injury, 538 State of exhaustion—secondary state of excitation and inflam- mation—two different states in disease—connexion of local and general disorder—principle of treatment, and indispen- sable importance of attention to the general health as the main spring of recovery.THE PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. CHAP. I. PRELIMINARY REMARKS ON ACTION. Life, may be defined to be the principle of preservation, for the moment it is lost, destruction begins. Respecting its nature, our knowledge is very limited and imperfect. We are taught that matter itself is inert, and yet we every where discover the operation of some active power, enabling it to continue its peculiar mode of existence. There is no such thing as dead matter. Particles may change their form and arrangement, but they still remain under the mighty spell of an invisible power, which, till it be itself annihilated by the Being who called it forth, must, without dispute, both pre- serve and control them, and render it impossible to say of the most minute atom, either that it is independent, or can cease to perform its part in the economy of the universe. There are two distinct principles in nature, the one active, the other passive. The one the agent or principle of activity, the other the material, to be acted on. We can form no idea of the existence of the latter, without the former, which may therefore be looked on as the very principle of existence, and is alike essential to the most insignificant atom, if such there be, and to the stupendous masses which roll through space. B2 Of the nature of these principles we are ignorant. Whether theie be only one material substance or element capable of various modifications, or whether there be many elements essentially different from one another, it is not possible at present to determine. This much, however, we know, that from only one or two supposed elements, many varied com- binations may be formed, in all the kingdoms of nature. When analyzed, the numerous animals and vegetables are found to differ very little from each other in their elementary princi- ples. If we turn to synthesis, we meet with the same fact, for, from the same pabulum, multiform varieties are produced, apparently, by the operation of the active principle connected with the different individuals, and which is itself modified by the peculiarity of the organization or texture. The connexion between life and organization, and the mutual dependance of the one upon the other is too mysterious to be explained. But the fact we do know, that the one does modify the other, and that a certain structure and intimate organization, that of the human body, for example, has a peculiar kind of life, the exist- ence of which is manifested by special phenomena, and the performance of particular functions, which in their turn serve to preserve the principle. Water acted on by a vegetable seed, is changed and recomposed into a vegetable structure, daily increasing in size and vigour. Whence does this plant acquire its increase of vitality or active principle, which must be greater in the full grown tree, than in the embryo ? Is it not by a modification of the active principle of matter, called attraction, in the same way as the material part is supplied, by changing the organization of the absorbed matter. And again, is not the vegetable, the source of support and increment to the animal frame, whilst its principle of attraction, or active principle, becomes the source of animal vitality. Give what name we will to the agent, we must still admit its existence, and I know not how we can better account for the origin, and continuance, and increase of vegetable and animal life, than by referring it to the change of the universal principle of activity, called attraction, of the nature of which we know nothing, but of the existence of which, we have proof and demonstration3 wherever we turn our eye, or direct our thought. In the animal frame, this is incessantly added to the system, to supply the continual expenditure. When connected with the blood, it forms one species of animal life, and exhibits certain properties peculiar to itself. When the blood again is converted into the different parts of the body, life is once more modified according to the organization; and that continual supply, which is demanded by the nerves, for the performance of their peculiar functions or actions is furnished by the blood, the brain and the medulla spinalis and trunk of the nerves receiving, or secreting, it from the arteries. The existence and exhibition of the phenomena of life, or the performance of the various functions, neces- sarily implies the activity of the part which performs, and the power or energy thus expended, cannot be again com- manded; for, the performance of action, requires the exer- tion of power, and all such exertion involves expenditure. We must, then, soon arrive at a point, where, either the expenditure must cease, or the power and principle to be expended must be renewed. There is, therefore, so long as life remains, and action is performed, a continual and inces- sant alternation of expenditure and renovation. If the expen- diture or action, continue long above the power possessed, or the supply afforded, debility or death must be the conse- quence. All violent degrees, even of the healthy or natural action of the body, must end in exhaustion, and all variations in the mode of acting, or deviation from the healthy or natural action, must, by that very change of nature, inde- pendent of degree, be injurious, in as much as they neces- sarily imply, a diminished faculty of renewing energy, which is part of its natural action. I surely need scarcely say, that this speculation, for it is nothing more, respecting the origin and source of animal life, is in no respect connected with metaphysical considerations. The principles of psycology are quite different from those of physiology, and even if the materialist could maintain his position, his sceptical conclu- sions could not for one instant stand against the authority of revelation, and the general impression of mankind.4 1 he exhausting or injurious effects ol action, are not neces- sarily proportioned to its degree or intensity, compared to the natural power or energy of the part, but depend on many other circumstances. The very supply and continuation of energy is connected with action. The natural action of a part, or of the system, is necessary to the formation of energy, and if this action be too much, or too little, energy is either exhausted, or not sufficiently furnished. If, on the other hand, the action be very different in kind from the natural action, it not only exhausts, but is more or less incapable of producing energy, the formation of energy being an essential part of the natural action. If action cease, animal life ceases also ; if life cease, action ceases. There can be no action with- out the principle of vitality or energy, and that again, could not be produced, without an act or operation of the animal system. A very little action then of one kind, may be fatal, or injure a part more than a much greater degree of another kind. Action, considered apart from its degree, is injurious, and productive of weakness, in proportion as it affects function. Excessive action of a kind which greatly, and essentially impairs, the natural condition and function, exhausts in a double way. This is illustrated by different species of inflam- mation. It is a great mistake to suppose, that the degree or intensity of action, is the chief point for attention, or that any useful system of pathology can be founded solely on that principle. A part may have its action so affected, as to give rise to a state of disorder, and yet it may not be correct to say, that the action is too high or too low, although exhaustion or injury may follow. We must also attend to the sympathies produced, and their effects. Each particular class of animals, has its own peculiar mode of living or acting, but each individual of the same class, has some special modification, which is called his constitution, or his natural and healthy mode of acting, and the same holds true with regard to individual organs. Animal organization when possessed of vitality, is susceptible of the impression of certain agents, in one respect foreign to itself, and which are called stimuli, and the result of the application of certain.5 stimuli in due degree, is the production of those actions or operations, which are essential to the well being, and indeed the existence of the animal. How agents, commonly called dead matter, that is not possessed of vitality, can act on the vital principle, and excite it to various operations, and even induce a change of animal organization, is a very curious, as well as intricate speculation, into which I do not mean at present to enter, but which would not be unimportant, if we only looked at the difference between the effect of a drop of prussic acid, and the moderate application of the stimulus of heat. The property of being acted on by a stimulus is sus- ceptibility, or others call it excitability. This is not to be confounded with sensibility, which is a branch of susceptibility, peculiar to the sentient system strictly so called, nor with irri- tability which is also a different property. In the performance of this action, all the different parts of the frame sympathize more or less, but in health this is little attended to, and is not very perceptible. It is more strongly exhibited in disordered conditions. Sympathy may be exhi- bited under the three following modes. First, Sympathy of communication, or what has been called continuous sympathy, where action spreads both in kind and degree, to and from a part. It is the cause of much mischief, as well as of much good. In the progress of this work, it will be seen, that on the one hand, it may, in weakened parts become a cause of inflammation, and on the other, may become the cause of returning health to a part, the healthy or natural state of acting, being recommunicated from its neighbourhood, to that part. An organ also derives support or power from its vicinity, but action is much more readily, and more frequently communicated than power or energy. Second, Sympathy of association, by which distant organs act simultaneously, and in a similar manner. This is more peculiarly the case with some organs than with others, con- stituting a particular sympathy. There is also a general sympathy between the outer and inner ‘parts of the body, and this association is chiefly seen, when an action is rapidly6 inueased, diminished, or altered. JTlie origins and extremi- ties of the nerves sympathize thus, and a quick and instan- taneous excitement of the extremity, is likely to induce an excitement of the origin. Numerous examples of this might be given, and of the production of a train of sympathies. If the extremities of the fifth pair of nerves be excited, as in dentition, we find the origin also affected, and in many cases excitation extends thence to other parts, so as sometimes to produce general convulsions, or general disease in the brain, leading to hydrocephalus, or an involvement of the eighth pair of nerves, producing an effect on the lai’yngeal nerve, causing a temporary paralysis of the glottis, spasm or croup, or producing vomiting, purging, &c. Such affections of the stomach and bowels again, thus induced, or produced by any other cause, acting directly on them, as for instance, indi- gestible food, worms, irritating faeces, &c., and whether consisting in varieties of excitation, or connected with inacti- vity, may react on other nerves very extensively, and muscular affections, eruptions, or fevers may be among the consequences. The influence of the nerves of the alimentary canal, in thus producing extensive and also remote disease, is well known, and, perhaps from having been at one time too much over- looked, it may now have too much assigned to it. Farther, if during the existence of deep-seated inflammation, that of a bone for instance, or of the spinal sheath or pleura, we apply a sudden and great stimulus to the surface, as for instance, very hot water or caustic, we to a certainty excite the parts below, and aggravate the disease. The system sympathizes with a sudden failure of action, or loss of action in a part, as certainly as with sudden excitement of a part, and this may be manifested under any of the kinds of sympathy. Third, Sympathy of equilibrium, by which one part has its action diminished, in consequence of that of another being increased, and vice versa. This is usually produced or exhibited when the change is more gradually induced. Hence, a blister applied over the skin, covering a deep part in a state of inflammation does good, the action within lessening, as that without increases.7 These sympathies are not however invariable and uni- form in their exhibition. They hold true, particularly in so far as the second and third are concerned, not merely as to action, but also as to sensibility and sensation, and a knowledge of the effects is of great importance in disease. For instance, apply a sinapism or any rapid stimulus to the scalp, in deep-seated inflammation, and the disease is rendered worse, whilst a blister would give relief. On the other hand, apply such a stimulus in the torpid state, following an epileptic fit, and the patient rapidly recovers. Apply caustic to the spine, in an excited state of the spinal cord, and the patient is ruined; apply it in a subsequent stage when the cord is less sensible, and, perhaps, even during its painful action, the limbs which had been nearly paralytic, can be moved. The doctrine of sympathy is not only applicable to the state of health, but is still more so to that of disease. Sympa- thy is a cause of the extension of disease, but it is also a cause of recovery, for, as by the sympathy of communication, the disordered action may spread, so, on the other hand, as I have already mentioned, by the reflux, as it were, of healthy action from a part not involved in the disease, the disordered organ is improved, and a natural cure as it is called is ob- tained, partly on this principle, and partly from some actions, and degree of action, becoming feebler by continuance, if the organization be not destroyed. Many inflammations resist at first our remedies, or at the most are only kept from becoming worse; then almost spontaneously they subside, or may appear to yield to applications, although perhaps nature was of more service than the remedy. It is of great importance then in medicine, to attend to how much may be gained by mere palliation. This beneficial effect of sympathy, however, is limited; for some organizations, and corresponding actions, when once induced, cannot be changed or destroyed, and bid defiance to this principle. It is chiefly when action is so little different from the natural one, in its essential qualities, or is so limited in degree, as not to induce any decided alteration of organization, that we may hope for what is called a natural cure, effected on the principle8 explained. But there are three ways besides this, in which health may be restored to the part. First, By the new organization perishing, and being renewed in a more natural state. Secondly, By the intermedium, of a third action, not so obstinate as the one we wish to destroy. It, no doubt alters also, according to its own nature, the organization, but the alteration is less durable, than the one it has displaced. This may be illustrated by the effect of mercury, in curing venereal tumours, and would be an effectual way of curing all diseases, and of removing malignant tumours, if we knew in every instance where to find a suitable agent. Third, By attacking the action piecemeal, or counteracting the most prominent effects, by means inducing an opposite state, as for instance, by the use of cold, bloodletting, &c. The natural or healthy action of the system, and of parti- cular oi’gans, is of two kinds, the one may be called simple or preservative, consisting of those processes or conditions which are necessary to its existence or growth. The other may be called functional, constituting the performance of the office of the part. T. hus, the stomach has a preservative action, like a bone, muscle, or nerve, but has a different functional action from any of those. Within a certain limit, the natural action may be increased or diminished without an alteration in kind or quality, but if we exceed that limit, it is altered, and no such alteration can take place, or continue, without a corresponding alteration of organization. When a new or altered action, is extended over the whole system, the change in texture may be too minute to be detected by the eye, or the knife, and the existence of the change must therefore be hypothetical. But in many local actions the degree is greater. The action is as it were concentrated, and the organization is visibly altered. This applies only, or chiefly, to preservative action, for functional action may, especially if the degree be moderate, continue affected for a long time, without any change of texture, till at last the preservative action become involved, and the organization be altered. This may be illustrated by certain degrees of dyspepsia, variations in the secretion of bile,9 spasmodic action of muscular fibres, &c. Some organs are only more enlarged or developed by exercise ol function, as the mammas, testes of birds, &c. Organization and the phenomena of life are intimately connected, but often the change of the former, by the variation of the latter, cannot be detected by the eye. The texture of one animal is often not visibly different from that of another, and yet there is a great difference of nature or constitution. The organization of an animal in perfect health, and of the same animal in a state of disease, can seldom be ascertained, by the nicest inspection, to be different. The fatal effect of new actions is also sometimes produced so rapidly, that there is no time for change of organization appearing, even locally, where we would most readily meet with it. It must also be remembered, that many agents may kill quickly, not so much from the quality of the action, as from their immediately destroying the functions of a vital organ. It is consistent with reason, and confirmed by experience, that an excitation or other affection of the origin of a nerve, or of the medulla, whence it arises, should affect the extremity of that nerve, or its distribution, and produce changes or phenomena corresponding to the cause. It is no less certain, that affections of the extremities of a nerve, can influence its origin, and may produce either excita- tion or torpor, or peculiarity of action. It is also evident, the effect may not be confined to the very origin of the nerve itself, but may extend some way farther along the medulla, and thus involve nerves coming off near it, and croino- to other and distant parts. It is also highly probable, that different phenomena of life exhibited in a part, are dependant on different and distinct portions of nerves, going either separately to that part, or going connected together in one trunk. Many of these, are probably accompanied by corresponding affections of the circulation, but it is not perhaps necessary that these should be so in every case. If we irritate the foot of a frog, the circulation is excited in the iliac artery and aorta, and, likely.10 m the small branches going to the nerves and spinal cord, but 1 have not been able with the microscope, to ascertain or prove this. On the other hand, if we cut off' the leg of a frog, and apply ammonia to the raw surface of the divided member, we instantly increase the circulation in the web. It is probable that sensibility, contractility, extrication of heat, secretion, the condition of the vessels, &c. in a part, although all dependant on nervous energy, yet are effected by the intermedium of distinct nervous subdivisions. All of these may be simultaneously affected, or one principally, and that one, may ultimately involve another or the whole nervous distribution, and this holds true also, in so far as the mutual influence ol the origin on the extremity, and vice versa, is concerned, so that when one part of nervous function is chiefly affected by a cause acting immediately on the part, the origin of the nerve on which it specially depends, may be first and princi- pally influenced. There are different distinct faculties, powers, or capabilities, which we must not confound with the prin- ciple, or energy, which possesses them, and stimuli call forth these into operation, and under certain circumstances may in- crease their acuteness of operation ; neither must we confound the capability with the actual performance. It would appear that the capability may be increased or diminished, as we see in the variations both of susceptibility in general, and sensi- bility in particular. But there can be very little variation without disease. Confining our view to sensibility, we know there may be loss of feeling, as well as acute feeling, and we know also, that there is a great difference between the acute- ness, and the distinctness of impression and sensation. The primary cause of increased sensibility is not always resident in the nerves, or even the organ affected, but a remote sympathy may operate. We must not confound variation in sensibility, with variation in the mental power of perception. In considering the action of a part, we have to attend to its general condition or action as a whole, that is as an indi- vidual organ. Thus, we have to attend to the condition of the different parts of which the whole action consists, and of the organization with which these are connected, such as the11 nerves, vessels, See. Then, we have to attend to the effect on the body at large, or on particular systems, as the nervous or vascular, by this action, whether considered generally or separately in its different parts. It is quite a mistake to suppose, that in all increased degrees, and particularly disordered conditions of action, every constituent part must be equally affected. These may exist without an increase, nay, even with a diminution of the velocity and force of the circulation in the part. Although all the different parts of the body be combined into one system, and dependant on a general principle, yet individual organs do, in one sense, form separate systems, acting according to their own laws, whilst they are at the same time connected with, influenced b}r, and influencing not only the general system, but other individual organs. 1 his not only holds true of distinct organs, but even of small portions of those, or of any part of the body. If we cut off a small bit of the liver, of a rabbit for instance, and examine it with the microscope, we may see the capillai’y circula- tion going on, and can by applying spirit of hartshorn, first accelerate, and then speedily stop it. If we cut off the foot of a frog, we see the capillary circulation continue brisk, parti- cularly in the veins, though often irregular, and even can by stimulants, produce appearance of inflammation. The influence of a part in disease is various. It may affect other parts by spreading, that is by sympathy of communi- cation, or it may influence the origin of the nerves going to it, and through them, produce extensive effects. The degree and extent of involvement may not only vary, but also the nature of the state induced on the medulla may vary. There may be a peculiar or specific effect produced there, which we can no more describe, than we can the unknown and imper- ceptible peculiarity of action in the part itself first affected, or the local disease; or there may be one division of a nerve most affected. When a tumour is inactive, and no sympathy is induced, we have little or no detriment, but if there be an effect produced on the origin of any one division of nerve, we are apt to have an involvement of the neighbouring12 medulla, an,] a general effect produced, or some particular and more remote sympathy excited. If a scirrhous tumour iave its action in a manner confined to itself, and exert no sympathetic influence, the system suffers little or nothing. It is very sparingly supplied with nerves, and the effect produced on the origin of them, may be so slight, as not to produce extensive consequences, and also likely to cease, if its extremities were removed, so that a cure might be accom- plished. But if even before it become painful, or inflame, or suppurate, a more powerful influence be exerted on the origins, we find, that the whole system may be impaired, or it may be, parts more directly sympathizing with the organ, may suffer, and a state so induced may not be removed by the removal of the local cause, but the disease is by the state of the nerves, either reproduced in the part, or appears elsewhere. The same holds true with regard to other conditions. If in consequence of an injury done to a nerve, severe pain be felt, and neuralgia produced, dividing the nerve, or cutting out a part of its trunk, or even amputating the limb, does not certainly cure the disease; the state of the origin of the nerve being such, that unless that origin, and some of the neighbouring portion of medulla were destroyed, or in other words, that particular nerve every where totally obliterated, no good could be done. It matters not then whether the whole nerve be affected at its origin, or only that portion connected with sensation, or secretion, or organization, in any of these cases, there may be an influence extended to the whole system, or returned as it were to the extremities of the nerves, so as to increase the effect there. This forms what strictly speaking is re-action, a term very differently employed, how- ever, by many who confound under this name other distinct processes. Whether we confine our view to the condition of a single nerve, or extend it to many, still the term ought to be confined to this direct reciprocation. It is scarcely necessary to mention, that no one can suppose, that the influence exerted by the extremity on the origin, is to be manifested by the same phenomena at both places, whether the mode be that of sympathy of equilibrium or association. No one13 would expect that strong sensation at the extremities of the nerve, affecting the origin, should produce sensation there, but merely influence by increase or diminution, the state of that origin, on which sensation depends. If an wound or injury be inflicted on a weak or broken down system, the person may die by this re-action or reciprocal influence. In this state of the system, the wound is incapable of healing properly. It remains for a day or two without suppurating, but the system does not seem to suffer materially. Then the wound looks ill, and becomes foul or sloughy, and this state originally dependant on that of the system reacts on it; the general health rapidly is impaired, and death soon follows. The bad state of a very small wound, may in a susceptible habit, not primarily diseased, induce a dangerous state of the system, anti the most serious consequences may follow from an apparent trifle. Agents produce their immediate or local effect, with dif- ferent degrees of rapidity, according to circumstances. They may, and often do influence, the moment they are applied, so that although no perceptible change be produced, yet it has begun, and cannot be prevented by the removal or destruction of the agent, unless we also killed or destroyed the surface acted on. They may also be more slow, so that if removed, no effect shall take place. The constitutional or more general effect, is not always immediately manifested, and is often preceded by phenomena, simply resulting from interference with the due performance of the natural or healthy action of the nervous system, and therefore met with preceding very different diseases. They may be called the symptoms proper to the stage of forma- tion of die new action, and consist of coldness, languor, sickness, &c. The interval between the application of the local cause, and the appearance of those phenomena, proper to the period ol formation, as well as those peculiar to the constitutional disease itself, varies in different cases, but with regard to some agents, as for example, certain morbid poisons, and conta- gions, it is pretty uniform, as we see in small-pox, measles,14. &c. Now were we to suppose two very different'agents to be applied at the same time, each capable of affecting the system after the same interval, it is evident, that either the two actions, they are capable of producing, must become blended to a certain degree, or, that the one must take precedence of the other. But unless it can render the system unsusceptible of the other, that will go on after the first is finished. This can only be explained by supposing, that the one suspended, keeps its hold on the part it first acted on, or resists the action of the other in that part. It is not eradicated, whether we look to the origin, or extremities of the nerves influenced, but is merely bridled and kept down by the other. If this be correct, we can also understand how it may be completely extinguished without manifestation, if the first action be very powerful and long continued. Mr. Hunter, who notwith- standing all his obscurity, was the first who took a scientific view of surgery, held the position, that “ no two different fevers can exist in the constitution, nor two local diseases in the same part, at the same time,” and this is quite true, if we restrict the position to distinct and independent actions; it would be folly to suppose the contrary. But we undoubtedly may have two actions sometimes blended, and we may, parti- cularly in eruptive diseases, have the remains of a first disease visible, the action or disease itself having gone, whilst a second has begun. The application of a contagion which acts quickly, may, after the introduction of one which is more slow, take precedence. Thus scarlatina may be caught after exposure to the contagion of measles, and its interval being shorter, it may take precedence of the measles, and retard its appearance. We may also have a new action affecting the system, and that not only without displacing a former diseased action in a part, but so altering it, as to render it much more active, and in other cases, bringing the system into a state in which more extensive disease is excited. This is illustrated by the effect of mercury on cancer, and many kinds of phagedaena. If the mercurial action can be blended with the natural action, or in other words, exist within limi- tation, without destroying that, which would be destroying15 life, it follows, that it may exist with other modifications of action, called disease, else it should always either destroy that disease, or kill the patient, yet it neither is a panacea, nor, unless pushed to a great extent, is it fatal. What holds true of mercury, as a partial illustration, holds true in the general principle. Agents ought in a similar state of the system always to produce a similar effect. But the impression and sensation may be different, and sympathies may vary, so as to alter the state of the system, and render the effects of a medicine very different the twentieth time it is given, from that produced for nineteen times before. There are cases where a particular action having been long performed, under a certain impres- sion of body or mind, that comes to be in a manner natural, and if a chain of other actions have been associated with this, it is very difficult to break that, if the original action be not also stopped. It is on this principle that a very small stimulus or slight excitement, often is rendered sufficient to produce a great effect, particularly when that effect is mani- fested not in the part directly acted on, but indirectly, as if the part were merely a spring, which now, however slightly touched, sets the rest in motion. With the exception of these cases, the general rule is, that stimuli, in order to produce the same effect, require by repetition, to be increased more or less, according to circumstances, and ultimately, very large doses may be taken, when the effect is simple and direct. ^ e are told, that a smaller impression after a greater is not readily perceived. This is true with regard to similar, but not different or opposite sensations, nor even to the same, when the action of the part is quite changed. It is not true with regard to excitement and action; for a small stimulus, particularly of the same nature with the former, adds to the effect. It may be said, that if a person be exhausted by action, another stimulus should make him worse, and it should be so according to some systems, and is really true, with respect to the continuation of the same stimulus in many instances. If fatigued to exhaustion, any farther exertion would sink10 still more, and any stimulus which irritated or gave pain, would do so also, and from sympathy, the heart, stomach, &c. are much weakened, and the sentient system rendered uncom- fortable. Now some stimuli, such as cordials, do excite the sinking stomach, the feeble heart, and sooth the sentient system, and if the cause be removed, recovery soon takes place. In other cases, as for instance, in haemorrhage, before the secondary effects of that take place, cordials to a certain extent, are substitutes for the sudden subduction of stimulus, and counteract the fatal sinking. Wine does not produce a greater effect in mere weakness, or after haemorrhage, than in other cases, unless there be complications which render excitement different in its effects. Its narcotic and inebriating effects, vary also according to the state of the system. In some states of debility, as in certain fevers, and very often in the primary condition, induced by haemorrhage, much wine may be taken without inebriating. It is supposed that in a state of fasting wine produces soon as intoxicating, as well as an exciting effect, but whenever this appears to be the case, there are other circumstances which have a greater influence than the mere state of weakness induced by fasting. Cordials act on the extremities, and thence on the origins of the nerves. They induce a peculiar action in the functional nerves, allied to that produced by food on the stomach, more than on those for the preservation of life of the part, or for sensation, but partly on them too. They speedily affect the whole nervous system, and through it the sanguiferous. The effect is not mere stimulation or excitement, for heat and spiceries do not act so. They do harm whenever they excite the diseased action to greater activity. They do good when- ever there is a deficiency in those actions, which they aie capable of increasing, such as the evolution of heat, nervous excitation, circulation, &c. A certain kind of excitement is connected with the very production of nervous energy, and in those diseases where there is a defect of energy from mere exhaustion, or mere debility, they, by exciting in the stomach a natural action or function, do by sympathy, excite a more natural action elsewhere, but their effect is limited in this17 view. A more effectual mode of operating is, however, by their sympathetic effect on the brain and spinal marrow, through the medium of the nerves, for some of these, alcohol for instance, produce this effect, if applied externally in suffi- cient quantity. They have also more or less of a narcotic or soothing effect, il not pushed too far. But there may be cases of great debility, where, from particular local circum- stances, they do more harm than good, exciting the vascular, rather than soothing the nervous system. We must also remember, that some have more of a stimulant, and less of a soothing effect, and vice versa. A substitution of one stimulus for another, which is removed or diminished, is often of use, as for instance, in the primary effects of haemorrhage, but it is never of service either generally or topically, when it does not allay uneasy sensation. This is seen in the case of scalds and burns. An excitement which changes the action or disease, does virtually become a soother or sedative. It may operate either on the sensation, or the general action. Defect of stimulus produces sensation, and may give pain oy changing the degree or quality of action, or condition of the part, and affecting the extremities of the nerves of sensa- tion. A new state may be produced, as certainly by defi- cient, as by excessive stimulation, and this from its differ- ence, and unfitness, and sensation, may prove an excitement to the part, and thus, notwithstanding the seeming contra- diction, the very state of the part produced by loss of one stimulus, and which, we should say, ought to lessen action or excitement, may indirectly prove a cause of excitement. It is a giievous error in pathology, to estimate the consequences of the causes of disease, by their direct, or apparently direct powers, without attending to their secondary and sympa- thetic effects. Action varies in its effects, according to the affection of particular constituent parts of the organ, or of particular parts of the function. Sensation and secretion are of much importance, but not so much as when all the con- stituent parts of the action ai’e affected, for then we speedily have a change of organization, which often is unfit to bear c18 much. Great pain may be endured in neuralgia with less risk, than little pain, in inflammation, where there is a change of organization. Actions merely involving sensation, the forma- tion of heat, and perhaps all secretions, do not necessarily alter the organization, (and seldom do so, unless carried to a great degree, and continued long). Sensation, however, may become an exciting cause of inflammation. In one respect, all the parts of the body relatively con- sidered, are equally strong, that is alike fitted, and able to perform their office, and bear the action of those stimuli, which are natural to them. Yet it is notorious, that inflam- mation of one part shall oftener kill that part, and sink the system, than inflammation of another part would do. This is not from the effect of simple depression; for wTe may in inflammation of the testicle, have, from the sympathetic influ- ence on the stomach, great depression; or we may produce that by tartar emetic, but shall not have the same dangerous conse- quences resulting, as from inflammation of the small intestines. Still this depression may, and must have a certain degree of influence. One part can bear a greater degree of particular kinds of stimuli, and of action than another, yet we could not say that a part which sunk under the effect of a small stimulus of a particular kind, had positively low vitality. Some parts have, by disease, great sensation produced, and these, ceteris paribus, sink soonest, when inflammatory action is present, and essentially connected with the sensibility. Another cause of sinking, is the want of support from other parts, or the advantage of sympathy of communication. In this way, the intestines, which are in one respect insulated and loose, do not derive in disease support from the neigh- bouring parts; and the extremities, although in health, they, when wounded, bleed as freely and feel as sensibly as the trunk, yet in disease may derive less support than parts nearer the centre, or larger, and more connected with the trunk. Diseases of a complex nature affecting the organiza- tion, and injuring or destroying the function, do seem by the destruction of function, to injure the organ more than the same degree of inflammation of a simple part would do, and19 hence, inflammations of the viscera are, setting other causes aside, dangerous, and that in proportion to the sympathy they exert, and quite independent of the remote consequence of loss of function. In ordinary language, a part or system is said to be weak, which is unable to perform or sustain any considerable degree of action, and very often there is a mistake made in con- founding susceptibility with debility. A part may perform perfectly, and in a full degree its healthy action, and yet may be very l’eadily excited to disordered action by stimuli, and when so disordered, may remain long in that state, or sink soon under it. Now this may be the case in persons who have a full proportion of muscular strength, or who look well, and enjoy good health. They are not weak, and yet are unable to resist or sustain disease. Weakness may depend on diminished quantity of vital principle, if we may be allowed to speculate on what we know so little of, but much oftener is connected with, and dependant on the state of action, and the influence of sympathies. T. here are different kinds of weakness considered in relation to disease, or to any action. First, Primary or antecedent weakness, induced by priva- tions or evacuations, or perhaps original feebleness of consti- tution. In this case, there is the simplest form of debility or diminution of power, and consequently of ability to sustain action. But this simple and pure debility is rarely if ever met with, for there is speedily produced, by the very causes of debility, a new' or unnatural state, often of an excited kind. Haemorrhage, which we should choose as an example of a pure debilitating cause, does ultimately induce an irritated or excited state of the vessels. Abstinence not only -weakens, but by sensation excites disordered action of the stomach. The debility of age is seldom pure, it is complicated with the effects of torpor of the nervous system, languor of the circulation, ossification of arteries, and often change of texture in various organs. This kind of debility renders an injury more dangerous, productive of a greater shock, and less20 xeadiJy recovered from. It ought to be taken into account on determining an operation. There is no direct sedative, if by that be understood a diminisher of action. Loss of blood, cold, abstinence, &c. lessen action only by subducting stimuli, but even these may be so managed as to cause excitation. Those agents which do produce conjunct weakness, increase for a time, action, but the action is not of a kind to do good. The peculiar effect of many of these on certain parts of the nervous system, or on the stomach, must also be taken into account, separately from their direct effect on the part on which they immediately act. They may kill by their effect on the brain and circula- tion. If we confine our attention to the obvious effect pro- duced on the circulation in the part itself, we shall invariably find, I believe, that it is increased. If we apply prussic acid, putrid animal fluid, decoction of ergot, solution of acetate of lead to the web of a frog, this is observable. Belladonna, which acts so decidedly on the retina, decidedly makes the capillary circulation brisker. Digitalis, though it may pro- duce a momentary pause, or slowness in the circulation, almost immediately quickens it, particularly in the veins. Second, Consecutive or secondary debility, produced by previous action, as for instance by high inflammation, or severe injury, or any other species of excitation, beyond the powers of the part, or of the system, safely to sustain. This requires consideration in determining an operation after injuries. Many circumstances increase the effect of causes capable of producing this, beyond what we can account for, merely on a calculation of disproportioned action. Great and sudden sensation has a powerful effect of sinking. A very susceptible state of the system has the same effect, and hence a degree of disease exactly proportioned to the strength of the infant and adult, will have a more powerful effect on the former, than on the latter: we must also consider the actual degree of power, or antecedent weakness existing; for the child, and the old man, are both sooner worn out than the middle aged. This kind of debility is well named exhaustion.21 Third, Conjunct weakness, produced by the nature of the action, which is so opposite to the natural one, that it not onlv exhausts, but impairs or destroys the power of renewing energy, which is one part of the natural action. This is the case with respect to several animal poisons, and certain causes producing what is called gangrenous inflammation. We may to this head also refer most, if not all of those cases, where peculiarity of weakness is produced by affections of necessary functions. If venous blood circulate in the arteries, in place of arterial blood, there is not only a want of due and healthy excitement to the nerves, but a direct bar to the formation or renewal of nervous energy. Carbonic acid inhaled into the lungs, not only acts directly on the nerves of the lungs, but in this way on the blood, and asphyxia is produced; other agents may produce similar effects, varying from complete asphyxia, down to slight and modified degrees of it. On this principle, whenever the heart or lungs are decidedly imper- fect in their action, we find that injuries and disease are, cetens paribus, more dangerous, and less easily recovered from. We are also more shy in operating. Ossified arteries may often produce a similar influence. If by any cause the natural preservative action of the part be diminished, the power also is lessened, and the debility produced, may either be conjunct or antecedent, according to the nature of the case. But it is of importance to remember, that this obser- vation is not applicable to that class of actions, which is not immediately necessary to the life and preservation of the part. ^ here may be suspension of performance of certain functions, or a quiescence of the part, in so far as peculiar function is concerned, without debility. It is also possible for certain parts of action, or properties of an organ, to be impaired, or even suspended, and yet that organ may be in a state of too high action, considered generally; a part may also, without being in a state of excitement or overaction, have such a disordered condition produced, as shall give rise to irritation, and cause, directly or indirectly, exhaustion. 'I here is also a state which, strictly speaking, can scarcely )e ca ed weakness, in which the energy is not exhausted nor22 diminished, but the pai't is for a time, as it were, controlled or overpowered in its action. This, however, must soon lead to weakness. It is quite possible for a part to be rendered unfit to continue its function, and yet it may itself be in a state of inordinate action, or the same effect may be produced by a sudden shock. If we inject into the abdomen of a rabbit a little spirit of ammonia, the posterior extremities are instantly slightly convulsed, and then lose more or less completely their power, the animal supporting himself entirely on the fore legs, which with the head, retain their power. This experiment may illustrate certain cases of paraplegia, and also some affections of the extremities, succeeding to abdominal or pelvic disease, and varying according to the rapidity and intensity of the action. We must also in practice consider the complication of these different kinds of weakness, with different excitements, and variety of sympathies. There is a state of the system pro- duced sympathetically by the effect of long continued excite- ment, or irritation of a particular organ, or by some other state of it, as torpor or inactivity, and this requires great attention. It is not always the same, for it is modified in its nature and degree by the cause. A continued course of intemperance, a diseased liver, or scirrhous uterus, or testicle, a cancerous breast, or irritated, or torpid bowels, &c. may not only produce a general debility of the system, but a complication of excited or disordered states, which shall have a most unfavourable influence on all accidents and acute diseases. Strength in the ordinary acceptation of the word, is the power of acting strongly without speedy injury or exhaustion ; but, medically, different views may be taken of the state. In one view, it may be considered as implying only a moderate degree of sensibility, and susceptibility, so that the part, or the system, not only resists more the influence of moderate degrees of certain stimuli or agents, but when it is subjected to it, bears up longer under it, without sinking. This tena- city of the healthy action, and power of resisting, and also of23 sustaining disease, does not depend on the absolute quantity of energy. Connected with this, is often an absence of any peculiar tendency to such important sympathies as would injure the system. Some, have the power of speedy restora- tion or recovery, others, run from great susceptibility very readily into disease, by slight causes, and may sink soon under it. Some organs in different individuals, and at different periods of life, are better able to resist or sustain than others. Strength, in the ordinary meaning of the term, is quite different from health; for many act more weakly than others of the same age, and apparent constitution, and yet are in perfect health, and those who are apparently in high health, are not the strongest in a medical sense. It will be well to bear in mind, that in one respect, there are two principal sources of disease : the state of the origin, and that of the extremity of the nerves ; and causes acting on either of these, may produce diseases apparently the same. Next, in our arrangement we might proceed to state, that the origin of the nerve may be in a state of excitement, or of inactivity, or torpor. Then, the effect may be confined to the part, or to the nerves originally implicated, or it may be extended to other organs, or the general system may be involved; but on investigation it will be found, that there is perhaps scarcely an example of a universal disease, or a general disease, in the strictest sense. The whole, or greater part, of one or more systems may be affected, such as the skin, heart, nervous system; yet other systems or parts may not suffer at all, or only in a general, not a specific way by sympathy. They may, as for instance, the muscular system, suffer by weakness, &c. but not be affected by the specific disease. Thus we have the multiplied varieties of excitation, or irritation, each differing in its nature and degree, as well as in the extent and direction of the sympa- thies induced; and in a multitude of instances, we can scarcely say, that action is either partially increased or diminished in its degree, or that there is either more or less absolute excite- ment, but only a variation in the action. Thus, there is no possibility of forming a simple system of nosology, the com-24 plications being in so far indescribable, that there are scarcely two specimens of the same disease exactly alike. We can do little more than confine our description to general and essential characters, for it would be as impossible to give an account of the varieties, as it would be to describe the arrangement of the motes which dance in the sunbeam ; and yet, on attention to these varieties, to the peculiarity of constitution, and the existing sympathies must depend, the rational treatment, perhaps, the preservation of the patient. CHAP. II. OF INFLAMMATION. SECTION FIRST. Whenever the natural preservative action of a part is increased or urged beyond a certain degree, it becomes alto- gether changed in its nature and phenomena, and the result is soon a new state called inflammation. This apparently bears no resemblance to the natural or healthy action, and yet, when analyzed, it is found to be made up of the different parts of the natural and proper action of the part, as certainly as the deep or almost black colour of one portion of a fluid, may be proved to depend merely on the concentration of those colouring particles, which in another portion, have produced the most delicate azure tint. Nosologists have considered the existence of inflammation to be marked by redness, heat, and pulsating pain of the part, and to these symptoms some add tumour. It would be by no means difficult to show, that these phenomena do not necessarily indicate the presence of actual inflammation, for they may exist without it, and on the other hand, it may be present without the whole of them. There are certain affections of the nerves of sensation, accom- panied both with heat and throbbing, and which yet are not inflammatory. If we redden such a part by friction, andmakeit swell by the application of a cupping-glass, we have all the characters of inflammation without the disease; on the other hand, it is notorious, that in many of the worst and most dangerous inflammations, there is no sense of pulsation, and sometimes very little pain, except on moving or irritating the part. In certain degrees of pleurisy there is little or no pain, except on drawing a full inspiration. Apply an excite- ing cause of inflammation to a part, and vei'y soon the prominent symptoms appear, and yet the part is not actually inflamed. There can be no actual inflammation without a change of texture or organization. No inflamed part is the same as it was before inflammation, and this change is not as some suppose, confined to the vessels. They are changed, and altered in size, and apparently in number, but this does not constitute the action. In blushing, the capillaries contain red blood, which they did not do before, yet blushing is not inflammation. There is a change of the organization alto- gether, but more in one department than in another, and thus, as action and organization modify each other, we have variations and modifications of inflammation, according to the natural texture and action of oi’gans and parts; and some of these complications or modifications, which are not essential to the inflammatory action, may aggravate or moderate it. We cannot consider even the simple action of inflammation as consisting in any one simple change, whether we call it debility, or overaction, or enlargement of the vessels, or whatever else the fancy of the theorist may propose. Although, therefore, I set out with saying, that if we analyzed the inflammatory action, we should find it resulting from an excitation or augmentation of the natural preservative action of the part, yet it is not to be understood that I mean that it is merely an increase of vascularity, sensibility, &c. On the contrary, it is a new, and distinct, and unnatural action, leading to, and connected with, a new and unnatural organ- ization. And this leads me in limine to a most important remark, namely, that a cause of inflammation, whatever other mischief it may do, does not all at once produce actual inflammation, or change of organization, but a state26 more analogous to that which may be explained by blushing, though different from it, where we have heat, vascularity, &c. and which state is preliminary to true inflammation. In this state, we may by venesection and other means, much more readdy check disease, and restore health, than after organiza- tion has been changed. Then, nothing, in too many instances, can alter the action; and, as we shall soon see, another cause connected with the state of the origin of the nerves, increases the obstinacy. Of how much importance then is the first hour. When a part is inflamed, it usually becomes more vascular, and generally more heat is evolved, but the sensation is gieatei than can be accounted for, from the mere increase of quantity. 'Ibis proceeds from increased sensibility, which is also one cause of the pain attendant on inflammation. It would be superfluous to prove that sensibility may be increased, but still this is very often more apparently, than really so. If we take off the cuticle, the nerve is very sensible, but this pioceeds merely from its being deprived of a covering. If blood or other substances press on sentient extremities, which were formerly free, they may be excited to sensation, but there is not increased sensibility; whenever sensibility is increased, it is in consequence of disease. Hot water is applied to the skin, and gives great sensation by acting on the nerves in their ordinary state of sensibility; but presently an increased state of tenderness or sensibility is produced, so that stimuli which formerly would have had no effect, have a great influ- ence. This proceeds from a change in the state or capability of the sentient nerve itself which may be caused by the influence ol its vessels on it, for the action is reciprocal. In other cases, the cause is more distant, perhaps at the origin ol the nerve, or some remote sympathy may operate. In inflammation, excited not by a cause affecting sensation, such as scalding water, increased sensibility is one part of the change affected, and may be connected with the greater sensibility of the nerves, as well as the condition produced at their origins. It must therefore vary in different cases, and so must sensation. Another cause of sensation is the27 mere novelty of the action, or condition, for perception is greatly dependant on novelty. The degree of heat is often very little beyond that which is natural, sometimes even a little below it. In acute phlegmon, and in some cutaneous inflammations, the quantity of heat evolved is considerable. There may be even such increase without corresponding sensation, for sensibility is not always increased. There may also be a species of smarting combined with the feeling of heat, and even mistaken for it. The actual increase of temperature is greater in inflamma- tion of parts of the extremities, for it is doubtful if the temperature of internal viscera be increased much beyond their natural degree, which may be stated at an average to be 100°. This is higher than the temperature of the blood newly drawn, which is only 98°. It may, however, in its changes, give out a higher degree, and actually does so. In a case of dropsy, related by Mr. Hunter, the fluid drawn from the abdomen was 104°, consequently the cavity itself must have been at least as warm. In a case of ovarian dropsy, which I lately attended with Dr. Gibson, the thin fluid drawn from the general cavity of the abdomen, raised the thermo- meter to 102°, whilst the thick fluid from the cyst raised it only to 100°. It has been said, that blood in coagulating, rises in temperature, particularly in inflammation, but I have not been able to verify this. Parts whose natural heat is below the highest degree met with at the thoracic and abdominal cavities, have the temperature increased by inflam- mation, and sometimes seven or eight degrees above their usual heat, and this is often seen in cases of cutaneous inflam- mation, or phlegmon and erysipelas. Dr. Thomson men- tions, that an inflamed gland in his groin gave out as much heat in four days as would have heated seven wine pints of water to 212°, and yet it did not fall at the end of the time below the temperature of the rest of the body. There may be inflammation with very little pain, and this happens oftener in some organs than others. There are various degrees of pain, depending on the natural or acquired sensibility of the part, and also on the peculiarity of the action28 itself, for inflammation is not always in every respect the same. Inflammation with much is, ceteris paribus, more dangerous than with little pain, and where pain is a prominent symptom, the progress is rapid. Perhaps many cases of supposed cramp in the stomach, are essentially gastritis: in other parts pain is often the earliest and most prominent symptom, so that the disease passes for spasmodic. The pain then gradually abates, but afterwards the true nature of the disease is evinced by abscess. This is particularly the case in inflammation of the cellular substance lying between the pelvic or abdominal muscles and the peritonaeum. Some parts, till inflammation have made great progress, evince little sensation, not being in a natural state sensible to some stimuli which act readily on other parts. A paralytic part may inflame without sensa- tion. Function may be also much more affected than sensa- tion, particularly in certain structures, as for instance mucous membranes. Redness is not essential to inflammation, for those textures which have only serous vessels, may have these more enlarged, and altered, without containing red blood. Thus, in the lucid cornea a certain degree of inflammation productive of cloudiness rather than of redness, unless the conjunc- tiva be also inflamed. It may be denied that this is a state of actual inflammation, but it is attended with the other symptoms, and followed by the usual conse- quences, and often accompanied with more acute inflamma- tion in the neighbourhood, marked by redness. If we inject solution of salt under the skin of a frog’s leg, a beautiful arborescence of vessels is produced, with interstices which are not altered in colour; or if we inflame the foot, the whole of the web, although exposed alike to the influence of the cause, is not red, even when viewed with the microscope, and yet it would be unwarrantable to say, that the spots or portions which intervened between the red vessels, or formed the area of the meshes, were not inflamed, for they even, in many cases, mortify. Thei’e is, however, this difference between the two cases, that in the first, the cornea taken as a whole, is scarcely, if at all red, whilst in the second a meshwork of red29 vessels is formed. In some tumours of a white colour, we may have only one or two branches apparently carrying red blood, whilst to the naked eye, the rest of the texture is not red. There is however a change in the nature of the fluid, and in the capacity of the vessels, for transparency is always diminished. Redness, however, is almost invariable, and may be detected by careful observation, when at first sight it is not very distinct. It differs in its intensity according to the nature of the part, and the degree of the inflammation, and is also influenced by the character of the disease. No new vessels are formed, but the existing ones become greatly enlarged, and those containing formerly only colour- less fluid, now receive red blood, which leads to the appear- ance as if new vessels had been produced; but we find when the texture of the part considerably increases, the vessels also elongate, so that in this view we may say, that there is a new formation of vascular canal, the former shooting or becoming larger. But when there is no great tumefaction and enlarge- ment of the organ, or inflamed part, there may be intense led ness, without the formation of one new circle to a single vessel. Apply hot w'ater to the skin, or irritate the eye, and in less than a minute the vessels enlarge, so as to make multi- tudes visible whei’e none were seen before. If strong solution of salt be applied to the foot of a frog, the capillary vessels are observed by the microscope to become rapidly larger and filled with red blood. The wreb is speedily converted into a network of red vessels, not one of which is new. If this inflammation be curable, we find that by covering for a short time the foot with bits of ice, the redness goes off, and the vessels become again.pellucid, transmitting only brilliant globules swimming in a nearly colourless fluid. In no one case is a single new vessel formed by the simple act of inflam- mation. Injecting a little solution of salt under the skin of a frog’s leg, also produces instantly an arborescence of red ves- sels, although none were visible before, even with a good glass. In many cases, the redness depends on the minute injection of the vessels with red blood, as for instance, in the com- mencement of conjunctive; but in almost every instance of30 inflammation with swelling, or phlegmon, the redness proceeds greatly from infiltration or extravasation of blood, or bloody fibrin into the cells. Redness, however, even when accompanied by pain, is no proof of the existence of inflammation in the part. These changes may take place in the vicinity of an inflamed spot from mere excitement, so as to make inflammation appear to be more extensive than it really is, for the intimate texture of this portion is not altered. Swelling is an attendant, to a greater or less degree, accord- ing to the texture of the part. It is in some, apparently little, but if compared to the natural thickness of the part, membrane for instance, it is considerable. It is produced partly by the turgescence or enlargement of the vessels, but principally by new deposition. In inflammation, for example, of mucous or serous membranes, the turgescence is principally from the number and size of the vessels, whilst in inflammation of the cellular substance, it is chiefly from new deposition. The interstitial fluid which was naturally secreted into the cells is altered, and becomes more like fibrin, though still perhaps containing albumen, and this being increased in quantity, not only renders the part larger, but also harder. There is, besides, in all serous inflammations, partial extrava- sation of red blood, sometimes to a considerable degree. If we inflame the intestine of a rabbit, and examine it with the microscope, we see not only multitudes of red vessels, but also here and there, particles of extravasation into the substance of the canal. If we inflame a muscle, we see its fibres often infiltrated with blood, or in those animals whose muscles are pale, as the rabbit or frog, the inflamed part is distinguished not so much by its vascularity, as by its deeper colour, from general effusion of blood. But in the lung this is still better seen, the arborescence of vessels on the surface of the inflamed part being distinguishable from the engorgement of blood in the cellular texture, which gives the part a solid appearance. In slighter degrees there are only particles of blood, or spots, where the inflammation is most intense. Although these effu- sions of blood may frequently occur in inflammation, yet31 they are not essential to its existence. When blood is effused, it afterwards undergoes changes in the progress of the disease, and loses its colouring matter. Farther, the organic particles which ought to be regularly deposited in lieu of these absorbed, seem more or less altered, but chiefly in the cellular texture. From these causes, when a phlegmon is cut, it appears like a bloody mass of thick cells filled with fibrin and blood. In many cases the cells are so distended, that the mass appears to be made up of firm gelatinous looking fibrin, more or less red, and in some places the blood appears to be effused and coagulated with very little change. In all intense inflammations rapidly produced, the first effusion, I believe, is blood. Into the neighbouring cells where there is no actual inflammation, serum and modified albumen are soon deposited, so as to produce a degree of oedema. Setting aside then altogether the change which takes place in the vessels, and in the action of the nerves, there is a marked alteration in the organization of the part, which not only has its natural cells filled with fibrin, mixed probably with more or less albumen, but the organic particles, whether osseous, tendinous, or fibrous, natural to the organ, are imperfect, or different from what they ought to be. This is more marked, however, in some textures than in others, under the same degree of inflammation ; but it is not to be confounded with the mere deposition of fibrin, which is always greatest in cellular substance. If this deposition be not absorbed or destroyed, it undergoes farther changes of a secondary nature, and remains as a parasite, or new structure. A phlegmon is hard and solid to the feel. It is not sharply defined, but shades off into the surrounding parts, which are slightly cedematous. The skin over the tumour is more or less red tinged with yellow. It then becomes more glossy and red, sometimes florid, oftener of a shade of purple lrom the number of veins, or it continues dusky, or is of a very pale red, and watery or infiltrated appearance. The whole is tender to the touch, but when it can bear pressure, there is early observed on the apex, a softening or elasticity, which extends in proportion as matter forms.) Although an inflamed part be often hard to the touch, yet hardness forms no part of the essential character of inflamma- tion. It depends greatly on the rapidity and extent of the effusion of blood or fibrin, and the modifications of the last, on the texture of the part, and whether it be confined within a capsule. It may also come on as a remote consequence. Softening of the texture, particularly of the cellular substance, is a general consequence of inflammation, if it continue above a day or two. SECTION SECOND. Inflammation may begin in one texture, or in the whole substance of an organ, according to the nature and extent of the exciting cause. It is more apt to travel along the texture originally affected, than to affect others to the same degree, but it is quite an error to suppose that these are exempted; for they all sooner or later participate, and earlier and more strongly, if the exciting cause shall have influenced them at first, though not to the extent of producing inflam- mation. The cellular substance is most frequently affected, and being very extensive, inflammation may spread deeply and widely, and either involve the muscles, &c. or not, according to the nature and potency of the cause. Some- times the muscles and great vessels are in a manner insulated, but this is oftener the case in spreading suppurations than in extended inflammations. If the action have been irreffu- O larly affected, and the inflammation have penetrated deeply, the disease shall often be found to have spread farther in the skin, than in the muscles, a fact of some importance in those cases where, in consequence of mortification, amputation may be required. By means of cellular substance, inflammation is often propagated, or if membranous connexions exist, it may spread along them. Thus, if the umbilical veins inflame, we may have inflammation extending along the peritonaeal coat of the liver or bowels, there being an intimate adhesion of the peritonaeum"to the vein. If the uterus be inflamed, disease may spread from its outer coat to the rest of the peritonaeum, or if the veins be inflamed, there may be an extension of the33 disease along their trunks. If the veins of the arm or the absorbents be inflamed, the disease spreads faster and farther along them, than in the other textures, but is not confined to them; on the contrary, the cellular texture participates. II the fascia ol the limb be inflamed, the skin often partici- pates, though not to the same degree, and a kind of cedematous erysipelas is produced. The bone may be inflamed, and the disease for a length of time confined to it and the periosteum. All these facts show, that inflammation beginning in one tex- ture, may be confined for a time principally to that, and may spread along it, but that ultimately other parts and composi- tions participate. In the bowels, we may have the peritoneal 01 mucous coats principally affected, but both do in general ultimately participate, though not to the same extent and degree, both being generally greatest in the coat where the disease began. O But although one texture in a limb, or organ, may be the piincipal seat of inflammation, as for instance a vein, it is to be remembered that the whole composition of that vein, its vessels, nerves, and coats, are inflamed. If we, on the other hand, select an organ in a state of inflammation, we have onb extend the action to a greater number of parts, and have an inflammation of vessels, nerves, muscles, skin, &c. but not always in the same proportion, and hence, one source of modification of inflammation. But in all severe diseases, the whole is involved in the action, for the whole dies or mortifies. On the other hand, when only one tissue or subdivision is inflamed, as, for instance, the skin, that alone mortifies. It is also possible for some parts of the general composition to perish, although they be not brought into a state of actual inflammation. They sink or suffer by sym- pathy, and by having their functions injured. SECTION THIRD. \\ hilst the inflammatory action possesses certain essential characters, it nevertheless, in so far as some of its pheno- mena and consequences are concerned, is capable of modi- fication, according to circumstances, namely, First, The D34 natural organization and function of the part affected, and its sympathetic properties, and connexion with the system. Second, The condition of the part, with regard to strength, weakness, sensibility, and susceptibility. Third, The nature and intensity of the exciting cause, and the circumstances concomitant with its application and operation. I have already, as an illustration of the local condition in inflammation, described the state in phlegmon, and therefore have little to say on the nature of inflammation of cellular substance, strictly so called. The alteration produced is universal. The vessels, particularly the smaller ones and capillaries, are greatly enlarged, so that without any new formation the part is more vasculai’, which makes it some- what more turgid. But the cellular texture itself, and parti- cularly its contents, are affected. The substance becomes so far altered, that it is more easily torn, and the deposition, whether merely interstitial or of a sebacious nature, is altered, both becoming fibrinous, and partly albumenous. By tearing and maceration, with occasional pressure, it. will be found, that the whole mass is more fibrinous; so that the part, when cut, has a solid, yet gelatinous appearance. This deposition is not only mixed with the coloui’ing part of the blood, but in several parts, blood, with very little, if any alteration, is effused, either as if into a spunge, or into larger and more distinct cavities. In the immediate neighbourhood, a serous or albumenous fluid is secreted into the cellular substance, which may be coagulated by heat. These changes produce a hard circumscribed swelling of the part, shading off into the neighbourhood, by a kind of oedematous state. If the inflam- mation be severe, we soon find that the corium or derma becomes involved. Its outer vascular layer, or reticular texture, becomes more injected, which produces superficial redness. This differs according to cucumstances. When it is intense, and the albumenous effusion over the surface is con- siderable, the skin is smooth, glossy, first bright, and then deep red or purple in its colour. If there be very slight effusion under the epidermis, most minute spots of vesication appear, so as to make the surface seem irregular, oedematous,35 and of a pale red colour. If the inflammation go on, the hardness at the surface is exchanged for elasticity, and sup- puration takes place. The sensation attendant on inflamma- tion ol the cellular substance is variable; generally it is described, as that of heat, with painful throbbing. It is not however easy to describe a pain. This is more or less acute, and is either confined almost entirely to the spot, or extends along the member, according to the nerves involved, and the effect on the subjacent parts. The pain sometimes is the first symptom which calls the attention of the patient to the part; but when it is called, there is always swelling to be discovered. In other cases, pain does not take place for a considerable time. The inflammation of the subcutaneous cellular substance usually begins in one spot, namely, that on which the cause acted, and is confined to that, and its immediate neighbourhood, unless excitation or other additional causes, in which I may include, what are called constitutional conditions, make it spread. I do not prosecute farther the changes, as they will be con- sidered under suppuration. If the person die, and the part be examined, it will be found gorged and swelled in the way described, and the vessels are generally filled with coagulated blood, so that even size cannot be pushed into them, and the neighbouring skin and cellular substance may be finely injected, whilst they are filled with blood. From the same cause, we can only partially inject, even with mercury, the fine vessels of the inflamed web of a frog’s foot, if it have been any where diseased. The mercury runs into the trunk at the toes, but only a few are filled in the web, whilst the column presses on more forcibly the blood in the capillaries. The injection is more or less imperfect, according to the coagula- tion of the blood, but we can always fill some. If recovery take place, we find that the pain abates, the swelling and hardness diminish from the circumference toward the centre, but there is often for a long time a central point of induration, which would make it probable that the exciting cause had at first acted most intensely on one spot, from which the disease radiated.36 After all the consideration I have given to the subject, I am disposed to consider it as a general rule, that inflamma- tion originating in the cellular texture, and produced by a cause acting exclusively on it, is in general circumscribed within limits, not very greatly beyond the operation of that cause. When this texture is extensively affected, either the cause has been extensively applied, or the affection is in a great measure, if not entirely secondary, depending on spread- ing and extended disease of another texture, such as the subjacent fascia, or the venous or absorbent system of the limb, or it is connected with the state of the cutaneous nerves, induced either by direct injury, or dependant on the condi- tion of the system. When the cellular substance is extensively inflamed, there is general swelling of the limb, with tension, and considerable, sometimes severe pain, aggravated by very slight pressure. The surface is not necessarily discoloured, but from the distension it is shining or polished. The heat is increased sometimes to 104°. If an incision be made at this time, only blood and serum are discharged, and no diminu- tion of the swelling takes place, for the cells are filled with fibrin and albumen. In the course of time, the surface becomes redder, and sometimes one or more parts become harder, and more prominent than the rest, as if the disease were concentrating, and these end in suppuration. Often the limb which is universally swelled and tense, becomes at one part more elastic, as if matter were contained, but this is by no means a certain evidence of that: softening, with redness of the skin, and more decided feeling of fluctuation, or a mixture of that with elasticity, are better marks. We may perhaps best understand this extensive disease, by attending to some of the circumstances under which it appears. A very frequent cause, seems to be the wound or ligature of a vein, and therefore we would at once say, that it was dependant on inflammation of the vein; but this, though a very frequent attendant, is by no means always met with, and therefore it is not essential: inflammation ol the absorbents is sometimes distinctly seen, but neither is this necessary, and in a great many cases, the absorbent, when37 inflamed, is merely marked by a hard cord, and streak of red. Inflammation of the fascia is often met with, and dissection shows, not merely this inflammation, but great disease fre- quently of the muscles, which not only have(their connecting cellular substance in a state of suppuration, but are themselves highly inflamed, or almost black. In such cases I am disposed to think, that the fascia has been the principal seatof the disease, and that the inflammation has been propagated both out- wardly and inwardly to the subcutaneous texture and muscles ; and in most of the collections of matter that I have seen formed in this disease, their seat has been under the fascia, and recovery has taken place after a free evacuation. It seems a general rule, that effusion takes place from the vessels on both the outer and inner surface of an inflamed sheet, particularly if it be inflamed throughout. If the fascia of the limb be inflamed, we have a fluid effused, containing both O fibrin and albumen, not only into the subcutaneous cellular substance, but also below it, over, and even amongst the muscles. The effusion is not watery like anasarca, nor are the cells so permeable as in oedema. The swelling is there- fore firm, and resisting, or elastic, and from the view I have taken, may exist to a considerable extent, with very little inflammation in the cellular substance itself. Next, I would remark, that it would appear that a mere laceration or prick of some nervous filament in the skin may cause, from com- munication with other nervous ramifications, and the involv- ment of the parts connected with them, extensive disease. This view is supported by observing, that many severe cases of this disease follow a puncture of the fascia of the finger or hand, by a ragged point or thorn. I have known the whole leg swell thus, and continue for weeks under this disease, from a very superficial scratch or other puncture, by a rough point of bone, and in this case, no approach even was made to erysipelas. In many instances, it will be found, when the leg is affected, that the principal seat of the pain and tender- ness is in the vena saphena, but this being accompanied by the saphenus nerve, it is doubtful which of these is the original cause; but in most cases, the vein is not only painful, but also38 indurated. Punctures made with a bone, or scalpel wet with certain animal fluid, do also so act on the nerves of the part, as to produce extreme disorder in the parts to which they are distributed; and in so far as the nerves are concerned, it need scarcely in the present day be added, that certain states of the system will give very powerful predisposition to the disease. These remarks might perhaps be reserved till the causes of inflammation be considered, but they are necessary to be noticed here in support of my opinion, that extensive inflammation of the cellular substance is either dependant on an exterior cause, or connected with disease in other neigh- bouring textures leading it on. Perhaps one of the best illustrations of this which I can give, is phlegmasia dolens, which seems very much connected with the action, or con- dition of the cutaneous nerves of the thigh and leg, and in which the saphena vein is also very often involved. In this, the whole limb is more or less affected, the fascia is tense, the muscles painful, the cellular texture swelled, and filled with fibrin and albumenous fluid, and the corium itself not exempted. I say nothing at present of the constitutional symptoms. The next texture to be considered is the skin itself. I remind the reader that the corium consists of two layers, an inner which is dense, and contains few vessels, and an outer which is cellular, and so full of capillaries, that it has been named the reticular coat: it also is supplied with nerves. The corpus mucosum, as it has been called, lies between this and the epidermis. It is to the reticular or vascular layer, as a seat of inflammation, that we are now to attend. If we apply for a short time a moderate degree of heat, or a sinapism, or turpentine, we produce cutaneous inflammation, marked by redness, and heat, and painful smarting. By pi’essing for a moment on any spot, we force the blood out of the distended capillaries, and make the part pale, but the colour returns the instant the finger is removed. If we continue the excite- ment long, or apply a blister, we not only produce these symptoms, but very soon have the cuticle detached, and albumenous fluid effused below it: there is also slight effusion under the corium; and in many cases, particularly of erysi-39 pelas, some parts are filled with fibrin, so as to form flat masses of induration, particularly when the skin is naturally lax. In some cases there is great effusion of fibrin and albumen into the cellular substance, with very little redness of the surface. This is exemplified in the prepuce, causing phymosis and paraphymosis. It has been called an cedematous inflammation, but the effusion must not, from that term, be considered as anasarcous; no impression is made on the swelling by puncture. When the cuticle, in cutaneous inflam- mation, is removed, the skin below is observed to be red and tumid, and from the exhalents, thin albumenous fluid is discharged. Then a pellicle forms apparently of coagu- lated albumen mixed with fibrin. The discharge becomes sero-purulent, and presently cuticle is formed in place of this soft pellicle. Let us apply the same causes to cellular substance, and we have the effects already described pro- duced; we therefore infer that the difference depends on the texture, not on any peculiarity in the nature of the inflam- mation. If the inflammation be more violent, it penetrates deeper, and not only the corium, but subcutaneous texture is affected. The true skin thickens, becomes softer, more vascular, and also more easily torn. Its areolrn contain no fatty matter, but sometimes are so impregnated with blood, that it seems almost of a different texture: if exposed to air and moisture after death, it becomes sooner decomposed than sound skin. In violent degrees, as for instance, from burns by flame, the corium is in a manner destroyed in its texture, and rendered hard, differing from dried dead skin, only in being thicker. This can hardly indeed be called cutaneous inflammation, for the skin sloughs, and leaves the cellular texture below exposed. To return to the cutaneous inflammation, I observe, that, unless in the slightest degree, the subcutaneous texture so far participates, as to be filled with serous, or albumenous fluid mixed with blood, which gives a general fulness to the part, and sometimes from the stretch- ing of the corium there is considerable tumour and elasticity. 1 he vessels, at least the larger branches, are filled with fluid blood; for, on cutting into the part, or making scarifications, a40 very ^iee discharge takes place, and the texture is observed to be red. Wherever the superficial redness extends, this effusion also extends, and it is contained in the cells of the texture. It is a species of inflammatory oedema, the effusion being dependant on an excited state of the vessels, or in higher degrees, on a slight degree of inflammation being com- municated to the cellular texture, which may suffer in different ways, according to the causes, and the state of the constitution. It may be healthy, and acutely inflamed, in which case there is effusion of fibrin, and harder swelling, with more circum- scribed suppuration; or it may be unhealthy, especially from the state of the nervous system, induced by that of the diges- tive viscera, which may prove both a cause and a modifier of action, and in that case, it may be affected with gangrene, or low inflammation. But it is also quite possible for the sub- cutaneous cellular substance to be so far affected in its action, and in its power, by the state of the skin itself, as to furnish serous effusion with very little actual inflammation; and it is in the same way, capable of being weakened by the state of the skin, and of sinking or dying under a very slight degree of inflammation, considered absolutely. This is particularly the case, when the cutaneous disease has been produced by, or is intimately connected with a disordered state of the alimentary organs. It may also occur when the cutis has been suddenly and violently inflamed, as in a burn. We may have not only sero-purulent fluid effused into the cells, but even mortification or immediate death of the texture under the corium. Inflammation of the cellular substance, producing phleg- mon, causes very soon redness, and sensibility of the surface, such as occurs in a primary inflammation of the surface, and it may also penetrate, so as to cause inflammation of the fascia below. In like manner, inflammation of the cutaneous surface may be communicated to the cellular substance, and thence to the fascia, or from the fascia to those other parts. All of these cases, and to confine our view to the skin, all the various cutaneous inflammations produced by different causes, though in general character similar, yet have each41 some peculiar modification, according to the nature of the cause. The aponeurosis, or fascia covering the muscles, affords a good example of the fibrous texture. When it inflames, it becomes thicker, more easily torn, softer, dull in its colour, with more or fewer red vessels, it loses greatly its fibrous composition, and if the disease go on, presently thin pus is formed on the surface. It has been said, that if it be exposed in an open wound, it becomes covered with vessels, and very red; but my observations and experiments would lead me to doubt if this be a general result. The sui'face becomes covered with blood, then this is exchanged for lymph or fibrin, which forms a thin coat adhering to the surface, and last of all granulations arise. If inflammation take place without exposure, we find that the same softening and increased vascularity, and change of organization take place, but the exudation of lymph is less observable, from its being blended with the super and subjacent parts. From all I have seen, I would say that no considerable inflammation can take place, without affecting both of these parts. The outer surface of the fascia involves the cellular substance, and that very often ultimately, or even very early affects the skin. We have, therefore, in many cases, that swelling and infil- tration of the cellular substance, which has been called diffused inflammation, and also erysipelatous inflammation of the skin. On the other hand, the inner surface of the fascia affects particularly the cellular matter under it, and over, as well as amongst the muscles, and in severe cases, the muscles themselves. On the outside of the fascia pus may form in the cellular substance, but it is particularly apt to do so in the inside, and often not immediately below it, but deeper, under the muscles, or near the bone. In the earlier stage, glairy or albumenous fluid is effused under the fascia. If an incision be made, it flows out like jelly, unless the bleed- ing from the opening prevents it from being seen. This case is often confounded with cutaneous inflammation, or erysipelas, but it is distinct from it. In whatever way the fascia becomes inflamed, we find, that there is very soon a considerable42 degree of tumour, and feeling of elasticity, or almost of fluctuation produced. It is evident, that this cannot be from the contraction of the fascia, or its firmness, for it is really softer, and less fibrous, but it arises from the secondary effects, namely, the cellular effusion, distending the skin, and particularly the swelling of the muscles and cellular sub- stance below, whereby the fascia is stretched. There is always considerable fever, and often great pain accompanied with feeling of weight and tumour, attendant on this inflam- mation, and the system, suffers so much, that often aphthae are formed very copiously on the fauces. The tongue is dry, and foul, or sore, and sometimes delirium takes place. The different states I have been considering, are intimately blended together, and of great importance in surgery. We may have the reticular or vascular sheath of the skin inflamed, and, if severe, effusion of serum takes place on its outer surface. The corium may participate, or be princi- pally affected, and involve the rete, and likewise the subcu- taneous tissue, which may also be originally affected, and interest the muscular fascia, and thence deeper inflammation may take place. The consequences of any or all of these may, according to the severity of the primary evil, or the shading off of the succeeding ones, be effusion either of watery or gelatinous fluid, ending in suppuration, or in gangrene. We, in deep-seated and serious injury, often have vesication of the skin, with very little previous redness. The surgeon ought to attend particularly to the cause, and its mode of operating. The same general character pertains to the various modifi- cations of inflammation of fibrous membrane. For instance, the dura mater exhibits the same change of appearance and structure, and is attended with the same effusion both out- wardly and inwardly ; the former being better seen than in the case of a fascia, from there being no cellular substance between it and the cranium, and we see also the greater tendency to the formation of matter under than abo^ the membrane. The sheaths of tendons exhibit the same appearances.4S They become red, and thick, and softer, and painful, and whilst the cellular substance around participates in the inflammation, the sheath itself becomes much distended with glairy fluid. The bursas follow the same course. In both, it the inflammation be acute, there is very considerable con- stitutional irritation, and sometimes smart fever. The tendons themselves, which are also of a fibrous nature, are inflamed with more difficulty than their sheaths; and in most cases of sprain, it is the latter which cause the most pain, and are the seat of inflammation. Still the tendon may inflame. It naturally possesses very few red vessels, and has little sensibility, but when inflamed it does become some- what redder, and is painful. It does not, however, become primarily very red, but rather loses its shining appearance, and ends in sloughing. I think there is a deception in the aspect. If we expose either the sheath or the tendon itself of an animal, we find that it soon is covered with an exuda- tion arising partly from its own surface, partly from the neighbouring cellular substance. This next becomes red, and the part is closed up or defended, and we see no more of what goes on below, for the granulations proceed as in a common ulcer, and there is strong reason to believe that the tendon itself suffers very little, and has but little to do in this process. It is difficult, even by passing a seton through a tendon, to make it inflame in its whole substance; we never have infiltration of blood into it, and the redness is chiefly evident in a superstratum or vascular envelope. Still the substance does become somewhat redder, and small vessels seem to run to, or rather from the spot where the seton passed. It scarcely swells until it die, and then it forms a kind of macerated tough mass. It never before death becomes so fragile or easily torn as the membranes, and any changes it undergoes in apparent texture during its life, are more the effect of chronic than acute inflammation, but they are much less than in many other textures, or to speak correctly, tendons resist inflammation much more than many other textures. -f he synovial membrane of joints resembles in some respects44 llie sheaths of tendons. It lines the capsule which is fibrous, and more or less strong, but it cannot be traced over the surface of the cartilage, though some believe that it covers that, as well as lines the capsule, and can be more easily separated from the cartilage when that is about to suppurate. It is usual for inflammation to commence in one spot, and then extend quickly over the membrane, which becomes aiboiescent with small red vessels, particularly at its connex- ion with the margin of the bone or joint, and streaks are also seen in its substance, at the same time the quantity of secretion is increased, but it becomes more watery. The mem- brane becomes thicker, softer, more opaque, and redder, whilst the exterior or surrounding cellular substance, and aponeurosis, are more or less involved, and often highly inflamed or injected. As the inflammation proceeds, the red- ness of the inner surface becomes deeper, but it is seldom uni- versal, it rather forms patches ; and no part of the surface of the articular cartilage becomes red, showing that the membrane does not exist there. The surface is indeed sometimes dyed by blood which has been effused, but this is quite accidental, and happens both during life, and after death. If very thin, and the bone below be very vascular, the vessels may shine through it. If the inflammation go on, the membrane thickens more, lymph is effused forming layers, which may extend over the cartilage, flakes ofalbumenous substance are formed in the synovia, and presently the secretion becomes more or less purulent without abrasion of surface. In acute inflammation, the secretion appears for a short time to be suppressed. If the disease make slow progress, the membrane may ulti- mately, particularly in strumous habits, become indurated, somewhat like gristle, or small layers of it can be detached. If more rapid, the skin becomes smooth and shining from distension, then red, and after a lapse of more or less time the articular abscess bursts. If we amputate a limb at the joint, the remains of the synovial membrane inflame, and follow nearly the same course as serous membranes. The periosteum when inflamed becomes thicker, more opaque, and more vascular, and very early effusion takes place,4 5 partly over, but chiefly under it, so that it is detached from the bone to an extent proportioned to the inflammation. The pain is generally deep, severe, but subject to exacerba- tion, and the fluid is sero-purulent. If the periosteum be divided, the bone is felt bare, but not rough, nor does it always exfoliate. If the bone it covers be superficial, there is generally evident effusion into the cellular substance, and redness of the skin. Ligaments swell, soften, and redden somewhat by inflamma- tion, having small branches of vessels running on them, and follow very nearly the same process as tendons. If wounded and exposed they become covered by a lymphatic coat, and then with granulations which become lost or confounded with those from the neighbourhood. As we can scarcely meet with a ligament inflamed by itself, v^e cannot say what degree of pain is produced, but it certainly is considerable. They inflame sknvly, and become destroyed by a kind of suppura- tion. It has been decided that cartilage does not inflame, because it does not become red, otherwise than by being dyed like any other substance by effused blood, or imbued by it. This opinion proceeds on the supposition that redness is essential to inflammation, which dues not appear to be the case. The articular cartilages, may exfoliate in portions; they may also be absorbed or disappear by some other mode, and then in the vacancies thus left, granulations spring up from the bone below. Both of these processes imply the presence and opera- tion of a vital principle inducing the change. If a cartilage become thinner, or be destroyed, it must either be by absorp- tion, or by a kind of grinding down. It would be ridiculous to suppose the latter, and if we admit the former, w'e must acknowledge the previous existence of a diseased action, called by what name we will. There may be different states leading to absorption, but in injuries and inflammation of joints, I am inclined to look on the process as analogous to suppuration, a state in which organic matter is not furnished, but only fluid, and it is not necessary that the fluid should be }ellow or purulent. This state has been called ulceration, but m46 that is a process in which granulations are formed. When this process is going on, the remaining part of the cartilage adheres less firmly to the bone, and when it is absorbed, the bone is found either suppurating or granulating. Destruc- tion of cartilage may go on without the formation of pus, but there is always a secretion of fluid during it. If an extremity be removed at the articulation, as is done at the shoulder and hip, we find, that after a time, the cartilage either dis- appears, and the cavity is filled up with a species of cellular substance, or it may remain, and a kind of cellular cap or cover is formed over it, but not united to it, adhering only at the edges. In this case, no inflammation, or any analogous change, can have taken place. If we remove a leg at the articulation, and leave it exposed, in a frog, for instance, the cartilage remains for a considerable time unchanged in appearance, granulations coming from the circumference of the stump, close over the surface, but the cartilage itself does not granulate, it either exfoliates, or is absorbed through the intervention of a kind of suppuration. If the cervix femoris of a dog be fractured, the extremity of the shaft becomes covered with a cartilaginous layer, and the margin of this adheres to a new formed capsule of a dense cellular nature, which unites it to a smooth part of the os innominatum covered also with cartilage. The head of the bone remaining in the acetabulum, is not even after many years absorbed, but its cartilage, as well as that of the acetabulum is absorbed in a great extent, if not universally, and union by ossific substance takes place. This I had an opportunity of examin- ing more than twelve years after the fracture. In a prepa- ration of the same kind from the human subject, the head of the bone is absorbed level with the acetabulum, and not only universally adherent to its cavity, but so blended with it as to form one mass. The cartilage could not have died, else it must have existed as a foreign body. It must either have suppurated and been absorbed, or converted first into fibro- cartilage, and then into bone; and the inference is, that we are wrong in considering it impossible for articulai caitilages to assume an action analogous to inflammation, merely47 because they do not redden. But still it may be laid down as a rule, that they inflame with difficulty, and perish sooner than they inflame. Fibro-cartilage, and the cartilages of the larynx and ribs inflame more readily. The first by inflammation becomes softer, more spongy, infiltrated with a reddish serum which soon disappears or loses it colour. Vessels may also be discovered sometimes pretty numerously, but always small. They are observed not only on the perichondrium, but also entering into the substance of the cartilage. My experi- ments and observations would lead me to say, that the process is slow, and not very different from that of tendons. Gene- rally in the substance of the part, we have an effusion of dark coloured fluid, and sero-purulent matter. The different pro- portions of cellular, fibrous, and cartilaginous texture entering into the individual composition of the organ, and its com- parative vascularity, must modify the appearances and acute- ness of the inflammation. The cartilages of the larynx die more readily than those of the ribs, or between the vertebrae. The lucid cornea of the eye is of a peculiar texture, totally destitute of red vessels, and may illustrate the inflammation of cartilage. The conjunctiva covering it may become very red, or vessels may pass along the membrane which lines it, but the cornea itself when inflamed never becomes red by injection of its proper substance. Pus may form between its laminae, and ulcers may be seen, with red vessels running toward them along the conjunctiva, but the character of inflam” mation of the cornea is muddiness and opacity. This may be decided by passing a thread through the cornea, as a seton, when not one red vessel can be seen, even with the micro- scope. This is of importance to be attended to, for it shows that opacity, at an early period, is merely the indication of existing inflammation, and is removable by the appropriate means which are to be early adopted, whilst the more chronic and decided alteration of texture is obstinate, if not incur- able. If a red vessel lie ever seen in the cornea itself it belongs to the fine cellular substance which unites the lamina;.48 Serous membranes are by some considered in no other light than as the epidermis, and as possessing no vessels, the exhalents or vascular apparatus being situated in a cellular structure below. It appears to me to be an useless discus- sion, for were there a real pathological distinction, we should find, as in the cutis, vesication produced by inflammation. I therefore speak of the membrane as a simple investure, the more superficial vessels being serous, the deeper red. When inflamed, the membrane loses its shining aspect, and appears somewhat rough, many bloody points appear, and the cellu- lar structure becomes thicker, and serous infiltration takes place: the red vessels become more numerous, but do not at first ramify universally, the redness beginning in clusters. Numerous points of red appear, and at last, the whole is externally red, or nearly so, and many arborescent vessels appear. At the same time the membrane becomes opaque and dull where it is not red. In mild degrees of inflammation, or in the incipient stage, as well as when it is abating, the serous effusion is often increased; and, particularly if the part remain in a chronic state of inflammation, a species of dropsy may be the result. This is often observed in affections of the testicle, the effusion ceasing whenever the state of the testicle is improved. But if the inflammation have been acute and high, the surface is covered with a layer of lymph, and the secretion of serous fluid stops. The vessels are covered, but if the layer be removed, the surface is still seen to be red and spongy, or like velvet. In some cases this layer is absorbed, and the function of the membrane restored. In others, vessels extend from the membrane which covers the organ, to that which lines the cavity, and union takes place; the lymph becomes absorbed, and the two layers of membrane are incorporated. In other cases, a thick intermedium of fibrin, called a false membrane, remains for years. Pus may also in violent inflam- mation be formed. There is generally sharp pain attendant on inflammation of serous membranes. I am of opinion that the inflammation is always higher in the layer which covers the organ, than in that which lines the cavity. If we inject49 a solution of salt into the thorax of a clog, we find the pleura pulmonalis much redder, and more inflamed than the pleura costalis, which is sometimes scarcely red. The inflammation is also much more apt to extend to the organ, than to the parietes. The lungs are always more or less affected, whilst the intercostal muscles remain sound, and this fact ought to be remembered in considering thoracic disease. The testicle also swells greatly if we inject a hydrocele, whilst the tunica vaginalis suffers somewhat less, and the scrotum often is not very red. There may, however, be extension of the inflam- mation outward, and suppuration may form in the cellular substance, but this is rare, unless some of the injection have infiltrated into it. Iiigh degrees of inflammation of serous membranes may end in suppuration, still higher in gangrene. The peritonaeum is a highly important serous membrane, which is very liable to inflammation, particularly that por- tion which covers the abdominal contents, for the linincr of the parietes is not so often inflamed. It is not usual to find the peritonaeum covering the parenchymatous viscera inflamed primarily. It is either affected in consequence of inflamma- tion of the substance of the viscera, or by propagation from the peritonaeum covering other viscus, especially the intestines. Inflammation is marked by very fine arborescent redness, more or less intense, proceeding always from the capillaries being injected with red blood. The small trunks, particularly the veins, are also enlarged, and often the colour is increased at the very first by effusion of blood under the membrane either in the form of streaks, or broader patches or points. The redness may be in different cases and at different periods more distinctly arborescent, or form streaks or points; but in all great degrees of inflammation, it is, from these various modifi- cations, universal, and is farther increased by effusion of bloody serum into the cellular coat under the peritonaeum, which can be more easily detached than formerly. The cellular coat is the chief seat of redness, for the membrane itself is long of becoming vascular. But the principal effusion is from the exhalents into the cavity of the belly, and some — E50 that the swelling of the abdomen is at first from this fluid existing in a state of vapour, and distending it, but this is not proved. The fluid is serous, with flocculi of whitish coloured fibrin; and in intense diseases, the fluid, which in general is of a whey colour, or even somewhat white, is quite red, perhaps dark like venous blood. In many places, exudations of fibrin take place from the surface, and remain adherent to it, forming Avhat has been called false membranes, which either cover the folds of intestines, or are found partially between them. If these be removed, the surface is found to be red and mottled. When the folds are in contact with one another, this exudation is generally very thin, or altogether wanting, the surfaces adhering slightly but directly to one another, and, when unfolded, the redness is generally greatest there. If the general serous effusion be not rapid, and the parietal peritonaeum be inflamed, the intestines may be found adhering to the parietes of the abdomen. We also find, that where the inflammation is very slight, fibrin may be effused, for in many places, if the layer be raised from the intestine, the peritonaeum below it is scarcely, it at all altered. The mucous coat very often retains its pale appearance, and exhibits no mark of inflammation ; but the nfuscular coat is more apt to participate, and cease to act correctly. It either becomes contracted in some part, or extensively has its con- tractility impaired, so that the faeces cannot be propelled. In more chronic cases, tubercles form between the peritoneal and muscular coats, or depositions of fibrin, more or less thick, take place, which diminish the calibre of the canal. The peritonaeum loses its clearness by inflammation, and becomes duller and softer. In some cases, where the disease has been rather tedious, the vascularity of the peritonaeum is less appa- rent, particularly some time after death. It is easily separated or peeled off from a layer of fibrinous effusion between it and the muscular coat, which has in more chronic cases its fibres rendered whiter. The pain is in general sharp, of the burning kind, and liable to great exacerbation like tormina; and when the parietal peritonaeum is involved, the pain, though sometimes dull, and51 \ chiefly felt on motion or pressure, may be sharp like a stitch. Mortification is a frequent termination. Redness ol the intestine from congestion, or from its bein«- imbued with blood, may be mistaken for inflammation, as the deep dark colour produced by engorgement of the veins and extravasation, may pass for gangrene. This is of import- ance, not only in the practice of physic, but in the treatment of hernia. In the latter case, we often find the intestine very dark, and yet not otherwise diseased; and in the former, every one knows that folds of the intestine are found red on dissection, although no abdominal disease existed. The colour is found evidently, in this case, to proceed from mere pene- tiation, and no increased number of vessels is observed on the peritonaeum, or if there be, they are small veins which have become turgid, and the texture is found to be natural. In the other case, where obstruction has existed, as for instance, in impacted or incarcerated hernia, the diagnosis during the operation is more difficult. The colour is never black, but a dark brown red, sometimes a deep purple like port wine ; the vessels, particularly the small veins, are seen to be very nume- rous and ramiform; and when the colour does not proceed from branches, there is infiltration of red serum ; the surface is apparently sound, clear, and smooth, though of a deep colour; the texture, so far as we may with prudence examine it, is rm: on the other hand, when inflammation has gone on to such an extent as to border upon gangrene, the colour is not only blacker, but the organization is more evidently destroyed and there is often distinct effusion of blood in a decomposed state under the peritoneum. The intestine is flaccid, and its external coat is easily detached, or separates, merely, by beino- handled. The substance of the intestine is thickened, and sometimes has even a gorged or hepatized appearance, and a foetid smell is emitted. When the omentum is inflamed, it becomes exceedingly 'ascii ar, and fibrin is deposited between its folds, so that his much thickened, and in hernia several plaits of it adhere and may form a solid tumour. ’ * A still more dangerous inflammation of a serous membrane52 is arachnitis. When this is caused by an external injury, it does not always commence under the spot which has been struck, but sometimes on the opposite side; and although it be in a few instances confined to the vicinity of the injury, yet in general it spreads extensively, and in almost every instance ends in suppuration. It appears earlier or later, according to the violence and complication of the injury; often about the sixth day, but there is great latitude, for it may begin on the second or third day, or not till near the end of the third week, but this is rare. It usually runs its course rapidly; that is, within five or six days, but it may be pro- tracted for a fortnight or longer. The essential symptom appears to be pain, varying, however, in its nature from that of agonizing intensity to the feeling of weight or tightness. Fever invariably attends this, ushered in generally, but not necessarily, by chills. The state of the brain, however, may have a great influence on the pulse, as well as the degree of heat, so that in a few instances, the heart, from the first, beats slowly, and the temperature is not increased. Other symp- toms besides those peculiar to inflammation may arise from the nature of the organ, and the portion of it principally affected. Thus, if the membrane covering the hemisphere be chiefly affected, the patient is delirious, whilst if that covering the base of the encephalon be the seat of disease, somnolency or stupor are more frequent. The former is the most frequent seat in adults, the latter in infants and young people; but in adults the inflammation is apt to spread to the base, but under any circumstances they are not, cceteris paribus, so readily or so early affected with drowsiness as children. The involvement of nerves arising at the base of the skull, and going to important parts, often is productive of complications, which may call off the attention from the primary disease till it be too late ; vomit- ing, purging, cough, or spasm about the larynx, convulsions and palsy, are of this description. It is not, however, neces- sary for me here to detail all the symptoms of this disease, but rather to point out the state of the membrane itseli. But I cannot refrain from noticing, that females are particularly liable to a congestion of the vessels of the pia mater, or a53 slight inflammation of that membrane, or the arachnoid at the base of the skull, or over the medulla spinalis, which is fol- lowed by a very formidable disease which I have described in the Principles of Midwifery, and which I shall in the progress of this work have occasion farther to illustrate. In the healthy state, the arachnoid coat is destitute of red vessels, whilst the pia mater below it is very vascular. But in inflammation this membrane does become red, partly from its serous vessels receiving red blood, though some deny that these run in the proper substance of the membrane, but principally from infil- tration of either blood or red serum into the cellular tissue below it, and which can be washed out. The principal vas- cularity, however, belongs to the pia mater, which is also infiltrated with blood to a greater or less degree, and becomes highly injected, whilst the arachnoid becomes opaque or milky, loses its polish, is thickened and denser. Presently, secretion takes place of muco-purulent fluid into the cellular coat under the arachnoid, and also between it and the dura mater. Phis is sometimes not more viscid than pus, and confined within limits by adhesion between the arachnoid and dura mater; but in general it is smeared over the whole inflamed surface, and is found even in the ventricles. Hence, no ope- ration can in traumatic arachnitis be expected to do «-ood Another termination, particularly in infancy, is the secretion of serum under and over the membrane, and also into the ventricles. Layers of lymph are also sometimes formed. Notwithstanding the intimate connexion between the arach- noid and pia mater and the brain, the substance of that oigan is by no means necessarily involved; and, indeed, it seems to suffer more in function than in organization, for even in intense degrees of inflammation of these membranes, its substance is found apparently sound. The dura mater also often escapes, although a layer of the arachnoid coat be reflected along its inner surface, and be reddened with blood. Mucous membranes are furnished either with a multitude of small glands or follicles, which have excretory orifices, and aie liberally supplied with vessels, which ramify over and in t era. Some membranes, as that of the intestines, have also54- villi composed both of absorbent and exhalent vessels. The follicles and glands yield animal mucus, the villi a thin serous fluid. If we excite moderately a mucous membrane, we increase the secretion, which is scarcely if at all altered. If the excita- tion be greater, the nature of the secretion is altered, and if inflammation be produced, it resembles pus. An illustration of this may be found in the trachea: a slight excitation increases the secretion, but makes it more watery; a greater degree makes it yellow and puriform. A little excitement of the urethra increases the quantity of glairy mucus, whilst a painful degree renders it yellow. The same degree in the rectum or colon will produce a mixture of fibrin. There ought to be a distinction made between irritation and excitation. The former cannot be carried beyond a certain degree with- out changing its nature, and whatever is the result, it is no longer irritation. The latter may exist in every degree com- patible with existence. The former, in mucous membianes, produces an increase of secretion, with little 01 no change; the latter may produce a great change, or stop it altogether. Inflammation of a mucous coat is generally attended with increased, and often with puriform secretion, as, for example, in the urethra; and there is this peculiarity, namely, that purulent fluid is furnished without loss of substance necessai ily preceding the formation; and, in the same degree of inflam- mation, abscess, or abrasion of surface, or loss of substance, is much more rare in mucous coats than in cellulai sub- stance. It has hence justly or unjustly been inferred, that the secretion controlled or mitigated the inflammatory action. Some important questions may be put in limine, namely, What is the state of the secreting apparatus in inflammation ? Are the glands and follicles, and whole substance of the mucous coat, exactly in the same state, that is all alike inflamed; and is the immediate effect of inflammation on the o-lands and follicles, increased and altered secretion, as swell- ing and redness, &c. are in some other textures ? Or are the crypts and glands less prone to inflammation, and merely, m many cases', excited to an increased and altered action, by55 being lodged in an inflamed texture ? The answer will depend much on the strictness of our definition ; but I am much inclined to dispute the doctrine that the secretion depends on inflammation of the apparatus itself. The follicles and glands are in a state of morbid excitation, by the surrounding inflammation, as they should be by the application of oil of turpentine. They are more vascular, as they always must be, in a degree proportioned to their activity, but they long resist the state of actual inflammation. Let us take the coat of the intestine for an example. We find its mucous frame or chorium, as it has been called, inflamed and red> and softened, and thickened, and perhaps extra- vasated. The follicles are highly vascular and more pro- minent, but they yield merely an increased quantity of mucus, just as they would do by the application of pepper, or the irritation of a hard substance; and when the ground- work or layer in which they are lodged is abraded or greatly destroyed, they for a time resist, and remain distinct, perhaps insulated. If the inflammation go higher, the glands not only yield more mucus, but that is changed, and becomes of a purulent nature. 1 hey then do participate in the action, and are not merely excited by the state of the coat in which they are lodged. Possessed of a particular function that may be changed or suspended altogether on the same principle as the peculiar characters of other organs, as for instance muscles, are altered. But even when inflamed, they are not affected to the same degree as the rest of the texture, so that whilst the mucous coat is destroyed, they remain still organized. It is only in the highest degree that they participate in the common rum. If I be right then in this view, there are two states of an inflamed mucous membrane; one in which the follicles are merely excited, and another in which they are inflamed in a mode peculiar to their character. But we also find that this membrane, in a state of inflammation may, and often does exhibit characters belonging to other parts of which it consists. In the intestines, for example, the villi, which are both absorbent and exhalent organs, may yield an increased quantity of serum, or, together with the surface of the mem-56 brane in which the follicles are placed, may yield fibrin so as to form a layer. This does not always depend on the degree of inflammation, for it may be exhibited in a very moderate, though more frequently in a high degree of disease, and is also more apt to take place where the glands or follicles are fewest. Inflammation of the simple mucous membrane is marked by the following characters. It generally begins in different points, which form red patches partly from slight extravasa- tion, partly from arborescent vessels; and these incipient points often retain the greatest intensity, as we see in the urethra, where, after death, parts here and there are almost gangrenous. In those membranes which are naturally pale, the redness is at first slightest, and from first to last it may be trifling; whereas in those which are red in health, it is very early deep, and almost purple. This colour is durable, and remains after death, and even maceration; and is not, as we see in the inside of the cheek, readily removed by pres- sure. There is always an infiltration ot either serum or bloody fluid into the submucous cellular texture, sometimes very trifling, sometimes considerable. In particular cases, the effusion is so great into these cells as to cause much swelling, and give an oedematous character to the inflammation. 1 his is well seen in the larynx and about the glottis, where the tume- faction is sometimes such as to produce suffocation. 1 his infil- tration, together with softening of the cellular tissue, renders the mucous coat more easily separated. The coat itself becomes more sensible, is increased in density, and is slightly rugous, more or less, according to the number of papillae. It loses its transparency, and the follicles increase in size and in vascularity. All these circumstances cause a thickening of the coat, which is often one of the most troublesome effects, as we find in the urethra, and this membrane illustrates farther the history of inflammation ; for we find, that even when the local disease has been very circumscribed, the excitement is more extensive, and the secretion greatly increased, which corroborates the view I have already given of the mode in which inflammation often acts on the mucous follicles, namely, merely as an initant oi57 exciter. We find that at first the secretion is increased, not only in the inflamed portion, but in other parts, and it is generally rendered more fluid and serous. Presently it becomes less for a time, and thicker, and if the inflammation rise higher, it may be suppressed altogether, or become bloody, as we see in the urethra. But if the inflammation have not this effect, we find that soon the discharge becomes more abundant and opaque, or ropy, or quite yellow and purulent in its appearance. The facility and rapidity with which this change takes place depends on the nature of the membrane. It is quickly and easily effected in the urethra, less so in the trachea, and still less so in the intestines, where it very rarely becomes purulent without abrasion, or loss of substance. Ani- mal mucus is, in its purest state, quite clear and transparent, and is not altered in colour or tenacity by being put into hot water, but by nitrate of silver it becomes whitish, or stone coloured. Mixed with nitrous acid, it does not coagulate, but remains, at least for a time, ropy, and becomes of a greenish yel- low colour. The purest seems to be that of the urethra, as oh most other surfaces it is seldom, if ever free from an admix- ture of albumen; for by putting the mucus of the bowel or trachea into boiling water, it becomes white, and more or less flaky. Chemical agentsmay also change its appearance. Nitrate of silver makes the tracheal mucus brownish or ash-coloured. Nitrous acid makes it of a greenish yellow. Hot water makes it turbid. It would be of great improtance to have a con- nected knowledge of the changes, chemical and sensible, which take place in the various modification of secretions. The bladder from various causes may have its mucus increased, and although this, like that of the rectum, may when secreted be glairy, and like jelly, yet by the action of the urine with which it is mixed, it may become ropy, or assume the appearance of a purulent sediment. If we mix a little of the thick fluid obtained from a diseased ovarium with urine, we find that there is soon formed afiocculent sediment, exactly like that met with in many cases of diseased bladder; and sometimes this deposite becomes, if the urine be kept for a short time, at the natural heat, like a magma, apt to be58 mistaken for a purulent deposition. Clear albumen, or white of egg mixed with urine, incorporates with it, and only a very little remains clear at the bottom. The appearance of the urine is not changed ; but if heated, a cloud begins at the top, and increases till the whole become opaque or whey- coloured and turbid. Pure mucus, whether animal or vege- table, is not altered by mixture with the urine. These facts show, that in either acute or chronic inflammation of the mucous coat of the bladder, the discharge is neither pure mucus nor pure albumen, nor a mere increase of the natural secretion, but a modification of it. It is rare to find pus discharged from the surface of the bladder. If the inflammation be considerable, the whole substance of the bladder becomes contracted, thicker, and less tenacious. If, even after long continuance of disease, as, for instance, stone, the inflammation extend to the peritoneal coat, it is apt to spread extensively all at once along that membrane, and the patient dies. It is said that animal mucus, for instance, that in the tears, or nasal secretion, absorbs oxygen from the atmosphere, and becomes yellow; but this can seldom be the cause of yellow secretion met with in the eye, or from the nose in catarrh, the change being effected by the vessels. In many cases of inflammation, the discharge does not assume a puru- lent appearance, but is spread over the surface like a thin layer of coagulated albumen. If any one will pour boiling water on the clear viscid mucus expectorated from the trachea in health, the albumen it contains will be found to become coagulated, making it turbid, white, or ash-coloured, exactly like the exudation which often covers the inflamed membrane. In many cases the fauces are covered with this, and may at any time receive an appearance of a similar nature by having nitrate of silver applied. The secretion becomes first white, and then darker. It is supposed that a false membrane, as it is called, consisting of a layer of lymph or fibrin, may be formed as on serous membranes, but this is doubtful. That such substances are apparently formed in the larynx is noto- rious ; but it is not yet proved that they are exactly the same as those formed on the pleura. On the tonsils we oiten Imd59 exudations of yellow matter like pus, or thick, buff, or ash- coloured secretions appear like sloughs. All of these are mere secretions and modifications of the natural mucus, mixed with more or less fibrin, and the appearance of the exudation, or slough, as it has been called, will vary according to the propor- tion and modification of the mucus, albumen, and fibrin. If we pour nitrous or nitro-muriatic acid on white of egg, we coagu- late it, and make it yellow and curdy, like the effusion on the tonsil. We coagulate it, and make it white, by nitrate of silver. This agent also, if applied to fibrin, or the buffy coat of blood, makes it white, as it would do the surface of a sore. If we attend to the appearance of inflammation of the mucous membrane of the fauces, we fincl that it varies much; sometimes the membrane is of a deep red or damask colour, and no secretion is formed. In this, which is a frequent case, it is probable that the origin of the disease is deeper, and the membrane is affected in a secondary way. In other cases, particularly those arising from infection, there are par- tial effusions of blood, with minute injection of the small vessels, forming irregular patches of deeper colour amongst a diffused redness, and the orifices of the follicles become more distinct. The patches end in streaks, which rapidly become covered with the buff or ash exudation, and if this be removed, the surface below is found to be red, injected, but not abraded. There are'many modifications of this. In some, there are small spots of white coloured albumen, called aphthae ; in others, partial effusion of dense firm yellow fibrin, which adheres intimately for months. In others, more extensive effusions, called sloughs, which may even become decomposed or putrify; but gangrene of the membrane itself is more rare. Whether the effusion be thick or thin, it loosens and begins to separate, when the inflammation subsides. A very fatal modification of albumenous effusion, is,the malignant aphthous throat, which is exceedingly apt to extend into the larynx, and produce fatal croup; but I am not writing a general pathology. As an illustration of inflammation of a simple mucous mem- brane, I may select the trachea and its ramifications. If weGO examine this in a healthy state, we find that a small plexus of vessels runs along the intervals of the rings, and sends off, up and down, branches along the inside ol the membrane, which has a slightly plicated appearance. Nothing like cryptae can be seen. W hen inflammation begins, irregular patches form of ramiform vessels, which increase till the surface appears like a network; but here and there we have a thick congeries. The mucous coat becomes a little thicker and rougher, pulpy, and of a redness more or less deep; it is also presently more easily detached. In the earliest stage, it is covered with a thin layer of mucus little changed. When the inflamma- tion is fully established, the surface is dry, and continues nearly so in many cases for some time, so that if the patient die at this period, the surface has very little, if any mucus on it; or, as happens in cases of wound, it is smeared over with thin pasty looking lymph. Presently, the glands or follicles begin to be excited to secretion, and muco-purulent matter is formed. The secretion naturally is not great; and in slight degrees of inflammation, it is not much increased, and slowly changes to yellow. In higher degrees, particularly if the follicles participate, the secretion is longer of being established, and sometimes there is either extravasation of blood or effusion of fibrin, forming a false membrane, as it is called. At the upper part, this is more apt to take place; and there, we also have often albumenoils or fibrinous effusion, into the submucous cellular substance, producing a great thick- ening, and consequently contraction of the passage. This oedematous appearance is also frequent in the prepuce. In the larvnx it is often fatal, and is known under the name of •/ laryngial oedema, but it is an inflammatory affection. Some- times the epiglottis is involved. The inflammation of this coat is generally, however, confined to itself, or at most does not go beyond the cellular tissue, or it may begin in this tissue, and the membrane itself may only he affected in a secondary way. The proper structure of the trachea is rarely inflamed, though sometimes we find a few red vessels in its substance. In the same way, we find that the ramifications are often highly inflamed, and yet the lungs, through which61 they pass, are not inflamed. The cartilages about the glottis sometimes suffer or die, but this seems to be in a secondary way. Another circumstance to be noticed is, that the inflammation often seizes on different parts of the membrane, the interme- diate portion being sound. We may have the larynx inflamed, the trunk of the trachea sound, and its ramifications below the bifurcation intensely red; or the larynx may be sound, and only the trunk of the trachea inflamed; or in fatal croup, the redness may be greater as we proceed to the lungs, whilst the upper part is only opaque and dull, which indicates the existence of inflammation ; for I have already stated, that the membrane may be inflamed with very trifling- redness, and that soon lost. -The urethra is another mucous organ where we often find inflammation produced in one part after another, with inter- vening portions sound ; and nothing is more common than to find, first, the extz’emity of the urethra inflamed, then the membranous part, then the vas deferens, or epididymis, or testicle. I have little to add to the general history. If we open the urethra of an animal, it is seen first of its natural colour, namely, a pale blush ; then very minute spots like extravasation appear, without arborescence ; then more distinct vessels are seen, and the coat becomes thicker, or swollen and red to a greater or less degree, with patches of deeper colour, and in some instances the surface of these is abraded. The ' lacunas are highly vascular. The sensibility is greatly increased. 1 he secretion is soon augmented and changed; and although the disease be confined within narrow limits, yet a great part of the canal is brought into a state of excitation and preternatural tenderness. If the inflammation go higher, the secretion is stopped ; some blood is discharged, or fibrin is furnished. The submucous tissue in most cases swells, so that the canal is contracted, and in many cases, in those points where the inflammation was greatest, permanent stricture is the consequence. I he last illustration I mean to give is that of the mucous coat of the intestine, which is villous as well as glandular, or o icular. The villi are organs both of absorption and serous 4(32 exhalation, and in inflammation yield often much serous fluid, which dilutes the stools. The follicles are organs of secre- tion lodged in the mucous coat, and opening by small orifices on the surface. If we inject an irritating fluid into the intes- tine, or otherwise inflame it, or examine it after death from accidental inflammation, we find that invariably the coat is redder than it ought to be; for in health it is pale or pearl coloured. This redness is sometimes extensive, if not uni- versal ; in many others it is confined to patches, which may, however, be so large and numerous, as at a distance to make the surface appear altogether red. Usually the redness is greatest on those folds called valvulse conniventes, forming streaks. The colour often appears to be from infiltration or universal tinging of the coat; but on farther examination it will be found, that whilst there may be extravasation of blood, the part is red from clusters of vessels, which are sometimes distinctly and beautifully arborescent. Elsewhere, or in other degrees, points only are seen, so that the surface has a dotted appearance. These are supposed to be minute extravasations at the extremities of the villi, but this is not established, and I rather consider the puncturation to be, at least in many instances, vascular. When the inflammation is extensive and intense, the affected membrane has been compared to painted velvet; but still we may distinguish, in varying degrees, arbo- rescence, puncturation and infiltration, and the veins usually are most distinct. The membrane seems more rugous, or subdi- vided into numerous irregular divisions ol flat, soft, but thick, and almost gelatinous looking folds. With a good glass we observe in these many puckered orifices, the edges of which are rather redder than the rest of the surface, and contribute to increase the general tinge. These lead into little hollows also red. They are the enlarged follicles. Even before they enlarge, they may be distinguished for being filled with mucus. The whole surface is covered with a layer of altered mucus, and on washing this off, the vascularity is better seen, and the colour is sometimes very deep, or almost black. The membrane itself is found to be thickened and mot e pulpy, w ith an aspect like reddish fibrin. It is really softer, for it is more63 easily torn or broken down, and it is also more easily sepa- rated from the next coat. This softening may continue long in chronic inflammation, but in that disease it is not uncom- mon to find induration of different parts of the membrane. This membrane in every inflammation loses its transparency owing to an albumenous, or fibrinous, and sometimes bloody infiltration, and occasionally there is even a degree of oedema. If the inflammation proceed, the coat becomes still more pulpy, almost like mucus itself, and at last is destroyed in patches, leaving the next coat exposed, and a surface, described as ulcerative, but more frequently only suppurating, is pro- duced. Sometimes many follicles outlive the destruction, and are found insulated like granulated erosions. It is rare for the inflammation to be long confined to the villous coat itself. It may spiead acutely to the whole substance, or even to the mesentery sometimes, but more frequently it affects the other coats in a less degree. The peritoneal coat is found either injected with red vessels, or dull and opaque, with little vascularity, according to the degree and duration of the disease. It is always more easily separated if it have participated; and below it we find a layer of fibrin, with serum more or less bloody, whilst to its surface there may be portions of fibrin attached. On separating either the peritoneal or mucous coat, we find under both the depositions I have mentioned, and between them, the muscular coat, which in protracted cases is not red or vascular, but appears like white fine striae, lesembling in miniature the bands in carcinoma. This alter- ation in the muscular fibre takes place also in inflammation of the serous coat; and whilst in some places it leads to con- traction, rendered permanent by effusions of fibrin, becoming afterwards organized, it in many more instances allows the intes- tine to distend by the gas it contains. Some have attributed this to secretion ol air, and attempt to prove it by interrupting an empty portion of bowel, by two ligatures, which nevertheless become distended; but this experiment, which I have not lepeated, is fallacious, as it is impossible to remove entirely the whole contents of the portion. The sensible state of the mem- rane Is productive of great pain in many instances, when the64. ffeces are moved along it; and the muscular coat is also, so long as it retains its power, thrown into spasmodic and irregular action like colic. The sensibility, however, varies in different cases: sometimes it is very small, in other cases, where the pain is little, the coat is so excitable, that stools take place almost immediately afler eating. The secretion is always affected. If we have the bowels in •itated by worms or any other cause, the part is excited, and even becomes redder without inflammation. The mucus is increased in quantity, and mixed with more albumen, for it becomes flaky on being put into hot water. It we have inflammation produced, both the villi exhale more serum, and the follicles furnish more mucus, but it is still more albu- menous, and from one oi' other of these sources, fibiin also is yielded, so that the dejection contains shreds of this substance, or sometimes are entirely made up of these shreds contained in a bloody serous fluid, exactly resembling the appearance of the blood in one stage of our process of washing it for the purpose of obtaining its fibrin. In high degrees of inflam- mation, the secretion is suspended, and the part runs on to gangrene, or in a few cases layers of fibrin are furnished, as in inflammation of serous membranes. In different instances, I believe, purulent secretion may take place without any abra- sion of surface, and sometimes it goes off very rapidly. I have not seen the coat infiltrated with pus which some have described, and believe they have mistaken serum and fibrin for pus. There may, without inflammation, be a deep red ormodena colour of this coat from congestion, particularly if accom- panied with irritation. We see this in an inverted intestine, in some cases of artificial anus. The surface becomes less villous, harder, and of a purple or dark colour, from the dis- tension of veins, and partly from bloody infiltration. It does not consist with my object to trace the other changes of the mucous membranes, such as attenuation, softening, diseased follicles, &c. The lung is another important texture, and its inflamma- tion often demands the attention of the surgeon. It we open65 the thorax of a dog, and inject a little solution of salt, the lung becomes readily inflamed, whilst the pleura costalis is less, if at all affected. Next day, we may see the early stage of inflammation, which is most apt to take place in the lower lobe of the lung. We shall find part of the lung brown, or mottled, which appears to be an early mark of inflammation; part is still pale, and yet this has spots of extravasation under the pleura; part is reddish in its ground, with many arbo- rescent vessels spread over it, and every where the pleura covering the parts affected has an infiltrated appearance. 1 he substance of the lung is engorged with blood, and where this is greatest, and the redness deepest, there is generally a slight coating of thin bloody coagulum, and the pleura has a rough aspect, and dotted or papillary appearance. On cutting into the lung in this stage, we find that its cellular substance is infiltrated with blood; but the air cells are per- meable, so that the lung has a crepitating feel. If cut, bloody frothy fluid runs out, and by squeezing, we can restore it nearly to its natural state in point of consistence, though some extravasated blood remain, and arborescent vessels continue on the pleura. It is not more easily torn. A little bloody fluid is usually found in the thorax. In a more decided degree of inflammation, the lung becomes less permeable to air, and consequently has less crepitation. It becomes softer, and more easily broken or torn ; the fluid which runs out when cut is less frothy, and not so abundant. Then, it becomes still more solid, sinks in water, contains little or no air, and is converted into a granulated mass, best seen by tearing, for it is easily torn, and readily reduced to pulp by pressure. When cut, it does not collapse, and less fluid runs out. This has been called red hepatization of the lung, and is uniformly met with in severe degrees, and in this case the bronchial surface always participates in the inflammation. The lung becoming more infiltrated, seems in some cases to retain nearly the volume it ought to have in inspiration, so that the con- traction of the thorax in expiration is curbed; but this extreme degree is not common. The greater solidity adds sometimes more than one half to its weight, or in a few cases FGG the weight is nearly double. In a still more advanced stage, called gray hepatization, the human lung is still more dense and impervious to air, and its substance assumes a gray or ash colour, is soft and readily broken, and contains dif- fused in it a kind of pus, whilst the bronchiae often contain a reddish mucosity, and in some cases the patient expecto- rates a bloody mucus, of the colour of port wine. This mucus, or muco-purulent matter, is often found on the bronchial surface beyond the focus of inflammation, whilst thin pus is infiltrated into the substance, or poured into the cells, which sometimes become dilated. Pus may also be contained in small abscesses formed in the substance of the lung, but it is extremely rare to find a large abscess in the lung in consequence of acute inflammation. Sometimes con- siderable collections of matter are met with between the laminae of the pleura, which adhere around the deposition, or extensive depositions may take place between the pleura pulmonalis and costalis, constituting empyema, which may burst into the ramifications of the trachea; or the intercostal muscles are involved, and between two ribs an elastic fulness is perceived, whilst the skin over it soon becomes cedematous, and if an opening be not made, it next becomes red and points, and at length breaks. In other cases, the patient dies before either of these terminations take place. Empyema is not a common termination of pneumonia, and is oftener met with as a consequence of mechanical injury, than of cold, See. When it is extensive, the affected side becomes fuller, and remains more permanently in the position of inspiration. When the matter is evacuated, the lung, being seldom dilat- able, remains more or less collapsed, whilst the side of the thorax falls in to accommodate itself to the change; and thus the individual ribs are found below the line or level of the corresponding ones on the opposite side. Part of the interven- ing space between the lungs and thorax is at length filled, as Baron Larrey observes, with a spongy cellular looking sub- stance. Effusion of serous fluid or of fibrin, are the most frequent consequences of severe inflammation of the pleura; but purulent fluid may also be secreted, and form empyema,67 without any communication with the substance of the lungs. In surgical practice, the part of the lung most inflamed depends on the nature of the accident; but it appears estab- lished, that when inflammation arises from cold or similar causes, the right lung is oftener affected than the left; and the lower lobe, or portion of the viscus, oftener than the upper. The pain attendant on this inflammation is sometimes dull, sometimes sharp, which has been supposed to mark disease of the substance of the lung, or of the pleura; but even when the substance of the lung is the chief seat, the pleura does not escape, and therefore it is very difficult to say what sensation is proper to the mere affection of the parenchymatous substance. In pleurisy, the pain is more fixed, or runs in one direction, whereas in peripneumony it is more flitting; and even on the opposite side pain is sometimes felt, for the lung on that side seems to suffer by having more blood sent to it. The cells often con- tain reddish frothy mucus. In both cases, the pain is gene- tallv greatest in a recumbent posture. There is not of neces- sity a cough in pleurisy, though it may, and often does attend it; but there is no peripneumony without cough. There is also more dyspnoea, and greater flushing or lividity of counte- nance in the latter. I do not notice at present the constitu- tional effects. The effect of inflammation on the liver is as well seen in the frog, as in any other animal, for its liver is in health of the same colour with that of man. The bile in the gall-blad- der is of a sea-green colour, but it gives the bladder a deep blue colour. The dark green faeces in the rectum also give that gut a similar colour. By exposure of the liver, it soon becomes paler, and then of a greenish olive, or sometimes of a light brown colour; next, the vessels on the surface become more distinct and numerous, and then patches of red are scattered over it till the whole becomes inflamed. If we apply turpentine or solution of salt, the part is first rendered paler, duller, and soon assumes in both cases a redder appearance, as if from numerous extravasations under the surface. Weak spiiit of ammonia makes the spot from the first red, or at least the previous paleness is only momentary. The redness08 sp1 cads soon over the lobe, which is covered with spots of extra- vasation, with minute vessels in these, and distinct and larger vessels elsewhere. I he whole has a mottled appearance. It is almost universally red, but more so in some places than in others, and in a few spots we see still the olive colour. If the substance be cut, it bleeds freely. When the inflamma- tion goes on, it involves the parenchyma more or less, whilst the surface becomes covered with a thin coat of fibrin. A thread passed through the lobe produces increased redness and inflammation in its course, but not much beyond it. If solution of salt be applied to the liver of a rabbit, it makes it at first paler, but not olive; part assumes an appearance of fibrin, but soon the whole becomes redder and mottled, and, indeed, with a good glass, it has naturally a kind of reticu- lated appearance on the surface, from vessels which, in the preliminary stage of inflammation, assume, from the irregular diffusion of the blood, a punctuated appearance; but by exposing a thin superficial slice to the microscope, we can be satisfied of a continuity, and that the spots are not from extra- vasation. This also exists, but in large patches. If the liver be touched with a hot wire, a grayish eschar is formed on the spot, and there is very little redness round it, till the surface become so by exposure. In the human subject, inflamma- tion seems to begin oftener in the substance than on the sur- face of the liver, and extends in general slowly to the surface, which is found of a bright red, or reddish brown colour, partly from arborescence, partly from multiplied ecchymoses, some of which are almost black. On a greater or less extent, lymphatic exudation is met with ; and on removing this, the surface below is rough and red, or punctuated; but in many cases, the peritoneal coat suffers very little, and no fibrin is effused. Acute inflammation is supposed to begin most fre- quently near the surface, but it is not proved that it com- mences in the peritoneal coat. Chronic always begins on the substance of the liver, but the latter may be, and often is, acutely affected. In this case, on making a section of the lobe, we find it gorged with blood, much swelled, and softer, or more friable, and easily torn. It is of a deep colour, with69 many red grains, and the orifices of numerous vessels are observed. II the inflammation have been high, the texture is very soft, marbled, and not unlike the spleen. When the inflammation has scarcely begun, the parenchyma is both softer and paler than usual, like the olive colour exhibited by the surface previous to inflammation. The secretion is always affected ; a brownish yellow viscid bile, is found in the biliary ducts of the inflamed part, whilst those of the neighbouring poition are more than usually full, and the fluid is thin and yellow. At a more advanced stage, the ducts in the inflamed part have rather a bloody serum in them than bile, and those of the other parts have a bile less bitter than it ought to be. As the liver is never all at once universally inflamed, and as its varying and different states must affect the quantity and nature of the secretion, we cannot expect to find the effects to be the same in every instance. But in most cases, the quantity of secretion is early increased, and vomiting of green bile is not a rare symptom at first. The colour renders it probable that it is chiefly cystic bile; but the quantity indi- cates a previous increased secretion. The gall-bladder, when inflamed by exposure, or by participating, as it often does, in the disease of the liver, becomes finely arborescent with red vessels. The duct often is inflamed and thickened. The hepatic, and even the common duct, may also be diseased. Either from the inflammation, and perhaps spasm of the ducts, or from pressure by the enlarged liver on some part of the excretory apparatus, jaundice is not an uncommon attendant on hepa- titis. I he duodenum also participates either more directly, or through the medium of the duct, and so a protracted and fiital disease of that gut may succeed a very moderate inflam- mation of the liver. I need scarcely say that other viscera in the vicinity may suffer from juxta-position, and amongst t ie rest, the colon, causing an obstinate dysenteric affec- tion. Hepatitis is marked by pain more or less acute in the legion of the liver. The connexions of this viscus are so extensive, that the direction and extent of the pain, as well aS °. Ue symPathefic and indirect symptoms, such as vomit- ing, nccup, See. must vary according to the principal seat of \?'0 disease ; and in some cases, where the convex or upper surface is affected, the symptoms bear a strong resemblance to pneu- monia. It is little better than speculation to talk of the sharper pain marking inflammation of the surface, and the more obtuse, that of the substance of the liver. The pain of the shoulder is easily explained by the connexion of the acro- mial and phrenic nerves. This inflammation may terminate in resolution, or in chronic alteration of structure, or in abscess, which is marked by the usual attendants in the forma- tion of matter, which I am not to notice at present. This may form in any part of the liver, and the external marks are more or less distinct, according to the part. The abscess may either be large and solitary, or there may be many small abscesses. The walls of the cavity are lined with a layer of fibrin, which varies much both in its appearance and consist- ence. The parenchymatous substance around is also found in different conditions; sometimes of a red brown colour, and vas- cular ; in others, particularly if the lining be thin and indis- tinct, it is softish, and also red and flocculent. The exterior surface of the viscus, where the abscess points, is yellow or pale when it is about to burst, and red elsewhere. It may burst into the lungs, or colon, duodenum, or stomach, or into the general cavity of the abdomen, and be next discharged by the umbili- cus, if the pus be not drawn off by tapping. I have never seen this termination except in children, all of whom have recovered. The patient whose case I published more than twenty years ago in the Memoirs of the Medical Society, has ever since enjoyed perfect health. It may also point externally; the skin becomes first cedematous, and the surface prominent, and then red and thin. So far as my individual experience o-oes, I consider this as the most unfavourable of all the ter- minations, and unfortunately it is the one which comes most directly under the superintendence of the surgeon. The testicle when inflamed swells, and often very rapidly. Its coat does not seem to distend so readily, and the tumour is tense and elastic, but not hard, if the tenderness will per- mit of pressure. The epididymis, however, is both hard and painful. The skin of the scrotum is of a dull red colour, and71 rijgous. The heat is much increased, the pain generally dull, but depressing and sickening. The back is pained, and the motion of wind along the bowel on the iliac region is produc- tive of pain. When resolution takes place, the body of the testicle first subsides in size, the tumour abates, so that a feel- ing of softness is substituted for firm elasticity, and it might even be supposed that suppuration was taking place. Next, the epididymis becomes smaller and softer, and the skin paler and more relaxed, whilst the pain, &c. abate. It is not pro- bable that adhesion to the tunica vaginalis is a frequent con- sequence, for hydrocele may afterwards take place, though seldom as an immediate consequence of acute inflammation. Suppuiation also is comparatively rare; and the most fre- quent termination, next to resolution, is chronic inflammation, marked by indolent swelling, and leading to hydrocele. If we inflame the testicle of a rabbit, we find at first that it becomes tedder in its substance, without any extravasation ; although the internal vascularity be decidedly increased, the colour is not dependant apparently on that, for even a good glass cannot establish this. I he section appears more gela- tinous or homogenous than in the natural state. The epi- didymis is firmer, and more like fibrin in its colour on come points of the surface, and it is more covered with vessels than the testicle. The tunica vaginalis has still more vessels. I have never examined the human testicle at this early stao-e. If inflammation proceed, more swelling and interstitial effu- sion take place, with increased vascularity, and the texture becomes more glossy and fibrinous, or gelatinous, in its appear- ance. In a still higher degree, it becomes more spongy look- ing, and softer, infiltrated more with bloody serum, and vas- cular. The epididymis is covered with vessels, and swollen. Its internal substance is still white, and the vas deferens often contains a pulpy, white or milky-looking, fluid, and both are very vascular on the outside. If the testicle have been bruised, firm coagulated blood is found effused into a cavity, and around this there is bloody infiltration. In these experi- ments, the chief swelling existed exterior to the tunica vagi- nalis, which was always highly injected.The female breast is made up of many lobules, which are formed by the conglomeration of grains not larger than small shot. They are of a red colour when injected, and consist of numerous vessels, ramifying and interlacing in a dense sub- stance, and terminating in the fine commencement of the lacti- ferous ducts, which have a mucous coat. The lobes are firm, dense, and, from the quantity of uniting substance, have rather a whitish appearance, if not injected, or after being washed. The chemical properties have been examined by Dr. Thom- son, who found them to be much the same with those of the corium. The lobes are united by fatty cellular substance in greater or less quantity, and the whole is covered with a firm expansion of fascia. A thin layer of fascia, and some fatty cellular substance, are also interposed between the gland and the pectoral muscles. Now, from this composition, we may readily see that the breast may have either its cellular substance or its glands, or both, inflamed. The great majority of mammary inflammations begin during lactation, and may arise from obstruction to the discharge of the secretion. It is rare for the whole breast to be inflamed, for in general only one or more lobes are affected; but the cellular substance inflames more extensively, and afterwards a greater number of lobules may be involved. The cellular inflammation is similar in its character to phlegmon. The gland is found enlarged and red, but apparently rather from distension of its uniting, than of its proper substance. The lactiferous ducts are distended, and the size of the vessels, particularly of the veins, increased. I have made no experiments on ani- mals giving suck, but those who have, assert, that the cellular substance is often infiltrated with milk, without any rupture of the ducts; but this I very much doubt. When the swell- ing is great, the fascia is stretched, and the tumour acquires a tense elastic feel, and the cutaneous veins enlarge much. When the distension is less, then hardness at the most diseased part is very distinct. 1 his inflammation may teimi- nate in resolution, suppuration, or induration. I believe, that when a lobe is the principal seat of disease, resolution may, oftener than in other cases, be hoped for, because the7 3 symptoms arise sometimes as much from engorgement as' actual inflammation. But most acute inflammations, parti- cularly when the cellular medium is affected, end in suppura- tion. The abscess breaks sooner or later, according to its depth, and the resistance of the fascia; and in some cases it is very tedious. In a few instances, the pus is discharged at the nipple by the lactiferous ducts. If the glandular portion be much inflamed, and the cellular substance extensively sup- purated, one or more lobules die, and are discharged like ash-coloured sloughs. But if the suppuration be rather in the glandular part, and much fibrin have been effused into that and around it, an induration remains, long after the abscess bursts or is opened. Sinuses more or less in number, and varying in their course, are formed; and if these be not laid open early, the cure is either very tedious, or the patient sinks under hectic or remittent fever. Chronic induration often terminates in malignant disease. The lymphatic glands are frequently inflamed, particularly from irritation ol an absorbent, or from certain modifications of suppuration. I have examined, but not often, the appear- ance of these glands when inflamed. They are always swelled more or less, are either hard or elastic; and when cut into, if not injected, have a grayish or buff colour, a smooth section or surface, studded with reddish or brown spots, being the orifices of divided vessels. The general appearance is that of a mixture of cellular substance and gelatinous fibrin, with scattered extravasation of blood. If the gland be finely injected, or the blood have been retained, it is of a red colour throughout. The substance is not easily torn, but may be more readily bruised or destroyed by rubbing. If, however, the inflammation have been high; and lasted longer, the sub- stance is softer, somewhat spongy, more easily torn, and of a redder colour, sometimes pretty deep. When cleared of blood by maceration, the groundwork is yellowish. If sup- puration take place, it is never at first in one central cavity, but seems to begin in different parts or cells, which are first filled with bloody serum, and an incision, though it discharge this, makes no impression on the general size; but a con-74 tinued discharge of lymph sometimes is a consequence. Then red glairy fluid is formed, and last of all, pus. One little cavity takes the pre-eminence even from the first, and ulti- mately embraces all the rest. It is in the front that the progress is greatest. It extends laterally, and last of all inward, but often it breaks before the whole has suppurated. The internal surface, like other abscesses, is lined, with fibrin- ous effusion. The skin does not very early participate in the inflammation, and rarely, if ever, till suppuration have con- siderably advanced, which may not be for a fortnight. In simple inflammation, the matter is pus of a yellow or buff colour. There is at first little pain in the gland, but this increases as the inflammation advances to suppuration. Indu- ration is not an uncommon termination, particularly in stru- mous habits. The lymphatics are very thin, and with difficulty disco- vered in the cellular substance; but when inflamed, thev often, above all other vessels, become most distinct. For not only are they surrounded then with a coat of fibrin, effused into the cellular substance beyond all proportion to their natural size, but also, very early, the skin partakes of inflam- mation, and their course is marked by a continued and pretty broad streak of a pale red colour. It is not rare to find more extensive deposition around some portion of the canal than the rest, and there the inflammation is highest; and not only a chain of tumours or indurations, but also of abscesses, may be thus formed. These portions differ in nothing from phleg- mon already described. I can say nothing of the state of the coats themselves, though doubtless they become vascular. But in the larger vessels, the thoracic duct, it has been ascer- tained that both the external and internal coat become very red and arborescent. The internal assumes a pulpy appear- ance, and, finally, pus is formed. The external becomes thicker, infiltrated, and more vascular. If a lymphatic be divided, lymph is often copiously effused for some time. I shall have occasion hereafter to notice inflammation of the blood-vessels, and therefore, for the present, only remark, that as vasa vasorum cannot be traced deeper than the middle75 coat of the artery, we cannot expect to find the internal coat arborescent in inflammation. Even when the artery has been surrounded with a ligature, or solution of salt applied to it, and the parts in which it is imbedded, I have found the inside of the vessels colourless, and no vessel discernible with the microscope. If, however, the whole texture have been inflamed, this has a red colour, partly from infiltration of bloody fluid, partly from the highly injected state of the vessels on its outer surface, which are well seen, as long as the inner coat is thin. It is also increased by being stained with blood, or clot con- tained in the canal. The coat soon loses its polish, becomes somewhat villous, and is more or less thickened, and very early is covered with a lymphatic exudation, or the whole canal is filled with it. On removing this, the surface is found to be red, but the vessels are really behind the coat. In general, it is more easily separable from the middle coat than in health. The prominent characters of inflammation of this coat are thickening, softening, redness, and lymphatic exuda- tion. The middle coat likewise becomes thicker, softer, more cellular, and of a reddish yellow colour. The outer coat has the greatest number of vessels, is very red, and consider- ably swelled. The whole arterial substance is softer, more easily torn, and does not bear the ligature. The inflamma- tion is sometimes very limited; in other cases, it extends along the vessel either upward or downward, and is often best recognized by the state of the internal coat; and, indeed, there is much less tendency in the inflammation to extend outwardly, and involve the surrounding substance, than in veins. In slight cases, resolution seems to take place with- out obliteration of the canal. In more severe degrees a thick coating of fibrin and albumen is thrown out, and the canal is often quite and permanently closed, or the crimson coloured surface may be spotted with patches of lymph. In worse cases, pus is secreted, and is infiltrated into the texture of the artery, or confined in little abscesses around the vessel, or it may be secreted from the inner surface, and be lodged in the canal, filling it to a considerable extent. This retention may take place from the artery losing its elasticity, and ceasing to76 be a propelling canal, or from the tube beyond the suppura- tion becoming obliterated. In inferior degrees, the arterv seems to pulsate more strongly, but in these, I believe that will be found to depend on strong action of the heart, together with a weakened and diseased condition of the coats of the vessels. In several instances, suppuration is very limited, parti- cularly il excited by a ligature. 1 he coats soon give way, and the vessel is said to be opened by ulceration, but this is an im- proper term. Sometimes, but very rarely, granulations are met with on the inner coat, or at least the inner surface of the artery, especially if small patches of suppuration have been confined to it. Such are correctly called cases of ulceration. The outer or cellular coat also granulates. If either a small portion of the artery be insulated, or if it be slit up after a ligature have been applied, we find that the surface in both cases is seen covered with a coat of fibrin, such as I have described when tendons are exposed. Then suppuration and granulation takes place. There is generally, but not always, deep-seated pain in the course of the artery like rheumatism; but in many instances, the constitutional fever constitutes the prominent character. Veins are much more frequently inflamed than arteries. The internal coat is always red, but it is more inclining to violet than in arteries. This colour is often produced with- out inflammation, as well as along with it, by mere staining; but in the latter case, there is always arborescence of the coat, or rather under it, unless it be so much thickened as to hide it. The coat becomes thickened, dull, rough, and more easily detached, and then the vascularity below is evident. The middle coat becomes thicker, redder, more easily torn, and yet so much denser, that it retains, like an artery, its cylindrical aperture when cut across. The outer coat becomes much thickened and injected, and also involves the surrounding cellular substance, so that it feels under the skin like a solid cord, very tender or painful to the touch. If not pressed, there is seldom acute pain in this part of the vein ; but some- times there are sharp and continued pains in the whole limb. The cellular substance, to a considerable distance, suffers,77 and very often the whole subcutaneous texture swells and inflames, and even the skin participates, so that the limb is prodigiously swelled; extensive suppuration takes place, and the subcutaneous texture sometimes perishes in considerable quantity, or the skin partakes of the destruction. But these effects, probably, in many cases arise from the effect on the nerves which accompany the vein, or are connected with it as much as from the venous inflammation itself. Like an inflamed artery, the canal ceases to perform its function of transmission with perfection, so that it sometimes becomes distended, or the blood passes slowly along it, and layers are formed, somewhat, as in aneurism; a circumstance rarely, if ever met with in inflammation of arteries. The canal may thus be obliterated; and partly in consequence of this, partly as a more direct effect of disease of the cellular sub- stance, oedema may be extensively produced in the limb. The coating of fibrin, however, which is met with on the sur- face is much more frequently an exudation consequent to inflammation. The inflammation may slowly subside, the baldness of the cord abate, and the calibre of the tube be pre- served, but very often the canal is obliterated, and the vein converted into a solid cord. I have been consulted respect- ing wounds of the artery made through the vein in venesec- tion, when, in consequence of firm pressure, this state of the vein has been produced, and a perfect cure obtained without the production of aneurismal varix. If resolution do not take place, suppuration occurs with or without a layer of fibrin. The pus may be contained in the substance of the thickened vein, or in the cellular substance around it, or it may be poured into the cavity of the vein, and found there more or less mixed with blood or serum, and may be found even in the middle of a coagulum, or the cavity may be filled with a sanious, or grayish broken down clot. Sometimes there are collections of pus at different parts of the vein, with coagula, or obliteration, intervening; and some of these collections^may burst externally, though most of such as do so are formed exterior to the venous canal. The lymphatic glands often swell, when this suppuration exists. 478 Inflammation of the vein may spread upward or downward ; and although it sometimes makes a continuous progress, yet very often there are considerable intervening portions which escape. The course is not always confined, even when it goes toward the heart, to that direction, for it may also strike ofl', as, for instance, from the veins of the arm to the jugular vein, and the sinuses of the brain may participate, or the inflam- mation may even begin there. In the majority of fatal cases, the heart and lungs participate, and often the most pain, even if there be much swelling of the extremity, is felt in the chest. In the rabbit, I have seen the pericardium very vascular, and containing serum, whilst the lungs were partially inflamed. The diaphragm also participated. The inflammation begins in the human subject soon after the application of the cause; in the greatest number of cases, within twenty-four hours, or on the second day, rarely beyond the sixth, and that late commencement is not common. Its course is seldom run to a fatal termination in less than a week; sometimes it is pro- tracted for near a fortnight, or it may even continue, although ultimately fatal, for six or seven weeks. A nerve consists of many divisions of medullary substance, each enclosed in a very fine sheath, connected with a general covering of the cord, which, with its subordinate canals, has been called neurilemma. This is very vascular ; and when the nerve is inflamed, the membrane may be seen to be finely injected, and the whole cord becomes of a bright red colour. This redness is not only produced by vessels, but also by infil- tration of bloody serum, or sometimes blood itself, between the various subdivisions : and thus the whole cord is thickened and swelled, partly by this, and sometimes by fibrin, and if a section be made, it is uniformly red or stained. If the inflamma- tion proceed, we find that the texture is altered. The medulla becomes softer or more fluid; the neurilemma is softer and thoroughly injected, and the whole substance is more easily torn. The inflammation is greatest at the part most acted on, and less as we recede, so that in one specimen we may see the characters of different degrees of inflammation. It is not easy, without considerable violence, to produce decided inflam-79 mation. A little solution of salt rapidly produces inflam- mation of a serous membrane, but the nerve and its coat resists it much longer; but when once it takes effect, we find the coat of the nerve uniformly red, and on cutting it, the nervous substance comes out in a pulpy or fluid state. It is also rare to meet with pus in the substance of the nerve, though one or two examples are recorded, but it is not uncommon to find it in the cellular substance around it. There is always much pain attendant on this inflammation, and it often shoots along the course of the nerve. It is also not uncommon to find the parts to which the branches go, swelled and painful, if not actually inflamed. This is well seen in the case of the saphenus nerve, and in many other instances, as I shall avail myself of in speaking of the causes of inflammation. The brain receives its blood-vessels from those of the pia mater. They are numerous in the cortical, less so in the medullary substance. When inflamed, this circumstance should affect the tinge, but the natural colour of the part must also have an influence. The cineritious portion ought to be deeper, and really is more crimson than the medullary, which is lighter, or more vermilion. In the commencement, the substance actually the seat of inflammation has the mixed appearance of red jelly along with that of brain, whilst the portion in the immediate vicinity is little altered, except in having its vessels more numerous and larger, and these can be traced distinctly into the altered substance. In this seat of inflammation, we soon find striae, and presently the altered cerebral substance becomes softer, but preserving its red colour, the shade, however, varying. The organization is quite destroyed, and sometimes it is semifluid, with vessels still entire, like red threads ramifying through it; and perhaps aiound this, but sometimes irregularly embraced within its limits, we have reddish and extravasated texture, of a con- sistence denser than natural; but it is doubtful if this firm- ness be not altogether a secondary state, namely, the conse- quence of coagulation of a mixture of fibrin and albumen aftei death. This uniform softening, or mixture of that statewith more dense fibrin, is often confined to irregular portions, and rarely exists to a great extent. I think if it extend con- siderably laterally, it does not go deep. It has technically been called the red softening, to distinguish it from the gray, which is a sero-purulent infiltration, existing as a prelude to abscess; but it does not, in such cases as I have examined, as yet contain pus, but has more an appearance of lymph. Lallemand has particularly attended to the softening, which he considers as a sequence of inflammation produced by extra- vasation. Congestion leads to rupture, and the effused blood, he imagines, excites to inflammation, and this in its turn causes softening; in the neighbourhood. He remarks, that at o O 7 least one half of the cases of softening are met with in the corpora striata and thalami optici. It is scarcely possible to have inflammation of the substance of the brain without co-existent, if not previous disease of the pia mater, and therefore we cannot determine whether the symptoms of the two affections be different. In both, pain of the head is a prominent local effect. There may be for a day or two shooting pains in the head, and then severe pain fixed in the region specially affected; but I fear it is little better than a speculation to describe the modification of sensation in the two. Fever is also an effect, and other consequences result from the progress of the disease. It has been said, though I think without satisfactory evidence, that softening of the brain is productive of contraction of the flexor muscles. Even considerable abscess may exist for a considerable time, especially in the anterior lobes, without stupor or loss of muscular power, but ultimately both of these effects take place. Remote disease may be produced by the state of the brain. Not merely the different muscles, but in an inferior degree even the fasciculi, and to a still less extent the individual fibres, are connected to one another by cellular substance, in which the vessels pass. Vi e might therefore expect to find a muscle readily inflame, and follow the couise of phlegmon. But this is by no means the case. Extensive inflammation of the muscle, either by irritants or setons passed thiough it,81 is not rapidly produced, whilst the skin, particularly if thin, as in the frog, becomes speedily and highly injected. If the excitement be strong, and continued, the muscle becomes red in the extent to which it is inflamed. The change of colour is well seen in the thigh of a rabbit, whose muscles are very pale. If we expose part of these, and apply lint wet with solution of salt, we find, on examining them two days after- wards, that they have, to a greater or less depth, acquired as deep a hue as the muscles of a sheep. We can see no general extravasation of blood, nor can we even by a good glass determine the colour to arise from multiplicity of vessels. The whole texture and each fibre seems to be minutely imbued with red blood. Here and there we see striae, but when the muscle is sliced thin, and examined by the micro- scope, we find, that although these in different places are really extravasations, yet in others we can ascertain that they are formed by insulated portions of blood in dilated vessels. A greater number of vessels are seen on the surface, and dis- covered in the substance of the muscle, but its depth of colour cannot be traced by the eye, aided by a microscope, to depend on these. The diaphragm of a rabbit being very thin, may be employed to exhibit the appearance of inflammation; but here we find, in addition, many superficial and considerable vessels running in the peritoneal coat and pleura, whilst by the glass we see opaque parallel lines quite uninjected, which are the tendinous portions. If inflammation of any muscle proceed, and become both high and universal in the muscle, it is rendered altogether redder, more vascular, and its fibres more separated by albumenous and fibrinous fluid, or blood itself, whilst the fibres are altered, rendered softer, and more easily torn, less contractile, and more like gelatinous fibrin, or injected cellular substance; and then, if mortification do not take place, the disease proceeds to suppuration, not around the muscle, which is common in cellular inflammation, but within it, either in small and scattered abscesses, or when more exten- sive and rapid, in the form of general infiltration. The fibrinous substance is changed in colour, becoming of a yellowish red tinge, or sometimes, when there has been venous extravasa- GcS2 tion, of a black colour, or like port wine, and as soft as liver. But occasionally, whilst the muscle is rendered redder and softer, little pus is found in its substance, but a curdy white matter around it, and partly in it, like the matter in scro- fulous abscess. This is well seen in the rabbit. In compound fractures, gunshot wounds, contusions, and extensive laceration, or severe burns, &c. we often meet with inflammation of the muscles in all its degrees and modifications. Sometimes they are scarcely inflamed, but detached from one another by suppuration of the connecting cellular substance, and then they are found pale and flabby, with a few vessels ramifying in them. In more decided inflammation ; they are of a deep red or brown, with much infiltration of serum; or of a dirty yellow colour, scarcely more cohesive than the huffy coat of blood, and perhaps with many little collections of pus within them ; or the muscle may be nearly black, apparently from admixture of venous blood, and as soft as liver; and in extensive disease it may he converted into one indistinct flabby putrid mass, such as is seen in dissecting-rooms on removing the skin from a limb which has been long kept. Bones consist of two parts; an external, more or less hard, sometimes apparently altogether solid, and yet containing canals visible by the microscope; and an internal, more or less spongy, or sometimes reticulated, or forming a cylindrical canal, with a few septa. The outer surface is covered with the fibrous and vascular membrane called periosteum, which is attached by cellular filaments. The inner cells or canals are lined also by a vascular membrane, which in some of the bones contains marrow. This membrane not only lines the larger cavities, but is prolonged with minute vessels into the little canals, seen only by the microscope. Bones receive different orders of vessels; one kind enters by those conduits or large canals which are evident in most bones. They are accompanied by corresponding veins, and are distributed on the internal membrane, but have not been traced into the osseous texture itself. Small nerves also accompany the arteries, for the mem- brane is sensible. Some deny, however, this sensibility, whilst Bichat maintained that it was greatest towards the middle orS3 centre of the bone. Another, enters by capillary branches into those pores, which are visible on the surface of the bone, or by somewhat larger ramuli into the more distinct orifices intended for their reception. These terminate in the osseous texture, and not on the internal membrane, and their blood is returned by veins which arise from, and indeed line the little canals, and pass out by pores or orifices distinct from the arteries. The osseous part is not the subject, properly speaking, of inflammation, but is often materially affected by it; for the quantity ol earthy deposite is generally dimi- nished. The immediate seat of its action is in the vascular membrane within or without. It is very difficult to produce inflammation, and nothing more, in our experiments; for if we apply irritants to the periosteum, we render it redder and more vascular, and often it detaches itself from the bone, and this, particularly if it have been also acted on, dies without inflaming. If we act in like manner on the medullary mem- brane, we kill the internal parts; or if we apply to a thin bone, as, for instance, the parietal of a rabbit, strong solution of salt, both layers die within forty-eight hours. Starting with the proposition that the membrane is the seat of the disease, I would proceed to say, that whenever this membrane is highly inflamed, and particularly when it is itself destroyed, the bone, that is the substance taken in the aggregate, is not allowed time to inflame or change. It dies to a greater or less extent. Sometimes a mere film perishes, and is absorbed; sometimes the whole thickness perishes. It is only when the outer or inner membranes are slowly inflamed that the texture lives and comes to be altered and inflamed; and the extent of the disease is proportioned to the extent to which the mem- brane and its prolongations, and the cellular tissue are affected. In such cases of inflammation of the bone, we find that less earthy matter, and more fibrin is secreted ; but the deposition of the former is not altogether suspended. The bone is softer or harder, according to the proportion of soft deposite, and is more or less swelled according to the same rule. But in simple inflammation there is less swelling than one would sup- pose, who judges from chronic or specific thickening of the84 pei iosteum, nodes, See. On the oilier hand, there is some- what more than takes place in those acute cases of perios- titis, or inflammation of the medullary membrane, ending quickly in necrosis of the substance. In chronic diseases, which may throw light on the state of acute inflammation, we often find that the cancelli or medullary part alone is affected. In flat bones, the two laminae are separated by softer, yet firm substance like fibrin, and at last they are absorbed, and this new growth increases greatly, and forms a tumour, one species of which is known by the name of osteo-sarcoma. In acute inflammation, the canals may enlarge, their inner coat is thicker, the oily deposite is diminished, or altogether stopt, its place being supplied with a mixture of cellular matter, fibrin, and bloody serum, giving a bright red gelatinous appearance to the contents of the medullary membrane, which is itself injected, or very vascular. Usually the outer layer, or a film of the bone dies, or is absorbed, and then this red substance is exposed, into which the probe may be pushed for some way. This soft spongy state, whether exposed by destruction of the integuments, or still covered by them, distinctly exists during inflammation; but it is still more evident in that subsequent state which is analogous to suppuration, and which has been called caries, but it is quite different from a mortified or necrotic state of the bone. Part of this process may be seen in ulcers with exposure of the bone. The outer layer often dies, and separates in whole or in portions; and whenever separation takes place, the surface is red, and highly vas- cular below, so that it bleeds on being touched. From the membrane or cellular substance granulations spring out, and become identified with those from the sides or soft parts. But I am passing from pure inflammation to the state of ulceration or granulation, and only notice it to illustrate the previous state of inflammation marked by vascularity of the membrane. The pain of acute inflammation of the bone, or its membran- ous and cellular part, is generally severe and deep-seated, and often extends along the course of the bone to a consider- able extent from the focus. If the internal structure of the bone be chiefly affected, there may for a time be little appear-85 ance outwardly; but if the external surface be affected, the parts around participate, and the skin ultimately inflames. The inflammation may end in resolution ; in which case, the pain abates, and any swelling which had existed slowly sub- sides, or it may end in suppuration, called caries by some, without apparent death of any distinct portion. This also may follow death and exfoliation. Necrosis is the most fre- quent termination ; but the layer may be very thin which is destroyed. Inflammation of the periosteum or medullary membrane, with death of the osseous texture, is very common, whilst that degree of inflammation which merely changes without killing the osseous texture, is rare. We meet indeed with man}' cases of caries or inflammation, verging toward that state, with softening of the portion of bone; but these cases are generally preceded by exfoliation of part of the bone. In the various experiments which were instituted for the purpose of ascertaining the effect of inflammation on different stiuctuies, as well as in those made to illustrate the general natuie of inflammation, I have been accurately and carefully assisted by my son Mr. Allan Burns. I disapprove as much as any one of cruel experiments wantonly instituted for the gratification of mere curiosity. But I should blush for the man who demanded an apology for investigations which can in any degree tend to alleviate the pain, or preserve the life of an intellectual being. SECTION FOURTH. An important question next arises. Is there one general and definite action peculiar to inflammation, and admitting only of modifications from the nature of the part affected, and the circumstances in which it is placed; or are there different species of the disease essentially distinct in their nature, and necessarily contrary in their termination ? To determine this question we must learn whether the various textures when subjected to inflammation do ever exhibit, with any regularity, different and opposite phenomena, according to the character of the cause. One distinction is into phleg-86 monous and erysipelatous. The first is also styled by some healthy or adhesive inflammation. It is attended with effusion of fibrin or coagulable lymph, is comparatively circumscribed, and when it terminates in abscess the pus is contained in a distinct cavity. The general characters of this inflammation have been given when describing a phlegmon. The second is said to be an unhealthy inflammation, and has been, in its general character, described when speaking of inflammation of the skin. It is marked by superficial redness, a greater disposition to spread and involve the surrounding skin, whence it derives its name, the serous or albumenous depositions in place of fibrin, its inferior tendency to suppuration, or the infiltration of the pus, when it does suppurate, into the cellular substance, and a total want of all disposition to adhesion. The following remarks may be of some use on this subject:— 1. It is notorious that the same exciting cause applied to different parts will produce different degrees and modifications of inflammation. Heat or irritants applied to the skin, to the cellular substance, to the villous coat of the intestine, to the liver, &c. will produce in all of these a variation of effect, according to the difference of structure and function. 2. Cutaneous or erythematic inflammation often extends deeper, and causes inflammation of the subjacent cellular sub- stance, ending in circumscribed abscess. Inflammation of the mucous membrane of the tonsil often extends to the tissue below, and produces suppuration or quinsey. 3. Inflammation of the subcutaneous parts often does, on the other hand, produce cutaneous or superficial inflamma- tion or redness, in no respect differing in appearance from erythema; and when the conjunctiva is inflamed by an irritating substance, or in consequence of scarlatina, measles, or erysipelas of the face or eyelids, that membrane exhibits so exactly the same character, that not all the ingenuity of an oculist of full blood, who starts not at a trifle in the way of nomenclature and subdivision, can point out to a candid student the distinction. 4. The skin when inflamed is prone to effusion of serum87 outwardly or inwardly, and this of course diminishes the tendency to phlegmon. 5. Many cutaneous inflammations, whether named erythema or erysipelas, do arise from deep inflammation, as, for instance, that of fascia, periosteum, &c. 6. 1 he connexion and sympathy of the cutaneous nerves is very extensive; and as inflammation depends greatly on the action of the nerves, we may readily explain both the extension of inflammation, and its appearance in other parts. 7. The influence of the internal viscera on the cutaneous surface, however explained, is notorious, and many cases of ei}sipelas do aiise from that source, and from the same cause become erratic. 8. This must be still more frequent when an exciting cause is applied to the skin, or an injury is inflicted; but in vhatever way the erysipelas in such cases begins, the habit of l)ody is little able to bear disease, and the system is soon injured. The state of the skin quickly exerts an influence on hat of the subcutaneous texture, and it participates in the sinking or debilitated state: hence gangrene of that texture takes place. 9. Inflammation beginning in the skin, if from a local cause in a healthy system, is confined to the part, or if it extend to other textures, these follow their own course. But if caused by, or connected with, a depraved and morbid habit, it is of a bad kind, and communicates sympathetically a similar bad, or perhaps gangrenous, state to the parts below, (and vice versa.) Even independent of constitution, the condition of the nerves themselves has a great influence on cutaneous inflammation. 10. Much depends on the extent to which the exciting cause has been applied, and the degree in which it has acted* as well as on the constitution. In a laceration with or without friction, for instance, the whole parts may be incapable of sustaining inflammation. The muscles may inflame and perish, so may the cellular substance, and the skin, partici- pating in all this, will inflame also and die; yet, surely, in such cases, there is nothing peculiar in the nature of the in-88 flammation, which is only influenced by the state of the parts, liom all these circumstances, I conclude, that erysipelatous is not a genus distinct from phlegmonous inflammation, nor a disease essentially different from it, but that its peculiarities are dependant on the texture and function of the part; and if such inflammation do spread to other parts, and produce more injury than phlegmonous inflammation, originating in these parts, would have done, this arises from the morbid or exhausted state of the skin, exerting a sympathetic influence on the parts involved, and rendering them incapable of sus- taining disease. Another species of inflammation has been called oedematous, from the part swelling greatly, and assuming an oedematous appearance. This, however, is only a consequence of the lax cellular nature of the part affected, the best example being afforded by the prepuce. It is merely a phlegmon with more effusion of fibrin, than in many other parts, and the surface is seldom of a red colour at all deep. An oedematous part maj inflame superficially, or erysipelas may attack an oedematous limb, but surely there is nothing peculiar in the nature of such an inflammation. Gangrenous inflammation is dependant on the previous state of the parts, or the peculiarity and intensity of the exciting cause. It is not a distinct species. Inflammation has also been divided into the adhesive, sup- purative, and ulcerative. Now, with regard to the first. adhesion is a mere result of a certain degree of inflammatory action in parts which do not throw out a fluid capable of preventing it. The two last are different processes altogether, bearing no resemblance to inflammation farther than in the parts having an increased vascularity. With more advantage we may divide inflammation into the valida and debilis, the first affecting parts strong and healthy ; the second, parts which are weak or easily exhausted. The termination of these if not arrested is generally different, the one most frequently ending in suppuration, the other in gangrene. Farther, we may divide inflammation into the acute and89 chronic, or assuefacta. It is not my intention to enter into a detail of the changes produced on the various textures by this state. I will only observe, that at least till this state terminate in some other disease, and an entirely new organ- ization be produced, the vascularity continues nearly as great as in acute inflammation; or if any difference exist, it is in the somewhat less injection of the capillary arteries, and the pre- ponderance of the veins. The part is always thickened, and will be either harder or softer than in the natural state, according to the relation that it bore to firm fibrin. The brain will be harder, many other parts softer, than in health. Another distinction is into simple and specific inflamma- tion. The first comprehends inflammation produced by ordinary or natural agents, as heat, cold, stimulants, external injury, &c. and may be farther subdivided into the various modifications dependant on structure; as, for instance, rheu- matism affecting the fibrous texture, or those arising from the difference of the cause, for even in what is called simple inflam- mation there may be a peculiarity connected with the difference of the cause and its intensity. This would lead to a multitude of distinctions, and we might farther form subdivisions accord- ing to the constitutional and sympathetic effects. But how- ever essential it may be for the practitioner to be acquainted with these, and prepared for them, they never can be so methodized as to form the basis of a practical arrangement. The second division embraces those inflammations produced by peculiar contagions and viruses, and some more obscure causes, such as syphilis, cancer, scrofula, variola, gout, &c. SECTION FIFTH. Inflammation has different modes of termination. It may abate, and the part return to health. This is called resolu- tion. There is a preliminary stage in which the vessels are merely enlarged, and the sensibility increased ; and recovery here consists in the contraction of the vessels, and the diminu- tion of sensibility, and these are probably connected with each other. If we expose for a short time the intestine of a rabbit, we find its surface becomes much more vascular, branches90 shooting out even to the naked eye with great promptitude, 10m those which at first seemed alone the receivers of red blood. If the intestine be now replaced, and the wound of the abdomen carefully closed, we may find that within four hours the bowel has been restored to its natural state. If the hver be in like manner exposed, its peritoneal coat becomes redder, but it also returns to health, if the cause be removed. Now, I am quite aware that these are not cases of inflamma- tion, but merely of the prelude to it; but they illustrate the fiist step of recovery, and ought to impress on the mind of the student the incalculable value of the first hours of disease, when remedies may arrest a disease, which, if established, cannot perhaps by any effort be controlled. The same lesult is obtained by experiments on the web of a frog’s foot, If we allow the disease to proceed farther, we find that inflam- mation is established, and then resolution is more slow. The vessels gradually contract, the globules are seen to move along, the blood, which perhaps had lost its globular appearance, begins to resume it. The capillaries no longer receive red blood, and the infiltration of muddy serum is finally absorbed. Resolution, then, or the direct diminution of inflammatory action, involves three circumstances. The contraction of the vessels, the abatement of sensibility, and the absorption of adventitious deposites or effusions. Another termination is in chronic tumour, which has im- properly been called schirrus. In this case the sensibility abates, and the vessels greatly contract, but the deposite is not absorbed; it even becomes sometimes firmer or more oro-an- O ized, and a new structure or parasite is grafted as it were on the body. This possesses an action proper to itself, which is often still so far of an inflammatory nature, that by removing it the tumour abates. Suppuration and gangrene are the other terminations of inflammation, for any other may be referred to these. Ulcer- ation is often, but very improperly, confounded with suppu- ration : all of these shall presently be considered.91 SECTION SIXTH. If healthy blood be allowed to remain at rest, it separates into two parts, a red solid portion called crassamentum, and a thin watery part or serum. The whole forms usually at first one mass. Then, from every spot of it globules of fluid start out, and these collect so as to constitute a quantity more than equal to the crassamentum. It is quite impossible to say what time is required for coagulation, as this depends much on the state of the animal. Blood, received into a cup from a healthy sheep, coagulates almost immediately, and in the human sub- ject, if there be no inflammation, it rarely requires five minutes to make it firm. In reduced habits, the proportion of the two parts may be greatly altered, so that the crassamentum is not more than a sixth of the whole, and the time required for coagulation also varies. The crassamentum consists of two parts, fibrin and red globules; and if we may depend on Berzelius, the chief difference between these is in colour; and the proportion has been stated to be 36 of the former to 64? of the latter. The globules consist of two parts, a central colourless portion, and a red portion, which forms about two- thirds of the globule. The other parts of the blood also contain globules, but they are not coloured. The solid portion, or crassamentum, has little fibrin compared to the water which entei'S into its composition. I had a sheep killed, and received the first and the"'last blood, and found so little difference between them that it might easily be explained by the degree of exsiccation. Eleven drachms of each yielded, the one ten, the other nine grains of dried fibrin. This shows that the pro- portion of fibrin in the crassamentum does not vary rapidly. The serum of healthy blood contains albumen, and coagulates at 160° into a gelatinous mass of a whitish colour. It is con- sidered as a solution of much albumen with a small quantity of fibrin. In inflammation the blood undergoes a great change. In place of rapidly separating into serum and red homogeneous crassamentum, it coagulates slowly, and the crassamentum separates more or less completely into fibrin and globules, theI 92 former settling into a crust more or less thick on the surface of the latter, or red globular part. This crust is known unc ei t le name of the bully coat, and in some inflammations it not only is thick, but is contracted and puckered, so as to be often more than a fifth less in diameter than the red por- tion. The maigins are also from the contraction turned up, and may be elevated nearly a quarter of an inch above the surface. Ihe upper surface is smooth, the under surface rough, and adheres firmly to the red clot, but sends no pro- longations into it. Various circumstances affect the formation of the coat. If the blood flow slowly, and in a small stream, it is so affected as to exhibit little or no buff1. It seems also that cold in a certain degree prevents its formation. The shape of the vessel, even when the blood flows freely, and from a large orifice, has an influence. It is thicker when the vessel is of small diameter than when it is broad; but in these cases it is difficult to say hether the same quantity of blood throws up different pro- poi tions of pure fibrin. In a broad vessel one part of the surface may have a thick coat of buff, and another none at all. It has been supposed that the slowness of coagulation was the cause of the appearance of the huffy coat, the red globules being heavier than the fibrin, and the fibrin than the serum. This is too mechanical an explanation, and not supported by fact; for, whilst inflammatory blood may coagulate slowly, it also may coagulate rapidly; and, in general, in less than the time allotted for the coagulation of healthy blood, the buff begins to appear. We must therefore refer it to some con- dition of the blood itself, leading to more rapid separation of its component parts. The state of the system determines this, for, in the same patient, blood may flow equally rapidly, and yet different cups may exhibit different degrees of buff, and it is not always the last which has the least. Syncope, or a state approaching to it, seems to diminish the tendency to buff, for the blo.od during or after this state is seldom buffy. A patient also may be bled in the early stage of inflamma- tion, and the blood exhibit little buff, but the next bleedino- may be very sizy. One cup also, under circumstances appa-93 rently the same, may have a smooth and uncontracted coat of fibrin ; another may have the fibrin veiy much puckered and drawn in; but the judgment ought, I think, always to be formed from the worst specimen. I also wish to impress the reader with the fact, that there may be high inflammation, requiring farther evacuation, when there is little or no con- traction, and that there may be very little contraction if the vessel be broad and shallow. 3 he proportion of the buffy coat to the red coagulum varies much, and both contain uncertain relative quantities of serum. In few acute cases, have we the buff less than one-fourth of the weight of the red clot, and it may be more. The huffy coat does not consist of fibrin alone, but the greatest part of it is serum, or watery fluid. One drachm of the crust yielded when dried only eleven grains of hard fibrin. The same quantity of muscle, macerated and washed, so as to purify it as much as these processes could do, yielded twelve grains. If dried without maceration the weight was seventeen grains. It has been supposed that the quantity of serum is incieased in inflammation, and that the lymph or fibrin becomes thinner; but both of these opinions require confir- mation. There may early appear to be more serum, from the gieatei contraction of the crassamentum forcing out more in the separation, and after many bleedings and much illness, the quantity of solid portion is diminished in all diseases. A more marked change takes place in the quality of the serum, for whilst healthy serum coagulates into a soft white mass at 160°; it loses the property of coagulation in inflammation ; which shows either that its albumen is removed, or so changed as to have lost its characteristic. Other states besides that of inflammation can produce a buffy coat on the blood, but I believe none else can cause contraction of the coat. This may take place indeed without marked symptoms of local disease, as in synocha; but other fevers of a different type, although attended with equal heat and frequency of pulse, have not the same effect. A con- tinued local excitement, or increased action, although notattended with fever, may produce sizy blood without con- traction, as we see in pregnancy ; and hence very slight disease in the puerperal state may be attended with great apparent effect on the blood. Different causes have been assigned for the appearance of . the huffy coat, such as slowness of coagulation, &c. Now, if we concede that slow coagulation allowed the globules to subside before the fibrin coagulated, still we must seek for some other cause productive of the great contraction of the coat in high inflammation. We must look to an alteration in the state, or vital properties of the blood itself, indepen- dent of all mechanical explanations; and must not only admit, so far as facts go, a greater tendency in such blood to sepa- rate rapidly into its constituent parts, but also a change in the properties of these parts, the fibrin coagulating more firmly, and the serum being less disposed to coagulate. The alteration in the state of the globules is more obscure. The blood undergoes a more decided change in the small vessels of the inflamed part itself. Dr. Hastings maintains that it necessarily loses its globular appearance, otherwise he does not admit that inflammation exists, and that it is con- verted into a thick homogeneous fluid of a red colour. I have made many microscopic observations to determine this point, and am quite satisfied that all the appearances of inflammation may take place whilst globules are still visible, but admit the frequency of the change, and perhaps its universality in high degrees. I need not tell those who are conversant with such experiments, that the colour depends much on the brightness of the light, and the fulness of the vessel. If the light be concentrated, and the vessels of the frog’s web natural, the globules appear like brilliant specks, having a reddish or o-olden hue, if their brilliancy do not overpower their tint, moving in a colourless fluid, or rather in a stream merely so interrupted as to show the individuality of the globules. If the light be duller, the colour is red or reddish, and the bril- liancy is absent. If the vessel be more empty than natural, the globules assume a brownish colour, and seem to float indolently in a watery fluid. This is still better seen in the95 mesenteric vessels of a rabbit, or in its splenic artery. If the vessel be much contracted, as, for instance, by the appli- cation of ice to the web of a frog, the blood seems pale, very thin, and rather of a dirty brown than of a red colour. When the web is inflamed, the appearance of the blood varies according to the degree and duration. The light has also an effect on the appearance. Under vascularity apparently the same, and after the application of the same excitement, we find the vessels distended with bright red fluid, without globules, in one case, and in another, the fluid is reddish, muddy-yellow, or brownish. Watching the progress of the changes, it appears as if the globules first coalesced, or ran together, so as next to form a flocculent appearance, or patches of thick blood, with- out apparent globules. In all such cases, the motion of the fluid has ceased. But if the motion begin by any cause, globules immediately appear, or patches seem to break down and move off, and always in a globular form. It is there- fore evident, either that the globules still exist, but from great propinquity and want of motion cannot be seen, and the fluid seems homogeneous, or that if they be destroyed, the mass or patch can quickly resume its globular structure. In many paits, from the stagnant state, no globules can be seen, and we should say the fluid was homogeneous; but presently a globule revolving partially, or changing its position, comes to be seen, and evinces that the globules have not been destroyed. If we puncture a vessel when the fluid is in this stagnant, and apparently homogeneous state, the blood flows out, and is just as globular as ever. In higher degrees, the fluid is coagulated, and does not flow, but then the part is irrecoverable. From all that I have seen, I consider, that if the part be not dead or moribund, the blood is still globular, but the globules may be so close together, that they cannot be distinguished. If we inflame the intestine of a rabbit by injecting a stimulating fluid into the abdomen, we find, if the animal be inspected before being quite dead, that the peri- toneal coat is arborescent to a minute degree, the blood is globular; and if the bowel be pinched between the finger and thumb so as to have its vessels emptied, as those of theskin in erysipelas are by pressure, the blood flows quickly again into them when the finger is removed. It appears, from the observation of others, that while the globules are surrounded with their colouring matter, they do not coalesce; and if exposed on a glass so thinly as to dry instantaneously, they necessarily remain entire, but if thicker, so as to retain moisture for half a minute, they separate into their two parts. Whether any separation of the colouring and clear part of the globules take place in the capillary vessels in inflammation, is a point I have not been able to determine. SECTION SEVENTH. We are next to attend to the effect on the system at large, which varies according to the functions and nature of the organ affected, and the sympathies which exist or are called forth. The previous state of the constitution has also no small influence. A general effect is known under the name of fever, which may be illustrated by the history and progress of simple synocha. This begins with sense of coldness, particularly about the back, and very often the extremities, and some- times the whole surface feels cold to the hand of another per- son. But presently, the temperature increases beyond the ordinary degree, though for some time the sensation of cold be perceived by the patient. Then he has the feeling of cold alternated with that of heat, and presently that of heat becomes permanent, and the skin is dry and hot. The cold stage, which is not always very long nor highly marked, is attended, or even preceded by, languor, anorexia, and some- times nausea; and very soon a sense of soreness or aching in the limbs and loins, or over the body, is perceived, and the patient becomes restless. Headach is also an attendant on the early stage, particularly if the stomach be much affected; and when the fever is fully established, there is considerable throb- bing in the head, and sometimes delirium, or there may be a drowsy slumbering state, which brings no refreshment. In the cold stage, the face is pale, and the eye less biilliant, but in the hot, the face is often flushed, and the eye perhaps suf-97 1 used. The pulse from the first moment is accelerated, but not to a great degree, particularly in the early part of the day; and unless in severe and rather protracted cases, is never so high as in typhus fever. It may not at first be above 80, and during the course of the disease may never exceed 110. If it prove fatal, the pulse, however, beats more fre- quently, and also becomes intermittent or irregular and tre- mulous. It is always marked in the earlier periods as hard, and generally as full. In these respects, however, much must depend on the constitution of the patient, and the existing sympathies. The local symptoms and period of the disease, and effect of former evacuations, must be a better practical rule to follow in using the lancet than the mere state of the pulse. The tongue is white, and tolerably moist, but it soon becomes drier and browner, or yellowish and slimy, when the biliary organs are affected. In the cold stage, the urine is generally pale; in the hot it becomes high coloured, and in the wane deposites a lateritious sediment. The bowels are constipated. 1 he appetite is early diminished, and presently altogether lost, but the patient is thirsty. He continues in this state perhaps for several days; then the tongue becomes cleaner, he sleeps more calmly, and the skin becomes moist, whilst the thirst diminishes, and the appetite returns. If he grow worse, the pulse increases in frequency, and.becomes weak and irregular, the strength sinks, and the various func- tions fail. The two essential symptoms of fever are heat and frequency of pulse; for the cold stage, when it exists, is merely a pre- cursor, and does not constitute a part of the disease. It is therefore allowable to infer, that the nerves influencing the heart and the secretion of heat are principally affected. It seems established beyond all doubt, that whilst the heart can act for a time independently of the nervous influence, it is nevertheless most powerfully affected by the cerebellum and medulla oblongata and spinalis, and in part by the cerebrum. ^ itliout entering into physiological experiments, I may rest on the observations of every pathologist, which go to decide that torpor or inactivity of the cord or medulla oblongata H98 produce a slow circulation, the heart beating sometimes not more than thirty times in a minute, whilst any excitement of these cause an opposite state; and in no case have we the pulse more rapid than in inflammation, or even simple excitement of the spinal cord. Next, without entering into the minute theory of animal heat, I may remark, that mere rapidity of cir- culation cannot explain increased evolution, for we have often much heat of the surface when the pulse is only moderately, perhaps not at all accelerated, and coldness when it is very frequent. We must, thei'efore, independently of all experi- ments, come to the conclusion, that nervous action has much influence on the extrication of heat. The two prominent attendants on fever, however, are mere symptoms indicative of excitement of those nerves which influence them; and, accordingly, we may say that fever is an excitement of the medulla oblongata and spinalis, with or without the more accidental one of the brain. But various distant and. local causes may produce fever, and these operate sympathetically on the origin of the nerves, or by communicating excitation to the medulla; and as the nature of the local disorder is, so is that of the communicated excitement or irritation, and thus the state of the origin is modified thereby. Fever, there- fore, although a generic term, is divisible into numerous species and varieties, according to the nature of the exciting cause; and, whilst we recognise the general characters ol the disease, such as heat and frequency of the pulse, we find it diffi- cult to detect the minuter shades, and sometimes neglect even the more evident distinctions, from inattention to then impoit- ance. This is less likely to continue to be the case, as we begin to attach more value to distinctive characters; and one O , . of the first services to be performed to a nosologist, is to con- vince him that there is no such thing in one respect as a simple fever, for all preternatural action constituting fever must depend on the operation of agents not natural in then- kind or degree, and therefore not productive of mere simple excitation. If simple excitation ever exist, it must be impos- sible to distinguish it; and we have as much reason to say that it is a phantom as a reality. No two excitements aie99 precisely the same; and we have besides great varieties pro- duced by the part of the medulla spinalis or brain principally affected, and the extent of substance directly acted on, as well as the intensity of action. As a thousand different agents may produce febrile action, so are there as many varieties of disease, which it may not be possible to detect. I am quite aware that this view will include under fever some states which noso- logists will not be willing to admit,, such as that produced by racing, by any violent exertion, or by intoxication, &c. Now, I have no objection to admit at once, that I see no reason why these should not be called fever, more than why anger should not truly be called a short madness. I know of no rational distinction, as to real character, which can be founded on mere duiation ; and, in point of fact, we find, that if a patient have just recovered from any fever which may be repeated, (I speak not of small-pox, &c.), and have a state of.fever renewed by any of those causes, which in health might have been temporary, or if he have been predisposed strongly to disease, such causes may produce a very protracted disease. There are two kinds of fever attended with local disease. First> those in which the local disease has acted as a cause exciting the origin of the nerves. Second, those in which the excitement was more immediately and directly produced or engendered in the origin, and this may produce improper action in the extremities of the nerves, or disease in the part supplied by them; and the general fever may exceed all pro- portion to the local disease, still more frequently in this, than in the first division. Now, applying this division to inflam- mation, we do find, that in some instances the immediate exciting cause does first manifest itself by the production of fever, and then the local disease takes place, whilst in others the local inflammation exists for a short time before the fever appears. There is also a third class of cases, where they are so nearly simultaneous, that it is impossible to say which has the precedence. Let any one keep an accurate account of the history of his cases of pleurisy, for instance, and lie shall find, that in many of these his patient, after being exposed to cold, wet, and fatigue, had a shivering fit, went to bed, was100 restless and burning hot all night; next day felt uncomfort- able about the chest, began to cough, and in the course of that day, or of the next night, had for the first time pain in his side. Now, I am quite aware that it may be said, that both general and local disease began at one and the same time, and from the same cause, but that only an excited, not an inflamed state of the pleura at first existed. But I am entitled to ask the proof of the existence of local disease before local symptoms manifested themselves, and at liberty, till satisfied on this point, to adhere to my own opinion. Now, what every practical man must have seen often in pleurisy, he may also have observed in inflammation of the brain or of the bowels. We know that there is no acute inflammation of the perito- naeurn without pain, which is one of the first symptoms. We know also, that causes acting on the stomach, &c. may not produce immediate local inflammation, but first of all fever, and then inflammation. Thus a person greatly heated may imprudently drink cold water, and have severe pain like cramp produced, and die speedily. But we also know that the first effect may be a shivering, followed by fever, and no pain may take place in the abdomen for some hours, although the progress of the disease, and dissection after death, establish the production and existence of inflammation. Could we be always apprized of the illness, or on our guard as to the pos- sible result when we are consulted, how many fatal inflam- mations might be prevented by bloodletting, &c. after the fever fairly begins, but before the local disease takes place, and whilst the origin of the nerves is alone or at least principally affected. It may also happen, that a fever thus produced by cold or other causes, may not produce inflammation of any of the viscera, but may so affect some of them as to cause, by their sympathetic influence on a third place, an inflammation there. The influence of the chylopoietic viscera on the skin is notorious, and cutaneous inflammation is often produced in many modifications by that influence, both in children and adults. Now, whether the fever produce the state ot any of these viscera which leads to cutaneous disease, or whether this state first of all produces fever, and then cutaneous disease,101 we know it to be a matter of fact, that erysipelas is often pre- ceded for a day, or for two or three days, by very smart fever. When fever takes place from an injury or operation, it may succeed inflammation of the part, and in that case it is generally, though not uniformly, mild. But in most dan- gerous cases it is simultaneous with the local disease, or some- times the constitutional disorder even precedes, by a verv short time, the local symptoms. An operation or injury often acts more directly or seriously, by influencing the gene- ral system, or the nervous system, than by its immediate effect on the part itself. The cold stage of the fever, or constitutional disorder, is attended at first with an actual diminution of temperature. Less heat is evolved, at least at the surface. The pulse, even at this stage, may be frequent, but the extreme vessels, if we judge from the colour and shrunk appearance of the skin, aie not filled as usual. T his cannot be from diminished impetus, for in many cases the impetus is less when the sur- face is hot and coloured; but it must be from a change in the condition of the living system. All actions of the system seem, at this time, to be impaired, and some more than others. The evolution of heat is affected generally in a degree pro- portioned to the distance from the heart; and the actual temperature is also diminished in proportion as the part is exposed to circumstances carrying off heat quickly. I know not that the heat of the internal parts is diminished; and it is not probable, for unless there be sickness and great depres- sion, the surface of the trunk is not lowered above one or two degrees, whilst the hands and feet may be many degrees lower. As the temperature is somewhat affected at every part of the surface, and particularly at the extremities, which may, and do affect the general feeling, it is easily understood why there should be a sense of coldness. But independent of this cause, the nerves of sensation seem to be affected; for presently when the temperature has risen to the natural stand- off of the individual, or even gone beyond it, he still feels cold, and has the sensation of chills along his back, if not clse.vheie. A marked example of this state of the nerves I102 have seen in some affections of the spine, where a prominent symptom was a sense of great coldness referred to the bones. In the cold stage of a fever, not merely the nerves of sensa- tion are affected, but sometimes those connected with motion; and we have in different instances a gradation from a slight shiver to a general convulsive agitation. The same cause which produces this state may also occasion aching pain in different parts of the body, or sense of indescribable tiredness or languor. A feeling of cold, with or without diminution of temperature, also frequently attends derangement of the stomachic nerves, and that although no sickness be produced. It is greater if sickness occur, and in that case is at least lessened after vomiting. This is not necessarily followed either by increased temperature or sensation, for it is a mere nervous affection. It may also follow a wound or operation, from the mere change or novelty in the state of the organ and its nerves, especially if it be sensible, and a vital organ. It does not certainly indicate the commencement of inflam- mation, nor usher in fever, after lithotomy, &c. particularly if it appear very early, and there be no other bad symptom. But in elderly and exhausted people it is often followed by a state, in which the system never properly recruits, but sinks daily. It is even possible for death to take place within a few hours, without one effort to rally. This sometimes hap- pens also in very susceptible habits, or in children; and cor- dials prudently exhibited are of signal service. Another cir- cumstance connected with the cold stage is, that if the system be very susceptible, the mere exposure of part of the body to cold brings on a general sensation of cold, and sometimes causes rigor or shivering. This is well seen in the puerperal state, and during lactation. Farther, if a person have form- erly had intermittent fever, or been just recovering from a continued fever, the production of the sensation of cold so acts on the nervous system as often to renew the disease. The state of the nerves giving rise to the sensation of cold, after the temperature has increased, cannot be that of mere diminution of sensibility, for the susceptibility of other sensations is not lessened.103 The essential condition of fever seems to be an excited state of that part of the nervous system which influences the action of the heart, and this part seems also to have an intimate connexion with the evolution of heat. But the two circum- stances of frequency of pulse and increased temperature, are not always proportioned to one another. The pulse may be affected by various sympathies, or by direct influence, so as to make it slower than natural, whilst the temperature is increased. The excitation of the portion of the nervous sys- tem alluded to may be counteracted by other states; and if these be of a varying nature, we may have alternately a fre- quent and a slow pulse, and this is well seen in some cases of hydrocephalus, &c. We also find, that in some cases of disease of the brain, when the pulse is gone, the patient insen- sible, and within an hour of death, the skin is still rather above than below the natural temperature, and also is be- dewed with moisture, showing the action of the capillary vessels. If I be correct in my view of fever, it will appear that it is only a criterion of the degree of excitement of the most important part of the nervous system, and that only when no sympathetic influence counteracts the manifestation, but that it never is a decided, far less infallible rule for esti- mating the degree of local inflammation. Observation leads me, I think, to a sure conclusion when I say, that the dano-er of any case cannot be estimated by the degree of fever alone, nor by the degree of local pain, but by both, connected with the general and particular injury of the various functions, and the steady tendency in the disease to increase. The fever and the local disease not being necessarily proportioned to one another, we may have even a fatal fever attended with local inflammation in no very high degree, and sometimes the reverse of this may take place. There is, however, always this connexion between the local and general disease, that if the alfected organ or part sink in its power, or change in its action, the fever also is modified • and therefore the state of the system is very different in the commencement and height of an inflammation, and when it is verging towards gangrene.I he state oi the pulse is supposed to be uniformly affected by the nature of the organ inflamed, but always to be hard. I fear that there is somewhat of fancy in the minute distinc- tion made in the qualities of the pulse. Frequency, is one, lespecting which there can be no fancy, and yet two people often disagree as to the number. When the inflamed part is not an organ connected with the sensation of sickness, or does not influence such an organ, the pulse is generally fuller and more bounding; but even in this case there is a latitude, and the pulse both early and throughout may be smaller and more compressible. Fulness does not indicate strength, nor belong to the height of the disease alone. In the period of sinking it is also often met with; and if blood be then taken away, the patient is rapidly cut off. It is not produced by the absolute quantity of blood in the body, for the pulse may be small at first, and then near death, and after many evacua- tions, may be full, though feeble. So far as this depends on the quantity of blood, it can only arise from more blood being retained in the arteries, and less received by the veins. The feel of the pulse may vary within a few minutes, partly from a difference in the strength of the heart’s contraction, and partly from the state of the arteries themselves, and the alter- ation in the velocity of the blood’s motion. Although fulness of the pulse may be combined with weakness, yet more fre- quently the pulse becomes small when it becomes weak ; and often, from irregularity of the heart’s action, it becomes inter- mittent. This smallness may readily be produced by nausea, or tendency to syncope, and often is met with in inflamma- tion of the stomach and intestines, and, it has been thought, more frequently when the small, than when the large intes- tines were affected. The kidney and testicle, if rapidly inflamed, or high sensation be rapidly excited in them, often produce depression and small pulse; but the effect is not invariable, the pulse being not unfrequently full and bound- ing in both cases; and in this instance the patient has little affection of the stomach. The uterus, when inflamed, is still less apt to be attended with a small pulse. In inflamed glands, as the breast, tonsils, &c. or muscles or joints, the10.5 sensation is seldom of a sickening or depressing kind, and the pulse is sharp and bounding. Inflammation of the spinal cord is attended with a very rapid pulse at first, but it is small or contracted in proportion to its rapidity. Inflamma- tion of the brain also produces frequent pulse, and generally it is full. Any judgment attempted to be formed by the state of the pulse, should always be corrected by attention to the temperature, the local symptoms, the period of the disease, and the effect of evacuation. Much also depends on the peculiar constitution of the patient, and the train of sympa- thies which exist. In some cases,- the effect on the system produced by an inflamed part, merits rather the name of irritation than of inflammatory fever. This consists in a general and disagree- able excitement of the system ; a kind of fretting, if that term, more applicable to the mind, may be employed with regard to the body, with a restlessness and indescribable uncomfort- able feeling. This is also accompanied with an increased susceptibility of the sentient, and irritability of the muscular system. The heart is also excited to more frequent action, and the pulse is sharp and frequent, unless such sympathies exist as cause slowness of pulse. Very often some of the chylopoietic viscera, particularly the stomach and liver, are affected. It is the effect of local pain or uneasiness, and its degree is regulated by the kind of sensation, and the ten- derness of the organ affected, and the sympathy it possesses. A slight irritation of the eye produces considerable systematic affection. Toothache, though much more painful, is less apt to do so, and more likely to produce the fever of excitement. Inflammation may produce in the system irritation, as well as inflammatory fever, or the two may be combined. Enteritis sometimes causes both. Burns may do the same, under cer- tain -circumstances; for whilst severe and acute pain exhausts, more moderate, but gnawing or fretting, pain irritates. If severe pain do not soon exhaust, it increases the irritability of the system. This state of irritation may, or may not assume the form of a febrile paroxysm, according to circum- stances. It may supervene in the more distinct inflammatory106 lever, or rather this may glide into it, and then we have no defined commencement. „ In other cases, we have first a local irritation or uneasy feeling, productive speedily of some sym- pathetic effect, as, for instance, on the stomach, or directly on the nervous system, and followed by a regular paroxysm like ague. This does not fall properly to be considered here; but an example may be found in the stricture of the urethra, particularly when a bougie is passed. SECTION EIGHTH. With regard to the exciting causes of inflammation, it may be said in general, that they consist in whatever can excite the action of a part beyond a certain degree, compared to its exciting powers and previous action. They therefore compre- hend all stimuli capable of acting on a part directly or indi- rectly, and will be found to include many causes, which in systems founded more on methodical simplicity than on truth, are considered as depressing, or lessening action, and respect- ing which, the more fastidious might sometimes find it difficult to say, whether they belonged more to the class of predispos- ing or exciting causes. Without entering into any special enumeration of individual causes, I may mention, that they can operate, First, directly or indirectly, by their stimulating or exciting effect on the part to which they are applied. Example of this we have in the operation of heat, acrid substances, mechanical irritation of sensible surfaces, &c. These act immediately on the extremities of the nerves of the part, and consequently will produce effects proportionate to the susceptibility and sensibility. The cold-blooded animals have the capillary circulation continuing apparent in a limb for some time after it has been cut off, and it may even be excited to a state resembling inflammation. But we cannot inflame, in the slightest degree, the foot of a man by applying to it boiling water the moment after amputation. Whether if it were at the same time influenced by galvanism, it would inflame, I have not determined. No part can be much inflamed without a strong effect being produced on the extre- mities of the nervous fibrilke, including those which are con-I 107 / • cerned in the evolution of heat, as well as those destined for sensation and the other functions of the part, as well as its nutrition and general organization. These again influence the origin of the nerves, not indeed always in the same way, but still in such a way, and to such an extent, as to alter its condition, and produce perhaps extensive influence along the medulla spinalis, &c. This leads, as I have already stated, to the production of general and remote effects, and, amongst others, the establishment of fever. But besides these, it also reacts on the extremities, and such a state once induced will then keep up the action at the extremities, or the local disease; and, therefore, neither the removal of the exciting cause, nor the application of topical remedies, can be depended on for arresting the local inflammation. In this way we also explain the appearance of inflammation in another place, or opposite limb from the one in which it originated, and that even after the first one seems to be ffettintj better. I am therefore led to a Second way, in which an exciting cause may act, namely, not on the part where the disease manifests itself, but on the origins of the nerves which go to it. This is on the principle of the sympathy of association. It is noto- rious, that certain irritations and excitants of the brain and medulla spinalis can produce spasm, pain, &c. in dis- tant parts; nor does there seem any reason to doubt that inflammation itself may be often produced in this way. It is well known to surgeons, that injury of the head may be fol- lowed by inflammation of the liver, ending speedily in abscess. It is equally certain, that many severe inflammations appear without any evident cause, and which can in no other way be so readily explained as by admitting them to arise from a condition of the origin of the nerve, induced either by the operation of some obscure cause acting directly on it or on its vessels, or by the influence of some remote sympathy exerted on it, perhaps cold applied to a distant part, or disorder of the alimentary organs, &c. It is evident, however, that any excitement, or even inflammation itself of the origin of the nerve, may not cause inflammation of the extremities. There are numerous instances of the one existing without the108 otliei and, therefore, whilst I bring forward the principle, I must admit the obscurity often of the condition, and the co-operation in many cases of predisposition in the organ itself- In this view, we can understand why venesection can cine an inflammation not to be removed by the most copious evacuation from the neighbourhood of the part itself. Third, Inflammation may be produced by the intervention of the sympathy of equilibrium. This is one way in which cold acts, when applied to the surface of the fauces, chest, &e. It diminishes the action of the skill, and increases in a pro- portionate degree that of the parts within, and thus lias the same effect as if a direct stimulus were applied to them. But we can seldom in the living system safely calculate on a simple effect, and in the present case, must therefore attend to other circumstances. Whilst it may thus, in many instances, act on the part directly below, we must not be guided merely by theoretical speculations, but must attend to another effect, namely, that of smart sensation produced on the surface, and which may, on the principle so often alluded to, act on the extremities of deeper nerves, through the medium of their origins; and once for all I state, that there is nothing to pre- vent both modes operating conjunctly, and the connected force may produce a result which neither separately could do. Now, when speaking of cold as an exciting cause of inflam- mation, I must remark, that it may operate on a very distant part, by means of the sympathy which I have explained. Thus, cold and damp applied to the feet may produce spasm, or even inflammation of the bowels, or sore throat, or bronchitis, according to the predisposition and condition of particular parts. Fourth, Inflammation may be excited by communication of action. If a part have its power diminished, its action ought to be lessened or moderated in the same degree; as there must, for the due performance of the action, always be a proportion of that to the power. Let us, for example, take a healthy finger, and call its action and its power both equal to twenty. If by cold or any other cause we sink the power or vitality of this to five, it can as yet only be said to be weakened, but not diseased, provided the action109 be no more than as five. ButAlie hand, and particularly the forearm, lias not been sunk to the same extent, though they may have been impaired. The hand may be sunk to ten, and the forearm may be, as at first, at twenty, or a very little below it. Now, we know that there is a sympathy of commu- nication existing, in virtue of which, action is spread more or less, and propagated from a part progressively, and this very soon, and before the power of the finger can rise much from its depression to five. The forearm acting nearly as twenty, communicates action to the hand, and raises it from ten to fifteen; and it again speedily raises the finger in its action fiom five to eight, whilst the power still remains only as five. It is plain, that thus there is the same effect produced as if a direct stimulus, say that of heat, had been applied to the finger, and inflammation takes place. It is not enough, therefore, in such a case, to avoid the application of heat to the part; we must also moderate the action of the neighbourhood, or keep it horn rising, without, however, doing any thing to sink fai ther the action of the part more immediately affected. I might carry on my illustration farther, but will be satisfied with recalling to the recollection of the reader, the case, not at all fanciful, of patients who, having suffered from con- cussion of the brain, have so far recovered and done well, whilst subjected from necessity to abstinence, and perhaps cold, but who have become delirious on having the action of the sys- tem merely so flu- increased as could be done by the sudden comfort of warm clothing, and a little hot soup. In many cases of this description, it is not only dangerous to give stimulants, but it may even be necessary to abstract blood. If the ear of a rabbit be exposed to the action of a freezing mix- ture, it becomes stiff, and even hard and livid, and the blood in the veins freezes. If removed, and no heat be applied, it gradually thaws; but it inflames more or less, becoming hot, and rather redder. The blood thaws and circulates, but it is not ascertained what proportion of blood may be frozen, and thawed, and circulate again without detriment. It is pro- bable that it is very little. Fifth, As the excitement of a pait by increase of a stimulus may be productive of such anno increase of action as shall alter its nature, or cause inflam- mation, so may the abstraction of a stimulus to a great degree so disorder the action as to lead to the very same result; and more particularly if the abstraction be accompanied with sen- sation, as in the case of cold, or if there be strong predispo- sition in any delicate organ, rfs we sometimes see in the case of haemorrhage. Variation of temperature then may act directly, by the immediate change it produces on the part, as well as through the medium of the sympathies already explained. There is a standard temperature of the body, but this may be affected even in the internal parts, and, we know, is constantly varying at the surface. The human body is at the centre usually about 98°. Now, an important question may be put, namely, What effect would be produced on the bronchia, by inhaling air greatly below zei'o—should painful sensation be produced, or the temperature of the lungs be diminished ? Judging from the effect of cold air in lrosty weather on a bronchial surface predisposed to disease, or peculiarly sensible, when, although the rest of the body have been well defended, cough, stifling, or sharp pain may be instantly caused, we should say that consequences both pain- ful and dangerous must result. But we find, from the testi- mony of all who have been in very cold climates, and amongst others from Captain Parry, that although the thermometer min-ht stand at 40° below zero, and a transition might be made instantly from a mild temperature within, to one 80° or 120° lower without, vet no injury was sustained by the lungs, noi any painful sensation produced. This may in pait be explained by the observation, that only about one-eighth of the air in the lungs is thrown out at each ordinary expira- tion, and consequently, seven-eighths of air, heated at least to 98°, remain to be mixed with the eighth of cold air. It also appears, that there is in a low temperature more heat evolved, and this evolution takes place as well in the lungs as elsewhere, whilst diminished exhalation will also carry off less heat. But the question next presents itself, namely, How the nostrils, larynx, &c. do not suffer from the extreme cold ? There is no doubt that even in this country they doIll often suffer, especially when formerly diseased or predisposed to disease; and hence we find it necessary to send many to a milder climate, and that with much more benefit than when the lungs are injured. But in very great cold, the tempera- ture of these cavities is modified by the warm air exhaled. It is difficult to say if the temperature of the thorax be always the same. I do not think it is. But it is certain that there is a great difference in the mouth. A thermometer held in the aii contained in the mouth moderately open, shall rise from 55°, the temperature of the air, to 75° in one person, and SO in another, in the same room. If we turn from this view to that of the effect of cold, externally applied, on the internal parts, we find that it is capable of varying the tem- perature considerably. It is not correct to say that there is an uniform standard of heat within, for this may be easily disproved. If we open the abdomen of a rabbit, and intro- duce a thermometer, we find its temperature to be 102°. The inside of the parietes is 100°; but if we retain the bulb there, and apply ice cooled perhaps to 10°, we find that the ther- mometer falls to 54°. If the animal be surrounded with ice, the temperature of the deeper parts of the abdomen may soon come down to 92°. Water at 125° applied to the surface of the parietes, whilst the bulb is in contact with the peritoneal surface, raises the mercury to 107°. If the animal cooled by ice, so as to have the cavity of the abdomen sunk to 92°, be then immersed in water at 152°, its heat quickly rises to 102°. An aperture was made on the right side of the thorax, and the bulb being introduced, the temperature was found to be 98°, which is lower than that of the healthy abdo- men. Ice was then applied for some time to the head and nape of the neck, and the temperature fell to 92°. On the ice being removed, it rose to 94°. The use of this lung, however, was from first to last, pro tempore in a great mea- sure suspended, and the experiment was only made on one animal, which soon appeared to be quite well, on having the external wound closed. These experiments show, that ice applied to the surface may really cool the deeper parts ; and indeed experience haslong proved, that men might have the skin frozen, and die internal parts apparently much cooled. But I particularly point out the evil which may follow from the continued application of ice to herniary tumours, when the intestine is vero-inff between life and death. O O Besides the sympathetic, and more indirect effects of cold, we find a powerful cause of inflammation to be the application of heat after exposure to great cold; for this seems to have, though moderate in its degree, the same consequences as if water, nearly at the boiling point, were applied to a sound part. This is well seen in the case of frostbit parts. Some animals, however, suffer less than others from this, lo a loop of the intestine of a rabbit ice was applied, so as to reduce its temperature to 34°. It became paler, stiffer, and the veins on the mesentery were filled with vermilion blood. The animal complained much when the ice was applied. 1 he intes- tine was replaced, and the internal wound closed. Next morn- ing the rabbit was quite well. Sixth, Inflammation may be produced by pain under certain circumstances. All kinds of pain, even when very intense, do not produce inflamma- tion, for pain does not always operate in the same way. In some cases it merely exhausts, in others it excites; great sen- sation must always weaken the part, and tend to exhaust the system; and in this state very slight causes may produce inflammation. Pain may also be conjoined with causes which directly debilitate the part, whilst it may itself not have con- tinued longer than to excite and cause inflammation, and in such a case the inflammation so produced occasions gicatei evil from the conjunct weakness of the part. In one sense, pain may be considered in the same light as those causes which act directly on a part, such as heat, acrid substances, &c. • and even when occasioned by the abstraction of a sti- mulus, as, for example, by cold, it is quite competent to derange action, and produce inflammation. If this view be correct, I need scarcely add, that in all cases of great pain affecting vital organs, we cannot be too anxious to have it relieved, and that without any regard to comfort, or to rapid exhaustion, but even if we confined our consideration to the113 secondary effect. It must also, in all cases of wounds, and after operations, be of the utmost consequence to allay pain. 13y attending to this rule, one patient shall speedily recover, and by its neglect, another, under circumstances apparently more favourable, shall perish. Seventh, Inflammation may be caused by division of parts. This is traumatic inflammation. In cases of contusion or straining, or other mechanical injury, inflam- mation is excited in one or other of the ways already noticed. In cases of division, the excitement given to the part may be quite sufficient to produce this action ; but without any such cause or original excitation, inflammation may take place, unless adhesion be accomplished. If we cut through the skin and cellular substance, or deeper, the wound produced, if its sides be not laid in contact and united, never remains as a raw and bleeding surface, but comes to granulate, and then is covered with skin. The orifices of the divided vessels first yield blood, and then an approximation is made toward restoration of texture. The vessels which deposited organic particles before, yield fibrin; those which secreted inter- stitial fluid have their secretion somewhat altered, and the union of the product forms one kind of pus. The sore is said to suppurate, the whole vessels yield a fluid, or the joint product is a fluid, and renovation never can cr0 on. JBut soon, the vessels alone which formed a deposite of organic matter reassume their office, and furnish organ- ized particles or granulations, whilst the interstitial vessels continue still to yield a fluid, called pus. This is different from the former process, and is called ulceration. It may in some instances, take place with little or no previous sup- puration. It is quite distinct from suppuration ; a different action altogether, and productive of very different results. n wound then heals either by adhesion or junction of its surface, or by ulceration. The first of these is speedy, and will be afterwards considered. The second is tardy and pro- gressive, and is said to be the result of inflammation. It has t eieoie been supposed, that inflammation was excited for t e sa utary purpose of effecting granulation, and was estab- ed in order to repair the injury, in consequence of the \114 part feeling the stimulus of imperfection ; and that indeed, in whatever way a wound healed, inflammation was requisite to the cure. Now, I wish to repeat what I have already said, that the terms adhesive and ulcerative inflammation are alto- gether wrong, inasmuch as these processes form no essential part of inflammation. They may follow, but do not attend it; at least no one, I think, will be able to maintain that sup- puration or ulceration is inflammation. Granulation or ulcer- ation is a natural effect of a vacuity, and is merely a modifi- cation of the ordinary function of nutrition, a modification pro- duced by the circumstances under which the part is placed; and it signifies nothing whether the vacuity, on the surface of which the action is going on, has been produced slowly by inflam- mation and suppuration, or abscess, or by the instant inflic- tion of an wound. It is the vacuity, and the vacuity alone which occasions the phenomena. No inflammation exists where it is established ; inflammation has then nothing to do with it, and could only injure or destroy it. Nay, I will go the length of maintaining, that although inflammation may, and very gene- rally does, precede this process, yet such precursion is by no means necessary to its establishment. The part does not gra- nulate because it has inflamed, but it inflames because it has been injured, and excited preternaturally in its action. It is not by any means proved that every wound inflames before it gra- nulates. The vessels may assume the granulating, ulcerating, or reproducing action, whichever name be chosen, without the intervention of inflammation. There may be a state of mere excitation, not of actual inflammation ; an increased activity, without the actual degree of disease called inflammation; a state resembling growth, as we see in the enlarging breasts and gravid uterus, neither of which organs are supposed to require previous inflammation. Every discussion depends on definition. We may so define a tea-chest as to include a book-case; but if we give a precise definition of a process according to its cognizable properties, we must say, that inflammation is one thing, and ulceration another; the one tends to destruction, the other to renovation; the one is pro- duced by any cause which can excite a certain disproportion115 of action compared to power, the other by no cause, except the formation of an unnatural vacuity. They are attended by different symptoms, influenced by different laws, and tend to opposite ends. I he wounded part does not inflame in older that it may heal, but as a consequence of injury and interference with its action ; and I can see nothing in the action of inflammation analogous to that of ulceration, nor essential to it, and therefore, although the one generally precede the other, and certainly be capable of acting as an exciting cause to the other, I can find no argument from theory, nor sup- poit from practice, to induce me to court the accession of inflammation; but, on the contrary, 1 find that all wounds thrive best which inflame least. Distention of a part, if unaccompanied with relaxation, is also a cause of inflammation in fibrous texture, and removing the tension sometimes removes the inflammation. It has somewhat hastily been said, that those who are of a full or sanguine habit are peculiarly predisposed to inflammation. .at plethora may produce, or be connected with a state of action which is at the very summit of the boundary of health and readily thrown over to the side of disease, is an established fact. But it is no less certain, that the spare, and ema- ciated, and worn out frames and organs of many, are pecu- liarly liable to inflammation ; and this is a fact which has by no means escaped the observation of various attentive practi- tioners. To refer this to idiosyncrasy, is to close the inquiry by saying, we know nothing about the matter. One oreat and insurmountable difficulty appears to me to have arisen from the erroneous opinion, that inflammation is always a disease of vigour, or, in the jargon of Brown, high excite- ment in a sthenic diathesis. The experience of every day ought to convince us, that our worst attacks occur in parts naturally weak, or in habits or organs artificially weakened. There is no female so exposed to inflammation of the uterus or peritonaeum as she who has suffered from severe uterine haemorrhage. No brain is so liable to inflammation as that W *ias keen concussed. No wounded man in such hazard ns he who has been first starved, and then stimulated. I have110 already, in pointing out the effect of communication of action, illustrated this point, and have only two remarks to offer ; the first is, that there is no degree of debility compatible with life, which is ever found to prevent inflammation, if an exciting cause be applied. The second is, that whenever an organ is by any cause sunk in its power and action below the rest, it is not only liable, from the circumstance already pointed out, to inflammation, but it even is necessary to take positive pre- cautions to prevent its accession. It will immediately be started as an objection, that we ought to have a state of debi- lity predisposing to inflammation, or that the most debili- tated ought to be most liable to inflammation. This is not fairly brought. The proposition was not general, that the universally weak were, in consequence of this debility, prone to inflammation, but it was, that inequality of debility gave a predisposition ; that whilst a debilitated system did not exempt from inflammation, a debilitated part or organ in a system was peculiarly liable to it. Whilst I adopt the position that the feeble not only are not exempted from inflammation, but often are peculiarly liable to it, I would farther explain, that there is a complicated con- dition of debility, arising from loss of blood, which, in a spe- cial manner, is attended with a proneness to this disease. We have an unnatural and excited state of the arterial system, produced by the efforts made to contract and accommodate itself to its diminished contents, and the effect of this ought to be proportionate to the rapidity and extent of the diminu- tion, and, consequently, of the effort required. This does produce a state of general excitement, marked by heat of the skin, and frequency of the pulse, which is often small, always weak, easily compressed, and either sharp or throbbing. It is not difficult to comprehend how this condition of the system should render local disease easily produced, or predispose to inflammation ; and when inflammation does occur, we are very much curbed in the use of one of the most powerful remedies employed for the removal of that disease.117 i SECTION NINTH. Ihe proximate cause of inflammation is still involved in much obscurity. We have seen, from the short enumeration of exciting causes, that this disease may be produced even by the subduction of a stimulus, that of heat, for instance, if another, that of sensation, were at the same time in operation. From attentive consideration of facts, it seems evident, that what- ever can produce a certain disproportion between action and power, or even greatly derange action, may induce inflam- mation. This is neither a simple, nor perhaps an uniform process, for one part of action may, in particular cases, be moie affected than the rest, so as to cause a modification ; but in many instances a new texture is formed, and a new consti- tution or action given to the organ, and no increase or varia- tion of any part, or of every part of its action, can constitute inflammation without this change. An inflamed part is a new organ, which, therefore, in one sense, may be called a parasite. As a comet in the solar system can neither be considered as a portion subjected to the strict and well cal- culated rules of that system, nor altogether absolved from them, and incapable of acting, or being acted on by the less enatic oibs, so the inflamed part, though, to a certain extent, regulated by its own laws, and acting as a distinct organ, has a mighty power on the system on the one hand, whilst on the other, it is strongly influenced by it. This inflamed part, if acutely and severely affected, and particularly if, from its original Connexions and importance, it be much influenced by the new and diseased state of the system, to which it may itself have given rise, seldom lives long, unless the inflam- matory action be subdued. But in other circumstances, it may not die quickly or mortify, neither may it indirectly become destroyed by suppuration, nor return to a state of health ; but the inflammatory action may continue as a state now natural to the part itself. I am sure I do some'service to the student by impressing this fact on his mind, and endea- 'oming to satisfy him, that inflammation is not uniformly t tat acute process which he at first believes it to be, but that118 even after long continuance, local, it not general evacuation, and the use of some internal remedies, afterwards to be noticed, may cure a disease that he considered as hopeless. I am not here to explain the connexion of the system with these local states, but rather to proceed to inquire into what the local state is. Having, in another work published long ago, entered fully into the detail of the former theories, from the time of the ancients downward, 1 shall be satisfied, in the present state of science, with merely mentioning, that the comparatively later doctrines of error loci, viscidity of blood, spasm of the extreme vessels, and augmentation ol the vessels, induced either by mere debility, according to Vacca, or by an act of dilatation, according to Mr. Hunter, can never explain the cause. The present opinion, so far as I know, is divided between the supposition, that increased action, or debility of the capillary vessels, is the proximate cause. The prevalent notion seems to be, that inflammation is produced by an increased action ot the trunk and larger branches, with a debilitated condition of the capillaries. Many eminent men have experimented on this subject; but Dr. Hastings has brought their doctrine, and his own, so far as debility is con- cerned, into a very short compass. He imagines that inflam- mation cannot exist without either great slowness, or total stagnation of the blood in the capillaries; and farther, that the blood itself loses its globular appearance, and is convei ted into a red homogeneous mass. When resolution, that is, recovery, takes place, the blood begins again to move, and becomes globular. Neither he nor any other author of the present day, I believe, deny more or less increased action to exist on the larger branches. The opinion thus formed by him, and also by Drs. Thomson, Wilson, &c. is founded on microscopical observation on the inflamed web of frogs’ feet, mesentery of rabbits, &c. I have made numerous experiments on this subject on different animals, and parts of the body, and with the most attentive observation, after applying various stimulants in the clearest light, and marking their effects at successive periods. First of all, I would remark, that by exciting the tunica conjunctiva of the eye, or the peritonealcoat of the intestine, we see the preliminary appearances of inflammation very distinctly. Not only do the branches of arteries, already visible and filled with red blood, enlarge, but the numerous ramifli which shoot out from these, and were not formerly observed, become red and distinct, and that decidedly from having rapidly increased in capacity. The number of these is considerable, but not actually so great as the first inspection would lead one to believe., Presently, the interstices between these distinct ramuli appear to have a blush, and very soon ve find theie a still smaller order of vessels becoming dis- tinct, and a minute network is formed, so that now the number ol red vessels is much increased; and if the action proceed, we can find effusion of blood take place from some of these small arteries. The coats are thickened, and the substance inter- vening between the distinct vessels is quite red, partly from minute vessels, and partly from infiltration of red fibrin, and perhaps serum. The same appearances, nearly, are seen by inflaming the web of a frog’s foot; and the next question is, V hat is the state of the blood in these vessels, and whether does it move faster or slower ? If we expose the web of the frog’s foot to the microscope, we see branches both of arteries and veins carrying red blood, and connected with numerous smaller vessels, which are pale, and transmit globules, which in a bright light, have a brilliant appearance, and some- what a golden colour; but no red fluid or red globules are seen in them. If the web be kept moist, and the speculum be made to act so as to throw heat as well as light on it, we find that the rapidity of the circulation is increased, then red blood finds its way into the pale capillaries, and in the same proportion the velocity decreases, till at length the motion seems to cease, and the web is covered with a stationary arbo- rescence of red vessels. If we apply a solution of salt to another web, where the vessels are large, distinct, and the circulation brisk, we find that, first, the velocity is increased, then it becomes slow generally, but by no means uniformly, first in the large branches, and then in the capillaries, and generally sooner in the arteries than the veins; and last of a > it seems to cease. Before it cease in any set of vessels,the blood passes along in jerks or pulsations, which become gradually less frequent, and then the motion is merely oscil- latory. The globules seem to run together, and the colour becomes deeper. It is not uncommon to find in one set of red vessels the circulation going on, whilst in another appa- rently deeper, it is languid or almost stopped. We also often see, that when it appears stagnant, blood passes off to other branches very slowly, and this leads to some renewed motion in the stagnant part. A stronger stimulus, as, for instance, spirit of hartshorn, stops the circulation more rapidly, and causes speedy injection of the capillaries. In all cases, we see sometimes a vessel containing stagnant blood, with an intermediate vacant space, the artery there being empty, which is a demonstration that the circulation in that vessel must have ceased. In some places, which are neither empty nor filled with red blood, we find an ash or bufF-coloured lymph, or we see a mass of red blood (I speak microscopi- cally) move on, and the artery above, which it has left, becomes filled with serum, having only one or two globules. It does not contract, but remains like a clear line or band, and is afterwards filled, but not always, without a break in the con- tinuity of red fluid. We also see, perhaps, a vessel sending slowly blood to capillaries, where it moves briskly, and on the very opposite side sending a branch where the blood is motion- less. Next, it is proper to inquire into the effect of similar agents on other parts, and we find, that by injecting solu- tion of salt under the skin of a frog, we inflame the skin and the muscle, but the former sooner than the latter. In both the vessels are distinct, but the blood moves, and is globular. To ascertain the effect of opening a vessel going to or from the inflamed spot, the web of the foot was first inflamed, and when the vessels seemed to be quiescent, a vein at the toe was punctured, when the blood in the branches going to it began to move, and distinctly appeared to be globular. If any one vessel of the inflamed part, the disease not ha\ ing gone to an extreme degree, were opened, blood flowed, and as it spread over the web, the globules wexe seen most easily, although not visible when in the vessel. This is similai to121 what is seen in the vessel itself sometimes; for when looking O at an artery filled with stagnant, and apparently homoge- neous blood without globules, we see the cloud begin to dis- solve as it were; and as it breaks down and moves along, globules reappear, and the denser and deeper coloured fluid, in the vessel behind this, begins to move forward. We may in other cases see a vessel with pale thin fluid, showing that it is contracted, and contains few globules, throwing its contents into a red vessel, where the thicker blood moves slowly. When the motion seems to be stopped, and the globular appearance is lost, both the one and the other may for a time be restored by the animal struggling, or by the speculum throwing heat on the web; other stimulants act much more slowly in this way. I might select from my notes expe- riments in a varied manner, which should fill many pages, for I have not inquired slightly into the subject, but I have given quite sufficient to corroborate the matter of fact stated by those who have published on this subject; and, so far as I have gone, I appear to confirm the opinion, that in inflam- mation the blood is stagnant in the capillaries, and loses its globular appearance. But notwithstanding this, I think I can point out a misconception. From the result that I have stated, of many experiments, it appears that the globules are not lost, but only so condensed that they cannot be detected; for whenever motion is excited, and the parts of the fluid more separated, or the blood allowed to flow from an opening, globules appear within a second of time. I admit, that in many cases no globules can thus be made to appear, but then no motion is excited, and the blood in most, if not in every case, is dead and coagulated. The other part of the opinion is, I suspect, no less a mistake. It would make the proximate cause of inflammation to consist in debility, or indeed total loss of action ot the capillaries or extreme vessels. Now, there are many facts which would make us pause before we adopted this. First, if it be the case that the evolution of be|it is dependant on the action of the extreme vessels, and not on the larger branches, it is evident that the capillaries 01 small arteries cannot be lessened in their action in inflam-122 mation, and it will only remain to be determined whether they be diminished in their power. If their power be dimi- nished, and the action also lessened, so must their functions be impaired. If the action be not diminished, the circulation ought to go on ; if it be diminished, the evolution of heat, &c. should be lessened, as well as the motion impeded. If the power alone be diminished, the circulation should continue at least as long as the power in any degree remained. Simple debility, then, of the capillaries, even with the aid of increased action of the branches, cannot explain the phenomena. Next, if the capillary arteries cannot carry on the blood into the capillary veins, it must either be from obstruction, arising from viscidity and error loci, as Boerhaave supposed, and as the modern pathologists admit to exist, or it must be from weak- ness. It cannot be from the former, for we know that heat, or sometimes cold, as, for instance, ice, or struggling, and in some instances stimulants, renew for a time the motion; but if these cease to act, the motion also ceases. Now the passage having been once opened up, and kept pervious for some time, it ought to continue till the cure were accomplished; or if suspended, a new effort should complete the recovery. It cannot be from mere debility, otherwise heat and all manner of stimulants should cure the disease; and as the struggle of the frocr renewed the circulation, so ought exercise in a man to cure inflammation, particularly if aided by wine. And if we call in the other part of the doctrine, namely, an increased action of the trunk or larger branches, we should, whatever the cause of stagnation were, get it overcome, and indeed should have no stagnation at all, unless the obstruction were greater in proportion than the increased action. Farther, if inflam- mation consist in stagnation of the blood in the capillaries, from debility or any other cause, and with or without increased action of the larger branches, it is evident, that if we be correct in our notion, that a change of blood and circulation of blood be necessary to the existence of a part, the inflamed part must very soon die; and long before death, indeed almost immediately on the induction of inflammation, ought to be in a state of torpor and insensibility. If we tie the/ 123 vein of a frog’s thigh, we sometimes produce no decided effect on the web, but in other cases render the capillary veins there very turgid, and soon the capillary arteries participate, but no inflammation necessarily takes place. I have known the animal die after the operation, but not from sloughing or disease of the web. Again, the exciting causes of inflamma- tion are of such a nature as directly excite, or materially alter the action of the part, and in many cases do operate more quickly than we could suppose compatible with the produc- tion of debility. We see this in the case of irritation of the eye, and the application of hot water to the skin. We also find, that even during the continued action of the stimulant, a blister for instance, and which seems still to be excitino- and not O wearing out the part, the capillary circulation not only goes on, and the heat is evolved, but a copious secretion of serum under the cuticle is produced. We also must avoid confound- ing the direct action of some stimulantsion the vessels, with the necessary consequences of inflammation. Strong hartshorn at once stops the circulation, and so will a hot iron ; but this is so evidently independent of inflammation, that if other exciting causes of inflammation did not appear more or less rapidly to stop the motion also, no stress could be laid on the experiment. Ihese, and many ocher circumstances would lead us to demur as to the doctrine of capillary debility, and perfect stagnation of the blood; and if we proceed to experiment, we shall be still farther inclined to dispute the theory. If we apply the fino-er to the skin when affected with erysipelas, or the mucous mem- brane ol the mouth when the cheek is inflamed, we press out the blood easily from the part, and on removing the finger the surface is pale, or of its natural colour; but in an instant the blood flows, not only from the circumference of the spot, but up from the subjacent parts, and the vessels are again filled. They are filled from the other capillaries in a moment, which could not be if these capillaries had lost their power of pro- pelling blood. If we press a piece of intestine, beginning to be inflamed, between the fingers and thumb, we empty the vessels, but they immediately fill again. If, however, we wait till inflammation have become perfect and high, I admit we »cannot make the part pale by pressure; for even if we could empty the very minute vessels which now contain red blood, which it would be difficult to do by any pressure, we could not remove the infiltration. But still at this confirmed stage we can press the blood out of the distinct arborescent vessels, which instantly fill again. At the highest degree we find the membrane altogether red, fleshy-]ooking, and rough, but soft, as if covered with small granulations, and the folds which are in contact adhere. We can make no more impression in this state on the colour, than we can on a piece of muscle; we may make the tint lighter, but that is all. It is not neces- sary, in order to prove that the capillary circulation does, or can go on, that we be able by pressure to make these vessels empty. I question if we can thus, during the natural state of the circulation in the thin web of the frog’s foot, empty the capillaries, even by a pressure which would destroy the part. If we insert a blowpipe into the iliac artery, when the web is inflamed, and the blood apparently motionless, air passes by other vessels, and is extricated under the cuticle of the web. II we employ mercury, it does not flow into the vessels where the blood is stagnant, but it finds its way into other vessels not well seen before. If we proceed farther, and inquire whether there may not be a fallacy in our microscopic experi- ments which seem to establish the existence of stagnation in the capillaries, I believe we shall more than doubt their accu- racy. For I must, after having brought forward those which appear to corroborate the doctrine, next state that I have been able, though not in every instance, to detect, when I thought the motion had universally ceased, a set of vessels still carrying on circulation. I have seen this in the web of the frog, where a deeper set of small vessels seemed to be conveying blood, when the more superficial and distinct were motionless. If the inflamed intestine of a rabbit be spread out under the microscope, we still see a set of vessels in which the blood moves. Indeed, a total stagnation of the blood seems incom- patible with the existence of the part for any length of time; but a retarded motion does assuredly exist in at least a very considerable proportion of the extreme vessels. This, how-1 <25 ever, is no proot that debility is the proximate cause of inflam- mation, or even that debility of the capillaries actually exists. A great error, I apprehend, has been committed in assigning too much to the arteries, and too little to the nerves. Let us attend to the exciting causes, and the phenomena of inflamma- tion, and we must come to the conclusion that the action is both increased and altered, and the chief agents in these changes aie the neives, the arteries performing a secondary part. A faither mistake has been made by confounding increased action, with increased contraction of the arteries. Stimulants 01 excitation, it is said, should make the artery contract, and, therefore, in increased action, we should have the vessel less capable of admitting blood, for the tube is smaller. Now, this is a fallacy arising from confounding two different states. I have stated the appearance on applying ice, &c. which con- tract the vessels, and make the fluid pale, and the globules few. But saline solutions, heat, &c. have not this effect, for the vessels dilate, and receive more globules, and the circula- tion is at this time rapid. Increased action may manifest itself m different ways, according to the peculiarity of the increase. Dilatation may be an effect of increased action. Do not the capillaries dilate in blushing, or by the applica- tion of heat, and yet who will say that they are debilitated ? Do not the capillaries of the mucous follicles enlarge in the act of secretion, and who will say they are then weakened ? The point then to be laid hold of by the advocates for debility, must be the slow motion of the blood; but slow motion is no proof of diminished action. It is even not proved that in any one instance of increased action, be it of a gland or any other oigan, is the capillary circulation increased in rapidity, and not rather retarded. Viewing the nerves as the chief agents, and the more immediate seat of inflammation, and producing the various changes in the texture, in the condition of the vessels, and of the blood, I can see no necessary connexion etween increased action of an inflamed part, and increased lapidity of circulation. I have already said that the part is a new organ, and it has its own laws, and appears to have its own mode of circulation ; but that mode is no proof of debilityor of diminished action in the vessels, for the two must be con- nected according to the theory. The increased action is mani- fested, not by rapid motion, but by enlargement of canal, and activity of other parts of the function. When we put the theory of diminished action, or stagnation in the capillaries to the test of accordance with the best methodus medendi, we find that it cannot stand. The effects of bleeding may be claimed by both friend and foe, as supporting opposite opinions, but it is quite impossible for the advocates of increased action to reconcile their theory with the supposed good effects of stimulants in active inflammation. The supporters of diminished action, on the other hand, triumph in the power of their remedies, and tell us, that turpentine, heat, wine, spirits, &c. applied to the inflamed foot of a frog, renew the motion, and cure the disease. I feel entitled to say, that in numerous and repeated experi- ments, this did not happen. If the blood moved slowly, or even had stopped in some vessels, the heat of the speculum made it for a time move, or the struggle of the animal made it do so more effectually. But the effect was transient, and that of spirits, laudanum, turpentine, &c. often very little, if any at all; and in no case do we find that these do produce the same rapid effect of quickening the circulation that they do in health; and often when the inflammation is decided, they have no effect at all. Turning from these experiments, which are so very little in favour of the theory, that were I a sup- porter of it, I should hesitate to admit them into my argu- ment, I proceed to the conclusion, that if we are to consider the best remedy to be that which most effectually renews, at least for a time, the motion of the blood, I know of none better than struggling, and am quite content to rest the truth of the theory of diminished capillary action, on the conse- quences of moving an inflamed part, and will indeed have little objection to rest it also on the result of mere stimulat- ing applications to the inflamed part. I have heard of an inflamed foot being made worse, but never of being cured by dancing. Were inflammation to consist in either debility or mere increased action of the capillaries, or in any other simple state which fancy could fix upon, it ought always to be curedby a remedy which could induce an opposite condition. But inflammation is not a simple process, nor an elevation or depression of action. It is a new state altogether, yet a state blended and connected in its acute stage with that of increased action, only to be removed by lessening action in one and in every part of the inflamed organ. Of the peculiar nature of the action we know little, and I fear have, in the present state of science, no prospect of knowing more. To call it a peculiar and new action, originating from an excitation of the natural one, but, when perfected, consisting in one quite distinct from it, distinct in its performance or phenomena, distinct as viewed in relation to the general action of the system, and distinct in the organization to which it leads, and with which it is con- nected; to call it thus, or to exclude it from the action of health by a still stricter line of demarcation, would be indeed to give but a poor description of the condition of inflamma- tion, and its proximate cause. But I cannot go, and I know not any who has gone farther, than merely to say that it is an action altogether new, in a part where organization is soon made altogether new, and that this action, in its acute and exquisite form, is greater than in the natural proportion to the power of the part; but the disproportion varies much in degiee in different cases. And farther, it is evident that the action may remain long in a higher or lower degree, and yet not go beyond the power of the part, so that inflammatory action in the abstract cannot be defined to be necessarily an acute and short-lived process, for it may exist without any essential change beyond that early effected, for many weeks, if not for mondis. Without proceeding to inquire into the different theories of inflammation, from the ancients downward, which I have in former dissertations discussed, and which may partly be found copied into Mr. Cooper’s very useful Dictionary, I con- clude this section by noticing a speculation, which has become rather popular since the time of Dr. Cullen and Mr. Hunter. It has long been said that this process was the production of the vis medicatrix nature, and more lately the language has een a little changed, but the idea preserved that it is the128 effect of wise counsels, and is a salutary and necessary con- trivance of nature for repairing an injury, or preventing a greater evil. Setting aside all ambiguity, it has been, and still is looked on as a process of preservation. It is cpiite the contrary; it is a process of imperfection and destruction. We are told that if an injured part do not inflame, it must perish ; that inflammation repairs the damage, and is a mean of carrying on life, which otherwise must be lost. Nature sets to work, it is said, and by inflammation repairs the damage. This is just as philosophical as to tell us, that when a man falls into the water, he sets about getting himself wet. He gets wet as a matter of necessity, and from the same neces- sity he sets about feeling pain after burning his fingers. In plain English, these are all regular effects of their causes, without any relation to the purposes which they may serve; and the doctrine I am controverting is, to say the very least, a most unphilosophical confounding of final and efficient causes; an attribution to moral, of the effect of physical causes. The accession or existence of inflammation is indeed an evidence that life is not destroyed, but it is an evidence of nothing more. It is only desirable, inasmuch as any action is better than no action at all; and as its presence shows that the part is capable of living, but it would be still better if it returned at once to health. It is a necessary consequence of a certain degree of injury, rather than a cause of recovery. The part inflames because it does not die, instead of not dying because it inflames. If its continuity be destroyed, it must either adhere, or perish, or inflame. Now', this is not a mere matter of speculation, but one of practical importance; for it clearly follows, that if inflammation be a sanative process, it ought to be encouraged in all serious injuries, and if it be not, it ought to be shunned. We are also taught, that there are various kinds of inflammation, fitted to repair different kinds of injury. We have the adhesive inflammation, the suppu- rative, and the ulcerative. These are not peculiarities of the action itself, but effects; not adjuncts, but sequences; and we may as well make various kinds of intoxication, according to the different evils and disasters resulting from it. We ini 129 both cases confound the effect with the cause, just as if we called poverty by the name of improvidence. They are alto- gether new and distinct actions essentially different from inflammation, but capable of being excited by it. Capable also, I believe, perhaps, of being produced without it. SECTION TENTH. The treatment of inflammation must consist in the appli- cation of those means which restore the natural action of the part. But the student will ask bow this is to be done; and when he consults authors, he shall find indications laid down in a phraseology accordant with their theories. One sajs attenuate the blood, another, relax spasm, or remove obstruction, or excite the vessels to contract, or lessen their excitement. I will make two remarks in the outset, which may be of service to him. The first is, that inflammation is not a simple exaltation of excitement, or a mere increase of action by the agency of a stimulus, otherwise no case ought to resist the lancet; and if there be any truth in the Brown- ' oman reveries, no inflammation left to itself, or to an old woman and water gruel, ought to prove fatal; for indirect debility ought in due time to bring down the excitement to par, and if it sunk below that, it was no fault of the inflam- mation. It were little better than fighting a phantom to argue on this point; but there are more fantasies than one to contend with, if we admit inflammation to be a simple process, depend- ant on any alteration whatever in mere degree of action. It is an entire change of action, a new state formerly unknown to the system, and, as yet, obscure to those who profess to be tutors and rectifiers of the system. We know this much, that it may be excited by whatever can excite the action of a part much beyond the natural degree; but we also know that it is not merely a high performance of the natural and healthy action. We also know that it can be produced directly 01 indirectly, even by causes which seem to consist in the subduction of natural stimuli. We have every reason to believe, that it is so far unconnected with excess or defi- ciency of direct excitement, as to consist in a state entirely K130 new, and which as yet we have no means of directly destroy- ing. Indirectly, we may do some good by means which lessen action in general, and which obviate particular effects or manifestations; but beyond this, the present state of science, I regret to say, does not carry us. The second remark is almost a corollary from the first, namely, that no inflammation can, by any means whatever, be immediately cured; and some, as expe- rience unfortunately testifies, resist the early and judicious use of every means. I have already noticed a preliminary state leading to, but not constituting inflammation, which may last longer or shorter in different instances, and which often may speedily be checked by proper remedies. But if the action be once established, I can, whilst I admit that early and vigorous means may cui’e it, see no more reason, from the consideration of the case on its own ground, why the means should succeed, than why they should fail; and start- ling as the acknowledgment may be to those who place more reliance on a name than on the thing itself, or on a doctrine than on experience, I must say, that considering how little we know, the wonder is not that any patient dies, but that so many recover. It were to little purpose to express this opi- nion, if it did not lead others to inquire more carefully into the minute nature of different diseased actions, and particu- larly of inflammation, for the purpose of acquiring a better knowledge of the method of cure; and I only add, that till that be obtained, no man is exonerated from the prompt and diligent use of such means as he possesses. It is a question, of somewhat more than mere curiosity, to determine why, under the same treatment, and by the appli- cation of the same rules and principles, one man shall die, and another recover; and why one man shall be cured in twenty- four hours, and another not for as many days. If inflamma- tion be a mere increase of action, and depletion a certain mean of diminishing action, we shall be brought back to the old question of the panegyrist of sage, Cur monatur homo, cui salvia crescit in hortu f Surely, in both cases, the fault must either be in the doctor or the remedy. We may, by a gal- vanic battery, decompose and new arrange the most obdurate131 substances, and by experience can foretell the changes, but in medicine we have no such battery. We are obliged to lay hold of the different parts of an action which can be discov- ered by their effects, and endeavour to counteract them piece- meal, by such agents as produce opposite effects. To attack a disease merely by attacking its symptoms, may appear to many to be but a shabby way of practising the noble art of physic, but it is in almost every instance the only way we have of making an attack at all. Fiom a consideration of the causes and phenomena of inflam- mation, of the state of the nerves and the blood-vessels, we should expect much benefit from bloodletting, and indeed those who have neglected this, have had little reason to congratulate themselves on their judgment. There are two modes of taking blood, topical and general; and if we confined our considera- tion merely to the immediate effect of the direct exciting cause on the pai t itself, we should say, that could we always obtain blood from the part itself, or its immediate neighbourhood, we should have no occasion for general depletion. But this is a mistake; for the inflamed organ very seldom remains as an insulated and independent part. It may be an effect of the state of the system, rather than a cause of general disease, or it may almost from the first be so associated with remote or general disorder, as to be no longer independent, or acted on by remedies merely local. The very change it has pos- sibly produced already, on the state of the origin of the nerves supplying it, may be quite sufficient to keep up the disease now in the part itself, in spite of all local remedies. Even when no general disease or fever manifests itself, this affection of the origins of the nerves may exist, and the disease bid defiance to topical applications; or the sensibility and delicacy of the organ may be such as to require general depletion, perhaps even to a great extent. This is sometimes the case in inflammation of the eye. We therefore should be alto- gether wrong in laying it down as a rule to open a vein only when the general system sympathized, and to trust to local depletion when the manifestation was only local. Besides, in many cases we cannot get blood from the part affected; and132 therefore, even with the view of acting on it, must be content to act through the medium of the vascular system at large. Two powerful means of arresting inflammation, are general and topical bloodletting; and although there be cases where the latter is the most useful, yet, in a vast proportion, the former is most to be depended on, and the latter chiefly to be employed as a subsidiary measure. Before considering the modus operandi of loss of blood, or the circumstances which ought to regulate the extent of deple- tion, I will premise two remarks. First, That in the cure of most diseases it is nature that effects the restoration, and remedies only remove obstacles. It is by lessening or weak- ening the morbid action that we allow the healthy action to return, and this is often done by the sympathy of communi- cation, already explained, effecting a reflux, if I may use the expression, of natural action from the sound, or more slightly affected part of the body, to the diseased part, and re-estab- lishing a more healthy action in it. Merely diminishing action or excitement, which is all that some think necessary for the cure of inflammation, can only lessen, but not change the action, and therefore I repeat it, that our remedies only cure indirectly, by permitting and enabling nature to act; and even at the hazard of being taxed with repetition, I once more earnestly call on the student to reflect on the importance of early interference, and decided means, before the disease have taken too firm root, to be removed. It is evident, how- ever, that if, in our attempts to moderate or lessen the degree or intensity of the morbid action, we shall go so far as to sub- due the vigour of the system in general, and produce much debility, it will be nearly as impossible for this restoration to be effected, as for a person, enfeebled and exhausted by pro- longed efforts to prevent himself from drowning, to mount at last the cliff he has struggled to reach. Could we lessen the action of the inflamed part, and at a certain stage increase the vigour and natural action of the system, we should save many who are lost for want of this power. It necessarily follows from this remark, that whatever treatment we follow, must be preceded by the removal, as fin- as possible, of the133 exciting cause, and checking its farther operation. So long as a particle of sand remains in the eye, or an extraneous substance in an wound, or the surface of an wound be kept separate, or a part be still in an unnatural state, inflammation can neither be prevented or cured. The second remark is, that bleeding ad deliquium animi does no good, in so far as deliquium is concerned. Fainting may suspend action, but does not alter it; and when the system recruits, every part returns to its former state. II the evacuation have been great, and the change consequently considerable in the capacity of the arteries, fainting, by suspending the action for a few minutes, may possibly aid the general effect. But, on the other hand, as it often prevents us from taking so much blood away as we find to be necessary, it is as likely to be hurtful as useful; and, in point of fact, we do find that few patients are benefited by it. All ought to be cured, if inflammation were a mere increase of action and excitement. It is difficult, but nevertheless desirable, to ascertain the modus operandi of bloodletting. This, I apprehend, is' not simple, but comprehends several effects. It takes away a positive and direct stimulus, both in quality and quantity, particularly and most immediately in quantity. No stimulus is so important or so requisite, and therefore none in their variations can effect such changes. Heat is next to this, but by no means equal to it. In this point of view, no medicine, that we know of at present, can act in the same way, or super- sede the use of the lancet. Another effect is, that the capa- city of the artery must immediately accommodate itself to the diminished quantity of blood, and this is productive of instant contraction. A sudden alteration even in the mechanical action ,of an artery, may produce a change in its functional or morbid action; and therefore, this instant contraction of the vessels may go far to destroy or alter the inflammatory action itself. This also is an effect which we cannot produce by any other cause known at present than the lancet. The action of a part, whether healthy or diseased, is not to be considered as simple, or merely comprehending one act or function, but many. The circulation is only one part of the134 action, but deviations in this, may affect the sensation, and operation of the nerves, and all the other constituents of the action of a part, on the principle of the sympathy of associa- tion. This is another effect of bleeding, which we cannot as yet produce by other means. Contraction in the arterial system is a positive act, implying power or activity, and if instantly produced, implies instant and sudden activity. By association, the absorbent system is brought often into a similar state of activity thereby, and rapid absorption from the diseased part is excited; nay, even the whole absorbent system is sometimes thus excited, and serum taken up. It has been found, in a person freely bled, that there has been a greater proportion of fluid in the last than in the first cup, although only a few minutes could have intervened between their flowing. Contraction of the arterial system may, how- ever, be carried too far; and the very effort to contract, to the degree necessary in great or repeated evacuations, must soon prove an excitement to the vascular and nei’vous system. Hence we find, that when no disease previously existed, as in wounds of large arteries, or uterine haemorrhage, a state approaching to fever may be produced by loss of blood. And it is no less certain, that too copious evacuation, in the treat- ment of inflammation, must produce a state of the vessels capable of exciting the system, and thereby retarding the recovery of the patient. Connected with this subject, I would observe, that it is not improbable that this rapid contraction, exciting the vessels, hastens the appearance of the buffy coat. If, for instance, we bleed early, and before the pulse have become much affected, and the local disease be not very con- siderable, no buff may appear on the blood; but we find immediately that the pulse becomes quicker, and if we bleed ' again in an hour or two, the blood is very sizy. This, doubt- less, may be from the progress of the disease not having been arrested; but it also, in all probability, is aided by the state of the vessels, produced by a full bleeding. I have as yet con- fined my view of the effect of venesection to the consequences produced on the diseased action ; but I add, that it often acts chiefly by taking away the exciting cause. I have stated my135 opinion, that this cause is often resident in the state of the origin of the nerves supplying the part, and no remedy is more powerful in removing this than bloodletting. Many cases of local inflammation are cured, not by depletion acting on the part affected, but on the medulla spinalis or oblongata, and never could be cured by topical remedies. These effects cannot be otherwise than weakening, and can only prove salutary, and ultimately increase strength, by removing some cause of disease or disorder. Some constitutions are more readily affected by loss of blood than others; and when this is previously known, it will prevent us from taking away blood without the most urgent cause. Some are so languid and sunk after being bled or cupped, that they are long of reco- vering their vigour. Particular periods of life are also sup- posed to render evacuation more hazardous; as, for instance, early infancy or old age. In both of these cases, when we bleed, we should do it as soon as possible, and take no more than is necessary. Detiaction of blood, then, operates in two different ways. It diiectly lessens a stimulus or excitement of the nervous system, both generally and locally, and therefore acts on the inflamed part, on the sensorium commune, or origin of the nerves, and on the system ; and thus, in so far as the abstrac- tion of a stimulus goes, it ought to diminish action of that kind to which inflammation belongs. Next, it acts on the vascular system itself, producing evidently a change in its , capacity, which cannot be effected without a greater or less alteration in its mode of acting. This may, in the first instance, interfere with the performance or continuance of the inflammatory action, and therefore prove beneficial. But if pushed farther, it may cause injurious excitation. Takino- a different view of the matter, we would say, that the loss of blood, by lessening the local action, lessens in so far that which keeps up the general disorder; and, on the other hand, it also, by lessening the general disorder, and diminishing the force and activity of the circulation, lessens the reaction of the system, both vascular and nervous, on the local disease, and contributes to its removal.136 Topical bleeding is useful in inflammation, when it can be employed, but it acts more on the organ than the system ; and accordingly, when the local disease has become distinctly or strongly associated with constitutional action or fever, this is rarely, if ever effectual. It acts slowly, compared to the lancet; and therefore, whilst, if long continued, it may debi- litate and do mischief, it can seldom do much good in checking fever or general action. As the evacuation takes place slowly, especially when leeches are used, we should, now that the circulation of the blood is understood, and the free commu- nication of vessels admitted, be inclined from reasoning to say, that it could in few cases do any good. For, as fast as the small vessel emptied, it should be filled, and neither con- traction, nor any of the other effects above noticed, should take place. But experience militates against this opinion, and a little attention will explain the principles. The origin of circulation is pressure, and the effect of pressure must be proportioned to the resistance. This may be so great as to balance the force, and the fluid will remain quiescent in any tube. Open the end of that tube, so as to take off all resistance from that part, and the velocity, and quantity thrown out in a given time, may be easily calculated from the pressure, and the size of the tube, and its oiifice. The pressure being the same, both will vary according to the size of the orifice. No hydraulic calculation, however, can be accu- rately or regularly applied to the arteries; because, whilst they are not exempted from the principles of mechanical philosophy, they also are influenced by vitality, and the diminution of lesist- ance augments, in a greatly increased ratio, the vital conti ac- tion. This is nowhere so remarkably seen as in parturition, where the speedy relaxation of the os uteri excites the uterine contraction in a most powerful degree. The same principle ought to hold true in other parts of the animal frame. Divid- ing any vessel, by removing, except in so far as atmospheric pressure is concerned, all resistance to the vis a tergo, does mechanically produce increased motion. In a metallic tube, it would produce motion where none existed before ; or if we enlarged there the orifice, we should augment the Aelocity in137 the tube, and we cannot do less in the arteries. Hence, in the arteries, this removal or diminution of resistance will produce an increased contraction. This point has long been ascer- tained by Haller, and other physiologists, who observed, that it the circulation were languid, or even had ceased in the vessels not yet quite dead, making an aperture in any vessel restores the motion of the blood, the contraction pressing it, even in unfavourable directions, along the adjacent vessels. Topical bloodletting, then, ought to conti’act the vessels which are opened, and those of a certain order directly communi- cating with them; and, farther, will by sympathy exert an influence on those which are in the vicinity. But the influ- ence on the capillaries is limited. There is still another way in which this evacuation may prove useful, and that i» by the orifices assuming a kind of secreting action, which is incom- patible with that of inflammation, and not merely ceasing to be inflamed themselves, but sympathetically tending to lessen that state in others. .To ascertain the effect, on the capillaries, of dividing a vessel in the inflamed part, I opened a large vessel belonging to a frog’s web, where the blood on all the inflamed surface seemed to be stagnant, and without globules. Blood with globules immediately flowed from the orifice, but the motion excited in the other vessels was very limited. If we puncture a small vessel where the motion has ceased, a little globular blood flows out, and the vessel becomes empty, and in many cases does not seem to be filled again. If we press on the others, more fluid flows out, sometimes of a red, sometimes of a brown colour. If the blood have coagulated, none flows, nor can it be easily pressed out. We cannot empty the small vessels, and still less the capillaries of an inflamed part, by dividing either the arteries or veins. This may be seen by cutting the mesenteric vessels of an inflamed intestine. It becomes paler, and has less blood in it, but still it is much redder than naturally, and retains its inflamed appearance. If we cut off the inflamed foot of a frog, its vessels remain filled with blood, and even a small exhausting syringe applied to the cut surface does not empty them. It increases the motion, but138 I cannot determine whether by suction or by the mere moving of the foot by the syringe. These facts show, that topical bleed- ing cannot have so great an influence on the blood in the part as might be supposed ; and when we consider farther the intimate change of texture in the highly vascular part, we cannot be surprised that it should often fail. Still it has an effect, as we see every day, though not to the extent which could be wished. We see the effect of copious topical evacuation, when incisions are made into an erysipelatous part, which sometimes produce speedy relief, both by the evacuation, and partly perhaps by their mechanical effect in slackening the distended skin. I have mentioned in what cases topical bleeding cannot be trusted to alone, and in other cases, it is obvious that it cannot be applied. Where it can, it is a valuable aid. - Blood is abstracted topically, either by leeches, or cupping. The first mode is more slow than the second, but it is attended with less direct irritation, and in some instances can be used when the second cannot. Cupping acts quickly, and in general we get more blood, but it cannot be used in those inflammations where the pneumatic or mechanical effect of the cup would give much pain, or when the inflamed substance is very near the surface. It is useful, for instance, in inflam- mation of deep joints, as the hip or shoulder, but not in the elbow or ankle. It is useful in intercostal or pleuritic inflam- mation, but not in that of the testicle, mamma;, &c. Circum- stances, in general pretty evident, may direct, then, which of the modes is to be adopted. The practice of making incisions of greater or less extent and depth, has been often found useful in cutaneous or subcutaneous inflammation, when we can disburden, without thereby exciting and exasperating, the diseased part. But this is, for the very reason alluded to, not applicable to phlegmon, or inflammation, extending deeply into the subjacent parts. From what has been said, it will appear, that in many in- stances, general and topical bleeding may be conjoined, and that in the progress of the complaint, or its wane, the latter may be useful, although in the commencement it would have139 proved inadequate. When the inflamed organ is near the sur- face, and the constitution little or not at all affected, show- ing that the medulla spinalis has not materially participated, and especially if the part be small, and not peculiarly sensible, topical is much more effectual than general bleeding, and cures at less expense of strength. A sprained wrist or thumb may be relieved by leeches, without detriment; whereas general evacuation, before it could operate to the same extent on the part, must reduce the system at large to a great degree. It is, besides, bringing a fire engine to extinguish a candle. We can bleed freely from a part under circumstances where we could not take much blood from a vein ; and the topical evacuation often entirely removes that disease, which would otherwise only appear to be subdued, but which would really at some future time manifest itself in the formation of a new growth. No remedy is so powerful as bloodletting; and therefore it ought seldom to be neglected, but as it is also capable of doing much harm, it must be employed with prudence. It is well known that certain constitutions and ages bear eva- cuation better than others; and some inflammations bear it also better. In almost every case, however, of simple inflam- mation, it maybe resorted to; but in delicate habits, and inflam- mation of delicate parts, we are to bleed early, and not too long. Many may be saved by using the lancet within a few houis after the attack, who should be lost by it afterwards. Theie is perhaps no case that may not be benefited by the piompt use of the lancet; and this is peculiarly true of those cases, which soon become doubtful. We can, then, seldom bleed too early, and are seldom wrong when we do bleed early. On the other hand, if, in a case decidedly requiring the lancet, it have unduly been delayed, and the inflammation have gone on nearly to gangrene or to suppuration, the lancet can then do no good, but will only sink the patient sooner. It cannot cure the inflammation, nor the gangrene, nor the suppuration, and therefore in no view is it proper. There is one excep- tion to this rule, however, in inflammation of the lungs; for although the lancet have been too long neglected there, itstill may do good by lessening the quantity of fluid, and relieving the breathing, but it ought not to be pushed far at this time. In inflammation of the bowels, again, if we do not bleed early, we had better not bleed at all. It appears to me, after much observation, that many err in pushing evacuation too far in such a case. They bleed once and again; and finding the disease still increase, they go on, and one patient after another dies, without any variation in the practice. From all that I can see, repeated evacuations for the same attack of peritoneal inflammation are not only useless, but fatal. Let us bleed at the first moment, and do it freely, and repeat it soon ; but if this second, or at most a third bleeding, make no impression, I have little hope of good coming from the farther depletion. I would scruple much at taking blood a fourth time under such circumstances. It may be said that there have been cases where no relief was obtained, till a great quantity of blood had been taken, and that if this practice be not followed, we have nothing for it but to let the patient die. As to the first part of the argument, I suspect it will not often be found true; certainly not so often as to warrant any justi- fication of the practice; and as to the second, I believe I may say, that he shall die sooner if bled copiously, than if the evacuation be made more prudently. Whenever we find that bloodletting does not produce, at the time of the evacuation, and for at least a short period after it, a mitigation of the pain, or other symptoms, we may be sure either that we have not bled enough, or are bleeding too much. We know it to be the first of these cases by the early period of the disease, and the comparatively small quantity of blood taken, or the improper way in which it has been taken; and we judge it to be the second, if the period be advanced, and the patient have been already bled freely. I wish, and I know not how to express the wish too strongly, that practitioners would, in inflamma- tion, especially of delicate parts, bleed early, and not too long. It ought to be remembered that bloodletting is a remedy, but not an infallible one ; and that wherever we cease to do good with it, we begin to do harm, and the evil will be in propor- tion to the very supposed urgency of the case. According to141 the extent and rapidity of the danger from inflammation of the part, will be the evil resulting from carrying evacuation beyond the due limits. In pleurisy, we may go a step too far with much more impunity, than in enteritis. But in old and delicate people the same result takes place; perhaps less evacu- ation could not have saved them, for I have tried both plans. So long as we mitigate the symptoms, we are in general safe in repeating the evacuation on every exacerbation. In the commencement we bleed, if need be, at short intervals, and in such quantity at a time, as gives relief. But as the disease advances, we must not only be more sparing in the quantity, but also more scrupulous as to the intervals; nor are we to repeat an evacuation, if the last bleeding have either produced no relief, or only a momentary abatement of the symptoms, for then we only sink the patient. I would proceed to give more specific rules, did I not know that this would only add to the risk of their being misapplied; and that he who is not able to profit by a general rule or principle, is still less to be trusted with a special order, unless that also be given at the moment for a special case. So far as it can be done, it will be attempted in considering particular accidents and diseases. In determining on the propriety of pushing the lancet * farther, we must not be guided by one symptom alone, but by all. 1 he pulse is often most attended to, and yet in many circumstances it is least to be trusted. After copious evacua- tion, the pulse must, from causes I have noticed, become fre- quent; and very often without any inflammation, it becomes sharp, and the skin is hot. If then we attended to the fre- quency of the pulse alone, and its sharpness, as it has been called, we should be attempting to cure by bleeding, that very state which bleeding had produced. I fear many young practitioners fall into this error, and keep up by depletion an unnatural and excited state of the system, which should otherwise have soon subsided. This not only may directly injure the inflamed part, but, by weakening the system unnecessarily, it diminishes the power of recovery, or lays the foundation of other diseases. The state produced by this142 condition of the vascular system is sometimes simple excite- ment, sometimes that species of it which may be called irrita- tion ; and it has been already noticed, that certain degrees of inflammation in particular organs, seem to produce a state of the system which cannot be called pure fever, or at least synocha, but a combination of fever and irritation, marked by more restless uneasiness of body, and teazing sensation, and irritability of mind, than we should expect from the degree of fever, or the severity of the local inflammation. This irritation, however, is very injurious, and soon occasions more fever, and in certain cases it is attended by shivering, although no suppuration be going on. When this state is not produced by bloodletting, but occurs early in the disease, it is generally greatly mitigated, and often almost instantly removed by the loss of blood. But when it comes on in the progress of the disease, and after depletion, we shall generally succeed best by removing all additional sources of irritation, such as indurated faeces, by preserving in a due state the action of the alimentary canal, and by the exhibition of opiates combined with diaphoretics, such as Dover’s powder. Finally, with regard to bloodletting, let it be remembered that it can do very little good, so long as any exciting cause of inflammation or even any unnatural state exist, for these counteract its effects, or may often induce disease in other parts. Thus, if a portion of intestine be strangulated, or even incarcerated, in hernia, bleeding does not cure the inflam- mation produced by this local cause. So long as the imme- diate and exciting cause of inflammation is allowed to exist, it is not to be expected that any means can cuie the disease, and the intensity of the local disease has much influence on the state of the system. An opening was made in the abdomen of a rabbit, and a loop of intestine drawn out, and retained, but covered with the integuments. No material disorder was produced, but on turning off again the integuments, after twenty-four hours, and exposing the intestine, which had adhered to the surface of the parietes, and at the opposite sides of the loop, it was found red and inflamed; the inflam- mation increased, and the animal died in about thirty-sixhours. The intestine was highly inflamed, soft, and deeply injected, firmly adhered to the aperture, which was also red for a little way externally and internally. The rest of the intestine was scarcely, if at all, inflamed, but the mucous coat of the stomach was decidedly inflamed, whilst the peritoneal coat was quite sound. The same circumstances may be observed in the human subject, particularly in the case of hernia. I know no point more difficult to determine than the extent to which evacuation should be carried; and feeling the awful responsibility on a teacher for his precepts, I do earnestly beg of the student, if he find that my rules have misled him, and that he have lost his patient by my advice, of bleeding freely in the early stage, and sparingly, if at all, in the more advanced period, that he satisfy himself of the effect of an opposite plan, for I have nothing in view but his good, and the safety of his patients. I have given my opinion freely and unreservedly, as it has been formed from observation. In conclusion, I beg of him to attend not merely to the nature of the part affected, for inflammation of the lungs and paren- chymatous organs bear bleeding better than those of the intes- tines and delicate parts, but also to the constitution of the patient, his age and strength. Some substitutes have been proposed for the lancet, with a view to lessen the action of the arterial system. It is very doubtful if such exist. We know that the stomach has gieat influence on the heart and arteries, and that sickness or depressing causes operating• on the stomach, can render the pulse small and feeble, and ultimately, perhaps, produce syncope. But when we know these facts, we also know that often our worst inflammations are conjoined with these very states; that inflammation of the stomach and intestines is attended with great sinking and depression, and often with both a small and feeble pulse, with the very conditions, one and all, that these substitutes are intended to produce; and yet no benefit, but rather harm results therefrom. It is one thino- to biidle the circulation, as it is called, through the medium of the stomach, and quite another thing to alter the action of144 die arteries. It is one tiling to make the heart beat feebly, and to depress the muscular system, and another thing to make the heart beat naturally, and check the inflammatory action. It is one thing to lessen the stimulus to action, and another to throw a veil over the excitement. In fine, we smother the flame, but do not extinguish the fire. We give large doses of tartar emetic, digitalis, and nauseating drugs, but we find either, that here, as in mania, no effect at all is produced, unless a prodigious dose be given, or, that when the effect is produced by a large or small dose, no mitigation is obtained. Tartar emetic has long been employed in erysi- pelas ; and there, as sickness may moderate circulation in the extreme vessels, we should hope for benefit; but farther than an emetic or purgative may be required or useful, it does no good; and in other cases it is so far worse than useless, that we produce a depression of the system without a removal of the disorder, and trusting to it we shall neglect more certain remedies. There is only one case in which it is useful, and that is in pleurisy where the violence having been checked by the lancet, a tendency to nausea excited by the medicine, is sometimes beneficial as an expectorant, and in mitigating the cough. Digitalis I employed freely, with a view of avoiding the necessity of bleeding, but I did not find it succeed; and for many years I have only used it after depletion, when I apprehended any tendency to effusion in the thorax. Prussic acid in a small dose has no effect whatever, and if given so as to produce its carotic effect, or apparent syncope, (in which case alone it can be expected to check inflamma- tion), it does no more than a deliquium or temporary insensi- bility from any other cause would do. It does not change action, although it may obliterate, for a time, sensation or consciousness. Colchicum cannot be trusted to. On the whole, my practical conviction is, that no reliance can be placed on any or all of these remedies alone, and that they can only under particular circumstances do good after the proper use of the lancet. Prussic acid, for instance, in small doses, has appeared to do good in some cases that threatened to become phthisical.14o Purgatives are useful so far as employed for removin'* irritation from the bowels, or as they may be required for exciting and preserving the due action of these organs. But if given to occasion simple depletion, especially if trusted to for this purpose, when the lancet is proper, they deceive and do much harm. They may sink the patient, but never can cure any serious inflammation. Diaphoretics are likewise to be reprobated, in so far as they shall be employed as more than adjuncts. In a gentle way they may> in die wane of the disease, tend to complete the removal of the inflammatory fever, which by other means was subsiding; but I have never seen any good effect produced on the local disease, excepting in so far as their thus aiding the removal of the fever, may have an influence on the local disease, which was already going off. Another mean of lessening action, is by subducting the stimulus of heat. There are few inflammations in which this is not proper, but some require more caution than others. In external or subcutaneous inflammation it is useful, and may even be pushed pretty far; but in internal inflammation, it is generally sufficient to remove tbe sensation of heat, without producing that of cold. If we can make the patient feel cool, or of natural heat, it is all we wish. Lessening the action gieatly of the surface by cold, is in many cases, apt by sympathy, to throw increased action on the parts below. Hence it is doubtful in pleurisy; and although some have extolled it in enteritis and cephalitis, it is never to be lashly practised. In cutaneous and subcutaneous inflammation, it may be employed with advantage, although in the first of diese there is a prejudice against it, or wetting the part. It is usual to add some substance to water, as acetate of lead, muriate of ammonia, vinegar, &c., but these have little, if any, influence, except on the imagination of the patient; and cold water will be found to fulfil every useful purpose. The inflamed part is to be covered with cloths wet with this, and these are to be removed whenever the part becomes hot. Moi e powerful means have been proposed, as snow or pounded ice, but these are always hazardous, and if long persisted in, L146 apt to cause mortification. 1 hey also often increase pain. Even cold water ought never to be employed in any accident, where the parts are not preternaturally hot, or where the inflammation is of the low kind, and never ought to be con- tinued longer than it is found to relieve the sensation, or may be required to carry off preternatural heat from the surface. The modus operandi of this remedy being evident, it may be thought that we could never err in its application. But there is perhaps no remedy more apt to be abused, and more capable of even doing harm. In two cases of inflamma- tion, both equally near the surface, it shall in one case aggra- vate, and in another relieve. Must then our practice be in regard to temperature quite empirical, trying first cold and then heat, to find which agrees best; or can we discover any principle to guide us. It is very easy to find a practical rule, namely, to use the one which relieves the sensation most; but still this is not a principle, but a deduction from experi- ment. In most cases when the inflamed part is below the cellular substance, or distinct from it, and the sympathy of equilibrium comes to operate, we must, if we reduce the action of the surface, injuriously increase that of the part already inflamed. This sympathy, however, does not always exist in the same degree, or in any degree; and, therefore, although we may form a tolerable conjecture, wre still require to confirm that by trial. Parts of different texture, as glands, sinews, bone, &c., lying very superficial, may be directly acted on by cold applied to the surface, and in the early stage of inflammation, may be relieved; but where these paits aie deeper, and even when superficial, cold, often, but not always, increases the disease. In inflammation of the female breast, for instance, we much more frequently do harm by cold applications than good; and when we do derive benefit, it is found either that the inflammation is altogether cellular, or the gland very superficial. Inflammation of the testicle is often greatly relieved by the application of iced water, and sometimes the swelling is actually speedily lessened, though not to the extent that the corrugation of the skin leads the patient to believe. In some inflammations of the bones orperiosteum, when near the surface, the greatest relief is derived from the application of cold. I have already stated the result of experiments, which prove that cold applied to the surface can diminish the tem- perature of internal parts, but still we find from practice that we must be prudent in our application, and be regulated by the effect. Benefit from cold when the texture is not cellular, is, however, by no m§ans to be calculated on. When the great mass of inflamed texture is cellular, but other parts have participated, as may happen, in injuries of the extremities, the relief obtained by the action of cold on the extended cellular affection may thereby afford a general mitigation of the whole disease, which could not have been expected, nor have taken place, had the skin and subcutaneous texture been affected in a smaller proportion. The application of tepid water or poultices to the surface is often of signal service. It relieves the pain, and lessens inflammation. The operation, perhaps, is neither uniformly the same, nor simple. It may act as an anodyne, or soother of sensation, which is always useful, as on the other hand, whatever increases pain does harm, unless it be speedily followed by a positive mitigation of sensation. It may also act by increasing the determination of blood to the extreme vessels, and thereby lessening that to the deeper parts. A tendency to cutaneous secretion is likewise in some cases produced, which will have a similar effect. On the same prin- ciple too that cold so often fails to do good, or is positively productive of harm, it may, by gently exciting die action of the surface, diminish the morbid action below. Whether cold or tepid applications be employed, and whether pre- scribed on theory or sanctioned by experimental trial, they ought to be pretty extensively used, and not confined to the mere spot. If the wrist or ankle, for instance, be affected the whole hand or foot, and part of the arm or leg, should be immersed in the fluid, or covered with the cloths. The exact temperature of both kinds of applications is to be determined by the effect of relieving sensation, and not by thermome- tucal rules. I have made experiments on the inflamed foot ° lle lroo’ lo ascertain the comparative effects of ice andtepid water, and the result was, that whilst the inflammation seemed to be removed fully sooner under the use of the latter, the part was much more apt to die or slough under that of the former. Allowance, however, must be made for the thin- ness of the web. The vessels being dilated in inflammation, it has been thought that astringents should be efficacious in the cure. We can place very little reliance on the effect of any astringent given internally in contracting the vessels at a distance, and it is in very few cases that we can directly apply such reme- dies to the diseased part. It remains to be yet proved, that if we could do so, this artificial contraction of the vessels should do any good in acute inflammation. Experience does not confirm the theoretical conjecture. In external inflam- mation, it is usual to apply cold solution of acetate of lead, sulphate of zinc, or muriate of ammonia, but I am not satis- fied that these solutions have more efficacy than cold water. Solution of acetate of lead applied to the frog’s web makes the circulation more rapid, but it by no means follows that those agents which excite the vessels, or produce contraction, must cure inflammation. Doubtless they ought to do so according to a prevailing theory ; but setting the surer testi- mony of experience aside, which is altogether against theii utility, I can confidently say, that turpentine, laudanum, wine. &c. never had the smallest effect in removing the inflammation of a frog’s web, in the multiplied expeiiments I made. When they do good in the human subject, it is never by simply allaying acute inflammation. As pain is both an effect and aggravator, or at least a supporter of inflammation, it has been proposed freely to administer anodynes. We ought, however, to be aware, that inflammation is not a simple action, and that allaying one symptom will not always allay, far less destroy, the whole. We possess as yet no medicine which simply diminishes sen- sibility and mitigates pain. It would be of great importance if we did, for sensation has much influence on the contin- uance and consequences of inflammation. Opium, the most to be depended on, exerts at the same time a stimulating149 effect, which, it it do not render it positively injurious, will at least counterbalance any good it can otherwise do, when exhibited internally in the early stage of most inflammations, and particularly without previous depletion. This, however, is moie decidedly the case in some organs and habits than in ot leis. It is peculiarly noxious in cerebral and pulmonary animation. In inflammation of the joints, or cellular sub- tance in the extientities again, it may, after evacuation, pro- cure much relief, without any corresponding evil. In abdo- na , a_, veil as in external inflammation, and in all cases lere theie is considerable pain, it is almost essential, after uno 1 )e active state by bleeding, that we allay sensation y i opiate, foi the mere sensation keeps up inflammation; eie is a stage in which the two remedies may be advan- - oe°us y i ended, and perhaps one in which opium alone is the ost use ul. We must not compare or confound the effects p uni, pioduced on an inflamed part through the medium ©eneial system, with those resulting from its direct application to it. When the inflamed part is very thin, and ex ensue, t ic diiect application of opium, especially after evacuation is often attended with great benefit, although the internal exhibition might have been hurtful. This is not to be attributed to any astringency or simple stimulation, for tS OI r"^!e at ^11S earlf stage would not have had the same effect. This is illustrated by ophthalmia, when, after 6 acute staSe is over, or after evacuation, vinutn opii is of gieat use, and vinum digitalis seems equally beneficial. I was led to propose it from finding that it seemed on experi- mental trial to excite the venous circulation. ocal applications are to be employed with two views. ie ist is to diminish the inflammatory action directly, as we attempt by topical bleeding and cold; the second is, to "'eve the sensation mediately or immediately, as we thereby “T eaSt a ProP and excitement to the continuance of I™'0'611 With ,hiS SUbjeCt of the -fl-ce very acute"’-1 ^ ^ mentloned’ that where the sensation is the exdtin„ C°nSeq“enCe P*1'"? °f the PowerfuI action of exciting cause) and partly of the natural function of the1.50 injured part, as, for example, the skin, we find that sometimes two very opposite plqns may prove useful, lhus, when a part -is scalded, we often derive advantage from the imme- diate application of cold water, which lessens the sensation of heat, and alleviates all the symptoms. This is merely by mitigating the sensation, and not as a sedative or diminishei of action. On the other hand, especially if cold have not been immediately used, the application of a slightly smarting stimulus, such as vinegar, will often give relief. A moderate degree of heat may serve the same purpose. Hence wrap- ping the part in cotton wool has been found useful. When distention seems to be a cause of increased pain, removing that allays inflammation. Even when there is no great distention, producing preternatural slackness of the part lessens the morbid action. In periostitis, cutting down to the bone through the detached and distended periosteum, or unbridling the periosteum, as it was called, is of service in this way, as well as by the flow of blood produced by the incision. Evacuating the aqueous humour of the eye is, on this principle, of benefit in many cases of inflammation of that organ. • _ Increasing greatly the action of the skin immediately superjacent will be found in general useful, when a part of a different texture below is inflamed. But it there be any similarity or continuity, by continuation of cutis or serous . membrane, this plan is oftener hurtful than beneficial. On this principle, the application of blisters or issues externally will be found serviceable in inflammation of the joints, bones, pleura, &c. whilst in ophthalmia, a blister applied to the temple may do as much harm ns it would have done good, had it been placed more remote, for instance, on the back of the head. Two remarks may be made on this subject. First, That when, from the cause just mentioned, we find it proper to apply a blister somewhat remote from the inflamed organ, it will require to be comparatively larger than in those cases where we can place it directly over the part, and, ceteris pcm- hus, the deeper that the inflamed part is, the larger will the blister require to be. Second, We ought never to apply151 blisters, particularly large ones, till we have, by previous venesection, allayed so far the action of the vascular system, as without this precaution, the additional excitement of the blister might aggravate the constitutional, and thus, indirectly, the local disease. There is another objection to the prema- tiue use of blisters, that if they do not operate beneficially on the part below, by lessening its'action, they may do harm, by producing an inflammation in the vicinity, which will likely become associated with the original one, and increase it. Piemature or early application of caustic to form issues, is still moie huitful. I he pain and violent action suddenly produced, almost always act on the principle of sympathy of association, and aggravate the disease. In deep inflamma- tions, of the spinal cord, for instance, this fact cannot be too much attended to. Blisters do good, partly by increasing the sanguinous determination to a more external and distant part, and partly by simply increasing action, and thereby diminishing, on the principle of the sympathy of equilibrium, that ot the part below. A sinapism is not so effectual as a lister, both because it is more temporary in its effects, and also because it does not produce the same degree of action and vascular determination ; nor does it produce any serous secretion. But when mere sensation is the prominent symp- tom, as, for instance, in spasmodic, and what are called ner- vous pains, they act as well as blisters, and more rapidly, whilst their irritation being soon over, is an advantage. This class of remedies can rarely be trusted to alone. Like cavalry in an engagement, it is more useful in completing, than com- mencing the defeat. It is useful, not merely in preventing a relapse, but it often effects what bleeding of itself could not do. It is peculiarly serviceable in those cases where the acute symptoms are removed, or the strong action allayed, but where without a continued counter-agent, we should have either immediate suppuration, or permanent change of structure pro- duced. Ihere are also cases where venesection has been altogether neglected, and has now become inadmissible, and vet the disease is curable, and that by the very means under ' consK eration. We often, for instance in pleurisy, find that152 we durst bleed no more, either generally or locally, and can hardly hope for a cure from blisters, when yet a perfect recovery has taken place by producing and keeping up a free discharge from a blistered surface by savin ointment. Blisters are, however, at no time to be applied to weak or delicate patients, unless there be a probability of success, and therefore should not be rashly repeated where they have already been found useless. They are productive of weakness sometimes in a very great degree, and in some instances, partly from irrita- tion, partly from sloughing, they kill the patient, who might not have been destroyed by the disease. In all inflammations with any tendency to what is called putridity,_ as cynanche maligna, &c. they are most dangerous. They must be cautiously used in infancy. When the means for arresting acute inflammation have been freely used, and so flu* perhaps successfully, but the part is in a hesitating state, the new organization still remaining, and prone, on the slightest cause, to a renewal of the acute inflammatory action, it may be naturally asked, whether any medicine capable of altering the action could be employed, as, for example, mercury. This is readily answered in the affirmative by most writers, in so far as some particular organs are concerned, particularly the liver. But there are many other cases where it may be useful, and is proved by experience to be so. Prudently administered, it completes the cure ol inflammation of mucous membranes, which sometimes neither bleeding nor blistering could do. It is also of efficacy in many cases of articular inflammation. It is a powerful means of restoring the testicle to health, when it is swollen from the , continuance of a half smothered inflammation. Nor is its utility confined to such cases; for both in cutaneous and parenchyyiatie inflammation, in iritis, and indeed in most cases of simple inflammation, for it is useless, if not positively hurtful in many specific inflammations, as scrofula, cancer, See. it is a remedy not to be disregarded. But two circumstances must be attended to. First, That it is not to supersede the use of depletion, and the other means advised; for even if it had more power than it actually possesses, it is too slow to be153 trusted to, and is only to' be viewed as a mean of completing •what other remedies had begun. Second, That we watch the effect; and if we find it to produce injurious excitement of the system, or of the organ, it must instantly be abandoned, and in no case is it to be pushed to a debilitating extent. I have been the more particular in my notice of the benefit to be expected from mercury, because I shall immediately speak of its useless and injurious exhibition. The different remedies I have now enumerated must be employed with a promptitude, vigour, and to an extent pro- portioned, not merelj' to the degree of inflammation mea- sured absolutely, but also considered l’elatively to the strength of the system, or ol the inflamed part, or the sensibility and habitudes ot that part, and its importance to life. But I should ill discharge my duty, did I stop here, and having described the disease and its treatment, I return to a position I have been obliged reluctantly to set out with, that often, under the most vigorous treatment, the disease, con- sisting as much in a new organization as a new action, obsti- nately resists all our remedies. Now, this very fact which at first appears so discouraging, I mean to lay hold of as a power- ful argument in favour of energetic practice. I am bound to ask of myself, and entitled to inquire of others, why one man dies, whilst another recovers. It is very easy to give some general answer to this momentous question, which may appear to exonerate both the practice and the practitioner; and we may talk learnedly of constitutions and irritabilities, and adventitious combinations, and after all, leave the matter as we found it, and our own principles no better than before. But if we look more strictly to the case, we must come to the alternative, either that in this fatal case there has been a mis- management, a procrastination in the use of some of the means, or there has been some state of the part or system, which rendered the use of these fruitless, such an enfeebled constitution, perhaps, as rendered it impossible for it to stand both the attack of the disorder and the remedy. But with tbe fact before us, we surely neglect our duty if we allow inflammation to exist a single hour, without the use of appro-1.54 priate means to check it, and are called on to act in every case with the same energy as it we dreaded a fatal result; and well am I convinced, that if this early and sedulous attention were given to the very commencement of the disease—did we always recognise instantly its presence, and become impressed with a sense of the possible danger, many should be saved who otherwise must be lost. There may, in a simple attack of inflammation from cold or other similar causes, be such obstacles to recovery, arising from the previous state of the constitution, as shall, if we suc- ceed, require all our skill. But the surgeon has peculiai difficulties to contend with, and these, I fear, are too much overlooked in treatises on inflammation. It is one thing to reason on this disease in the abstract, or lay down rules for the management of it in general, and anothei thing to understand and cure it when it succeeds to an wound or important injury. The part may instantly be disorganized and crushed; there may be much local concussion ; a great shock to the general system ; a complication of injuries dis- tant; as well as distinct from one another; and all rendering the accession of inflammation dangerous beyond the ordinary degree, and its removal difficult in proportion to its danger. It is in the treatment of these cases that the nicety , ol suigerj is required, and, that deep attention, sound science, and a o-ood judgment are essential to the preservation of the patient. And if I wished, as assuredly I do, to impress the mind ol a student with the importance and difficulty of Ins profession, would not set before him the delicacy of an operation, nor the pains and lingering sufferings of a hopeless and a helpless disease, but I would place him at once in the field of batt e, or in an hospital filled by some extensive'acadent at a public WOrk and there I would allow him to study the effects o, inflammation, and the power of the different means employee by the surgeons who attended. He would there discover, when the shock was not immediately and necessarily a a that inflammation was the grand agent of destruction; tha in the slighter cases, the rules he had learned in the schools, proved effectual in the theatre of practice, but that in moie155 severe and complicated injuries, the state of the system, and oi the injured part, required a consideration separate from, but not unconnected with, inflammation ; and in not a few, the inevitable effect of inflammation, if the patient lived long enough to allow it to be established, would be fatal exhaustion ; and in the contemplation of this, he should find the surgeon preferring at once the removal of the injured extremity, as a souice of irritation and exhaustion, to the chance of preserv- ing it at the risk of life. It would be anticipating what must heieaftei be said of these states, to enter here into their con- sideration, or to say how we should attempt to obviate them, and in what cases we should separate the wounded or injured part from the rest of the system. But it is far from irrelevant to introduce the subject here as a mean of connecting it in the mind of the reader with inflammation, as that disease occurs in surgical practice. When an inflamed part returns to a state of health, the disease is said to terminate by resolution, or to be resolved, but it may neither do this, nor yet produce immediate destruc- tion of the part, far less death. It may end in a permanent change of organization, and this, of all others, I maintain to be the most frequent, and the most fatal termination, where a complete cure is not obtained. Take any texture of the body, any organ from the most insignificant to the most important, choose any age, sex, or constitution, one and the same result, though under many modifications, will present itself. The inflammation is cured, but it has left behind it a thickened and newly organized texture, which, like an insu- lated being in the world, has no common bond of union with the system, no natural part to perform in the economy of the frame, no community of action, but is a stranger and a parasite growing in and from the soil where it is implanted and following laws and habitudes peculiar to itself. The pait never returns to its natural structure. It remains thick- ened and altered, no matter how, a distinct tumour is pro- t uced, which grows, and at length inflames and ulcerates. e progress is far from uniform, much less are the symptoms 01 e ects legular and similar. Much depends on the con- 7l.OG stitution of the patient, on the natural texture and function of the affected part, on the extent of the original derangement, and on the peculiar structure of the newly formed induration, not a little in those circumstances which check or encourage activity in the tumour. Some remain for a long course of years quiescent, others early become active, and end in ulceration. Some are principally hurtful by their mechanical irritation, others dangerous from the malignancy of their action. Some are chiefly to be dreaded from tbeir interfer- ence with the necessary function of the part where they are situated, others soon cause hectic fever, or wear out the system by pain and irritation, or seem to exhaust the constitution, without either fever or acute suffering. Look to all the formidable and often irrecoverable diseases which present themselves to the surgeon, to the various classes of tumours and indurations wherever situated, and however they may operate, whether seated in the stomach, or encircling the rectum, or occasioning stricture in the urethra, or thickening of the bladder, or swelling of the testicle, or ovarium, or internal glands, or in the brain, or the lungs, or the abdominal viscera, or joints, or any part of the whole cellular expansion, one common cause for all the varied evil may be traced, and will be found to have consisted in inflammation. We have only to look at this catalogue of evils, constituting the greatest number of human maladies, and then, without considering the acute effects of inflammation, we may well say, that if this process be the result of the wisdom of nature, the conse- quences of her folly must be still more marvellous and disas- trous, and may declare, as Van Helmont did on another occa- sion, that in this case the Archeus operateth imprudently. Tumours, whether resulting from acute and well marked, or from more obscure degrees of inflammation, may either continue in a state of action, approximating to inflammation, or may remain long dormant, by which I mean, without any tendency to excitement, or increase either of action or of d-rowth/ Organization and action are so connected, that an alteration of the one must affect the other; and as in the simplest tumour, wTe perceive if there be any action beyond157 that of mere preservation, it is of the nature of obscure inflammation, we may succeed in lessening or removing it, by the application of leeches, &c. But when there is no degree whatever of inflammatory action, and especially when the tumour is more of a specific nature, we seldom do good by this plan. Hence, the absurdity and danger of wasting time, by attempting to cure a schirrus by leeches. , Such means as can produce a new action in a simple tumour, may, by destroying the condition connected with the new organization, prevent the farther deposition of such oiganization ; and in the meantime, the absorption ^oinsr on i l • r o as usual, the tumour is removed. Absorption of the tumour always existed, but the structure was immediately renewed; now it is not. Mercury sometimes does good in this way. It is conjectured that it acts by exciting or promoting absorp- tion ; but if so, why does it not cause the absorption of every tumour, and of every part ? And will it be maintained that absorption did not go on briskly before it was given ? Its operation in this way is still better seen in the cure of a venereal bubo, or a node, or syphilitic effusion of fluid. This last was absorbed as fast before, as after, the exhibition of mercury, but the medicine stops its reproduction. Mere excitation never promotes the absorption, or removal of a tumour, and mercury does not act in this way, otherwise wine ought to be as effectual. If any thing can be supposed to act directly as a cause of absorption, it must be continued pressure, friction, &c. But even in these cases, the first effect, I believe, is on the particles of the texture, and they are absorbed faster because they live shorter; but unless the pressure or Iriction at the same time can alter the action, which is possible, the effect is not likely to be permanent. It may be supposed that some stimulants, by overexciting the pai tides of the tumour, might hurry absorption, but unless at the same time action be altered, this mode, if it ever take place, cannot be permanent. Some suppose that certain medicines promote directly the absorption, and use diure- tics, bcc., but these have no influence on the tumour. Iodine, muriate of lime, &c., when they do good, act by removing158 the diseased, and restoring a more perfect action. Sometimes merely removing a cause, which was keeping the constitution weak or unhealthy, does good, by enabling the system to restore to the part a more healthy state. Hence, sometimes purgatives, sea-bathing, &c., may do good. Against this origin of tumours, or the production of indura- tion, it will be said, that often no previous inflammation can be detected. Now this is the very point I wish to call the reader’s attention to. I wish to impress on him the fact, that there may be inflammation without any fever, and with veiy little pain, or there may be pain without fever, which passes as spasmodic. The primary symptoms may be either slight, or soon over, and it is not till long afterwards that the effect appears. In other instances the symptoms at first are prettv smart, but presently abate, without the health returning, and a long period of delicacy, ends at length in the decided appear- ance "of tumour, or accompanying hectic. The conclusion I mean to draw from all this is, that whenever the symptoms are in any degree ambiguous, and more especially whenever the part apparently affected is important, or the patient of a bad constitution, we ought to have immediate recourse to general, still more certainly and frequently to topical bleed- ino-; and if the symptoms be not speedily removed, to t tie subsequent application of a blister. I grant that in many cases the nature of the disease may be doubtful, and these evacuations may therefore be sometimes employed unneces- sarily ; but when I consider the protracted, and often fatal evils, which may result from neglect, where inflammation really exists, of these means, and how little injury can arise from the opposite mistake of using them unnecessarily, I cannot retract the advice I have given. It is much the fashion to praise purgatives, and to trust to them in many doubtful cases I do not wish to speak disrespectfully ot this worthy class of medicines, but I fear that they are now rather too much in credit, and are exalted to the rank of principals, where they should only be admitted as adjuncts. Abdominal irritation, spasmodic, or muscular pains, or obscure sympa- thies, are terms which perhaps often cost the patient Ins hie,159 and from a mistaken lenity, inefficient means are trusted to, when thelancet, orcupping-glass and blisters, should be resorted to. How these indurations, when they are established, are to be removed, this is not the time to consider; but here it may be proper to remark, that when we fear their produc- tion, in consequence of some uneasy sensation or disturbance of function remaining after inflammation, or from symptoms of returning health not speedily appearing, or perhaps from the situation of the part preventing our ascertaining distinctly the existence of induration or swelling, we ought to consider how fai theie is still such action in the part as may warrant the application of leeches ; or if not, we should apply a blister, peihaps lepeatedly, or form an issue over the part; but in pro- secuting the application of blisters, regard must always be had to theii effects, and the caution formerly given concerning the debility they sometimes produce, must never be lost sight of. When this is not done, if the situation admit, advantage may be derived from gentle and long continued friction every four or five hours; and a little oil will be found to render this more pleasant, and often more useful. The application of a tepid bread and milk poultice is sometimes beneficial. It is chiefly in this state of unextinguished inflammation, and what may be called simple inflammatory thickening or swelling of the part, that we succeed in effecting a cure. For when the part becomes more altered still in its texture, and more indu- rated, our power over it is less. When simple thickening i emains after the inflammation has entirely subsided, gentle pressure sometimes causes absorption. Or if a canal be affected m this way, so as to tighten it, mechanical dilatation may be effectual, operating also as pressure. Discutients externally and internally have been proposed ; of the former kind are gentle stimulants, such as the applica- tion of cloths wet with camphorated spirit of wine and vine- gar; ether, friction with camphorated liniment, mercurial ointment, repeated blisters, galvanism, &c.; of the latter are meicury, muriate of lime, iodine, or simple aperients. There aie two ways in which remedies in this case may be supposed to act. First, by directly altering the action of the part, andl(i() inducing a new one, which is more easily removed than that D ' * , we wish to get quit of. Second, by exciting the action ot the absorbent system, and lessening the bulk of the part; but this we have seen to be questionable. In both views, the ope- ration, so far as internal remedies are concerned, must be gene- ral and equal over the whole system, unless where the part is from disease weaker, or more apt to be acted on than the rest. Mercury may be supposed to act in both ways; muriate of lime, diuretics, and laxatives, in the second way. Mhese last remedies, especially when of a tonic nature, are supposed also to act by invigorating the digestive functions, and thereby, by strengthening the system, enabling it to restore healthy action to the part. The utility of any, or all of these means, how- ever, is too often very questionable. I am not such a sceptic as to deride their employment; but I am not sanguine in every case. In the few instances of chronic tumours, in which mercury has appeared to do good, it has either been rubbed on a superficial tumour, and friction has become thereby entitled to as much of the credit as the medicine ; or, in inter- nal affections, it has rather appeared to excite a torpid, or rectify a disordered function, or excite the absorption of a fluid, than actually to remove a growth. Its chief service is when some degree of inflammation continues and keeps up the enlargement; and whilst I deny not its benefit in a few cases, on the principle I have explained, I also expect most from it when a slow and half extinguished inflammation still exists. I have already the more fully noticed its beneficial exhibition, that I may now more freely caution against its indiscriminate application. When the liver is affected in the way under review, and the structure changed, or bu k increased, mercury is immediately given; and often the on y argument urged in favour of the prescription is. custom, and the certainty that the next person consulted will have recourse to it. I am not at liberty to deny that mercury has done good in some cases of tumefied liver, but I will maintain that ?t is not of the extensive utility which many suppose; that it is chiefly to be relied on when inflammation actually exists, though in an obscure form, and where the tumefaction orlGl change of structure and inflammation are mutually connected together or identified ; that in other cases, where this does not obtain, and some new organization and mode of acting, neither inflammatory nor yet proper to the part exists, it more fre- quently has no effect whatever, especially in long continued disease; and that in numerous instances it has, when freely given, accelerated the death of the patient, either by producing languor and great debility, or actually exciting inflammation or suppuration; and considering the indiscriminate way in which it is given, I have great doubt, setting syphilis out of the ques- tion, whether more patients should not recover, or at least live longer, were a course of mercury prohibited by law. It is peculiarly noxious in scrofulous habits, and much more frequently hurries scrofulous tumours, wherever they are placed, whether m the liver, lungs, or external glands, on to suppuration than to absorption. Of muriate of lime and iodine, I can only admit, that in moderate doses, they are ' safer than mercury; but I am not warranted to say that they are more useful. The truth is, that when inflammation has entirely gone off, little confidence can be placed in any of t iese remedies. They may be employed so far, and only so Jong, as they do not exasperate the disease, an effect seldom produced by any of these but mercury, or weaken the patient. It will be said, that the disease is left to its own course, if we do not vigorously attack it by these remedies. My reply is, prove that these so frequently do good, and so seldom do harm, as to justify the practice; or to put the matter in another light, I join issue on the question, whether, if an induration or change of texture resist the early use of leeches, and the other primary means already spoken of, during the only period when they can do good, we have not a better chance of the patient living longer, and enjoying ns ealth, by what may be called a negative practice, than by the use of active means, which, if they fail to remove the t isease, as they usually do, must produce an effect decidedly injurious both on the system and the organ. Where we have no specific remedy for the removal of a tumour, as for instance, mercury in syphilis, we should never, in one of a162 nature tending to obstinate, far less, malignant ulceration, do any thing to exasperate the action, but, on the contrary, by the mildest treatment, and mere palliatives, if we interfere at all, endeavour to keep the tumour quiet. I appeal to those who have been most active in their treatment, for an impartial decision; and to my younger brethren, I hope I do a service, when 1 earnestly beg of them to pause before they proceed. One good effect has already resulted from the fashionable doctrine of the origin of numerous diseases, from affections ot the alimentary organs, when this is not pushed too keenly, namely, the substitution of a mild course of laxatives, for a dangerous and empirical use of mercury, and other stimulat- ing or poisonous substances. These remarks might peihaps have been reserved till I came to treat of tumours, but they are not misplaced here. Before quitting this part of the subject, I shall briefly notice a condition somewhat analogous to that which has been just considered, and winch is called, perhaps not very properly, chronic inflammation. This is a disease more of the nature of a tumour or new formation, than of actual inflammation. It consists chiefly in the existence of the simple inflamed tex- ture or structure, without the activity of action. There is turgescence of the vessels, particularly of the veins, and the part is altogether more vascular, as well as slightly swollen, from the continuance of those depositions which took place during the active stage. It does not act like a healthy part, neither does it act exactly like an inflamed one. It bears, perhaps, the same relation to acute inflammation that the smothered, but not extinguished fire does to the blazing pi e. It is productive rather of teasing irritation, than of actua pain; but as it interferes with the due performance of the function of the part, whatever that may be, it must always be more or less injurious; and, besides, it is liable to sudden attacks of acute inflammation, and in one of these we may have the part more injured, and suppuration or obstinate ulceration produced. , This disease may be placed as a link between actual an acute inflammation, and the termination by thickening, 01163 the establishment of a tumour; and it partakes somewhat of the nature and character of each. This is therefore the proper place to notice it. It seldom affects the constitution, unless it be seated in a part where any simple irritation should influence the system. \Y hen it is so, the effect is not fever, but that state which I shall afterwards describe under the name of irritation : gene- i al bloodletting can therefore never be required, unless the disease exist in a part which cannot be touched by local bleed- ing, oi excepting in the short stage intervening between the actual end of acute inflammation, and the full establishment of this disease. Topical evacuation, however, by leeches or scarifications, will be found of signal service, and ought seldom to be omitted, when the situation of the part permits. The application of blisters, or the formation of issues in the same relative situations respecting the part as has been advised in acute inflammation, will be highly proper. If the disease be extensively diffused over a deep-seated part, the use of stimu- lating baths or embrocations is generally serviceable. Hence tbe advantages of Bath in many cases. Encouraging the exercise of the function of the part sometimes lessens the disease, but this is never to be done rashly nor hurriedly ; and it does not seem to have any power over the mere inflam- matory action. Those actions which may be performed by an inflamed part, and have no tendency to diminish that state, must irritate and do harm. Those which, by their per- formance, tend rather to diminish irritability, may do good. It is, therefore, when irritability predominates, that we would attempt this plan ; and it is on this principle that it sometimes succeeds in muscular affections and sensibility of tbe eye. On the principle of lessening irritability, and improving t e general health, mild laxatives, and tonics, such as bark or iron, have been recommended. The first can never be impropei. The second will be found useful in many cases provided that the action of the vascular system be not much excited. As our object is to increase the general strength wit lout producing arterial excitement, it is easy to see what iu ts may be laid down with regard to diet and the use ofwine. Any article of the former, or any quantity however small of the latter, which excites the diseased texture, must he improper. The effect of increased activity in the vascular system, is well seen by the increased redness and activity of some superficial diseases of this kind, as, for instance, on the eyeball, which occurs at the menstrual period. I have already noticed the effect of mercury on this state of inflammation, and the propriety of cautiously employing it, so long as it did not produce injurious excitement, but rather allayed the inflammatory action. Some topical applications which con- stringe the vessels, or promote absorption, as well as tend to alter the existing action, are useful, when they can be applied, as, for example, camphorated spirit of wine; or to parts of a delicate sensibility, as the eye, vinurn opii, weak solution of nitrate of silver, or ointment containing nitro-mercurial salts, &c. When the sensibility of the part or its situation will permit, gentle pressure, friction oi’ percussion, have been found useful. They are most serviceable when pain and stiffness are prominent symptoms, and their first benefit, when they are to cure, appears in the mitigation of the pain. I must not quit the subject of inflammatio valida, without noticing the modification which we meet with, when the disease attacks mucous membranes. The appearance ex- hibited by these membranes under inflammation has been described when treating of the modifications arising from tex- ture ; and therefore, I need do little more now than state, before speaking of the treatment, that inflammation may act on the secreting apparatus in two ways. It may, it originally seated chiefly in the texture in which the glands or follicles are situated, act as an excitant to them, as any stimulant or acrid substance should have done, and thereby increase, as well as change or modify, the secretion. In another way, and perhaps a different or more extensive degree, the action may simultaneously take place in the follicles and the general texture, and the secretion may be either suspended or altered, and perhaps increased. It is no unusual thing to find one part of the mucous membrane secreting mucus or muco- purulent matter, and another excreting fibrin, which forms a165 layer of false membrane, as it has been called. This is too frequently seen in the trachea, when the membrane is often so rapidly inflamed, that it is affected like a serous membrane, and no mucus is secreted. In certain membranes, particu- lar]}' the inner coat of the intestine, serous or thin albumenous fluid ii> thrown out, and often abundantly. So long as the textuie of the mucous membrane is inflamed, or remains in an unnatural state, the follicles, even if they had escaped an equal participation in the inflammation, are excited to undue action; or the enlarged state of these vessels, and increased susceptibility of their nerves, which took place when they did participate, must tend to keep up an increased and improper discliaige, which, in many instances, whether coming from the intestine, trachea, or urethra, will be found to depend on, or be connected with, a certain change of organization more or less extensive, and analogous to chronic inflammation. If the inflammation run high, then the mucous coat is either abra- ded, and ordinary suppuration takes place, or we find gan- grenous patches. This is particularly the case in the intes- tine, and then, in some degree, its peritoneal coat may suffer. The appearance of the discharge from mucous membranes varies according to the intensity and stage of the inflamma- tion, and partly according to the natural kind of secretion. It may be clear, and almost mucous, or it may contain a large proportion of albumen, or so much fibrin as to form shreds and little lumps by its coagulation. It may be thick and white like starch, or yellow like pus. Diseases of this kind constitute a very important class. Some of them will come to be considered hereafter, but many of the most serious belong to the practice of physic. The effects produced in this, are of the same nature as in the phlegmonoid, inflam- mation. The pain is generally less than in inflammation of the skin, cellular substance, or serous membrane. It is some- times trifling, or rather a feeling of heat or itchiness, unless mechanical or chemical stimuli be applied, in which case the pain is often considerable; but even excessive pain may be pioduced by the great irritability communicated to the nemh- bouiing muscular fibres, whereby spasmodic action is readily166 excited. The constitution is affected in a degree proportioned to the inflammatory action and the sensibility of the part. Fever is often moderate, or at first absent, but it gradually increases, and may end in exhaustion or hectic. On dis- section, the disease is sometimes found confined entirely to the mucous coat, and there may even be no ulceration, but more frequently there is, or the inflammation is found to have been propagated to the parenchymatous, or other surround- ing substance. Gangrene may also be produced. We should always be on our guard in this disease, especially where vital organs are affected; for we find, that in the commencement, either the direct action of the exciting cause, or the incipient statre of inflammation produces slight increased or altered secretion, and renders that the most early and prominent effect, whilst the constitution is very little affected ; and before very urgent or acute symptoms have appeared, much danger may be incurred. Another circumstance not to be neglected is that this is more obstinate than phlegmonoid inflammation, if not early removed. The acute stage very likely passes off without immediate danger, but the part still continues with an inflamed texture, and the augmented secretion continues It has been imagined, that in many instances the part returned to its natural texture, and the discharge continued either by habit or weakness. I can see no philosophical ground foi these notions, and am inclined to think, that in every instance a local irritation will still be found to exist. It produces a transparent mucous discharge, or one a little whitish. The treatment must be a little varied, according to tie organs affected, but in all the general principles already laid down, should be acted on. Venesection or topical bleeding will in most instances be useful, and in many absolutely neces- This is particularly the case in inflammation of the mucous membrane of the trachea and its ramifications, and rf the alimentary canal; and here we must be early on our vd In elderly and delicate people, we shall cei tainly fai do no bleed promptly. In them, if we do not bleed 7 luk seldom bleed at all; for although the blood the evacuation only sinks the patient167 sooner. This is no argument against depletion, but a power- ful incentive to resort to it early. Many, who might be saved if they were bled when attacked with what is called a simple catarrh, are killed by the use of the lancet when the symp- toms become more urgent; or, perhaps, it may be more cor- rect to say, are cut off thereby a little earlier than if they had merely been blistered and treated with expectorants. When an old man has been seized with bronchitis, or has had an acute attack supervening on what is called a chronic catarrh, and has not at first been bled, he very often becomes progres- sively, but not rapidly, worse. Then the pulse becomes fuller and quicker; there is obscure pain in the chest, but the pro- minent symptoms are cough, and oppressed breathing, and much defluxion. He is bled, and expresses himself decidedly iclieved, but in a few hours he is delirious, with intermittent pulse, and cold extremities. It is not unusual for a man to be considered as in no danger in the morning, and to be dead at night. His danger was great in the morning, but the symptoms were not enough dreaded. Opiates are of great service where there is pain, which always keeps up the disease, and does mischief. Perhaps the best illustration of this is in dysentery, which generally is caused by inflammation of the mucous coat of the colon and rectum. If need be, blood should be taken early, but not repeatedly, and immediately opium administered, with the sparing use of laxatives. Such, at least, is the treatment I have found most successful. If the disease were severe and long pro- tracted, a very gentle course of the mildest preparation of mer- cury, viz. friction with the ointment, was of service. Copious venesection and calomel are to be deprecated; but sometimes topical bleeding, as, for instance, the application of leeches to the anus, if the rectum be much affected, will be useful, for these two last years, dysentery has been more prevalent than I have known it to be before, since above thirty years ago, and then it did not continue so long. Referring lo what I have already said on the treatment of ■ m animation, I shall only add here, that, as a prominent and U*y unP easant symptom often is the discharge, remedies have1G8 been employed for the express purpose of checking that. These have been exhibited either internally, or applied locally. In the former way, various resinous and irritating substances have been given, such as turpentine, copaiba, cubebs, &c. In the latter way, stimulating or astringent injections have been employed in the urethra, vagina, or eye; and vapourshave been sent into the trachea. It is clear that all of these, and even those which approach us under the disguise of sedatives, must be injurious in the first stage, unless we can show that they are able to cure inflammation. Our primary object must be to remove that, and it is only in so far as these applications can do so, that they in general are useful. In purulent ophthal- mia, for instance, we first must have recourse to depletion, and counter irritation, and then, as in other species, topical appli cations may do good. It does not follow that they act by checking directly the discharge, or shutting up the secreting vessels. They are useful just in the same way as collyria are in common ophthalmia, excepting in so far as they wash out the matter. In the urethra, also, we do no good, unless we lessen inflammation ; and as these often have a contrary effect, they, on the whole, do as much harm as good. It is not philosophical, however, to reason against the use of a remedy from its abuse. Irritating applications, especially in the first starre, must tend to increase inflammation, and aggravate the disease ; but it does not thence follow, that at a future period, mild stimulants are not of advantage. The indiscriminate use of injections in gonorrhoea, has been attended with mischief but many carry their prejudices against them too far and forbid them in every case. The same man who prohibits injections in this disease, will not scruple to employ them in purulent ophthalmia. Can he give a good reason for this discrepancy in his practice? Establishing artificially the purulent action just so remote from the part as not to excite it by the irritation of the means employed, is found to be of more service, perhaps, than any other remedy. Thus, m purulent ophthalmia, great benefit is derived from an issue on die back part of the head. The same would hold true in respect of inflammation of the urethra, could we find a convenient place169 where the remedy should not be as bad as the disease. The discharges occasioned by inflammation of mucous membranes, are imagined soon to become associated with, or dependant on, imperfect or improper action in the chylopoietic viscera, and mild laxatives and alteratives are prescribed. The state ot these organs is doubtless in every disease to be attended to, and the above evacuations kept correct. But unless where deviations from the healthy condition of these parts are found to exist, I am not disposed to admit the great advantage of these remedies. The local disease, by its irritation, may set these organs wrong, and their deviations may react on the original cause. This is especially the case in children and irritable patients; but in not a few cases, the green stools are the effect ol the calomel given, and not of the disease, which would just as readily yield to a course of diuretics, as a course of purgatives. hen this form of inflammation has passed into a chronic state, we may consider that we have a new gland produced. We have an altered texture, and a different, as well as increased secretion. The effects of this on the health vary according to the function of the part, and the degree of irritation given. In many cases the system is worn out by a species of hectic fever, or by continued bad health : some other complaint is brought on, which more rapidly proves fatal. Various means have been tried for removing this state, such as blisters, issues, mercury, tonics, sea-bathing, &c. All of these are occasion- ally useful, but none of them can be depended on, and such of them as increase irritation, or produce debility, must instantly be abandoned. We do not sufficiently distinguish in our curative views, and hopes of success, between those discharges, which arise from a local irritation, acting on the secreting membrane, and an actual change of structure con- sequent to inflammation. The first may often be cured, the second much more rarely. For instance, the increased dis- charge, which takes place from the mucous membrane of the bladder, in consequence of stricture, may be removed by removing the local cause or stricture, whilst that which epends on previous inflammation, and a change of structure,170 is removed with great difficulty, perhaps never. In this chronic state when the membrane affected is extensive, and belonging to an important organ as the trachea, or intestines, the cautious, and very moderate exhibition of mercury, is sometimes of use, but if it do not rapidly prove beneficial, it is sure to do harm if pushed far. When the situation of the part admits of it, the local application of mild stimulants and astringents may be of use. Inflammation of the skin demands a separate consideration, for this texture is full of capillary vessels, as well as of nervous papillae; and from its extreme sensibility and delicate sympathy Avith the most important internal organs, its diseases have powerful effects on the system. The chief seat of inflammation is in the corpus reticulare, or outer vascular layer, placed on the corium, from which the action may be propagated in different decrees inwards. The most prominent symptoms are heat and redness, but in different species, or stages of the same species, these vary in degree, the colour from pure bright scarlet to deep purple, and the heat, from the acute sensation ol burn- ing to the slightest feeling, which it may be difficult to say whether it belong more to itching than warmth. The red- ness may be uniform, or it may be deepest, perhaps purp e, at the papillae, so that whilst the interstices are ot a pale red, the deeper colour of the papillae gives a spotted appearance to the skin. Pressure empties for a moment the vessels o the papillae. The subjacent texture is swelled, and soon feels either puffy or hard, according as the effusion into the cellulai substance ‘is serous or fibrinous. The rete itself does not swell much. This inflammation ends, in its mildest form, m absorption of the effused serum, arid desquamation of the rutide which is sometimes slow and not easily peiceptible. „ degrees produce vesication. When the blisters are S,n,.e, the serum may be absorbed, and the raised cuticle dries and peels off. When larger, they burst, and the pan either scabs or ulcerates, according to the seventy ol the d,s- In those cases where the inflammation is communicated to the subjacent cellular substance, suppuration may take place there, and this is more apt to spread under the skin171 than in those cases where the inflammation originates in the cellular texture itself. Last of all, mortification may be a termination, and this will be afterwards considered. A mixed termination may arise, where there is much exposure of subjacent parts, by sloughing of one portion, and suppuration of another, producing a foul and troublesome, as well as exten- sive ulcer. lliere is nothing special in this inflammation, except in so far as texture and lunction are concerned. It has, however, been generally considered as of a peculiar kind, and has received an attributative designation, as if the action had a character of its own, distinct from that of all other inflamma- tions, and at the same time quite independent of the structure which it affected. Erythema, an appellation given from the red colour, is not more appropriate to this than to phlegmon. Erysipelas is not less exceptionable, for it may be predicated just as certainly of peritoneal as of cuticular inflammation, that it has a tendency to draw the adjoining parts into the same state. Nosologists having adopted these terms, however, made this distinction between them, that they restricted the first to solitary inflammation of the skin, unattended with fever, or accompanied with fever altogether symptomatic, whilst the second was bestowed on an exanthematic inflammation, which appeared after the existence of eruptive fever, and which was often erratic, and not necessarily solitary. Considered abstractly, inflammation of the skin is the same in its essential characters, whatever appellation may be given, and whatever modification may exist. But if we connect it with its causes, which again must have an influence on the practice, there may, notwithstanding the e^mological objection, and the difficulty of always making an accurate discrimination, be a propriety in keeping up the distinction, if we strictly define erythema to be a local inflammation, produced by an exciting cause, operating directly on the part, and look on the fever where it exists as symptomatic, and erysipelas to be a constitutional disease, preceded by idiopathic fever, and similar to other exanthemata. In both, previous disorder of the system, or172 a broken habit, as it is called, can only be viewed as giving a predisposition. It has been supposed that this inflammation, whether called erysipelatous or erythematic, was a peculiar inflammation, and sui generis. The ancient writers could not do otherwise than suppose so, as phlegmonous inflammation was imagined to proceed from the blood, whilst erysipelas arose from the bile. The doctrine of essential difference is still maintained, from opinions perhaps not much more correct. First, from the preconceived notion that inflammation is a salutary pro- cess, an action of the vis medieatrix, and finding that no good ever resulted, or could even be imagined from this inflamma- tion, it became necessary either to abandon the previous posi- tion, or to maintain that this is not a proper inflammation. The latter alternative was adopted, and this was called a diseased action, a bastard of the vis medieatrix, entitled to no participa- tion in the privileges and honours of its legitimate childien. Second, from not attending to the fact, that inflammation is more apt to spread along the texture in which it has begun, than to dive or sink down to the parts below. When inflam- mation begins on the surface, either of the body or of a viscus, it is more disposed to extend along that surface, than to go deeper. The tendency to spread then, is not peculiar to erysipelas, nor greater in it than in any other inflammation, if we take predisposition and other circumstances into account. We hear of erysipelatous inflammation of the peritonaeum, and other serous membranes, but is not this a gratuitous ' appellation. What is the distinction between erysipelas of the peritonaeum, and simple peritonitis? Is it the operation of a contagion ? Be it so, this is a difference in the exciting- cause, not in the essential quality of the action, in so far as inflammation is concerned. There may be a contagious erysi- pelas, as well as a contagious phlegmon, but does this prove that phlegmonous and erysipelatous inflammation differ in any one respect from each other, except in the texture affected. . , Inflammation of the skin may be produced, as in othei173 parts, by the immediate operation of stimulants; as, for example, hot water or cantharides, but it is also apt to be engendered under the following circumstances. 1. We know that inflammation, or even irritation, of cer- tain parts below the skin, can act so on the covering as to produce erythema. In this case we have two distinct sets oi inflammation or irritation, the deeper which is the cause, and the superficial which is the sympathetic effect, whilst for some time at least the intermediate texture may be little affected. But if this state continue long, the two inflamma- tions are apt to meet at last in the intermediate texture. Temporary excitement of the deeper part will produce tem- porary erythema of the skin, as we see in those paroxysms of excitement which occur in many tumours. Is not, for instance, erythema a frequent attendant on cancerous tumour; and it may spread to a considerable distance, then subside, go off, and in a time return. In this case, however, the intermediate cellular substance is very apt to inflame, and soon a permanent induration takes place. Inflammation of a lymphatic gland has the same effect; and in this as well as in some other cases, the erythema may spread to the extent of several inches, although the gland be not larger than an almond, especially if the gland be closely connected either with a tendon or aponeurosis. Irritation or inflammation of lymphatic vessels can be traced by the eye by the line of erythema produced; and who does not know the tendency of a puncture of a fascia or fibrous membrane, to produce this effect ? 2. Irritation of various kinds, affecting organs much deeper and more remote, may produce external inflammation or red- ness, provided these have a delicate sympathy with the surface. For the production of this effect, it is by no means necessary t at the internal irritation or disorder should be attended with pain or any sensation. Some of these occasion fugacious effloresence, others true inflammation. These, but particu- larly the former, often vary in degree, as the process of diges- tion goes on, or as different chylopoietic viscera are excited174 ov irritated. The production of urticaria, erysipelas, &c., by irritation of the liver, alimentary canal, or uterus, is now well known, and generally admitted. There may be, as one of the exanthemata, an efflorescence or erysipelas produced by internal causes: so may there be boils and phlegmons. As one phlegmon may differ from another in modification, depending on the exciting cause, so may one cutaneous or erythematic inflammation differ from another. They are all, however, modifications of one and the same action, the differential qualities depending not on the inflammatory action, but on what may be said to be appended to it. This connexion between the state of internal and remote parts, is illustrated by gout and by gangrenous affections of the extremities, apparently connected with the existence of disease in the lungs, spleen, liver, and heart. It is not found that this tendency can be explained by obstruction of circulation, for it is less frequent in those cases where t e organic affection of the heart or aorta would lead to expect it to be greatest. For a more particular illustration of the modus operandi of this class of causes, I refer to a preceding ^3 °By a combination of local injury with those internal irritations, we often have erythema produced when it would not take place from either cause singly, and we detect t ns bv the presence of those symptoms, or circumstances which indicate disorder of the chylopoietic organs. A oca injury often increases, or even produces disorder of the digestive functions, and this again reacts on the local affection. is a fact that is too little attended to, and yet how many can date their bad health, or perhaps a fatal disorder, to a lal 01 external injury, which at the time appeared trivial. Sprains l iniuries attended with much pain, often pioduce an n t f chylopoietic viscera, and are followed by derangement ot me ciry t urticaria and other cutaneous affections. This must be still more apt to take place where there is already a diseased liver, or a stomach greatly impaired; and hence eve,y one175 knows how dangerous a severe wound is, when the patient lias what is called a broken constitution, or has been leading an intemperate life. It is according as the first or second species of irritation prevails, that the erythema or erysipelas has been denominated phlegmonous or bilious. The phlegmonous, as it is called by Fabritius, was also denominated the impure, from supposing that the bile, the reputed cause of erysipelas, was greatly diluted with blood, or the cause of phlegmon. The bilious, again, was called the pure erysipelas, from supposing that it pioceeded more purely from bile. These terms have been brought more into notice by Desault. The phlegmonous, that is, the inflammation unconnected with gastric disor- der is supposed to be characterised by the swelling being more distinct or greater, the colour deeper red, and the hardness more, the pungent pain varied, at intervals, by throbbing sen- sation, the pulse is fuller and harder, but the chief distinction is the absence at first of nausea and other symptoms, indicating a redundancy of bile. The bilious, is distinguished by the swel- ling being less, often trifling, there is painful smarting without throbbing, the colour is red, inclining to yellow, the appetite is early lost, the tongue moist, and somewhat yellow, the taste bitter, the eye yellowish, and the strength is soon impaired, and the spirits dejected. The skin is hot, but not very dry. Now it is evident, that, if in practice, we attempt hom this description to form the diagnosis, we must chiefly select the indication of gastric disorder; but it is a nov\n fact, that any considerable local disease soon affects the stomach, aijd therefore granting these marks to be as dis- criminative at first, as Desault himself could have imagined, jet they can be of little service in the progress, and can only meiit attention as diagnostic, in the commencement. Indeed, Desault admits, that by venesection, the first soon changes into the second species. Still, if these symptoms be peculiar at first to the different species, they must be useful in forming , J/ldSment; but this again will hinge on the question, W let ler tlie difference depends on the biliary secretion, or176 merely on the action of the chylopoietic viscera. It was an ancient opinion, that erysipelas depended on the presence of bile, but this is quite disproved by the fact, that jaundice is not attended with erysipelas. It may from this alone be decided, that bile does not necessarily, or without other aid, produce this inflammation. Next, it may be inquired, whether excitement of the liver is peculiarly a cause, or whether the redundancy of bile, where it exists, and any alteration in the function of the liver, be not, as well as the erysipelas, mere effects of disorder in the alimentary canal; or whether, even in those cases where disease of the liver is known to exist, that does not act by influencing the stomach and duodenum. It is probable that the modus operandi is not always the same, and that sometimes the liver, and sometimes the bowels, are the primary cause; but generally, I believe, it is through the sympathy, direct or indirect, of the alimentary canal with the skin, that erysipelas, when it is dependant on gastric irritation, is produced, and the bilious symptoms, as they are called, are merely concomitant effects. In corroboration of this opinion, I observe, that certain kinds of aliment, and some irritating substances taken into the stomach, excite exanthemata; and again the uterus, as well as the liver, when diseased, is capable of producing the same effect, which is probably by influencing the stomach and bowels. If this view of cutaneous inflammation be correct, it may be deduced as a practical rule, that we may generally, by the co-operation of local remedies, safely endeavour to check that which arises from irritation in the immediate neighbourhood of the affection, or from any cause in general not internal; whilst that which proceeds from disorder of the alimentary canal, or any other internal cause, cannot be judiciously or safely attacked or repelled, as it is called, by local means alone, without the use of such remedies as shall contribute to the removal of that cause ; for till that be done, there is reason to fear that, even if driven from one part, it would be apt to appear in another, or, that diseased action might be thrown on a vital organ, with which both the skin and the alimentaryr/7 canal sympathized. Accordingly, we have known fatal coma and other bad effects, succeed the injudicious use of repellants in erysipelas. Erythema may attend wounds under two circumstances. It may arise directly from the irritation of the wound, or it may be more dependant on a bad state of the system. In wounds of tendonous parts, and fibrous membranes, more paiticulaily if these be lacerated, irritated by the presence of foieign substances, especially if these be of either a stimulating 01 poisonous nature, or have been much and suddenly dis- tended, or otherwise affected, so as to be brought into a state of much excitement or inflammation, erythema is apt to be produced. In this case the skin inflames, from sympathy with a part in its vicinity, which is in a state of great irrita- tion and high sensibility. This state may exist without actual inflammation, but in injured parts it seldom does, and is generally combined with inflammation. The preventive here, supposing the constitution to be good, is to have the part at first cleaned, and every mean resorted to for produc- ing adhesion, and preventing inflammation. Even if union of the deeper parts cannot be effected, or inflammation of these prevented, it is of importance to get the skin to adhere, as it is thus less apt to inflame, than when in a state of raw- ness and irritation. This also lessens the tendency of the parts below to inflame. When the disease has taken place in a good constitution, the practice is to allay pain and irrita- tion of the injured part, or promote suppuration if adhesion have failed. These purposes are best fulfilled by occasionally wetting the parts with water slightly cold, that is, nearly tepid, or with water mixed with a little spirits, or weak solution of acetate of lead. Cold water seldom agrees, and when of the winter temperature, generally increases the pain, and if lornr continued, weakens the part. Hot water is not proper, on the other hand. The patient’s sensations should be attended to in regulating the temperature; but, especially when the parts below the erythema are inflamed or irritated, tepid fomenta- tions are both the most useful and the most agreeable Yet tfiere are exceptions to this rule, where the temporary N178 application of moderate cold is more pleasant and useful. These must be determined by experiment. If these means do not speedily give relief, we should use tepid or even warm fomentations, and emollient poultices to promote suppuration. Venesection is to be resorted to or not, according to the deoree of fever and the state of the local inflammation; but O . whilst we in external injuries bleed as freely as may be neces- sary to allay or subdue high inflammation, we should be care- ful not to go beyond this point, and bring the patient into a degree of debility, which would render recovery from a state of irritation, accompanied perhaps with profuse suppuration, very difficult. Leeches applied to the inflamed skin, may, or may not, be proper, according to the degree and activity ot the inflammation, and the vigour as well as the soundness of the constitution, but particularly in so far as they can or cannot be expected to relieve any deeper or subcutaneous disease, with which the erythema is connected. If employed at all, they ought to be applied effectively. When parts firmly covered with fascia have been punctured, or partially torn, a division of that fascia may be necessary, either when it is much dis- tended by swelling of the parts below, or when matter is con- fined. The last case is so obvious that none can doubt the propriety, but the first has been disputed, as it is said the tumour will go off when the inflammation abates. Ihis is true, but it is no less so, that tension of fibrous membrane is a very effectual means of keeping up inflammation. As the local disease is apt to produce sympathetic disorder of the chylopoietic viscera, or of the nervous system, which will in its turn re-act on the original disease, it is evident that means must be used to allay such disorder when it occurs, or if possible to prevent its production. This is best done by light diet, keeping the bowels regular, and obviating symptoms as they may arise. When pain cannot be allayed by the local means pointed out, an opiate should be given, conjoined with a laxative. There should be a free ventilation ot air, and the temperature should be determined by the sensation of the patient. If suppuration take place, the abscess seldom is raised so as to become in any degree conical, but it lies179 more flat and loose under the skin. A warm poultice should be immediately applied, and the part opened when matter has distinctly formed. If any slough steeped in pus, come to present at the orifice, it ought to be cautiously brought away, and in all cases gentle support with a bandage will be uselul to promote healing, and prevent the farther infiltration of matter along those cells, which are in a manner sound. Pus eithei extends along the cells, or these become sloughy, and it extends under them, and above the fascia. When erythema attends an wound in a healthy person, it will generally be found that the original irritation is positively high. But in a broken or diseased habit, it may be produced by slight injuries, more especially in those parts which are remote rom the heart, and previously weaker or more easily injured, such as the inferior extremities. In such, cases a slight abrasion of the skin, particularly if at the same time it°be much irritated, or otherwise injured or bruised, is very apt to produce extensive erythema. How much more may this be expected to take place in more severe laceration of the integu- ments, with puncture, tearing, and distention of the tendons, ligaments, or fibrous expansion below, or in compound frac- tures, or in limbs which are crushed or severely mangled, or partially torn off. In all of these, from the slightest to the most extensive injury, erythema is apt in sunk habits to arise, and add greatly to the danger of a case, difficult enough in Used to manage. It proves an additional source of irritation to the system, is a sure guide to the spreading of gan^ene when that takes place, and often a bar to the operation of amputation, when that might otherwise have saved the patient. Besides the risks in this case from abscesses and extensive umeatiy ulceration, there are two other more immediate sources of danger. The one is the exhausting irritation com- municated to the system, for the local disease acts on the system, as well as the system acted on it. The other is the production of mortification. ma?? §reat aim m a11 theSG iniuries> whatever their decree y be is to prevent inflammation. In a broken or irritable hsb,t> there is - too slight to ba despised, and frl180 the tearing of the finger nail to the mangling or crushing ot the limb itself, one principle must be our guide. In all cases where there is a reasonable chance of adhesion taking place, the production of that ought to be our earnest and primary endeavour, as we thereby most effectually prevent inflamma- tion. When we cannot succeed in this, or have no hope of doing so, our next object is to procure suppuration as soon as possible. When the injury is severe, and the constitution greatly impaired, it comes to be both a delicate and important question, whether the risk is to be diminished or increased by the removal of the part itself. From the peculiar character of the skin, a very slight laceration or fretting may, from the particular kind of injury done to the nervous extremities, cause first inflammation at the mere spot, and then, especially if the constitution be bad, a rapid propagation of it. In such cases, I am satisfied that if the part be not extensively injured, it would be better to cut away the abraded and lacerated skin, and leave a clean wound. In debilitated habits, erythema may spread from the injured part under two conditions. It may extend along the skin, whilst the corresponding parts below are tolerably healthy, or the deeper parts may keep pace with, or even proceed farther in disease than the surface. This is evidently the most dangerous of the two. ... c , The treatment consists in allaying the irritation o t e wound itself by mild dressings or poultices, procuring a free discharge of matter, affording a gentle support to the parts, and applying to the inflamed skin lotions, of the temperature which is most agreeable. Neither hot nor very cold applica- tions in general do good. They may consist of pure cam- phorated spirit of wine, down to water itself, with scarcely any admixture of this spirit, according to the effect produced m allaying pain and smarting; but I believe that water or wnak solution of acetate of lead, will in general be more useful an very stimulating applications. There is little ..me a lowed to rectify the constitution. All that we can hope for is to pre- vent farther derangement, and obviate the effects ot debt y, by attention to the bowels, regulation of the- diet, and h181 administration of cordials and tonics, as will be more property pointed out in considering the inflammatio debilis, to which this should now be referred. There is an inflammation which may sometimes come under the definition of erythema, and sometimes of erysipelas, but as it can be of little utility to consider it under both heads, I shall, without disputing whether it may be most pro- perty referred to one or other, or occasionally to both, proceed to notice it. I allude to what has been called erysipelas of the head, consequent to external injury. It has been noticed fiom the earliest ages, and was, perhaps, without any excep- tion, considered as dependant on the local injury. The skin alone might be primarily inflamed; and this, which was con- sidered as the slightest degree, was supposed to be distinguished by the ears participating in the swelling. If they remained uninvolved, then the case was viewed as worse, and as depend- ing on disease of the aponeurosis, pericranium, or even the rain itself. This was considered as still more apt to happen in those who were of a bilious temperament, for bile was looked on as a principal cause of erysipelas, and one chief point of attention was to decide whether the tumour arose from bile alone, in which case it was pure erysipelas, or from bile with a great admixture of blood, in which case it was phlegmonous. All agreed in the necessity of employing purga- tives to evacuate the bile, but some insisted as much on the propriety of venesection, as others contended against it, and both adduced authority m their support. Fabritius endea- voured to act as moderator between the two, and proposed that in erysipelas of the head, face, or neck, whatever its character might be, we should bleed as well as purge. In pure, or as it is now called, bilious erysipelas of other parts, he slid we should only use evacuants, whilst in phlegmonous erysipelas o any part, we should also bleed. Most practitioners were airaid of repellents in rose of the head, lest the membrane °. '16, m slloultl !>e inflamed, and rather employed oil of almonds or other bland applications. If the skin alone were ”t woukM * ^ ^ '’'f WaS d0ne’ and the diseas« treated as It would have been elsewhere. But if the ears were not182 affected, it was thought necessary to make a few incisions through the occipito-frontalis-tendon and pericranium, or occasionally through the temporal muscles, to remove tension, and unbridle the parts, as it was called Efforts were also made to promote suppuration, which was esteemed as a gi eat secu rity against both the spreading ol the extei nal disease, and inflammation of the membranes of the brain. The late Mr. Pott, more disposed to practical than theoretical distinc- tion, admitted also two species of this affection of the head. One arising more immediately from irritation of the scalp; the colour was deep red, the headach acute, attended with much fever, and even delirium, and the feeling of tension was considerable. If it spread over the whole head, it seldom affected the ears, supercilii, and eyelids. In this lie b ec freely, and, like Le Dran, cut to the bone to unbridle the parts. The other was more bilious, the skm was yellow is i, the inflammation more extensive, and communicated to t le ears and coverings of the eyes; there was no gieat Pain nor tension, nor fatiguing restlessness, but there was gieatei nausea. We have here, in ffvct, from practice, a description of the two theoretical species of impure and pure eDslPe as‘ Desault afterwards reverted to the phlegmonous and bilious; teaching, however, that the former was convertible, U°° ‘ letting, into the latter, and that the best remedy for the lattet was not neutral salts, but tartrate of antimony, given in small, but frequent doses, so as to purge freely, rather than toexci e vomiting. To neither of these propositions am I disposed to subscribe. That the character of erythema may, and gene- rally does change by continuance, I am well convinced o , but this arises from the fact I have stated, that local diseases disorder the internal viscera, and these again react on the disease It is time, therefore, and not venesection, winch converts phlegmonous into bilious erysipelas, if these terms are to b/retained. As to the practical proposition, I mu say that I have never seen any superiority in antmioma pie- pm-atimis over other laxatives; but, on the contrary, am of 1 • • tint in so far as they produce sickness and depiession, :Cr0’htr mse a Jtfons are often accompanied by183 some degree ol delirium, or by drowsiness, or even stupor, and long ago it was remarked by Le Dran, that they caused the same symptoms, as concussion of the brain. It does not appear, however, that these symptoms are connected essentially with the accident, for they are just as apt to take place when erysipelas proceeds from any other cause, how- evei obscure, dhe disease, when it succeeds an injury of the head, does not appear to depend on the condition of the biain 01 its coverings, but on the state of the scalp and peri- cranium. But when it is produced, it, as we have just seen, tends to interfere with the functions of the brain; and partly thus, and partly in the same way that erythema of any other place would act, it exercises a sympathetic effect on the organs of digestion, and may, in its turn, become influenced thereby. It will be very difficult to prove that erythema of the head ever takes place from an injury of the parts within the cra- nium, independent of external irritation, or is in any respect different from that produced by contusion, wound, or lacera- tion of the hand or foot, except in so far as, after its produc- tion, it may occasion this interference with the brain lying below, and the sympathetic effects resulting therefrom. Yet even in this respect, it is not singular; for, as we shall soon see, severe inflammation of other parts of the skin, from scalding, for example, can produce exactly the same result; and the only reason why the former, ceteris paribus, does it more frequently than the latter is, that it is more in the vici- nity of the brain. To be plain, this erythema may, in injuries of the head, seriously affect the brain, but it is rarely, if ever produced by disease confined within the cranium; and therefore I have noticed it here rather than hereafter. There is nothing peculiar in the treatment of this disease, nor can the moderns advise much more than the older writers. Ihe seat of the injury is to be carefully attended to. If there be no wound, but only a puffy or a tense swelling, we cannot do better than follow the old practice of dividing the part down to the bone. If there be an wound, that will generally e found in a state of irritation, and a small bread and milk poultice is the best application. * To the surrounding erythema,184< there should no cold or repellent application be made, as there is danger thereby of transferring inflammation to the brain or its coverings. Some soft defence is all that is required, such as a little cotton wool. The vesications, when they burst, may be slightly dusted with chalk or flour, and if the eyelids be affected, and their glands discharge muco-purulent matter, that should be gently washed away as often as necessary. When the constitution is not impaired by intemperance or other causes, but more especially in what is called the phleg- monoid species, blood should be taken away, and, in all, the bowels should be at first freely opened, and afterwards kept strictly regular. We ought not, however, to push the purging in any instance, far less in broken habits, to a great degree, but should act rather on the principle of exciting a nature, action, and restoring a healthy function, than on that oi pro- ducing evacuation. Bile, when it is present, 01 othei iuita. ing or bad excrementitious matter, must assuredly be removec; but the indiscriminate and liberal use of cathartics, more espe- cially the depressing one of antimony, I can by no means approve of. It is well to vary the prescription; calomel, jalap, senna, the neutral salts, colocynth, &c. may be given in moderate doses separately or combined. In this, as well as in other cases of erythema, independent of mechanical injury, it sometimes happens that suppuration takes place, and spreads extensively under the scalp. W herever matter forms, it ought to be evacuated by a dependant open- ing and if the parts will bear it, a bandage should be applied, so°as to prevent the matter from spreading. If this diffusion have taken place, the scalp is found to be extensively separated from the cranium, and from lodgment of matter it shakes under the touch of the finger. The probe discovers the bone bare, and in some places, perhaps rough. Proper counter-openings ouo-ht to be made, and if portions of the tendon of the occipito- frontalis muscle be found to be destroyed, forming sloughs like macerated parchment, they are to be cautiously extracted. From the irritation or absorption of matter, the glands about the throat swell and suppurate, so that in bad cases, the scalp undermined, openings forth, or require to be made over is185 the temporal muscle, behind the ear, at the angle of the jaws, and below the chin ; add to all this evil, the original open- ings formed, or artificially made on the upper part of the head, the whole scalp little better than a loose cap laid on the skull, in many places bare and rough, the tongue foul, the appetite impaired, and the patient little less than hectic. Let all these be taken into consideration, and the case will appear sufficiently unpromising; yet even in these circum- stances, it is astonishing how soon, by counter-openings, ban- dages, poulticing the glands, and opening them when required, promoting digestion, and supporting the strength, the patient gets well, and that without any perceptible exfoliation. In other cases, doubtless, whether from negligence, or the still greater severity of the disease, or the influence of a scrofulous habit, the patient sinks under hectic, and the bones at death are found unusually rough, in many places appearing like worm-eaten wood, and perhaps here and there destroyed down to the dura mater. It remains still shortly to notice the speciality connected with exanthematous inflammation, or erysipelas, which may take place either without any obvious local exciting cause, or in consequence of external injury or irritation. Till we know more of the sympathetic effect of the alimentary organs on the skin, we cannot explain why in one case the head, and in another the foot, should be affected; but whether we adopt the notion of direct but inexplicable sympathies between one part and another, or proceed on the principle that it is through the medium of the state induced at the origin of the nerves we know it to be a fact, that one part of the canal may sym- pathise more with certain districts of the surface than the rest or perhaps even different action of the same part may influ- ence different districts. We know that one kind of irritation or disorder of one part of the canal, produces pain in or over t ie right eye; in other cases it is the left which is affected sometimes the back of the head, sometimes the front or the Vely top’ ol' tl,e jaws- If "'<■ soy that the origin of the nerves diiW8 thr T? ^ irritated> we mereIy “"ounce that paits of the sensorium commune may at different186 times be affected, in consequence of abdominal disorder. But besides adverting to the possibility of a particular connexion between one part within, and another without, there may be at the time existing a strong predisposition in one portion of the surface to disease, although the cause of that have been over- looked, or some exciting causes acting on the part to be inflamed may have been too slight to be noticed at the moment of their operation. The influence of the digestive organs on the surface and on local disease, is now so generally admitted, that I need say little more on that subject; but 1 fear it has not been equally attended to, that local alterations, whether in sensation, or the nature or degree of action, have a powerful effect on the digestive organs. The one is just as frequent as the other; and the facility with which these organs shall be disordered by local and distant causes, or by mental affections, depends on their previous state with regard to health or vigour, and the delicacy or irritability of the individual. Nor is It always the exciting part which suffers most in this way. A man of an irritable and susceptible habit, or whose abdo- minal viscera are easily disordered, shall meet with an acci- dent, lacerating, or painfully injuring the foot, and presently the digestion goes wrong, and the injured part becomes worse, and erythema attacks it. Here the exciting part suffers, and even death may be the consequence. Another man exactly of the same habit sprains his ankle. Very soon, as in the former case, a similar effect is produced on the digestion, but the influence of this is not obviously exerted on the joint, but on some part of the surface. In a few days, distressing urti- caria may appear, or erysipelas attacks the head or a distant part, the predisposition of which can seldom be ascertained. Aoain, a man has an obstinate and irritable sore, which affects the o-eneral system, and after an attack of fever, the sore inflames and sloughs. Then it begins to heal, when again the same mischief is repeated ; and thus we may have many successive re-actions of the sore on the system, and the system on the sore. There is every reason to admit also, that m some cases erysipelas arises from the operation of a contagion. It is187 universally known, that in some seasons erysipelas is exceed- ingly prevalent, but this may be attributed to atmospheric influence, but it is no less a fact, that both in hospitals and private families, where it is introduced, it sometimes attacks different individuals, from which it is evident that one species at least is contagious, like many of the other exanthemata, and this is usually more severe than those cases which arise horn othei causes. In such seasons, I have observed urticaria to be also severe, and to end in minute vesications, forming blackish patches. Erysipelas, or exanthematic erythema, shall generally be found to depend on some disorder of the chylopoietic viscera, which has either been slowly increasing, or has been suddenly excited; and hence, after a surfeit or hard drinking, many are speedily affected with rose. It is preceded by fever, but it is seldom long before the efflorescence appears; and, indeed, the accurate Sydenham notices that it invades rather sud- denly. The degree of fever is variable, but in general it is considerable, and attended with much heat, more or less nausea, and in no long time with depression and debility. The tongue is loaded, and the appetite lost, the thirst is con- siderable, the bowels are constipated, and the urine scanty and high coloured. The eye is dull, and not unfrequently there is headach or slight delirium; but, unless when the ery- sipelas is seated in the head, there is seldom drowsiness bor- dering on coma, yet these symptoms may attend even erysipelas oi the legs. The inflammation appears first in one or more sma 1 patches. If one, it soon extends; if more, they meet. In the head, one side is usually first affected, and soon after- wards it spreads to the other, and perhaps down the neck but it is more apt to affect the upper than the under part’ and the face is attacked oftener than the scalp. The whole features are swollen, but chiefly the eyelids and nose. In the hmbs, it usually appears near their extremities. In the arm or instance, near the wrist, and is more likely to spread to ■e back ot the hand than go upwards, and sometimes it it ! mn’rT 15 C01,fined t0 the hand and In the leg, most frequent near the ankle. It begins oftener on ,1m188 front than the back of the leg, but generally at last encircles the member. On the trunk, it appears first on the lower part of the belly below the umbilicus, and tends toward the groin and scrotum. The colour is scarlet, inclining to yellow, but very gentle pressing with the finger, by forcing the blood out of the capillaries, removes entirely the redness from that spot for a second or two. The colour sometimes is darker, and, ceteris paribus, the more it approaches to that of the damask rose, the greater is the danger. The papillae are sel- dom so much deepened in colour as in some cases ol erythema. The sensation is that of heat and smarting, rather than pain, and whenever there is much pain, there is generally a deeper colour, and corresponding danger. Vesications almost uni- formly appear, either numerous and minute, or large and few. In the first case, they shrink, and small scabs are formed. In the second, either larger crusts, produced by the drying of the exudation, or addition of some farinaceous powder, succeed to vesication, or ulceration is produced. Sometimes, from a combination of superficial ulceration and deeper suppuration, ending in sinuses, a very troublesome and obstinate state is induced. Erysipelas occurring in a very disordered habit, or arising from a debilitating contagion, is attended with gieat pain, and is apt to end in mortification. There are, how- ever, a few examples of this event following erysipelas wrheie the sensation has not been acute. These are rare, and foul spreading ulceration is a more frequent consequence. The duration of erysipelas is uncertain ; but it seldom lasts abo\ e a week, unless in the worst cases where it tends to gangiene. All who have written respecting erysipelas, notice the ten- dency to metastasis, or the bad effects which follow from sudden retrocession. Even when there is no speedy repulsion, the internal viscera may suffer, and of these the head and stomach are most exposed. The first, when affected, produces headach, delirium, and coma; the second, tenderness at the epigastrium on pressure, then more continued pain, with retching. It is, however, difficult, in many instances, to say whether this obscure inflammation may not have existed from the first in the epigastric region, and been indeed a cause of the erysipelas.189 I would not wish, however, to be understood to say, that when stupor or drowsiness, or even delirium attend erythema or erysipelas, we are to consider the meninges of the brain to be affected. Ihese symptoms, doubtless, are produceable by a metastasis, but may, in a great majority of instances, take place without this. The high excitement of the sentient extremities of the nerves by the inflammation, often causes toi por of their origin, and all the symptoms of hydrocephalus, without one drop of water, or any trace of inflammation being discoverable. There has always been a difference of opinion regarding the proper treatment of this disease. Some, at the head of whom we may place Galen, refrained from bloodletting, and trusted to purgatives for evacuating bile. Others following Celsus, had recourse to the lancet. Fabritius endeavoured to 1 econcile the two, by saying that Galen did not prohibit vene- section, but only said it was not necessary. Celsus prevailed, and although the lancet was not pushed with an unsparing hand, it was rather a favourite, but never to the prejudice o*f the apothecary. Sydenham, an accurate observer, bled once and again in the disease, and excuses his practice by remark- ing, that the blood is like that in pleurisy. He also gave laxatives freely. The practice of surgeons was nearly the same. They bled even in rose of the face, applied blisters behind the ears, which were considered as emunctories, nor were they, as we find by the histories of Turner, afraid to apply leeches to the temples, and blisters to distant parts, to draw away the inflammation. Decoction, or posset, as it was called, of the four greater cold seeds was given at first, and if this failed, a whey made with milk, Epsom water, and manna; a pieparation which may still be prescribed without disgust. Venesection is now practised with circumspection in^this disease; and in those patients who are of a delicate or debili- tated habit, it is altogether avoided. The safest practice is to avoid extremes, and not adhere pertinaciously to one rule When blood is taken, it ought to be early, and the evacu ^on seldom requires to be repeated. This, however, is not a Positive rule, although a general one. But it is a flict, that190 the prompt use of the lancet is usually safe, whilst later evacuations are hurtful; and it is as much from the mistimed employment of the remedy, as from any harm that venesec- tion as a general practice has ever done, that a prejudice has arisen against the lancet. The direction must be taken from the degree of inflammation, and the violence of the fever, rather than from the temperament; yet that must not be overlooked, for, ceteris paribus, we could bleed with more advantage in a vigorous and plethoric habit than in an oppo- site state. When the disease attacks the former, and more especially when it succeeds to exposure to cold, blood ought to be taken ; but when it occurs in the very young, or the old, or extenuated, or is attended with much depression, then evacuation is not to be practised. When the pulse is frequent and throbbing, and the heat considerable, and the local disease high, more especially when it is of the phlegmonoid kind, and the cellular texture is participating in the action, bleeding does good, and not only moderates the fever, but mitigates the local inflammation ; but it must never be pushed beyond the point of necessary mitigation, for it cannot be expected in any extent to effect an immediate cure. We must also never forget, if we bleed freely, more especially in delicate habits, or where the system has been in a state of continued excitation barely compatible with appearance of health, and ready to give way under a moderate disease, that whilst we do not cure the disease, we weaken the system, and render it less able to sustain a protracted disease, especially it suppu- ration be expected. It is only, then, in so far as we hope by mitigating the present fever and the local inflammation, to lessen the future severity, and diminish the effort to be made by the system, that venesection is to be employed. When the fever is moderate, the inflammation more confined to the cutis, and not severe, it is not required ; and when there are great depression or languor, and small pulse, and dusky hue of the part, it is hurtful. The similarity between the state of the pulse in this case and enteritis, is no argument for evacuation ; and I am well convinced, that if a positive and invariable rule were to be laid down, either to bleed all or to bleed none, the191 ^ __ » latter would be the safest, though certainly a most indefensible plan. Our object, whether we use the lancet or employ medi- cine, is rather to mitigate than to cure,—to lessen the violence, rather than shorten the duration,—to obviate the subsequent risk of a serious and tedious termination, rather than cut short the erysipelas itself, which runs a certain course, and cannot be immediately annihilated by any means. When bleeding is required, great benefit is derived from the early co-operation of laxatives, and in most cases, though certainly not in all, these are of themselves sufficient for every useful purpose. A pretty smart and efficient purgative should be given at first, and afterwards the action of the bowels is to be kept up, without carrying it to any great degree. We may begin with compound powder of jalap, conjoined with from one to three of the pil. hyd., and afterwards employ, daily, rhubarb and magnesia, with ginger, or suitable doses of compound extract of colocynth, or infusion of senna with an aromatic. Occasionally, small doses of calomel, or rather the pil. hyd. may be conjoined, when bile appears abundant. I am not able to say that weak solution of tartrate of antimony has had any specific advantage. When there is much depres- sion, it increases that, and is to be avoided; when there is not, it may be employed, more particularly when venesection is proper. As sickness lessens the force of the circulation, an diminishes that of the capillary system of the surface it may be thought that nausea, induced by this medicine, should be advantageous. It is, however, one thing to sink or depress action, and another to change it, and experience does not ofTe r ! ^ °fthlS P1’aCdce in alterinS the actlon« One of the best internal medicines is the saline jalap pleasantlv prepared, which not only never does harm, but if prescribed selves to keep both the patient and the physician, from employ’ mg more active and doubtful remedies. P °y' Un^lvoid^Th ‘T SPa™S and digeStab,e’ and a" sti™- the sensation." temPerature to be made agreeable to When the patient is recovering, advantage results from the192 use of infusion of bark or quinine, or some light tonic, con- joined with a mild aperient. The use of opium and cordials will come to be considered under the inflammatio debilis, to which I must refer this disease when it tends towards gangrene. When there is metastasis to the membranes of the brain, purgatives, and detraction of blood from a vein, or from the head itself, by cupping or leeching in the vicinity, will be proper. When the stomach becomes tender, leeches should be applied to the epigastrium, and the part afterwards fomented for a length of time. With respect to local applications, there has been much diversity of opinion. So long ago as the time ol Hippocrates, it was remarked that a repulsion of the erysipelas, or a metastasis to an internal part, especially the brain, was a dangerous or fatal event. Yet Celsus had no hesitation after bleeding to apply reprimentia and refrigerantia, cerussa mixed with juice of solanum, over which was laid the leaf of beet, and above all a cloth wet with cold water. Many who nominally rejected astringents practically used them, employing applications to mitigate inflammation, which, if they acted at all, must have done so as repellents. Such was the epithema of equal parts of lime water and camphorated spirit of wine, with the addition of Castile soap. The most popular remedy in this country is o-enerally applied cold, namely, flour, which is grateful only when first sprinkled, and is used from a belief that moisture is improper. Dr. Cullen thought it might absorb acrimonious m Unctuous applications have been equally condemned, and yet many employed olive oil. Modern practitioners seldom apply either salves or emollients, but seem more disposed to use lime water, preparations of opium, vegetable astringents, akIn ^e^pelas unaccompanied with much debility, there are two p ans of local treatment, both of which are often useful Tthoilrthey are opposite. The first is, keeping the par cool, not cold, by bathing it frequently with cool water, anc193 then covering the part with a damp cloth, or merely exposing it to the air. The second is accumulating the heat by wrapping the part in cotton. 1 he application of cold to such a degree as to produce the sensation of cold, and more especially a strong sensation, and kept up for a time, is doubly dangerous. It is apt to pioduce a metastasis to an internal part, most frequently the biain, and the patient dies comatose. There is nothing more mysterious in this metastasis of disease, than in the doctrine of sympathy ot equilibiium, which rests on too strong ground, to be disputed, and on which it depends. The sudden removal of any local action, by means acting merely locally, is some- times speedily followed by similar action in a sympathising part. This seldom happens when the disease is removed by means operating through the constitution, or at least by the co-operation of these. In the case in question, there is a double chance of mischief from sudden repulsion; for, in addition to the one just noticed, it is evident, that if the exan- thema have arisen from, or been connected with a disorder of the chylopoietic viscera not yet removed, there must still be a disposition to repeat the mischief. A second way in which this piactice is dangerous, is, by sinking the power of the part itself, if !t do not remove the inflammation. It converts it into inflam- matio debilis, and causes hazard of mortification. It appears then, that there will be very great difference in the effect of applications only slightly cool, and those decidedly cold Bathing with cool water at short intervals, or moistening the sui ace occasionally, and allaying thereby heat and smarting may do good, whilst greater cold would do harm. This prac- tice is most proper and safest in erysipelas of the extremities, for on the head there is greater risk of repulsion. Medicated Icons have also been employed either cold or tepid, such as ° U.10n °/ aCetate of lead’ or lime water, with so small a pro- portion of camphorated spirit of wine as not to smart, or a dram of subcarbonate of ammonia and superacetate of lead dissolved in a pound of rose water, &c. But it is to be doubted iese in general be better than plain water. as t"“‘hel' 7^ ,°f 'reatment is’ ^ “PPiyfcg wool, so • vcuniu ate heat, and give a gentle stimulus to tile part. o194 f in order to lessen the pain. On the same principle, in burns, stimulating applications and heat have been found useful. This is the preferable treatment in all cases where the vigour of the part is impaired, and there is any tendency to mflam- matio debilis. It is doubtless necessary to attend to the actual degree of heat applied, and the slowness or rapidity ol its operation, the duration of its application, and also the nature and density of the medium. But even in other cases it is often found useful and more agreeable than cool applications. It is not easy to say, till trial, which plan shall be best, but the feelings of the patient should be at once consulted; and when the one plan is not agreeable, the other should imme- diately be tried, and that adopted which is found to be most comfortable, comfort and utility going together here, as in most other instances. Vesications ought to be allowed to burst spontaneously, and afterwards healing is best promoted by forming an artifi- cial scab by sprinkling the spot thinly with chalk. It has been proposed to lessen the inflammation by the application of leeches, and it does not appear, that in cases not otherwise disposed to gangrene, any increase of inflam- mation is produced by the bites, whilst benefit has been derived. Still, in cases where the disease is moderate, it is better to abstain from them. On the contiaiy, •wheie theie is a greater inflammation, and more participation of the sub- cutaneous texture, they may, as in phlegmon, be of service in mitigating the disease. In preference to leeches, cupping has been advised, or very numerous punctures with a lancet, sometimes so many as fifty, or incisions an inch and a half in leno-th through the cutis into the cellular substance, and vary- ing their distance from two to four inches, and in number, perhaps amounting to eighteen, or a single long incision down to the fascia, in the middle of the inflamed portion. That these, one and all of them, have done good, I believe; sometimes the redness has rapidly diminished, and in little more than a day, the skin has appeared natural, and the incision begins o unite. Still I must look on the practice as severe and its merits not only overrated, but its evils neglected. 1 lie painis considerable, the scars forbid the practice in parts which are to be seen, and I know the haemorrhage to be in some cases troublesome, and instances I see published where it has been fatal. 1 arther, such incisions and punctures cannot be otherwise than attended with irritation. Who should expect to cure a phlegmon by cutting it up ; and yet where is the great dissi- milarity of the two cases ? I apprehend that the practice will e united to hospitals, and there only with propriety used in extensive erysipelas-of the phlegmonoid kind, as it has been called, when of a high degree, and at an early period. Inci- sions made with a view of evacuating matter, or giving issue to slough of the cellular substance, stand on a different ground, and can seldom, if ever be wrong. When the erysipelas seems disposed to spread fast and far, it is a easible proposal to arrest its progress by destroying a narrow line of skin, and the narrower the better, around it by caustic, as it may be supposed that the cutaneous inflammation could not pass the line of circumvallation formed by the now dead eschar. Tins may be true in some cases, and should be true in every instance, if the inflammation could only travel alono- the cutis, and not along the subcutaneous texture, or if there existed no such condition of the cutaneous nerves as to induce disease 1.1 the neighbourhood, without actual propagation from atom to atom. Not exactly on this principle, but rather on that of inducing a modified inflammation in the boundary, it has oeen proposed to apply a blister on that boundary, but we have not yet had such experience of the effect as to establish the practice. Still less can we trust another modern practice, ar from harmless, of applying a firm bandage round the m amed limb, by way, J presume, of contracting the dis- tended and debilitated vessels. When there is a tendency to inflammatio debilis, spirituous applications are often, as we shall presently see, most proper • and changes will be required in the internal remedies and When suppuration is taking place, or is likely to happen ' °,Ug !l t0 be assistol by the application of warm poultices • 'V ’Cn pm l,as f°™«l it ought, especially if there be a19G tendency to spreading under the skin, to be immediately let out by an opening, and then such uniform and gentle pressure, made by a roller applied over a pledget of lint, is to be resorted to, as the tenderness or local situation of the part will permit. The strength is to be carefully supported by digestible and light nourishment, given as freely as the stomach will bear, and such a proportion of wine is to be added as can be taken, without quickening the pulse and heating the patient. 1 he bowels are to be kept regular, but not loose. Sulphuric acid, bark, and other tonics have been advised, on the principle oi. exciting phlegmonous inflammation, and circumscribing the abscess ; but our only object, in prescribing these, ought to be strengthening the system, or promoting digestion. It will be very difficult to show that the induction of this inflammation is requisite as a preliminary to the cure, or to prove that it actually does take place before the extension of the mattei can be stopt. The last point for consideration, before quitting the subject of inflammation of the skin, is the treatment of scalds and burns. Hildanus, and the older writers, were minute in their subdivision of these according to the severity of the injury, proceeding from the slightest case where the skin was only red and painful, through the gradation of vesication, ulceration, disorganization of the texture, and destruction down perhaps to the bone itself. It is a practical observation, that scalds and burns are dangerous rather in proportion to the extent and delicacy of surface inflamed, than to the actual depth of injury done to the parts. The local effects vary in degree. 1. There may be mere erythema without vesication, or with vesicles so small, that the fluid is readily absorbed, or if it ooze out, a superficial dry scab is formed. This drops off, the part is restored to its colour, and no mark is left. Even in mere erythema there is often tumefaction of the cellular substance below, which is produced chiefly by serous effusion. 2. Vesications to a considerable extent may form, and these breaking, the cutis below, secretes purulent matter, as when cantharides or savine ointments are applied. In this197 case we have no ulceration, which implies granulation. We have merely a secreting surface, without disorganization or destruction of its component parts. The secretion may continue for a considerable time, exudation of lymph takes place, and if evaporation go on briskly, or dry applications be made, a scab or crust covers the surface, and it heals, or it may heal, without interference, by the secretion ceasing, and cuticle forming. In either case no scar is left, but the part temains long red, and for a length of time is apt to become purple in cold weather, or red if the circulation be excited. So long as the vesicles are entire, the pain is less, the papillae not being exposed; but when they break or peel off, the sen- sibility is greater. When they have broken, or the cuticle has been removed by the injuring cause, or in rashly pulling off clothes, the danger is greater in proportion to the pain and irritability of the patient. When colouring matter, as gun- powder, is introduced, either in this or in the degree "first stated, it remains long, producing the effect of tatooing. 3. Ulceration is produced, and this is in general tedious, and much disposed to form fungous granulations. If the sore be small, and the constitution good, the discharge is not dis- pioportionate to its size; but if large, and there be much consequent irritation, or otherwise a disorder of the constitu- tion, the discharge is excessive, and usually ill smelled. After the immediate severity of the injury is over, the pain is not great. There is always a scar left, and often the cicatrix is elevated, smooth, and redder than the rest of the skin. There is also a tendency to puckering of the skin. Ulceration may succeed vesication, but it is inevitable when the cutis is destroyed, or so much inflamed, as to perish either by slouch or rapid absorption. 4. I he subjacent parts are inflamed, or otherwise injured, and not only during ulceration, but also after cicatrization, there is great pain, and thereby inability to use the member. Both the nerves and the tendons are rendered preternaturally sensible, and when the part is made dependant, the pressure °* llle blood is Patnful. There is in this case, in addition to t ic tendency of the cicatrix to contract, a risk of the parts198 below contracting also. I his is especially so about the joints; and from the deep adhesions which form, it is some- times impossible to remedy the evil. In many instances, however, the original seat of contraction is in the skin, and the muscles below, only shorten as a secondary effect. 5. The part, from the first may be destroyed, and eschars formed, which leave after their removal, deep ulcers. Both in this and in the former case, the ulceration is fl.pt to spread i and from the unhealthy state of the vicinity, abscesses and sinuses form, inducing hectic fever, the bones and adjoining joints often becoming diseased, or the patient sinks exhausted without hectic. 6. Mortification may succeed the inflammation produced by the burns. These different degrees are most apt to occur in different kinds of accident. Water, for instance, cannot be heated beyond 212°, whilst oil can be raised to a much greater tem- perature, and melted metals still higher. Water therefore, unless the part be retained in it so long as actually to be boiled, does not produce immediate destruction, but only high inflammation. It is more owing to the difference of temperature and tenacity than to acrimony, that scalding with one fluid is worse than with another. When a part is burned by flame, as, for instance, by clothes taking fire, it is first scorched, and then, if the heat be continued, it is disorgan- ized, roasted, or converted into a cinder. Heat applied by the combustion of gas has the same effect. The explosion of gunpowder near the surface of the body, as, for instance, in a boy’s waistcoat pocket, independent of the effect of the burning clothes, may in a manner torrify the skin instantan- eously, and though no effect of stupefaction be produced, very little pain is felt; the skin is dry and insensible, and unaffected by any application, nor does the extent of the evil, and the real source of danger appear, till the sheet of skin be first raised up by the formation of matter below, and then thrown off in thick pieces. As there is great difference both in the degree and extent of the injury, it is evident that there must be a corresponding \ I199 difference in the effect on the system. In almost every instance of extensive burn, or where sensible parts are affected, or the system is very susceptible, whatever the ultimate effects may be, the patient complains of coldness, and is apt to shiver ; and in such cases, whatever may be the complication with regard to sensibility, shock, &c. the pulse, in most instances, is very small, perhaps imperceptible, and this, if protracted, is always a bad symptom. A very common effect, even of a slight burn, is irritation; a state sometimes confounded with fever, but different from it. It is the consequence of the mere pain, and is marked by an excited condition, particularly of the sentient system. The patient is restless, soon tired of one posture, easily discom- posed both in mind and body, uncomfortable in his feelings, and yet cannot distinctly say how he is so. Ilis sleep is dis- turbed. The pulse, in slight degrees, is not affected, but in greater it is frequent and sharp. The chylopoietic viscera often suffer, and then we have dry tongue, thirst, anorexia, constipation, or diarrhoea, with secretion of bile, or retching, and perhaps an extensive train of sympathies. The continual fretting and exasperation of the system exhausts its power, and at the same time increases the evil, rendering the frame more irritable. A second effect is high sensation, or intolerable pain. This not only exhausts, for mere pain may kill, but it also acts most injuriously on the injured part, and likewise on the system at large, independent of its direct exhausting effect. Great pain, accompanied with shivering, is still worse, but these are seldom long combined; for if the case be severe, stu- por succeeds, and renders the person insensible to pain, or such an obtuse state is produced, as prevents perception. It has been supposed that the absence of pain was a bad sign, but this depends on the degree of injury and concomitant symptoms. It is chiefly to be dreaded when the extent of injury is considerable, the power of perception evidently diminished, <uul the sensibility so far deranged, along with the evolution of l.eat, as to give rise to feeling of coldness, or the production of shivering, or rigor.200 A third effect is quite opposite to irritation. It is that of stupor. rl his is not consequent to previous excitement, which might be supposed to exhaust the system, but it is a sudden torpor of the brain, produced either by the instantaneous shock given to it as the sensorium commune, or somewhat more slowly by the increased sensibility of the scalded part diminishing that ot the brain. The fh'st is effected by sym- pathy of association, the second by sympathy of equilibrium, but the first is the most frequent in its operation. This stupor takes place, ceteris paribus, with a certainty proportioned to the youth of the sufferer. It may occur almost immediately after the accident, but it is more likely to appear after the lapse of one or two hours. The pupils are dilated, the pulse sometimes preternaturally slow, at other times frequent, and the child can with difficulty be roused. The breathing becomes slow and oppressed, the extremities cold, and in a few hours the heart ceases to beat. In more favourable cases, the stupor is inter- rupted by fits of tossing and restlessness, evidently from the pain of the injury. The pulse, if it had been slow, becomes quicker, the eye more sensible, and by degrees all appearances of torpor are removed. It is not to be forgotten, that in very young and irritable children, either the first or second effects may go to a fatal degree, from apparently a very slight cause. A fourth effect is inflammatory fever. This is never met with pure, but is always complicated, and often to a great extent, with irritation. This latter is generally proportioned to the degree of pain, whilst the former is at least much influ- enced by the actual inflammation present. The pure inflam- matory state of a burn soon subsides, for it is not long of end- ing either in ulceration or mortification. A hard and frequent pulse, flushed face, heat of surface, scanty high coloured urine, with lassitude, are the chief marks of this fever, but it seldom lasts long. When there is much irritation, the pulse is seldom full, but it is sharp; there is restlessness with irrita- bility both of body and mind. A fifth effect is exhaustion from various causes. The inflam- matory fever, even when it exists to a considerable degree,201 seldom lasts long, but irritation soon predominates; and when there is much ulceration, the next transition is into hectic. We have irregular chills, sudden glows of heat, cir- cumscribed flush of the cheek, especially in the evening, per- spiration, emaciation, increasing weakness, loss of appetite, and, finally, stupor. There is always in this case profuse dis- charge, the sores are unhealthy, and either very extensive or very far disordered, and complicated with disease of the sub- jacent parts. Even when no hectic takes place, the patient may sink from mere exhaustion, proceeding from the profu- sion of the discharge, as well as the attendant irritation. lhe treatment of burns has been very opposite; but little has been added to the proposals of the earlier writers. The cause being heat, and the sensation that of excessive heat, combined, doubtless, with other modifications of pain, it is natural to suppose that one of the first remedies tried should be cold. All the Arabian authorities speak of this, and recommend it. Some used oil, beat with cold water, others cold water, or iced rose water, or ointments, over which was placed a cloth dipped in iced water. When cold was found to increase pain, their successors employed applications which were supposed to be potentially cold, as the juice of semper- vivum, lettuce, vinegar, &c., but Pare says these should be used a little warm. A popular remedy is a poultice of cold rasped potatoes. A much more favourite class of remedies, however, were the heating. Heat itself was employed, especially in slight cases, and it was supposed that the fire or candle, near which the injured part was held, attracted to itself the heat from that part. Substances potentially hot, or, in other words, stimu- lants, were often used, and consisted of mixtures of onions, salt and soap made into a plaster with oil; or stimulating resinous substances were employed. Hildanus, who seems to have found his “ dulcissima con- junx a source of experience in more disorders than one, says that she having scalded her arm with a boiling tenacious stuff had that immediately washed off with tepid water, and the20c2 plaster just mentioned applied, whereby it was cured, with the formation of merely two small blisters. A third class ol remedies, were mild applications, or sub- stances which at least possessed very slightly stimulating properties, such as the Arabian mixture of lime water and oil, cerussa, and the boles, which were used under the name of cold and dry medicaments. Yolk of eggs, mixed with oil of roses, was used by Rhases, and from Pare we learn that lard mixed with eggs was the usual remedy in his time, at the Hotel Dieu. The Arabians applied this liniment with cotton, a substance which has lately been used dry, and by itself. Modern practitioners are not agreed as to which of these plans should be adopted. Some prefer cold water; others, vinegar cold or tepid, according to the sensation of the patient: others, the more stimulating application of turpen- tine and resinous ointments. Were a burn in a debilitated state, and painful from that cause, simple stimulants should invariably do good. Were it, on the other hand, painful from excitement and inflamma- tion, cold and lowering means should uniformly do good. Now, neither of these positions can be maintained, from fact, to be invariably true. There is inflammatory action, with much sensation. We cannot suddenly remove the first, nor can we by one uniform remedy always allay the second. Our applications, however, must be considered in two views, as affecting directly the action, and as influencing the sensation. Whatever immediately or ultimately relieves the sensation, does good; and whatever, on the other hand, lessens the dis- eased action, relieves the sensation. Without involving myself to little purpose in a labyrinth of speculation on the laws of sensation, I will remark, that the first and plain rule in all cases, is to prevent the farther operation of heat, to remove instantly the exciting cause by applying cold. This, I appre- hend, to be common sense; for surely we can gain nothing by allowing hot or scalding substances to remain in contact with the skin, or even the skin itself to remain heated. The part being cooled, and freed from covering or clothes, the203 next point is, whether shall we continue the cold or apply stimulants and heat. Here the question may be left safely to the patient, if the surgeon will attend to his sensations. There is at first high action and much sensibility, and great sensa- tion of heat, all which are most frequently mitigated by the application of cold; and so long as this proves comfortable, it is doing good, but whenever it fails or ceases to relieve, and is productive ol shivering and general coldness, it must be exchanged for other and opposite means. There is some- thing in this practical rule too humbling to the philosophy of surgery to render it acceptable, but until a more correct one be offered, I fear we must be content with experimental instruction. When the skin alone is inflamed, and the injury not \eiy extensive, cold water or cold vinegar usually agree well, and so long as they relieve the sensation, they should be continued. Then it is often useful to cover the part with dry cotton, and let the patient rest. But when the injured surface is extensive, cold, independently of the tendency there is m such cases to shivering, is apt to cause great and dis- tressing dullness, and cannot be borne. The applications in this case, whatever they may be, require to be tepid. I pro- ceed to remark, that soon the pain of a scald or burn is rather that of tormenting smarting, than of heat. Now, it is chiefly the latter that cold applications relieve, for they lave no special property in allaying smarting, more than aching or itching, and whenever cold ceases to allay the pain- u sensation, it begins to increase pain. An intense degree of cold applied to a sound part of the skin, gives pain, and a moderate degree applied to a part morbidly sensible will o-ive just as much; hence, few people can bear to have a blistered part washed with cold water. As the scalded part has acquired increased sensibility, it is clear that it must be more easily actec on so far as the production of sensation is concerned, by changes of temperature, and that it can bear neither extremes leat noi cold. After the immediate and vigorous excite- ment ias subsided, it is painfully sensible to a degree of cold which could have- no great effect on the sound skin. Will «ot the same sensibility, it may be said, render it just as sameeasily affected by a degree of heat, which is not disagree- able to the sound skin ? Now this brings us at once to the point; and whatever may be said respecting the influence of that law in sensation, which relates to the modification of the effect of a stimulus, by the degree of excitement and impres- sion which has previously been produced on the part, I have no hesitation in saying, that a degree of heat considerably above the existing temperature of the injured part, shall give pain as well as the application of cold. The temperature of the application must be such, as to produce neither the sen- sation of heat nor cold to a painful degree. A temperature below that of the surrounding skin, is never useful or agreeable after the first period or stage of activity, and heat with pain- ful excitement; but, on the contrary, tepid applications are then more pleasant. To sum up my opinion of the employment of cold, I would say, that in all extensive injuries, it is to be expected to do no good, but rather harm, as it increases the shivering and does not mitigate the pain, unless where it acts injuriously, by pro- moting stupor. In slight or superficial cases, where the extent is not great, it is often of great service, and not only lessens the pain whilst it.is applied, but abates the inflammation; and in such cases, it may safely be continued for some hours, provided it continue to give relief, and cause no shivering. In cases intermediate between these extremes, cold may be applied for a very short time, for it cannot be borne so long as in the former case without producing effects, which point out the propriety of discontinuing it. When we discontinue the cold, be it at the end of a few minutes, or of an hour or more, dry cotton, in most cases, forms the best dressing. Cold is never useful unless it allay pain : it always does harm when it produces an unpleasant sensation. Finding that in some cases, especially in slight scalds with fluid, under the boiling point for water, superficial scorch- ing, &c., cold water often gives relief, it was imagined that ice should be still more effectual, but this proceeds on a mistaken notion. It often gives pain, and also makes the sensation more intolerable when removed. Iced water or snow' can20.5 only be allowable in the few cases where they relieve pain, and speedily abate the redness. It has been said that a burned part, almost immediately, from the temporary action of an excessive stimulus, sinks into a state of debility, whilst the system is apt to sink along with it. By applying another powerful stimulus, as a substitute for that ol the heat, it was supposed that the action should be kept up, the part supported, and the sensation lessened. This, I fear, was an opinion founded rather on the notions of Brown, than on the ground of experience. It doubtless is true, that sometimes the application of a stimulus does, by changing the action and the sensation, not only give relief, but also contributes to cure the inflammation. This is seen in the effect of certain stimulants and narcotics in some stages ol ophthalmia. The temporary smarting produced by them is followed by relief. The application of vinegar to a scalded or burned part, sometimes abates the pain, but it always first causes smarting, and never does good unless the relief be speedy: a popular remedy is salt mixed with butter, and another advice is to hold the burned part for some time near the fire. Neither of these are generally useful. If a part have been scalded it is very tender and sensible, and is affected much moie than in its natural state, by change of tempera- ture. Cold air or cold water may give much pain even in a very superficial and slight burn, and in that case raising the temperature a little, gives relief. The rule is to be founded on the effect on sensation. Other mild stimulants have been proposed, such as linseed oil and lime water, or lime water mixed with milk; and these not being of an active nature, often agree well with the part, as together with the cloth used, they afford a soft defence to the exposed surface. But the proposal has been pushed much farther, and the strono- stimulus of oil ol turpentine alone,-or mixed with resinous ointment, has been recommended by way of keeping up the action of the part, and when that came to be more re-estab- lished, the proportion ol turpentine was diminished. \ye know that turpentine applied to sound skin inflames it, and ® priori we should expect a higher degree of inflammation tobe produced, if it were applied to a part already inflamed. What should be the effect of applying turpentine as a dress- ing on removing a common blister, if the cuticle were peeled oft ? Should it not be frantic agony, followed perhaps by sloughing of the part; and why should not the same effect lesult from it if applied to a part inflamed, blistered, and peeled, after the application of boiling water. Experience is decidedly against the use of turpentine, or any strong stimu- lus, in all cases where the skin is not disorganized, and that whether the extent be great or small, and whether the cuticle be entiie or peeled off. I he strong stimulus of turpentine can only be borne when the skin is partially torrified and nearly insensible. In such cases, when the effect was quickly pro- duced, as by the explosion of gunpowder, or the rapid com- bustion of some piece of dress, the part is little more sensible than an eschar, and sometimes scarcely any pain is felt. In these cases, the part on which applications are to act, being nearly, if not altogether dead, it is not to be expected that any stimulant can give pain, or do good; yet these, perhaps, are the cases most likely to be brought forward in favour of turpentine, for it cannot be endured when the part is sensi- ble, and if it could, it ought, if continued long, to destroy, or almost cauterize the surface. In this extreme degree of tor- rifaction, it is then a negative application, or may be said to do neither good nor harm. But there is an inferior degree, in which whilst the skin is almost killed, it is not altogether destroyed. It is neither acutely sensitive nor devoid of sensi- bility ; and in such cases turpentine may produce no higher effect than should be done in other cases by vinegar, nor does it act as a vesicatory on the half torrified skin. This view, which I believe observation will prove to be correct, will con- fine the use of turpentine within narrow limits, and even within these, its recommendation may be rather of the nega- tive than positive kind. The result, then, of these general observations is, that the treatment of small and of extensive burns, must in some respects be different. In the former, almost any plan may be adopted with safety, whether attended with relief or not,—that is to207 say, the part shall heal if we merely avoid doing positive mis- chief, although we fail to do actual good. This is especially the case when there is only erythema, which will go off whether we apply cold water or strong spirits, or wrap the part in cotton, or anoint it with salad oil, or bathe it with herring brine. But in the latter, we neither can use the cold nor the stimulating plan to any great degree; for the first, in extensive scaldings, must produce unusual coldness, and the second, in its primary operation at least, so excessive addi- tional excitement, as cannot be otherwise than detrimental. This leads then to a general deduction, and a practice sanc- tioned by experience, that in such cases we must avoid both extremes. Particular parts may doubtless be subjected to the operation of these opposite methods, but the great pro- portion of inflamed surface must be covered with some mild stimulant of a tepid heat, such as vinegar, or the old, but not useless liniment, made by mixing equal parts of lime-water and linseed oil, or, in place of oil, milk may be substituted. A solution of sulphate of zinc, in the proportion of 3i. to ltd. of rose-water, is also often useful, or a liniment made by add- ing to melted lard as much of a mixture of rose-water and acet. lith. as can be combined with it: a black salve prepared by boiling linseed oil and litharge, till it assume a proper con- sistence, also is a good application. A solution of chloride of lime in such strength as not to smart much, has also been recommended, but I know of no superiority it has over the other saline solutions, except in so far as it corrects fetor when that exists, and therefore in this view it is not necessary as a primary application. " y After endeavouring to find out some general rule of prac- tice, founded either on speculation or practice, it will be necessary to remember, that there are particular conditions requiring a peculiarity of treatment. There may, first, then be vesications. Now, it is clear that no application can act on the mere raised cuticle, and therefore in so far as these are concerned, we must attend only to the erythema. But the chief question here is, whether the blisters ought to be broken. Whenever this is done, and the cutis exposed, thesensibility is great. 1 o remove the cuticle is therefore improper. But shall we pierce the blister with a needle, and let the fluid ooze slowly out ? What good can immediately result from this ? Is the fluid doing harm, and is it not often so gelatinous that it cannot ooze from an acupuncture? I believe that the fluid is as good an application as can be made to the tender cutis, and that we ought to retard the breaking of the blister, as thereby we allow time for the erythema to abate, and should only add to the pain, by speedily exposing the tender surface to the air. Dry cotton is often in the meantime a good application. Secondly. When vesications break and expose the cutis in a suppurating state, similar to that which may be produced by a cantharides blister, it is of great consequence to prevent ulceration. This never happens unless the cutis be destroyed, for there is till then, only purulent secretion. Our object, granting that the original injury have not destroyed the life of the skin, is to prevent so much inflammation as shall dis- organize it. This is to be done by the general remedies already noticed, either cold or stimulant, as may be dictated by sensation; and then, when the cutis is exposed, we shall oftener succeed by mild, than by irritating applications, such as cerussa ointment, or dusting the part with chalk, or cover- ing it with dry cotton. On the face, where it is of great consequence to prevent ulceration, or in other words a scar, we may frequently succeed by first using cold diluted vinegar, and then after a little, applying dry cotton, which is to be allowed to remain so long as it continues dry, or in the state of a dry crust on the part. Should patches become soon moist, they may be daily, or even twice a day removed, and replaced with dry cotton. If this plan do not succeed, we may use cerussa ointment made pretty thick with the powder, or astringent washes, or weak solution of chloride of lime or of soda. Thirdly. When the cutis does become disorganized, and ulceration takes place, the discharge is generally great in proportion to the surface, the smell is bad, and previous to healing, the granulations are apt to become luxuriant, and the209 cicatrix when it forms, is elevated. But the question now is, not how we are to treat a burn or scald, but how we are to heal an ulcer, and the treatment of this ulcer will throw but little light on that most proper for the original accident. The best dressing is one gently stimulant, such as ung. lesin. : sometimes with the addition of a small proportion of tuipentine; or alum curd beat up with an equal quantity of laid ; or we may use a solution of chloride of lime, stronger than in the former cases, which, like some other stimulants, may diminish the discharge, but is especially useful in destroy- ing the smell. It also seems to promote the formation of an inorganic layer over the surface, which is useful; and, there- fore, even when not used constantly, it forms a good lotion at the time of dressing. Then, those parts which seem dis- posed to heal kindly, may be dressed with cerussa ointment; those which are healing, but prone to fungus, with stimulating dressings, and they should be bathed with weak solution of nitrate of silver, or solution of sulphate of zinc. Those which at e foul and sloughy should have a poultice bf boiled carrots, mixed with powdered charcoal applied, or be repeatedly washed with solution of chloride of lime; and those which are superficial and stationary, should be washed with a stimulating lotion, and then crusted with chalk; or it sometimes succeeds very well to cover the part constantly with dry cotton, only removing daily those portions which are moistened and detached by matter. In all cases, care must be taken to pre- vent contraction, and the formation of improper adhesions. Fourthly. When the fire has been so powerful as to destroy directly the part, and produce immediate death of the cutis, perhaps in some places absolute incineration, no dressing can act on the subjacent, but only on the surrounding parts. This state in one respect, therefore, is similar to a scald still covered with a blister. rIhe best application in such a case is, either a thick cloth wet with the old liniment of lime-water and linseed oil, or a tepid bread and milk poultice, which, after the slough has separated, is to be exchanged for a gently stimulating salve, or some of the applications just noticed. Fifthly. I he high inflammation and irritation may kill the210 part, which is said to mortify. This is preceded by lividity of the inflamed surface, and whilst the ulcerated or imme- diately injured portion becomes black or purple, the adjacent parts become erysipelatous. This is to be managed on prin- ciples soon to be explained. Sixthly. The ulceration may spread or go deeper, and the skin becoming undermined, bags and sinuses form. In such cases we must use, ii they can be borne, rollers and compresses, and make dependant openings; and by solution of sulphate ol zinc, chloride of lime, or other salts, cover the surface with a layer of coagulated pus, at the same time that the vessels are excited to a better action, by the operation of these stimuli. Seventhly. Burning by gunpowder is attended not only with the scorching of the skin, but the grains of powder are also sunk into the skin. These ought to be carefully picked out, provided this can be done with less irritation than their pre- sence would excite. There is some chance of the skin being tatooed if they remain, but this is not usual. Poultices pro- mote their discharge, but also increase the risk of ulceration. When this must happen, they may be used. Vinegar forms a good application in this case, but in general it must be gi-eatly diluted with cold water, which of itself is often the only application which can at first be tolerated. Afterwards the surface may be covered with cotton, or some of the mild liniments already noticed, if the cotton do not agree. Eighthly. The application of heat, even to the surface, may on different principles, influence and even inflame the parts below, and therefore it is, ceteris paribus, more dangerous when the skin over the head, thorax, or abdomen, is burned. The constitutional or general treatment next claims our attention, and two leading objects I apprehend to be, allaying the effects of pain, and supporting the strength. Bloodletting has been advised by some to cure the inflam- matory fever, and I will not decidedly say that in no case can it be admitted, but of this I am confident, that in most cases the injury is either too severe to permit, or too slight to require it. Generally, irritation rather than synocha attends this accident, and it is only when the patient is vigorous, and«n the burning is confined to one extremity, or moderate por- tion of the skin, attended with much inflammation and decided synocha, marked by general heat, throbbing pulse, flushed face, &c., that the lancet can be useful. Yet, amidst the various changes which take place in the fashions of physic, I can easily foresee that some bold speculator will propose the indiscriminate use of bloodletting in every case, and will suppoit his advice by the utility of the remedy in other inflammations; and the argument, that if we bleed in a pleurisy to subdue inflammation, we ought to bleed to a greater degree in inflammation of the skin to cure a burn. Next, he will support his cause by the advantage which follows from the detraction of blood in some cases of erysipelas, a disease in which Sydenham did not refrain from the lancet. But a burn is not a simple case of inflammation, one which begins slowly, and arriving presently at an acme, proceeds from thence either to recovery or destruction. It is a disease established at once, and consisting of a change so sudden and so violent, that no remedy, when it is severe to such a degree as to warrant oiu thinking of venesection, can speedily restore the parts to health. There is a combination of irritation, in the part and in the system, with inflammation, and the surface itself is not meiely inflamed, but it is excited to excessive sensibility, covered with lymph or serum contained in blisters, the texture of the cutis perhaps injured, or purulent secretion about to be established. In this state we can hope little from venesec- tion. I he most temeritous follower of Sangrado can scarcely propose to bleed so as to subdue the local disease, for there aie parts indeed of that disease, which never can be removed by venesection. All that any man can hope for, is to allay the inflammatory fever, and thereby lessen the high action of the system, and the reaction of that on the local disease. But he will never attempt this chance without recollecting that he cannot always succeed, inasmuch as a great part of the con- stitutional effect arises from irritation, which the lancet cannot SU ue3 and that if he fail, and even in some degree if he •succeed, he leaves all the secondary stages of the injury to be xune y a debilitated and exhausted frame.212 Purgatives form another class of remedies, and as there is scarcely an instance of a burn which does not more or less disorder the chylopoietic viscera, these medicines are highly proper. 1 hey are, however, to be prescribed more for obviating this effect of the accident, than for operating on the part itself, except in so far as they may remove a condition, which by its reaction on, or sympathy with the injury, might render that more intractable. Debilitating evacuations are to be avoided, but mild purgatives are proper. Diaphoretics have also been praised, but these have little effect, unless they act also in some other %vay, as, for example, Dover’s powder, which acts as an anodyne, and sometimes has that effect aided by its diaphoretic tendency, or the bad effect of opium mitigated thereby. Opiates are more generally useful, and when there is much pain or restlessness, or irritation, can seldom be dispensed with. The dose must be so great as to procure an abatement of the sensibility, and yet not such as to cause stupefaction. Nothing is more to be dreaded than the continuance of great pain, particularly if complicated with restlessness. In such circumstances, even a drachm of laudanum has been given with a happy effect. It has been said that pain is a good symptom, and should not be abated by opium; but it is only good inas- much as it shows that a worse state, namely, absolute insensi- bility, does not exist. In an extensive burn, wliere the parts are not insensible from mere torrifaction, it is less dangerous to find the patient sensible to suffering, than nearly uncon- scious. This is a negative benefit, for pain itself is never useful. Its abatement, if not accompanied with stupor or torpor of mind, is to be desired. Opiates must be repeated as often as requisite, and their constipating effects obviated. It is not necessary to say, that in cases accompanied with stupor they add to the evil, and must be avoided. In the first or inflammatory stage, the diet must be mild, and the drink bland. Vegetables, fruit, whey, lemonade, soda water, &c. may be given freely, as the patient desires. In the second stage, where there is suppuration, and perhaps extensive ulceration, and profuse discharge, the strength must213 be supported by light, but nourishing diet, as soup, jelly, light animal food, &c.; and suitable cordials must be administered, particularly wine. I onics, when they agree with the stomach, aie useful in exciting appetite and promoting digestion. Otherwise they do no good. Sulphuric acid, bitters, bark, n-on, &c. are of this kind. We must not be too long of com- mencing this coi dial plan, for if we be, it does not succeed, t ie stomach loses its vigour, and never rallies, and every day adds to the evil. But there are some specialties in this accident at the very first, ie patient is restless, thirsty, heated, or at least not cold, and 15 in a state approaching to fever, if not of fever. Let him have cool drink freely, cover him lightly with clothes, and, if sum- mer, open the window, and study sedulously to mitigate his pain by local remedies. On the other hand, he may be cold, and shiver, or be even sick. He feels sunk, and looks pale and languid. He must in this case be covered more warmly, but not oppressed with clothes. He should have an opiate, and then some tepid, el- even hot drink; but unless he be much sunk, it ought not be stimulating. If he be, a little hot wine, or brandy and hot water, is the best remedy. The sudden shock, even where the injuiy is not very extensive, sometimes sinks a sensible or delicate constitution rapidly and prodigiously. This may happen to adults, but chiefly to children. As coldness, and oo often the effect of what may be called shock, are amongst the earliest and most formidable symptoms of burns, it may be ought that I ought, in the first instance, to have brought lent forward, but they are not essential, though frequent. The pulse is often in the early stage weak, or even scLely , felt, and the mind, m great degrees of injury, seems as much overpowered as the body. Strong stimulants camiot u ie this, but repeated doses of moderate stimuli may be of much service. Doses of laudanum, moderate for the am given m a little brandy and water, and the application of I T ^ °r neCk’ with very 3d juiet pait, constitute the best practice. The quan-tity of brandy to be given must depend on the degree of sink- ing, but is never to be carried beyond what is necessary to prevent farther failure. If given to the extent of producing positive stimulation, it is hurtful; and indeed we must always remember that there is a tendency, if the patient survive the stage of depression, to morbid excitement. The assistance of warm applications to the extremities, or pit of the stomach, or back, if the nature of the accident permit of this, is always to be taken. The duration of the period when cordials and stimu- lants are required, will vary according to the constitution and extent of injury. In some instances two or three hours will terminate it, in others it may last for several days, but not to the same degree. The state of the pulse and ol the tempera- ture, as well as of the mind, must determine the practice. The urgent symptoms of sickness and vomiting are best allayed by solid opium. The various preparations of opium seem also to have a powerful influence on the evolution of heat, and on sensation, increasing the one, and relieving the other in a marked degree. Stupor or coma has formerly been noticed as an effect of scald and burn, and this is alarming. It is not, however, hopeless. The treatment here is to avoid cold applications, and preserve the heat of the body; apply gentle tepid stimu- lants to the burned part, as tepid vinegar, for instance; give moderate doses of wine and water, it the patient can swallow; shave the head, and apply, first a sinapism, and then a blistei. A brisk purgative, or smart clyster, if the patient cannot swallow, should also be administered. By these means, I have seen those recover who were quite insensible, with the pupil dilated, and even a degree of oppressed breathing. But under the same treatment others die. Much depends on the prompt use of these means. Prolonged stupor, especially if preceded by much shivering, is dangerous. The part may cicatrise, and yet remain very painful, from the state of the tendons or nerves below. This is particularly the case with the foot, so that it is long before the patient can bear his weight on it, far less walk. This effect, in e' ei v215 instance, I have seen goes off at length. It is to be removed by tepid bathing, gentle friction, and cautious perseverance in efforts to use the limb. Elevated cicatrices, when to such an extent as to cause deformity, may be cut out like other tumours, and the skin brought together, or if this cannot be done, we shall at least be able to heal the part with a flat scar. Contraction of joints is more easily prevented than cured, and therefore we ought, in extensive burns, to attend much to position during the cure. If possible we should, by splints and bandages, resist the tendency to contract, and be careful to prevent adhesion forming improperly, by suitable dressing. It is fortunate that this plan often is successful; at the same time, it must be admitted, that in extensive burns about the face, there may inevitably be deformity from drawing and puckering of the mouth, or contraction of the eyelid, which adheres to the cheek. This is a frequent case in burns arising fiom explosion. Attention must be early and constantly paid to prevent this contraction; and when we fail, the skin must, when healed, be divided, and the eyelid brought up in a, manner to be hereafter described. Contraction of the joints and neck depends usually on the cicatrix, which has not been prevented from forming in a bent state of the member. Much may often be done by friction, and continued efforts to elon- gate by means of a splint. When this fails, the contracted skin must be cut out early, before the muscles have shrunk into a permanent state of shortening, and the cicatrix must then be prevented from forming in an unfavourable position. In some bad cases, where one muscle seems principally to lesist, that may be divided. But if an operation be not per- formed early, the chance of success is less, as the whole mus- cles may change their relative size, and the bones themselves become altered in some cases, or in others the ligaments of the articulations. When the fingers are contracted, and there is a thick cicatrix like a tumour over the flexor tendons, this may be cut with advantage, if continued attempts at elon<m tion do not succeed. But these I would, from experience' ad\ise not to be hastily abandoned.216 When ulceration penetrates into a joint, and the bones are carious, or when obstinate ulcers form over the tibia, with disease of the periosteum or bone, it may become necessary to perform amputation, if we fail by the ordinary means to cure the disease. SECTION ELEVENTH. If the action of a part be carried greatly beyond its power, and particularly if that action be of such a nature as renders the supply of power less, the part must soon be destroyed. Inflammation of parts which are weak is productive of this effect. It not merely interferes with the supply of energy, but exhausts rapidly that which is possessed. I have, at page 19, considered weakness as divisible into primary or ante- cedent, consecutive and conjunct, all of which may bear on the present subject. Parts may be wTeak before or at the time of the accession of inflammation, or after the production of inflammation, or by the powerful operation ot a concomitant cause, in addition to the effect of inflammation itself; for although inflammation have a tendency to weaken the part, this cause must not simply be considered here. First, Parts may be artificially weakened by the positive subduction of a necessary stimulus, as that of blood or heat. Plence, limbs which have the arterial circulation suddenly obstructed by wound or ligature, or the arterial action impeded by ossification, or which have been exposed to great cold, become thereby debilitated. Seco?id, A great degree of excitement may also be followed by a corresponding debility, under one of two circumstances. First, The part may have been much impaired in its struc- ture and functions by the injury, at the same time that it was also greatly excited, as we observe in limbs which are crushed or bruised, where we have a double source of danger; a direct impairing or diminution of power on the one hand, and a direct excitement to increased action on the other. Second, There may have been simply a state of great excitement pioduced without this diminution of power, in consequence of mecha- nical injury. Inflammation may either supervene on this217 state of debility, or may precede, and then accompany it. In certain cases, the great pain attending the diseased action exhausts the part, and renders it unable to bear up under the inflammation. Third, A part may be weakened by the action being not only great, in comparison to its existing power, but also so dissimilar to the natural action of the part, that it almost incapacitates it for possessing vital energy. This is exempli- fied by the effect of the application of putrid matter to an inflamed or tender surface, the infiltration of urine amongst the cellular substance, and by certain local diseases of more obscure origin, such as carbuncle. To one or other of these general classes, simply or com- bined, may be referred, in so far as we are at present con- cerned, the different causes of debility, operating, however, lancler modifications, and through media, as numerous and various as diseases themselves. But in a matter of so much practical importance, it will be necessary to be a little more particular. T"° questions naturally offer themselves here. First, Is it a fact that one part of the body is more apt to be killed by inflammation than another? No person can dispute this, who observes how much more frequently gangrene terminates enteritis than pleurisy. Second, Is it a fact that inflammation, although it do not kill, is more difficult to be removed, and prevented from ending in suppuration, in one part than another. This is proved by the greater difficulty of curino- inflammation of the joints than of many other parts. When we inquire for an explanation of this fact, particularly the first, which more directly concerns us at present, we should be led to suppose, that one part of the body was naturally weaker, or possessed less vitality than another. It is very usual to speak of this, and assume it as a fact; but when we demand the proof, we find that it bears merely on one part eing less sensible to the action of ordinary agents than anothei. Do not all these parts carry on as briskly, as firmly, as peifectly, the usual processes, as the most sensible. Circu- ation, nutrition, absorption, the power of preservation andc218 increment, and of harmonizing with the rest of the system,— are they not exhibited in these, as well as in any other organ. They act correctly in health, they suffer in disease, and it is merely their insensibility to many of those ordinary stimu- lants, which we are accustomed to consider as the agents of excitement, which has made them be considered as low in vitality, or deficient in sensibility. But they are all capable of being acted on by a certain class ; and when preternaturally excited by these, they exhibit exquisite sensibility. What should we think of an attempt to prove that the ear was insensible, because it was not acted on by the light, or that the bladder was not irritable, because it felt no pain from the urine. But although no part be naturally weaker than the rest, or can properly be said to possess low vitality, yet many are less able to resist disease than others, and it is to an explanation of this that I now proceed on the following fundamental prin- ciples. First, A part or organ in a state of either healthy or diseased action should soon die, if left entirely to its own power; but it draws support from the rest. There is no organ possessed of an independent life ; all act in concert and equably in health. When we increase the action of an organ, it must soon be exhausted, if no aid were afforded by the rest of the system or contiguous parts; and, indeed, this proposition is as evi- dent as the fact, that an extremity should soon perish, if so divided from the body as to remain attached only by the mere artery and vein. Second, A part may sink either from being itself rapidly and excessively weakened, or by depressing the general system or neighbouring parts, so as to incapacitate them from affording support. Parts which can readily change the action, and substitute suppuration, or some other action for the pure inflammatory one, are less apt to suffer. Keep- ino- these in remembrance, we shall understand the matter farther by the following remarks:—Pain exhausts a part, and whatever its previous condition may have been, brings it to a state of debility. Powerful excitement or high sensation may kill at once, before it be possible for inflammation to take place. When spirit of ammonia was injected into the intes- tine of a rabbit, it screamed, and almost immediately died.A less intense degree of pain and excitement may produce! fatal exhaustion, without mortification, and quite independent of any inflammation which may have commenced. Inflam- mation preceded or accompanied with great pain, must there- fore soon be considered in the same light with that disease supervening in a part weakened by cold or mechanical injury, and it is evident then, that parts naturally of great sensibility, or which have acquired it, must perish sooner under inflam- mation than others less sensible; and if this be admitted, it follows, that much attention should practically be paid to pain, in all complaints which tend to kill the part, and in all oigans, whatevei the disease may be, which excite a powerful sympathy on the system, or are essential to it. The same degree of pain which may for a length of time be sustained in suppuiative and ulcerative disease, would soon destroy the same part, if complicated with inflammation. Adventitious circum- stances often increase pain, and exhaust the part; thus, in ente- ritis, part of the pain proceeds from irregular action of the muscular fibres, and this debilitates still more the inflamed part. We are not merely to attend to the greater sensibility which a part may naturally possess over others, but also to its suscepti- bility of impression from stimuli, which may be very important, although the part may not be delicately sensible. It is also of much consequence to attend to the acquired sensibility and susceptibility which may take place in the progress of disease, and which are sometimes augmented after haemorrhage, by the excited state of the vascular system this produces. Hence great loss of blood is very apt to be succeeded by inflamma- tion, if a very slight cause be applied, or sometimes from the mere irregularity of action induced, in an organ itself, by the loss of blood. J epression debilitates as well as pain, and not only in inflammation sinks the part itself, but prevents the system from communicating support to it in the same degree it would ot ei wise do. Organs which are depressed easily by inflam- lvutmn or which sympathetically depress the system, as the S °maC 1 or smali intestines, must hence be readily sunk,220 •uni, on this principle, the plan of treating inflammation by nauseating doses of antimony, cannot be a good one. When parts, from similarity of texture or other causes, are more apt to participate in, than resist inflammation, the dan- ger is greater, if not surrounded by, and connected with thick substance, than when they have this support. Parts which are thin and loose, or insulated as it were, are much in this situation; and hence the danger is much greater, when that part of the peritonaeum which covers the intestine, than that which lines the abdominal muscles, is inflamed. The danger in this case is also increased by the circumstance noticed above, of the sympathetic influence exerted by these organs on the whole system. Inflammation of the testicle is attended with much depression, but it is not so insulated as intestines, and therefore the same effect is not produced. Hence also inflammation of the kidney more frequently ends in suppura- tion than in mortification. After this general exposition of the doctrine, we must attempt some division of the cases for assistance in practice. Parts previously healthy are, ceteris paribus, much better able to bear inflammation than those which have been injured. This, then, gives us one great division into inflammation aris- ing in parts already debilitated, and in parts healthy at the time of its accession. These last may be subdivided into, 1st, Those naturally very sensible to all kinds of ordinary stimu- lants, as, for instance, the skin. This is less apt than the rest, both to be injured itself, and to injure the system. It can bear pain better; pain there sinks the system less, and there is an aptitude to change the inflammatory action into the secreting or ulcerative. In a body previously healthy, this part sinks under inflammation chiefly where the excitement has been very great, or when a debilitating cause has been operating, such as contagion. 2d, Those of acquired sensibility, and great sympathetic influence, particularly when they are in a manner insulated, or attached by thin and slender connexions. When contagions or morbid poisons co-operate, these effects will be proportioned to the habitude of the affected part.221 Ihe inflammation of parts previously injured or debilitated, and previously sound, requiring in many respects different treatment, I must consider these two great divisions separately. \\ hen parts previously sound are inflamed, the inflamma- tion at first is of the nature of the valida; but when these parts are sensible, and in a manner insulated, and exert at the same time a powerful sympathetic effect on the system, their power soon sinks, but the action not abating in the same degree, the result is exactly as if we had the disease excited in a weak- ened part. No organ exhibits this more evidently than the peritoneal coat of the bowels, which, when inflamed, very soon becomes debilitated; and whilst mortification is a rare termination of inflammation of other parts previously healthy, it is here very frequent. The practical rule in such a case then must be, to attack the disease vigorously at first by free vene- section, tepid bathing to allay pain, and purgatives to excite the internal coat of the bowel, which thus lessens the action of the external or peritoneal covering. “ Faeces pertinaciter adstricta” has been considered as an essential characteristic of peritonitis intestinalis, and free alvine discharge as a o-00d indication of recovery. As it is only those cases of enteritis which are arrested in the first stage, or during the inflam- matio valid a, which are in general cured, it becomes an essen- tial object to commence the treatment instantly. This is far- ther advantageous, because the disease usually is at first con- fined to a comparatively small surface. When it has spread over a great extent, and passed into the stage of debilis, we have little hope of a cure, and the remedies useful at first now add to the danger. It would be of importance, therefore, to be able to distinguish the one from the other; and although there be a difficulty, yet we may generally be able to accomplish this. In the first stage, the pain is generally more confined, or at least is greatest at one part; there is no puffy tympanitic swelling although there may be tension. There is sharp lancinating- pain on pressure, but not exquisite tenderness to the touch5 of sfitch n°^iffiCUl!y °f breathin* imleSS from ^ presence • The pulse is not so rapid as in the second stao-e and is sharp, and generally contracted. There are restlessness222 nnd tossing from pain, rather than anxiety. If the patient vomit, the egesta are either bilious, or consist merely of the drink. The countenance is expressive of pain, and the face sometimes ruddy, but it may be pale. In the second stage, there is tumefaction more or less of the abdomen,—more general sensibility, and sometimes so much tenderness that the weight of the clothes cannot be borne,—the breathing is generally somewhat difficult,—the pulse is more rapid and weaker, and that whether it be small or fuller than formerly. When vomit- ing takes place, the fluid thrown up is darker, and sometimes feculent. The countenance is sunk, and the strength depressed. In this stage, the pain also is apt to be aggravated in particular parts, by accession of inflammation in portions which formerly were not affected, or sudden increase of it where it already existed. Towards the fatal end of this stage, the general pain often abates, and may even go altogether off, whilst the tumefaction increases, and the breathing becomes more difficult, the vomiting more frequent, accompanied with hiccup, and the strength rapidly fails. The duration of these two stages is variable, but neither are ever long, for I do not speak here of what has been called chronic peritonitis. The first stage generally passes over in a few hours, but the time cannot be definitely fixed. Still some guidance may be derived from the period of the disease. Now, it is only in the first stage that we can really do good'; this is a fearful hazard, for if we fail, we only hasten the evil by the debility induced by our remedies. The call, then, is most importunate for prompt and vigorous interference, at a time when we have some chance of success. We must bleed instantly, and we may bleed freely at first, but never dare bleed long and repeatedly ; for if we do not speedily check the inflammation, the very means that we have been using will hurry it on sooner to the second stage, in which venesection can do no good, but aggravates the evil. We must be guided by the effects of depletion, and partly by the period of the disease. In the commencement, if no material benefit be derived from venesection, that is no reason why it should not be soon repeated ; but it is not so at a late period, for then if223 the patient be not sensible of relief, perhaps more than after any former bleeding, and, particularly, if instead of abate- ment ot the symptoms, he experience rather a sinking and increase of weakness, it would be folly to persist. Bloodletting, the tepid bath, or fomentations, and purga- tives, followed by opiates, form the practice in the first stage; and when we succeed, it is by the early and judicious use of these, cai lying the evacuation quickly, as far as it appears to do good, but not senselessly pushing it beyond this. Blisters are of doubtful utility, and I fear, when indiscriminately applied, and especially if large, often add to the irritation, rather than prove advantageous. It is better to try the effect of detracting blood from the surface by cupping, or many leeches. Blisters are chiefly useful when the pain is circumscribed, and the violence of the disease has been so overcome by other means as to require merely a little effort to throw the balance to the side of recovery. In this state of hesitation of the part, if the expression be allowable, a full dose of opium, or a clyster containing laudanum, are highly proper ; for by allaying pain, they lessen a powerful stimulus to disease. Even at an earlier period, they are useful, and, alternated with the necessary puigatives, should be used as soon as the patient has been freely bled They also tend to diminish the irritating and mj unous effects of the loss of blood, and this alone is of no small consequence in the treatment of inflammation. It is of great importance to remove every excitino- cause and in surgical accidents, to place the intestine as soon as possible m a natural state. The dissections in hernia, parti- cu aily after operation, show that the danger does not always ptoceed from the state of the mere protruded intestine, but that the stomach may suffer more. This is illustrated by an experiment already related, where the stomach was much m amec, w ien the intestine was kept exposed at an wound, but the-rest of the bowels were healthy. The part chiefly exposed is not then always that which causes death. A fold of the intestine of a rabbit was kept exposed for forty hours. It had t,doral wound' -d ‘"e } C a bladder. It was moistened, and after the224 adhesion was cautiously destroyed, it was returned, and the wound stitched up. The animal remained apparently well, till it was killed accidentally, about a fortnight after the opera- tion. The intestine adhered to the parietes, and was some- what inflamed, but quite pervious. Thick caseous pus, such as is formed by the rabbit, lay around it, confined by adhe- sions. The rest of the viscera were healthy. In the human subject, when the inflammation is not resolved, and does not end in a gangrenous state, we find that either a change of structure, such as induration, takes place, or serous or puru- lent fluid is effused, and circumscribed by adhesion ol the intestines. If not speedily absorbed, the only chance of safety arises from evacuating the fluid by a small orifice, which should be immediately closed. In the second stage, little can be done. It were easy to lay down rules for supporting the strength by nourishment and cordials, and producing counter-irritation on the mucous coat of the intestines by turpentine, combined with castor oil; but who does not know how steadily the disease bids defiance to all our art, and, in spite of the parade of physic, makes hasty strides to fatal effusion and mortification? If ever a patient recover from this stage, I am disposed to place the cure rather to the credit of nature, or the salutary reaction of the system, than to the means employed, which at this period are very limited, and very unavailing. In parts debilitated previous to inflammation, there are two states to be attended to,—one where the injury or alteration only predisposes to inflammation from slight causes, as, or example, severe cold followed by moderate heat; another, where the debilitating cause at the same time excites to inflammation, as, for example, contusion or laceration, and severe cold, even without subsequent application of heat. Parts may be debilitated by conditions connected with the state of the body, as for instance, languid circulation in t le lower extremities, dependant on affection of the heart or aorta, or induration of the liver or spleen. In ,hose cas , inflammation may be preceded by effusion of water into the cellular substance: or there may be ossification oloo VO arteries of the extremities. Or a general depressing cause may operate, as, lor instance, bad diet or poisonous substances, as ergot. As the predisposing cause in all these cases is debility, we can conceivre that, to go to such a degree, or increase so rapidly, as to make the part die without previous action, 01 distinct inflammation; and this state has been well described by Hildanus, who says the part dies or mortifies, without pain, swelling, or inflammation, but feels first cold and senseless, and then becomes black and hard, and these changes are often unattended with any alteration in the pulse. The same author, however, describes the effect of inflamma- tion m such habits, and states, that the disease is insidious, as the muscles or deep parts are affected before the skin exhibits any change. A man says he got up in the morning, but could not stand in consequence of violent burning pain in his foot, yet it felt cold, and nothing could be seen to account for the pain. But presently it became black or mortified, and he died, notwithstanding an attempt was made to save him by amputation. Mr. Pott describes the same disease, and expressly says, that the pain is severe and burning, but the toes are cold. Presently a black spot appears on one or more of them, which spreads, and the disease extends, and proves fatal. Those cases, which were once supposed to arise from an occult poison, or some unknown cause, are generally found to depend on ossification of the arteries. The low inflammation ending in gangrene, produced bv ergot, is of the same kind, and attended with similar symptoms and effects. Noel says, in the Mem. of the Acad, o ^ ciences for 1710, that about 50 cases were received into the hospital at Orleans. These were all either men, or boys , Slrls* No adult woman was affected. In all, the disease egan in the toes, and sometimes spread to the top of the t ugh, or, notwithstanding amputation, extended itself to the trunc It is evident that in cases where the disease depends on ossification or organic disease, the cure must be difficult it be possible. One general principle must direct us conliX’ t0 rg°T the SJStem hy g°0d diet’ and such ‘ as do not heat or excite too much. Tonics have o220 little effect, except in so far as they act on the stomach anil bowels, and thereby remove an additional cause of derange- ment. Pain is a powerful stimulant to disease, and there- fore must be allayed by opium. This was recommended as a specific by Pott, but it is only useful in so far as it lessens sensibility, and, as it only mitigates one source of exasperation, it cannot be looked on as infallible; nevertheless this object is too important to be viewed in a secondary light. 1 he dose must be such as to produce relief, and must be repeated as often as the pain returns. By determining the modus operandi, we can be at no loss in regulating the dose. Local applications used to be made, after scarification through the insensible surface, but the plan of scarifying is now given up, and at the most the detached or insensible skin is removed, to allow applications to come in contact with the more sensible parts. But even this is of doubtful piopiiet}, and applications can only be expected to do good in those cases where the skin is red and still alive. Then camphorated spirits may be used, if it have a good sensitive effect Atten- tion to temperature is of much consequence. We should prevent the part from being too cold, and preserve the heat by wrapping it in wool, but must not excite it by heated appli- cations. Cold is another cause of debility, and by the subduction o the stimulus of heat, the same effect may be produced as by the stoppage of the circulation. In either case the part may be directly killed, or die, but this can hardly be called disease, for it dies without any previous action, and rather from cessa- tion of action, owing to a negative rather than a positive cause. It is, however, incredible to what extent a necessary stimulus may be withdrawn and yet life continue, so far as to exhibit some reaction when stimuli are applied. A part, for instance, may be actually frozen without dying, but from this low state it is difficult to restore it to health, for the renewed action rises into disease, and kills the part. W hen a certain degree of cold is applied, the skin becomes purple, and pain is felt. If a greater degree be suddenly applied, the sensation is that of burning, but this in extreme cases is227 speedily lost, sensation being destroyed. When a part is frostbit, as it is called, it is sometimes truly frozen, and during that time is generally white and hard, and senseless, oi it may, without being frozen, become cold and pale as that of a dead body. It is when action is rising that it becomes pin pie, anc^ ^ee^s as ^ on fire. It is important to attend, however, to the distinction between that death or mortifica- tion, which directly proceeds from failure or abstraction of stimulus or support, and that produced indirectly through the agency of previous inflammation. The former is similar to mortification, following on division of arteries. It is the mere death of the part without previous disease, and it requires much prudence to act so as to prevent direct sinking without occasioning dangerous excitation. When the whole body is exposed to great cold, it becomes torpid or sluggish and the mind participates, so that drowsiness comes on, and if indulged, the person falls into a sleep from which he never awakes. But if this be prevented, and yet the effect have been strong, he appears as if intoxicated, looks wild, and speaks x lstinctly. This was remarked by Captain Parry, who wit- nessed the effects of a temperature so low as—54°. Exposure for a very short time indeed to this degree of cold, without defence, must destroy the vitality of the extreme parts, and even an almost momentary exposure must cause great danger If after being frozen the hand be plunged in water, the sur- face of the skin becomes covered with ice, and yet the whole o the fiozen part does not necessarily die. Hildanus mentions a man who after being greatly cooled, was immersed in water «nd had all his body covered with a crust of ice, which shows that Ins skin had been cooled below the freezing point This man, says he, got a good glass of hydromel and cloves,' which procured linn a sweat, and he recovered with only the W of >e last joints of his upper and under extremities. I need not WdoL'i'ntheTe'cIser1 W1 perSpjration must be cold below zero, the^, che£ 3 ^ ^ £ 611 and kllled dlrect]y> so that inflammation cannot take228 place in them, but it does in the vicinity. The same holds true of the extremities. The fingers, &c. may perish at once, whilst the skin of the hand inflames, and then mortifies. When inflammation takes place after exposure to cold, it is generally from excitement, and a very low stimulus will pro- duce as high inflammation, compared to the powers of the part, and possibly as severe sensation, as boiling water would do on a healthy surface. There is a degree of cold so great as, if it do not kill the part, will at least prevent it from returning to a state of health. The mere disorder, produced by the great cold, acts as an exciting cause to inflammation, without the intervention of any subsequent stimuli. Were this not the case, a part might indeed be directly killed, but should never inflame, and then mortify even superficially, if properly treated. There is an inferior degree of cold, where, by keeping down action, we may get the part slowly to recover, without inflam- ing ; and a third degree, where, if we let the part alone, and only avoid heat, it will do well. In recoverable cases, it is the sudden increase of temperature or excitement which does the mischief. Larrey, who was in the memorable campaign of 1814, mentions, that although the cold was severe, his men did well, till all at once the thermometer rose many degrees, and then the sudden increase of heat excited inflammation. Even when no heat is applied directly to the part, there is a risk of excitement from the too rapid communication of action from the parts above, the temperature of which, therefore, ought rather to be kept down than increased. The inflam- mation is marked by tumefaction, redness, or rather purp e colour of the part, and severe burning pain, and feeling o stuffing, and weight, and prickling, such as a limb feels when it is said to be asleep. Then the skin becomes black, and gene- rally is dry, so that this, like the other species already noticed, has been called the dry gangrene. It is not unusual, neit er ought it to be unexpected, that the skin suffers more than the parts below. A considerable portion of integument may e completely sphacelated, when the muscles and other subjacen parts are alive. This is known by the power of motion amm deep-seated feeling remaining. When confined to the skin, the separation takes place in ten or twelve days, and the part below is leit in a state of painful ulceration. The older writers advised cold water to be applied, or snow, but afterwards they employed fomentations, which defeated theii piimary purpose. If we understand the source of dan- gei, we can easily discover the practice. Let the part be first rubbed with snow, and then bathed with cold water, and, last of all, have cloths wet with camphorated spirit of wine applied. Let heat be carefully avoided, not only to the part itself, but also to the vicinity. The temperature of the room where the patient is placed must even be kept moderate, and no fire be allowed for some time. If inflammation have taken place, we can do very little more than still apply camphorated spirits, w ich tend to lessen it, and after the eschars have formed, this, provided it do not give pain, should still be continued as long as there is any surrounding inflammation. Then a tepid poultice, or pledget spread with resinous ointment, may be applied to separate the slough. The strength is to be sup- ported by good diet, and moderate quantities of cordials; but these must never be given so as to excite, and therefore should be begun small in quantity, and indeed should not at first be iasti y employed at all. In extensive gangrene, amputation may be at last required. Another species of this kind of inflammation is more apt to end in ulceration than gangrene. It is called chilblain, and is especially apt to affect the toes, heels, or fingers, but it may also occupy the lips or nose. There are some people su ject to cold feet, or who have the extremities rendered white and benumbed by moderate cold. These are particu- arly liable to chilblain, but any one may have this produced y going quickly to the fire after being very cold, either from exposure to frost, or cold and damp. When the disease is threatened, the part should be rubbed with snow or cold water and when inflammation has actually taken place, strong cam- phorated spirit of wine, or spirit of wine with a little oil ofrose- aiy a t e to it, should be applied, and heat avoided. If ulcer- a 1011 mVC taken place’the best dressing is ung. resinos. and the230 part should be bathed with laudanum and cold water. In a few cases, when these stimulants give pain, an ointment of a mild nature agrees better, as simple ointment mixed with pounded chalk. Carbuncle is another specimen of this kind of inflammation, and is often both troublesome and dangerous. It may be solitary, in which case it is generally large, and seated on the back, or it may appear in many places in succession either on the back, or nates, or elsewhere. It is generally preceded by some affection of the stomach, sickness, or want of appetite, and constipation, and begins with asmall hard livid tumour, attended with heat and itching rather than pain. When this appears, the system generally suffers more, and there is considerable irritability, and the tongue becomes furred, and sometimes the pulse quick. The tumour slowly increases, and becomes broader, and more elevated, and often very tender to the touch, and hot to the sensation. Presently it turns almost black at the apex, and gives way there, when a little bloody fluid is -dis- charged. Then ill-smelled thin pus is furnished, and the aperture increasing, a slough is discovered under the inflamed cutis. This is long of coming away, and when extensive, is not separated till much skin have been undermined, and then there is thrown out a solid mass of cellular substance mace- rated in pus. The cutis ulcerates or sphacelates, so as to form a pretty extensive sore, and at the same time there may be other boils coming forward in various stages, whereby the strength is much impaired, and the body becomes emaciated. In this disease, the chorium has been supposed to be chiefly affected, but it goes deeper; and whilst the cutis is purple and inflamed, the subjacent cellular substance is dying, and that so deeply, as often to leave the muscles or fascia at last exposed. The sphacelus not being exposed to the air, but steeped in pus, does not become black, but is of a buff or brown colour. The practice here is to rectify the constitution by mild, but regularly exhibited laxatives, infusion of bark, or other tonics, and light, but not spare diet. The hepatic func- tion is almost invariably disordered, and therefore a blue pill should be given every night, but not so long as to affect thec231 mouth, or produce debility. The local treatment consists in making at once, as soon as the boils appear, a crucial incision through the cutis, and then applying a poultice. This pre- vents their becoming larger, and the slough, if it form, is soon detached. If, however, the carbuncle have acquired consider- able size, it should be poulticed till it give way, and then it is to be freely divided, and a poultice laid again over it. Very soon the slough can be laid hold of, and removed by cutting its stiingy attachments. It may also be bathed with solution of chloride of lime. When it begins to heal, simple dressings are proper. There may be a succession of small inflammatory tumours. First, the spot feels hot and itchy, but there is scarcely any redness to be seen. Then, a little elevated red spot appears, with smarting heat. Speedily a superficial redness extends a little way around it, along the surface, whilst it becomes itself more prominent and larger, and soon has a vesicle at its top. This seldom bursts, but rather dries, and a small dark sub- stance, partly slough and partly scab, forms, and sometimes lemains for a considerable time. The margin is hard, and remains so for many days, and desquamation of the red skin takes place. The local treatment consists in applying either a bread and milk poultice, or lint spread with simple oint- ment. I have tried to check the progress by nitrate of silver, but seldom with success. Gentle laxatives are useful for the constitutional state, and if these fail, decoction of sarsaparilla alone, or with a very small quantity of muriate of mercury will be proper. 3 he presence of an irritating and deleterious cause actin«- on the inflamed parts, is a cause also of destruction. This is exemplified in effusion of urine into the cellular substance, which soon dies, and if the most active means be not used to procure its evacuation, or prevent its farther operation, the system at aige sinks. In such cases, there are indeed other grounds of c anger, but this of itself is sufficient to prove fatal. The part < ies hist, and then the system sympathizes and sinks rapidly. Anothei troublesome, and still more dangerous species of ow inflammation, is erysipelas arising in an intemperate and232 broken, or very irritable habit, or arising in any habit from a debilitating contagion. This differs from the common ery- sipelas already considered, being attended with more pain; indeed, the sensation is sometimes that of tormenting burning, and the colour is deeper or more livid. The destruction may spread chiefly along the cutis, or that may be affected to a less degree than the subcutaneous cellular substance, which dies, whilst the surrounding parts suppurate. It comes away in portions, or in one mass of a yellow or buff colour, from being steeped in pus. The same remark holds true with regard to the tendon of the occipito-frontalis muscle, when the scalp is affected. This is more dangerous, in proportion as it affects parts remote from the heart, and of languid circula- tion. It is exceedingly apt to end in mortification, which is usually preceded by the formation of vesicles, filled with bloody serum. The fever is always high, but at last the pulse becomes very rapid, as well as wTeak; the sleep is pi’evented, and the strength sinks. The inflammation spreads, and the mortification follows the tract of inflammation. The treat- ment here consists in applying constantly cloths wet with camphorated spirit of wine, for a weaker spirit does not give relief, as I have seen, by attempts made to substitute the one for the other. Bloodletting is seldom admissible. If ever, it is only in the very first stage, and to a moderate extent. "W herever the inflammation has assumed a deep or livid colour, the practice is dangerous, and indeed, under every circumstance, after a short time has elapsed, it is doubtful. Even at the very first, we are to be regulated by the heat and redness of the parts, and the degree of fever. The rule, when we do bleed, is to be fixed as much by the number of hours which have elapsed, as by any other circumstance. Bark or quinine, when it can be retained, is to be administered, and wine given freely. It is sometimes necessary to give a bottle in a day. Opium, to the extent of five or six grains daily, may be required to allay the pain, and the bowels are to be opened by the laxatives which can be most easily taken. The diet ouo-ht to be good. When the sphacelus stops, it it have been confined to the skin and cellular substance, and be not 'ci\233 extensive, the dead parts may be thrown off, and a cure obtained by ulceration and cicatrization; but if it have gone deep, amputation is required. Allied to this in its effects, is the erysipelatous inflammation which is produced by abrasion of the skin, or laceration, or puncture, or tearing the nails in debilitated or cachectic habits. A very slight accident in a person broken down by hard living, especially it advanced in life, may be attended with the most seiious consequences. In the very commencement, he ought to be confined, and prevented from irritating farther the part. His diet ought to be regulated, and his potations, if they had foimerly been too free, must be abridged as much as is con- sistent with prudence. It is also necessary to attend to the functions of the abdominal viscera. The direct spot of the injury is best soothed by a tepid poultice, or if the skin alone be abraded, by dusting it with a bland powder. The erythe- matic portion should be bathed with spirits and water, or cloths wet with a weak solution of acetate of lead, having a small proportion of spirits added to it, should be applied ;&or if tins do not agree, we may substitute camphorated spirit of wine. No application which smarts or gives pain, ought to be continued. If the disease become more severe, and the inflammation tend to spread, the same local remedies are to be continued, whilst we give bark or quinine with wine, in suit- able doses internally, and add opium, if there be preternatural sensibility. If gangrene be threatened, or have actually com- menced, we ought to follow the same internal treatment, and if the power of the stomach be much impaired, should add the stimulus of capsicum. To the gangrenous part we may app y a ermentmg poultice, cold or tepid, as the patient shall nt most agieeable, and this is to be renewed at least two or t iree times a day. To the erysipelatous skin spirituous appli- cations should still be continued. The last case I shall put is that where inflammation arises lorn contusion or laceration, complicated perhaps with es.truction of important arteries or nerves, or with fracture ° Ve, °nes‘ Th,s must fo™» 11 very serious accident, even the best constitutions, and is more or less dangerous accord-mg to the extent and complication of the injury. As in the case of cold, so here also, mortification may follow directly from the loss of circulation or pabulum; the part dies with- out any previous excitation. But in most cases, inflammation is the great source of danger, where the part is not absolutely destroyed by the mechanical destruction itself; and the reason why this inflammation is so dangerous is, that the parts, acted on and inflamed, are very much in the debilitated condition of those which are frostbit. They are exposed to a formidable cause of disease, whilst they are by their situation rendered less able to sustain it. The principles, therefore, both theo- retical and practical, seem very plain. But this, so far from being a simple, forms a very complicated subject of consider- ation, and involves, not merely the state of the part itself, but the condition of the system, whether produced directly by the accident, or, subsequently, by the state of the part. We may, in the first place, take it for granted that the part is reduced at once to a state of weakness, and in that state sub- jected to the operation of powerful causes of inflammation. In this view, it comes simply to be a question, whether the part can or cannot, without destruction, stand any increased degree of action. But there are other conditions, besides the mere power of the part, which come into operation. For instance, the accident may have been of such a nature as to produce what may be called a shock to the system, and in which the part must of necessity participate. This, practically, whether produced by actual concussion, by sudden and severe pain, or by electric matter, consists in a state of universal debility, and therefore, in one respect, the patient, although he may have lost no blood, is reduced to a worse state than if he had sus- tained a severe haemorrhage, inasmuch as the nervous system is more particularly exhausted. Many never recover from this stage of debility, others who survive this, but from the nature of the accident, must have inflammation of the part more directly injured, are subjected to that inflammation under the most unfavourable circumstances. The treatment of this state of the system is very simple in its principle, but somewhat delicate in the application of that principle. We235 must prevent the patient, if possible, from sinking under the debility produced, and therefore, in extreme cases, we must have recourse to the use of stimulants, such as hot water, with the addition of wine or brandy, and the application of heat gene- rally to the surface. But this practice, absolutely necessary in such cases, is not without its hazard, as the state of excitement, inevitably produced, is apt to cause inflammation. Wher- ever, therefore, the patient is not sinking farther, but rather rallying, we trust to the efforts of nature, merely taking care that he be not further exhausted by any unnecessary exertion, and that the heat he himself is able to generate be retained by the application of flannel. A very irritable state of the sto- mach also may call for the exhibition of a grain of solid opium. Concussion of the brain does not come to be considered here ; but it may be well to remark, that when there seems to be any shock of the sensorium, the head should be immediately shaved, and a blister applied to the back of it. If inflammation should come on before the general effects of the shock have been recovered from, it is clear that it must attack parts in a state of debility, and where a small decree of excitement, must be productive of a great effect. The means of cure must therefore be employed promptly, but not pushed to a debilitating degree. But we are not to suppose that the shock shall be general and severe, whilst the local injury is circumscribed. The ankle or the leg may be crushed or shattered, and the whole frame debilitated, but this is only one view of the case ; for the injury is not marked by a line of demarkation precise and well defined, but it affects in a vary- ing, possibly in a decreasing ratio, the superior part of the extremity, which therefore, altogether independent of the o-ene- ral state of the system, is in a state peculiarly predisposed to and favourable for inflammation. In such a state as this, we must be peculiarly careful in preventing the operation of stimuli on parts not yet actually diseased. We must therefore not only carefully avoid the direct application of heat to, or the e ects of motion on the parts immediately above the iniured portion of the member, and the operation of all internal sti antS’ but must also> with equal ™.e, guard against the'236 communication of action from the parts above. 1 have already noticed the principle whence this danger arises, in speaking of the sympathy of communication. In the present case, as in that of frostbit parts, we must take care to keep down action in the vicinity. The treatment, general and topical, must vary with the peculiarities of the case. When inflam- mation has decidedly taken place, the first question for con- sideration is the propriety of bloodletting, and this I hold to be one of the nicest that can come before the surgeon. After all the consideration I have been able to give to the case, I feel myself unable to deliver a precise and inflexible rule. All that I can with certainty say is, that where the marks of excitement are considerable, the strength not greatly sunk, and the local inflammation strong, the lancet ought to be used on the very first appearance of the symptoms of excita- tion. The extent and frequency of the bleeding must depend on the strength and the effects ; but in general it is not safe to carry it far. It is much better to trust to the effect of leeches applied to the immediate neighbourhood of the injured part, which not only allay, so far as evacuations can allay, the existing inflammation, but also tend to lessen the action of the parts around, and thereby prevent the communication of excitement. On the same principle, when the parts above are becoming tender and swelling, and at the same time are hot, cloths soaked in cold water ought to be applied. If, on the contrary, the parts be cold, they ought either to be simply covered up, or have cloths wet with camphorated spirit of wine applied. The treatment of the part more immediately injured, must depend upon its condition. In cases where the skin remains unbroken, leeching should seldom be neglected. When an wound is inflicted, every effort ought to be made to produce adhesion by the application of adhesive plaster, supported by a roller, to be frequently moistened with cold water. We must examine early, however, the state of the parts, for the danger here is generally marked, not merely by the failure of union, but also, and principally, by the com- mencement of erysipelatous inflammation. If this take place even in a slight degree, the adhesive plaster must be aban-23 7 dned, and cloths wet with equal parts of camphorated spirit ol wine and water may be applied; but if these give pain, they are immediately to be removed, and a bread and milk poultice is to be substituted. If the parts become livid, either a yeast poultice, or cloths soaked in port wine may be used, according as the one or other shall prove comfortable. When all ol these fail to give relief, when the pain is of a burning and intolerable kind, strong camphorated spirit of wine is the best application. Under these circumstances also, suitable doses of opium must be administered, in order to relieve the pain, as nothing has a stronger tendency to increase the mis- chief than this high sensation. The farther treatment both of the constitution and of the part in more extreme cases of this inflammatio debilis, will be better introduced when treat- ing of mortification, which I am next to proceed to consider. CHAP. III. OF MORTIFICATION. Mortification, as the term implies, is the death of the part in whatever way that is produced; but it has been customary to divide it, absurdly enough, into two stages. The first is called gangrene, the second 'is sphacelus. The first derived from the Greek verb, signifying to feed upon; the second lrom that signifying to destroy. These appellations, how- ever, are a little fanciful. For practical writers explain the one merely as the beginning, and the other as the consumma- tl0n ° 1 6 eviL Hlldanus says, «gangrena est principium mortifications, sphacelus plena perfecta et absoluta.” So lono- as t e part possesses any degree of sensibility, heat or symptom of vuallty, it is said to be only gangrenous. It is, perW . ever, n0t Ver^ necessai7 to draw a distinct limit between «l?dXi rd and t,,e, "r1 condition-in w* are he pain, and the fever suddenly diminish, the part ecomes livid, colder, nearly insensible, and soft. The cuticle238 is either detached, or raised in blisters. When quite black, cold, and in a state of slough, nosologists then say it is sphacelated. Mortification has also been divided into two different kinds. When it took place slowly, without previous inflammation, it was termed the dry or chronic gangrene, because the parts became shrivelled and harder. When, on the other hand, it was preceded by inflammation, the parts dying more rapidly, retained a greater quantity of their fluids, and this was called the inflammatory, acute, or humid gangrene. It has been disputed whether in every instance gangrene were not preceded by inflammation; the answer must depend very much upon the definition we choose to give of the disease. Mortification may affect any part, and under every circumstance. I have spoken of it first as attacking parts covered with the integuments, but it may appear on surfaces usually said to be ulcerated. Then more or less of that surface, generally only a part, becomes first painful, and of a brighter red colour, next purple, and lastly black and sphacelated, and thus by the death of successive portions, there may be great destruction of substance. I need take up little time to prove that no ulcer can mortify, for the strict process of ulceration, that is the compound one of suppura- tion and granulation, cannot go on with the act of dying. An ulcer, or rather a sore, may mortify, but its action must pre- viously become inflammatory, not ulcerative. If a limb, which has been the seat of an ulcer, inflame and mortify, for example, from popliteal aneurism, or any other cause productive of mortification, we find, that the ulcer lives, whilst the skin which was only inflamed dies; if the ulcer die it first ceases to be an ulcer, and is inflamed. I appeal to the observation of attentive surgeons for the truth of this position. Parts may die, and yet remain of an ash or buff colour, and the slough may never become black. This is the case often with lymphatic glands, or portions of tendon, or of cellular substance in furunculus. Certain causes seem to produce either the black or gray slough. Sulphate of zinc applied to an ulcer, produces the gray, whilst alkaline caustic so applied, would produce the black slough. A solution of239 chloride ot soda applied to the black slough changes it into the gray, and destroys the smell. The gray or ash slough is almost an invariable product of gangrenous suppuration, that is a diffused suppuration, ending in death of the cellular sub- stance. but we must not confound such ash-coloured slough with thick exudation of fibrin, which is often met with on the tonsils and elsewhere. The system goes along with the part. The strength sinks, .e Pulse becomes weaker, generally more frequent, perhaps intermittent or irregular. Hiccup almost invariably comes on. 1 he tongue is dry; and, if the patient linger, aphthm are apt to take place. The extremities become cold, and death, often preceded by vomiting or nausea, and low delirium takes place. ben the progress is checked, the constitutional effects sowy subside, but the local is the most remarkable change. ie skin immediately beyond the gangrene, was, during the progress of the disease, livid, or affected with gangrent ous inflammation. But now it is of a brighter colour; ie character of the inflammation is altered, and speedily the oundary is marked by a line of suppuration. There is an error in the general account, for we are told that a line of inflam- mation marks the boundary, and that the ulcerative process commences there, in order, as it is said by the advocates, for a motive in the part, or determination in the adoption of a nal cause, for the dead to be separated from the living por_ tion. ut the truth is, there always was a line of inflamma- tion, but ,t was of a different character. It is now healthy • it was formerly gangrenous. The demarkation, however ii not altogether by this line, but by its surface next die gangienous part, and tins is not in a state of ulceration, but ■wS ”? “ ‘he suppurative action. We hnd that nohtemorrhage attends this separation, althou.d, tge vessels be interested. The blood cannot circulated he sphacelated part, for that is all a dead mass; but how U this detached without leaving an orifice at the senary 1 vessel in the sound parts. We are told that the blood cot ** ales, and the vessel, so far as is necessary beyond the spine' f - obhterated. I suspect an effect is pu, bed ib, a ^ “ti‘24,0 that steps leading to obliteration, are as often productive of coagulation, as produced by it. The vessel participates in the inflammation which is of a healthy kind now, and is fol- lowed, as it would be in any other instance, by adhesion, and the separation takes place by the suppurative process, acting on this obliterated or adhering portion. Were it to travel upwards it would open the artery, but it only goes in a line through it like a knife. If we apply nitrate of silver, or any other acrid substance, to the web of a frog’s foot, we find that even before a slough form, the vessels cease to circulate blood, and in some places seem to be empty; in others, the fluid is pale and dusky. Then, round the slough, the vessels are red and numerous, and the circulation distinct, but the blood never goes into the dead part, the arteries end in the veins, and a kind of border of vessels is formed round the dead margin, just as formerly we found at the natural margin of the web, but more distinct. What happens in the frog, takes place in other mortifications, and therefore no haemorrhage can take place unless the vessels open by sup- puration. Mortification is the death of the part, and may be accom- plished in various ways. A ligature applied with sufficient tightness around the finger, will destroy that finger, with- out any interference of inflammation. The exposure of the finger, after being frostbit, to a slight degiee of heat, is productive of the same event, through the intervention of inflammation. As one man may die by the hands of the executioner, and another by a pleurisy, so may two parts become mortified in different ways. Inflammation is not necessary to the production of mortification; even the pre- existence of great pain is no proof that inflammation has been present. Cramp may prove speedily fatal, merely as a disease of sensation. It may produce gangrene, without any previous inflammation; or it may end in inflammation. Alkaline caustic produces directly a slough or complete sphacelus, to the full satisfaction of the strictest nosologist, without any previous inflammation. There is great pain undoubtedly, and inflammation may affect subsequently the neighbouring241 parts, but it never existed in the sphacelated portion. A part, therefore, it is evident, may mortify in different ways : it may PeiJSh horn want of nourishment, or it may be destroyed by o\eiaction. Ihe lower that the power of a part is, the less able is it to bear up under action, and the more numerous that the excitements are, the sooner must any part be destroyed. The consideration, then, of mortification is not so simple as might at first be supposed; for it involves an attention to many different points. We must attend to the healthy and natural condition of the part; to its previous state before the accession of disease; to the influence which the constitution lias over it; to the relative degree of inflammation compared to tie power of the part; to the complication of that inflam- mation with more or less sensation, with more or less impedi- ment to the circulation, with its connexion with textures more or less delicate, and its modification by those inexplica- cone itions, which for want of better language we call specific. When we examine into the state of a part on the rrlT°n’m COnse(luence of previous inflammation, / . exhlbltlng the appearances of a part inflamed, and a part dying. The previous symptoms of inflammation still in Pat t exist, there is still swelling, still an increased quantity of fluid, still numerous blood-vessels, still much pain; but t iere is more venous congestion, consequently more livklity • there is less secretion of heat ; the cuticle is more ejy separate ; isters filled with bloody serum appear; the part s dying but the appearances are not those of a part dyino- fiom debility, of apart dying without disorganization;' but they are those of an inflamed part dying; of a part dyino undei the existence of organic disease. When the body Ls& ejy part dies dong with it; but they die in what maybe called a state of tranquillity; in the possession of their pro- pel ties; they perish from mere debility; but here the part £erIent of ^rest °f th* ^ * »— ness and disease peculiar to, and resident in itself. Mortifi cation then, following upon inflammation, is the death of an ■"flamed part, and if we could suppose s/nocha 6r Mall-lory fever to be a general inflammatory action, without any peculiar affection of one organ, and to carry on its attack to the ultimate exhaustion and extinction of the vital principle, we should say that mortification is precisely the same thing in a concentrated degree. So far as we have gone, we have merely viewed mortification as the death of an inflamed part; but we must extend our view and remember, that as a part sympa- thizes with the system, so the system sympathizes with a part. There may indeed be actions in a part, so transitory, although severe, or so slight, that the system is scarcely if at all influenced by them; but waving all speculative considerations, I lay it down as a practical and incontrovertible rule, that when once the system does sympathize with the diseased or unhealthy action of any part, it continues to be influenced by every change and modification which takes place in that part; it is bound as if by a spell, to the destiny of that part; as the part leads it must follow; and it is only by the influence of superior power that it is prevented from being dragged in every instance to the same degree of destruction. In the inflammatory stage, the system is in a state of simple inflam- matory excitement. As the part sinks in its power, and appi'oaches towards a state of death, so does the body, but not every where in an equal degree. The sinking or depressed condition is most intense in the part dying, but not yet dead; less so in the part adjoining, and still less so as we recede. The effect produced on the system, depends on the sympathy excited by the existing inflammation. A part may be killed without inflammation, or without such inflammation as affects the system, and no constitutional injury shall be sustained. This we see in eschars produced by the application of caustic. But in cases where previous inflammation has produced con- stitutional disorder, or fever, we invariably find that the slightest change in the local condition influences the consti- tution, but influences it not in an equal, but in a decreasing ratio, as we recede from the part. What the state of the part is, so long as it is at all alive, such is the condition essentially, but not to the same degree, of the system at large. With a dead or sphacelated part, the system can hold noeommu" cat'on nor exhibit any sympathy. The actual nioi tification, therefore, of a foot can, the death of the part be,ng complete, have no more effect upon the body, on this pane,pie, than the death and burial of a distant relation. It s to the effect produced by that part upon the body, previous o ,ts death and the influence still exerted by the pm-ts, which I ood5 h ? “g’ neverthdess are dying in its neighbour- hood that we are to attnbute both the propagation of disease m,d the extinction of life. If this view, then! be correct, the action if it ha 1 ' Td 7g-T djing ™der ‘hat iniiatnmatory act,on, ,f ,t had exeted a decided sympathy with the neighbour- hood and the constitution, must be more dangerous abhou” , :r::z:rb7been ai~ not ] likeivto fl extremity, produced under circumstances ' be apnltd s !“ehnr “ Wge' Could a ligature would^ ° fath °f the **• such taf actio.1 * n™, 7litt,e tor 11 foIWs we are not to look merely to the extern ^prove, that nor even to the natural delicacy or vigour of u,e°C'1 '■'“to’ but must consider the cire.unstLces „°nder whid, TL 7 \ on; the pecuhar characters of the inflammation; and abort all, the intensity of the influence produced from fit L last on the constitution. I have thus far confined the !' entn-ely to the sympathetic effects produced byganm enc 21 hese are qtute sufficient of themselves to accL.it ft an T danger. But my opinion, after the lapse of many ° ,f, ? remains unshaken, that gangrene farther affects the net,ton ■ng parts and the constitution, by the direct unnW parts yet capable of being acted upon, of the destrudfrT ‘° pmsonons matter of putrid animaUubstance. The effect rf Sr? who;a ■natter applied to a raw ’ 7 “ “ Ute''US' Puf-id inflammation is of a debilitated k'"'7d '"o'"”68 and tl,e stitution beyond wW i" ’ a"d lnfluen«s «‘e con- tend what can be explained by the mere extent of244 surface affected. There is, however, more or less suscepti- bility ol both the local and general influence at different times. A man may have putrid animal substance applied to a scratch to-day, with only the most trifling and temporary effect, but if done a month afterwards, the disease might be dangerous. I have inserted putrid animal matter under the skin of a rabbit, sometimes without producing much inflam- mation, at other times a superficial slough was speedily formed. Applied to the web of a frog, it is found to quicken the cir- culation. Experiments have been made by others to ascer- tain the effect of injecting putrid fluid into the veins, and the result has been the production of a febrile and depressed state. Having thus far explained the propagation of the low inflam- mation, and then of the gangrene along the limb, and the sympathetic effects on the constitution, even to the extinction of life, and having explicitly admitted the danger of gangren- ous inflammation in any part to the smallest extent, if the sympathy of communication have come into operation, it will naturally be asked, how any case of recovery can take place, or what resources I have left for stopping the ravages of disease: for if this spot be actually dead, and the line beyond that moribund and irrecoverable, and the portion beyond that again, although living under all the activity of inflammatory action, yet in a state so dangerous as to be pronounced almost irretrievable, and the successive limits beyond that again, pressing forward, if I may use the expression, to the same state of danger and exhaustion, it is clear that in succession the whole limb must come in successive portions to yield to the same influence and be involved in the same destruction, and that as a single spark may consume a whole building, so one spot of gangrene shall destroy the whole frame. That this ■ unfortunately is too often the case cannot be denied; but if it be not an invariable event, how does recovery take place? When speaking of inflammation I stated that it was a new action, substituted in place of the natural or healthy one, and that on the principle of the sympathy of communication, there was a tendency to extend, but with a gradually decreas- ing activity; that whilst the sympathy of communication245 became the cause to a certain degree of the extension of disease, it was our only resource for the restoration of health, for the parts yet in a state of proper or comparatively natural action, would in their turn react on the diseased part v hen its activity had begun to flag„ and restore it, if the oiganization were not irretrievably injured, gradually to a state of health. In the same way, in the present case, if the local disease and the sympathy it excites do not overpower the system, the reflux, if I may so speak, of the natural or healthy action of the system, will meet and give a check to the propa- gation ol the disease; and we may therefore, were it allowable to introduce fanciful imagery, say, that we had two contend- ing powers, warring in contrary directions, and as one or other gained the superiority so would the fate of the day be. That there is a power of resistance in the system, explain it in what way we choose, is evident from the consideration that were there none the disorder must inevitably spread, and in every instance overpower the constitution. On the other hand, were the means of resistance always adequate, disease should never advance beyond, or far beyond its original seat. There is then a contest as it were between health and disease, the dis- ordered action tending to establish itself in place of the healthy, or what may be called the natural action; and as one or other shall prevail so is the result, the victory or defeat of the constitution or system at large depending much on the intensity ol the cause, its obstinacy, and the power of resistance which can be offered. Gangrenous inflammation spreads, the pai t is predisposed to its reception by weakness, and the shades become indistinct, as we mark the state downward i om the trunk to the mortification. First, we find a condition o gieat debility, but not of simple weakness; for as the part w Inch has caused all the evil is not in a state of mere debility ut of gangrenous inflammation sinking towards death, so c oes it by sympathy modify the whole frame more or less, and pioi uce an universal state ol proneness toward a similar con- t ition. Then, we find as we approach nearer the focus of c lsease, an incipient, and next a confirmed low inflammation eepening into the moribund state, and thence into sphacelus;whilst this continues no hope can be entertained of recovery: as a harbinger of destruction the part sends out its messenger aimed with this deadly weapon, and as it advances it finds a leady disposition to embrace or yield to the evil. It is not to a cessation of the inflammation in the vicinity of the mor- tification that we are to look for a termination of the ravages, so much as to a change in the character of this inflammation, and the moment this change takes place the predisposition diminishes or ceases; an inflammation not of the low gangren- ous kind is established, the tendency of which is not to mor- tification but to suppuration. Causes may renew the gangrene, 01 the constitution may sink under the new order of things, but it is free from danger from the original attack. The pro- gress is stopt, the inflammation has changed its type, the con- sequent sympathies are altered, there is no longer a propa- gation of weakness, which for want of a better term may be called depressing mortifying weakness, followed by dying inflammation. This explanation will not be satisfactory if we merely trace the extension of the disease in its regular and inevitably increasing ravages from the original seat of the injury; for why does the disease proceed, it may be said, gradually from the ankle to the knee, by the predisposition of parts, in regular succession, and not inevitably proceed from the knee to the groin by the very same cause. To this I have only to reply, that the nearer we approach the trunk of the body the more vigorous is the natural action, and the greater the power of resistance. But when the circumstances under which the mortification has taken place, have been such as powerfully to debilitate the whole frame, no such salutary re- sistance can be exhibited. The progress of the gangrene goes on without interruption; and long before any vital part be reached by the actual disease, the powers of life are extin- guished. From all that has been said, it is evident that gan- grene may appear and spread under two circumstances, which differ from each other chiefly in the point of predisposition. First, it may occur very much as a local affection, without being either dependant on, or productive of any very power- ful constitutional disorder. In this case it spreads in general24-7 slowly; or if somewhat more rapid in its progress, it gains giound chiefly by the mere influence of the moribund part on the part which is immediately beyond it; and were we to cut at a considerable distance from this, we should cut in parts comparatively healthy. Second, there may be keen constitu- tional sympathy, and no part either of the member or of the frame may be in a state capable of resisting a fresh injury. e have m this case the disease spreading, not simply by the s) mpat ly of moribund parts on those immediately adjacent, which they found, and acted on, in a state free from peculiar predisposition, but, on the contrary, they and the whole member are by the constitutional disorder ready prepared for the reception of the gangrene, and prone to assume the gan- grenous inflammation, on the application of any excitiim cause, w lether that consist in the propagation of action from ie parts below, or in the application of the knife of the surgeon. A practical inference from this is, that in the first case we might perform amputation, with a hope of success, at any period of the disease, provided there were mere strength enough m the system to sustain the shock of the operation, or ling m the condition of the arteries to prevent the ade- quate circulation of the blood near the stump. Whereas in the second, it is evident that an operation performed before the disease be checked, must be performed on parts in a tTchsease01 aCtUaliy dlSeaSed’ at leaSt of strong predisposition In the treatment of gangrene we must confine our views to the management of parts still living: it is on these alone, that we can exert any influence. There are two ways in 4ich ive may conduct our plan of treatment. The first is, to en- deavour to alter the nature of the gangrenous inflammation, by converting it into one of a safer kind, more disposed to end suppuration than in gangrene. The second is, to invi .orate the system, and thereby procure a greater power of resistance to the ravages of disease. These two plans mi., mutually assist each other. But unfortunately it is easier f - to declare our intentions, than put die in “ 2 th a ViCW °f dterin« *e "««« of the inflammatL, and248 converting that of the low into a more vigorous kind, it has for ages been the practice to have recourse to the application of stimulants, which were chiefly of a resinous nature, and sometimes were used scalding hot. I have already recom- mended what appears most useful in mortification superven- ing on wounds, and given my opinion regarding those cases requiring or admitting the application of leeches or cold water. At present I am strictly to confine myself to the remedies to be used in inflammatio debilis, or low gangrenous inflammation. When the heat of the part is not only increased to the sensation of the patient, but is even above the rest of the body when felt by the hand of another, cloths wet with cold water should be applied at least for a time; and these may be of service, even if the part be not actually hot, but only so to the sensation of the patient. The rule here, as in other cases of inflammation, is to lessen the action, or obviate particular symptoms. But when the actual heat, whatever the sensation may be, is at or under the ordinary temperature or degree of the parts in a state of health, some applications which tend to change more directly the condition of the in- flammation are required. The most useful of these consist in stimulants. The first ought to be rather mild, and never ought to occasion continued smarting; for whatever gives pain does harm. Where the skin is not broken, or is covered with a very thin layer of substance nearly dead, one of the best applications, and perhaps one of the mildest of such stimulants as produce any effect at all, is spirit of wine alone, or with the addition of camphor: pledgets dipped in this are to be applied, and frequently changed. These, if they are to do good, speedily abate the pain. When, on the contrary, they aggravate the sensation, they are immediately to be abandoned. Some may startle at my speaking of this as a moderate stimulant, forgetting that what produces a power- ful effect on the palate may not produce the same effect on • the skin. When this disagrees, we may try either a cold or tepid solution of muriate of ammonia, but not of such strength as to smart. If this disagree, we must try poultices made either of port wine with a sufficient quantity of crumb of24 9 bread, or linseed meal, or of the stale grounds of strong aIe mixed with oatmeal. This practice, it may be said, is empiri- cal, in as much as it is to be adopted by our actual experiment, lather than by reasoning a priori. I cannot, however, o-ive any better rule, and I hope that it will be admitted that he must je an an excusable practitioner who would sacrifice his patient met o lea y, rather than humbly feel his way by experiment. 1 he local remedies I have spoken of are very few, and are of a nature more or less stimulant; and to these many others might be added, but I question if with any advantage. Although o opinion that stimulants, varying with the sensibility of the part, are often useful applications, yet, sometimes the part ^es best by being virtually let alone; that is merely covered th some soft defence, such as a bread and milk poultice, or using tepid fomentations of decoction of poppy heads. When an u ceiated surface is attacked by gangrenous inflammation, Id applications generally succeed better than stimulants of n^rCfPr T!^ fermentinS poultice,-weak solution of mate of silver—diluted nitrous acid-carrot poultices, &c aie frequently employed, and though sometimes useful, are generally less so than emollient poultices or simple dressings Leeches have also been proposed in the case of sloughiL phagedena, being applied to the neighbourhood of the parr ut „e, lel. in this, contain, not in the gangrenous inZZll Whin n 7 T fT* COnside™S’ 1 recommend them. ti ^ t..S 0US 1 las Qlme<a and tlie disease seems at a stand le application of weak solution of chloride of lime, or of 1 poultice made with that and bread, not only des ro, s L -eh hut seems to hasten the separation of JslouglT len the gangrene has stopped, and the line of demarkation -appeared, oil pf turpentine and other strong stimuC* bZnZn7:T? ",local appfati°- Th- m“y act on r r d ‘° the SPhacelus’ w^ere they can only acton chemical principles; but if made as dressings to the „ I aits, we must be cautious in their indiscriminate use 17 Str°nsest application that it is in general safe to aonlv ri250 With regard to the constitutional treatment, there has been considerable Variety of opinion; and few questions can be inoie important to the surgeon. Some have talked very loosely of blood-letting; whilst others, from the very first, pour in stimulants. Maggius, in the middle of the sixteenth century, advises free evacuations. Hildanus in plethoric subjects advises venesection, and Heister, one of the most popular writers in his day, says, that in strong and phlethoric habits we should bleed freely. Succeeding writers, even to the present day, have copied these authorities. And very lately it has, from experiments on horses, been proposed in disease produced by putrid matter to bleed, on the principle that the mass of blood became diseased, and venesection abstracted a quantity of morbid blood. I have already given my opinion with regard to the propriety of this practice, in certain cases of severe injury, when a considerable part of a member is in a state of acute inflammation, and a portion of it perhaps approaching towards gangrene, not so much in con- sequence of the inflammation considered in its general charac- tei*, as from the greater degree of injury that has been inflicted upon it, a degree so great as to disorganize and mash it: the lancet early and prudently employed, may be a mean of pre- venting that part of the limb which may be said simply to be inflamed from being affected by the gangrene. Whether it be or be not proper in a particular case of injury, must depend on the kind and degree of the inflammation. There is another case somewhat analogous, where evacuation may be useful, and that is when the inflammation affects only a com- paratively small surface, but the part is delicate, and from some peculiarity of structure or local condition, a small portion of that has suffered and sunk more than the rest. The system also is highly excited, and the pulse is frequent and throbbing. For example, the prepuce and extremity of the penis become inflamed and swollen. From the gorging of the cellular sub- stance, and perhaps from some other cause of strangulation or obstruction to the free return of blood, one spot has become livid; may it not be supposed that venesection by allaying the fever shall prevent injurious reaction on the part, or that251 topical bleeding might lessen the inflammation in a part not yet sinking. Assuredly there are such cases though rare; and the lancet even in those cases which I have alluded to, is to be used with caution, and always with attention to its effects on the pulse and strength; and I strongly protest against tesot ting to the use of this remedy in a case altogether t ii eient. When gangtene has taken place from constitu- tional causes, from erysipelas, in fact from any cause or under any circumstance besides that to which I have alluded, I hold t te ancet to be inadmissable. The question is not, whether at any stage bleeding might not have been proper, or whether m a particular instance brought before us, the early detrac- tion of blood might not have checked the inflammation or pre- vented it from ending in gangrene. Were this the point at issue, I should say, that in all doubtful cases it is safer to lean to the side of the lancet. What is admissable, and even imperatively called for early, may be injurious if postponed, bleed S ‘ened ^ thC SPecuIation of deWlity do^s not bleed at he very first ,n severe erysipelatous or other inflam- ations tending to the low or gangrenous kind, having lost only stage at which the practice was likely to do o-0od must not resort to it after the gangrenous character is estab- lished. Independent of character, time, the lapse of hours 16 m!aflon of the disease, must not be overlooked and more especially we must consider whether the disease ’have taken place in a constitution previously good or in one broken y intemperance or previous ailments, or be induced hv n, game affections of the organs of circulation. Btu prect pies .on before us is, whether the inflammation being now of he low and gangrenous kind, this mean can be resorted to advantageously, and to it I must decidedly answer In the thS * T' S " collcelvable> after the view we have taken of inflammation, and what is more to the point, afe the Jated, another gangr’enous^X in a' slTte X* ^ approaching that condition, ant, yet tlml system atT’0” ^ n°th‘ng °f Pa«a — adjacent to the ^ ^252 be in a state to be benefited by depletion. Either all that we have been taught respecting the doctrine of sympathy is a mere foolery, and the whole system of pathology a delusion, or this practice must be destructive. The same remark I apprehend is applicable to all powerful evacuations, but we are not on that account to refrain from the use of mild laxatives, and at the same time, if the skin be hot and parched, the saline julap may be useful. With regard to the diet there has been the same variety of opinion as with blood-letting. Heister after telling us that in strong and plethoric habits we are to bleed largely, and to repeat the operation at discretion, adds, that to such patients we are to prescribe soups and ptisans mixed with lemon juice; but if the patient be older, or weaker, we are to give strengthening broths, “ also suppings of ale boiled with the yolks of eggs, cinnamon, and sugar. Old and rich wines; fine ales, especially for the poor, are to be added.” As there are two kinds of diet, the nourishing and debilitating; so there are two kinds of the former: the one is nourishing, but not stimulating, the other is both. Some articles prove either the one or the other, according to the state of the system, or the activity of the stomach. I appre- hend there has been mischief done by not attending to this fact. It is scarcely possible to conceive any case at all con- nected with those we are at present considering, where it would not be proper to support the strength by suitable nou- rishment : for even in those cases where we had some hesita- tion with regard to the propriety or safety of blood-letting, we can have none with regard to the necessity of supporting the strength. It is one thing to support the system by a mild pabulum, and another to employ a pabulum which is at the same time stimulating. No one will say that arrow-root- jelly, or chicken broth, are the same in their effects with Heister’s suppings of ale and yolks of eggs; or that a dinner of beef tea will have the same effect as one of beef steak. We are told by some systematics, that milk and vegetables should constitute the diet during the progress of the disease, and that animal nourishment should rarely be ventured upon till the gangrene stop. But it is by no means probable that‘253 milk and vegetables could be so easily digested, as mild ani- mal soups; and it is worth considering, whether the acetous fermentation into which they run might not prove more injurious, than any supposed stimulus produced by mild soups. I hat diet which is most easily digested, and followed in a weak state by least excitement of the system, is the best in every instance. Whilst, therefore, I would not abstain, during any stage of this disease, from the use of weak soups and animal jellies, I would at every period have some hesita- tion in recommending solid animal food, unless the patient expressed a strong relish for it, and had no febrile exacerba- tion after it. Food ought never to be given largely at once; it ought to be taken more frequently than in health, and in small quantity, not more at a time than the stomach can easily digest. Unswayed by systems and speculations, I say that it may be given of any kind, and to any extent which can be digested, if febrile excitement be not produced. . rile medlclnes prescribed have usually been of a stimulat- ing nature, such as aromatics, tinctures, and wines, with or without opium. I conceive it to be very doubtful whether aromatics and essential oils ever have done any good, farther than as they may, in particular instances, have acted beneficially on the stomach. But as wine is a medicine of more decided power, capable of doing both more good and more mischief, 1 feel called upon to point out, as explicitly as I can, those cases m which it is admissible. Under those circumstances in w lie we have been balancing the arguments for and against blood-letting, and have determined against it, it is sure y premature to talk of giving wine. Even when we have ceasec o t nn v o the admissibility of evacuations, it does not ol ow that wine is either required or would be safe. It is .on y w ien t ie gangrene has declared itself, when the consti- tution has actually begun to decline, that the cautious exliibi- mn of wine is called for. There is a turning point, which 'e must not pass too far before we begin it, neither must we ommence too soon. Haifa glassful of that kind most shall lik I P?ent’ I1'161'alone diluted with water, a°s he Sha" llU beSt> be given in tl.e first instance. If this25 4 should produce an increase of pain or of throbbing in the puit, with an exacerbation of the fever, we have begun some- what too soon. On the contrary, if the local uneasiness be not increased, if the pulse become rather less frequent, the heat ol the skin not preternaturally increased, the general feeling moie comfortable, and the action of the stomach be impioved, and hiccup (it it had come on) be suspended,—if, instead of being more restless, the patient be, if not sleepy, at least tranquil, wine is doing good. The dose is to be lepeated as soon as the patient feels a desire for it; and the quantity to be altogether given in twenty-four hours must, like the administration of a second dose, be regulated by the effects. If the patient become heated, fever increased, deli- rium produced, or the local disease accelerated under its exhibition, we are going too far. But so long as wine, on the contrary, produces agreeable and beneficial effects, we are to proceed. The quantity, then, to be given in a limited time must depend on the effect. Two glassfuls may in one case be sufficient in twenty-four hours ; in another two bottles may be taken in the same time. This, it may be said, is a very vague direction ; but I will be happy to find a better rule delivered, than, that we should be regulated entirely in the quantity of stimulus we offer by the effect of the stimulation. When wine by itself does not agree with the stomach, aro- matics with hot water may be added, or we may give diluted brandy, or any other form of alcohol better relished by the patient. In some of those cases, where wine is not yet admissible, or where it is only allowable in very small quan- tity, we may derive advantage from stimulants of a different description ; for instance, a bolus may be given of five or six grains of carbonate of ammonia, and double the quantity of musk with a sufficient quantity of conserve of roses. This may be repeated every three or four hours, and it is particularly required where the hiccup is troublesome. In almost every instance opium, in the form which agrees best with the patient, is indispensable. The rule to be given with regard to the quan- tity to be exhibited, and the frequency of the exhibition, is to allay pain, to prevent its renewal to a great degree, but not2 55 to Pr°duce either stupor or sickness. As much wine may be taken in this disease without intoxication, so also may many grams of opium be taken within twenty-four hours, without producing stupor or delirium. And as with regard to wine, so also in respect to opium must the quantity prescribed be regulated by the effects. The object is to allay pain, and thus remove an exciting cause of irritation and exhaustion, and it is in this way that opium acts in the gangrene attack- ing o people in the toes, or produced by ergot. There is " !Tty T 11(?h } et remains to be spoken of, concern- 1C^ here haS been a diversity of opinion : I mean cin- chona. Some have considered this as little less than an infill- hble remedy, whilst others hold it to be utterly useless. Mr. xushwor h of Northampton, in a printed letter addressed in that ha^i„XOe?c:LTl^T\SS7e0n" “!’ inf°™S ‘he'"> nf tit f , f ’ n 171to a man Wltb a mortification having °° !°m an internal cause, and former experience me ™f 7T ’I”1/ d’e °f station - a toTt " K , 8, ?Se’ 1W ‘‘’““S’11 !t useless to resort the h 1 but Providence,” says he, “ first directed me to order e bark, whilst there was a remission of the fever ” It sue ceeded, and he then took off the limb with succest S„ mjant, in a letter in return, says, that he had tried°it in seven cases, and with so much success tint- It be emiallv • • , . , s’ that be conceives it to in mf L, TS,In S SeaSe “ in "**■ Mr■ Douglas, ion h ,US 1 'le TOS calIed ‘° “ Patient with mortifica- hin-Ji andretheet° niUI ratment had f“iled- The fever was vCwld^L Teeh d ,7 rugh ,‘° grate a m,tm^his belly. SeNanV nib i"™ paU1 on 0,,e sido of his ir y ffeant Dlckens and Mr. Cheselden were brought failed Te*1 a'K' ^ formersaid 'but as every thin* had 6 TOuld ProPose bark, not on his own knowfed^e m o„ the of Amyand. Mr. Cheselden agreed that 1 could do no harm, but said that he never heard of its dot! C “ ^ Dr- NewinStou. who acted as physfXn° jS ' LZTjr the manW°Uld die tlle "ext day, bu!256 was therefore agreed, that in absence of a regular permit from the graduate, half a drachm should be smuggled into the stomach of the patient every four hours. The mortifica- tion stopped, and he recovered on the removal of all the bones of his foot. The medicine immediately acquired greater celebrity, but even at a very early period doubts were enter- tained of its efficacy, and Mr. Sharp, after telling us that he made many trials of it, says that he was not satisfied that it was better than the usual cordials. This seems to be very much the present opinion. We may partly account for the failure of bark, by observing how frequently it is adulterated, or how little quinine is contained in many specimens. But besides this, whatever virtue the drug possesses, it is clear as noon-day, that it cannot be equally efficacious in every variety of this disease. There are some causes of mortification, o\ ei which it can have no more control than animal magnetism. In that kind which we are at present considering, I am satis- fied that it is frequently of service; and if on so serious a subject I might use the expression, I should certainly say that it was amusing to find some who believe bark to be nearly inert, prohibiting at the same time its exhibition, dining the existence of inflammation. Half a drachm of the powder of bark, or three grains of the sulphate of quinine, may be given every three or four hours, in the medium most acceptable to the patient. Where it is rejected by the stomach, or produces sickness or diarrhoea, or diminishes the inclination for food or nourishment, it is decidedly improper. Where it produces no bad effects, it is surely, at least, harm- less. Some forbid its use till the tongue become clean, and the bowels have been subjected to methodical purges. I approve of having the alvine accumulation discharged, but see no necessity for prolonged evacuation, or waiting for a clean tongue ; that is to say, waiting till it is no longer needed, till nature have gained the victory. Douglass’s patient derived advantage from the bark, although his tongue was “ as dry as a nutmeg grater ” Aromatics are supposed to make bark lighter, whilst the addition of a little rhubarb, or of opium, is proposed when it acts on the bowels. I am not confident257 that such proposals are useless ; but I am nevertheless strongly inclined to believe, that where bark really is to do good, it will need no corrective. The dose may rather be diminished, lor it is quite a mistake to suppose that the beneficial effect of bark or of any medicine, is in the direct ratio of the quantity swallowed. A little sulphuric acid may advantageously be given with the sulphate of quinine. Another subject of the highest importance for our consider- ation is, the proposal of separating by the knife, the dead from the living parts. When the disease advanced in spite of the remedies that were employed, almost the whole of the older writers advised amputation, as a mean of stopping its pro- gless; and, with the exception of Franco, they uniformly describe this operation in their chapter on gangrene, rhe earliest writers advise that we should cut away some of he sound, rather than leave any of the diseased flesh. In the beginning of the sixteenth century, Vigo, and, many years afterwards, Fabricius, with a view both of saving pain, and preventing hemorrhage, proposed to cut rather in the dead than in the living parts. It is quite clear, that on the princi- ple of amputation being a remedy for gangrene, this plan CO Id never be attended with success, inasmuch as there was still a diseased surface left; and, in point of fact, the only i eience was, that the quantity of gangrene was greater >c °ie than after the operation; but in no other respect was le case altered. Those who, in order to destroy more effectually all vestiges of the disease, as well as to check hemorrhage used the actual cautery after amputation, cer- ain y acted better up to the avowed principle. The general plan, however, was to cut at such a distance from the ganm-ene as to ensure, if possible, the division in a sound part. Two « Ijects, combined together, seem to have been kept in view bv hese surgeons,-to save the life of the patient, and to do this y cutting off all communication with the affected part It therefore formed no part of their plan Co wait JT0J encmg separation of the parts, far less for a stoppage in fl *2nZl 1,16 ‘"“T ' Hi,d“US> «■'«> that before ° ° amPUtatlon’ we prepare the body for it, by purga- stives, diet, &c., but contemplated nothing farther. Heister gave his readers no instruction with regard to the necessity of waiting till the mortification had stopped; but only advises, that, from prudential motives, they should previously call in a “physician or two.” It is not easy to say at what pre- cise time it came to be thought necessary to delay the opera- tion, till the gangrene had stopped, or, in other words, to have recourse to it not so much as a remedy against mortifi- cation, as to get rid of a sphacelated mass. Various essays, published between 1738 and 1746, rendered surgeons wary of pei'forming the operation prematurely. Quesnay amputated after the gangrene stopped; and Mr. Sharp, before the mid- dle of the 18th century, made it an absolute rule, in all cases arising from constitutional or internal causes, never to ampu- tate till the progress had stopped, being well aware that the operation at an earlier period, would be followed by a renewal of the mortification. He does not, however, make this rule absolute with regard to gangrene, occasioned by external inj ury; but even in that case, is very cautious of admitting any exception. The limb, he observes, is generally inflamed and swollen a considerable way above the gangrene, contain- ing the seeds of a future disease. Boucher adopts the same opinion with Mr. Sharp, and prohibits the operation when there is any inflammatory swelling above. Presently the rule in all cases was made unexceptionable. One of the earliest of our modern surgeons, who returned to the old advice of employing amputation as a remedy against gangrene, in cases arising from external injury, was Larrey, who strongly recom- mends amputation in traumatic gangrene, as a mean of stopping its progress. All seem (and with justice) agreed on the danger of operating in constitutional gangrene, so long as it continues. In all cases of mortification, succeeding to erysipelas, or inflammatio debilis connected with constitutional disease, or dependant on causes affecting the circulation, as for instance, hydrothorax, diseased heart, or ossification of the arteries, we lay it down as an undeviating principle, that we are not in any one instance to operate, till we ascertain, by a check being put to the local disease, that the constitu-259 cion has acquired the necessary power of resistance and recovery. Even then it still remains a question how far amputation, secundum artem, is allowable. In all those cases where gangrene in elderly or very debilitated patients, arises bom, or is connected with, languid circulation, a regular amputation must be attended with much hazard; and I have always found it much safer to adopt the practice of Vigo and of Fabricius, of dividing the dead in the immediate vicinity o the living parts, and then sawing through the bone. We thus, without either pain or haemorrhage, get rid of a putrid limb. Tins rule of delay does not apply strictly to cases arising rom local causes, whether these may consist in external injury, or in the destruction of the circulation by aneurism, or the rupture of arteries. Mortification from wounded arteries, or the direct action of great cold, or other debilitating causes, may arise without any previous evident inflammation. It is t e mere death of the part from debility, or failure of power without any excitement, and generally without pain, at least till some progress have been made in the advancement of the eath. 1 he disease here, does not arise from disorder of the constitution, although it may afterwards produce it, and become associated with it. Where the gangrene is spreading, and the constitution is previously not unsound, nor as yet drawn into a state of great disorder or weakness by sympathy with the local disease, and more especially where the upper part of the limb has not become in any degree inflamed or swollen, we may, if the gangrene be advancing, amputate at once in the sound part. On the other hand, when the constitution has been previously unsound, and the accession o gangrene seems to have depended more on that state of the constitution than on the actual degree of the injury; and more especially when the limb above is swelling, amputation must ie itt e ess hazardous than in cases arising entirelv rom an internal cause. In our deliberation, we must attend muc i, not merely to the actual degree of fever and debility m to i )e circumstances connected with the sympathy that has taken place between the general and local condition260 The practical problem is to determine that state in which either adhesion or suppuration, not gangrene, shall follow an wound. In idiopathic gangrene we may judge by two circum- stances ; the improvement in the health, and the cessation of mortification, in place of which, suppuration takes place. It has been said that adhesive inflammation was the mark of safety; but it is really the direct establishment of suppura- tion, or of inflammation ending in that action, which forms the proof. First, a very small line of suppuration at the very surface appears, and this gradually grows deeper. Ulcera- tion is quite a different and a subsequent process. If an operation be performed on parts simply debilitated, either adhesion or suppuration shall be the result; but in this disease there is something peculiar in the parts we cut, predisposing them to mortification. The signs of the existence of this pre- disposition must be taken from the condition of the system, as well as from the progress made by the local affection. Where we are satisfied of the existence of predisposition, it would be madness to operate; but where that is not appre- hended, there is no inevitable cause of failure. In gangrene, arising, therefore, from local causes, or without predisposition, the operation may be performed at any time, if we choose a sound place. Having asserted, that, in idiopathic gangrene, the mark of safety is to be drawn from a change in the nature of the inflammation, and a tendency to terminate in suppura- tion, it may be suggested, whether material benefit might not be derived from the use of such substances as might promote suppuration. For example, what would the effect be of applying caustic to the integuments, a little above the disease, so as to surround the whole limb with a narrow circle of eschar; would the mortification stop when it came to the under margin of this circle, and would the integuments begin to suppurate at the upper one ? If this were so, we might stop the progress in the integuments, but what would become of the subjacent parts ? I do not know that the plan of forming a circle of eschar has been methodically practised; but, diluted muriatic acid, or even stronger escharotics have been applied, and deep scarifications have been made through the261 dead to allow them to come in contact with the living parts. 1 he result was said to be favourable; but subsequent and more impartial observation seems not to have confirmed the report, and the practice is now seldom adopted. Were the disease confined, altogether to the skin, the formation of a complete circle of eschar, if it did not arrest the progress of the disease, at least could scarcely be expected to promote it. A portion of skin may be so bruised as to die speedily, whilst the rest of the injured part has suffered comparatively little. In such cases, the gangrened portion is thrown off without any interference from us, and a case which at first looked very ill, ends well. There is still another observation to be made before quitting the subject, namely, that mortification does not always appear as a simple affection. A man may have mortification of his leg, produced by popliteal aneurism, and here we at once say this man’s leg must be instantly cut off; but when we come into the sick apartment, and inquire a little farther, we find that he has an aneurism of the aorta, or a constitution injured by a recent apoplexy, or his limbs are cedematous, or his liver greatly diseased. We instantly change our opinion, and *ay that it is better to let this man die of the disease, than kill imn by the operation. Again, a man has his arm injured • the bone may be sound, and the main artery entire; but a patch of mortification appears on the inflamed interments I he parts below are in a state of suppuration, hmmorrhaae has appeared in the course of the disease; but it has been checked by moderate pressure. In such a case we should sav procure a free issue for the matter, dress the part lightly and support the strength, but do not amputate. Such a case lowever, lequires the most incessant vigilance. The verv existence of a patch of mortification is a most suspicious cir- cumstance. It may, indeed, have been produced bv the snot laving been nearly killed when the injury was inflicted • and in this case if the parts were otherwise healthy, it would o-ive ess alarm. Where, however, the skin is undermined^v When °ne or more arteries have been opened 3 UppUratlon’ or’ as is erroneously said, by ulceration, and262 erythematic inflammation affects the skin, there is seldom much ground for hesitation. A small extent of mortification, with a broken bone or lacerated artery, whether suppuration have, or have not, had time to take place, in some of the neigh- bouring parts, will also form a case for operation. CHAP. IV. OF SUPPURATION. SECTION FIRST. Suppuration, I would define, to be that state of a part in which it secretes pus without any immediate process for heal- ing, or formation of granulations. So long, then, as the simple act of suppuration continues, no wound or inflamed part can ever heal, as it is an act of diseased secretion,—an act whereby the surface forms a new fluid, and nothing else. It has often been confounded with ulceration, or ulceration with it; but the two processes are very different, that of the latter being more complex, and involving the formation of granulations or organized matter, leading to the healing or filling up of an wound or a sore. Pus is an appellation given to the secretion, derived both from the Greek language and doctrine, importing that it was considered as the result of putrifaction. In English, it is called matter, from the Latin verb maturare, on the idea that it was an indication of ripeness in the abscess. It is a fluid of a white or yellowish colour, and in thickness nearly like cream, which is found to separate into two parts, one consist- ing of globular, another of transparent and almost colourless fluid. These globules, however, are not formed, and do not appear, till a little after the secretion has been effected; for at first the fluid is transparent like jelly, and it is not till 15 minutes after secretion that globules can be detected by the263 microscope. They are formed faster if exposed to the air, than if that be excluded. Mucous secretions may resemble pus in colour, but differ in containing small flakes, but no globules. A solution of muriate of ammonia thickens, or as it has been said, coagulates pus, but does not inspissate mucous, or muco-purulent fluid. Chemists have analyzed pus, and given an account of its component parts, and to them this belongs, for as yet little practical utility has resulted from their labours. I therefore forbear entering farther into this detail. I may merely mention, that if we mix pus with boiling water, it becomes coagulated into little portions, like milk curdled in a posset. It we stir this mixture, we form a milky or yellowish fluid, which, on being left to rest, soon separates, a white magma falling to. the bottom. If, on the other hand, we pour boiling water on that mixture of pus and mucus expectorated in disease of the windpipe, we find that it consists of two parts, one more ropy and paler, almost like the mucus of the nose, another whiter or yellow, but floccu- lent, or in masses, which are involved in the other kind. This always sinks to the bottom unless kept up by froth. If the expectoration be shaken in water, it appears in nodules. Too much importance has, however, been attached to a criterion, whereby pus could be distinguished from morbid mucus, for we ought rather to look to the symptoms of the complaint. 1 he secretion from every surface is not exactly the same, and the discharge is often very different even to the eye. In some, it is of a uniform cream-like appearance, and possessed, when warm, of a peculiar smell. It is then called laudable pus. It has ripened in a praiseworthy manner. In others, it is curdy and unequal in its consistence, or viscid and ropy, or thin and almost serous. It is evident that these fluids, although furnished by suppurating or secreting surfaces, are not, properly speaking, pus, or the secretion yielded in the suppuration of a part otherwise healthy. Pus is formed more speedily by acting on some textures than on others. If a mucous membrane be excited strongly, pus is formed within five hours, and even in so short a space as half an hour, a few globules have been detected in the secretion. The skin doesnot form pus till 20 hours after the excitement, and other textures may require somewhat longer. We have seen then, in general, what suppuration is, and also the character of the fluid secreted, but we must attend a little more closely to the nature of the process. If we excite in a slight degree a mucous membrane, the discharge is increased without being perceptibly altered in its quality. If we carry the excitement farther, and continue it longer, the secretion is altered, and converted, either into muco- purulent matter or into pus. Were we then to confine our attention to this fact alone, we should say that pus was an unnatural secretion from a mucous membrane, and would pro- ceed to ascertain, if we could, how a high excitation of the part should so much change the qualities of the secretion. Yet, even in this limited view of the subject, we should find it difficult to afford an explanation, and must for the present remain satisfied w'ith a knowledge of the fact. But in this o state of speculative ignorance, I feel confident in the assertion, which I make from practical observation, that this secretion may be produced either by stimuli acting directly on the secreting surface, or by acting on the origin of the nerves which supply that surface. An excitement of the origin of those nerves which supply the trachea may produce secretion from its surface just as readily as the direct application of causes productive of bronchitic inflammation. I have formerly noticed a similar agency in the production of inflammation. Farther observation will extend our view of suppuration, for we next find that serous membranes, if irritated slightly throw out an increased quantity of serum, or if more power- fully excited they inflame, and if they do not adhere, secrete pus. Next we find that, if the cuticle be removed by means of a blister, the skin secretes first serum and then pus. If we strongly excite the cellular substance, the vessels which formerly secreted interstitial fluid, or sebaceous matter, will come to secrete either an increased quantity of serum con- taining also some lymph, or pus, according to the extent of the excitation. From certain local irritations then, we may have the leg swollen and rendered tense by a kind of serous effu-265 sion or species of oedema, or we may have pus diffused among die cells, and the skin may come to be detached from the parts below. In all these different views which we have taken, it would appear that pus is formed by an alteration in the action of vessels that naturally secrete, and is yielded by surfaces originally secreting. But the most frequent example we perhaps have of the formation of pus is afforded by parts m a great measure new, and which are formed in consequence of inflammation. When a phlegmon for instance appears we have, as we have already seen, a growth or new organiza- tion of the part, dependant on, and connected with the inflammatory action. We have farther seen that the inflam- mation may early abate, and the newly formed substance which was produced by it may be completely absorbed, and the part restored to a state of health. But on the other hand, we also know that the solid matter of this inflammatory tumour, may become gradually absorbed, and its place be sup- plied by pus, so that at last the solid tumour is converted into a bag of matter known under the name of an abscess. This is a state very different from a secretion of pus by a mucous membrane; here there is a destruction of substance, there there was none It is likewise different from the other exara- p es which we have given of purulent secretion, in as much as a huge and unnatural cavity is formed. How does this take place ? The answer will easily be made, that it is by absorp- tmn But still we are left with some other questions to decide e know that this phlegmon like the cellular substance in w mil it was formed, possessed two sets of arteries; one secret mg organized particles which formed the solid texture, the other yielding an interstitial fluid. Do the vessels ^.ich onned solid texture continue to do so, but not so fast as it is • SOI bed, whilst the interstitial vessels form pus, or do oth sets of vessels assume the purulent action ? It may „ot th_Tery,Cf?.t0,llec,lle by actual experiment this point, but At ,PUl 'a. ' 1'"V 1S’ tllat 1,01,1 sets of vessels form this secretion me 01 more parts ot the tumour the solid particles tnk but by pusabTbsmlrC T rePlaCed, by°therS0iid Particles y I A small cavity comes thus to be formed, filled266 with this secretion. The vessels whicli formerly furnished the solid texture of the inflamed tumour, having their action thus changed, the tumour itself must come gradually to con- sist of a fluid, and not of a solid. Whilst the vessels of the suppurating surface are secreting pus, it is usual for those in the vicinity of the inflamed texture to secrete more interstitial fluid than formerly, in consequence of which a slight degree of oedema often attends this process, and the neighbouring skin pits on pressure. The purulent change goes on more rapidly towards the surface than in any other direction, and therefore before the whole of the sides and of the base of the tumour have been absorbed, we find that the covering in front has become very thin, and presently an opening is effected, by which the pus is discharged. It will be proper to attend to the changes which precede this opening. The skin which at first did not appear to be inflamed, soon becomes so, and exhibits all the characters of the inflammatory action, parti- cularly heat and redness. Judging then, in this instance, from what we see externally, we would say that the suppurative process was preceded by the inflammatory, that as suppura- tion advanced so did inflammation go before it, and be led essentially to connect these as cause and effect. But may not inflammation be an effect as readily as a cause of sup- puration ? As inflammation may be considered as an exciting cause of suppuration, so may suppuration in its turn become the cause of inflammation in the neighbouring parts, either by its influence on the action of these parts, or by distention, or pain, in which case it has nothing peculiar in its agency. Parts formerly inflamed, or scarcely free from the inflammatory action, may become again inflamed; or those previously sound may become inflamed, as the skin over a gland. The cha- racters of the suppurative action, or its phenomena, or its effects, may be divided into the local and the constitutional. The local, consist of a sensation of heat, and generally of ful- ness and throbbing. The surface affected, secretes pus, and the substance in the immediate vicinity is more vascular. If a thread be inserted as a seton between the layers of the web of a frog’s foot, its boundary is marked by redness, but. 267 the tract of the thread itself is ash coloured. Not a particle ol pus is discovered within the vessels by the microscope, they only contain blood, whilst the pus is formed at their orifices. No granulations are formed during pure suppuration, and the parts either remain stationary, or are absorbed. This gives rise to a division of the suppurative action, practically, into two classes—the stationary and the progressive. In the first, whether the secretion be furnished by a mucous membrane, °r the new organization in a phlegmon, no farther absorp- tion takes place. In the latter, layer after layer is absorbed, and usually this is preceded by a line of inflammation. From the circumstance of suppuration being in most instances pre- ceded by inflammation, Mr. Hunter considered it as a pecu- liar species of that action, and called it the suppurative inflammation. It is however quite a new and distinct action. V lien suppuration commences, inflammation ceases in that particular spot. The spot does not indeed return into a state o lealth, but assumes another action distinct both from that of health and inflammation. But, because inflammation is an exciting cause of suppuration, we are no more entitled to consider suppuration a modification of that exciting cause, han we are to consider inflammation as a modification of boiling water, because it may be produced by that agent, n animation is one action, suppuration is another, each preserving its peculiar and distinct characters. SECTION SECOND. The constitutional symptoms vary in d according t ti e nature of the part, and the extent of the action. But Whatever thetr degree may be, they are, unless mixed up with circumstances accidental, always the same in kind. I„slight cases suppuration is marked by irregular chills, alternated with heat, accompanied with frequency of pulse, and followed by more or ess perspiration. When ,mpor[ant «> purate, or when the action is extensive, these constitutional aL„Pda”tS m°re a,Ul m°re ProlonSc<l, and the “r aid i reCe,VeS ?“ "ame °f 'leCtic- In ove>-y case, n eveiy degree, the disease is one and the268 same. It is called hectic from its continuance, or becoming in a manner habitual. We might with more propriety call it the suppurative fever, but little good comes from changing established appellations. Pain, irritation, and ether conco- mitant circumstances not essential to the case, may modify the constitutional effects. In a phlegmon in the cellular sub- stance, when abscess forms, the commencement of suppura- tion is marked by slight chills or irregular shiverings. The palms of the hands and the soles of the feet become in the evening a little hotter, the pulse is perhaps slightly accelerated, and towards morning a gentle perspiration appears. These symptoms, however, are sometimes so trifling, as scarcely to merit attention. In deeper and extensive suppurations, they are, however, better marked, and the irregular chills alone are sufficient to indicate that matter is forming. Few sur- geons, however, give the name of hectic to this state, but reserve it, without any very good reason, for a later period, and perhaps a more confirmed degree of the disease. Hectic has been denominated a remittent fever. The exacerbation commences in the afternoon; it is often, but by no means universally, preceded by a cold fit. Whether it be or be not, marks of increasing excitement of the sympathetic nerve appear, for the heat becomes every where increased. The spinal nerves supplying the hands and feet, and the fifth paii, particularly its second branch, are influenced, for the palms of the hands and soles of the feet are both parched and hot, the cheeks become flushed and hot. The pulse, which, even during the remission, was preternatuially quick, becomes accelerated, sometimes to 120 or upwards in the minute. Along with this increase of fever, the patient generally becomes more lively, and continues so till towards night, when disturbed sleep comes on. In the morning, but not at any certain hour, perspiration takes place, at first slight, but in the progress of the disease it becomes profuse. The pulse gradually abates, the sleep becomes a little more tran- quil, and we find, upon awakening, that the pulse, though not natural, is slower, and the heat has abated. The face is pale, the features, if no oedema have taken place, are more5 produces inflammation, and kills, if it be not 26y contracted, and the spirits are not so good. In most instances, the bowels, like the skin, secrete excessively, and diarrhoea takes place. The thirst during this complaint is generally increased, the tongue becomes redder than usual, the appetite in general, but not always, is impaired, the eye has a clear expression, and the sense of smell is sometimes rendered more acute. But one of the most prominent attendants on this state ot disease, is the great and increasing emaciation, which, however much it may be aided by the perspiration and lanhoea, is strictly independent of these discharges, which have been called colliquative. If we look to this disease with a view to find out its discriminating characters, we would say iat it consisted in a remittent fever, attended with great emaciation, and each paroxysm ending in profuse perspira- tions T0,S0‘0g,S'S glVe us verf Iittle useful aid by their defini- unexnected “mmatl0n of the comPlai"t may be sudden and is by com ’ yf SpeC'eS °f faintinS; but “ore frequently it y ma and its attendant symptoms. The duration is veiy vana e, it may last for many months, or even for years month"0(Ed6 °1 * ^ pr°Ve fatal in less than a early in TSWeIhngs> occur sometimes pretty 2S ”• “ - In some instances, the local symptoms are very obscure • there is no pain, neither are there swelling nor tenderness’ disease seems altogether general, and day after day an • 0uish attack takes place, ending in a drenching perspiration nd the body wastes rapidly. I„ such protracted cases,™ ay be sure that suppuration has taken place, and must dili- g::X77t thad “y ^ mation ■ and If ‘‘n< ^ lndlcatlng the existence of inflame the spoi, and arena"1 POSsMe of no *" /LVe' baS bc6n suPPosed to arise from the absorption It t; r„atTwhich we a,e toid * a —c animal quickl “ iT’ Wood-Vcsse,s' il destroys the for example if . °ducecl lnto a cavity> the abdominal,270 absorbed and removed. Insinuated into the cellular sub- stance, it inflames it. Similar experiments made with other animal substances, such as serum or saliva, do not prove fatal. It is evident, however, that we have here no proof that pus is the cause of hectic fever. We find this fever produced when there is little pus to be absorbed, and so, on the other hand, it may be nearly or altogether absent, when there is a good deal. The effect of any local action, if it influence the constitution by sympathy, is to induce a state similar to itself in kind, though not equal in degree. Produce vigorous inflammation in a part, and if the system sympathize, inflammatory fever is the result. Induce gangrenous inflammation, and as the part sinks, so does the system. Excite the suppurative action, and we shall have, exclaims the watchful critic, a universal and systematic suppuration. No ; but we shall have a general disorder, of which secretion forms a very prominent character. The constitutional marks of commencing suppuration are chills, succeeded by irregular glows of heat, a new species of fever, with more or less perspiration. Establish in sensible parts, 'or extensively in any part, suppuration, and these constitutional marks proceed to a greater degree, and last longer. If we ask wliat the suppurative action is, we cannot be told more than the fact, that the vessels form no longer the proper organic particles peculiar to the textuie of the part, and its natural interstitial fluid, but yield a new secre- tion in their place. This peculiar, and highly unnatural state of the part, may readily be supposed to act on the system. That it does so is a matter of fact, whatever difficulty we may find in the explanation of it. We take hold of the fact, and must account for it in the best way we can. I would pre- mise, that many local actions may excite the system, or act on it, although not attended with much sensation or pain; and even in the case of inflammation, the attendant fever is not proportioned exactly to the degree of local sensibility. We cannot therefore deny that the suppurative action, merely because it is not accompanied with much pain, and in certain cases with none, is capable of influencing the system, and producing a general disorder, whether we call that hectic271 lever, or give it any other name. It is well known to the pathologist, that irritation, or peculiar conditions of the extremities of the nerves, although not attended with local sensation, may influence the origin of the nerves, causing a train ol sympathies, and a more extended disorder of the system. I can afford no other explanation of the effect of suppuration, in exciting hectic fever or constitutional disorder; but I would attempt farther to account for the peculiar ten- dency to perspiration, often to oedema or dropsy, and the very marked emaciation which attends the complaint, even although t e appetite be not lost, by saying, that the general formative action of the system is deranged or impaired by sympathy with the local one, in which the action is totally changed. I would also observe, that this universal disorder seems to be communicated and kept up by the influence of the nervous system which is acted on by the state of the nerves of the affected part; and from this influence being exerted some- nmes more on one part than another of the medulla spinalis, Z fury oeZ7 y, ent effeCtS produ“d- Sometimes the y of he disorder is spent on the bowels, and inveterate diarrhoea takes place. Then thi« inveterate \ nen t,lls ceases, and couo-h, although it did not formerly exist, comeson or th* ; • * , S trartod nr tli« of ’ 1 *le joints become con- traded, or the skin pours out perspiration, or the head suffers or purulent secretion suddenly takes place in other pa ts or’ from the surface of the rectum or other bowels. witt'r r,hatterifferent fr0m hectic’ but confounded r :rcir “r,,J 1 at first, a g’o7LIof7T P ^ *" “ bes!<H although this feeling may 7eaTdT ^ T”1 ^ C°mf°rt? greater than in hectic the t ‘ ‘e I* 18 genen% distinct, and theretl the less chills. When Z L F*8?"1*011’ and seIdo™ irregular *• ge„erj^^^;“S ** ^ctic, bter> and the emaciation more, andthe perspiration excessive. There may be no local uneasi- ness, but it is apt to arise, when there is an excited state of the medulla spinalis or oblongata. To these may be added inflammatory fever, and the effect of the compound is tremen- dous, and generally proves fatal in a few days, often in 48 hours. It is most frequently exhibited as the consequence of inflammation supervening on the opening of a chronic abscess. In such cases, air sometimes is discharged from the aperture, and it is supposed that all the evil arises from this, which was imagined to be admitted from without. But it is a secretion from the diseased surface, and affords a strong proof of the truth of the view I have taken of the influence of local action on the system; for in a few hours, I have known the vessels of the whole body secrete air, and universal emphysema has taken place, accompanied with most rapid pulse, and ending, after a few hours, in death. SECTION THIRD. Suppuration is an action over which we have very little control. We have seen that inflammation is to be con- sidered as an exciting cause, and that the one action succeeds to the other. The transition is effected by a process of nature which we cannot explain, for as yet we know nothing beyond the fact. If we let the part alone, the process will go to com- pletion. There are only two questions which can therefore be proposed to us. Have we it in our power to accelerate the process of transition, and the rapidity of suppuration ? And can we relieve the sensations of the patients, or lessen the constitutional effects when these are severe ? We have, per- haps, less in our power in accomplishing these objects than many suppose; but still we are able to do somewhat. The application of a simple stimulus, within a limited degree, to a part, will tend to increase the action of that part, whatever it may be. Heat applied to an inflamed part, unless it greatly relieve the sense of pain, increases the inflammation. Applied to a suppurating part, it may be expected therefore to increase the suppurative action, but some circumstances must be attended to, before we can form a proper estimate ol27 3 the real effect. Heat may promote suppuration, if it do not lemove inflammation. If applied prematurely, or in too great a degree, it gives pain, and does harm. On the other hand, if the process be going on very slowly, heat may accelerate it. In the first case, it is positively hurtful; in the second actually eneficial 01 efficient. There is a third case, however, where t le action is going on briskly, and in such cases it may be much doubted how far heat can accelerate the action. A high C eg*’ee of lt} in a11 probability, would be detrimental. Tepid applications, however, may at first hasten the termination of inflammation, and afterwards keep the part easier, than if nothing were applied. They do not interfere with the pro- cess going on, but allow it to follow its course, whilst they al ay irritation and relieve the patient. They may soothe and lelieve the attendant effects, without directly hastening the process, at least otherwise than by keeping off irritation, an preventing a renewal of inflammation, which might retard it; they are, therefore, excellent remedies, although they do not act exactly in the way we may suppose. The form most commonly employed is that of a bread and milk poultice, boiled so as to acquire considerable thickness and tenacity, and after wards mixed with a little olive oil or fresh butter. These poul- tices should be just so large as to cover the part, and ought to be removed before they become dry. Whatever their tem- perature may have originally been, they very soon acquire that of the part, and therefore, in changing them, we attend rather to their dryness than to their coldness. They can be considered, with the exception of a few minutes -at first as merely moist applications possessing the temperature of ’the pait. n order to prevent the loss of heat, some envelope the pait in flannel, others, to prevent evaporation, cover it with au 01 cloth. It has also been proposed, at each renewal of t e poultice, to foment the part with warm water, but I do not know that this is very useful. The time required to brino- an abscess forward, and have it burst, varies according to its i uation and extent. Small abscesses in the cellular sub- si^’ lf1aCUt6’ may bui’St within a week’ others more exten- 1 deeper may retluire near a month. It is a good Trule, in general, to allow acute abscesses, seated in the cellular substance, to burst spontaneously: but when the abscess is formed beneath a fascia, or in immediate contact with a bone, or over a joint, or in such a situation as that it might readily burst into a cavity, or in an unfavour- able instead of a favourable way, or where its continuance or increase might be dangerous from pressure, it ought to be opened, as soon as fluctuation can be perceived. There is very little difficulty, when the abscess is subcutaneous, in deciding on the existence of matter; but it is very much the contrary when the muscular fascia is concerned. A slight degree of inflammation, or any tumefaction of the parts beneath this fascia, will render it very tense, giving a feeling of fluctuation. Few cases require more circumspection, on the part of a young practitioner, for, wrere an opening made, even if no bad consequences resulted, he might, although undeservedly, be blamed for his mistake. By examination he may ascer- tain the feeling to be that rather of elasticity than of fluctua- tion. A great part of the limb perhaps is swollen; were this occupied by matter, considerable pressure on one part should make a projection discernible by the hand applied to a more remote portion, or an impulse given at the one spot should produce the feeling of impinging, or of fluctuation at the other. When the fascia is merely distended by a swelling of the parts below, it feels elastic, rebounding on pressure at any particular part, but the circumstances just described do not take place. The swelling also and elastic tension come on more rapidly than in suppuration, and there is usually less redness of the skin. There is another case which may mislead us, namely, where the cellular substance over a fascia, that of the leg for instance, has, after some degree of inflammation, become packed or gorged with serous or lymphatic fluid. The feelino- is much the same as in the former case. The swelling superjacent to the fascia is acted on by it on the one hand, as well as by the distended skin on the other : here also the feeling is that of elasticity rather than of fluctuation; but both in this and in the former case, the practitioner, by pressing alter- nately on two distant points, may imagine that he detects a27 5 rebounding or fluctuation, whereas in reality he only perceives the elasticity of the two individual spots. By pressing and gently squeezing or rubbing a portion of the swelling with his fingers, he clears the cells, takes off the distention, feels the fascia below slack, and is now sensible that no deep-seated suppuration exists. In parts more circumscribed and covered with a fascia, or contained in a capsule, we must be equally cii cumspect. When matter is deeply seated in an extremity, its formation, if dependant on acute suppuration, is always preceded by deep-seated and very considerable if not severe pain. It is attended generally by irregular shiverings, and followed by a doughy feel of the integuments, sometimes by cutaneous redness. Acute suppuration in glands bound down by a fascia, generally excites inflammation in that fascia, suc- ceeded by slight oedema of the cellular substance, with or without redness of the skin. In acute cases the disease advances so rapidly outwards there can be no doubt; it is only in the slower cases where there is a matting or confusion of the parts, as in some affections of the female breast, that there can be any hesitation. In such cases, if there should be very little feeling locally of matter, we may be sure of its presence if the patient be affected with a remittent fever. In every instance where matter is contained below a fascia, we can hard y be too prompt in letting it out. When an abscess has burst or been opened, it is generally proper, if it be of moderate size, merely to continue the application of a poul- tice. ns is generally the best defence until the hardened base and margin, commonly called the stool of the abscess be absorbed, alter which the part may be dressed with simple ointment, and gently supported with a roller. If, however the heat and moisture of the poultice be fretting the skin, <o at it either is covered with a crop of pimples, or the orifice e en arging too much, simple dressings should be imme- late y employed. In larger abscesses the poultice should ei e veiy early exchanged for a compress of soft cloth ep on wnh a roller, so as to support the parts, a bit of Ca _1S thmly spread with simple ointment beino- previous! aPP"ed t0 <»*r aPerture, o, if the poultice be clbZt2?0 si roller should be applied over it with some degree of firm- ness. An abscess does not heal, that is, become obliterated, by the process of adhesion, or by the one surface coming at once, and uniformly to unite to the other ; but it is rather by a process of ulceration, which we are soon to consider, that is circle after circle in succession, proceeding from the circum- ference to the centre, granulates, and thus ultimately the cavity is obliterated. The inflamed texture, that is the sub- stance of an inflammatory tumour, appears either incapable of directly ulcerating, that is granulating, or assumes this action rarely. It takes on the suppurative action, which proceeds steadily till it approach to, or arrive at the sound, that is the uninflamed texture, and then the ulcerative action may take place, and generally does so. The new formed substance of an inflammatory tumour rarely ulcerates, but it suppurates ; and wei’e the whole of a limb painfully inflamed, or converted into one large phlegmon, we should have a corresponding destruction by suppuration, or one enormous abscess. An abscess heals in a covered way in the same manner that an open ulcer does, only it does not require the process of cicatrization, excepting at its orifice. Some abscesses form very slowly after evident inflammation ; and these it has been proposed to hurry on by stimulating appli- cations, such as roasted onions, figs, poultices made with solution of salt, plasters containing resinous substances, repeated blisters, &c. Where there are still some obscure marks of inflammation, hot and stimulating poultices or plasters may accelerate somewhat the process : but, when no inflammation exists, and still more so where none has decidedly existed, we must either leave the case altogether to time, or to repeated blisters. The latter are seldom necessary; the former is generally sufficient. Poultices are more apt to fret, or excoriate the surface, than to hasten suppuration, and at least in every instance, where they have such effect, should be abstained from. It is generally proper, as soon as matter is fully formed, to open such abscesses, both with a view of saving time, and likewise to prevent so much destruction of skin, as would take place if left to the slow process of absorp-T/7 tion. This is particularly an object where we wish to avoid an unseemly scar, as on the face or about the throat and neck, he aperture should be very small, and made with a narrow ancet, or sharp pointed narrow bistoury. The part, if the abscess be small, may then be dressed with simple ointment: if arger, a compress and roller lightly applied should be used after t ie matter has been gently pressed out. Bad consequences seldom follow the opening of abscesses which have been pre- cecec even by slight inflammation, although chronic, and t" "^eie they are consequent to acute inflamma- ion. here are, however, collections of matter, which form 1 mut any appeaiance of previous inflammation, so that iey may e considered rather as constituting a species of encystec tumour, than as deserving the appellation usually bestowed upon them of chronic abscesses!* These cysts or f" “ ,°nS mC1'eaSe Sl°Wly’ a,’d often’ Particularly below a tascia, to an immense extent. When the skin does begin ffradualb ?™‘rude’ after a laPse of time, at any one point, it f ‘ y inflames, and an opening at last is formed, as in the ta d - abscess already noticed. The inflammation, however, b w “I °‘ °Pening’ " aIt°gethe‘' «***» to the cyst, but whenever the aperture takes place in the cyst, its surface m ™st‘"stances, has the inflammatory action rapidly spread over tt, and the most dreadful constitutional mischief resX 1 he same consequences may be expected if an artificial E “d Vhe 'V0Und be all0Wed Mame! from Case ln SUC ' Cysts alone: if we draw oft' water fiom the abdomen of a debilitated dropsical patient and be Ot very careful to procure adhesion/ the orifice inflames nflammation is communicated to the peritonaeum and the patient tn a few hours is moribund. The fata^n" ofT-tuTt rinSS be“ at“'ibuted tbe admission aL277 hhave ^ than a ease related bTS£ this ,'i’° umbar abscess, which bears so decidedly unon fot thTplte oflht fm0StCa)1 il an exPertment^made a lumbar abscess so as m 7''°”' 7“ apPlied '° cess, so as to form an eschar. This eschar or278 dead substance, was then pierced, so as to evacuate the matter. Every thing went on well, till the eschar began to separate, then high constitutional irritation took place, and the patient rapidly sunk. Here we see no immediate injury produced by the evacuation of the matter, or the supposed insinuation of air; but the moment that the eschar begins to separate, and the action of the living line of separation comes to spread to the cavity, the evil takes place. The rule then, in opening all chronic collections of matter, whether we call them chronic abscesses, or encysted tumours, is to evacuate the matter by a small orifice, which we are to close immediately, and preserve its sides in continued contact by adhesive plaster, and a sup- porting bandage. An oblique is perhaps preferable to a direct puncture, in as much as it may render adhesion more certain. When the matter reaccumulates it must again be let out; and after this has been done once or twice, the cyst is not only contracted to a much smaller boundary, but from observation I can say, is also less susceptible of injury even when the aperture is left unclosed. This can only be accounted for, by supposing that certain changes have taken place in the action of the cyst itself, bringing it more nearly but slowly to a resemblance of an acute abscess. After this account of the local treatment of abscesses, I must next consider the management of the constitution. When an acute abscess is forming, it has been proposed by some to give invigorating diet and cordials, or to prescribe bark, ammonia, See. Others recommend mild diaphoretics, such as saline draughts. Where the strength has been much dimin- ished, suitable nourishment undoubtedly must be given, and if the debility be great, even wine may be requisite; but with the exception of such cases which occur but in a small propor- tion, it is better to avoid cordials altogether, and to prescribe a diet sufficient to support the strength, without exciting the system. As to medicine, I know of none that can have much influence, and would not, therefore, in ordinary cases, recom- mend any, except in so far as accidental symptoms might require it. There are more extreme cases, which may require our279 ‘ interference. The simplest of these, is that in which the discharge is so profuse as to exhaust the patient. It may be called colliquative; but it rarely exists without some other combination, such as fever or irritation. In so far as it does operate, we can only obviate the effect by suitable nourish- ment, and, if necessary, by such remedies as increase appetite, anc promote digestion, at the same time, that we employ sue 1 oca treatment as may lessen the discharge. A much more requent, as well as a more formidable consequence, is hectic fever. I know of no direct or specific remedy against this, no mean of changing (I fear I may say of abating) the general action. So long as local inflammation exists in a pleurisy, so long must general inflammatory action continue We may diminish its degree, but we cannot alter its nature. VVe may lessen the absolute strength, without affecting the relative activity. So long as suppurative action continues, lectic fever will also continue. The system may vary, accord- ing to circumstances, in strength or weakness, but still it is a lec ic system. If the suppuration have produced hectic r’DO speci.fic ”medy>-"o mean whatever, can remove that otherwise than by removing the exciting cause. We may by arn&ial interference kill our patient, or we may keep him a little longer alive; but he dies, or he lives as a hectic patient V e must either cure the local disease, or remove the dis- easet pait. I shall not, therefore, enumerate the remedies vluch have been idly proposed for overcoming hectic fever ten the local disease cannot be cured, and is so situated that the part can be removed, this ought to he done; and I have every reason to suppose that I have seen obstinate sinuses in he breast, where laying these open has not produced a cure, . U W lere removd °f the breast might have saved life. For m such severe cases, either the patient is worn out by hectic p.oduced by the breast alone, or new parts, such as the uterus ecome i lseased, and sink her faster. As to the general treat propos deCTCl ^ are °"ly tW° P'anS WWch C™ be "Anally dien to nrom 7 13 '° S"PP°rt the stren«th by nourishing 5 , P note digestion, and improve, so far as we can thp Gla C°nStltutlon by salubrious air, and tonics which are280 not of a stimulating nature. Ihe other, is to endeavour to OcSen, 01 palliate particular parts of the action, by keeping t e body, for example, cool, or even sponging the surface with cold water, when the skin is dry and hot. During the sweating stage we cannot carry this plan to the same extent, but still we keep the patient as cool as can be done without producing chilness. By this plan conjoined, (if the situation of the pait will admit of it,) with local remedies, we may support the strength until nature effect a cure of the diseased pait, and then the hectic subsides as a matter of course. If this cannot be effected, still the simple plan proposed will protiact existence. Stimulants are very suspicious in their effects, and they are as likely to increase the fever as to aug- ment the strength. With regard to the local treatment, it can only consist in the application of moderate and uniform ptesstue, when necessary; in procuring by proper openings, a fi ee evacuation of matter, when that can promote recovery; in laying open sinuses, or sometimes injecting stimulating fluids, or in deeper parts which we dare not, or cannot touch, by forming an external issue. There is another state which I have noticed as attendant on suppuration, namely that of irritation. I can only with regard to it say, that the same general plan must be pursued; but tonics conjoined with anodynes, are more serviceable here than in hectic, and the case altogether is somewhat more favourable. When the two states, however, are combined, the prognosis is more unfavour- able, unless we find that anodynes readily subdue the irritation. There is another case which I have also noticed, namely, a combination of one, or both of these disorders, with the i uflammatoi y action, or a modification of inflammatory^ fever by the secretory action of the local organ. This is most frequently met with in consequence of opening chronic abscesses or encysted tumours, and may prove fatal even in a few hours. It is better, by caution in opening such tumours, to prevent this dreadful disorder, than to be placed under the necessity of meeting with it. I know of no treatment that is likely to control it. Bloodletting, unless at the very com- mencement of the attack, is out of the question; and even281 then its safety is doubtful. Opiates, with or without diaphore- tics, according to the state of the surface, may be tried; but in severe cases we as yet know of no remedy. When recovery does take place, it seems to be rather owing to the compara- tive mildness of the attack, than to any efficient bar we have been able to put in the way of the ruin of the constitution. Before quitting this subject I must notice a particular form undei which we may require to treat a suppurating part, namely, that in which a sinus or fistula discharges the matter, lhis sinus, or canal, has very improperly been termed a sinous ulcer; it is merely a suppurating surface; it is both a secreting surface and an excretory duct. The sinus may be the only secreting surface, or there may, at its farther extremity, be a chamber or abscess of greater or smaller size. When the surface of this duct was thick and hard, it was called a fistula, lhat the orifice may be callous, and that even the whole extent ot the sinus may be a little thicker in its secreting sur- lace in one instance than in another is admissible; bu” that the whole tract becomes hard or callous, is altogether fanciful, and the old distinction therefore between sinus and fistula may e given up. The only way of curing this disease is by inducing the ulcerative process, in which granulations form or I do not believe it to be possible to effect adhesion by exciting inflammation of the surface. The means of causing ulceration as a step towards healing are various, and the indi- vidual one to be chosen must depend a good deal on the situa- tion of the disease. They consist in applying uniform and considerable pressure along the whole tract of the sinus, so as to keep its opposite surfaces steadily and firmly in contact with one another, at the same time that considerable excite- ment is given by the pressure; or by conjoining this with the injection of stimulating liquids, such as port wine, or by the introduction, for a time, of a seton, or by laying the sinus or sinuses open, and filling the wound from the bottom with lint. iei'e ls a species of gangrenous suppuration which may ° °w lom inJury> or arise from constitutional states. I ]lave a ieady noticed, that one part may be mortified or slomdiimr an anot ler suppurating, and a third in a state of gangren-c28c2 s inflammation. Ihe matter is never confined in a sac like an abscess, and must be freely discharged, and the treatment proper m gangrenous inflammation pursued. A diffused suppuration is often of this nature. It does not form an abscess, but infiltrates itself in the cells, which soon die, and form a gray or ash-coloured slough, as we see in furunculus, or large portions may die, and be drawn out with forceps. A peculiar affection, often of the suppurative nature, and allied to this condition just noticed, arises from wounds or punctures received in dissection. The effects are far from being always the same, as the nature of the virus differs, and also the wound. The mere application of putrid animal matter can inflame and produce a very painful sore of a bad kind causing also fever; but generally the fluid applied to the scratch is a secretion either morbid or putrid. Putrid serum injected into the cellular substance produces inflammation, death of the texture, and often a fatal irritation of the whole system. 1 us yielded by gangrenous parts, or morbid mucus, or inter- stitial fluid in certain cases of an obscure nature, acting on a Puncture or scratch will inflame that, and cause a dull Erysi- pelatous inflammation, ending in vesication, filled sometimes with a clear or reddish, at other times with an albuminous fluid. Ihe sore is long of healing, but no extensive evil follows. In other cases most painful inflammation often of the gangrenous kind comes on, and the whole hand swells greatly; the fingers are bent, and the wrist and forearm par- ticipate in the swelling and pain. Matter forms under the fascia, and diffuses itself, and in some places even livid spots or mortified portions may be seen. The constitution is greatly affected, there is foul tongue, hot skin, frequent pulse, depression of strength, and sometimes fatal exhaustion. Poultices and free openings are the most useful remedies, whilst we evacuate feculent matter, and support the strength with light nourishment. When matter forms to a greater extent, or at a distance from the hand, as for instance about the shoulder or side, it is never confined as in an abscess, but is either partly diffused, like an oedema among the cells of the skin, and the rest contained under the detached skin, or it283 extends under the fascia, and spreads rapidly. It must be let out instantly, a compress lightly applied, and the strength supported. Another form of this is less apt to end in exten- sive suppuration. It begins, very soon after the puncture, with a febrile attack, headach and nausea, followed by most acute pain in the armpit, region of the clavicle or pectoral muscle and shoulder. The parts are extremely tender to the touch, swelled, generally tense, but sometimes doughy and the swelling usually pits on pressure. Erysipelatous redness is extended down the thorax, whilst the whole extremity swells more or less, and the punctured part vesicates. The swelling here is uniform, and no matter is evacuated by incision, for the fluid is interstitial, as we see in those swellings I have described as following puncture and irritation by other causes. Purulent matter may at last form in different parts, but the patient seldom lives long enough for that. Bleeding and other remedies have generally failed; and when recovery has taken place, it seems to have been more owing to nature than to art. Still we must endeavour to palliate symptoms, for instance by applying leeches instantly to the swollen part, and then either cold water, or tepid fomentations as the patient feels most useful. Gentle purges and saline julap may be given as slight assistants, and if any indication justify us, we may cut for matter and apply a poultice. We give nourish- ment and quinine. CHAP. V. OF ULCERATION. In common language, ulcer and sore, the former of Greek the latter of Saxon derivation, are used as synonimes. The term ulcer is to be traced to the Greek verb, signifying to diaw, because it was imagined that the humours were drawn or attracted to the ulcerated part. Hence the appellation of drawing salve’ given to stimulating ointments which Dromon* purulent discharge. In this view, an ulcer is merely a puratmg surface. But leaving the old English word ‘sore’ tobe explained by the authority of lexicographers, and to com- prehend, if they think proper, every purulent surface, I must claim a more strict limitation of the term ulceration. We have seen in what suppuration consists, and that though it may be productive of destruction, yet it can in no way contribute to the renewal of the part. It is a simple process, merely that of purulent secretion. Ulceration is a more complex action. It consists of the formation of organic particles or granula- tions, and also of the secretion of pus. When there are no granulations, perfect or imperfect, healthy or the contrary, ormed, there can be no ulceration. Whatever the action be, suppurative, or any thing else, the part cannot be called an ulcer. When a suppurating part begins to heal, those vessels which were originally destined to supply the waste of the solid texture of the part, resume their action, in so far as to depo- rt6 not a fluid, but more solid particles called granulations. The vessels which in health formed the interstitial fluid, continue to secrete pus. These two sets of vessels, therefore, in ulceration, each perform a separate office. The granula- tions produced by the ulceration of every texture of the body, are of the same kind, namely, cellular at first. This is even true in the case of an ulcerating bone; but in process of time after these granulations have been successively absorbed and replaced, they come gradually to be furnished in a state more and more resembling the texture to which they ought to belong. Hence, after a lapse of time, if the parts be in a favourable situation, muscle is joined by fibrous, tendon by tendinous, and bone by ossific matter. There is another circumstance to be attended to in the history of granulations, even in cellu- lai texture, namely, that the first crop is more spongy than those which are afterwards deposited. They gradually become more and more compact, so that an ulcerated disc, at first an inch in diameter, shall at last come to be greatly abridged, as is proved by our finding the old skin drawn nearer to the centre. This fact, with which surgeons have long been fami- liar, Mr. Hunter explained by referring it to the contraction of the granulations. That they do contract is certain; but it is not by any muscular action, it is only by their becomingmore compact. When granulations have reached the surface, the process of ulceration gradually ceases, and the cutis is formed. This process, called cicatrization, usually proceeds from the circumference towards the centre; but occasionally little spots become skinned at different parts of the disc or surface, like small islands, gradually enlarging, so that the whole is moi’e rapidly cicatrized. It is the corium which is first formed; then this becomes covered with an epidermis; and last of all, but not in every instance, the rete mucosum is renewed. This renewal, when it takes place, almost invaria- bly proceeds from the circumference towards the centre. The cicatrix at the margin assumes more nearly the appearance of the skin. The cicatrix would, therefore, appear to diminish in size, even although it were not at all lessened. There is, however, an actual contraction or diminution of the cicatrix, by its particles becoming more compact in the same way as the granulations did, and thus the surrounding skin is drawn more towards the centre. This is more remarkably the case, after some species of ulceration than after the more healthy kind; so that the surrounding skin may even become puck- ered, or depressed. Some have imagined that the granula- tions never rose up to a level with the surrounding surface, but that the neighbouring skin, by a wasting of the subjacent cellular substance sunk to a level with the ulcerated surface. That this sinking, does in part take place, in many instances, I am not disposed to deny; but that it is a necessary, far less an exclusive way of effecting a level, I scarcely think it neces- sary to disprove. Mr. Hunter considers ulceration as a species of inflammation, which he calls the ulcerative inflam- mation. If we inquire a little farther as to the character of this inflammation, we find it to be resolved into that of absorp- tion, which he calls pi’ogressive absorption, to distinguish it from interstitial. Several succeeding writers have adopted the same opinion, and given a kind of commentary upon it, doubtless, because they found it more easy to amplify than to investigate. Mr. Hunter describes the character of an ulcer- ating surface to be, that it is made up of little cavities, the edge ol the skin is scolloped, thin, and overhangs the surface.Ihe sore is foul, and the discharge thin; hut, says he, when the ulceiation stops, the edge becomes smooth, regular, a little rounded, and purple, covered with semi-transparent white. It is quite evident, that Mr. Hunter’s description of an ulcer is the description of a state very different from that which I would admit to be ulceration. His ulcerative inflammation is a piocess of destruction rather than of reparation ; granu- lation forms no part of it, and I confess that I can see no essential difference between his ulceration and suppuration. It may, indeed, be said that a distinction may exist, from there being powerful and progressive absorption ; let this be granted, we have still only suppuration, with the addition of progres- sive absorption. It is an evil species of suppuration, but it is not ulceration. Sir Everard Home, on the other hand, describes a granulating surface to be neither more nor less than a bottle-work, the extremities of the vessels blowing granulations. In a healthy ulcer, the surface is covered with granulations, which are closely connected, firm, small in size, and pointed at the top. The colour is florid, with a very slight shade of purple, for they possess abundantly both arteries and veins, through which the blood circulates both freely and actively. The granulations rise to the level of the surrounding parts, or even a very little beyond it. The margins are smooth, soft, and somewhat redder than the neighbouring skin, but have not the unhealthy fiery look of an inflamed part; they rather resemble a new-formed cicatrix, which indeed they soon come to consist of. The surface is bedewed with cream coloured pus. A healthy ulcer is not painful; if there be any sensation, it is one compounded of slight fulness and itch- ing. On exposure to air, however, there may be painful smarting. I have already explained the steps and process of cicatrization, which ought to go on progressively. The ratio, however, is not uniform, being quicker at one time than at another. This is a process of nature tending to resto- ration of a part. It leads to renewal or soundness, and there- fore all we have to do, is to let it alone. We cannot, and need not if we could, hurry on a process which is proceeding28 7 to recovery as rapidly as the powers of the system or of the part can admit. Our interference, therefore, can only be useful in so far as we defend the part from injury, and pre- serve the process from interruption. On this principle, it is sufficient that we have the part kept clean, free from irrita- tion, and every thing that could mechanically injure the gra- nulations. Were the ulcer altogether let alone, it would come, by the exsiccation of the pus, to be covered with a crust, which, in that case, would come to be considered as defensive armour to the part, but so many interruptions or irritations may be thrown in the way of recovery under this sponta- neous dressing, that after all the speculations of the admirers °f nature’ ifc is never willingly resorted to by practical men, unless in the case of small and very superficial sores. The artificial dressing consists chiefly in the application of poul- tices, dry lint, and simple ointment. Poultices are more use- ful for bringing a wound or suppurating surface easily and speedily into a state of ulceration, than in healing an ulcer. Ihe heat and the moisture are apt to bring out small pimples m the neighbouring skin, whilst the application of the poul- tice is otherwise inconvenient. Still, however, a healthy ulcer may very readily heal under the application of poultices, but these are still more useful when the ulcer is attended with irritation. Dry lint forms a very good defence or dressing for an ulcer; and as the edges secrete less pus than the centre^ it is frequently the practice to dress the lips with slips thinly spread with simple ointment, in order to prevent the lint from adhering, and the parts from being injured on its removing. ie dressings must be kept on by a roller, but this cannot be applied with the firmness requisite to keep it immov- •i e, un ess it embrace the whole limb from its extremity to somewhere above the seat of the ulcer. The roller, which s iou ( e of soft materials, must not be wound so tightly as to produce any pain ; it should merely be so firm as to pre- seive perfectly its own place and that of the dressing. Tim U CC* S 0uld be dressed once in the twenty-four hours, when it ought to be washed with tepid water/ This practice "es up°u t ie principle that we have no power of healing a vigor-288 ous or well conditioned ulcer. We know of nothing which lias the positive property of promoting a cure; we know of many tilings which may retard it, and common sense will teach us to avoid these. The only use of a surgeon, if he possess that property, in the management of a healthy ulcer, is to adopt those simple defences which have been pointed out for enabling the natural process to go on. Internal remedies, and particular forms of diet, are alike useless, unless with the same view of removing where they exist, or preventing where they are threatened, those conditions which might act inju- riously on the ulcer. When an ulcer is situated on the leg, it is an important question, whether it require rest for its cure, and very contradictory answers have been given, professedly from the source of experience. All, however, must agree in this, that if the patient walk with such dressing as may easily be displaced, and the ulcer be ruffled, it cannot heal. If the dressing be properly sustained by a well applied roller, and the circulation be active, and the health good, the patient may walk moderately. It has even been supposed, that it was neces- sary, for the support of his general health, that a good deal of exercise should be taken, but this theory must be acted on with much circumspection. From the simple fact, that in a healthy system, an ulcer, if the part be otherwise sound, heals soon and progressively, we should infer, when it does not heal, but, on the contrary, becomes in every respect unhealthy, that either the state of the system, or of some organ, is bad, or the treatment is injurious. The influence of an ulcer on a susceptible habit, on the one hand, in affecting the health or the action of some organs, and on the other, the marked effect of deviation in the action of the remote parts, as, for instance, the viscera, or of a general disorder of the system, on the ulcer, ought at once to make us, even in the most trifling and best conditioned sore, as well as in extensive and unhealthy or intractable sores, most attentive to the general health, to the support and encouragement of those functions and parts of the natural action of the system which are still well performed, and the rectification of those which are not. We thus pre- vent a healthy ulcer from becoming a bad one, and gradually289 convert a bad sore into a good ulcer. The constitutional treatment, then, as it is called, is of as much importance as the local management, and the diet, with the action of the chylopoietic viscera, the salubrity of the air, the abatement of excessive sensibility or susceptibility, the procuring of sleep, and the general invigoration of the system, by moderate exer- cise if possible, and when necessary, by tonics, form points foi attention often more important than the composition of a dressing. In those who are more advanced in life, where the circulation is languid, the skin irritable, or otherwise diffeient from a state of perfect health, or the constitution bad, an ulcer, at present apparently healthy, may lose that character by very slight causes, and it seldom is safe to allow much, sometimes any walking exercise. The health may be pi'omoted by taking exercise in a carriage, or if a dependant posture be not found injurious, on horseback. Even in the healthiest ulcei, and the best constitution, if walking be found to injure the action, it must be refrained from ; some are injured even by sitting with the leg in a dependant position, and in every instance it should be occasionally placed horizontally. When the granulations reach the level of the surrounding skin, cicatrization ought to take place; but this sometimes fails, and the ulcer continues to granulate higher, so as to form what is called fungus. This may occupy the whole sur- face, or only a part of the ulcer. The granulations are more indistinct, and more flabby than those of a healthy ulcer, and although they sometimes, yet they seldom, cicatrize till they be reduced to the proper level. We may call this an over- acting, a hypergranulating, or a fungous ulcer, as we please. If we call it an overacting ulcer, we must not be misled so fai as to suppose that the luxuriance of granulations is a sign of vigour, or a high degree of what may be called the healthy action of an ulcer. It is, on the contrary, a mark of weak- ness or want of energetic action. The granulations are always flabby, and often so indistinct, as to resemble a polypus. ie mass can scarcely be said to consist of granulations, but iat iei of a pale gelatinous substance, yet so far vascular, as to ) eed when abraded. It is more entitled to the appellationot an indolent ulcer than many which receive it; for it is still truly an ulcer, that is, a granulating sore, whilst it exhibits no healthy energy; and if the fanciful language of Mr. Hunter were to be followed out, I would say it accumulates granula- tions from mere laziness, disliking the trouble of absorbing them regularly, and of forming skin. It would be of more consequence to discover the exciting cause, than to invent a name for this state. Some deep-seated irritation, or an excite- ment of the neighbouring parts, but not to a degree sufficient to change or destroy the granulating action, is a frequent, but not the only cause. Hence a diseased bone, or the pre- sence of an extraneous substance, will produce fungus. Fun- gus often appears at the orifice of a sinus, but in such cases, the bone, tendon, or other subjacent parts, are greatly diseased. Fungus may also be produced by slighter causes, which we cannot always detect; but still it is to be considered as a symptom either of the presence of some injurious irrita- tion, or the want of that sympathy with the neighbouring sur- face which is necessary to pi’oduce cicatrization. When it arises from mechanical or deep-seated irritation, it can only be cured by the removal of that irritation; in all other cases, we may succeed by pressure and gentle stimulants. A roller should be applied, after the ulcer has been dressed, along the whole limb, or strips of adhesive plaster may be applied around the limb at the seat of the ulcer, but not without the assistance of the roller. We may also, if necessary, bathe the part daily with a solution of sulphate of copper, in the pro- portion of two grains of the salt to an ounce of -water, or of such a strength as not to smart much. A solution of the nitrate of silver of the same sti'engtli is also a useful wash. But one of the most frequent, and most formidable devia- tions of the ulcerative action, is the state of excitement, or the irritated ulcer. Let any man, who has a healthy ulcer on his leg, walk too far, or let him drink of ardent spirits, or bring into operation any other cause of excitement, and he shall immediately perceive the consequences to the ulcer. An ulcer, if we admit it to be dependant on an action of a living part, must be affected by the nature, and ordinary, or acquired291 condition of that part, and by all the changes wrought directly or indirectly on it. Some textures and organs have, relatively considered, lower power of performing action than others, and less ability to sustain the operation of stimuli. Some exhibit more sensibility than others under disease, and the reaction of this again on the disease, and on the condition of the part, I have fully noticed already. It would be a waste ol time to prove that the ulcerative action may be more or less tardy or vigorous, more or less prone to end in some new action, as suppuration or inflammation, or more or less liable to become excited, or very irritable, in one part of the body, and in one texture than another, or in any one part, according to the general condition of the system, or that of organs more directly operating by sympathy on the part. It is a truism, that every part may be excited with a facility proportioned to its excitability, and certain textures, as well as certain states of the system, render an ulcer more or less excitable. There is nothing in an ulcer which can exempt it fiom the operation and effect of those causes which could influence the part before: it may well say in the biting language of Shylock, “ If we are like you in the rest, we will lesemble you in that. An excited ulcer can no more heal than a man in fever can be considered in health. The effect of this excitement is to mar the granulating action. It induces a state of pain and irritation, under which the granu- lations never can be formed in a healthy way. The surface is either darker or more fiery in its colour, the discharge becomes thinner, and the granulations of a sharper and less organized appearance: the surrounding skin becomes to a greater or less extent inflamed, or at least turgid. If the excitement have been carried farther, the ulcerative action is destroyed alto- gethei, and exchanged either for that of inflammation or suppuration. It will therefore be scarcely possible to describe the varied intermediate degrees, which may be met with between slight disorder or excitement, and total annihilation of the ulcerative action. There is a very opposite state, which is often inducfed as a consequence of this one. A person by w alking, or by other causes, excites an ulcer during the day,292 by rest it so far recovers through the night; next day it is again excited, and again at night relieved. Thus matters go on until the character of the sore be totally changed. The repeated irritations, after having wrought much mischief, gradually cease to have any other effect than that of retaining the part in the condition to which they have brought it. We find the neighbouring cellular substance hard and swollen, the greatest pait of the limb perhaps enlarged, and covered not with skin and cellular substance, but with a diseased, indurated integument, sometimes polished like a pebble, sometimes rough and scaly. The sore is no longer an ulcer; it is indeed called an indolent ulcer; and indolent enough it is in the process of healing. It is a suppurating surface, with hard, white, and sometimes retorted edges. The surface itself exhibits no distinct granulation ; its aspect varies greatly; sometimes it is a shining or glossy surface, without any acumi- nations, and discharging copiously a fluid like serum ; at other times it has a fibrous appearance like petrified wood, with a similar discharge ; or it is covered with a layer of lymph adher- ing firmly to it. Not unfrequently such sores are complicated with a varicose state of the veins, sometimes produced by, oftener perhaps productive of, this kind of chronic sore. If I be right then, the chronic, or indolent ulcer, as it has been incorrectly called, is rarely the consequence of a healthy ulcer, sinking gradually into a state of languor, but is almost always the invariable consequence of previous excitement produced by imprudent exercise, by retarded venous circulation, conse« quent sometimes on merely keeping the legs in a dependant position, by intemperance, or by other causes influencing the part, through the medium of the constitution; and, when by any of these causes the ulcer is once disordered in its action, or the ulcerative exchanged for the suppurative action, we soon find that the organization of the surrounding parts comes to be more or less altered, with all the attendant train of evils thereupon ; and at length we may say that we have a suppurating sore situated on a texture altogether novel. With regard to the management of an ulcer in its excited state, there can be very little difference of opinion. We293 must avoid every thing which can keep up the excitement, and do (however little it may be) all we can to lessen the irritation. A state of absolute rest is indispensable, and in general the best application wre can make, is a bread and milk poultice. It the excitement have been merely local, this simple plan will be quite sufficient; but if it have been con- nected with, or dependant on, a more general cause, operat- ing through the constitution, it will be necessary to attend to that. Fermented liquors must be abstained from. The diet should be light: the bowels freely opened, and if the tongue be funed, a mercurial pill may for one or two nights be added to the laxative : if the skin be hot and dry,°the saline julap. If the ulcer be painful, notwithstanding the use of these means, we may then prescribe an anodyne at night. Having brought the ulcer into a more natural state, and got rid of the excitement, we may dress it with dry lint, and use moderate pressure; treating it ultimately as we would do a healthy ulcer. But we have seen that this unhealthy state may go farther, and may be productive of that total change of action, which has been improperly described under the appellation of indo- lent ulcer, and in which the sore does not granulate, but only suppurates, and sometimes is partially inflamed. This may present itself in two different conditions; that chronic or established state of suppuration that has been above described or, a person having this kind of sore, may, by fatigue or intem- perance, have it excited, so as to alter its character. The edges and surrounding skin to a considerable distance become red, the surface assumes a fiery appearance; in some spots there ma\, in extieme cases, be even an appearance of sloughino-. the pain is considerable, and extends up the limb; the dFs- ciaige is much increased, but always serous. This is the usual appearance of such a sore, when the patient has been exposed to fatigue, or laboured at his employment till the veiy ast, when he comes to apply for advice. Almost every is°on ' Tf°re’ °" ‘he admission of a into an hospital been , ,TT“,‘ 'Vha‘eVer itS “g1”1 <=h^«er may have been, and borders more or less on inflammation. The prac Itice must proceed at first on the principle of lessening excite- ment. A state of rest, with the limb in a horizontal position, is indispensably necessary, and will often be found of itself sufficient. A bread and milk poultice is the best appli- cation to this sore. In a state of high excitement, leeches applied around it, have been considered as useful; but they are rarely required. Strict temperance must be enjoined, and it will be useful to bring and preserve the alimentary canal into a correct state, by the exhibition of laxatives. Having brought the sore into the state from which the excitement had removed it, or being called to treat it in that state, which has been incorrectly denominated the chronic or indolent ulcer’, we must have recourse to such means as can establish the ulcerative action; for at present it is the chronic suppurative one which exists. These consist chiefly of stimu- lants, the most effectual of which is pressure. This has been applied in various ways; for example, by a sponge bound down by a roller, by the roller alone, or by the laced stocking. But the most effectual is the application of strips of adhesive plaster, firmly encircling the limb at the sore part, whilst the roller is firmly applied from the extremity of the limb to the articulation immediately above the sore. As the irritation of the adhesive plaster is apt to fret the skin, or produce itching or vesications, it is often of service to apply a band of soft old cloth around that part which is to be encircled by the strips of plaster. This dressing is to be renewed once in twenty-four hours. If much heat or painful itching be felt in the sore, the bandage may be moistened with cold water, which gives more relief than rubbing. The use of adhesive plaster has been pro- posed, in the middle of the sixteenth century, by Formey and by the noted Paracelsus, who speaks very confidently of the cure per sparadrapum. It is not to be supposed that any one remedy, however powerful, shall in every instance be effectual, and therefore, when this, which is the most useful, fails, we must inquh’e what others can be resorted to. Considerable advantage may be derived from stimulating salves and lotions, which ought always to be aided by the roller. As no one remedy, however beneficial it may be at first, continues toadvance the cure, we must vary the dressing the moment that we find the progress become either stationary or retrograde. Of the salves, one of the best is one of the ung. hyd. nit. dil. If this still smarts, it may be farther reduced by the addition of simple ointment. Next to this, we may place an ointment composed of an ounce of ung. resin, mixed with a drachm of hyd. precip. rub. The strength of these salves must be increased or diminished at different times according to the sensations of the patient. At each time of dressing, it is sometimes useful to wash the sore with a lotion, at other times it is dressed merely with a piece of lint dipt in that lotion, which may consist of solution of nitrate of silver in distilled water, in the proportion of 2 grains to an ounce, or such other strength as does not smart much. Solutions of other metallic salts of the same strength may next be employed, such as sulphate of zinc, or of copper, or a mixture ol a scruple of calomel with four ounces of lime water, or of oxymuriate of mercury and lime water in the proportion of 8 grains of the former to 6 or 8 ounces of the latter may be used. Water acidulated with nitrous acid, of the strength of very weak vinegar, may be employed: port wine is also useful. Most of these applications, whilst they stimulate the surface, also coagulate the discharge, and cover that surface with a kind ol natural dressing. The same remark applies to sprinkling the surface with red precipitate. I have omitted many other applications of less approved efficacy, such as bile, muriate of soda, camphor, &c. As the improvement gener- ally takes place first towards the circumference, it is some- times necessary to use different strengths of the same applica- tion or totally different applications to the central portion and circumference of the sore. The edges of such sores are usu- ally callous, and it has been proposed to destroy them by the application of nitrate of silver, or rubbing them with strong mercurial ointment, or some have gone the length of paring them off with the knife. But nothing in general is so effec- tual in promoting their absorption as pressure, which, even when salves or lotions are employed in preference to the adlie- u\o plaster, should always be taken advantage of to as great a296 degree as the patient’s sensations authorize. Some, even aid the operation of a roller by placing a piece of sheet lead over the sore; but this is seldom necessary. When a roller is piopeily applied, and particularly when adhesive plasters are used, it is not necessary to enjoin absolute rest, or insist on the limb being always horizontal; but still I cannot approve of much walking. The patient, although he may walk frequently, must never walk long. There is another circum- stance connected with this kind of sore, and which often con- tributes to keep it up, I mean a varicose state of the veins. These have a powerful effect in converting an ulcer, at first healthy, into this unhealthy state. The swelling and hard- ness of the parts in the neighbourhood of the ulcer is often considerable ; the pain is very troublesome, especially at night, and it extends up in the direction of the veins. This effect of varicose veins has been long known, and it was verv early proposed to destroy the varix by caustic or excision, or more lately by the application of a ligature around its upper extremity. All of these, however, are apt to produce inflam- mation of the vein, which spreads onwards towards the centre of the circulation, speedily destroying the patient. This inflammation is not indeed an invariable consequence of the operation, but nevertheless it has occurred so frequently, and is so much to be apprehended, that I deem it unwarrantable to have recourse to the ligature, the only one of these methods at present thought of. It has been proposed to introduce a narrow knife under the skin, between it and the vein, so as to traverse the surface of the vessel. The flat side is to be introduced parallel to the face of the vein; the edge of the knife is then to be directed to its face, and the vessel divided as the instrument is withdrawn; the haemorrhage is to be restrained by pressure, which is also intended to obliterate the canal. This, which may be called an extensive venesec- tion, by a small oblique opening, has been found to answer the purpose of obliteration. But until longer experience can determine that serious inflammation never succeeds to it, I must recommend trusting rather to the continued use of a roller, than resorting to this or any other operation.297 The section of the vein has been attended with fatal con- sequences, and neither it nor ligature can have any certain effect of benefiting the ulcer. It is not consonant to reason that it should, and it is impossible too strongly to reprobate the practice. The acute suppurating sore may supervene on a state of ulceration, or may be the direct result of circumscribed inflam- mation. The sore sometimes is superficial, and extensive, but level. At other times it is small and deep, like a cup, the edges are thin, sharp, and undermined, the surface has no appearance of granulation, but rather assumes the look of a coating of glossy lymph of a buff colour, the discharge is thin, the pain is considerable, and in some cases most severe, par- ticularly if the surface be touched ; the skin to a small extent aiound the margin is red and tender, and often undermined, and ragged, and these ragged proportions soon become in- flamed, and then die. This sore, so long as it retains its character, spreads, but increases faster laterally than down- wards, so that if there be one or two such sores near one another, they ultimately form one. The danger and incon- venience, however, of this sore, arise not so much from this, as from its tendency to inflame, which is almost a sure fore- 1 unner of sloughing. 1 he suppurating sore is also sometimes quite superficial, and consists of a patch of greater or less size, covered with a buff coloured layer which cannot be removed. This is level with the surface of the limb, and is surrounded with erythematic inflammation to a greater or less extent. It may be doubted how far this should be called a suppuiating sore, for it is rather a sore covered with exuda- tion of albuminous or fibrinous substance, with a little dis- charge of serum, or brownish or buff coloured thin pus, and it never heals till it begin to discharge more healthy pus, and tien it gianulates, and the surface becomes red. It is a species of suppuration, and therefore may be placed here. Suppurating sores appearing in succession, often commence in the subcutaneous cellular substance, where, near a cup-like sore still existing, there is felt a softness as if matter were con- ained, then the surface becomes red, and next it opens, andc2 98 a sore is formed; but sometimes, before this, matter can be pressed from the little abscess, and find its way out at the former sore. The object of treatment ought to be to induce the ulcerative or granulating process; but this cannot be effected till we know the causes which produce this acute sup- purative state. They sometimes consist in diseased states of the constitution, as for instance scrofula, and some forms of the struma maligna of the old writers, bore all the characters of tllis sore- A constitution injured by intemperance, par- ticularly by excesses committed in a warm climate, I have also found apt to produce it. Patches of erysipelatous inflam- mation are also apt to end in this. We have no power of speedily altering the constitution. Mercury is often given as an alterative, at other times, for no other reason, but because it is necessary to do something, and on either principle its administration is useless. But what is more directly to the point, it never does good, although it may do harm. In this sweeping condemnation I do not include a mercurial purge, but this does not act as mercury upon the system. Decoction of sarsaparilla has also been employed, and where the patient insists on the privilege of swallowing drugs, it is I believe as harmless a one as he can amuse himself with. The bowels, on a general principle, ought to have their action kept up to a sufficient degree, by that form of laxative which agrees best with the patient; the diet should be light, and in most instances fermented liquors should be abstained from. As this sore is painful, sometimes to such a degree, as to pro- cure. for it the name of Irritable ulcer, it is necessary to give opiates to such extent as shall allay the sensation. It would be dangerous to neglect this, and we shall always find the sore do best when the pain is subdued. I have tried cicuta internally, but not with the same benefit as is derived from opium ; but when the latter does not agree, the former should be given to such an extent as to influence the nervous system. Quinine I have tried alone, or combined with cicuta, but not with decided advantage. No one local application can be depended upon, and we must try one after another in each individual case, till we find out that which suits, or relieves299 pain, or makes the sore granulate. Carrot poultices, bread and milk poultices, fomentations with decoction of poppy heads, lint wet with the solution of nitrate of silver of such strength as barely to smart, for instance three or four grains to an ounce of rose water, or a drachm of calomel mixed with eight ounces of lime water, forming what is called the black wash, sometimes simple ointment alone, or. olive oil by itself, or with a small addition of the acetum lithargyri, or a hemlock poultice, or camphorated spirit of wine, may be em- ployed. Whatever gives permanent pain does harm, and very often the mildest applications are the most useful. Indeed, I believe that in many instances, local applications have little share in the cure, which depends either on a salu- tary change on the constitution, or an improvement in the part itself from obscure causes, supposed to be sufficiently explained by saying, that the disease has worn itself out. The best then, perhaps, that we can say, in favour of any applica- tion is, that it has done no harm. Some have found relief from a poultice of boiled greens sprinkled with sugar. A lintseed, or bread and milk, poultice mixed with a considerable quantity of extract of cicuta, sometimes is soothing to the part. This acute suppuratingsore is very apt to become affected, oftener partially than universally, with inflammation of the low kind, ending rapidly in mortification. A portion of the surface, but still more frequently of the margin, assumes a fiery red colour, with a hue approaching to pink, soon it becomes successively purple, blue, and black, after which it is thrown off as a slough. When the surface is affected, it loses its glossy buff colour, and becomes redder. When the margin is affected, a fiery yet livid redness extends a little way from the sore, generally with a smarting or burning sensation, and presently gangrene supervenes to the extent, nearly of discoloration. -This kind of sore may spread deep as well as laterally, but some kinds tend more to one direction than another. From the devouring or destructive nature of the sore it has been called phagedena. The acute suppurating soie, may without inflammation make considerable progress, so as to deserve the name of a depascent sore; but the slough-nig phagedena is always preceded by inflammatory action. Ibis may supervene on the suppurating sore, but it also sometimes, though more rarely, attacks a granulating ulcer. The causes of this very formidable disease are much more frequently general than local, unless when they consist in the local application of a morbid poison. Great irritability of the system can act as a general cause. A high excitement, pro- duced by some peculiar agents, as for instance mercury, is another general cause. Certain morbid poisons applied directly to the part which they inflame produce this disease; and I have remarked, that when secondary sores, as they are called, follow this sloughing phagedena, they often appear as small dull pustules, terminating in open sores, not by previous suppuration, but by the formation of a central black slough which is thrown off. Phis inflamed and sloughing ulcer often makes great progress, although perhaps not very rapidly. It is thus for- midable by the mere destruction of a part which may be very important; but it is farther dangerous from that particular species of spreading which it exhibits. In cases of mortifica- tion following the inflammation of parts previously entire, we find that the vessels affected become obliterated; but in this kind of sloughing, attacking suppurating sores, this oblitera- tion can never be depended upon. When the slough too is thrown off, the surface immediately below is left in a state of spreading suppuration, so that even granting that the vessels interested were closed to a small extent, they would soon come to be opened by the suppurative action. Haemorrhage, therefore, is a very frequent attendant on this disease, and when the sore is seated near a large vessel, the life of the patient is in the utmost hazard. Various local applications have been proposed, but upon no one can we place much reliance. The sore sometimes speedily cicatrizes above one spot, whilst it is sloughing at another, and neither the one nor the other of these processes can be attributed to the applica- tions. In general, mild dressings to keep the part easy are the best, such as carrot poultices, or the other mild applica- tions recommended in the suppurating sore; and, indeed, ISOI can add nothing with regard to the general or local treatment, bejmnd what I have already said with regard to the acute sup- purating sore, farther than this, that from the high inflam- mation which is supposed to precede the sloughing, leeches have been recommended to be applied in the vicinity ; or when there is much fever, venesection has been proposed. In general, these remedies are neither necessary nor useful, but there may be, and undoubtedly are exceptions to this rule; and when either a febrile condition, or decided marks of high local vascular action exist, general or topical blood- letting will be useful. To conclude, when a vessel is opened in the progress of this sore, the haemorrhage must be imme- diately restrained by the application of a small pellet of lint pressed for some time on the spot with the finger, and after- wards allowed to remain without disturbance. And every patient with this sore ought to be instructed in the use of pressure, should haemorrhage occur. If this fail, the bleeding spot must be touched with oil of turpentine, or nitrate of silver. If the vessel be larger, and the blood flow in a small stream when the part is uncovered, a ligature must be applied around it by means of the forceps or tenaculum. A variety of this disease is too well known under the name of hospital gangrene. This is clearly infectious, and may be communicated either by innoculation, that is, by touching a sore or wound with a sponge or dressing which is infected, or by atmospheric influence. In crowded hospitals, if great attention be not paid to ventilation and cleanliness, it is sure sooner or later, to break out, and when it does, it spreads with alarming consequences; every sore, wound, or abraded surface, is attacked, and sometimes even a pimple is sufficient for the infection to lay hold of. It has even by some been said, that uninjured parts might be attacked, and, therefore, that no one was safe; and such cases are represented as beginning with a pimple or little inflamed spot, soon forming a vesicle. I am much inclined to doubt this, and am at least borne out in saying, that if it ever appear without previous local disease, or some slight abrasion of the surface, such occurrence must be very rare. This is the first great fact,establish. The second is, then, which I would wish to that the affected spot, whether scratch, wound, or sore, is attacked with erysipelatous inflammation extending somewhat beyond the wound or sore. If small, the scratch or wound is soon involved in a vesicle: if larger, the margins are usually surrounded with vesication. The fluid contained is brownish in colour. 1 he vesicle bursts, and the part below is found either of a fiery red or purple colour, presently turning darker ; and at last black, or sometimes ash-coloured sloughs are formed. From the first time the constitution is affected it is even doubtful if the constitutional disorder do not actually precede the local appearance. The appetite ceases, the patient cannot sleep, he has headach sometimes veiy severe, sometimes more dull, accompanied with tight- ness. The tongue becomes slimy or furred; there is thirst, anu often nausea or vomiting. The pulse is frequent, and the skin feels hot. As soon as these symptoms manifest them- selves, the aspect of the sore or wound changes, and it becomes unhealthy. It then swells, the surrounding skin inflames like erysipelas, and there is a strong tendency to vesication. The surface of the ulcer or wound becomes fiery and florid, or pink of a glossy appearance, and discharges thin, perhaps ill-smelled, liquid. The pain is sharp, in some cases burning and intolerable. The fever increases, the mind is unstable or desponding, the stomach more affected, and the stools are foetid. The erysipelatous redness spreads with more or less rapidity, so that although the local disease began in a small spot, the whole foot or hand may be affected in a few hours, or the progress may be slower though not less steady. The surface I have said becomes first fiery and glossy, but soon it assumes quite a different aspect, and either black or ash sloughs are formed. These may cover the surface, or different parts may at the same time be in a state of high fiery gangrenous inflammation, gangrene, and sphacelus. The edges of such a sore are ragged, projecting, and sometimes hard like those of a cancer. They are bare and of a glossy red in some places, in others smeared with adhering stuff, half matter half slough, of a buff colour, whilst the bottom islike an excoriation covered with hard slough, or a tenacious brown coating, through points of which may be seen highly inflamed or sphacelated portions. These sphacelated por- tions are thrown off, but the fever rather increases than diminishes, the pain is severe, and the surface exposed is still fiery and of a violet colour. The erysipelatous inflamma- tion extends, and all the ground is again gone over; the weakness increases, the pulse becomes weaker and more fre- quent, the countenance is ghastly, no food can be received, or if received, retained, the limb often begins to swell, or the lymphatics appear more inflamed like chords, haemor- rhages are apt to occur, or a general oozing of bloody serum sinks the patient. Death is preceded by hiccup, and those symptoms which usually attend dissolution from mortification. This disease, we have seen, is decidedly infectious; but we are at a loss with regard to its origin. It is a matter of fact, that it is apt to break out in crowded hospitals, especially where due attention is not paid to cleanliness. Even where great attention is given, it sometimes makes its appearance, and it may be stated as a matter of fact, that erysipelas is usually prevalent about the same time, from which we would infei that they are somehow connected in a common cause. Hospital gangrene is supposed to have been first distinctly described by Ponteau, 1783, but it appears to have been too well known, practically, to older writers, under the name of ulcus putridum. Pare, who gives us an abstract of his campaigns, says, that at the capture of Rouen, 1562, many died of their wounds both before and after the assault. The air was so bad, says he, that the smallest wound was often fatal, in so much, that it was supposed that the balls were poisoned, and the enemy believed the same on their part. Hippocrates had formerly noticed a similar circumstance i elating to wounds of head, and Morgagni refers to instances °t gangrene attacking all the wounded, Epist. 41, Art. 12 and 13. That it prevailed in the Hotel Dieu in the begin- ning of the last century, we know from La Motte; Another suigeon in the same hospital declares, that every patient w io was operated upon died; and from that time downwards,we often hear of the bad air of the hospital, and many sur- geons, I believe, declined to operate there in cases where they would have been less scrupulous in healthier situations. When this disease breaks out, it must be guarded against as a plague; the infected should be separated from those who are not yet attacked; all unnecessary communication must be prevented, more especially communication by contact; the wards should be carefully ventilated; but if possible, it would be still better to have the patients removed and their rooms shut up and washed. I can say little in favour of fumigation; but I fear it has in this as in other cases been too often trusted, to the neglect of more efficient preventatives. Very contrary opinions have been maintained with regard to the treatment, both general and local. Observing men, however, seem to be agreed in this, that climate and temper- ature, as well as other circumstances, may alter the nature of the disease, in so far as to render it sometimes highly bene- ficial, sometimes useless, if not detrimental, to have recourse to bloodletting. When the fever is high, and evidently of the inflammatory nature, early bloodletting has been found useful; in all other cases it should be avoided. Emetics have been recommended on the first attack, perhaps as much on theoretical as practical grounds. 1 he moderate use ot purgatives, on a general principle, is better supported. After bloodletting has been used, or where it has not been admissible, bark and cordials have been advised; but these must be given or withheld according to theii effects. Light nourishment, such as the patient can digest, ought to be given, for it must not be forgotten, that we may safely support where we dare not excite. Opiates have been advised as cordials; they are indeed highly serviceable, not as stimu- lants, but as allayers of pain. With regard to the local treatment, the same diversity of opinion has prevailed, some recommending strong stimulating dressings, varied according to the theory they have adopted: others only the mildest applications; whilst a third set propose to destroy the surface at once by the actual cautery. As the sore presents itself either generally or partially under two different circum-305 stances, that of an insensible slough, or of an irritable and some- times exquisitely tender surface, it may be supposed that both plans may be alternately useful. Stimulants, I believe, can do little good through a slough, and they are seldom found to answer well in the inflammatory stage. We are therefore led to adopt the actual cautery or the mild dressings. The application, I believe, the most generally useful is a carrot or bread and milk poultice, with which charcoal may be some- times mixed, in order to diminish the smell. If stimulants are to be tried, the best, I believe, is a solution of nitrate of silver, or ot chloride of lime. I am more disposed, however, to attribute the cure oftener to the efforts of nature, than to the active influence of the remedies employed. When there is high action, bloodletting may be necessary to subdue it: more frequently we must endeavour to support the strength without giving undue excitement, obviate such causes as still tend to injure the constitution, and employ such dressings as may alone, or with opiates, best allay pain. We have no specific, no peremptory mean of cure; our only rational hope can be placed on that plan, which professes to put the system in the situation best calculated for overcoming the disease. CHAP. VI. OF TUMOURS. SECTION FIRST. If we could suppose that tumours were ever formed to any considerable extent, by mere augmentation of natural texture to a preternatural degree, we would divide them into two great classes—the natural and the adventitious. We often read of cellular and fatty tumours, and no doubt, in certain parts of the body, accumulations of fat may take place. Put almost without exception, every tumour differs in some respects from any natural texture; and even those which \ Xhave most the appearance of fat contain more or less lymph, most of them indeed are in a great measure made up ol it. Leaving it as a matter still to be proved that any such enlarge- ment, as merits the name of a tumour, arises from the mere augmentation of the natural texture of the part, I would adopt at once the conclusion, that a tumour is a new forma- tion. A phlegmon, or an acute inflammatory swelling, we have seen, possesses a particular texture, which, in the process of resolution, is gradually absorbed, and the natural texture restored, but it may happen that neither resolution nor sup- puration takes place. Active inflammation ceases, but the part is not restored to health. It still remains enlarged. It still possesses an unnatural structui’e; it performs an action neither inflammatory nor healthy, but one peculiar to itself. Injure a part in any way, so as to produce a disorganization either mechanically or vitally, but more readily in one texture than in another, more easily, for instance, in a secreting gland than in cellular substance, and a similar result takes place. Some degree of inflammation may take place, modified per- haps by rupture of vessels, and effusion of blood, or secretion of coagulable lymph. As we have no proof that blood can remain alive after its extravasation, it can only in those cases, where a return to the natural organization does not take place, be considered as a peculiar stimulus to the orifice of the vessels, which, when it is absorbed, deposit or secrete in its place a substance more or less resembling it, and with varying proportions of red globules. There may be much of the red deposite forming hepatized texture; there may con- tinue, in different parts, to be an effusion still more resembling blood. On the other hand, we may have none of the colour- ing matter deposited, but the lymph more or less altered. The blood consists of different parts, which are yielded in different degrees and altered states in the various textures of the body; and as lymph or globules may happen to prepon- derate in the swelling produced more immediately by the injuring cause, so may the vessels continue to be influenced in their succeeding depositions. There are white textuies ot various density, and red of different hues and consistence.307 1 lie former, however, are much more frequent than the latter, inasmuch as the globules are sooner absorbed, and more diffi- cultly secreted than the lymph, but the immediate causes of the particular modifications are quite obscure. In so far as I have gone, then, a rupture of vessels, a mechanical injury, or a change of texture from previous inflammation, seem neces- sary for the production of a tumour. But tumours often appear without any evident cause, without injury, without pain, and are not known to exist till accidentally discovered. 1 he obscurity of their origin, however, is no proof that some slight inflammation may not have existed, or some injury may not have been inflicted, which was not attended to. But I am willing to give up the necessity of these causes, and admit that other actions, which still remain to be investigated, like other planets which may remain yet to be discovered, may, without any inflammation, effect a change of structure. The development of little vesicles or hydatids, has been supposed a frequent cause of tumours. The nature of these vesicles was long unknown. Some supposed them to be the capsules of httle glands. Others a swollen portion of a lymphatic. But by the time of Morgagni they began to be considered as animals. lhat indefatigable dissector supposed that they might be converted into morbid growths; and more lately we have had regular systems founded on the hydatidic origin of cancer and tubercles. That tumours of different descrip- tions contain cysts of various sizes, and that some are made up entirely of one cyst, we well know; but that these cysts are hydatids is a mere gratuitous supposition, no better established than that which furnishes the moon with inhabitants. Whilst I admit the possibility of a tumour originating with- out previous inflammation, I consider this to be rare, and attiibute the production in most instances to inflammation moie or less distinct. Let us apply any irritation or excite- ment to a part, and if it do not eventually produce suppuration, it is sure to cause effusion of fibrin, which is the basis of all tumours of a simple nature. It matters not whether we select as an example a spicula of bone, or a grain of sand, or a par- tic e of mercury, or the knot of a ligature, one and the same308 result takes place, namely, the effusion of fibrin, and the for- mation of a small tumour exactly like the huffy part of blood, but sometimes harder or softer, or more shining or duller. When this little tumour is formed, it comes, like the original cause, trilling as it was, which produced it, to act fre- quently in a similar way on the surrounding part, and it thus comes to spread or enlarge. This, then, is one way in which tumours arise, and a very small induration may be produced by pressure or some other injury, which can never, like a bit of thread or particle of mercury, be detected. But in other cases, more distinct and extensive inflammation may from some cause have been excited, and all at once a considerable swelling takes place; it may be of a gland, or perhaps in the subcutaneous cellular substance, but it matters not in what part of the body, or in what texture, be it bone or viscus, it is all the same. If the inflammation be not quite removed, the inflammatory texture is not absorbed, more or less fibrin remains, and a distinct, perhaps a considerable, tumour is at once formed and established. It may involve the whole gland or organ, or it may occupy only a part, whilst the rest for a time returns to health. I thus take up the ground, that almost every tumour owes its origin to inflammation more or less distinct, and that in most, if not in all which are not chiefly, if not entirely of a vascular nature, the solid structure at first consists of fibrin intermixed with the more unchanged texture of the part, but this may soon become altered, and new modifications of animal matter are met with. So long as the composition is made up of fibrin, there is little danger, for of all solid tumours, such are the most innocent. But when albumen or gelatin come to form a considerable part of the tumour, the case is otherwise, and if a sore be formed, that is at least very intractable. As a tumour is a new formation, we may compare it to a new animal connected to the old one, acting by its own pecu- liar laws, and at the same time so associated with the system to which it is attached, as to be, in varying degrees of facility, influenced by it, and capable of reacting in its turn upon it. We can say nothing a priori with regard to the actions or309 habitudes of a tumour, more than we can in regard to those of a polypus or a cuttle fish. We can only ascertain them by experience; for a knowledge of the physiology of the body in which the tumour is formed, can give no information respect- ing the physiology of the tumour. It may indeed confirm us in our opinion respecting the influence of the one upon the other, but even in this respect, speculation must be always corrected by actual observation. If I be correct in this view of the matter, it will afford but a melancholy prospect of a cure. For, if such tumours pos- sess a new organization, and be considered as grafts, of a distinct and often independent nature, on the body, we can have little , t least, in procuring their absorption; and in point of fact, we do find that even our most active applications seldom diminish their size. We may from the sympathy which may exist between them and the body, often by stimulants accelerate their progress; but that is a different view of the matter. In that stage of a tumour, produced by a blow, or any other exciting cause of inflammation, when it is passing from a more acute to a chronic stage, when it is not terminating by resolution, but is about to settle down into that state neither healthy nor inflammatory, we may frequently by active means restore the health of the part. Perhaps in no instance, when the texture of the part continues still to be the simple inflammatory texture, although the action have become chronic, need we despair. As we cannot always by external marks say that the texture has in such cases altered, we ought invariably to try the means for removing the slow inflammatory action which remains. It is in this way chiefly that we promote absorption and diminish the tumour. It is not by exciting the lymphatics, but by quenching the unex- tinguished inflammation which may have endured for weeks or months. Leeches are highly useful in this view, but if they do good, they do so soon and progressively. Mercury, bv changing the action or destroying it, is also of service ; and it is worthy of observation, that in many cases of mini- fied testicle, accompanied with hydrocele, this remedy has a speedy influence; but, like leeching, it does good speedily if310 it is to be useful, and therefore we must attend to the effect, for if not salutary, it may be hurtful. It may be given in small quantity internally, and also rubbed morning and evening on the tumour. The ointment may sometimes be mixed with powdered camphor. We also try the effect of applying cloths moistened with a mixture of equal parts of vinegar and camphorated spirit of wine, or small blisters frequently repeated. When a tumour, for instance, is pro- duced by a blow on the female breast, we should instantly apply leeches, and perhaps repeat the application, using in the intervals lotions of cold water; but if the tumour con- tinue after the active inflammation have passed off, we should immediately have recourse to the mercurial friction, with the use of laxatives, well knowing that if it be not absorbed, it must end in an organization over which we have no control. It is not sufficient to have the texture absorbed, we must not have it redeposited. Every tumour, even a cancer, is ab- sorbed, but it is replaced with similar substance and continues the same action. I am quite aware that I shall be told that chronic tumours of the thyroid gland, of the mamma and other parts of the body, have been discussed by the use of leeches, blisters, and the administration of purgatives, and such medicines as impi'ove digestion. I have only to reply, that we much oftener read of such successful cases than meet with them, and repeat, that no tumour possessing an organ- ization different from that of the inflammatory tumour, can be absorbed by artificial means, unless its peculiarity of action and structure depend on constitutional causes which we are capable of removing. Even such cases, when curable, manifest rather a specialty of action than a decided difference in organization from that produced by simple inflammation. It is only when the chronic inflammatory tumour is kept from healing by sympathetic influence exerted on it by other local conditions, as, for example, irritation of the bowels, &c. that the removal of such irritation by purgatives can have a good effect on the tumour. Tumours which possess an action dependant on the system, or which may be associated with the natural action of the constitution, are in one respect less311 dangerous than those which do not depend on diathesis or general condition of the system, for the latter are in a greater degree independent, and grow and act by their own laws; we may kill them or cut them out, but we cannot cure them. On the other hand, the former may be cured if we know the specific remedy, an example of which we have in syphilis, ' which from the first, is not cut off from all obedience to the system, or regulation by it. Some tumours may at first be quite independent of the system, and yet by continuance may influence the system so as to produce effects which can- not be removed by destroying the original tumour. It is possible for a tumour, in consequence of the state induced in the nerves going to it, to affect the origins, or pretty exten- sively the medulla spinalis, &c., and thus excite, on various parts of the body, a similar action, leading to the formation of tumour; or, from some cause operating from the first, and extensively on the nervous system, we may have many tumours formed. The fact is certain, that some, without any evident cause, have a multitude of tumours scattered over the body. It is clear, that a mere graft or parasite unaffected by the system cannot be cured by general remedies, but only, if at all, by such as operate on itself. Even the simple tumour result- ing from, and for a time, kept up by, a chronic inflammation, is of this kind. Some tumours are capable of inflaming, and may suppurate or even ulcerate. Others do not inflame, or if they do, and even suppurate or form a fluid, never ulcer- ate. Many are supposed to inflame when they only enlarge, and the skin over them inflames and gives way, and then the tumour protrudes. But this is surely different from the pro- duction of a fungus, or an inflammatory or ulcerative action in the tumour itself. No attempt hitherto made to classify tumours has been successful; and the very term sarcoma, which has been applied to a great variety of growths, is objectionable, in as much as none of them, properly speaking me fleshy. Without venturing on any classification, which the present state of our knowledge does not enable me to do I shall notice some of the most common.312 SECTION SECOND. A tumour very frequently met with is composed principally ol fibrin, enclosed in a capsule. It differs from the chronic inflammatory tumour in this, that the latter has fibrin more oi less alteied, and generally of an ash or gray colour, effused into cells, amongst which vessels ramify in greater or less number, whilst the former form a regular and uniform mass of yellow or whitish fatty looking substance, either without any septa, or having only thin cellular septa subdividing it rather into lobes, than packets or grains. Few vessels pene- trate into it, and sometimes none can be discovered. It is always, at first at least, contained in a capsule, more or less dense, to which it adheres but slightly, and from which it seems to be secreted. It has sometimes been called an adipose, or fatty tumour, but although its aspect may justify this, yet it does not melt by heat, nor contain any sebaceous matter ; on the contrary, it is composed of fibrin. Both the shape and the surface are often irregular: but the tumour does not feel hard or stony ; it is even sometimes rather doughy, and when this is not the case it is elastic, as if it con- tained a fluid in a tense cyst. It is not painful, and usually is slow in its growth, and so long as it retains its original charac- ter has no tendency to inflame or suppurate, but if it acquire a great size, or by any cause the skin or surrounding cellular substance becomes irritated or inflamed, then not only is an open sore formed, but changes may be induced in the structure of the tumour itself. Generally speaking, however, such tumours are inconvenient from their bulk chiefly, or danger- ous from their mechanical effects. No tumour is so easily removed, for it is only necessary to make an incision over it, and divide the capsule, when the solid substance may be turned out with the finger, or separated by the handle of the scalpel. If any part have become altered, or have been inflamed, then indeed an adhesion is formed, which it may be necessary to divide, and this part often has vessels ramifying in it, or, if seated over a fascia, vascular adhesion may take place between them. On account of the tendency to increase, and thereby318 become inconvenient; from the chance of troublesome adhesion forming to important parts; and, above all, the possibility of a change taking place in the structure, such tumours ought to be early removed, for no medicine or topical application has any effect. SECTION THIRD. The next is the firm cellular tumour, of a gray colour when cut into. It evidently exhibits cells, formed as in the subcu- taneous texture by lamina of cellular substance, but these ol'ten become in time indistinct, perhaps obliterated. The contents of the cells vary in different cases, and sometimes in different stages. There is always more or less albumen, and often the deposite is mixed with fibrin, but generally it is more sebaceous, or even oily. It may appear improper to class such opposite tumours together, but whilst there are two extremes, one tumour containing little else than fibrin, and another adipose substance, there is between these two such a variety in the proportions of these as to defeat all arrangement, and the same remark applies to the variable quantity of cellular matter. Such tumours have been called adipose, or vascular sarcoma, &c., according to the aspect; but in many cases, what appears to be fatty matter, is quite dif- ferent from adipose substance. There is no tumour, properly so called, made up entirely of fatty deposition. That there are enlargements in particular parts of the cellular and sebace- ous substance, or that one cell increases, and contains much more fat than usual, is not to be disputed, but these enlarge- ments are never called adipose tumours. The adipose&or steatomatous tumour often is attached by a pedicle, or forms a kind of wen; when cut, it has a fatty cellular appearance, and fat runs out from it when heated. If boiled in water it becomes harder and denser, and whiter from the coagulation of albumenous fluid in the cells. If we boil sound cellular substance, we find that it contracts, but it remains compara tjvely soft, and composed of cells filled with fat. There is t leieloie, m this tumour, much albumen in addition to soba* ceous substance. The composition may aiso vary Z^Z3M< to the nature of the organ which it occupies. This kind of tumour may form in a small gland as a nisus, and in that case the covering of the gland enlarging, the tumour appears to have a capsule; but when it forms in the subcutaneous cellular substance, there is no distinct capsule, although from the thickening of the substance around it, there is sometimes an indistinct resemblance of one. These tumours are never painful till they inflam# unless by their weight or pressure on nerves, or some important part. They are generally smooth on the surface, and ol a round or ovoid shape, firm and compact to the feel, but with- out the induration of scirrhus or the elasticity of spongoid tumour. When cut into, this tumour appears very much like dense cellular substance. It has not the cartilaginous appearance, and membranous septa of cancer, the brainular appearance of spongoid, nor the glandular look of some othei tumours. It is more vascular than the yellow fibrinous tumour, on which account it has been called vascular saicoma. Tlhe cutaneous veins may become varicose. It is not painful 01 tender, and when it does inflame, the skin covering it becomes to a greater or less extent destroyed; but neither it nor the tumour have any tendency to fungous ulceration. The tumour itself is not very susceptible of the suppurative, and stdl less of the ulcerative action, but is more apt to slough. Small tumours may thus be completely destroyed, but larger ones only slough partially: the dead portion is long of being thrown off,"the discharge is highly offensive, and there is often so much constitutional injury or irritation, as to call for extirpation. This I have found particularly the case in the breasts of old women, where the slough, of an ash colour, and intolerable smell, lies almost covered by the collapsed skin. In other cases the slouching gland may excite to disease in the bed in which it lies, and cause universal injury in the breast. Where the testicle is affected in this manner, only a very partial slough takes place. When this kind of tumour is exposed by the skin inflaming and giving way, we find, that if it do not slough, it becomes smooth, and yields a sero-purulent fluid. Next to the unorganized deposition of fibrin noticed in the315 last section, this firm cellular tumour is the simplest which can exist. It often follows inflammation, and is a mid-stage between the continuance of the disease and restoration to health; but like most other half measures, is seldom satisfactory. It forms an adventitious growth which acts independent of the body, and therefore has no necessary limitation to its enlargement. But as the texture is not greatly different from that which the part formerly possessed, at least in its essential qualities, we find that the chief inconvenience is that arising from its progressive enlargement, such tumours sometimes acquiring an enormous size, or pressing on parts of import- ance to life. It may also happen that these tumours may be so acted upon in particular spots, as to be more or less excited. Inflammation followed by abscess may take place, which abscess may either burst, and heal, or form a sinus, or its surface may ossify. Inflammation may also, where the tumour is large, be productive of more or less sloughing, or a sore may form which is seldom granulating, but generally exhibits a firm hollow glossy surface, yielding a serous fluid. The textuie may also come to be changed in different parts, giving theie a new character to the tumour, and perhaps productive of greater hazard. The tendency to these differ- ent terminations may be greater or less, according to the original nature of the part on which the tuipour forms; for there is no texture in which this tumour may not form. Such a tumour may occupy the neck, and enlarge like another head, or may cover the half of the back; or when it affects the testicle may produce a tumour reaching to the knee, and yet in all these cases, the only inconvenience may arise from the bulk. We have no mean of curing this tumour, that is to say, of having it completely absorbed, more than we can procure the absorption of a supernumerary finger. We must either let the tumour alone, or cut it out; and wherever its enlargement would be unseemly, inconvenient, or dangerous, it ought to be early removed, as we know not to what extent it may grow, or what changes may take place in it. As an exception, however, to this rule, I would state, that if the patient be greatly advanced in life, or infirm, and more espe-316 cially il the lecjuisite operation must be severe, as for example the removal ol the testicle, we ought to have some cogent reason for proposing extirpation. A suspensary bandage in the case of the testicle, and avoiding excitement and local irritation in every instance, must be proper. In all other cases, the tumour should be early removed, for however inno- cent it may in one sense be considered in its original condi- tion, it is always dangerous, inasmuch as we may at a future time dread its enlargement and change of character, when pei haps it may be too late to operate. Who has not seen this repeatedly in the progress of tumours in the neck ? They begin of small size, possibly in the substance of a lymphatic gland ; they are void of pain, quite moveable, and destitute of any mark of malignancy. Who, in such a case, it may be asked, would propose, and what patient would submit to an opera- tion, for removing a simple and harmless tumour, perhaps a mere enlarged gland, which may presently discuss, or at all events may never grow larger? It may be so, and if the patient be a child, and the tumour a scrofulous lymphatic gland, the case is not one in point; but if an adult be affected with this simple tumour, and receive this consolatory advice, we find that indeed he passes a year or two, it matters not whether I be correct as to the number of months, without more inconvenience, and without being heard of, but when he returns, the tumour is decidedly larger, perhaps new ones have formed; they are harder, more fixed, and both the breathing and deglutition are most painfully affected, but it is now too late to operate. The carotid artery and jugular vein are involved in the tumour, but that is the least of the evil, for the par vagum and sympathetic nerves are interested, the adhesions to the gullet and larynx are strong, and it would be little better than instant destruction to perform the opera- tion. The patient is indeed doomed to a lingering and miser- able death, for surgery cannot now save him. Now, in this case, the tumour has not merely enlarged, but it has changed its character. It is no longer merely firm, and when cut into more or less cellular, but it is hard in all points, or when not hard, it is elastic or tense, and when cut into,317 no cellular appearance is discovered, but the section has either a granulated appearance, or it is smooth, dense, and polished somewhat like cartilage. Very often the section, though at first smooth, quickly presents an appearance of grains, or little prominences, which, when touched with the point of a lancet, and examined with a glass, seem to exude a speck of pellucid lymph. If the tumour be boiled, either in water or in vinegar, it becomes harder, and more contracted. It seems to contain a considerable proportion of albumen. This change is capable of being accelerated by many causes, espe- ciahy by such as in any degree produce a permanent, or evince a frequent irritation or excitement; and hence, if we do not extirpate the tumour early as a precaution, it follows that we must sedulously attend to the general health, the mode of living, the influence of distant sympathies, and the operation of directly local excitation. SECTION FOURTH. Another tumour I shall notice is one so totally unlike the former in its appearance, that I can only justify my selection of it to be placed next, on account of its apparent simplicity. It is cellular like the former, but as vascular as the placenta, to which it bears so great a resemblance, that it may not improperly be called the placentary tumour. It was long a^o noticed by Severinus under the name of the “ tuberculum cruentum atrum;” afterwards by Petit as a varicose affec- tion, and more lately by Mr. John Bell under the appellation o anastomosing aneurism. He considers it as of cellular nature, each artery opening into a cell from a corresponding vein, arises; and Mr. Freer says he has injected these cells! Others, however, from the same testimony of injection, main- tain that these apparent cells consist merely of an inextri- cab e network of vessels, no intermediate cell existing. Dupuv- tren says this is a particular texture naturally in the body formed by a fibrous membrane, from the internal surface of W 10 Ueie Passes a multitude of prolongations, inter crossing each other in all directions, and sustaining artels and vetns prodigiously subdivided. It exists in the corpora318 cavernosa penis et clitoridis, the nipple, placenta, spleen, &c. This, which he calls the “ tissue erectile,” may be formed as an unnatural texture in any part of the body, most frequently in the cellular substance immediately under the skin. On exa- mining these tumours, they are found to be soft, stringy, and cellular, like the placenta, to which they bear a great resem- blance, only are not so soft, nor so easily torn. Another kind, however, is made up rather of convoluted vessels than of cells, but there is very little difference in the progress or treatment. Such unnatural growths are, farther, of two varieties, according as the arterial or venous vessels predomi- nate. The arterial is the more acute, as well as the more dangerous; it is generally, but by no means universally, congenital, and appeal's like a red spot, or little elevated pimple. But when this is examined, it is found that the redness does not proceed from inflammation, but from a multitude of vessels congregated under the skin. They sink apparently pretty deep, but are not alike superficial, and therefore the tumour is somewhat mottled. Even at this early period, crying, or whatever can excite the vascular sys- tem, renders the speck both more turgid and more florid. On the other hand, cold, sickness, or pressure, will render it for a time less distinct. Pressure readily slackens this tumour, and when it is then grasped between the fingers, it has a doughy or spongy feel. The red colour of the surface, which can be seen, is greatly diminished; when the pi’essure is removed, the swelling rapidly returns, the colour is resumed, and the vessels sometimes which feed the tumour can be seen to pulsate strongly. When the tumour is excited by heat, exertion, or anger, we can also then more readily discover the pulsation of vessels, going to supply the tumour, when they are superficial. Such formations may remain long without increasing; they may even sometimes, though rarely, disap- pear by an obliteration of the vessels. But a person who has this tumour is never safe, although it may have remained sta- tionary for many years. When it does increase, it is much more apt to spread in the texture in which it was originally formed, than to propagate itself amongst some other strnc-319 ture. When once it begins to increase, it spreads most rapidly in that direction where the resistance is least, and therefore on the lace it soon comes to form a prominent irre- gular tumour. If the eyelid be interested, we not only have an external tumour, but the disease penetrates into the orbit, and presses upon the eye. The pulsation of such a tumour is at first slight and indistinct, but if there be many arteries, it presently becomes very manifest, and is increased by eveiy exertion. In proportion to the degree of action, so is the feeling of distention; and when in a state of activity, the tumour feels hot, sometimes pretty acutely painful. In its ordinary condition, however, the sensation is rather that of uneasy throbbing than of pain ; but in particular circum- stances, both the tumour itself and all the neighbouring parts may be very painful, especially when the tumour is under a fascia. By repeated exacerbations, particular points come to project like tubercles; these are tender, more livid than the rest of the surface, and presently come to burst, discharging more or less blood. Coagulation stops the hemorrhage, and presently the orifice is covered with a scab. But the first renewal of excitement displaces this, or a new point bursts, and thus, by repeated and excessive hemorrhages, the patient is carried off. His death is often accelerated by pain and constitutional irritation. The venous differs from the arterial in its colour, which is a dark purple, inclining to blue, like a ripe grape. But when the covering is very thin, the hue is sometimes redder. It never pulsates, but when the vessels are excited, it becomes tense It is neither hot nor painful. It feels cold and flabby and the sensation on touching it has been aptly compared to handling the wattlings of a turkey. It can be emptied by pressure, and then its remains have a doughy feel. When tlie pressure is removed, it is slowly refilled. It is perhaps as apt to spread as the arterial, but is longer of bursting, and len it does, the haemorrhage is more easily restrained, variety of this is produced by the presence of a heater piopoition of cellular substance than of vessels, so that it cannot e made to disappear, or sometimes even lessen much3(20 by pressure. If situated, as it often is, on the forehead, or under a fascia, it is elastic, seems to contain a fluid, and much resembles an encysted tumour, but if punctured nothing but blood flows. We must not confound these tumours with the superficial discoloration of the skin, known under the name of naevus maternus. This has its seat in the retiform texture, or rete- mucosum, and often depends merely on a peculiarity in the colouring matter, which resembles claret more or less diluted. When the colour is brown, the patch is called a mole. In many instances the red patch is distinctly produced by a congeries of vessels containing red blood, although occupying the situation of the capillary system. It may therefore be supposed nearly allied to the disease we have been consider- ing ; but it is neither prominent nor deep, nor does it extend laterally, except in proportion with the growth of the part where it is seated. It seems to be dependant merely on an unusual size, but not a diseased state ol the vessels. If these neevi ever end in tumour, it is of the venous kind. It has been-proposed to cure these by the continued application of cold water; but this never succeeds. Pressure is as unsuc- cessful, unless it be steadily applied to such an extent as to alter the organization, or obliterate the vessels. Effective application of caustic is the most certain mean; but it must be considered whether the scar it leaves would be more or less unseemly than the disease to be removed. When the placentary tumour, or aneurism by anastomosis, forms under a fascia, we are deprived of the diagnostic marks taken from its external appearance. There is some degiee of tension or swelling of the part, varying according to the degree of activity of the vascular system ; a sensation ot throb- bin^ and of pain in proportion to the sensibility of the parts in the vicinitv. These diagnostics are indeed somewhat obscure, and the real nature of the disease may not be discovered for a long time; but whenever we find a tumour varying according to the activity of the vascular system, and attended with heat and throbbing, we should be on our guard. The nature of such a form of the disease is well illustrated by a case which321 occurred to me many years ago, and which was published by my brother. The gentleman, who was advanced in life, had long complained of pain and throbbing about the head, on which account the temporal artery was opened : repeated hemorrhages took place from the wound, which had in vain been attempted to be restrained by pressure and ligatures. When I saw him, the temporal artery was pulsating strongly, the wound was occupied with a pulsating tumour of a purple colour, which could easily be made to diminish by pressure, but was instantly re-filled when that was removed, and a small stream of arterial blood was then ejected from it. An attempt was made to remove this diseased organization, and expose the sound trunk of the vessel, but it was found that the diseased texture occupied a greater extent than was expected; it affected almost the whole of the temporal muscle, passing undei the zigoma, and firmly bound down by the temporal aponeurosis. Every part of the structure poured out blood like a sponge. It was cleared away with the knife, even under the zygoma, as completely as could be prudently done, without resorting to a ligature on the carotid artery. But to prevent still farther the risk of regeneration, strong pressure was made on the surface of the cavity, by thrusting in a sponge, and using a roller. This proved effectual, and the gentleman lived for some years without experiencing a return of this disease. Different modes of treatment have been proposed; for instance, we have advised to destroy the part with caustic, and wheie the disease is incipient, not larger than a pimple, and particularly .when it is of the venous kind, this plan will be found in general effectual, provided the alkaline caustic be * used. The continued application of cold water or ice, has been expected to contract, and ultimately to obliterate the vessels, but very little dependance can be placed on this remedy! lessuie is more likely to obliterate the tumour, provided it can be steadily and efficiently applied. Even in the most avourable circumstances, however, in the superficial parts W leie a k°ne below affords counter-resistance, we seldom succeed, and if we fail to cure, we are sure to exasperate. On Y322 the same principle of acting on the vessels, it has been pro- posed to tie the arterial trunk supplying the part, for example, when the disease occupied the orbit and eyelids, to tie the carotid artery; but as yet we have too few instances of success to authorize us in forming a decided opinion. When we consider the free anastomosis which exists between the vessels of both sides of the face, and with some of the branches of the internal carotid, we should not be very sanguine in our expectation of a cure by tying one great vessel. Still, there are cases where the trial must be made, or the patient must be left to die; as, for instance, when the tumour is seated extensively in the fauces, velum, and roof of the mouth. The most effectual plan, when it can be accomplished, is to dissect the tumour completely away. If we cut into any part of the texture, we are sure to have an ungovernable haemorrhage from a multitude of points, but if we cut completely beyond it, we have only the individual arteries, which supply the tumour, to attend to. It is clear, from the description given of the tumour, that unless when it is under a fascia, wTe can save no part of the integuments which cover it, and therefore must leave the wound to heal by granulation, unless in those cases where we can, without producing greater deformity, draw the lax skin together so as to produce a cure by adhesion. When many vessels feed the tumour and cannot easily be controlled, it might, in delicate patients, particularly in chil- dren, be dangerous' to attempt the extirpation by dissection ; and tying individual branches previous to the removal of the tumour, can have little influence on the general loss of blood to be sustained, and still less can the ligature of these vessels be trusted to as a mean of obliteration. In such cases, thrust- ing two long needles at right angles to one another, across the substratum of the tumour in sound substance, and then twisting a ligature tightly round the base, beyond these needles, may destroy it. But if such a tumour be situated on the cheek, it must be considered whether the needles must not be carried so deep as to leave little more than the membrane of the mouth beyond them, which in that case must inevitably slough, and leave a large opening. When deformity is not323 to be considered, and the tumour can be quickly removed, but the vessels cannot easily be got at to be tied, the actual cautery may with advantage be substituted for the ligature. SECTION FIFTH. The next tumour I shall notice is still more varied in its texture from the natural structure. It may be called the granulated tumour, irom its resembling a compressed mass of giains of a white or grayish colour, amongst which we some- times meet with one or more cysts filled with a fluid as black as ink. So far as I have seen, no cells are formed containing bloody fluid. W hen I describe it as granulated, I do not mean that it does actually consist of a packet of distinct giains, but merely that the section is not smooth, and the substance apparently homogeneous, but something like sha- green. When such a tumour is laid hold of by the two hands, it breaks readily if it be large, and the fracture, as the mineralogists call it, exhibits the rough granulated surface which I have described. The shape is generally irregular; ■but when large, pretty uniform nodules are observable. The pain is seldom acute; but when inflammation is excited there is lancinating pain, and the health suffers from fever and irritation. Suppuration is not very apt to take place, but even without this the neighbouring lymphatics and glands may come to swell; and there are instances where the lym- phatic glands have formed a mass of disease much larger than the original tumour. When by suppuration or abrasion the tumour is exposed, it does not ulcerate nor fungus sprout out, as is often supposed, but the surface of the tumour remains excoriated, and grows or swells, so that it projects like an excrescence, but is not a fungus by ulceration. It is a mere growth of the tumour, and the edges of this excoriation may come to be covered with cuticle. This stage often passes for cancel, and the surface is called a cauliflower fungous excres- cence by those who look only superficially at the case. It is indeed an excrescence, but it is one produced by mere en aigement of the tumour on that point where there is least824 resistance, which is altogether different from vegetation or fungous granulation. It is doubtful whether this structure which I have described exist from the commencement of the tumour. I am satisfied that, at least in many instances, the tumour is originally of a simple nature, such as I have described in the first, but parti- cularly in the second section. More albumen and gelatin seems to enter into the composition, and a rougher and more granulated aspect is exhibited. This disease usually begins in a conglomerate gland; for instance the submax- illary, or one of those in the breast. When it begins in the submaxillary, the thyroid, or any of the deep-seated lymphatic glands of the neck, the patient is sure at last to have a very extensive disease. One universal, although not uniform, tumour, occupies all the space from the angle of the jaw to near the clavicle, perhaps crosses over to the other side of the neck. It is firmly bound down by the fascia and the superficial muscles; it involves every thing of a glandular structure in the whole tract. It surrounds the great vessels and the par vagum, and forms an intimate connexion with*, the sympathetic nerve. Under these circumstances it is not wonderful that the patient should grow rapidly worse. His pulse becomes quicker, his appetite fails; even if it did not, the difficulty of swallowing increases; sometimes he also breathes with difficulty, he has headach, and tempoiaiy fits resembling apoplexy. When such a tumour first appeals, we should anticipate the approach of these evils, and whilst it is yet in our power, remove a tumour which afterwards we dare not touch. In the breast it appears at first of the size of a hazel nut, but on cutting into it, it is found to be both larger and deeper than it appeared to be. This kind of tumour also may affect the penis, and I am not sure that it is not the most frequent kind of disease which passes for cancer of that part. It begins like a small tumour or soft wart, gene- rally at the corona glandis, and grows, especially if irritated by caustic and stimulants, so as to resemble a fungous or cauliflower ulcer. It is not, however, a granulating or325 fungating structure, but a mere morbid growth, a tumour without skin, and with a very thin cuticle, through which, when it exists, there transpires serous fluid. Around it, is an indurated margin. There is stinging pain, but it is long, if ever, before the glands be affected by the disease. When it is examined we find it to be of the firm granulated texture, but wanting the septa of cancer. It is circumscribed, and the morbid texture ends abruptly, so that we may, if it do not encroach too much on the canal of the urethra, dissect it olf, if we think that plan is to be better than an amputation. A vaiiety of this kind of tumour often is met with in the cancelli, 01 between the layers of bones. It begins with an ash-coloured deposition, somewhat like coagulated albumen; then it becomes gray, and the section is rough, the bone enlaiges, and perhaps is absorbed, and a tumour appears exactly as in a soft part. This is often met with in the lower jaw, as well as in the antrum. The plates of the bone are greatly separated or destroyed, the gum is morbid, and a laige mass is produced, with a suppurating, not a granu- lating surface. When such a tumour forms in the cancelli of a bone covered with skin, &c. as, for instance, the humerus, it acquires a large size without suppurating, and undergoes but little change except in augmentation, till the skin over it inflame and suppurate, or slough and cause its exposure. This kind of tumour is generally called osteosarcoma, but is doubtless susceptible of many modifications. It is often con- nected with a scrofulous diathesis, but is not very apt to affect the neighbouring glands. Tumours of this kind affect- mg the jaw, for instance, must not be confounded in an advanced stage with those which originated in the gum, and which, contrary to these tumours, fungate and contaminate e g ands. 1 hey begin with a ragged appearance of the margin of the gum; the jagged points are swollen, and seem to be more gelatinous and albumenous. The surface becomes irregular like shagreen, and small tumours form, having an «s«Slt:rrtly to little cysts of bi°°^ ^ sends r ' rllls ProJectIon> or tumour, bursts and ■ a soft fungus, and bloody fetid serous fluid or dis-charge, along with the saliva. The health declines early, and at this stage is very much impaired. It is a fatal complaint if not early eradicated. It is not sufficient to cut offj even when it can be done, the excrescence, for it is speedily repro- duced, but the surface must be destroyed from which it springs, or even part of the bone removed. I do not mean to consider at present polypous tumours in the nose or antrum, but when speaking of tumours about the gum and mouth, merely notice, that a simple tumour consisting of much albumen may form on tbe mucous membrane, which generally remains long innocent; but either in the nostril or antrum it may change its character, it becomes harder, moi’e organized, and involves the neighbouring parts, so that the bones become diseased, and are absorbed, and one or more fungi shoot out, at the same time that the lymphatic glands swell. It is fatal if not eradicated. Another modification of albumen is met with in the antrum, being like soft cheese, and very foetid. This also affects the bones. It should be scooped out, and the surface of the antrum cauterized. All these tumours become hard by boiling. No medicine has any control over these tumours, and it is worse than a waste of time to try any to the neglect of a timely operation. SECTION SIXTH. Another tumour much resembling this, is a little more compact, less distinctly granulated, and more like a texture intermediate between gland and cartilage, somewhat gelati- nous in its cut surface, and without the septa of cancer. If we make a section of this tumour, which may, for instance, have formed in the breast, we find that it generally ends abruptly, and is not lost gradually in the surrounding sub- stance, but there is no capsule. The surface is hard, firm, somewhat nodulated, and has no septa. The colour is a shade redder than the sound breast, particularly near the circum- ference of the tumour. Small streaks of vessels are seen in different places, and, elsewhere, red spots, from the division of vessels. Presently cavities appear, but these are not cysts.327 This kind of tumour may affect the same parts, and follows in all respects the same course with the former variety. Like it, it does not ulcerate or fungate, but it often foi'ms irregular pro- jections, which are found in different stages: at one part we find a tumour like a pile or haemorrhoid, of a venous colour, and covered with thin skin; at another we find a larger one, with its surface more abraded, and also more irregular and mottled; whilst in a third the skin over a projection may have given way, by a species of suppuration; a serous or bloody fluid in that case is discharged, and the substance of the tumour expands by growth, which gives it the appearance of fungus at that part where it is exposed. But I need scarcely repeat that there is a material difference between an expansion or growth of the tumour at that part where there is least resistance, and a building up by, or sprouting of, exuberant granulations, the subjacent tumour meanwhile remaining the same. The only difference between this tumour and the former is, that we find on cutting it, that it contains cavities of different sizes. They have no distinct capsule, but rather appear like excavations in the tumour, and cannot be looked upon as cysts. They are filled with a bloody fluid of a foetid smell; their internal surface is of an a^h colour, and appears as if smeared with mucus. As soon as these cavities are formed, perhaps even earlier, the tumour has an elastic feel, like spongoid tumour. Before the skin become discoloured, the neighbouring lymphatic glands are sometimes affected, and the health always suffers; but it fails still more rapidly after the tumour is exposed, for then both the pain and the fever increase. When this tumour com- mences about the orbit, which it sometimes does, we find a little more water in the ventricles than usual, which must accelerate death. The optic nerve loses its proper texture, but does not become black. The ophthalmic artery is much enlarged. When this tumour begins in the lachrymal gland, the eye is soon protruded, vision is lost, but not by partici- pating m the diseased organization. Nothing but the knife can be of the least service in this disease; and we must have recourse to it early. When the lachrymal gland is attacked,328 we might suppose that a speedy removal might save the eye, but in every instance which I have seen, the disease was so far advanced, as to require the orbit to be completely cleared. It is well if it have not extended to the cheek; or, the floor of the orbit being absorbed, into the antrum. A tumour of this nature, or of the granulated kind, may form originally in the antrum, constituting one species of a very formidable disease, the farther consideration of which I shall postpone until I treat of the diseases of the antrum. Mr. Abernethy describes, under the name of tuberculated sarcoma, a tumour which I have either not seen or not recog- nized, and therefore must describe on his authority. It affects chiefly the lymphatic glands of the neck, but may also appear in the liver, &c. It consists of an aggregation of roundish tumours, of a colour varying from yellowish to brownish red, and of a size from a pea to a horse bean ; it is disposed to form a painful phagedenic sore, with very nau- seous smell; numerous small tubercles form over the trunk, or other parts, these are hard and painful. No remedy is known, and the disease proves fatal. SECTION SEVENTH. Another tumour, which for want of a better term is called cystic—the cystic sarcoma of Mr. Abernethy, affects the thyroid and other glands; but especially the male testicle and female ovarium. In the latter case it is very improperly denominated dropsy of the ovarium. The gland itself has its texture universally changed, becoming firmer, and in some places almost of a cartilaginous appearance. Very soon, throughout the whole texture, numerous cysts appear, which seem made up of a firm membraneous substance; their surface is secreting, and the fluid yielded is generally albumenous, sometimes of a yellow colour, sometimes pellucid. These cysts increase, but in a very unequal degree, one acquiring a much larger size than the rest. This is the case even in the testicle, but in the ovarium it is still more remarkably so, one cyst acquiring a magnitude one hundred times greater than all the rest together. The consistence of the contents issometimes very thick and viscid, at other times it is thin like that of serum. The appearance is also different even of dif- ferent portions of the same cyst, which we can only explain from a difference of gravity, or from their being immiscible. The secretion may be like oil or melted jelly, or firm and tremulous like size, or clear and thin like water, or contain- ing lumps of coagulated albumen, exactly like the yolk or white of eggs, or both. Some of these secretions, which might be fluid during life, must be found coagulated after death, and therefore such a tumour when cut will be found more solid than when the patient was alive. Coagulated blood may also be found in the cysts. The internal surface of the cyst never, so far as I have seen, ulcerates; but in one, and only one instance, I have found a very large cyst in the ovarium, studded over with numerous large papillae, like those in the gravid uterus of a cow. The skin over one particular part of the enlarging tumour may inflame, and give way by slouch and suppuration; then the tumour protrudes somewhat, and assumes an appearance of fungus. But this is very rare, and generally the patient dies from irritation, or what has been called cachexia, before any exposure of the tumour takes place. When the testicle is affected, hydrocele is a very frequent com- bination. The lymphatic glands of the groin are rarely affected. No lemedy is of the smallest avail in this disease wherever it is situated. Particular symptoms, or adventitious attend- ants may, no doubt, to a certain extent, be palliated; but we have no more power of procuring the removal or absorption of the diseased structure, than we have of getting rid of the oigan itself in which it is seated. Iodine, mercury, and various other means, have been proposed, but they only pass the time, and benefit the apothecary. When the disease is seated in a part which admits of extirpation, this is the only remedy, and the sooner it is resorted to the better; when it is not, we may palliate by tapping the largest cyst. „ SECTION EIGHTH. I he next tumour to be noticed affects indiscriminately all ages, and perhaps I might say every texture. It is, however,330 most frequently met with in glandular organs. It begins as » elastic swelling, which communicates to the feel the idea that a fluid is contained under a firm fascia, or resembles that which would be communicated by a sponge very tightly tied up in a bladder, on which account I have called it sponmAd tumour. When pressed with the finger, the point yields a bttle, but rebounds with elasticity when pressure is removed; no fluctuation, however, is discovered in a large tumour, but merely an elasticity of individual points. This is a circum- stance which in this and other much less formidable diseases, indicates not the existence of matter, but merely of a very tense state oi the skin produced by a firm but compressible swelling of the parts below the swelling, or a lymphatic packing between it and the skin, as I have noticed on a former occa- sion. Some parts of the tumour feel firmer and harder than others, but the surface of the tumour is at first in general equal. Some degree of pain, generally shooting, some- times deep and gnawing, is early perceived; presently the suiface becomes unequal, and projects at one or more points; these soon become discoloured, and now, if not earlier, the lymphatic glands in the course of the absorbents, become somewhat enlarged, the projections become more prominent, redder, or more purple, the skin gives way by a species of sloughing or abrasion, and the tumour soon sprouts out, and at the same time its exposed surface discharges a bloody serum. This surface, which is very vascular, becomes covered, more or less completely, with an ash-coloured kind of lymph. It dischaiges much thin, red, or saffron-coloured serous fluid, whilst the vessels, particularly the veins, often discharge pure blood. A laige tumour may have several of these exposed exciescences, which, passing for bloody fungi, things which bave no existence in any disease, have procured for this tumour, from Mr. Hay, the name of fungus hsematodes. Such excres- cences are not fungous growths by granulation, but protru- sions consequent to the expansion of the tumour; they are elevated like a cauliflower beyond the tumour; they are soft to the feel; and this decided elevation, this softness, the elasti- city of the tumour, and the absence of general hardness, at331 once distinguish the disease from cancer. The skin for a little way around the projections is inflamed, perhaps slightly excoriated, the discharge increases, and becomes foetid, pei’haps haemorrhage becomes more frequent, the pain increases, the health suffers greatly, the patient wasting away, till worn out by suffering and increased debility, life be destroyed. If the disease be long protracted, the lymphatic glands swell greatly, and assume the appearance of the original tumour. By dissection, the tumour is found to be made up of various compartments of different sizes and shapes, formed by the intersections of a membranous substance. The smaller com- partments, which we suppose to be those of most recent formation, are filled with grayish, soft substance, at first sight resembling the foetal brain, but on more minute examination it seems of a more cellular or organized texture. The larger, or what may be considered the more advanced compartments, contain a bloody substance, sometimes fluid, sometimes solid like coagulum, or intermixed with brainular albumenous substance, so as to give such portions of the section a mottled appearance like jasper. At those parts where the tumour felt externally hard, the indurations are found to proceed from a thickening of the intersections. The muscles in the vicinity become converted into a substance like liver, and the bones become soft and spongy. There is no part of the body exempt from attack of this disease, and it may often, but not always, be traced to external violence. The first case which I ever saw of it was consequent to a bruise; but it is most frequently met with in the female breast, the uterus, the testicle, the eye, &c. In the brain I have met with it, forming numerous tumours of various sizes, and resembling jasper. From the account I have given of the complaint, there can be no difficulty in recognizing it, and its appeai’ance is much the same in every organ. Even the eye, which is frequently affected with it, acquires the same texture. The optic nerve loses its colour, and becomes black like boiled or grumous blood. This affection of the eye begins, as in other parts of the body, with a tense swelling, a speedy alteration of all the internal parts, an opacity of the cornea, and a livid redness of332 ut thf1 geDer, ’ "0t tl,e redness of simple inflammation, Ut the deeper and extena.ve look of the coats being converted into a uniform red texture; then, irregularities take place abrasion succeeds, the tumour expands, as in other example.: t " * From first to last there is much pain, often inten^he^ and before death the bones become affected, and the disease spreads to the brain. The eyelids sometimes participate in svvdl °mp aint’ and the glaUdS at the angle °f the Jaw Presently This is one of the most formidable diseases we are acquainted ’ no medicine, no regimen, no plan of treatment what- evei, has the smallest control over it. It is worse than folly to postpone for a single instant, an operation, after the nature of the complaint is ascertained. I grant that the diagnosis is not always easy at first; it may be mistaken for a deep sup- puration, or an encysted tumour, but if a puncture be made to let out the supposed fluid, only a few drops of bloody serum are discharged, and very soon an excrescence protrudes. When we are doubtful, then, as to the nature of the tumour, a small puncture should at once be made, and we ought m be prepared, if necessary, immediately to remove the disease. Nothing but an early and complete extirpation can afford the smallest hope of life. When the disease is seated on a limb we should rarely undertake its excision, but at once perform amputation. Cancer is a dreadful disease, but this is worse, for relapses are still more frequent. When we operate, we must always be careful to go completely beyond the seat of the disease. If we expose a muscle, and find it in any degree altered in its texture, we do nothing if we do not remove completely every thing which has the slightest appearance of disease. There are very few instances, I believe, of perma- nent success attending operations performed after excrescences had taken place. SECTION NINTH. The next tumour to be described has been called scirrhus,333 from its peculiar hardness; carcinoma, or cancer, from some fancied resemblance to a crab. There is perhaps no part of the body where it may not originate, but it is chiefly met with in secreting organs, and of these, oftenest in the breast, next to that in the cervix uteri, the under lip, and the male testicle. In the breast it begins with enlargement, and induration of one of the glands, which becomes harder and more irregular than formerly. At first the swelling is small, but if the disease have been preceded by some previous injury, such as a blow, or the new organization be consequent to a milk abscess, there may for a long time have been an indolent swelling, comparatively soft; and in such a case, when scirrhus does take place, it is large from its first appearance. In some cases the disease is for a long time, or altogether, confined to the gand originally affected; in other cases the neighbouring parts early suffer, and the disease ultimately affects the whole breast. There is at first, perhaps, little or no pain, and the disease is only recognized by induration and enlargement, n other instances there is very early a stinging pain, which becomes more frequent and severe as the disease continues. ie gland for a length of time is moveable, and does not adhere to the skin; it feels hard, heavy, and knobbed, and usually, but not uniformly, secretes a kind of lymph, varvino- from a pellucid fluid to one of a red or brownish colour which is discharged by the nipple. After some time the tumour seems to come nearer the surface, and the skin adheres to it, so that it no longer plays freely over it; then the skin c langes its texture somewhat, becomes more shining, whiter as well as denser; next it becomes puckered, and then when the n i egulanties of the tumour project considerably, it assumes enher a leaden or dull red colour. The nipple is usually very early retracted, and at length almost buried, under the skin bull only one tumour may be discernible externally, and that may be moveable; but in other instances it adheres to the uscle below, very soon after it has formed an adhesion with the S r r T SCTly ^ m°Ved- OT’ th0U§h this aclhesio,: that it all P 6’ " e b‘eaSt 1>aS beC0,ne 80 involved, “ a“ m°VeS as °ne solid The veins by this tin,; o mliave become varicose, sometimes to such an extent, as to account for the fanciful comparison of the disease to a crab. When the whole breast becomes uniformly hard and greatly enlarged, I have seldomer found it form irregular projections, than when the tumour remains more circumscribed ; but, on the contrary, the skin seems more extensively to have received the disease. This assumes a whiter or more opaque appearance, is thicker, and its areola are whiter and firmer; it plays less freely over the subjacent parts, indeed it is usually intimately adherent to them. An indistinct appearance of septa or whiter lines may be observed extending irregularly in the skin. Then we find it studded with numerous tubercles, or livid eminences, which slowly become abraded,forming many sores, foul, excavated, and with hard retorted edges; these at first are small, and for a time keep distinct, but at last run together, and a large superficial cancerous sore is produced. In this case death often takes place before the glands below become in any degree exposed, and the person dies more directly from the cancer of the skin than from the disease of the mammary substance; but in far the greater number of instances the skin is not affected otherwise than by inflamma- tion propagated from below, and subsequent suppuration or destruction, and these tubercles may never appear over the breast. In the ordinary progress, one or more of the irregu- larities, or knobs, of the tumour, project to a greater degree, and the skin at the part becomes inflamed. When it is touched with the finger, it feels soft and somewhat elastic, as if a fluid were contained; the surface becomes very early of a deep red colour, which becomes darker or more purple as the integuments become thinner, then the thinnest part opens by a species of sloughing, and a bloody fluid is emitted. The more pointed part of the projection then subsides, but the general size is scarcely lessened, the orifice enlarges, and an open sore is at last produced. This is excavated, and the edges speedily become hard and irregular. They form a distinct margin, somewhat prominent, more or less in breadth around the sore; and on which numerous veins are observed running parallel to one another, in the direction of radii from335 a centre. The aspect of the sore itself is not always the same. In some instances, the edges turn outwards, from the circum- ference of the exposed part of the tumour becoming elevated, as it were, by a deep or internal growth, whilst the more central part exhibits more the process of destruction, that is, of excavation. I he whole surface, however, is destroying more or less rapidly, but the parts below are protruding one pait moie than another. In this situation, the sore has some- what the appearance of a flower, or has been compared to a cauliflower ; but the truth is, that the whole arises from the rising up or protrusion of the surface of the opened cyst, w'lnch becomes in a slight degree retorted; the appearance, therefore, of fungous exuberance is altogether fallacious, and is produced much more by the growth of the parts connected with the exposed cyst than from the cyst itself. Where these paits do not immediately enlarge, or enlarge in such a way as not to be productive of this effect, the margins rather fall in, the skin comes to contract, the whole volume of the sore is lessened, and the aspect becomes less frightful; or an inter- mediate state may be met with, where there is neither a falling in nor a retortion of the edges, but the sore remains for a long time shallow, and comparatively flat. A cancerous sore thus produced by the opening of a cyst is generally, in so far as it is itself concerned, slow in its progress; it may remain or months, it has been known for years, almost stationary. The progress of a cancer, and the extension of the mischief, arise more from the changes going on in other parts of the tumour, than from those of the first sore, although certainly these are not to be overlooked. The discharge, when the cyst first gives way, is generally like bloody serum ; presently it becomes yellower, or of a brownish colour, whilst the surface of the sore is covered with patches of ash-coloured stuff; the smell of the discharge is peculiar, and may be called foetid. is soie not being of the granulating or ulcerative nature, . rathLer of the ^PPurative, we are not to be surprised, that as in ot ici sores called depascent, the vessels should come to fr6 : haemorrhages> therefore, more or less frequent, take P ‘ > sometimes to such an extent as greatly to weaken thepatient, and even to hasten dissolution. The pain attending a cancerous sore varies both in its nature and degree; generally it is of the burning kind, and acute glowing sensations seem to dart from the part in various directions, quick like the gleam of the aurora borealis. The patient compares the pain to the effect of a burning coal; but in other cases the pain is rather teasing than extreme, and torments more by its constancy than by its severity. It has been remarked, that when the disease gets the length of an open sore, it does not make the same progress as before, in a given time, but may remain nearly stationary for months, or a year or two, though the disorder be advancing in other parts which have been con- taminated. In the course of the disease, sometimes very early, the lymphatic glands and intervening lymphatics become diseased; those in the axilla are most frequently and most readily affected, but those above the clavicle and by the side of the sternum may also swell. The size acquired is vari- able, but seldom great, a mass apparently large being not made up of one gland, but of many smaller ones matted together. When the glands are considerably or generally indu- rated, the lymphatics of the arm cannot do their duty. Either from an obstruction to the passage of the lymph through the glands, or by a propagation of inflammation downwards along the lymphatics, the arm swells, the skin and cellular substance become tense, and the surface, particularly near the shoulder, and sometimes near the breast, becomes red or pink coloured. The arm is painful; sometimes, from pressure on the nerves, powerless. Similar causes may produce swelling of the neck and face, or some way down the side. It is quite impossible to determine by external examination the size or number of the affected glands, for they are so bounded and defended by the fascia of the armpit, that when there seems only one small gland enlarged, and even that one has only been discovered after careful examination, we find, on cutting the fascia, a chain of glands, some of them by no means small, extending high in the axilla. The constitution sooner or later suffers. The face be- comes sallow, and the whole skin has a dirty bloodless hue, and sometimes, particularly in the visage, a waxy look is observable.837 8 he strength tides not sink rapidly, but gradually, and none of die functions are decidedly injured at an early period. The organ which first seems to suffer is the stomach, or those viscera connected with digestion. Hence acidity is apt to prevail, alternated with bilious symptoms, and often with urticaria, or at least general itchiness. After an open sore is foi med, the strength sinks faster, particularly if haemorrhages take place, or it there be wearing out pain. The emaciation then becomes considerable, the pulse frequent, and there is at times a hectic flush, with thirst, and almost always decay of appetite. This state ends either in gradual sinking, and life ceases like an expiring tapei’, or the patient becomes coma- tose ,• 01. when the breast is affected, the disease may spread inwards, so that the lungs are affected, in which case serous effusion is generally met with, and to the other distresses we have added difficulty of breathing, and paroxysms of asthma. There may be distinct and very considerable hectic fever, or there may be little : the patient rather sinking under cachexia, as that lingering and wearing out condition, arising from a vitiated frame, has been called by nosologists. This is espe- cially the case when an operation has been performed, but the skin and glands have retained the disease. The pulse, perhaps, till very near the end, is unaffected, otherwise than by weakness; the strength decreases, the nights are passed without sleep, the appetite is lost, the pulse becomes intermittent, the extremities cold, and the mind wavering, the breathing oppressed, and the patient in a manner sleeps into death. r When we examine the structure* of a cancerous tumour, * If we boil a cancerous tumour in water, it becomes still harder more contracted and whiter, like coagulated albumen. M. Monn, in the Journ. de Pharmacie, September 1822, p. 415 gives an analysis of thiee different substances found in a cancerous tumour. 1st the'product of suppuration, which is described as having been solid vel- owis in colour, and small in quantity. It turned syrup of violets green and con.^tci of free ammonia, coagulated albumen, hydrosulphuret of ammo- nia, an a at matter. 2d, A reddish pultaceous substance of a fetid smell It consisted of free ammonia, much phosphate of lime, albumen, chloride of z338 e find that the substance is indurated like cartilage, but ten cut lias not the smooth glossy surface of that fabric. It lather grayer tn colour, and somewhat rougher in its appear- ance w.th strong membranes, or almost gristly looking septa, ° '"Jettons stretching m an irregular direction from some part, generally from the point where the disease commenced; for cancer beg,ns, as it were, from a nucleus, whence it extends o, radiates m every d.rection. These septa sometimes give to the sect,on a strong resemblance of the arbor vita, in the ceiebellum. Besides these septa, which are always more or ess distinct, and m uncertain number, we find numerous cysts interspersed through the whole substance, and in differ- ent degrees of progress. These, in a former work, I too oosely styled abscesses, but they are cysts composed of firm exture, almost fibro-cartilaginous. They are found of dif- erent sizes, or in various degrees of progress. At first they are neither empty, nor filled with fluid, but with solid sub- stance, and ore discovered by the segment of the cyst beimz of a white colour, whilst the interior is filled with softer, or more glandular looking substance of a gray or brownish red colour. 1 hey at first are not larger than a pin head, but gradually potassium and sodium, hydrochlorate of ammonia, oszimzome, and gelatin. 3d, A whitish sebaceous matter, consisting of albumen, oszmazome, cerumi- nous matter, and much phosphate of lime. Some other experiments make the tumour consist chiefly of albumen, with a smaller proportion of gelatin and sebaceous' matter. My illustrious colleague Dr. Thomson has examined a specimen of cancerous breast, and given me the following notes—1st It is soluble m strong nitric and muriatic acids. 2d, It is insoluble in sul- phuric acid, but assumes a reddish brown colour. 3d, In diluted nitric or muriatic acid, it does not dissolve, but becomes yellow in the first, and pale pink m the second, and buff coloured in diluted sulphuric acid 4th In strong caustic potash lee, it swells a little, remains white, assumes’the appearance of mucus, but does not dissolve. 5th, In acetic acid, it remains nearly unaltered. He adds, that the characters of the cutis resemble very- much those of the mammae. Long ago, Dr. Crawford noticed that, the secretion of a cancerous sore turned the syrup of violets green, and when mixed with sulphuric acid, evolved a gas similar to sulphuretted hydrogen, and which he imagined was’ before this decomposition, combined with ammonia, but his opinion has been disputed.339 enlarge, and in the same proportion the contained substance becomes more spongy, or pulpy and redder, until at length the centre of this soft substance is filled with bloody fluid. I he proportion of the fluid gradually increases as the cyst enlarges, and at last the inner surface of the cyst seems to be only lined or coated over with the glandular looking red pulp, and it is this enlargement of the cyst which constitutes what has been called the cancerous abscess. There are, there- fore, in a tumour of considerable duration, many cysts in dif- ferent degrees of progress, some just distinct, others large, and covered perhaps only with inflamed skin ready to break. The fluid is generally bloody, but that may be adventitious, for it is also found lymphatic or transparent. The two pro- minent characters of the texture are a rough gristly looking substance, with white intersections more or less distinct, and the existence of cysts imbedded in this. Some able men do not consider cysts as essential to the disease, as, for instance, Mr. Carmichael, who contends merely for the essentiality of the gristly texture. I am not prepared to prove that cysts invariably exist in true cancel*, but many examinations enable me to say that they are rarely, if ever, absent. I have found the general aspect of scirrho-cancer without cysts, and without stria?, and the lymphatic glands contaminated, but still, although the nature be malignant, and extirpation indispensable, I am not disposed to admit the tumour to be genuine cancer, although it be as dangerous. It has been described by others as a character of cancer, that if we cut the tumour, the section is at first smooth, but presently prominences appear on the suiface by the contraction of the cysts pressing out a yellow greenish fat. It is not always easy for spectators to agree in description or comparison, but to me the contents certainly have not a fatty appearance, but are rather like soft lymph- atic gland, or, when yellow, are like the substance forming the first species of tumour I have described. Small nodules of }ellow fatty looking substance may be met with in the can- cerous tumour, but there seems in these to be an admixture ° a umen* ifie appearance varies somewhat at different stages. At first the true carcinomatous texture is limited340 and forms a mass apparently losing itself by degrees in the sound structure. Its centre is the firmest and most gristly looking part, and from this the ligamentary septa radiate; then the gristly substance extends, and the whole carcinoma seems better defined, and in some instances would almost appear to he encysted. By this time, if not earlier, the cysts are distinct, and now advance in progress, as I have described, whilst at one or more parts we may have a round or irregular mass as large as a nut, of a colour different from all the rest, like rotten buff leather, or shamois, spongy in its feel, and from which may, by squeezing, be made to ooze brownish mucus or pus. When we cut into the lymphatic glands, which have pai’- ticipated in the disease, we find the same texture exist. Ihey become dense, and their surface, when cut, has an appearance mixed up of that of fibrin and gelatin, but studded with gra- nules of denser and rather whiter substance, which are the rudiments of cysts, for in some of these the margin is seen distinctly gristly, and the centre softer. Sometimes one white band moves longitudinally along the middle, dividing the gland into two portions. It was till lately supposed, that this contamination of the glands, as it was called, could only be produced by absorption of cancerous matter; but it has by some ingenious men been since supposed that they were affected only by the disease actually spreading along the lym- phatics to them. That the intervening lymphatic vessels may be diseased is highly probable, but there is surely no more ground for maintaining that the disease is propagated by extension or ramification, than that this happens in syphilis and other disorders, producing swelled glands. At the same time, I am not disposed to deny the possibility of this propa- gation, nor that sometimes, although not invariably, the disease fs thus communicated to the glands. But I do not admit it is the only one, perhaps not the ordinary one. In certain cases, I am satisfied that the fascia participates in and propa- gates the disease. For instance, we find that the mamma t covered with a firm fascia, which is a continuation of that of the axilla; another thinner layer extends below the341 gland, and also may be traced, if not as a distinct layer of fascia, at least as a lamina of cellular substance to the axilla. These layers are soon involved, and if the tumour be not extirpated, disease may thus be communicated both to the axilla and skin; and if in the operation the smallest portion of this diseased fascia be left, the disease is sure to return. The question of contamination of glands, as it has been called, by absorption, is not so simple as many suppose. From the first, absorption is going on; there is no period at which it does not exist; and in the first day of the existence of a cancerous texture, that texture is taken up and reproduced. But it is not perhaps for a considerable time that we discover marks of any affection of the glands. Do the lymphatics, in converting the cancerous texture into lymph, so alter its qua- lities as to prevent any risk of contamination ? And is it only the cancerous fluid, formed at first in the centre of a cyst, that resists this power of the lymphatics, and passes' on as a destructive virus to the gland ? This is, I believe, at least one way in which the evil is produced, for the vessels take up this fluid as an extraneous substance, and effect no change on it, whilst they do change the solid texture, which is still a part of the living body, and in so far (but unfortunately not far enough) under that influence of the system necessary to the preservation of the animal. Another way, perhaps not an uncommon one, is by considerable excitement of a specific or cancerous nature being produced at the extremity of the lymphatics, which by association occasions a similar action at the other end entering the gland. It has also been imagined that glands might swell from irritation, and subside when that was removed by the extirpation of the tumour. Dreadful indeed must be the fate of a patient who is treated on this principle; and granting the supposition correct in a few instances, bold must that man be who would stake the safety of a patient on such a speculation. This conceit, for I cannot give it a better name, of sympathetic swelling of the glands, cannot be too strongly reprobated by the operating surgeon, who is not entitled to leave one swelled gland, if hewish to avoid inflicting all the pain, without any of the ulti- mate benefit of an operation. I have taken my description chiefly from the disease as it affects the mamma, but the same general characters prevail in all parts, in the testicle, lips, glans penis, uterus, &c. From the uterus being less capable of being examined carefully than an external part, one disease is more apt to be confounded with another, for various malignant tumours and sores affect the cervix uteri. It has of late become fashionable to talk of extirpating the cancerous cervix, but no correct nosologist will hope for success, as it is impossible to remove all the con- taminated parts. That indolent tumours, perhaps even ulcer- ated, have been cut off with impunity, may be conceded, without admitting the most distant approach to a sanction of the operation in genuine cancel’. We distinguish a cancerous tumour from others, by its greater hardness, its slow but unremitting progress, the stinging pain which attends it, and its irregular shape; for no scirrhous tumour is ever quite uniform. When a sore is formed, it is to be recognised by the description already given. The exciting causes of this disease are such as tend to pro- duce an increase of action in the part, which gradually lays the foundation for an alteration in structure. These causes do not operate immediately in producing cancer, but do so indirectly, by exciting some degree of inflammation, or a state of the part, whatever name we may give to it, productive of a texture differing in organization from the natural one, and generally, though perhaps not always, larger in bulk. It is not necessary that the texture thus produced, should in every instance be exactly the same; it seems to be sufficient merely that it be novel, such as we find to be the result of unresolved inflammation as it is called. Flow long such a tumour, or new organization, may remain unchanged, depends on causes which we cannot always ascertain, but, to a certainty, is much influenced by the state of the constitution. Many such tumours remain' with their original organization; others assume the nature of some of the tumours already described.SiS or of scrofula, or of cancer. If the conversion of the ori- ginal tumour into one or other of these conditions was found to be always of the same nature in similar organs, we would refer the fact to be explained by the peculiar properties of the part. But the same organ may have formed in it in one person a cancerous, in another a spongoid, and in a third a scrofulous tumour. We can only explain this difference, on the principle either of peculiarity of constitution giving a predisposition, or of some peculiarity in the operation of the exciting cause. Perhaps both of these may have an influ- ence. It has, for example, been remarked, that an indura- tion consequent to a milk abscess, rarely ends in cancer, whilst one produced by a blow very often does. Certain constitutions seem also to favour the production of cancer ; as a proof of which, I may mention that I have known three sisters die owing to cancer of the breast. I know not in what this peculiarity of constitution consists, nor any mark by which it can be distinguished. A tendency to scrofula might be supposed to diminish that to cancer; but so far as I can trust my own observation, I would say that this can only be held true, when the scrofulous condition is exquisite, and that a milder degree rather favours the production of cancer. I do not wish from this to be understood as saying, that tumours which exhibited the exquisite characters of scrofula become converted into cancer, but merely that a scrofulous taint, as it has been called, rather favours than prevents the transition of an indurated gland into cancer. When a tumour, originally of the simple chronic inflammatory tex- ture, changes its nature, it generally, if not always, continues or is bound (if I may use the expression) by the election it has made, and cannot, Proteus like, change successively from one kind into another. What can determine the peculiar kind of transition of the simple tumour, it would be of great importance to be able to ascertain; but on this important and rich field for investigation there have been few labourers, and consequently we possess few facts. The time required for the conversion of what may be called the simple inflam- matory texture, into the cancerous one, is very variable. Insome cases I think it has been accomplished in a few weeks; in others, years appear to have elapsed. So far, then, as this doc- trine is admitted, it will assume as a principle, that cancer does not appear as a primary disease in parts previously sound, but requires, as some able men have believed, a previous change of texture; in other words, that it is a diseased con- dition not, properly speaking, attacking any part of the natural frame, as inflammation does, but is a disease of a new formed or adventitious part. This, however, is by no means peculiar to cancer, but is, as I have already noticed, a prin- ciple that must be extended to many other tumours. It may be supposed to militate against this opinion, that we find that after the cessation of the menses, scirrhous tumours slowly form in the breast without any exciting cause, capable of producing a previous simple induration. This, however, is quite a fallacy. In a work which I published about thirty years ago, I showed that such tumours were produced in the same way as those by an external injury ; that the uterus becom- ing inactive, in so far as menstruation was concerned, the breasts, on the principle of the sympathy of equilibrium, became excited, as if a stimulus had been directly applied, and that in a degree proportioned to the diminished excite- ment of the uterus. This communication of action does not, however, take place to the same degree in every female, nor is it always productive of disease. Some constitutional con- dition, or some particular sympathy existing between the breast and the alimentary canal, or some previous but hitherto unnoticed disorder or enlargement of an individual gland, may determine why in one case a manifest alteration or tume- faction, at first not of a cancerous nature, may take place, and in another, supposing an equal degree of excitement to be communicated from the uterus, no bad effects shall be pro- duced. We can still more clearly understand how a simple induration already existing in the breast, perhaps for some years, may at this period become farther excited, and its conversion into a cancerous tumour be effected. The cancerous tumour has a peculiar organization, and a special way of acting. It may be inquired, whether the action31.5 depend upon the texture, or the texture on the peculiarity of the action; that is to say, whether action or texture take the precedency. All must allow that cancerous action must be productive of cancerous texture, and that cancerous tex- ture must perform cancerous action. If it were necessary to come to a decision on this nice point of surgical casuistry, we should say, from what we observe in simple inflammation, that although action and organization go together, yet, change of action should rather precede the change of texture. Cancer is a peculiar action; but unless we can tell what it is, and wherein it differs from the natural action, we can gain no practical information. We are as ignorant, however, on this subject, as we are respecting the specialty of syphilitic or variolous actions. The superficial resemblance which part of the texture bears to cartilage, can lead to no useful result; for, granting the correctness of the comparison, we have it as little in our power to alter the nature of cartilage as of cancer. It is a more important consideration, at least rather more within our power of determination, to say whether cancer depend on a constitutional cause, like many cases of scrofula, or be at first purely local, like chancre. From the most careful observation which I have been able to make, cancer is generally, at first, a local disease. I must, however, qualify my expression by a farther explanation. I have already said that cancer, like many other tumours, is a secondary change, effected on a simple tumour previously existing. This change may be effected by causes acting in a great measure strictly locally on the tumour, as, for instance, by repeated excitement and irritation. I might prosecute to an extensive degree, the consideration of these local causes, but I rest satisfied with the general assent that seems to be given by medical men, to the possibility of the occurrence; and I would rather take a position founded both on the fact and on the assent, that cancer in the breast, for example, may be produced by causes purely local, and therefore may be considered in such cases, to be as strictly local as phlegmon. Next, a simple induration may be converted into cancer, not by the operation of causes purely local, nor by those thatmay in one respect be considered as on the same footing, namely, disorders of the digestive, or other distant, organs acting sympathetically on the part, but by some general pecu- liarity of the constitution, which, for want of a better term, may be called as it wont to be, the cancerous diathesis. This I would suppose the case, for example, in those instances where several members of the same family are affected, and, often perhaps, where both breasts are affected about the same time. Even, however, in these cases, we must make a dis- tinction between the cancerous diathesis or propensity, and the cancerous disease in the organ. This last is still a local disease, produced, however, by a peculiar predisposition acting on a previous change of organization. But it differs materially from the first case that we considered, in this, that the change is produced, not by pauses strictly local, but by diathesis, still that diathesis requiring a previous alteration of organization to seize upon. We may by removing early the changed or cancerous texture, bring the patient back to the state she was in before, that is, a state of diathesis, with- out an organ actually diseased. But as a person of a fero- cious temper is always ready to break out into some overt act of violence, so is this constitution always disposed to carry the first change from healthy structure in any organ, on with rapid strides to actual cancer. If I be correct in this dis- tinction of cancer into that which may be called accidental, or is dependant almost entirely on local causes, and that which sfeems to have obtained its chaiactei 'fiom a diathesis, it will be admitted that the former, at an early stage, is much less formidable than the latter, in as much, as the complete extirpation of the diseased part leaves the patient well, and without any peculiar tendency to a recurrence. We have seen, in the history of the disease, that, in every instance, the health suffers, and the constitution, either early or late, becomes diseased. This secondary effect must not be confounded with cancerous diathesis. The former is a peculiar state of cachexia, whilst the latter is merely a disposi- tion to disease; in the same way as there may be a scrofulous diathesis leading to actual tumour, productive in its turn ofhectic. Tins cancerous cachexia, however, gives diathesis, even if that did exist before, and where it is thus pro- duced, it is vain to think of operating. For, besides tbe disposition, we have a state of actual disease pervading the system. Cancer, strictly speaking, is an encysted tumour; and it is to the changes which take place in the cysts, that we are principally to attribute the danger. For the solid gristly matter though it may add to the bulk, is not the source of immediate mischief, otherwise than as serving as a nidus for the farther formation of cells. It may indeed be said, that the cysts precede and occasion the formation of the gristly substance. Of this there is no proof. But granting it to be so, I am only the more supported in affirming the cysts to be the main-spring of the disease. If, on the other hand, the previous existence of gristly structure be held necessary for the production of cysts, I must still look on it onty as the hotbed in which these are raised and brought to maturity. These cysts are supposed by some to be animals or hydatids. It is in vain to say to an advocate for this theory, that they are filled at first with puffy or solid substance more or less firm, or that they are gristly in their coats, or become gradually filled with fluid by a change going on from the centre towards the circumference. It is vain to urge any argument; hyda- tids they are called, and hydatids they must be, even if they possessed bones and arteries. Vessels they have, and they have been described (in some cases, as being larger at their extremities than in their trunks). Their osteology has not yet been described, but calcareous deposites have been noticed. W ell, if a term be to aid us, I will not quarrel with it, pro- vided that cyst and hydatid are held to be synonymous; nay, on a similar paction, I would not refuse to admit the cysts to be real cancers or crabs. Still, however, as a wicked poet said, “ Fleas are not lobsters.” Different modes of treatment present themselves: First, it may be proposed to get rid of the tumour by absorption. V'e know that a cancerous tumour is daily absorbed, but it is daily regenerated, perhaps even in a greater degree than it348 is absorbed. So long as the action remains unchanged, the deposite must be cancerous. But let us promote absorption faster than deposition can take place, and shall we not thus get rid of the disease? By applying firm, equal, and con- tinued pressure, may we not effect this purpose? No; even if we have succeeded in accomplishing the absorption of all the tumour which existed when we began, the vessels at the very boundary of the diseased structure will still continue their action, and all that we can promise to gain is, that the depo- site shall be made at a more extensive circumference than formerly. But setting aside this speculative reason, the warmest advocates for pressure cannot say that it will effec- tually do what may be accomplished much more quickly and more safely by the knife. Besides, it is almost impossible so to regulate the pressure as to prove, on the one hand, so efficient as to cause absorption of the tumour, without, on the other, producing so much excitement as shall accelerate the disease. This scheme, therefore, I believe, has now gone to the vault of all the Capulets. Next, it has been proposed to deprive the tumour of pabu- lum, by tying the arteries. If it had only one vessel which had no communication with others, this might be expected, perhaps, to prove effectual. But as the arteries freely com- municate, we can only, by tying the main vessel, diminish the tumour till the other branches enlarge. It is not of such a texture as in the meantime to change its nature; though smaller, it is still a cancer; though feebler, it is as malignant as ever. It is not like the vascular tumour, called anasto- mosing aneurism, which may have the vessels which formed it obliterated, before a fresh supply to the former degree could take place. The plan has been tried, and with the result which might be anticipated: temporary diminution of the tumour, and a subsequent augmentation, attended by all the horrors of cancer. Another proposal will be to change the action of the part; and this is the desideratum, indeed the only rational hope that can be held out, of a cure by medical treatment. Let us find out some medicine that will act on the cancerous349 action as mercury does on the syphilitic, and we shall then cure a cancer. But every candid man must admit, that this is not to be done by the use of any drug as yet employed. Cicuta, belladonna, arsenic, iron, iodine, &c. have all been tried completely, and have so completely failed, that he must be worse than simple who can now use them with expectation of success. The only reason I ever heard a sensible man give for prescribing any of these, was, “ If we don’t prescribe them, the person next consulted will.” It is thus that quackery, and the idle parade of physic is kept up, and old remedies, known to be of no avail, are persisted in, rather than inquiry made after new ones, which, if they do not succeed, at least cannot be more useless than those in fashion. But it will be said, what reply can we make to those cases which have been cured by these remedies ? the short and simple one, that they have no existence. We have, indeed, heard of instances of success, and the narrators, I doubt not, believed what they told; but it is one thing to cure a simple induration, and another to cure a cancer. I appeal to the experience of every medical man, whether I be not correct in the assertion I have made. And if these remedies had possessed any portion of their boasted power, why should our patients invariably die, or be saved only by a timely operation. I repeat that we know of no cure for cancer; and if any exist, it must be sought for, either in agents which have not yet been tried, or upon some principle which has not yet been developed. So then, it will be said, you will leave your patient without hope, a prey to misery and despair; you will stand supinely by, and see the ravages of disease, without making one effort to arrest its progress, or cheer the mind, even by the semblance of assistance. I know of no specific; but still something may be done for the benefit of a patient, who, even in a hopeless state, may have a mitigation of suffering. Cicuta, that boasted medicine, has no effect on cancer; it has no effect on any disease, unless it act as a narcotic, and this action is more ' injurious to the system when carried to the extent of allevi- ating pain, than a corresponding dose of opium, whilst it possesses, in no respect, a superiority. Arsenic is equally350 \ useless, and if given for any length of time, so as to affect the system, is sometimes productive of fatal debility. Mercury is still worse, for it never cures, and very often exasperates the disease. I object to all these specifics, as they are called, not merely because they, in one way or other, do positive mischief, but also because they prevent the patient from having recourse, in proper time, to an operation, which alone, in the present state of our knowledge, holds out any prospect of success. But if the patient will not submit to this, or if the time when it could have been performed, have been lost, what plan ought we to follow? I have already spoken of the means to be employed for promoting the absorption, or removal of a simple induration, and thus preventing a termination in cancer. But when scirrho-cancer is produced, if an operation be not performed, the only beneficial system we can follow is that which shall longest retard the progress of the disease. We cannot produce its absorption; we know nothing which can change its action; but we know well, that general stimu- lants, or local irritations, or whatever can impair the health and correctness of the system, or the action of particular sym- pathizing viscera, can accelerate the progress of the cancer. Our object, therefore, must be to improve, as far as we can, the general health, which I believe in the present instance, is chiefly to be done by moderate exercise, of such a kind as does not excite the part affected, by strict attention to diet, avoid- ing whatever is indigestible, acescent, oi stimulating, and promoting digestion, and the due action of the chylopoietic viscera, by mild laxatives, and perhaps sarsaparilla. This plan, when it branches out into the various dietetic direc- ctions which it may be necessary to give to different indivi- duals, and into the prescriptions which, though simple, may require occasionally to be changed, will surely be quite suffi- cient to obviate the objection, which I supposed to be started to my assertion, that we can prescribe nothing capable of curing a cancer, and that leaving the patient without prescrip- tion, and without advice, was leaving her without any thing which could afford a medical employment for the mind. I have made the unqualified assertion, that at present we know351 of no remedy for cancer; and when we do not operate, we can only do good by preventing it as much as possible from increas- ing. I believe that this is best effected by the simple plan propo- sed, and by guarding against any additional injury, or sudden changes of temperature. But I must make some more special remarks on certain proposals which have been made; and there may occur circumstances authorizing and requiring the use of means for their removal or abatement. Of these the most fre- quent is the accession of inflammation, either in the tumour or circumjacent texture, marked by increase of pain and gradual enlargement. Or there may be a degree of excitement and increased activity in the tumour without inflammation, marked by more pain, but no corresponding increase of temperature or of bulk. In either case, leeches may be applied, and after- wards cloths wet with cold water, may be laid on the tumour. These are fully as useful as any medicated lotion; but, like the leeches, they are only to be employed pro re nala, and neither are to be repeated unless they seem to do good. It is the practice, I am aware, to apply, at stated intervals, leeches, and to make use of what have been called discutient lotions. I hold this plan to be altogether unavailing; ->and if I be not greatly mistaken, I may go farther in stating, that it is positively hurtful. It may be of the most signal service in that more simple state of a tumour, which exists at its first appearance, and before its conversion into cancer; and I wish that both patient and practitioner could be made duly aware of the inexpressible value of the period during which that state exists. After the conversion into cancer, the obstinate and senseless reiteration of leeching can only tend to weaken the patient, and sooner break up the constitution. Another scheme to effect this, is to put the patient on a very low diet; whilst some insist also on the benefit to be derived from a liberal use of distilled water. The regimen must never stimu- late, but there ought always sufficient nourishment to be taken to keep up the strength. So far from starvation curing a cancer, it only accelerates, in the end, its progress. If carried to an extreme degree at an early stage, it no doubt produces emaciation, and by diminishing the general size of the breast,352 may deceive a speculatist, but the cancerous texture itself remains undiminished. Whilst stimulating diet would actu- ally accelerate the progress,—abstemiousness carried the length of debility, is found to be productive, though in another way, of the same result. Electricity can do only harm in the stage of cancer. In the preliminary state it may promote absorption, but is more likely to excite to mischief. Poultices of hemlock are always useless, and if applied hot, may be positively hurtful. Plasters of a slightly stimulating nature, or slices of the fat of a hog, particularly when acrid, have been also proposed. Blisters and issues near the spot, or at a greater distance, have been advised: they never can benefit, but may exasperate a genuine cancer. Nevertheless, in the preliminary stage of simple induration, they may, if very early employed, promote the absorption of the tumour when applied directly over it. In cases also at this stage, when pain rather than swelling is a prominent symptom, a small blister applied between the shoulders, and kept open for some time, has been of service. After an operation, it has been proposed in order to prevent a relapse, to make a small issue in the arm ; but in the efficacy of this I have not the smallest confidence. It lias been proposed to kill the part by freezing it, but even when it has been subjected more powerfully to destruc- tive causes than we can do by artificial agents, the disease has generally returned. Hospital gangrene has attacked it, or more extensive causes of mortification have operated, so that a tumour weighing several pounds has been separated, and yet the disease was not exterminated. No doubt the imagination can conceive, and even the judgment admit, the possibility of a rapid mortification effecting all that an opera- tion can, but still, does it do so half so well ? As for the proposal of destroying an open cancer by the application of caustic, I believe that it is so generally reprobated, that I need say nothing against it, far less need I dissuade horn such attempts being made on an incipient cancel. In the open state, or what has been called ulcerated cancer,353 our treatment, I believe, must be limited to three objects; to abate pain, to lessen fcetor, and to check haemorrhage when it occurs. There is no remedy so certainly to be depended on for the first of these purposes, as opium in some form or other. It ought, however, never to be given in larger doses or at shorter intervals than are absolutely necessary, and it generally will be found to be most effectual, when we at the same time take care to keep the bowels open. The combin- ation of opium and valerian, which I have already spoken of, is very useful; or we may use Battley’s liquor opii, beginning with fifteen drops, or such other form of opium as agrees best with the patient: other anodynes, such as cicuta, hen- bane, &c. have been employed, but are seldom of any utility. I can scarcely say, that for any length of time they can enable us even to diminish the dose of opium with which we may have combined them. I do not know of any local treat- ment, or particular dressing, which can be depended upon for allaying pain; at the same time, in different individuals one kind of dressing is found to be more comfortable than another, but this is only to be known by trial. Dry lint, lint spread with mild salves,-pledgets soaked in solution of nitrate of silver, or in water with the addition of nitrous acid, of such strength as to be barely pungent, or a fermenting poultice, or a poultice made of carrots, or of figs boiled in milk, or pledgets wet with solution of iron, or aqueous solution of opium, may all be tried, and the one which is the most comfortable be adhered to. The sore ought to be cai'efully washed at each dressing, and the frequency of the dressing ought to depend on the quantity of discharge. When the smell is very offensive, it is often lessened by sprinkling the sore with powdered charcoal, or mixing charcoal with a poultice, or applying pledgets wet with weak solution of chloride of lime. When haemorrhage occurs, it has been thought necessary to check it by the application of oil of turpentine ; but in general it is quite sufficient to apply one or two folds of dry lint to the sore, and over these a piece of soft sponge, which is to be gently but steadily pressed for some time with the hand, and then secured with a bandage, 2 A354 not too tight, but sufficiently so, to make adequate pressure. We have no means of preventing a return of haemorrhage; and therefore when we remove the sponge, and employ the former dressing, the nurse ought to be instructed how to act in the event of a recurrence. All that we can do, then, in the open state of cancer, is to palliate symptoms, and make the patient die as easily as possible. Seeing then that we have no mean of curing this disease, and sometimes scarcely of retarding its progress, I cannot too strongly press the necessity of early recourse to an opera- tion. If this be performed on the first appearance of the disease, and before the neighbouring glands and intervening lymphatics be affected, there is strong ground to expect success. For securing this, however, we must take care to remove completely every part of the diseased texture, and also some portion of the surrounding sound parts. We must in the first place make a most careful examination into the state of the glands, and even although these appear sound, yet, if after the parts be laid open, any hardness or chord be found to extend in their direction, it must be fol- lowed, and then we find on cutting towards the axilla, and dividing the fascia, or even by carrying the finger behind the pectoral muscle, without slitting the fascia, that indurated glands may be felt, although none could be previously dis- covered. The incision, in that case, must be prolonged so as to expose the axilla, when every one ol them must be removed. We must also remember, that glands may be affected by the side of the sternum, and in the neighbourhood of the clavicle. When the cancerous tumour is small and circumscribed, it has been the practice with some merely to make an incision over it, and remove it alone, and this is more particularly adopted when the breast is large. It would, say the advocates for this plan, be as cruel as it was unnecessary, to take away the whole breast on account of one tumour. The reasoning is plausible, and I am sorry to say, that I have been carried away with it. I say sorry, because out of several trials which I thought it safe to make, only one patient had not a relapse. I theiefore most e.u-355 nestly would object to this scheme, which experience makes me consider as leading to dangerous consequences. The portion of the breast which is left can be of little use, for often the patients are beyond the age of suckling. The pain of removing the whole breast, is perhaps not more than removing a portion of it, whilst the greater number of arteries which we may have to tie, may render it even more; add to this, the constant apprehension in which the patient must live. If we resolve to extirpate the whole breast, which I certainly would advise, we must take care that even then we have got away the whole of the tumour; and ought, for that purpose, as soon as the principal vessels are secured, to ascertain the state of the neighbouring parts with the finger, and also have the removed breast examined, so as to see that every part of the cancerous tumour be involved in sound texture. If any one spot on the outline of the extirpated mass, have a suspicious appearance, as if a section had been made of a cancerous substance, we must re-examine that part of the wound which corresponds with the suspicious spot, and, if necessary, remove more substance. I do not mean, in this place, to be more minute regarding the perform- ance of the operation, leaving that, so far as it regards the breast, lip, testicle, &c. to another part of,the work. I shall only observe, that we ought to pay great attention to have the vessels properly secured, the skin accurately laid down, and its lips carefully brought together with adhesive plaster, so as to produce adhesion as speedily and extensively as possible; which, although far from being essential to the cure, does, ceteris paribus, lessen the hazard and accelerate the recovery. I need not say, that for this and more im- portant purposes, we should also be careful that no part of diseased or contaminated integument be left, nor even the smallest portion of the outer fascia; and it is no less neces- sary to attend to the covering of the pectoral muscle. It is always safest to have that muscle completely denuded, and a red bottom left to the wound. I do not mean, however, to say, that we should pick away every cellular portion, as if we were going to make an elegant demonstration of the fibres. But we350 shall have no cause to regret having cleared it in the imme- diate sito of the induration. Wheie the glands are unaffected, and the tumour recent, there can be no hesitation in the mind of any man as to the propriety of urging an operation. But if the skin so partici- pates m the disease that we cannot save enough to cover the wound, and, more especially if the glands he affected, what- ever the state ol the skin may be, doubts may be entertained as to the benefit of operating. The two cases are widely dif- ferent in point of danger, for if the glands be sound the mere loss of skin is of secondary importance. It ought to be a fixed principle that we should remove too much rather than too little of the coverings in suspicious circumstances. So far as my observation goes, a relapse has never taken place from the mere failure of adhesion, or the necessity of healing by ulceration. When a cancerous sore supervenes before the parts have healed, we cannot say that the patient has relapsed, the disease has never been removed, apart has been taken away, but a portion has been left possibly apparently sound, perhaps, however, not sufficiently examined by the operator before making his incision. This portion follows the ordinary course of cancer, and an open sore is the conse- quence. We may leave the whole pectoral muscles uncov- eied, and yet have no relapse, if we have got beyond the con- tamination. Much attention ought also to be paid to the entire removal of the fascia covering the breast, and continuous with that of the axilla, and the latter portion must also, if the arm- pit be at all involved, be carefully removed. If the glands be affected, even if the skin should be appa- rently sound, the danger of relapse is great, and this must be fai thei incieased, il the cancer have become open. When the lymphatic system has become contaminated, the chance of a relapse is indeed so great, that our best practical surgeons, although willing to perform an operation when desired, decline urging it. If, however, the glands be moveable, and there is otherwise a prospect of being able to remove every thing apparently diseased, I am disposed to recommend the operation, not as a cure, but as a palliative. It may seem357 very strange language to speak of a painful operation, which we know to be ultimately unsuccessful, as if it were an ano- dyne. Nevertheless, experience confirms me, in making the assertion, that wherever we can remove all the parts appa- rently contaminated, we not merely often succeed in procur- ing a considerable period of health, but, also, when a relapse takes place, the death is less miserable, appearing to be as much connected with a general breaking up of the constitu- tion as immediately dependant on local disease. It is true, these advantages are purchased at the expense of all the terror and pain attendant on an operation; and it is but fair that the patient should be apprized of the nature of the en- terprise. There are doubtless instances where the wound never heals, but where a cancerous sore immediately succeeds the operation. This arises from our not having succeeded in removing the whole of the diseased texture, either from defi - cient attention, or from the marks of disease being too ob- scure for observation. In this case, the disease certainly makes more rapid progress than if no operation had been performed. But the constitution suffers more rapidly, the local pain is generally less, and if the patient die sooner, she at least, I think, dies easier. Still, however, I would not be understood as recommending an operation under these circum- stances ; on the contrary, I have decidedly said, that where we cannot remove the whole of the disease, we ought not to take up the knife. I merely state what appears to me to be the fact, in those instances where we are deceived. Where the tumour adheres to the pectoral muscle we have no reason to expect that we shall be able to eradicate it, and ought not to operate. It has been stated, on high authority, that a woman has a better chance of a complete cure if the opera- tion have been performed late than early, provided the dis- ease continue limited, as there is a greater probability that, in that case, it remains local. I fear there is a fallacy in this argument; for, in a disease, the character of which is not to remain stationary, it is agreeable to the principles of common sense (no bad guide) to believe, that the longer it has existed, the greater and the more extensive must the contamination358 be. Calculations have been made of the comparative success of operations, but these are so contradictory to one another, and some of them so decidedly at variance with general experience, that we can derive but little assistance from them. For example, Dr. Monro says, that out of sixty cases ope- rated upon, only four remained free from relapse at the end of two years. Mr. Hill, on the other hand, tells us that out of eighty-eight operations, although some of the cases were very bad, only twelve had relapsed at the end of the same period. Mr. Nooth goes farther, informing us that 102 operations were all successful. SECTION TENTH. A disease considered by many as a superficial cancer, but not I think with sufficient grounds, is known under the name of lupus, or, noli me tangere. * It commences with a very small tumour, sometimes, indeed, so indistinct, that it has not been recognized until it had ended in abrasion. In other cases, however, it is not only very evident, but may even ac- quire the magnitude of a bean. The primary appearances are indeed so dissimilar, that, were it not for the character of the sore produced, being the same in all, we should be apt to consider them as distinct affections. It may, for example, begin with slight superficial inflammation, with scarcely any tumour. The surface forms, and throws off, a furfuracious scale of a brownish yellow colour, another is formed, and presently detached, and very soon a sore is discovered on the removal of the scale. Our not always detecting, in the first instance, a little tubercle, is no proof that it has not previously existed. In another case we find the progress somewhat different. In place of a scab we have the part growing more prominent and assuming a warty appearance. This excrescence is either accidentally knocked off, when a little crust forms over its site, and presently the wart is reproduced; or from some irri- tation and excitement around the base, the wart in like man- ner drops off, and is reproduced. In this case, then, the sore is preceded, not by a superficial red spot, with little tumour, ending in scab by exudation, but by a warty excrescence.359 Thirdly, we find a more distinct tubercle appear, almost always oblong in its shape, and more elevated as we proceed from the circumference to the centre, something like half a bean. The margin is sometimes defined, but oftener short irregular prolongations extend to the circumjacent parts. Ihe sur- face is sometimes smooth, or even glazed ; in other instances irregular, as if subdivided by bands. The colour of the tubercle is sometimes white, like an elevated cicatrix, more fre- quently it is livid or pui'ple ; the bands are oftener observed in the white than in the red species; presently the surface becomes a little abraded, a scab is formed, and ultimately we have a sore, as in the former cases. Such tubercles may be solitary, or several may be clustered together*, or they may appear on distant parts of the body. The red tubercle has at first much the appearance of those tubercles which I have mentioned as sometimes covering a cancerous breast, and which have been called, by the old French writers, cancerous buttons; but these latter are rounder in their shape, and ter- minate in a different kind of sore. The furfuraceous spot is the most frequent appearance when the disease appears at the inner canthus of the eye, or on the wing of the nose. The wart is more common about the cheek; both the one and the other are also met with on the temple. The oblong- tubercle is oftenest met with on the trunk, sometimes near the fold of the pectoral muscle, much oftener on the back or shoulder. The sore produced in this disease is superficial, but deeper at the centre than at the circumference; it is covered with tenacious, whitish matter, and sometimes a thinner ichor runs also from it; its margins are red or inclined to purple, and have a fiery appearance; the sensation is that of smarting, al- ternated with much itchiness ; presently new spots come out, if the disease have been of the superficial form, or the origi- nal sore increases, and no longer becomes completely covered with a scab, but the margins are often incrusted. When the whole is exposed, the sore is found to be slightly concave, with a glossy surface covered more or less with tenacious matter. The uncovered portions are generally of a violet colour, but300 sometimes they are paler, lhe surrounding skin is covered with branny scurf. This sore does not spread very rapidly, nevertheless it makes a steady progress in the skin-and cellu- lar substance, but does not go deep so as to form excavations. The lymphatic glands rarely become affected, and it is long before the general health becomes so impaired as to cause death. Indeed, in a great many instances, that seems to be produced rather by the sore spreading to important parts, than by its direct influence on the constitution. When it appears, as it generally does, at the inner canthus of the eye, it is long confined to that, and the eyelids; it extends slowly to the eyeball, the cornea becomes opaque, but may be long of excoriating; the sore creeps along the eyeball into the orbit, so as to make a kind of dissection of the eye ; excru- ciating pain in the head is soon produced by affection of the nerves of the orbit. The brain next suffers, and the patient dies comatose. Females are chiefly affected with this disease, but males are also liable to it in the cheek and side of the nose. This disease is only to be got the better of by extirpating it. Warts and distinct tumours should be removed com- pletely by the knife, or by passing a needle quite below their base, in sound substance, and applying a ligature under this, so as to act on healthy skin and throw off all the diseased part. Should a sore, in place of adhesion, unfortunately fol- low the operation, or the ligature, we must destroy it in the way to be immediately mentioned. In the superficial, or furfuraceous form of the disease, at no stage, nor in any form, where a sore of considerable extent has already taken place, would I recommend an attempt at extirpation by the knife, but rather the application of caustic. Various appli- cations of this nature have been proposed, such as strong solutions of muriate of mercury, or of nitrate of silver, or the sore has been touched with the alkaline caustic, or strong nitric acid, or sprinkled with arsenical composi- tions. In the small and superficial sore occurring at the nose, or in the angle of the eye, nothing that I have ever tried has disappointed me so seldom as the application re-361 commended by Mr. Justamond, made by melting in a cru- cible, two parts of sulphuret of antimony and one ol white oxide of arsenic. The compound is to be reduced to a fine powder, and, if well prepared, ought then to be of a dark blue colour. He advised, when it was too strong, to mix it with powdered opium, but it is just as easy to sprinkle the soi’e more thinly with the powder. The sore is to be covered completely, but not at first very deeply, until we ascertain the effects with the powder. If any have gone on the sur- rounding skin it is to be carefully wiped off. A bit of lint, spread with simple ointment, is then to be applied as a defence. Very soon, more or less smarting, or even pain, is produced. A considerable discharge of serous fluid takes place, but this soon ceases. On examining the part next day it is found covered with a black slough, which is detached with more or less celerity. When it falls, the sore sometimes appears clean, and disposed to granulate. If so, we dress it merely with simple ointment, and, if next day it look still better, we continue the same till it cicatrize. But, if the sore be not at all, or only partially improved, we must make repeated applications of the powder, until we completely destroy the diseased surface. If the preparation, when applied in sufficient quantity, do not produce a complete slough, we may be sure that it has been too long exposed to the fire, so as to destroy much of the arsenic. In such circumstances, if a better preparation cannot be procured, I have known a small proportion of alkaline caustic added with success ; or we may apply a salve, made by mixing half a drachm of white arsenic with an ounce of simple ointment, or use nitrate of copper, or muriate of antimony, in a state of deliquescence ; but arsenic produces an eschar with less inflammation of the surrounding parts than most other caustics. Another form of arsenic, much recommended, is a solution of a grain of arseniate of potash in an ounce of water, applied as a lotion to the part by means of little bits of lint. This, however, is by no means equal to the powder. It may, how- ever, in extensive sores, be tried in the first instance. I may say the same of a draclnn of nitrate of silver dissolved in362 three ounces of water. Mr. Averill recommends, in prefer- ence to all these, the concentrated nitrous acid, to be applied by means of a brush. Arsenic has been recommended as an internal remedy, but I have never known it do any good. I must say the same of mercury. Carbonate of iron has also been employed, both externally and internally, but nothing short of the destruction of the diseased part can be depended on. SECTION ELEVENTH. I shall confine at present my account of scrofula vei’y much to the ordinary form of tumour affecting the glandular sys- tem, particularly the lymphatic glands, leaving some of the more particular variations dependant on or connected with texture and function, to be noticed when I come to consider the diseases of other parts, especially the joints and bones. This plan will at least furnish us with some principles and a general system of treatment applicable to the disease, suscep- tible, however, of alteration or modification, according to the peculiarity and combination of symptoms. The circumstance of the disease affecting chiefly the lym- phatic glands, and especially those of the upper part of the neck, has obtained for it the name of scrofula, as the enlarge- ment thus produced gives a resemblance to the throat of a sow. From the number of glands affected, and these being as it were heaped up, it has also been named struma. The older writers divided scrofula into two varieties, the struma mansueta and struma maligna, or the mild and malig- nant; and I see no reason why this distinction should be given up. The tumour in the mild form, I speak by com- parison, for the mildest is bad enough, begins with a soft tumour, which very early has a doughy feel. It is never hard, that is indurated, but if the capsule of the gland be thickened and resist, whilst the substance swells, with little fluid, the tumour for a short time feels firm, and as it slips perhaps under the finger, is supposed to be harder or more resisting than it really is; for if fixed, it is asceitaincd to be evidently elastic, and although firm, or even tight, cannot be called hard. If cut into at this time it is found to be different 1363 from a healthy gland. It is of a greyish colour, varying somewhat towards ash or yellow in different cases. It is more like firm albumen or coagulable lymph, and less like gland, according to the duration, if we do not go beyond a certain limit. It has not the gristly look of cancer, neither has it cysts and septa; but such cysts do occasionally form in other textures, particularly the secreting glands, yet even there they are very indistinct. It looks as if the glandular texture were partly obliterated, and partly infiltrated with firm coloured albumen. Presently the swelling increases a little, and becomes in so far slacker and softer, as to feel doughy; and if cut into at this stage, portions of curdy substance are found interspersed through different parts of the tumour. Soon after this the tumour extends a little more laterally, and also becomes rather more prominent, forming often, but not always, a little more adhesion to the surface. Then the most prominent part becomes softer; the hard elasticity of the first stage is lost, and the feeling is that of fluctuation com- bined with some degree of elasticity. A firm hard stool, or base and margin, can be felt below and around this. The skin becomes slightly tinged with a red colour, not bright, but inclining to purple. If at this time a puncture be made, either no matter or very little is discharged. The lips of the wound inflame and open, displaying at length a sloughy looking substance within, and between which and the surface a probe can sometimes be introduced for some way. In a more advanced stage, the tumour is quite soft, rather flaccid, and fluctuates freely; the skin becomes of a light purple colour, and small veins ramify over it; then the skin at one part becomes thinner, and generally of a darker colour. This bursts, and there is discharged a fluid like whey, mixed with thick white flocculi. The tumour does not entirely subside, but a considerable hardness remains at the base and round the margin. In some instances, after a time, the abscess closes up, and the hardness is absorbed; but in many other cases the aperture enlarges by a process resembling that of the suppurative sore, so that there is at last produced an open ulcer, flhe surface of this is of a pale red colour; the gra-nulations are flabby and indistinct; the general aspect is peculiar, and cannot well be described, otherwise, than by saying, that it is glossy, but not fiery. The discharge, which is copious, is usually thin, serous, or very slightly ropy, with curdy looking flakes; the margins are smooth, obtuse, and overlapping, of a purple colour, and rather hard and tumid. When this ulcer has continued for some time, it either begins slowly to cicatrize, or more frequently the discharge dimi- nishes, and becomes thicker, then hardens into an elevated scab, of a dirty white or yellowish colour; this falls off occa- sionally, exposing still an ulcer, but diminishing in size; it then remains on longer', and when it crumbles off, leaves the part covered with a smooth purple cicatrix, very frequently considerably depressed, or drawn down at the centre. By lapse of time the purple colour goes offj and the cicatrix becomes either of a light pink or dull white colour. When there have been many ulcers, the scars are not only numerous and irre- gular, but there is also considerable puckering of the skin. The struma maligna is marked by more hardness and inequality of the tumour; the pain is partly pulsatory, and partly gnawing; the veins in the immediate neighbourhood enlarge. But these characters are not essential, for the dis- ease may commence in the more ordinary, and then assume the malignant form; it is principally to the chaiactei of the sore that we are to look. 1 his is seldom, if ever, an ulcei ; it is a suppurating sore; the surface is dark colouied and fiery; the margins are soft, elevated, sharp, and sometimes retoited, the surrounding skin is inflamed, the discharge is watery, and the pain very considerable. In many instances, this state of the sore, depends on circumstances, which may be called adventitious, for instance, a disease of the bone below. Hence it is frequent over the smaller joints, particularly the toes, but we also meet with it where no bone is affected, in the glands of the neck, for example. & Scrofula may be viewed in two lights, first, as a peculiar constitution; and, secondly, as that constitution modifies various actions, natural or acquired. Or, in other words, we may consider it either as a diathesis, or as exhibiting the pe-culiarity of action depending on that diathesis. W e have therefore a distinction, into scrofulous constitution and scro- fulous disease. A scrofulous system is generally marked by a fine skin, fair complexion, light blue eyes, with opaque sclerotica, and frequently a carnation hue of the cheek. At other times, especially in those who belong to what has been called the melancholy temperament, the complexion is darker, the skin coarser, the look unhealthy, or at least the face is devoid of all the rosiness of health. It is sometimes tumid, and still more frequently the upper lip is swollen. It is too limited to confine our notions to tumour, or inflammation with any of its consequences; for there is scarcely any action, even typhus fever itself, as I have long ago remarked, which is not affected by it. But, on the other hand, to consider all the ailments or actions controlled or modified by this diathesis, would lead into a range inclusive of nearly a whole system of diseases. The origin of scrofula is altogether obscui’e ; if we look to it in the form of diathesis, we say scrofulous people are a distinct race, possessing a peculiar constitution. But in what does this consist, or how is it produced? That it is heredi- tary, is too well established to be disputed; and were this the only question, we could easily dispose of it. But how came this hereditary disposition to be acquired by those who first communicated it to the family ? We must conclude either that this is some modification by accidental causes of the healthy constitution, and therefore capable, when such causes do operate under powerful circumstances, of being produced in any one, or that some previous change of circumstances, as yet unknown, is requisite to enable such causes to produce the diathesis. That some have already acquired so strong a diathesis, as, for at least many generations, notwithstanding intermarriages, to communicate it to their offspring in a degree so powerful as to produce marked effects, is a fact. It is equally so, that by intermarriages, or the operation of obscure causes in individual children, or even in one or more generations, the diathesis may be so weakened as to exhibit no marked or decided effect. It is farther, I think, estab-fished, that by the operation of certain local causes, a local disease having all the characters or appearances of scrofula, may be induced in those who have neither in their own per- sons, nor for time immemorial in their forefathers, exhibited indications of the diatheses; and such people, if they after- wards have children, may communicate to them a decided diathesis. Thus far goes the fact, but we are not yet compe- tent to decide whether the diathesis have in a slight degree existed, even for generations, and only been called into acti- vity by the peculiar and favourable circumstances for it, under which the individual was placed; or, whether, like cancer and some other tumours, it may not often arise directly in the part by the operation of certain causes, producing a local scrofula, ending either in cachexia, or diathesis, or both. In whatever way we dispose of the question, I am persuaded that there is no person in whom scrofulous disease may not take place. We must refer the peculiarity of hereditary constitution to that of the nervous system, and, if we refine, more especially to the condition of that portion, which is first developed in the foetus, and this we know to be the spinal cord. That this does itself often suffer from the effects of diathesis directly, or by the action of its vessels, or changes in its coats, &c. is w-ell known. But I would go farther, and although I cannot prove it, offer as a plausible conjecture that it is to the primary, or that essential part of the nervous system which is first deve- loped, and without which life cannot continue, or growth take place, that we are to look for the seat of the diathesis, or the immediate cause of hereditary disease. That excitement, and peculiar conditions of the origins of the nerves, should pro- duce changes at their extremities, is not only conceivable, but is founded on facts acknowledged in every system of physiology. That such excitement or peculiarity of action _ at the origin of nerves can produce increased secretion, inor- dinate muscular action, or inflammation with its consequences, cannot be denied by any who consider the history of cephalic disease, in which we have frequently, increased secretion of bile, harassing vomiting, inflammation and abscess of the liver.367 I These facts can scarcely be disputed, and are the more readily admitted, because we see a direct sequence of the effect from the supposed cause. But is there any thing more improb- able in the supposition, that slow changes in the state and action of the origins of the nerves, or certain conditions of these, whatever name be given to them, may influence organs supplied by these nerves, producing slow change of texture, enlargement followed by inflammation, either as a concomi- tant effect of the primary cause, or resulting from actions more inherent in, or dependant on alterations of, the new growth itself. There is no part or oi-gan exempt from the operation of this cause, but some suffer more readily than others. The lungs are often affected, and tubercles are formed in them. Mucous membranes also suffer readily, more espe- cially if local injury be applied, a remark, indeed, applicable to every organ. The lymphatic glands are often affected, and it may be asked whether this be owing to the direct ope- ration of diathesis on them, owing to the peculiarity of their texture and functions, or whether they be only affected in a secondary way, by the absorption of irritating matter formed elsewhere. I rather think that both causes are capable of acting. There is a peculiar texture in scrofulous disease, possibly even in diathesis, although too indefinite to be discriminated. This peculiarity of texture may exist before scrofulous inflam- mation, or, in other words, for a long time without inflaming; and then when it does, the inflammation, as a matter of course, is scrofulous, or we may find, that by the application of an evident exciting cause, inflammation apparently of the simple kind may be induced in a part to all appearance previously healthy. This may end in scrofulous inflammation, whilst at the same time the texture is converted into scrofulous organi- zation. This is the case where the diathesis is very strong ; for all actions become, if continued, more or less modified by the diathesis, and none more readily than the inflammatory, insomuch, that scrofula has been considered as a species of inflammation. But inflammation is merely an accidental368 action supervening in the same way as we may have a scrofu- lous modification of a secretion. In what the diathesis consists, I can no more tell than I can explain the peculiarity of cancerous action. It is a par- ticular condition, giving rise to a special action, and this, which is saying little, is saying all that is known. It has been supposed that the essence of this peculiarity consisted in debi- lity, and that scrofula was a disease of weakness. Indolence may allow dust and rubbish to accumulate, but never can erect even an unseemly edifice. Debility may perhaps induce oedema, but it never can build up an organized tumour. I lie verv idea is so unphilosophical, that it can only be admitted from mere want of consideration. Debility may exist in every form and degree, under every circumstance, with or without inflammation, with or without tumour, with or without any local disease, and yet no scrofulous symptom appear. That it may—that it does, facilitate the appearance of scrofulous disease where there is diathesis, or aggravate the disease where it exists, I am willing to admit; but that it can, as some sup- pose, produce the disease, is quite inconceivable. Can it change a texture ? Can it produce a new growth? Can it swell out a bone ? Can it array a sore or ulcer in a peculiar dress, or secrete a scrofulous pus ? Happy system of imbeci- lity ' Cordials, .tonics, and nourishment, may then defy the worst disease that may be met with. But whilst I cannot for a moment allow the diathesis to consist in debility, I never- theless admit, that whatever weakens the system, or impairs the natural or healthy action, will render the diathesis more likely to produce disease. This is an observation not con- fined to scrofula, but applicable to most diseases, if not to all. For surely it is consonant to common sense to believe, that in proportion as we impair or injure the general health, we shall render the system more liable to disease. Debility, therefore, may be considered as a predisposing cause of disease, but I apprehend that a view too general is often taken ot debility. ' We can conceive the whole system, by some per- vading cause, to be weakened both in its power and action,369 without any peculiar combination. We can suppose again the system to be equally weakened by various and particular causes, which may, and must produce corresponding modifi- cations. The state of the system produced by failure of ner- vous energy, by bleeding, by abstinence, by cold, by mental anxiety, by indigestion, by colliquative discharges, by unwhole- some food, and many other causes which might be enumerated, although it may be the same in degree, cannot be exactly the same in kind. Various species of debility may give, more readily, a predisposition to particular diseases. With a view to countei’act, or lessen the predisposition to scrofula, we ought, on the one hand, to do all in our power to preserve and improve the general health ; and, on the other, avoid, as far as possible, every cause of disease, more espe- cially of local disease. The first of these objects is to be attempted by a nourishing diet, proper clothing, and regular exercise. With regard to diet, I apprehend that some mistaken notions prevail, for I find many recommending a libera], I might almost say an excessive use of animal food. Now, we know, that a very sparing use of that diet, is quite compatible with health and activity, and that a superabundance produces the very evil that it is meant to correct. That diet is perhaps the most nourishing, which is the most easily digested. The human stomach is intended to digest a mix- ture of animal and vegetable substance ; and although indi- viduals may thrive upon the one, or the other, yet, generally speaking, the best health results from a mixture. The food should be plain, sufficient in quantity to satisfy the appetite, but not superabundant, so as to oppress the stomach. Dressed dishes, salt or dried meat, melted butter, pastry, and sweet- meats, should be avoided, as well as every thing else, which, by experience, is found to disagree with the individual. The vegetable part should always be well boiled; but the animal food should never be too much cooked. In general, roasted will be found lighter than boiled meat; but neither require to be taken above once a day. It is the fashion, I believe, in consultations, to deliver minute rules with regard to diet, and these, in one point of view, may be very proper.370 There are many who require restrictions; there are others, who may be the better of special instructions. But in laying clown the one, and delivering the other, the practitioner, if a man of sense, will proceed on two principles. First, that whatever is readily digested by the individual, may be taken by him; and, secondly, that the quantity taken at a time, and the periods of eating, be such as fully to satisfy, but not to load the stomach. It is also the custom to recommend wine or malt liquoi*, with a view to remove debility. I will not say, that these, in some instances, may not only be useful, but also necessary. But I am quite sure, that, very often, par- ticularly with children, they do more harm than good. They are apt, first, to excite the stomach too much, and subse- quently to produce farther injury by turning into vinegar. As for home-made wines, they are little better than poison. The prescription of wine is always agreeable to relations, as well as to the patient. It is supposed to be both strengthening and nourishing. It is a mere cordial, a temporary stimulant, and only useful in that view. There may be cases where it is serviceable, in promoting digestion ; and where it is requi- site in this view, it ought certainly to form part of the regimen. A safer and more effectual mean, however, of promoting digestion, is the exhibition of suitable laxatives, when the bowels do not spontaneously do their duty. The greatest attention ought to be paid to this point, yet, I would not be misunderstood, or supposed to recommend purgative medi- cines, in those cases where they are not required. The clothing ought to be warm, and adapted to the season of the year. A flannel dress is highly serviceable, in order to coun- teract sudden changes of temperature. As much exercise, in the open air, as can be taken without fatigue, is of the utmost consequence, and, if the earlier years of life can be spent altogether in the country, it will be so much the better. Sea- bathing, during the summer and autumnal months, is also of great service, provided it agree with the patient. But it it produce languor, coldness, sickness, or headach, it does harm. Where sea-bathing cannot be obtained, the plunge-bath may be used at home.371 Another important part of our management, consists in obviating the direct causes of disease. We should, therefore, do every thing in our power to prevent the absorption of acrid matter. Excoriations behind the ear, herpes, porrigo, &c. ought to be checked with the utmost promptitude. It is also proper to allay the irritation of dentition by early scarifica- tion of the gum. But although I would thus prevent, as far as possible, swelling and irritation of lymphatic glands, I do not mean to maintain that even in scrofulous habits, such swellings shall invariably end in scrofulous disease. I only wish to avoid these, as probable exciting causes. I may make the same remark with regard to sudden variations of temper- ature, which, therefore, ought to be guarded against. In too many instances, notwithstanding every caution, the glands become affected with scrofulous disease, either in consequence of their natural delicacy, or of some more obscure cause not yet explained. In the lungs, tubercles form, without the evident operation of the exciting causes of inflammation. Subsequently, either by the application of such causes, or by changes going on within themselves, cough, emaciation, and the other symptoms which mark their presence, manifest themselves. Here we are very apt to mistake an effect for a cause, nevertheless, although, in the present state of science, we know of no infallible way of preventing their progress, we have yet good evidence, that it may be much accelerated by exposure to cold, intemperance, and other causes which tend to-produce pulmonary excitement, which, therefore, ought to be avoided. The same remark, mutatus mutandis, will apply to other organs. The mesenteric glands, for example, may be thrown into disease, by disorders in the alimentary canal. Inflammation produced in any part where it is tedious, or, becoming chronic under any circumstance, is apt, in scrofu- lous habits, to become affected by that disease. Acute inflam- mation is much less so. When joints and tendons become inflamed from sprain, or other causes, the most speedy means should be employed for their cure. When disease has actually taken place, it is proposed to cure it either by directly tonic means, on the part of thosewho consider the essence of the disease to be debility, or, by specific remedies, when such are imagined to exist. I have made, on the first of these plans, every remark which I believe to be really useful, whilst I was considering the treatment of diathesis; and this ought to be followed out with more or less vigour according to the complications of the disease, or the fever and excitement, and active inflammation which may exist. In most cases of scrofulous disease affecting the exter- nal glands, the tonic plan is not only admissible, but useful, particularly sea-bathing, nourishing diet, and strict attention to the bowels. There are some remedies which have been proposed, partly as tonics, partly as stimulants, and partly as specifics. Bark was long ago recommended as atonic. It does not appear to me to have the smallest effect in lessening a scrofulous gland; but given so as to improve digestion, it sometimes seems to do good in scrofulous sores. In such cases as seem to be connected with, or aggravated by irritability, it may be beneficial when it has the effect of lessening that con- dition. It may either be given in the form of powder, m sue doses as do not produce sickness, or, a light infusion, or smal doses of the sulphate, may be prescribed. Mercury is another medicine which has been employed; but if given so as to pro- duce a specific effect on the system, it is deleterious in pro- portion to the degree of that effect, and many have had then days shortened by it. Some are in the habit of giving sma quantities of the blue pill to act as an alterative, or to rectify, real or supposed, disorders of the digestive organs; and where the secretions of these organs are faulty, hall a pill, or a whole pill, according to the age of the patient, may be <fiven every night, or every second night, until we can ascertain what beneficial effect it can produce; and benefit may be derived from conjoining it with the daily use of some bitter laxative. As an alterative, or constitutional medicine, however, I would expect more harm than good from it ; and 5 fear, that of late years, even in the former point of view t has too often been given without discrimination Calon particularly, conjoined with drastic purgatives, such “ 8 ‘ Jnony, has been advised to be given once a week, 01 oftene .37 3 But if this combination be given so as to act powerfully, it is debilitating; in a smaller dose, it can do no more than a milder laxative, whilst it is more apt to derange the bowels. The form of mercury, that I think the most useful, although not much disposed to praise any of them extravagantly, is the muriate of mercury, which may be given in the dose of to % ot a grain twice a-day, or according to the age of the patient. It should not be continued above a fortnight at a time, nor so long, at least in the same dose, if it produce any debilitating diuresis, or griping, or the specific effects of mercury on the system, or interfere with the appetite. When it does good, it seems to act as a tonic, promoting the appetite, keeping the bowels regular, and slightly exciting most of the secre- tions. Under these circumstances, it is sometimes useful, but I am very far from saying universally so. In promoting the ' absorption of scrofulous tumours, and the healing of ulcers, cicuta, muriate of barytes, muriate of lime, and aqua kali, have each had their day; but as general remedies in scrofula they have now lost their reputation. Iodine has for some years been recommended from having been found useful in the swelling called goitre. I fear, however, that we must not expect much from this remedy; still in the present defi- ciency of other means, it may be worth trying, but as it is an active and a dangerous medicine, it should always be given with circumspection, and from its effects on the chest, ought never to be given in pulmonary diseases; neither ought it to be given during the existence of inflammatory action. Children of two years may begin with four drops of the tincture three times a day. Adults may take twenty drops for a dose. Iodine has also been mixed with lard, so as to form a substance which could be rubbed on the tumour morning and evening, or tiie tincture has been mixed with anodyne balsam. Some consider the external application so useful, as to supersede its internal administration. I have seldom seen any benefit from the friction, whilst it is apt to irritate the skin, and give pain, ihese medicines, so far as they are expected to have any effect on scrofulous glands, are intended to produce, directly, or indirectly, absorption. And, with a view of aiding this, somelocal application may be resorted to. '1 here is, perhaps, nothing better in the early stage of the complaint, than the application of cloths wet with cold water, provided the cold be not carried the length of weakening the part. No addition to the water, no medicated lotion is more efficacious. If, how- ever, the gland do not speedily diminish under this treatment, it is unnecessary to pursue it. Nothing ought to be done until matter form, and for a considerable time thereafter. Warm poultices are apt to fret the skin, and generally do mischief. As soon as the gland seems to have fairly suppur- ated, and before the skin have become much inflamed, or very thin, it will be proper to let the matter out by a very small opening, as this tends to diminish the mark. We ought not, however, to be rash in resorting to this, but must wait till we find that the matter is increasing, and that there is no hope of its being absorbed. I am led to give this advice from having observed, that by the continued application of cold water, glands which apparently contained matter, have had that matter absorbed. Perhaps, in some cases there may have been a deception, from the gland becoming softer, whilst a firm fascia lay over it; but still there are examples sufficient to establish the fact. On the other hand, when the skin is allowed to become very thin, and of a deep purple coloui, puncturing comes to be of little service, for the thinnest paits must be absorbed. A larger sore, and a corresponding scar, must thus be produced, and the puncture is apt to leceive the blame. I am disposed, then, when the unremitting progress of the disease shows that the abscess must burst, to recommend an early small opening, and this may be done with advantage although the skin be red, if it be also thick; but where it is very thin, and the process is going on very acutely, it is better to let it burst spontaneously; nor does this always leave a mark more perceptible than that left by the lancet. When the skin, although red, is thick, the small puncture may be closed with adhesive plaster, and when the fluid, which is at first thick, white, and curdy, reaccumulates, the puncture either opens spontaneously, or may be reopened with a probe or lancet before the contents be so great as originally, lhe37 5 secretion now is often found altered, and is yellow and ropy, another modification of albumen. We may now inject the cyst with solution of sulphate of zinc, or with diluted port wine, provided it be not large. A scrofulous gland, when matter forms, may more properly be viewed as an encysted tumour than as an abscess; and as the cyst continues, even after it bursts, to secrete albumenous fluid, we can expect no cure till that cyst be destroyed, spontaneously or artificially, or undergo an alteration in its nature. When a scrofulous sore is produced either by the exposure of this abscess, or by a more superficial disease originally affecting the skin, we find that it is long of healing. It discharges serous fluid, which, after a length of time, becomes thicker, coagulates, or inspis- sates into an elevated crust of a dirty white, or yellowish colour, somewhat like the indurated excrement of a fowl. This is a preliminary, although a slow one, to healing. As the progress of recovery, however, is always tedious, different plans have been attempted for accelerating it, most of which have pro- ceeded on the supposition of the ulcer being one of debility. Various stimulants, both external and internal, have, therefore, been employed. With regard to internal remedies, I have not much to add to what has already been said. If the plan already mentioned fail, we may try moderate doses of nitrous acid, given alone, or with decoction of sarsaparilla, or for the benefit of exercise and change of situation, we may send the patient to Harrowgate or Moffat, where sulphureous waters may be used externally and internally; but if the season per- mit, I would have more expectation from sea-bathing. The local applications are generally of a stimulating nature, such as the unguentum hydrargyri nitrati of such a strength as not to produce pain, cloths soaked in solution of nitrate of silvei', or sulphate of zinc, of such a strength as merely to be felt, pressure, by means of adhesive plasters, and rollers, &c. The struma maligna is not an ulcer, but a suppurating sore of an irritable and painful nature ; occasional!}', it even assumes the form of sloughing phagedena. It is always obstinate, and, if connected with a diseased bone or tendon is never got the better of, till the cause be obviated. Where,however, it is merely an affection of the skin, it is cured by remedies, or by lapse of time. We attend, first ot all, to digestion, and the state of the alvine discharge; whilst the diet is to be nourishing, but not stimulating. Infusion of bark, decoction of sarsaparilla, or if it do not decidedly aggravate the symptoms of disease, small doses of the muriate of mercury may be given. Pain is to be allayed, and rest procured, by opiates. The tepid bath, either fresh or salt, is also sometimes serviceable. The local applications must be varied according to their effect. We may use bread and milk, carrot, or hemlock poultices, lint dipped in the black wash, the aqua phagedenica, or solution of nitrate of silver; sometimes, on the other hand, the mildest salve agrees best. Having already compared a scrofulous tumour to a secreting cyst, and inferred, that one cause of the obstinate continuance of the disease, was the action of that cyst, con- sidered as a secreting surface; it may be inquired, whether the cure might not be accelerated by destroying completely that surface by caustic; or even, at an early period, cutting out the gland before matter formed. This, indeed, was at one time a practice adopted, particularly by Mr. Wiseman. It fell, however, into disrepute, from the pain and seveiity of the operation, from the number of glands frequently affected, and from the probability of the disease speedily appearing elsewhere; an event, which, it was apprehended, might be assisted by the removal of the gland already diseased. Whh regard to the last argument, we have no proof of its validity, and, therefore, I set it aside. Where theie aie many glands affected, the severity of the operation, and the numerous scars which will be left, would certainly not be better than the natural, though more protracted cure, espe- cially when we consider, that many of the glands may ulti- mately be absorbed, without coming to ulceration. On the other hand, where only one gland is affected, we must con- sider, whether the mark left by the necessary incision attend- ant on an operation, and the release of the patient from all the inconvenience of a tedious sore, shall be preferable to a smaller, although more unseemly cicatrix, and all the incon-venience connected with the tedious cure effected by nature. Of this, every one will judge for himself. There is another circumstance, on which we may speculate, namely, whether the early excision of scrofulous tumour might not prevent an increase of the diathesis, by that tumour being allowed to run through a tedious course of disease. We do not as yet, however, possess facts sufficient to decide the point. I would, however, remark, that although the exquisite, or well marked scrofulous tumours, retain till the last their peculiar characters, yet those in which the action and character are less decided may change their nature, and thus, as the more simple tumour may afford a material capable of being converted in course of time into a texture of a more dangerous nature, so the scro- fulous tumour may come to lose its original character, without being absorbed or removed, and afterwards may undergo a new change. This is particularly the case with secreting glands, and although the doctrine may be disputed, I have little doubt that scrofula may be antecedent to scirrhus of the mamma, pylorus, and cervix uteri. We may, therefore, be inclined, in some cases of doubtful nature, but more resem- bling scrofula than any other disease, to extirpate the tumour as the safest practice, and most speedy way of getting rid of danger. SECTION TWELFTH. The last description of tumour which I shall notice, is the encysted ; a term which I mean to restrict to a cyst, contain- ing unorganized substance more or less fluid. These tumours have generally been divided into three varieties. First, the steatomatous, containing a substance like fat, which, never- theless, is made up of albumen. This does not come within the limits I have drawn, and has already been noticed, when considering solid tumours. The second variety is the melli- cerous, containing a substance resembling honey, of more or less thickness. The third is called atheromatous, from con- taining a substance more resembling pap. These contents, however, are essentially the same; differing, perhaps, chiefly in the proportion of albumen they contain, or the modifica-378 lions it may have undergone. There are other tumours, however, of very frequent occurrence, not comprised in this division : many cysts, for instance, contain a pellucid sub- stance, exactly resembling the vitreous humour of the eye, or the white of an egg; others contain a fluid much resem- bling oil, but which is merely coloured albumen; others con- 0 7 * 9 tain, floating in a fluid, hard substances resembling grains of rice, or bits of cartilage. Encysted tumours have been supposed to owe their origin to the closing or insulation of an individual cell, the surface of which next changed its action, and secreted a new fluid. We know nothing at pre- sent of the matter. These tumours form in almost every part of the body. They are frequent in the eyelids, in the lips, on the scalp, about the throat or neck, lhey are not uncommon on the shoulders or extremities. T-hey aie even met with in the brain, or between it and the dura matei. Very frequently they form over tendons, and then receive the name of ganglia. They may also form in the female breast, and then give rise to much anxiety, as well as actual danger. Encysted tumours are generally equal in their sur- face. They are moveable, more or less, as they are discon- nected with fascia, or other firm and fixed parts. They con- vey to the finger the impression of a fluid within. Sometimes the impression is that of fluctuation, more frequently of elasticity. We cannot always, however, from the feeling, decide that a tumour is encysted, and contains a fluid, for some enlargements which are of a cellular nature, particularly when bound down by a fascia, give very much the same feeling. This is particularly the case with the cellular variety of the vascular tumour already noticed. 1 do not at present notice those fluctuating tumours more or less extensive, containing albumenous pus, and known un- der the name of chronic abscesses. These I have already alluded to, and although not always perhaps correct, it would not be often wrong to say, that they were merely the result of scrofulous tumours enlarging after the secretory stage had been established to a greater or less degree. Encysted tumours may remain long stationary, but they an. \en nm y379 absorbed either naturally or by the aid of art. They have always a tendency to increase, and sometimes, though not often, do so pretty rapidly. Partly on account of the present deformity, and partly from the fear of their becoming still larger, it is often desirable to have them removed. When, however, they are nearly stationary, their removal is optional on the part of the patient. The application of blisters, strong friction, or continued pressure, have been employed to promote absorption, but rarely with any success. More confidence is placed in pres- sure, in causing the absorption of a ganglion than of any other encysted tumour. It has also been proposed by a smart blow to rupture the coat of the ganglion, and allow the matter to escape into the neighbouring cellular substance. This is a bad plan, for, although it sometimes succeeds, it may cause pain, or, what is worse, be followed by troublesome in- flammation. If continued steady pressure, do not cause ab- sorption, the ganglion should either be altogether let alone, or be emptied by a small oblique puncture, or be carefully dis- sected out, and adhesion be produced as speedily as possible. It must not, however, be concealed that this operation is some- times followed, for a considerable time, by pain, burning heat, or other unpleasant sensations, either continued or coming in paroxysms. The external application of tincture of opium, or the affusion of cold water on the part, or the internal use of arsenic have appeared to remove these sensa- tions, although possibly the cure might be attributed to time. The best way of removing an encysted tumour, is to dissect it completely out; for which purpose we wish not to injure the cyst, but to keep it entire during the operation; the lips of the wound are then to be brought together, and adhesion promoted. There can be but one opinion with respect to the superiority of this practice with regard to tumours, if small, or even ol moderate size, but when they are large, and par- ticularly when connected with important vessels or nerves, their complete excision would constitute a very formidable operation. It has, therefore, been proposed to puncture these tumours, press out their contents, and trust to inflanuna-380 tion for an obliteration of the cyst. This is, to say the best of it, a very uncertain, and generally a very tedious prac- tice. If the orifice heal speedily, the cyst renews its secretion, and we presently are just where we were. On the other hand, if it do not heal, the secretion goes on, and although it may be altered in quality, and the cyst contracted in size, we have a long continued discharge, a thickening of the parts, and at the very best a sinus leading into these parts. I know well, that sometimes by steady pressure, sometimes by the injection of stimulating fluids, or the passage of a seton along the sinus, or the introduction of a tent smeared with an escha- rotic, a cure has ultimately been accomplished; but I also know, that very formidable effects have occasionally resulted from the use of these means, and although a patient have been cured after high constitutional irritation, and formidable ery- sipelas, yet life itself is brought into danger. In order to accelerate the cure, it has been proposed at once to pass a seton through an encysted tumour, and this, no doubt by its continued presence, might ultimately so far alter the action of the secreting surface, as at last to establish a species of sup- puration, so that, when afterwards withdrawn, the part heals; yet even where the most favourable change of secretion takes place, a cure cannot be relied on, and in many instances fatal effects rapidly are produced. Within a few hours after the introduction of the seton, the patient may be seized with shivering, sometimes amounting even to convulsive shaking; this is followed by heat, and sometimes by perspiration, and the pulse in all the stages is excessively frequent. 1 he tumour or the parts around it at the same time swell, or become more or less painful, and the skin sometimes erysipelatous. If these symptoms do not abate within three days, they generally prove fatal; they may do so even more rapidly. In the disserta- tions on inflammation which 1 published nearly thirty years ago, I noticed a curious case, where, soon after the insertion of a seton, the tumour began to secrete air, at the same time that extreme irritation ot the system was produced, and a similar tendency to secrete a gaseous fluid prevailed ovei the body, so that a general emphysema took place: the case381 proved fatal within two days. It has been imagined that the surfaces of such cysts, when irritated, although no bad effects be immediately produced, yet come to throw out a fungus of a malignant nature, ending as fatally as cancer. That this may sometimes be the case, I am not disposed to dispute, but rather, from some circumstances I have witnessed, am willing to admit; nevertheless, it is an event comparatively rare in its occurrence, and dependant on some peculiai'ity in the indivi- dual tumour. But as we cannot, a priori, say of any tumour, that it does not possess such a power, it is an additional argu- ment for avoiding the seton, and all rash irritation of the cyst. Some tumours, however, 1 am persuaded, have had a seton passed through them, in the belief that they contained a fluid, when in truth they were, from the very fii’st, spongoid tumours, which, from their elasticity and other characters, are at first, and especially when small, apt to be mistaken. The late Mr. Dease, in 1781, published an account of a cancerous excre- scence, as he styled it, being produced by passing a seton through a ganglion at the wrist. From the dissection of the patient, there can be no doubt that this supposed ganglion was a spongoid tumour. On the whole, I am disposed to recommend the excision of the tumour, both as the safest, and also as the speediest cure, although at the moment it may be the most painful. In cer- tain cases, however, where the tumours are of small size, and situated in parts where it might be troublesome to dissect them completely out, I have succeeded completely by laying them open, and applying to every point of the surface a solu- tion of caustic so strong as to destroy the cyst, without going any farther. After the thin slough is thrown off’, the part heals. I do not, however, mean to advise the excision of such tumours if very large, and particularly if connected with important parts. In such cases puncturing, or the use of the seton, must be resorted to. r ••382 CHAP. VII. OF ADHESION. The process of adhesion is, perhaps, the most important which can come under the consideration of a surgeon. For the principles upon which it proceeds, must form in a great measure the foundation on which the success of his operations rests. When parts which have been divided, are laid together, so as to unite, we find, after the blood ceases to flow, that the vessels pour out a secretion, which has been considered as the coagulable lymph of the blood. As it cannot be de- cided, whether at first it be mere lymph, or lymph modified by the action of the vessels, it does not appear to be of prac- tical importance, to argue the question. By degrees, the intermedium, by successive absorptions and depositions, be- comes more and more analagous to the original texture, until at last no difference exists. This process of adhesion then is similar to, and of the exact nature of that of nutrition, or the constant deposition of particles, to supply those taken up by the absorbents. It is not, however, a simple process, consisting either of one step, or of a progressive series of steps, but several different actions or processes are going on at the same time. The depositing, or nutritive vessels, which formerly possessed and exercised a function, confoi tri- able to the texture to which they belonged, and necessary for its preservation or existence, reassume that action, and whilst at first every divided vessel poured out blood alone, and then a fibrinous substance, probably of the same nature, over every part of the surface, they now secrete or furnish a substance, more similar in its texture, and akin in its organi- zation, to the original state. Hence, the vasa vasorum, or depositing vessels, which formerly kept up the labile ot arteries veins, and absorbents, resuming their properties, deposit’in layers, what may truly be called, of microscopic extent, successive circles from the cut mouths of the minute383 vessels, which still remain patent on each surface, which coalesce with those elongating or renewing from the opposite sides. Thus a vascular union is established, at the same time that a similar process is going on, with regard to nerves, and other parts of animal organization. It must not be supposed that the divided trunks, or larger branches, thus elongate, for they are closed, either by ligature, or a process of nature, so as no longer to be pervious. But the vasa minima, or small vessels ramifying in the substance, and on the surface ol the divided parts, the capillaries, become thus elongated, and coalesce. There never is direct and immediate inoscula- tion of divided vessels, or direct union of two opposite sur- faces, however closely they may be applied. There is always, in the first instance, an intermedium, or thin layer, like red jelly, which becomes denser, and progressively changed, at the same time that vessels extend into it. If an wound recently closed, be torn open, the mouths of the vessels originally divided, bleed; but if we delay for a day or two, the bleeding is not from those vessels, but from new ones, which cover its exposed surface, first with drops, and then with a diffused sheet of blood. If we save a flap of skin, leaving it still attached to the rest of the limb by one end, and then lay it down and promote union, both of its surface to the part below, and of its sides to the rest of the skin, we find that the process described takes place; and if, after the part have recovered, and the new vessels have established a circulation, we cut the base of the flap which was not originally divided and then reunite that line of division, the same step takes place there, and we have ultimately a portion of skin which has by these two operations been every where detached, but is now every where reunited by solid substance, and the5 vas- cular circulation re-established. Reunion of parts, then, by the process of adhesion, is neither more nor less than the re-establishment of the natural function of nutrition, over surfaces in a state of apposition. It is a natural process existing, however, in a forced or excited degree, and goino- on, also, in a state of progressive perfection. We are not then, to be surprised, if the excitation be'to any considerable384 extent, as must happen if the wound have been large, that we should have both increased vascular action, and also, more or less sensation, and even increase of temperature. This has led Mr. Hunter to look on adhesion as a species of inflammation, capable of going, possibly, to a formidable degree. That adhesion may follow inflammation, we have already seen, and shall again notice, but that it is in its ordi- nary form a species of inflammation, I cannot admit, lo suppose that it is a distinct and peculiar process, mixed up of inflammation and agglutination, both mutually dependant on each other for their existence, is to confound, in my opinion, all distinction between a mere sequence, and an essential attribute. That adhesion, considered as a process manifested in the direct cure of wounds, is a species of inflam- mation, is nothing better than a mere speculation. Even when accompanied with its highest excitement, and attended with its most vivid and highly marked phenomena, it is not inflammation; as well may we call blushing inflammation, because it is attended by heat and redness,—as well may we call heartburn inflammation, because it is attended by sensa- tion,—as well may we call pregnancy inflammation, because there the uterine vessels enlarge, and deposit new matter. Inflammation is an action, productive of a complete change of the natural condition. It is new in its nature it is con- nected with an altered texture—it is an action of disease, tending rather to disorganization than preservation; a condi- tion which may, indeed, stop short of destruction, but which also may proceed through every degree of change and injury, to utter ruin. The action, on the other hand, attendant on adhesion, is limited in its degree, not merely the most effec- tual enemy to inflammation, but absolutely incompatible with it; a sure and a certain plan for the restoration of the part, and the security of the system. Mr. Hunter, who has certainly the merit of first calling the attention of surgeons, in a decided and scientific way, to what may justly be called the most essential and fundamental principle in their profession, was wrong in the view he took of the subject. He admits two species of union ; one, he 12 c styles union by die first intention ; the other, adhesion, or adhesive inflammation. In union by the first intention, the parts, he supposes, are first glued together by clotted blood ; then the red particles are absorbed, at the same time that vessels shoot into the remaining lymph. If the quantity effused, however, should be greater, the surfaces of the coa- gulurn alone become vascular, whilst the central, or interme- diate portion, is absorbed. In adhesive inflammation, on the other hand, that lymph, which, in the former case, was sup- posed to be left by the absorbents, is poured out, either by the vessels or cells, (he does not seem certain which,) and, into this, the vessels shoot, or it becomes vascular. The only difference, then, in the ultimate steps of the two processes, is, that union is effected in the one case, by blood, in the other, more directly by lymph. But both, he expressly says, are equally efficacious. In the one, however, there is neither inflammation, nor disturbance of the constitution. In the other, there is more or less of a peculiar inflammation, which, he says, may be more speedy in its operation than the first mode. Much, however, depends on the sagacity of the part; xor the lymph, we are told, becomes vascular, sooner or later, according to the apparent necessity. Bleeding is a necessary consequence of a division of the vessels, and if the surfaces be joined at all by any interme- dium, that intermedium must be blood, and can at first be nothing else. They must either be joined by that, or by nothing. But so long as blood exists between the surfaces there is no adhesion. The process may, doubtless, hereafter commence, but it has not yet done so, more than it had done at the moment when the surfaces were brought into contact, and kept so by a plaster. The intermediate layer of blood, although it may keep the surfaces together, is to be viewed as a sequence of the division, rather than as a step of reunion; as an effect, of the wound, which must necessarily appear, before the restorative process begins. Even viewed as a pre- liminary, it can only be considered as a commencing step not even so essential, as that of putting the foot into the stirrup, is to the act of riding; and we well know, that a man38G may stand long enough thus, without ever being seated in the saddle. Neither the effusion of blood, nor even of lymph, nor of any unorganized substance, constitutes adhesion, although the last may be considered as a preliminary step. The process is one of organization, but the vessels being cut, that process must be preceded, first, by bleeding, and next, by a secretion of fluid from the vessels, as a matter of course, resulting from the injury. Then the process begins, and is not confined to mere elongation, or inosculation of vessels, but embraces every point of reunion. Mr. Hunter thought that vessels penetrated into blood, or into coagulable lymph, which became thus the living intermedium of union, and the soil necessary for the growth of vessels. As a necessary part of this doctrine, he was bound to maintain that clots could be injected; more lately, Sir Everard Home has supposed that the extrication of gas, forcing a passage through the coagulum, formed a tract for new vessels. By placing blood covered by coloured size, under the receiver of an air-pump, and then exhausting the air completely, the gas contained in the coagulated blood, forms tracts, into which the thin size is forced, on the re-admission of the air. I presume, how- ever, that the learned Vice-President might, in the same way, inject a spoonful of blancmange. It no more follows that vessels shoot into blood or lymph, because these are necessary as a nidus, or that the effusion of these fluids is the cause of the elongation of vessels, or the reunion of the part, than that the propulsion of a ball depends on the report which accompanies it. The explosion of gun- powder is the cause of these concomitant effects; and in the same way the effusion of an intermedium, of a nature varying according to the stage of the process, and the prolongation of vessels and nerves, through that, are conjoint consequences of the action or process ol adhesion. When we look into the older writers, we find very little on the subject of adhesion. I do not recollect a single writer who introduces the term into his index, far less who gives it a distinct chapter. We must not hence, however, suppose that it was altogether passed over; for they all, with more or less387 distinctness, noticed the process itself in the consideration of wounds, and some, as we shall immediately see, pushed the practice very far. They consider it as accomplished by the effusion of the nutritions part of the blood, by which they mean the lymph. This is quite analogous to Mr. Hunter’s opinion; and although they deprecated the accession of inflammation, it does not appear that they had any objection, in point of fact, to what Mr. Hunter calls adhesive inflamma- tion. For it was an axiom derived from Hippocrates, that it was a bad sign if a wound swelled much, but still worse if it did not swell at all. They differed, however, from Mr. Hunter in their opinion of the utility of coagulated blood, which Le Dran very unceremoniously says, is nothing better than an extraneous substance. One and all of them were clear for removing it, and I think they were right. Colbatch comes as near the truth as any of the writers; for he says, there is no difference in the union of a wound, and the filling up of the natural void made by transpiration (absorption), both being effected by the nutritious juice. Although no great attention was paid to the theory, and certainly not to the practice of adhesion, still we find, at vari- ous times, such proposals made, as do testify great confi- dence in the powers of nature. At a very early period, for instance, attempts were made to supply deficiencies, either natural, or consequent to disease, by first making the edges of the deficient part raw, and then dissecting from the neigh- bouring skin, a flap which was still allowed to adhere to it, however, by a neck. This flap being twisted round, had its edges applied to those of the divided part, which had previ-r ously been made raw, and the junction was maintained by sutures and plasters. Thus, for example, the loss of part of the under lip was supplied by a flap which was raised from the chin, and twisted round, so that its exterior surface was still outermost. An allusion to this may evidently be found in the ninth chapter of the seventh book of Celsus. It was afterwards described in the end of the thirteenth century by Lanfranc, and more particularly, towards the middle of the fifteenth, by Branca. It seems afterwards to have been pro-388 posed to restore noses, not by turning down a flap from die forehead, but by raising one from the arm, which was applied to the face, the arm being fixed there till union were accom- plished. This was first described by Alexander Benedictus in the end of the fifteenth century. A hundred years after- wards, a folio work on the subject was published by the cele- brated Taliacotius, who, in the popular opinion, is considered as the inventor. He was in the practice of raising a flap, from the arm of the patient, which he called a propago. This was affixed to the boundaries of the former nose, previously made raw. After the union had taken place, the connexion which still remained between the arm and the propago was divided, and the new nose properly trimmed. He gives an admonition to make a good large nose when we are about it, “ for this feature,” says he, “ is so important, that some nations choose a king by the length of his nose.” For the benefit of the more wealthy, it was proposed to take the propago from the skin of another person : but this practice was not without its inconvenience, as it was always expressly understood, that the new nose was not bound to live one moment longer than its original proprietor. It was a liferent dependant on him. This scheme, which is better known as a matter of amuse- ment than of practice, undoubtedly contributed to give more confidence in the process ot adhesion. Alter the time ol Alexander Benedictus, attempts seem more frequently to have been made to reunite parts which had been nearly disjoined, a remarkable and successful instance of which was related by Arceus in 1574. Even parts, completely, and for some time separated, were replaced, and at various times we have narratives of the success of the attempt. It was long, how- ever, before a more important step was taken, the applica- tion of the doctrine of adhesion to the performance of opera- tions. Attempts were indeed made in the end of the seven- teenth century to cover stumps with a flap, and to save as much skin in the removal of a cancerous breast as would cover the wound. But the vessels, in these cases, not being pro- perly secured, and indeed a concomitant benefit expected to accrue from the plan, being that of closing the vessels by pres-389 sure, it is no wonder that the proposal met with very limited encouragement. It was not till after the middle ol the last century that adhesion could be considered as forming a main or essential object in the performance of operations, and even then its real value was not thoroughly understood. From the practice occasionally adopted at an earlier period, it was estab- lished, that the skin of one man might be made to unite to the body of another; nay, if we may credit authority, it was determined, that a man might be indebted to a dog for the propago affixed to his skull. Du Hamel afterwards trans- planted the spur of a cock to the leg of a hen, and Mr. Hunter made a tooth unite with the comb of a cock. I have, for a time, made the comb of a cock adhere to the skull of a kitten. 'I his, which may appear to have been a very useless experi- ment, nevertheless illustrated a principle which never should be lost sight of in attempting adhesion, namely, the communi- cation of action from the neighbouring parts to that which is either replaced or applied, in a degree greater than its power is capable of safely sustaining. If two surfaces, formed by a mere incision in a healthy part, be laid together, the intermedium no doubt is less perfect in texture than the neighbouring parts, if by perfection we mean similitude to these parts. But being- very thin, and produced equally by both surfaces, its real power is little, if at all, inferior to that of the surface which formed it. It is, therefore, capable of acting in concert with it, and in the same degree. But if a considerable portion of substance have been almost entirely detached, and particu- larly if that portion have been bruised or injured, it must be considerably weaker than the rest of the member, and when laid down and connected again, or united with the member, and called again to act in concert with it, it is evident that a weak part is called on to act with one which is stronger. The same effect must be produced as if two horses of unequal strength, swiftness, and spirit, were yoked together; either the one must be reined in, or the other must be exhausted. Either we must keep down, then, the action of the limb by cold applications, and a state of strict rest, or we must have the weak flap which had been laid down destroyed by the390 communication of a greater degree of action than its power is capable of sustaining. I might illustrate this principle by many explanations and examples. But whoever understands it, must at once perceive, without farther argument, that in the management of parts which have been extensively detached, we must prevent the communication of action from the neigh- bouring parts to the portion laid down, with a vigilance and solicitude proportioned to the injury which that portion has sustained, and its inability to sustain action. With regard to the management of the portion itself, we must be careful, upon the one hand, not to excite it by the stimulus of heat, or by any kind of irritation, and on the other not to allow its temperature to fall so low as would, in any degree, endanger its existence. If we prevent the communication of undue action to the part laid down, and take care that the two sur- faces be, in every point, kept in accurate contact, and no extraneous substance, or effused blood intervene, there is strong ground for expecting adhesion. The particular means for effecting these purposes I shall presently speak of with more advantage when I come to consider the treatment of wounds. O Here I shall be satisfied with merely noticing one or two causes of failure; and first, I need scarcely mention, that if a portion absolutely dead be laid down again with ever so much accuracy on the part from which it had been separated, it cannot unite. But a small portion of the body, although completely detached, may reunite if reapplied before its animal vitality be completely lost. But the probability of adhesion taking place is small. Next, I would remark, that when an incision has been made in a limb, or a flap raised up and then laid down, if either or both of the surfaces should inflame, adhesion does not take place. It may take place ultimately, but it must be through the medium of granulations. I have spoken of the effect of the communication of action in pro- ducing the inflammation of a part which had been laid down. But other causes may produce inflammation either in the flap or in the main portion of the limb. An irritable state of the parts, connected either with their condition, or dependant on that of the constitution, is very apt to produce inflam-391 mation. This must be obviated by suitable means. If the condition be local, it will generally be found dependant on the operation of some local excitation, which must be removed; we must therefore attend to the position of the parts, to the degree of pressure, to the stitches, the temperature, &c. If dependant on constitutional causes, these must, as far as we can, be obviated by strict attention to the bowels, regulation of the diet, and mild diaphoretics, conjoined, if there be no contra indication, with opiates. Another state of the system, of which susceptibility, or sometimes irritability, forms a part, but not the principal character, is that produced by intem- pex-ance. There is superadded to the irritable state, one of debility, that kind of debility which renders the natural action of a part very ready not only to sink in degree, but to become disordered in quality. In such habits, inflammation of what is called the low kind, is apt to supervene, even on slight injuries, especially if these be accompanied with irrita- tion or contusion. This is also the case in cedematous habits. An opposite condition to this, namely, torpor of the system, may be supposed also to prevent adhesion by incapacitating the surfaces for assuming the necessary action. This, how- ever, I believe, is rarely the case, and torpor, in this view of the matter, exists oftener in speculation than in reality. In almost every instance where it is supposed to operate, it will be found that low inflammation has taken place. Another cause of failure is the preternatural excitement consequent on acute sensation. Wherever there is much pain in divided parts, we are sure that inflammation, not adhesion, is to follow. We ought, therefore, to take the earliest means of allaying sensation. If this depend merely on the particular state of the nervous fibrilli, evinced by the suddenness of the attack, and the absence at first of inflammatory symptoms, we should give immediately a full anodyne, and have recourse to cold or tepid applications, according to their effect. On the other hand, when inflammation, even of what is called the healthy or vigorous kind, is approaching, or has taken place, indicated by the general or local symptoms belonging to it, and already described, we must lose no time in detracting blood, in remov-39 2 ing every thing which can excite, or stimulate the part, either mechanically, or by allowing the heat to accumulate, or otherwise. Cold water, applied with cloths, over light dressings and plasters merely sufficient to keep the parts in contact, is often of signal benefit. As the process of adhesion has been considered merely as a species of inflammation, it may be supposed we should not be anxious to avoid the salutary effect. But although a very slight degree of inflammation may not be incompatible with immediate union, yet it is not in any degree necessary to it; and inflammation existing to such an extent as to exhibit the marked characters of that state, is positively inju- rious. Union, doubtless, may take place, but it is generally accomplished in a secondary way, being preceded by secretion of sero-purulent fluid; and unless this secretion have had the effect of lessening or removing the inflammation, and allowing the adhesive action, in the sense already explained, to take place, it is accomplished by a species of gran ulations. Another circumstance occasioning misconception is, that after adhe- sion has taken place, inflammation may supervene in the neighbouring parts, and yet the intermedium may not die, if it be, as it always is in the healthy process of adhesion, a thin stratum, or unless the inflammation be high. Mr. Hunter, who looked on the process as altogether inflammatory, says, the inflammation may run so high as to kill the extravasated blood or lymph, the two intermedia, in his opinion. But the intermedium is able to bear more action than we may at first suppose, being, if thin and otherwise healthy, sustained or supported by the vigour of the surfaces between which it exists, and with which it is vitally connected. A frequent cause of inflammation, is the surfaces not being kept in contact. This would be of less consequence were the doctrine true, that coagulated blood, or effused lymph, were useful and living soils, into which vessels could shoot and spread luxuriantly. But it is not so. The surfaces must be in contact; there must be little or no extravasation, none which cannot be absorbed, and got out of the way quickly by nature. If the part, by its condition, cannot adhere, it must inflame. If it do not adhere, although no mechanical cause398 possibly prevented it, it must inflame. Ii it do adhere, it seldom inflames, and never to any severe degree, if it be not improperly exasperated. Another circumstance connected both with the accession ol inflammation, and the failure of adhesion, is the thinness and insulation of the divided part. Were a thin tube or canal effectually detached to a certain extent from the neighbouring parts, or a portion of these dissected away from it, a slit made in that canal, in all probability would not adhere, both from the action not being properly supported by the neighbouring parts, and also mechanically from the difficulty or impossi- bility of keeping the thin edges in contact. If a canal be cut, along with thicker parts or coverings, direct union will, with exceptions arising from peculiarity of function, take place; oi’, if it have been detached from the surrounding parts, still, if these be brought again into contact with it, adhesion may take place, first, by the exterior surface of the canal adhering to the surrounding surface applied to it, and, secondly, by the slit itself then healing. But if this circumjacent union do not previously take place, the canal or cavity does not unite. This is a fact important to operating surgeons. If, for example, they extensively and wantonly detach the prostate gland, and bladder in lithotomy, from the neighbouring parts, by working heedlessly with their finger, the wound is more likely to end in a fistula than by adhesion. A slit in a bowel is also healed by adhesion to the neighbouring bowels, an unnatural adhesion, no doubt, but one which is necessary. Having thus explained the natural process of adhesion, I must notice, that adhesion may also be produced by inflam- mation, as a cause. This, which is an unnatural, or diseased process, is quite different from that of direct adhesion, and is manifested variously in different cases. In cavities lined with serous membranes, we find that inflammation may either pro- duce an increased secretion of serum, and a species of dropsy, or an obliteration of the cavity, by coalescence of the surfaces. The occurrence of one or other of these events is not always determined by the actual degree of inflammation. In order to have adhesion produced, the inflammation must destroy the394 iunction fit the same time that it changes the texture of the membrane. This becomes highly vascular, thicker, and furnishes a secretion, or substance, more or less resembling coagulable lymph. If both surfaces be kept in contact, and both have acquired the same action, inosculation of vessels, and conjunction of opposite spots will take place, so that the two former layers of membrane are converted into one, of the nature of a simple investment, and not of a secreting mem- brane. This investment, or new structure, sometimes has the intermedium so completely absorbed, and the two layers, or opposite surfaces, are so perfectly consolidated, that after the lapse of time, they appear to be but one thin membrane common to both sides. But in many other cases, it will be found that the two original layers still remain intimately attached to their respective surfaces; the one, for example, to the surface of the thorax, and the other to the surface of the lungs, whilst they are more loosely connected to one another by mere cellular tissue, which can be easily torn. In all cases the intermedium is very thin, and adhesion does not readily succeed if it be thick. In some instances there is scarcely any intermedium at all, but the vessels directly coalesce; and if the surfaces be easily torn from one another, they bleed, and have a raw, rough, or granulated aspect. In general, however, there is a thin intermedium, which becomes cellular, and thus differs from the intermedium in direct adhesion without inflammation, w’hich by degrees assume the nature of the divided and reunited texture. The intermedium in inflammatory adhesion is not thick, and, fortunately, in gene- ral, becomes cellular; for if it were of the nature of coagulable lymph, and retained this character, it would be more or less of the nature of a new growth or tumour, which has already been considered, and come to have actions of its own, independent of the part from which it grows, or to which it is connected. Such adhesion, then, would never be free from danger, or at least the chance of enlarging, and we never could inject a hydrocele without being apprehensive, at some future time, of a morbid tumour involving the proper substance of the testicle. When there is much coagulable lymph effused,we never have adhesion unless that be absorbed, but we find it sticking to one of the surfaces, whilst between it and the other, more or less serum, or watery fluid, is interposed. Adhe- sion, also, never takes place it any serous fluid be secieted in such quantity as to accumulate, or until it be absorbed. This is well illustrated in inflammation of the eye, which exhibits the changes produced on serous membrane. In this case we find, that if the inflammation be high, the whole surface of the conjunctiva becomes very vascular and tumid, and at last thick and soft like velvet, and here and there we find even some blood extravasated under the membrane, or into its layers, producing deeper coloured spots. Weie the tunica vaginalis of the testicle in this state, adhesion would quickly take place, for any interposed fluid would soon be absorbed, and being furnished by surfaces in a state of inflammation, and tending to union, if the secreting action became at all sus- pended, adhesion would immediately take place. But in the eye this is prevented, for the secretion of tears or fluid still goes on, and insinuates itself between the inflamed surfaces, from a gland which is not impeded in its secretion by the inflamma- tion which there exists, and which continues to act notwith- standing high inflammation of the surfaces. This circumstance of a serous fluid always preventing adhesion, as it must ever mechanically, independently of other ways do, when it con- tinues to be formed by the membrane, accounts for the occasional failure of the attempt to cure hydrocele by injection ; for unless the inflammation run so high as to check the secre- tion, and unless adhesion take place during this high stage, and before the inflammation subside so far as to allow, in any decree, the re establishment of serous secretion, we are sure to have, either over the whole sui'face, or at portions, a failure of adhesion, on which the cure depends. Another mode of effecting union, is by what has been called the second intention, that is by the formation of granulations, which has been already considered under the process of ulceration. I now only advert to it as a mean of closing apertures by a gradual contraction. The principle here is to prevent the introduction of any extraneous substance396 into, or the passage of any fluid through the aperture, and to keep the aperture from cicatrizing, till it contract to a degree productive of obliteration. This would naturally take place if every thing could be prevented from entering the aperture, or the excretion, for instance, passing along the excretory duct, from flowing out by the aperture in its side. It may also occasionally be promoted by touching the part lightly with nitrate of silver. W hen the function of a canal or tube is destroyed, and particularly, if at the same time it be irritated, and its sides allowed to come in contact, it is apt to be obliterated. An excietoiy duct, although obstructed, cannot be obliterated, because it remains distended; an example of which we have in the ductus communis choledochus. But an artery obstructed at any part has its function thereby completely destroyed, and as the blood, which formerly passed through it, gets easily off by the branches above, we find that the portion of the main trunk, between the obstruction and the last branch, con- tracts to a very small diameter; and the little blood that enters this contracted portion, not passing on, coagulates, and acts both as a plug and an irritant. It is absorbed by degiees, but in the same degree the tube contracts still more, in a manner somewhat similar to the contraction in granula- tions. The area is obliterated, the artery is converted into a mere solid cylinder, and often, at last, nothing more than a filament is left to mark its former situation. In this way, for instance, the ductus arteriosus is obliterated, and in this way, every artery which is tied is obliterated, although in the latter case the process is more complex and expeditious, being aided by the excitation of the ligature. Mr. Hunter said, that parts were obliterated or absorbed because they were no longer useful. This is confounding all distinction between final and efficient causes. They are absorbed, because losing their function, they lose their natural action, and fall, partly mechanically, partly vitally, into a state natu- rally, and without either wisdom or deliberation, leading to their alteration and obliteration.397 CHAP. VIII. OF HAEMORRHAGE AND WOUNDED ARTERIES. The direct or immediate consequence of loss of blood is weak- ness, or absolute syncope, which may be fatal. The heart and arteries act feebly, but the pulse is not rendered more frequent. There is singing in the ears, and soon loss of consciousness, and this is often attended with convulsions. If death do not speedily take place, it is usual for the patient to remain a short time in a state of apparent sleep or insensibility, and then to waken as if from a dream, and talk incoherently. The surface becomes pale, and the extremities cold. The stomach also suffers, and it is very usual for the patient to become sick and vomit; all these effects may sometimes be witnessed as follow- ing the operation of venesection. If much blood have been lost, it is evident, that as the vessels cannot be empty, they must during life contract, so as to accommodate themselves to the diminished quantity of their contents. This is a plain, but a most important effect. The arteries have a greater power of contracting than the veins, and therefore they are most affected, and the larger veins, at least, contain nearly as much blood as before, neither is there any proof that the heart receives, and transmits less at each dilatation and contraction. Still the venous system, as a whole, must suffer also, and contain less blood than formerly. Certain portions of the system also are depleted with more difficulty than others. This is the case, I believe, with the vessels of the lungs and abdominal viscera, but particularly of the brain and spinal marrow, which cannot be, by the division of any vessel, emptied. In all animals bled to death, there will be found to be more blood within the cranium, in proportion, than elsewhere, and more venous than arterial blood. It is partly to the actual subduction of the necessary stimulus of blood from the brain, and partly to the unequal and altered distribution of blood in the brain and spinal marrow or their involucra, that we are to attribute the convulsions which sometimes take place in great39S haemorrhage, and the confusion of mind which may attend it. These states of the vessels are peculiarly apt to produce important effects at the base of the cranium, and on the origin of the eighth pair of nerves which go to the stomach. In an erect posture, there is not only less arterial blood sent to the brain, a greater effort being necessary to propel it, but also, as there can be no vacuum, there must be a proportionate accumulation of venous blood, especially about the base of the skull and spinal cord. Hence we have sickness or vomiting produced, and confusion of sight, or blindness, and tinnitus aurium, with palpitation and syncope. Some, then, of the primary effects of haemorrhage are referable to the mere loss of blood, and others to the additional cause ol the unequal distribution of blood, and the consequence of this to the parts affected. If much blood have been lost, and yet the patient survive, one of the plainest effects must be the necessary contraction of the vascular, but particularly of the arterial system, and this is just as certainly a source of excitation as an incieased distention would have been. Viewing the consequences, then, merely as confined to the organs of circulation, we should expect a state of excitation to be speedily produced. But the consequences are not restricted to the vascidai system, for this cannot be affected for any length of time, or to any considerable degree, without acting on the nervous or sentient system, and this comes next to be excited, and the mutual action of the one on the other produces an increased effect, and, as a secondary consequence, sensibility comes to be increased. We have thus frequency of pulse,, irregular action of the heart, heat of the skin, pain or throbbing in the head, &c.; and thus it happens, that we may actually bleed a person into’ a state of fever. But besides these regular remote or secondary effects of haemorrhage, we may have, from the state induced in the brain and medulla spinalis, effects produced on distant parts supplied by nerves coming off from the por- tions of these chiefly influenced. The previous state of parti- cular organs, predisposition, peculiarity of sympathy, the action of local excitement, and many other circumstances,399 may give rise to special symptoms, and even lead to formi- dable topical disease. Very slight causes may thus occasion local inflammation ; and in the case of wounds, if great care be not taken to remove all local irritation or excitement, and promote adhesion, the part may inflame, mortify, or sup- purate extensively, or become very unhealthy, from the state of the system thus induced. The immediate effect of haemorrhage or the debility, is to be attributed to the loss of a natural stimulus, but it is one of a particular kind, not merely necessary as an agent of excitement, but it is also the very pabulum of vitality or ani- mal life, and nervous energy itself; every one part of the system suffers by the loss, but some more than others, and the very diminution of distention of the vessels is the abatement of a former excitement. In so far as mere excitation is con- cerned, we may,'within limits, find a substitute for that of the blood, but in other views there can be no supplying the place of the arterial fluid. Cordials may, within a certain extent, do good, by substituting one kind of stimulus for another, and thus preventing immediate and fatal exhaustion, but it is quite evident that if the loss be great, or the effect great, they cannot even for a short time suspend the sinking; still they constitute our chief remedy, and must be given with a free- dom and a frequency proportioned to necessity; wine and brandy ai*e the two best, and they may be given alone or mixed with warm water, according to the temperature-of the patient, and the failure of the stomach. They act first of all on the stomach, and through its nerves on the whole nervous sys- tem. rI heir effect, however, is fugacious, and that in propor- tion to the effect of the haemorrhage; and, therefore, they must be frequently repeated and persevered in, till the system have rallied and so far accommodated itself to the loss of blood, as to allow us to dispense with them. This we judge of by the pulse being more steady, the stomach more comfortable, the heat more natural. Opium is also a valuable cordial, for it really stimulates the system, and not only does so, but seems to promote the restoration of animal heat, and lessen the uncomfortable feelings produced by the unnatural state oftoo the vascular system. In other words, it tranquillises the frame, and is also a mean of checking vomiting, or depress- ing nausea, when these exist. The tincture should first be given in a little brandy, as it acts more quickly than solid opium, but the latter must afterwards be given, if the tinc- ture be vomited; opium is always safe if there be no idio- syncrasy, but cordials must not be pushed farther than necessary, because they subsequently increase the febrile state which may take place. They also ought, if possible, to be avoided till the opened vessels be secured. Other measures also ought to be resorted to. The heat is to be preserved by warm coverings or heated applications made to the pit ol the stomach, back, and extremities, Bvery effort on the pait of the patient is to be avoided, and a recumbent posture strictly observed, if the nature of the wound do not render respiration difficult in that position. This treatment proceeds on the twofold object ol avoiding farther exhaustion, and ol substituting other stimuli for the more natural one which has been lost. But a third and very important object presents itself, namely, to replenish the vessels. We cannot, however, do this rapidly; we cannot throw so much liquid, warm water itself, into the stomach, as if absorbed, would speedily fill the vascular system with watery blood. Still we do noi lose sight of the object, and give at frequent intervals, if there be no contra-indication, such quantities of soup or animal jelly, or arrow-root, 8cc. as can be retained and digested ; and when the stomach can well retain what it receives, we allow the patient to quench his thirst freely with toast-water, lemonade, or plain water, knowing that thereby the vessels shall at least be better distended, and that in proportion to the absorption. This being an object, it may be asked whe- ther we should not rather open a vein, and inject into it the blood of another person, or even a little tepid water. llie proposals are feasible, and the first has oltener than once been done, but as yet we have too little experience to enable us to decide whether it can be greatly relied on, or may ever do harm; assuredly, when the limmorrhage has been great and the danger is urgent, it cannot add to the hazard, whilst4.01 it may prove a salutary stimulus. We must take great care that no air be injected with the blood. The treatment of the primary effects of haemorrhage is sim- ple, although not always successful; but that of the secondary is more complicated. We have evidently a condition of great debility with one of general, often complicated with local, excitement, and the effect on an wound must be most import- ant. The general excitation, not always correctly called irri- tation, can only be removed by time ; but it may be mitigated, and its removal hastened, by avoiding every thing which can exasperate, or increase the excitement: a state of rest, there- fore, for some time, in a recumbent posture, is useful, and then we are gradually to accustom the patient first to sit erect, and next to stand and move a little, but not so as to keep up palpitation. The bowels are to be brought into a regular state, and kept in that, which has a great effect not only on the system at large, but particularly in lessening the uneasy throbbing and pain in the head. Next, we are to use means for cautiously renewing the quantity of blood and restoring the vigour of the system, by the use of mild nourishment, given as often as the stomach can bear without exacerbation of fever or increase of unpleasant feelings, and as can be digested. There can be no objection to the exhibition of certain medicines called tonics, if these agree, such as quinine, bitters, mineral acids, &c. but these are of subordinate utility, and diet, with good air, and gradual efforts to exercise the strength, are principally to be relied on. Hence, if no untoward chcumstance inter- vene, the patient not very incorrectly connects his restoration with time and care, rather than with physic. But farther, as there is early a state of excitement marked by the febrile symptoms I have noticed, and by frequency of pulse, which is only a secondary effect, and dependant on the state induced in the cardiac nerves by the condition of the vessels, it may be necessary to sooth the system and allay sensibility by opiates, unless these disagree with the patient. Lastly, the sympathetic or remote effects must be attended to and coun- teracted. If there be symptoms of local inflammation, it may be necessary to detract blood by leeches, or cupping; nay, it 2 n , _ . 1402 may even be requisite to take blood from the arm, but this always requires great caution. Blisters are more frequently useful, and a small part may be kept open by savin ointment. Laxatives and mild diaphoretics are also proper, and very soon quinine, or light tonics, may be used. If there have been an extensive wound, every effort must be made to pro- mote adhesion, and if that fail, to establish suppuration, during which the strength must be supported. If the constitution have been previously disordered, and particularly if the wound have been lacerated, or fretted, all irritation must be shunned, for erysipelas, followed by gangrene, is to be appre- hended : such a case is to be treated on the principles recom- mended for the cure of the low or irritable inflammation. An artery consists of different layers, the innermost of which is a prolongation of the lining of the left side ol the heart. It is very thin, transparent, of a whitish colour, desti- tute both of fibres and of cellular substance. Its internal surface is smooth and polished, like serous membranes, but it is much more fragile or brittle. In the dead subject, when the empty artery is slit up, its surface is found to be moist- ened by a peculiar fluid, characterized by some as unctuous. It adheres, though slightly, to the next coat, by pellucid fibrili. This next coat, or the second, counting from within, is of a peculiar texture, which has been denominated, by Bichat, arterial tissue. It is the muscular coat of others. If we carefully inspect the fibres of this coat, which aie divisible into strata, we shall find, as my brother has observed, two species in its texture. The one of a pale red, and the othei of a yellowish colour. In youth, the former ; in old age, the latter predominate. It is made up of fibres, which pass in a circular direction, but do not go completely around the artery, being rather obliquely connected and interlaced. These fibres are united by a slender intermedium, which yields to a force applied in a circular, but resists more power- fully when applied in a longitudinal direction. It is totally destitute of cellular substance, for the cellular coat does not plunge into the interstices of the arterial tissue or fibre, and also, according to Bichat, of muscular fibre, consisting ol a10S peculiar elastic texture. It would rather appear, however, to be of a compound nature, made up partly of elastic and partly of muscular fibre; the proportion of the former pre- dominating in the trunks and larger branches, that of the latter in the smaller ones. Dr. Thomson has examined the composition of artery, and, like Berzelius, says it is destitute of fibrin, and resembles entirely, in its characters, the liga- mentum nuchae, but it is not yet proved that muscular con- traction is a property exclusively belonging to fibrin. The third coat, the one immediately exterior to this peculiar tex- ture, is described as being altogether cellular. It is dense, filamentous, and not laminated, and seems so firm and com- pact that, by some, it has been thought membranous, by others tendinous, by others entirely cellular, without fat. It is the cellular, the tendinous, or the vascular coat of different writers, and some even include with it the sheath or cellular attachment to other parts, and divide it therefore into three layers. Lobstein considers it, on the other hand, as almost entirely composed of nervous fibrili, running in a longitu- dinal direction. A microscope, says he, magnifying sixty times, demonstrates the “tela cellulosa” enveloping the lingual, external maxillary, and other arteries, “ Nil erit nisi rete nervosum.” Bichat notices the resemblance of the plexus of nerves to a real theca, but says it is grayish, whilst the cellular coat is whiter. It is, he thinks, deficient in the arteries of the extremities, and only distinct on those supplied from ganglions. The vasa vasorum run in the cellular coat, but do not in health penetrate to the inner membrane, at least cannot be injected; but in disease we find this membrane red, owing to the vessels being seen through it. The cellular coat is so strong that a force which lacerates those below it, does not mechanically injure it. It is somewhat elastic, and is con- sidered as affording the chief strength to the artery, in a longitudinal direction. The fibres of the inner surface of this are firm, connected, and strong, but the outer surface is looser, and adheres laxly to that cellular kind of sheath which serves as an intermedium of connexion between the neighbouring parts and the proper coat of the artery. This404 extraneous coat, called the sheath, is shaggy, loose, and com- posed of cells, containing in young subjects a serous, in adults a more fatty substance. This intermedium adheres loosely to the cellular coat of the artery, so that when a large artery is to be tied, we sometimes cannot readily or neatly put the ligature around it, till this sheath, for a little way, be slit up. This sheath varies both in density and structure in different parts. Thus the femoral artery, as it passes out from the pelvis, is accompanied by a production of the fasciae of the pelvis and transversalis, forming a distinct sheath, into which it enters, but which becomes more cellular as the artery descends, though still maintaining the character of a sheath. Besides this sheath of the arteries we often find another cover- ing, fixing and defending them still more. To take the femo- ral artery still as an example, we find a firm expansion pass- ing over it, and its proper sheath, which is a continuation of the fascia from the vastus internus to the triceps, and this must be slit before the artery can be exposed, and may also have an influence on wounds of the vessels. But the pecu- liar connexion and relations of individual vessels will come to be considered with more advantage hereafter. The different coats of an artery possess different properties, both in health and disease. Those which are exterior to the arterial coat, and contain much cellular texture, are of much importance. They convey the vessels and nerves, and con- nect the artery to the neighbouring parts, so that, if extensively detached, it is insulated, its vessels torn, its supply of pabulum cut off, its action impaired, and it falls into a state of low inflammation, ending either in slough, or an unhealthy species of suppuration, commonly called ulceration of the artery, both of which are attended with the same effect of opening the vessel, and producing haemorrhage. The cellular coats are susceptible of inflammation and all its consequences, each of which, except adhesion, must be hazardous or fatal to the coats below, inasmuch as the supply of blood by the vasa vasorum is cut off1. Nothing then can be worse than suppu- ration of this coat of an artery. The cellular coat, from the nerves it contains, or forms a bed for, ought to be sensible,405 and a patient often complains much when an artery is tied ; yet Bichat affirms, that in no instance does irritation oi any kind, applied to the surface of an artery, give pain, but if irritating fluids be applied to the internal membrane, pain is produced ; indeed, he carries his assertion so far as to main- tain, that arteries have very little sympathy with other parts, and are rarely the seat of acute or chronic affections; and yet we know that very extensive inflammation may take place in that system. • That they are destitute of irritability, 01 sensible contractility, must follow from his belief that they are not muscular. Home also endeavours to establish that an artery acts not by irritability, but by the influence of the nerves. The cellular coat is less easily torn than those below, but it cannot resist the force of the blood, and therefore yields and dilates when these give way. The internal coat is very easily cut by a force which does not injure the rest; it is also liable to inflammation. The arterial tissue is also liable to ossification, and subject to inflammation, but not so readily as the internal membrane, nor does it spread so quickly, or so easily along it. It may suppurate, but granulates with difficulty, if at all. Bichat says arteries inflame with diffi- culty, even when in an inflamed texture, else where would be the security for the continuance of circulation ? This is quite a fallacy, or at best proves no more than that inflammation does not readily spread from an inflamed organ along the arteries; but neither does it along the nerves or other tex- tures. The arteries, in the inflamed texture, are agents in the action, not the subjects of it, they, therefore, although disordered, and constituting an integral part of the inflamed texture, are not to be expected surely to be themselves inflamed; as well might we expect the vasa vasorum of the renal artery to fill that with urine. An Avounded artery so rarely heals otherwise than by the total obliteration of the canal or tube, that it may, notwithstanding a few exceptions, be set down as an axiom, that no artery when opened does ever cease to pour out blood, so long as it remains a tube. The very means necessary for stanching the blood, the pres-sure requisite for the security of the patient, can hardly fail to produce obliteration ; and whatever the result of experi- ments on animals may be, I doubt if half a dozen authenti- cated cases Can be brought forward from all the records of surgery, where an wounded artery has permanently healed without obliteration. If, indeed, the artery be punctured through a superjacent vein, and steady, but moderate com- pression be immediately resorted to, it is possible that the pressure may be just sufficient, with the aid of a small coagu- lum in the wound of the artery and vein, or a coagulum within the vein, to restrain the haemorrhage, and even prevent blood from flowing into the vein, and yet it may not be so great as to stop quite the circulation along the tube of the artery; and the coagulum being slowly absorbed, and in the same proportion the wound contracting and coalescing, the tube may be once more made entire. But more frequently the coagulum also occupies the vein, which becomes obliterated at the spot, and forms a cord, which, adhering to the artery, closes its aperture, and the circulation continues in the tube. I have seen such cases, and it is the circumstance of the blood being confined within the venous tube, and not diffused into cellular substance, and distending it, which renders the cure more likely. On the other hand, where an artery is wounded directly, and not through a vein, the blood is diffused, and so much pressure is requisite to stop the farther effusion, that the sides are quite squeezed together, and adhesion, or obliter- ation, takes place. The effect, however, of interruption of the function of an artery in causing obliteration may be counteracted by low inflammation, or other diseased states of the internal coat. There may be extensive inflammation, and yet no obliteration, but, on the contrary, a positive prevention of it. It can only cease to bleed by ceasing to be pervious. Some arteries become readily obliterated, some do not, after beino- wounded. In some, therefore, we shall have a natural Cure°; in others, if art do not interfere, all the consequences which can result from continued haemorrhage must take place. This difference in the result takes place, ceteris paribus, from407 the comparative size of the wounded artery, and it may be useful to inquire into the process by which an artery is obliterated. It is necessary to consider well the consequences of an wound of an artery; and there can be little hesitation in starting with the assertion, that all wounds do impair the circulation, and some of them prevent altogether the trans- mission of blood by the wounded trunk; and, according to the degree of interruption, will be the immediate effect of producing a cold and pulseless state of the limb. I offer the following observations for illustration of the case : First, The artery may be punctured, or partially wounded. In this case blood is immediately effused over the vessel which is covered, if not surrounded by blood, if the external wound be closed. The artery pours out into the sac thus formed by the extravasated blood more and more in proportion as the parts admit of distention, but it does not do so constantly and unremittingly. A coagulum forms in the orifice of the vessel, and over it, so that virtually the canal, though narrowed, is for a time rendered once more entire. If the circulation be languid, or the artery not powerfully acted on, it is ascertained that a very small coagulum may prevent the flow. Thus, even in the femoral artery, no haemorrhage may take place when the wound of the thigh is enlarged or the bloody sac opened, and this not from the calibre of the vessel being plugged with blood, for it is still transmitting blood, as we discover from the effect of applying a ligature below the wound or puncture, for then the blood spouts out; and this transmission of blood, and interruption of the flow into the sac, or by the wound, may be greatly assisted by the sheath of the artery coming to supply, in part, the deficiency of the proper coat of the artery by overlapping the orifice in the tube, or confining blood between itself and the artery and causing a clot. If, on the other hand, the inside have been filled with a clot, and the circulation interrupted at the time, no instant renewal follows the ligature. The same happens if the sides of the vessel have been so compressed by a coagulum externally, as not to have permitted, at the time, the circulation, even in a slight408 degree, or small stream, to go on. So long as the coagulum acts, the flow is restrained. Second, The artery may either be completely torn across, or so injured as to reduce it, in so far as the power of con- veying blood is concerned, into the same state. The retracted ends are buried in the remains of the sheath, and are very irregularly and indefinitely connected with the bloody cavity formed under the fascia and among the muscles. We can easily conceive how the blood, were there no powerful resistance, could flow from the upper orifice, although that might be interwoven with clots and shreds of lacerated substance. But the under one, under these circumstances, has not the same capability, of gaping to receive the blood, that the upper one has to throw it out. If the under orifice had that capability, the enlargement of the bloody cavity would not only soon stop, but the circulation would go on freely in the original trunk, and no change could be effected on the collateral branches. I take the decided ground that when an artery is cut, or torn across, no blood passes from the one end into the other, and the direct circulation is instantly checked, as effectually as if a ligature had been applied. For a period, at least, the lower limb can only be supplied by blood sent . on by the collateral branches; and were the sac at this period opened, blood would be seen to issue directly from the upper, and, by a retrograde course, from the under orifice. Third, As this retrograde circulation, from the lower ori- fice, is feeble, it might be expected that a moderate resistance should restrain it, and that such a resistance might readily be afforded by a clot, and then we should have only to look to the upper orifice as the cause of the tumour increasing. The fascia and muscles, and layers of coagulum in the sac, must come to afford, at last, a resistance to farther increase, and then the whole blood in the sac, slowly coagulating, would check entirely the flow from the end of the artery, and lead to a natural cure. But this is quite a groundless supposition, for the sac is not stationary in its progress, nor does the upper end of the artery become filled with a clot, and then permanently obliterated. A temporary obstruction409 may exist, but it is soon displaced, and the smallest quantity of blood flowing from the orifice, even once a day, would pre- vent the cure. Fourth, But the hope of a natural cure is farther dimin- ished by a change which may take place in the condition of the under orifice. This is not shut up after the injury, but can transmit blood in a retrograde way, although its unfavour- able entanglement, in a mesh of lacerated substance and clots, may prevent it from receiving blood. But when, after a time, the cavity, formed by the effused blood, or the false aneurism, as it has been called, comes to be defined and lined by fibrin and layers of coagulum, the mouth of the infeiioL division of the artery becomes more regularly and smoothly connected with the sac, and now, if that be laid open, both oi’ifices are found leading into a defined, though not regu- larly shaped sac, and are connected with it by a continu- ous surface, formed by fibrin and solid blood, and at this period, and under these circumstances, arterial blood may pass from the upper orifice through the sac, and thence by the under orifice down into the limb which thus is supplied not only by the enlarged collateral branches, as happened in the first stage, but also by a direct circulation, which will thus check the increase of the sac, and, likewise, the progressive enlargement of the collateral branches, in a degree propor- tioned to the renewal of the direct circulation, and put a com- plete stop to all hopes of a spontaneous cure. This circumstance of the extremity of an artery becoming continuous, with an expansion of fibrin, is of importance to be attended to in those cases where the sac is opened, for the purpose of tying the wounded vessel. If the ligature be applied around this fibrinous mouth of the vessel, or rather appendage to it, the substance is immediately torn, or if it were not, no adhesion being capable of taking place, the ligature would soon come off, and the bleeding be renewed. In all cases, therefore, where the mouth of the vessel is to be exposed, we must be sure that we really have removed the coating of fibrin, and have laid hold of, or insulated the tube or vessel itself. It also follows, that in all cases where we410 open the cavity or sac which has been produced, or enlarge the wound at the moment, and before a false aneurism have formed, we must tie both ends of the artery, if we wish to be secure from haemorrhage. Fifth, It is not to be supposed that all wounds of an artery can run the same course. Some, sooner than others, may transmit blood directly, others do so partially from the first, and some never do so. The reason of this may be learned from what I have said; and I now particularly remark that the cellular sheath of the artery may, in certain cases of punc- tured and oblique wounds, have the aperture turned aside from that of the proper tube of the artery, and a coagulum forming between them in consequence of the detention of blood, produced by this want of correspondence, the flow of blood out of the sheath may be retarded, or for a time pre- vented, and more or less may pass down along and within the arterial canal. But, sooner or later, in all large arteries, this coagulum, which, at best, is but an uncertain and tempo- rary obstacle, is displaced to a greater or less extent, and blood is effused in a greater degree, under the aponeurosis of the limb, or flows from the external wound. If this dis- placement do not take place, and the orifice in the sheath be small, the sheath distends and forms a circumscribed sac, lined with coagulum, and, for a time, restoring, though imperfectly, the integrity of the tube and keeping up a circu- lation. In no case can we look for a cure so long as blood in any, even the smallest quantity, can flow from the superior aperture; and it can only do so either by a portion of the blood which is poured into the sac, finding its way out, or by the sac itself gradually enlarging, so as to prevent the aperture from ever being closed, there being, if not regularly, at least at short intervals, a little blood emitted from the orifice. Sixth, A false aneurism may or may not pulsate, according to circumstances. If the nature of the wound in the artery be such as to permit any thing like transmission of the blood along the punctured tube, or from one orifice to another of a divided, or partially divided artery, the pulsation must be strong and distinct. Even when blood does not find its way411 along the tube, if it be partially emitted into the sac, or if the artery be imbedded at the bottom of the sac, pulsation may continue, but not always, in the same way. It blood be poured into the sac in any degree, or be in any degree trans- mitted through it, there will be pulsation in the sac as in a true aneurism. But if little or no blood enter the sac, but the artery at its bottom pulsate, that pulsation may be com- municated to the sac, as to any other tumour. There is motion or pulsation of the sac rather than in it. When, on the other hand, the sac is tense, and well lined with coagula, and the blood passes with scarcely any impetus along the tube within it, and rather oscillates than flows even in a small stream from the orifice, the pulsation stops, although the artery be not obliterated. It thus happens, that a false aneurism at fffst may pulsate strongly, and after a time may cease to pulsate at all, yet without any tendency to a natural cure. And farther, if, by the more defined connexion of the inferior aperture of a divided, or partially divided artery, which may take place by the coat of effused fibrin, any thing like a direct transmission be re-established, the pulsation may again return. Seventh, It follows, from the view I have given, that there are two obstacles to the natural cure or obliteration of the artery, namely, a partial transmission of blood from the sac into the inferior aperture, or along the tube, in a case of punc- ture, and the continuation of a little blood flowing even at intervals from the upper orifice into the dilatable sac; and were it not for this second cause, it is evident that a com- plete division, or entire and lacerated rupture of an arterial trunk, might often be cured spontaneously by the blood coagu- lating in the sac or cavity. The orifice or tube of the artery does not become very rapidly obliterated, and therefore, although we had the transmission along the upper end of either a punctured or divided artery suspended for many hours, yet the tube is not contracted, nor its sides in contact nor the process of adhesion or obliteration even begun. The first effort to displace the clot succeeds, and if even a spoonful of blood flow, the patient is no better than lie was a week before412 Even tying the artery below the wound cannot in this case cure the disease, for there is a bag or cavity among the muscles capable of increasing, and sure, whatever we do, so long as the portion above the wound is pervious, not only to increase, but also to assume a diseased action, and become inflamed, and sooner or later afterwards to burst or sphacelate. A true aneurism, one limited by the coats of the aiteiy, though diseased, and partially ruptured, and by the sheath still entire and thickened, is rarely cured by nature, notwithstanding this limitation ; but woe be to the man who trusts to the spontaneous cure of a false aneurism ! Eighth, As a false aneurism may or may not pulsate, so also it may or may not be capable of diminution by pressure. It is only when there is a well defined communication between the mouth of the artery and the sac, by means of a layer of fibrin, pure, or mixed with coagulum, that pressure can lessen the quantity of blood contained. We never can empty a false aneurism, and often cannot make any impression on it. No degree of pressure indeed can diminish its size after it has become large; for even it there be a defined or regular aper- ture leading to the artery, the coagulation of the blood on the inner surface of the sac so hardens it, that we have a tumour unequally firm or hard, formed; and this, like other tumours, ultimately inflames, and either bursts at the mos? prominent part by sloughing, or by a mixture of suppurationand gangrene. Ninth, In a matter of so much importance, I would wish to prevent all misconception, and, therefore, distinctly lay it down as a proposition, that it is not the mere coagulation of blood in a sac, whether the aneurism be true or false, that effects the cure, but it is the cessation of the passage of blood along the upper portion of the sound artery, and the stop- page of all flow from it into the sac. A true and a false aneu- rism are very different, in so far as the state of the vessel and of this process of cessation are concerned. If we can coagu- late the whole blood in the sac of a true aneurism, we are pretty sure that the blood within the arterial tube leading to it will coagulate also up to a certain limit, which will lead to an obliteration. But if even in this true aneurism such413 an obliteration did not take place, we should, granting the sac to be made quite solid by coagulation, and afterwards diminished by absorption of the contents, still be insecure, for the blood would flow to the very confines of the diseased part, and there would be danger of an enlargement there. If in true aneurism we might, after this partial cure, have a renewal of the disease, we are still worse off in the false aneu- rism ; for even were the blood to be altogether coagulated in the sac, and for a little way within the arterial tube, still there is not the same distinct resistance afforded to the vis a tergo, the same firm support given to the coagulum in the artery, the same continued or prolonged cessation of all motion of the blood, and, therefore, obliteration cannot happen; and, on the other hand, we have, as already noticed, disease induced in all the parts connected with the bloody cavity, and in some instances, ultimately a mixture of aneurism and of suppuration, ending perhaps in gangrenous inflammation of the vicinity. Tenth, When the blood is prevented from passing along the main trunk, either by a ligature, a complete division, or any other cause, the anastomosing or collateral branches come, in consequence of this obstruction, to enlarge, and, presently, the lower part of the limb is fully supplied with blood. This circuitous renewal of circulation may, howevei', not take place so soon, or so effectually, as to prevent the limb from suffering, perhaps, from dying, especially if it have been previously diseased or weak in its nervous power; on the other hand, the enlargement of the collateral branches, imply- ing action in an increased degree, that may be more than the power of the limb can bear, and mortification takes place. But the parts die, not, as in the former case, by failure or direct sinking, dependant on mere want of nourishment, but from an excitement higher than the part can bear, or a degree of inflammation. In all cases where the circulation is to be carried on by the enlargement of anastomosing branches, the temperature rises, soon after the trunk is obstructed or divided; but, in favourable cases, the elevation is gradual and moderate, and not attended with pain, or redness, or lividity of the extreme parts of the limb. WThen an artery, then, is414 wounded, and a false aneurism formed, we may judge of the interruption to the direct circulation, by the fall of the tem- perature, and the failure of the pulsation below the injury, and, when the heat and pulsation return, we may be sure that the circulation, direct or indirect, has also returned. The collateral branches can only enlarge if the trunk be obstructed, or in proportion to the failure of direct circulation, and the impossibility of blood issuing from the upper orifice of a divided artery into the sac. If the sac enlarge rapidly, the action of the collateral branches is not increased nor their size enlarged. If the vessel be torn across, and the circula- tion be interrupted, it would, from these principles, seem to follow, that if the limb did not soon suffer or perish, we should, if the external wound were closed, have the branches immediately enlarging, and ought therefore to delay tying the trunk for some time, that they might acquire a greater size. But this is a mistake. If the vessel be quite divided, and the direct circulation destroyed, our ligature cannot make it less, and must have the same effect, that the laceration should have, in directing the current to the branches, whilst Ave have the advantage of operating on a limb comparatively in a sound state. If we delay, in the hope that the branches shall enlarge more, we find that, even if they did so, the sac also enlarges, the muscles are more separated, the fascia more distended, and the blood finding its way, more or less, from the upper orifice into the sac, retards the enlargement of the collateral branches. On the other hand, if the artery be only partially injured, and still come to transmit, more or less, blood along its trunk, there is, to the same extent, a retarda- tion of the enlargement of the branches. Every principle, then, of sound surgery, would call for the early performance of the operation, and point out not merely the inutility, but the danger of delay. Whether we should enlarge the wound, and tie both ends of the artery where it has been injured, or expose the trunk higher, and put a ligature around it, will come soon to be noticed. If we wish to know the most natural mode in which an artery is obliterated, we must attend to the ductus arteriosus,4-15 and to the continuation of the epigastric vessels constituting the umbilical arteries. The moment that blood cannot find a free passage through an artery, the vessel begins to con- tract. Its function is gradually impaired, and presently it ceases to be both an artery and a tube. When the t\vo sides of the heart and the aorta can be readily filled, as in the post-natal condition, little or no blood passes by the ductus arteriosus. Its function gradually ceases, and it becomes impervious. When blood can no longer pass freely by the umbilical vessels in the cord, the function of the umbilical arteries, down to the last branch of the hypogastric, ceases. It does not appear that this cessation of circulation and con- sequent obliteration is effected by tbe tube becoming plugged with coagulated blood, but rather by the absolute contraction of the vessel itself, although I am willing to admit that the presence of coagulated blood, or of effused lympb, especially towards the extremity of the contracted portion, may accele- rate the obliteration. Still, I maintain that the contraction alone will be sufficient to stop the flow of blood, and the ces- sation of the function adequate to the destruction of the tube. To proceed purely on matter of fact, without explanation, I maintain that there is no example recorded, or capable of being produced, where the passage of blood through an artery previously healthy, has been suspended beyond a very limited period, without the complete and perfect obliteration from the obstructed point back to near the next branch. How long it takes to obliterate the ductus arteriosus, or the continu- ation of the hypogastric arteries, it is not easy positively to determine, else we could readily decide the period required for this mode of closing an artery. It may possibly be several weeks, if the impediment be slight, and the blood allowed even to oscillate in the tube.* Obstruction then to the passage of blood, or a destruction of the functions of an * It is needless practically to enter into an inquiry of the cause why the blood ceases to pass along the ductus arteriosus. It may readily be explained on mechanical principles, and does not require the fanciful con- jecture of Bichat, that it shrinks from the stimulus of a new kind of blood Does a vein in varicose aneurism refuse to admit a new kind of blood ?416 artery, produces, first a contraction, and then an obli- teration of its canal. It is converted into a solid rope, which is gradually made thinner by absorption. In cases of wound, how is this obstruction effected ? The coagulation of the blood is so evident an attendant, and so apparently fitted mechanically to shut the vessel, that it is not surprising that it should, from remote times, have been considered as the imme- diate cause. Albucasis advises the artery to be compressed with the finger until the blood congeal, and Lanfranc says the pressure should be continued for an hour. Fabricius adopts the same opinion, and gives the same advice, but directs the attention to two different portions of coagulum, one lying within, the other without the vessel, “ obstruitur osculum, vel intrinsecus, vel extrinsecus.” Little attention, however, seems to have been paid to the distinction till Petit, in 1731, revived and explained, more at large, the doctrine. He gives us, however, nothing new, except terms, calling the internal clot, buchon, the external, couvercle. He likewise notices that the internal clot may be formed by lymph, which he considers as preferable to that formed by blood. A few years afterwards, Morand said, that if the clot could suspend the haemorrhage for some time, the permanent cure was to be looked for from the artery contracting and cicatrizing, but he wasmore inclined to attribute theimmediate cause to the corru- gation or froncement of the artery, so that it became thicker, and its mouth shut up. T. his, he supposed, erroneously, to arise from the shortening of the longitudinal fibres. Mr. Sharp, without entering into theory, plainly says, the bleeding con- tinues till the arteries contract and withdraw themselves, and their extremities be shut up with coagulated blood. Pouteau looked on both, viz. the coagulation of blood and the contrac- tion of the vessel, merely as subsidiary circumstances not always occurring, and ascribed the cessation of the haemor- rhage to the pressure made on the artery by the swelling of the neighbouring cellular substance around its extremity, and says the ligature is useful by promoting a more immediate and extensive induration of that substance, which is just as correct as to say an experienced general obtains the417 victory by the aid of his drummer. Mr. Kirkland, Mr. White, and others, attribute the cure entirely to the collapse or contraction of the artery, which closes itself up to the nearest branch. Mr. John Bell says that it is neither con- traction, retraction, nor clot, which obliterates the vessel, but embraces an opinion similar to that of Pouteau, that the cel- lular substance around the artery, being injected with blood, presses on its tube, at the same time that loss of blood lessens the vis a tergo; finally, the parts inflame, and the artery is obliterated. Dr. Jones, in 1805, made several experiments on horses and dogs, which show that all of these causes have an influence. The immediate effects of a division of an artery are an impetuous flow of blood, a sudden and strong retraction of the artery within its sheath, and a slight contrac- tion of its extremity. The blood which flows from the retracted artery passes out from the sheath, and flows on the ground, or is extravasated into the surrounding cellular membrane, according to the state of the external wound. By degrees the blood begins to coagulate in the canal formed by the sheath of the artery, and thus presently fills that canal, and closes the mouth of the divided vessel itself. The blood then coagulates w-ithin the artery, and forms a slender clot which neither completely fills the canal nor adheres to its sides, except by a very small portion near the extremity of the vessel. He thus, like Fabricius and Petit, describes two coagula, the one internal and the other external. In the meantime the artery inflames, and lymph is poured out, which, being retained by the coagula, is supposed still farther to plug the vessel, and, aided by a gradual contraction of the diameter, ends in a permanent obliteration. The same circumstances take place in the infe- rior portion of the divided artery, only its orifice is more contracted, and the external coagulum smaller. The artery becomes impervious up to the next branch, whilst the collateral branches enlarge and anastomose. If the artery be of con- siderable size, few animals survive the immediate loss of blood, and those who do, seem only to be saved by the languor of the circulation. When an artery is only punctured, or par- tially divided, a natural cure is more readily effected in ani- 2 E418 mals. Little has been added to our practical knowledge, however, since the time of Haller and Petit. Longitudinal wounds are attended with comparatively small separation of their sides. Oblique wounds have a separation in proportion to their extent, whilst transverse wounds separate so much as to become circular; they are, therefore, the worst of all wounds. Various experiments have been made on dogs and other animals, to ascertain the precise effects of different degrees of injury, but these cannot be considered as applicable to the human subject, for, in man, arterial wounds are much more difficult to control or heal. There is one circumstance, however, which I believe is common to all, namely, that if the sheath of the artery be not removed, the immediate effects are less rapid than if it be, and, where a natural cure is possible, it may take place in the former case with a degree of injuiy which would prove destructive in the latter. An artery punc- tured with a needle pours out a small quantity of blood, but the puncture heals, and leaves no trace of its existence. A longitudinal slit to the length of a line in the femoral arteiy of a dog, the sheath being removed, produced a small jet, which at last stopped, and on examination a coagulum was found between the lips of the wound, which were a little thickened by infiltration of blood. W hen the sheath was not removed, the haemorrhage was very feeble, and an ecchymosis took place in the sheath. In this case the cure is accom- plished on the principle I have alluded to in noticing an wound of an artery through a vein. A slit between two to three lines in length, the sheath being removed, produced fatal haemorrhage; the sheath not being removed no great haemor- rhage took place, but a swelling by effusion into the sheath was° produced, which gradually disappeared within three weeks, before which time the external wound had healed. On killing the dog, the artery exhibited, externally, a little white tumour adhering strongly to it and to the sheath, and cover- ing the site of the wound. Internally, it exhibited a round depressed cicatrix, which could not be separated by macera- tion. The canal was pervious. This experiment confirms that of Dr. Jones, who says, that on killing a dog in little419 more than a month after the artery had been thus wounded, the injured spot was found covered with thickened cellular membrane, which, when dissected off, showed the artery to be sound, and so pervious, that it was fully injected. It was also found that oblique and transverse wounds, if they did not extend beyond one-fourth of the circumference of the artery, healed in like manner with little or no obstruction. The experiments of Beclard show, that if the wound be one-fourth of the circumference, it becomes circular, and sti’aitens a little the caliber, if one-half, eliptical, if three-fourths, the separ- ation is very great, and the caliber is considerably reduced. In all of these, if the sheath remain, a part of the lateral open- ing is covered by it, and the centre only of the arterial open- ing corresponds to that of the sheath, so that the actual aperture through which blood can flow externally, is from this want of correspondence, less than that made in the artery. The haemorrhage is stopped by a coagulum formed between the sheath and the artery, and kept firm by the sheath. This becomes gradually firmer and whiter, and by the time it is absorbed, a cicatrix is formed. This takes place with more or less certainty according to the extent of the wound, for if three-fourths, even one-half, of the circumference be divided, if the animal survive the haemorrhage, obliteration is apt to take place. Dr. Jones seems to refer this to the tendency to retract, which either tears the undivided part, or causes its destruction by irritation. All agree, that in dogs and horses it is very difficult to produce aneurism; they either die, or recover completely. From my own observation on the horse, - I would say, that an wound of the femoral artery was mortal. In the human subject, we have numerous instances of a natural cure of a wounded artery. But I once more repeat, that this cure is effected, in almost every instance, by obliteration of the vessels, and not by adhesion of the edges of the wound. One of the most remarkable instances, perhaps of recovery, from an wound of a large artery, is that related by Van Swieten, where a knife was struck into the axillary artery. When I call it one of the most remarkable, I allude to the severity of the symptoms; for the man was actually laid out as dead.420 Next day, when the body was to have been judicially exam- ined, some warmth was felt about the thorax, on which account the dissection was delayed some hours, during which the man fortunately revived, and got well without operation. Many other instances might be added to this of a natural cure; and we have even examples where a limb has been amputated, and no vessel has required to be tied. It is doubtful, how- ever, whether in such a case, the main artery may not have been either obliterated, or greatly contracted. It is familiar, also, to every surgeon, that division of arteries by gunshot wounds, or by violent laceration produced by machinery, pour out comparatively little blood, and are ol all otheis most susceptible of natural obliteration. CHAP. IX. OF ANEURISM, AND THE ARTIFICIAL MEANS OF RESTRAINING HEMORRHAGE. r When a natural cure cannot be obtained, and the external wound is small, immediate death is prevented by the closing of that wound either by a coagulum or by artificial means, and thus it often heals. But the wound in the artery does not heal, and it has already poured out blood into the sur- rounding cellular substance. This soon separates, to a greater or less extent, the muscles, and detaches the fascia more or less rapidly and extensively, according to its resistance. Where the fascia is thin and almost cellular, and affords little resist- ance! the blood insinuates itself extensively below it, and may form a very diffused tumour. But where the fascia is firm and efficient, the tumour is more circumscribed, and seldom acquires a great size; but whatever its size may be, it acquires it rapidly, and remains for a time stationary. Some portion of the blood may insinuate itself between the fascia and the skin, producing ecchymosis, but this is soon absorbed. hem blood is confined below the fascia, which remains attached to the muscles, and the muscles themselves to one another, with a steadiness proportioned to the strength and tightness of the fascia, the density of the cellular connexions, the size of the artery, and the nature of the wound made in it. The cavity thus formed for the reception of the blood, comes presently to be even well defined by the formation of a species of cyst, effected partly by the coagulation of a portion of the blood, and partly by the effusion of fibrin from the surrounding surface. A tense, circumscribed, pulsating tumour is thus formed, constituting what has been called a false aneurism; and if in the early period, the skin were dissected off, this tumour or aneurism would be found bounded externally by the fascia, through which the blQod is seen of a dark colour. On cutting the fascia and opening the sac, coagula are turned out, and fluid blood flows from the aperture in the vessel. But this aperture is not organic, neither is it capable of the process of contraction or adhesion, for it is merely a coating of fibrin, and so long as it exists, obliteration is difficult. This never can take place by any process beginning at the aper- ture, and it is only effected when the blood is so long obstructed by coagulation in the sac, or at the mouth of the vessel, as shall check or destroy, for a considerable time, the action of the artery. Another state also capable of impeding obliteration, is the extravasation of blood into the cells at the part. 1 his is particularly apt to take place when the wounded artery is of moderate size, especially when there is a firm fascia over it, and it is imbedded in a cellular texture. The blood injects the cells, and a spongy swelling is formed, into which the artery opens, and in which, even after a free inci- sion, it would be difficult to ascertain exactly its mouth. This is the case in wounds of the palmar arch. I have already noticed that the circulation through the inferior end of the artery is not uniformly direct; that is to say, the blood does not regularly pass from the superior aper- tme into the sac, and thence into the under opening. The blood may even flow from the inferior orifice, though fee- bly5 m a retrograde direction. A cause, therefore, which422 could not obstruct the circulation in the upper end, so as to produce obliteration, may be sufficient to do so in the under one; and, in point of fact, we often find, if a false aneurismal sac be formed, that tying the artery above, whilst it obliterates the upper part, does also so restrain the retro- grade circulation, as to allow time for the obliteration of the under portion, through the medium of coagulation, more or less universal, within the sac. But in wounds of large arteries, this can only be depended on when the sac has become lined to a considerable degree, which may facili- tate the closing up of the inferior aperture with coagula, and the filling of the whole sac with solid blood. In open wounds, it is still less secure, for it must be known to all, that often when the upper end only has been tied, and the patient thereby thought safe, the under one has afterwards begun to bleed. Another circumstance to be attended to is, that if by any means the flow from the superior end of the divided aiteiy can be completely checked for a time, even gi anting that permanent obliteration did not take place, the collateral branches will enlarge faster, and to a greater degree, than if the artery be less obstructed and bleed frequently. In true aneurism, it has been thought, that it was useful to delay the operation that the vessels might enlarge. Whether this be correct, or under what circumstances dela) may be piopei 01 hurtful, shall hereafter be considered; but in the present case of false aneurism, no good can come of delay. Theie is, from the very nature of the injury, little, or but slow, piogiess making in the enlargement of the collaterals, whilst the size of the tumour is augmenting, which retards the effect on the collateral branches. The neighbouring parts are becoming more disordered, and a state is induced, in which we may say, that we have rather the misfortune of tying the artery in a limb now diseased, than the benefit to be expected from enlarged vessels. The earlier that an operation is performed the better, for the injury is less, and the anastomosing ves- sels are in all probability as large naturally as they should be two months after the accident. 1 he only case in w nc 1 t lei e423 is any thing like the shadow of an argument in favour of delay, in expectation of enlargement of the collaterals, is that in which the tumour is stationary, and so firm as to show that there is much coagulum in it; and these two circum- stances taken together, although they cannot justify the expectation of a natural cure, may yet support the specula- tion that the circulation is so far subdued as to increase in a salutary degree the determination to the collaterals. If right in this view, it also follows, that the limb, not being as yet properly supplied by the anastomosing branches, and in no degree by the trunk, must waste, and it is to be considered how far the additional quantity of blood thrown, after the ligature, on the minute vessels, may not, considering the pre- vious state of the limb, be productive of an excitement greater than it is able to bear. The delay in operating which may or may not be allow- able in false aneurism, is positively and invariably injurious in aneurismal varix. In this species of injury, we should either operate instantly or not at all; and indeed, as we shall pre- sently see, il the how can be immediately resti’ained, and the state of aneurismal varix induced, there can be no call for operation at any time. 1 he artery has been wounded through the vein: by means of pressure, these two tubes are still more firmly connected than heretofore, or, if the wound have been cleanly made, although of considerable size, the blood, even if the connexion were somewhat lax, would rea- dily find its way into the vein, whilst also by pressure, the external wound in the vein, with that in the skin, are healed. Lut the internal wound of the vein, the opening leading from it into the artery remains unclosed, and the blood flows from the artery into the vein, which is thus converted into a branch of the artery. Part of the blood passes down the artery to the branches below, but more or less, often no small quantity, enters the veins, and mixes with the venous blood, and flows with it in a direction retrograde to that in the artery. Two effects result from this; first, the trunk and branches below the wound in the artery being less fully supplied with blood, begin to contract and diminish in size, whereas, in true or t424 false aneurism, they enlarge in proportion to the obstruction in the trunk. In the latter case, an operation delayed may be more directly successful in proportion to the obstruction in the trunk, and we have no cause, in operation, tending to contract the anastomosing branches. In the former, the con- tinuation of the trunk and the collateral branches have been regularly diminishing, and an operation, finds them in a state worse than that met with at the moment of the accident; a second effect is, that the blood, impinging against the side of the vein opposite to the arterial aperture, dilates it, and pro- duces a tumour to a certain extent, but the more that the vein enlarges, the more is the force diffused, and the less is its effect, until we come to the degree when it ceases to ope- rate or excite dilatation, which is sooner attained, perhaps, by an additional strength being imparted to the venous coat, and this ultimatum being reached, no farther augmentation takes place. But the blood flowing with force from the artery, impedes the passage of that which was proceeding from the extremities of the veins, and all the veins of the limb, from their connexion with one another, become en- larged, and the effects of a ligature are for a time produced. This, in the arm, is of less consequence, but when the jugu- lar vein is affected, very serious or fatal disease should be pro- duced, were blood not immediately abstracted. We have'just seen that in an aneurismal varix the blood passes partly along the continuation of the artery, and partly into the vein, and this prepares us for a state we find in slits, punctures, and oblique wounds of arteries. W e have seen that in quadrupeds, such wounds, if not beyond a certain extent, may unite, and the tube remain pervious. But it will be very difficult, I do not say impossible, to bring forward such cures in the human subject. False aneurism, is almost unavoidably produced, and there is, perhaps, even a smaller chance of a natural cure being effected, than in a case of complete division. The temporary cessation of discharge into the sac, or of haemorrhage, where there is an unhealed wound, is not necessarily produced by a coagulum within the vessel, but by a clot filling and covering exteriorly the slit in\' 425 the artery. This clot, doubtless, may encroach more or less on the caliber of the vessel, which will also be diminished according to the nature of the wound; but still some blood passes along, and there is, therefore, in such a case, not the same effort made to enlarge the collateral branches. That the main trunk of the vessel does actually transmit blood, is proved by those instances, where incisions have been made upon the artery in order to tie it. No haemorrhage has taken place, even although the wound have been well cleaned with the sponge. The artery seems in a manner resolved to justify Mr. Hunter’s theories, whose disciples might say, that it cun- ningly pretended to have healed. In such circumstances, a ligature has been, from the difficulty of discovering the wound, applied below the injury, when instantly the blood has sprung, demonstrating that it formerly had been able to find a passage along the vessel, and was now forced out by the vis atergo, at the covered slit. Such oblique, or slit wounds, are most annoying to the surgeon. For they bleed frequently, and stop before he arrive, and when he does cut down upon the vessel, he finds it often difficult to see the injured spot, for as little blood may flow as if not an artery were in the part. A natural cure is scarcely ever obtained. It is even less to be expected than in a complete division in the same order of arteries. There is always, in an wounded artery, a tendency to retro- grade circulation in the portion immediately below the injury, and, therefore, we must, if the wound is to be enlarged, or the case treated as a simple open wound, tie both ends of the divided artery ; or if it be merely punctured, we must use a double ligature, one above, and another below the injury. But if aneurism have formed, and the cavity be circumscribed, it is sufficient to tie the trunk of the artery above this, and without opening the sac or bloody cavity. The blood is thus prevented from passing out by the upper portion of the wounded vessel, the effused blood coagulating, or almost even if in a fluid state it occupy the cavity, it can afford a sufficient resistance to the passage of blood from the under part, the retrograde motion being comparatively slow, and the impulsefeeble. The blood coagulates in the cavity, and is gradually absorbed, at the same time that the canal of the vessel at the wounded part is obliterated. There is no doubt as to the propriety of the practice in cases where the tumour is not extensive. But there may be a case where the artery, the femoral, for example, has been wounded in the middle of the thigh, the blood has been extensively effused, under the fascia, and perhaps among the muscles. The cavity is so extensive, that if the artery is to be tied before becoming involved in it, we must expose it at the groin, above the giving off of the profunda. It comes to be a very serious consideration, whether, in this great effusion of blood, and distended state of the thigh, more danger would accrue from tying the artery so high as to get above the branches of the profunda, and leave them to be filled by anastomosis with the ischiatic and gluteal arteries, than from opening the cavity near the seat of the wound, and tying both ends of the wounded vessel itself. In such a case, which fortunately is rare, there is a choice of evils; for, on the one hand, if the artery be tied veiy high, the limb already injured, and its component parts separated, is likely to suffer from the effect on the circulation; and, on the other hand, an opening of so extensive a cavity cannot fail to be dangerous, from the inflammation which may take place within it. There can no invariable direction be laid down, but as a general rule, I would advise the arteiy to be tied without opening the cavity. Having made these observations on the result of wounds when left to nature, or partly assisted by art, in restraining external haemorrhage, and considered the opinions which have been held with regard to the efficient causes of a cure where such could be obtained, I now proceed to notice the artificial means which have been employed for immediately lestiaining haemorrhage, and producing permanent security. The actual cautery was early and universally employed. It burned the vessel and the neighbouring parts, and formed an eschar, which stopped the blood in the meantime, and often closed the vessel afterwards. It did so, perhaps in various ways, all of which might contribute to the effect. The mere427 production of an eschar mechanically prevented the flow of blood, and in this respect acted like a ligature, or any other obstructing cause, destroying or suspending the function of the artery. It would mechanically shrivel or contract the part which was torrified, and this contraction would extend in a certain degree to the portion yet alive. Next, the effect produced on the extremity of the vessel not killed by the heat, would be inflammation. Lastly, it may be supposed that the heat would coagulate a certain portion of blood within the vessel. But this, if it take place, would be of no advantage, farther than as a mere temporary plug. For blood thus rapidly coagulated by heat, must be looked upon with much suspicion, as a source of irritation, and may indeed have been one cause of the failure of the process. This failure, admitted by all to be not unfrequent, was attributed to the degree of heat. If the iron were too hot, it burned the part to a cinder, and either pulled it away to itself, or it soon fell off, and left the vessel open. If not hot enough, it did not produce a sufficient eschar, and obliterate the vessel. To describe the various shapes of the cauterizing iron, for no thorough bred surgeon would use one of any other metal, the cunning way in which it was applied to the vessel, the directions for burying it to a depth proportioned to the size of the vessel, or the number of times that it should "be applied to the same spot, together with the controversies relating to the best degree of heat, is not necessary, as happily this mode of restraining haemorrhage is now abandoned. No wonder that in these days, Marianus says, the surgeon must be somewhat pitiless, and not mind the howlings of his patient. Boiling oils, or melted lead, or sulphur, were sometimes em- ployed as a variety, and in great engagements, or in hospitals, there were always at hand, pots of boiling oil, or of turpen- tine. Even after all these horrible applications, the patient was never secure, and happy was the surgeon who was not obliged to break the injunction, hot to remove the first dressing for several days. To avoid the terrible appearance of a hot iron, some used the potential cautery, which varied according to the caprice lof the surgeon. Some used the nitrate of silver, or the alkaline caustic, or sulphuric acid, or corrosive sublimate, which killed many in a dreadful manner. The one of the most frequent was the sulphate of copper tied up in a little bag, and hence called, technically, a button of vitriol. This was laid on the mouth of the vessel, and firmly retained, so as to produce, by its solution, an eschar. So late as the year 1735, similar pegs, made of alum, were used in the French army. Many astringents, or styptic compositions, were also employed, which were supposed to act, not by producing an eschar, but by constringing the vessel. But, if the opinions of modern physiologists be correct, this mode of operating cannot be admitted. In so far as these applications were at all useful, they must have acted either as astringents on the neighbouring contractile fibres, or chemically in coagulating the blood, or as irritants inflaming the vessel. They were totally useless, however, in arteries of large size, and derived their temporary reputation, chiefly from experiments made on brutes, in whom haemorrhage is much more easily restrained than in man. The mere exposure of the vessel, in order to Apply the styptic, might be sufficient alone, or aided by the coldness of the fluid, or of the air, to close vessels of secondary size. Very cold water would have the same temporary effect, and Larrey tells us, that in amputations after the battle ot Eylau, it was only necessary, owing to the cold, to tie the great trunks. Cold water, or cold air, may, in one respect, be considered as styptics, and capable of restraining, in most cases, bleeding from trifling arteries. On this principle, the entire division of an wounded artery, permitting its retrac- tion, and rapid contraction, is effectual in some instances, and has been professedly advised by Albucasis, and other old writers. Sponge, dipped in cold water, and pressed on the artery, was used both by Celsus and Albucasis. But modern surgeons employ it dry, and having compressed it into as small bulk as possible, thrust it into the cavity where the vessel lies, or bind it down on the bleeding surface. Agaric, has in the same way been employed by the modern surgeons.429 This is formed into pieces of various size, which are beat so as to render them softer. This substance is pliable, of a fungous nature, and yields under the finger, somewhat like chamois leather. Portions are laid, in at least two successive layers, over the artery, and bound firmly down with bandages. It was considered to act principally by favouring coagulation; but it now seems to be almost superseded by the sponge. IThis may act in two ways. First, by serving as a medium, identifying the coagulum with itself, into whicl^it enters, and in which it forms, and also with the part to which it adheres. It retains the coagulum, and renders it efficient. Another way in which, in certain cases, it may operate, is by pressure, especially when thrust into a cavity, and firmly bound by a roller. It may also, in the first instance, assist by capillary attraction. For a fluid rises in a sponge, which touches only its surface. And blood will flow faster into a sponge, or moi-e rapidly at first from a vessel of secondary size, than if no sponge had been applied. This produces more rapid con- traction of the extremity of the vessel. For an artery dimi- nishes as the distention is taken off, and the blood in the sponge in the mean time coagulating, the effect is assisted. If we can prevent, by pressure, or other means, the flow through the sponge externally, or into the neighbouring parts, the same consequences may result as from the complete coagu- lation of blood in an aneurism. The sponge is, therefore, under some circumstances, and with regard to a certain order of arteries, more effectual than cauteries. But it is equally fatal to adhesion, often more so, in consequence of the disten- tion of the part, and therefore never ought to be employed where the ligature can be applied, especially in such cases, as otherwise would admit of adhesion. As for the application of a sponge between the wound and the bandage, after laying down the skin on the wound, it has no advantage over any other compress, except in distending, and thereby increasing the pressure, if haemorrhage should take place. When sponge is used, it should be removed in proper time, and before the surface begin to granulate. For the granulations pass into : : - -• ,430 / the sponge, which can afterwards only be removed by cutting away a portion daily as it rises. Some, applied more solid compresses on the artery, of which the most frequent was a pellet of chewed paper, which was tied strongly down, and if the artery ran over a bone, and were not very deep, this, if properly preserved in its situation, might obliterate an artery in the same way with a ligature. Compression indeed was an old method, and might be traced to the time of Albucasis, and many ingenious contrivances were adopted for effecting it, either by pressing on the face of the wound, or on the course of the artery; or sometimes continued pressure was made by the hand for days, by a change of assistants. This compression, which was trusted to in many instances for a permanent cure, was long of being effi- ciently employed for procuring a temporary obstruction to the flow of blood in the performance of operations. Even in amputation it was only partially used. A simple band was put round the limb, and compression farther increased by grasp- ing with the hands. Severinus notices the application of a pad or splenium over the artery. Morell, in 1674, twisted the simple ligature tightly with a pin. Young, four years after- wards, joined the pad to this, but was not very nice as to the means he used for twisting. Petit, in 1718, invented the screw tourniquet. This was assuredly the means of preserving much blood, as well as many lives. But like every other good thing, it has been much abused. A hard pad, and a tightly screwed tourniquet, have been the means of obliterating the artery at the part acted on. Objections of a different nature have also been brought against the use of the tourniquet in amputation, but there is no occasion at present for entering into this subject. . . Pressure being so obvious a way of restraining the imme- diate flow of blood, it would have been strange had men, m a civilized state of society, however ancient, overlooked the most direct way of accomplishing this, namely, tying the artery itself. This was occasionally advised by the ancients, and is particularly recommended by the Arabians. Albucasis, speak-431 ing of an wounded artery, “ ligatur cum filo ligatione forti.” Succeeding surgeons almost invariably notice the same prac- tice. But with too many it was more a speculative opinion than a practised method. It was generally restricted to haemorrhage from accidental wounds, particularly of the smaller arteries. In all regular operations, as well as in many casual wounds, the cautery was chiefly employed. Pare contributed much to the more general introduction ol the ligature. Pie tied the artery in different ways with the needle, as had indeed been done before him. For sometime ihe, in the old way, first passed the curved needle in a semi- circle along one side of the artery, and next along the other, and then tying the ligature firmly, compressed the vessel and the substance which immediately surrounded it; or he plunged the needle under the artery a little higher than the wound, and tied both the artery and the intervening substance. But his best and neatest mode was to pull out the mouth of the artery with a pair of forceps, and then tie it. Such was the practice of Pare, and though it was long and violently resisted, the ligature came at last into general use, and is now employed in preference to all other means. It will, therefore, be proper shortly to inquire into its mode of acting, and into the best way of applying it. Previous to the time of Desault, little attention was paid to its modus operandi. It was known mechanically to check hmmorrhage, and to do so permanently, and different explanations might be given according to the theories which have been already noticed. Desault remarked that the ligature cut the internal and arterial coat, whilst the external coat resisted it. This division of the internal fabric was supposed to lead to direct adhesion, and Bichat afterwards detailed more at length the properties of the different coats, and endeavoured to connect facts with physiology. Dr. Jones afterwards took up the same view of the matter, and even admitted that it was not essentially necessary to con- tinue the ligature, in order to obtain adhesion. For he tied the carotid artery of a dog tightly, so as to divide the internal coat, which breaks more easily than the external, and imme- diately removed the ligature. On killing the dog afterwards,; . 7 1.32 ! i 1/ if f; the canal was completely obstructed with lymph, and its sur- face covered with a thick layer of lymph for an inch and a half above, and an inch below the injured part. But he draws no general conclusion, leaving the sufficiency of the mere divi- sion of the internal coat to be determined by future observation. Mr. Dalrymple of Norwich in ten experiments failed; and the farther observations of Mr. Travers and Mr. Hodgson, are not more favourable to the opinion. It would indeed be rather strange than probable, if the simple division of the internal coat were to produce obliteration, unless the sides were kept in contact. The irritation and contraction consequent to the effecting of this division of the coat may, and perhaps gene- rally do, produce stricture, but not obliteration. The appli- cation of two or three ligatures very near each other, so as to divide or injure the coat, cannot even be depended upon, if the ligature be immediately removed, although the greater injury be more likely to cause obliteration than when only one ligature is used. In all cases, more or less lymph is effused. The notion that division of the internal coat is neces- sary to adhesion, is altogether fanciful. The mere apposi- tion of the internal surfaces of the artery is sufficient of itself, within a certain time, to produce obliteration, but this we find to be accelerated by any additional injury or irritation of the vessel, provided we keep within certain limits. Meie inita- tion alone, may produce such inflammation, or changes on the vessel, as shall cause obliteration, hli. Iluntei found, that exposure of the tibial artery of a dog for an houi, obli- terated it. We are not, however, to suppose that the mere circumstance of exposure alone acted. The concomitant irritation produced in the neighbouring parts by being kept so lono- open would contribute. With this experiment before us, we need not be surprised at the result obtained by Mr. Charles Bell, by applying a ligature loosely around the carotid of a dog. Here it was impossible that any division of the internal coat could take place. Even the sides were not kept in contact, and yet, from the continued excitation, oblitera- tion took place, which we find not to be the case, although the internal coat be cut, if the ligature be immediately433 removed. Mr. Freer found, that by pressing the sides of an artery in a horse together for four hours with a tourniquet, the canal was obliterated. Mr. Crampton has also ascer- tained the effect of compressing the artery with a flat tape, merely to such a degree as to keep the sides in contact, and found that obliteration was effected. It would appear, how- ever, that the rapidity and perfection of the obstruction of the vessels are, within a certain range, proportioned to the degree of pressure, that is, to the degree of irritation or excite- ment. Compression may, therefore, be so applied as to obli- terate a vessel, long before a ligature tied around that vessel could be spontaneously detached. Merely tying a vessel, however tightly, with a single ligature, and then immediately removing that ligature, we have seen, is not sufficient to pro- duce obliteration. But if the ligature be allowed to remain for some hours, and then be removed, obliteration is effected. The exact time at which a ligature may be safely removed from a divided vessel, or when complete obliteration shall have taken place at the tied spot of a trunk going to an aneurismal tumour, may be expected to vary, according to the state of the part or of the constitution, as well as the degree of local irritation or excitement. The experiments of Mr. Travers would lead to the conclusion, that if a ligature be applied for six hours, and then removed from an undivided vessel, such changes are commenced as shall end within other six hours, in complete obliteration of the artery; of course, the conti- nuance of the ligature for twelve hours from the date of its application, is still more to be depended upon. Mr. Cramp- ton, from his own experiments, concludes that permanent obliteration may be effected in a period not exceeding twenty- four hours. Scarpa, however, does not propose, that in the human subject the ligature should be removed within the third or fourth day. My own experiments would lead to a conclusion, that much depends on the state of the system. If a dog, for instance, were not in good health, or had different vessels tied within a day or two of each other, obliteration was long of taking place; and I am much disposed to press the fact of the connexion of the state of the health, and the efficiency of 2 v434 the ligature on the attention of surgeons. Generally speak- ing, I am satisfied that adhesion and obliteration does not take place, even in quadrupeds, so speedily as some suppose. A coagulum may early fill the vessel to a certain extent, but the tube is merely plugged by it, and no adhesion may have taken place at the site of the ligature; for in some experiments, even so late as the fourth day, when the ligature was cut off, a probe passed with the utmost facility along the tube, at the spot where it had been applied, and in some instances, no coagulum existed either above or below the ligature, but the inner coat was seen to have been cut, and the line of division filled with red glossy fibrin. In all cases, we find that the outer surface becomes red and fleshy-looking, and whatever the form of the ligature may be, its site or tract suppurates, and it is by this process that it is detached. In all cases, suppuration detaches the ligature, and, therefore, cannot be considered as a cause of secondary haemorrhage ; that depends on the concomitant state of the vessel. When we attend to the effect immediately produced on the vessel by the applica- tion of the ligature, we find that the internal and middle coats of the artery are either divided or entire, accoiding to the form and tightness of the ligature. Next, we find in every instance more or less inflammation excited. This must necessarily happen from the irritation produced by the liga- ture. It is marked by a red colour of the inside of the artery, which also becomes somewhat villous. Fibrin like red jelly is next effused, and immediately beyond this, and sometimes intermixed with it, we generally find a clot of blood extend- ing up to the next branch. °When the same consequences can be produced, though in different modes, by various efficient causes, it is evident that if more than one of such causes be brought simultaneously into operation, the result may not be the effect of one alone acting in its own peculiar way; but may proceed from the conjunct action of different causes, each acting in its own way, although one may predominate over the rest. The oblitera- tion of an artery may, therefore, be either a simple or a com- plex process, as one or more exciting causes, capable of pro-4 35 during different modes of obstruction, are brought into activity. In the case of ligature it is certainly complex. The mere division of the internal coat, by the application of a ligature, is not sufficient; neither is the induction of inflammation effec- tive, for we have cases of both intense and extensive arteritis without perfect obliteration. The complete obstruction of the circulation, either by a coagulum, or by a flat ligature, is, after a length of time, effected; but my experiments with the flat ligature or tape do not lead me to expect rapid oblitera- tion ; and assuredly, if the artery be either unsound, or the constitution weak, we are more likely to produce inflamma- tion and suppuration of the external coats of the artery than obliteration of the tube; and, accordingly, when the tape was removed, even after the lapse of four days, I have found the artery quite pervious. The perfect or extreme contraction of the tube by the entire removal of a distending cause, leads also to obliteration. But this is seldom met with far beyond the mouth, for higher, a coagulum often fills the vessel, which, therefore, although it may be diminished, cannot be fully contracted. The mere apposition of the sides, either with or without division of the internal coat, is not in general suffi- cient to cause adhesion and obliteration, unless the artery, for some way above, be also contracted or obstructed. This is a fact of more importance, perhaps, than any other in the surgery of arteries. It is established by many experiments and examinations, which ascertain the artery to continue pervious down to the last branch, whether that be near to, or remote from the ligature. The artery may even continue pervious for a considerable way below the last very distinct branch. In dissecting old stumps, we find that the femoral artery is pervious, perhaps to within half an inch of the extremity of the bone, and no considerable branch is given off, for a considerable space above that: a very small twig there may be sufficient to keep a tube pervious. While this may be fully admitted, it is not always considered in operations. If the ligature be applied just below the giving oft of a branch, that is, close by it, there is more chance of success, than if a quarter, or half an inch intervene. For theexudation caused by the ligature at the spot, is likely to fill up or obstruct the branch going off there. But if the branch go off a very little further up, but not distant enough from the ligature, the blood getting off by it, keeps the artery dis- tended, and continues the function of circulation, and al though some exudation exist at the tied spot, and a small coagulum may have formed, yet no solid union, or obliteration, takes place, at least within the time, when in the natural course of things the ligature must have fallen off. Htemorrhage, there- fore, takes place. On this account, setting other causes aside, the ligature of the subclavian artery is always to be considered as very uncertain in its effect. What is true of this artery is equally true with respect to others in similar circumstances. The relative position, then, of the ligature and the branch immediately beyond, together with the size of that branch, must be matters of great importance, and in considering the causes of failure, or of secondary haemorrhage, the existence of a considerable branch near the ligature, well deserves the greatest attention. When such a branch is known to exist, the ligature should either be applied higher, or one ought also to be put round the branch, according to circumstances. No expected benefit from anastomosis can compensate for the possible failure of obliteration. Another cause of failuie, is the unhealthy state of the part tied. II this be diseased in its texture, for instance, partially ossified, or if there be what are called steatomatous depositions in the coats, and which are generally depositions of fibrin or albumen, consequent to previous chronic inflammation, adhesion cannot take place. The artery inflames indeed, and exudation may take place, but adhesion does not follow. The circle surrounded by the ligature sometimes dies, and the ligature being thus detached without any permanent obliteration having taken place, the blood gushes forth. But more frequently the part suppurates, and the artery is opened, before the ligature can be completely detached. The ligature, applied to a healthy artery, and in a successful case, is supposed to eat its way out by ulceration, which is productive of no injury, because the part has become solid. But if this ulceration take place prematurely, or extendI 437 beyond the obstructed spot, the artery is opened. The process I apprehend is quite different; it is that of suppuration, not that of ulceration, which I have already explained to comprehend, essentially, granulation. The ligature is disengaged as aseton is, by the process of suppuration, accompanied with slow absorp- tion. A mere suppurating surface is not necessarily subjected to destructive absorption; there must be a combination of irrita- tion, pressure, &c. to cause this; and in a healthy artery this is not accomplished before obliteration have taken place, for it requires several days, seldom less than a week, occasionally three weeks. When this suppurative process commences in, or spreads to, an unobstructed portion of an artery, haemor- rhage instantly takes place. We never find an artery opened by ulceration. An ulcer in the immediate vicinity of an artery is harmless. It is not so with a suppurating sore, and of this nature are all those spreading sores called phagedenic ulcers. Phagedenic suppuration may occur early or late; it may be excited very soon after the application of the ligature, and be in full operation by the second day; but it is seldom so early that the ligature is detached; and we have seen, that obliteration or union is, in a healthy artery, effected within that time. Haemorrhage, therefore, is to be attributed, not to the early detachment of the ligature, but to the kind of inflammation, which is unfavourable to adhesion, and induces the eating suppuration, which would cause haemorrhage, even if the ligature stuck on the artery. Inflammation of the low kind in the immediate vicinity of an artery, is always danger- ous, but most of all when it ends in suppuration, for this is more certainly productive of haemon-hage, than mortification or sloughing of the artery.. We read of sloughing of the artery much oftener than we meet with it; for unhealthy suppui’ation is often mistaken for it. If this kind of inflam- mation be dangerous in the immediate neiglxboux’hood of an artery, it must be tenfold more so when it commences in the artery itself; and in this case, the cii’cumstance of a ligature having been previously applied, whatever importance it may hold as an exciting cause, adds nothing to the danger of the result. Suppuration either takes place at the tied spot, or438 immediately above it, whilst low inflammation sometimes creeps up along the internal coat. The causes of this formid- able condition are various; sometimes it is attributable to the diseased texture of the vessel, sometimes to the unhealthy condition of the neighbouring parts, which are in a state of foul abscess or suppuration. Atmospheric influence, or the application of the infection of hospital gangrene, may also produce this state. Disorders of the general constitution, particularly that condition met with in drunkards, rendering them liable to erysipelas, is another cause. Mere debility is not to be dreaded, for those who have suffered much from previous loss of blood, are not more liable than others to failure of the ligature. There must also be an unhealthy state, whether that be called irritable, or leading to effusions, low inflammation, &c. Even where there is no disorder of the constitution, or no particular disease of the artery, or of the neighbouring parts, the application of a degree of irritation, or the excitement of a degree of action disproportioned to the power of the vessel, must be productive of mischief. Hence violent inflammation may cause failure either from sloughing, or more particularly from suppuration. Adventitious circum- stances debilitating the artery must be productive of the same effect. Hence, detaching the artery extensively from its con- nexion with the neighbouring cellular substance, and thereby destroying to the $>ame extent the vasa vasorum, must incapa- citate the vessel for adhesion, and if it do not die, it must fii st suppurate and then bleed. It must then be a rule nevei to detach or separate more of an artery than is just sufficient to have a ligature correctly applied round it; and if more have been insulated in any way, we should apply the ligature close by the remaining connexion of the upper part of the artery with the substance in which it is imbedded. Taking up too much substance with the vessel is considered as a cause of haemorrhage, but it is more imaginary than real. The older surgeons often included much of the surrounding substance, and however reprehensible the practice might be, yet it did not occasion failure so frequently as is pretended. It has also been supposed, that if the artery be tied very near439 its extremity, the ligature would be driven off by the vis a tergo. But the impetus is much less than was once imagined, and when the ligature does slip, it is from the artery not having been fairly tied; perhaps it was not tied at all, but only the sheath, or possibly the adventitious lymphatic mouth it obtains. To prevent this accident, it was seriously pro- posed to stitch the ligature to the mouth of the vessel. It had been better to have advised to pull that mouth distinctly out and tie it fairly. Let this be done, and we need have no fear of the ligature being knocked off. Including a nerve in the ligature gives much pain and irri- tation, and also keeps it longer on, for nerves resist its action more than an artery, that is, are not so soon suppurated and absorbed. This may cause unhealthy suppuration opening the vessel. But this is not all, for even if no injury resulted to the artery, the including of a nerve, that, for instance, which crosses obliquely the face of the femoral artery, is productive of mischief to the parts supplied by this constricted nerve, and the limb is more apt to suffer. If thei’e be, even in a well performed operation, danger of mortification, must not that be increased by the unnecessary division, and still more by the consti'iction of oxie or more nerves ? The forxxi of the ligature is another repixted cause of fail- ure, and particular dix’ections have been given to have it round, equally applied, a regular knot formed, and the tight- ness neither over much nor too little. We fixxd the ligature applied, or to speak correctly, misapplied, in every possible way, in amputation or extix’pation of tumours. Some are thick, others slender, some pulled tight, others slack enough, and yet haemox’rhage is a rare occurrence. The most slo- venly, clumsy operatox*, seldom loses a patient from this cause, if he do not either miss the artery altogether, and tie its sheath, or include only a corner of the vessel. In aneu- rism, haemorrhage is a frequent sequel of the operation, even in the best hands; and we must therefore attx'ibute more to the state of the artery, and of the parts, than to the state and size ot the ligature. Large ligatures are found to be sooner detached than smaller ones, and may therefore, it may be #440 said, in some cases, be more desirable, whilst in others, and these the most numerous, they are rather to be avoided. It has been conceived that small ligatures cut the vessel, and come away too soon, or that they have not strength to resist the force of the blood. Still we find some who, in the per- formance of an amputation, would be afraid to tie the femo- ral artery with a flaxen ligature, if it did not possess the strength, I wont say the size, of a cable; and yet they would not scruple perhaps to tie the same vessel with a single silk thread. Now, the immediate action of a single thread of silk, or flax, if they are of the same size, must be exactly the same, in cutting or injuring the artery ; and I will venture to affirm, that, if one silk thread can resist the force of the blood, a well waxed flax thread can do the same. When we, therefore, use a ligature, consisting of more than one thread, we must do so from a speculation, resting not on its stiength, but on its action on living parts. Some have carried their fears and speculations so far, as to interpose between the liga- ture and the artery, a bit of cloth or plaster, or the ban el of a quill. But if our object be to avoid all unnecessary irri- tation, all extensive detachment of the vessel, and particularly if we look for security and the speedy production of adhesion in and around the artery, we shall abandon every bulky extra- neous substance. On the same principle, therefore, the liga- ture of reserve, as it is called, must likewise be given up. This is a second ligature left loose on the artery, to be tied if the first fail, that is to say, it is a little seton, left to injure and excite the detached vessel. The fabric of the ligatuie has of late been attended to more than formerly, and as its ends must act as extraneous substances in the wound, it has been proposed, and it is very usually practised, to cut off one of them near the knot, so as to have just one half of the bulk. But this, although harmless, and even useful on speculation, is really of less practical advantage than some suppose, for the single thread scarcely makes a smaller tract or sinus in the wound than the double, as the quantity of pus yielded, and the caliber or extent of the secreting surface, is not neces- sarily correspondent to the precise thickness of the tlnead.441 Still the practice is good, and it prevents the possibility ol the two ends being inadvertently brought out at separate places. I Next, it has been advised to cut off both ends, and leave the knot either to remain, or find its way out the best way it could. Animal substance, such as silk, is generally employed Iin this view, and very often the wound heals over the liga- ture ; and when circumstances unconnected with the kind of ligature have afforded an opportunity afterwards of examining the parts, the knots have been found remaining on the extre- mities of the obliterated vessels, and surrounded by a covering or coat of dense substance. But in other cases they have been found lying in a little pus, or could not be detected at all. Had they, in this last case, been absorbed or discharged without observation ? The former conjecture has led to experiments with otl)er animal substances, supposed to be more capable of absorption than silk; but as yet, we are not possessed of suffi- cient information to give us confidence in the safety of these substitutes. Flaxen ligatures have been found lying in small cysts with pus. In general, they find their way out as readily, and with as little inconvenience, as if the ends were left. If complete adhesion take place, of the stump, for example, they work their way out, by forming for themselves a tract through the united surface; whereas, when the ends are left, adhesion never takes place in their tract, which therefore always exists. The plan, however, of cutting off both ends close by the knot, has not come into general use, and is never adopted in any case where irritation, if it were produced, could do sei'ious injury. No one, therefore, thinks of trying it in aneu- rism, nor in the extirpation of cancerous tumours ; in the first case, because the vessel might be excited by the long continu- ance of the extraneous body, and opened by suppuration. In the second, because if abscess did not take place, and the knot be discharged by it, the ligature might be surrounded by effusion of fibrin, which would presently be replaced by depo- sition of more dangerous materials, leading to a renewal of the disease. None of these evils, indeed, may happen in parti- cular cases, but still the uncertainty is a sufficient barrier to the adoption of the plan. The last circumstance I shall442 notice relating to the mode of applying the ligature, is the proposal, when the trunk of an artery is tied, as in the case of an aneurism, to use two ligatures, one a little distant from the other, and then divide the vessel between them. This is supposed to allow the artery to retract, and bury itself in the neighbouring parts, and also to prevent the artery from being kept on the stretch. This last advantage may be gained by placing the limb in such a position as to relax the vessel, and if we have been careful to detach no more of the trunk than is merely sufficient to permit the introduction of the instrument that is to convey the ligature around, we need care little about the benefit of retraction. But where a con- siderable portion of the trunk has been from any cause insu- lated, this advice may be with propriety followed, one liga- ture being carried as high, and the other as low as possible. There are situations where it would be difficult intentionally to apply the double ligature, and divide the artery; for instance, in the subclavian artei'y. The time required for the detachment of the ligature, varies according to the size of the artery and of the ligature, the tightness with which the ligature is drawn, and the natuie of the parts included with the artery, for it is longer of com- ing away, if any portion of fascia, or even of muscular fibre, or dense cellular, or membranous, substance be included, than if the artery alone be cleanly tied. The state of the part itself, and of the constitution, may also have an influence. Some ligatures come away on the third day, otheis not for three weeks or a month. If the vessel be of small size, and no adjoining substance be included, and the ligature be properly applied, it should be detached in a week; if the vessel be large, it may remain for ten or twelve days. But, as in many cases, notwithstanding every attention, a little sur- rounding substance may be included, and the ligature may remain, even in a well performed operation, longer. Some consider that arterial branches should part with their ligatures on the fifth day, whilst large trunks were entitled to retain them till the ninth, but there is much uncertainty. About the period when they are expected to be detached, we, at every443 dressing, pull gently, to ascertain if they can come away, for they may be retained merely by a shred or filament of indu- rated substance, which may easily be ruptured. If we pull strongly, we give pain, and if we did prematurely detach or rather wrench off the ligature, we should pull away the end ol the artery with it. If the vessel be large, haemorrhage would ensue: if small, a little blood flows, but the vessel, even if opened, soon ceases to bleed, especially if pressure be applied. But it is better not to require this, or to hurry the separation of a ligature, even from a small artery. Immediately after the ligature is applied, the temperature of the limb usually falls, and continues below par till the second, or, perhaps, third day, when it rises four or five degrees above the natural standard, and continues in this state for about a fortnight. In some instances, however, the temperature does not fall after the operation, but becomes almost immediately increased, and rises ultimately so high, perhaps, as even an hundred. Whether the temperature had risen or fallen at first, it is usually some degrees higher the second than the first week. From the instant diminution of temperature on tying the ligature, we should conceive that the trunk below received little or no blood. But this is not the case, for if the artery be punctured, immediately below the ligature, blood flows. If, then, by a collateral and retro- grade circulation, the trunk below the ligature be still sup- plied with blood, it may be asked, how can the ligature cure aneurism ? I reply, that the direct current is checked. The blood indeed enters for a time the artery below, by a retro- grade course, but it is both slowly and imperfectly. There is no free nor direct efficient circulation. The vessel gradually contracts, and is obliterated. A puncture will only yield blood soon after the ligature has been applied. I have said, that in some cases the temperature immediately falls. In others it does not, but even rapidly rises above par. This (variety must depend on the previous state of the circulation. According to the degree of direct circulation which has been going on through the aneurismal tumour, the temperature may be expected to fall. Where there has not been a directcirculation kept up, no farther impediment can be offered by the ligature, and no fall of temperature can be anticipated. In proportion to the fall, we would be led to expect the increase: for the increase arising from the excited action of the branches, it ought to be proportioned to the obstruction actually occasioned by the ligature itself; and where there had been no fall, showing that there had been little or no circu- lation through the trunk below, previous to the application of the ligature, we should expect no subsequent increase of tem- perature. But this is fallacious, for many cases exist, where the collateral branches are already so prepared, as to carry on the circulation sufficiently well, after the application of the ligature, to prevent any perceptible diminution of temper- ature. But in such cases, the total obstruction of the passage of blood through the main trunk, may cause such an increased determination immediately to the collaterals, even under these circumstances, as shall be productive of increased tempera- ture. The only case in which the temperature shall neither fall nor rise, is that where the collaterals have already increased to their ultimatum, and the direct circulation through the trunk, has been entirely checked. In such a case, the ligature was altogether uncalled for, in a true aneurism, as a natural cure must have well nigh been accomplished. When a ligature is applied on the wounded trunk of an artery, or in the early stage of aneurism, we find, thereafter, all the branches greatly increased, various anastomoses are rendered more distinct, or larsrer, and the whole substance of the limb is rendered more vascular. That is to say, the small branches enlarge, and when minute injection is thrown in, the parts exhibit some- what the appearance of an inflamed texture. We can, therefore, very readily account for the increase of tempera- ture. But there is another circumstance equally important, which we are as able to account for, namely, the induction of gangrene. Where this high and rapid excitement of the collateral branches is produced, and the limb comes to be more minutely injected with blood, we have a dangeious degree of action produced, for in such cases tlieie has been previously a corresponding fall in the temperature, and445 decrease in the energy of the part. The same effect may, therefore, be expected, as from the application of heat to a frostbit part. Another circumstance which ought not to be overlooked, is, that this enlargement begins above the ligature, or at the upper part of the limb. It is receiving tbis full and minute supply of blood, when more extreme parts are less perfectly supplied. This upper part is better able to bear increased action than the under. But action, we have seen, is communicable from one part, acting highly, to another acting less. In this way it is that the application of heat to the thigh, when the leg had been greatly sunk in its power by cold, would have a bad effect on the leg, although the application were confined to the thigh. In the same manner this increased action, commencing, we suppose, above the liga- ture, will come, by communicating itself to the parts below, • to induce a degree of excitement in them which they are less able to bear. And if the increase of temperature which follows, be more owing to this communicated excitement, than to the actual enlargement and activity of the branches in that i lower part, the consequences must be destructive. Keeping, then, these circumstances in view, we are naturally led to be cautious in applying artificial heat to the limb, even when ' the temperature is fallen. The most we do is to apply around it a bad conductor of heat, so as not to carry off rapidly the little that is evolved, at the same time, we keep the limb in an easy and horizontal posture, and scrupu- lously avoid every irritation and excitement. When the temperature rises, we carry off the heat more freely. We keep the limb below the ligature lightly covered, or we bathe it occasionally with cool water, whilst above the ligature we ai’e more free in our use of cold. Whei’e the increase of temperature is considei’able, and seems to be kept up or aug- mented by general fever, it will be useful to take away blood from the arm. This is particularly the case where the increase of temperature is accompanied with pain, either in the aneu- rismal tumour, or in the limb. Where nervous trunks pass over, or are intimately connected with the tumour, we find, that from the changes produced by the ligature, pain is more r146 apt to occur than in other cases. CEdema may take place in the limb, after the application of the ligature, from two sources. From the increased action of the minute branches, producing exhalation ; or, from the diminished action of the absorbents. In the first case, we have the marks of increased action, already pointed out, and it is to be treated accordingly. In the second, there is more languor of circulation, and less heat. In this case we may have recourse to very gentle fric- tion continued for some time, and support the parts lightly with a roller. Gangrene also appears under two circum- stances. It may proceed more directly from languor of cir- culation following quickly upon the diminution of tempera- ture ; or it may occur more evidently as a consequence of the excitement of the part, and this is known by its being pre- ceded by increase of temperature. For the treatment of the limb, under these circumstances, I refer to what has already been said respecting gangrene. As to the question of ampu- tation, however dangerous the operation may be, there can be no hesitation in the first case, namely, when there has been no increase of temperature, or accession of inflammation, to pro- ceed as in other instances of traumatic gangrene, to amputate above the ligature, if the state ol the patient do not forbid it. The chance may be a bad one, but nothing is to be gained by delay. In the second case, namely, where gangrene is pre- ceded by increased temperature and excitement dispropor- tioned to the power of the part, it may be plausibly uiged, that we ought to follow the rule of delaying till the gangiene be checked. But after all the attention I have been able to give to this subject, I am satisfied that the decision must lest on the state of the limb above the ligature. We need not be guided by that of the lower part, for the gangrene arises from local, and not from constitutional causes. It the limb above the lioature be free from preternatural action, and otherwise healthy, we may amputate as safely, early as late. And dan- gerous as the operation must be under the most favourable circumstances, we can hardly expect to lessen that danger by waiting in expectation of a line ot separation. But where the portion above the ligature is pretematurally hot, some-what tumid, and in a state bordering on inflammatory action, if not actually inflamed, we must upon no account operate, until, by cool lotions, or, if necessary, the application ol leeches, or constitutional remedies, or perhaps the mere lapse of time, the excitement have been allayed, and the part brought into a more natural condition. For, if we cut parts in a state of disease, or preternatural action, we can expect nothing but an accession of gangrene on the stump. After these remarks on wounded arteries, and the means of restraining haemorrhage and curing false aneurism, I shall next offer a few observations on true aneurism, or that expan- sion of the coats or sheath which may be produced without either external wound or complete laceration of all the coats of the tube. The ancients were acquainted with external aneurisms, and gave them their name, from the distention, and consequent enlargement, of the part where they were situated. Etymo- logists derive the term from the dilatation, not of the vessel which might be opened or pour out blood, but of the tumour which was lormed by this. As such tumour was also supposed to arise sometimes from the mouth of the vessels opening and allowing blood to run out, or from transudation, the term aneurism may also have been given, from defect of power or strength. With one accord, the ancient authors attributed aneurism to an effusion of blood from the vessel, by an open- ing made some way or other in its coats. Hildanus, one of the best of our old surgeons, decidedly adopted this opinion, and says, “ in aneurysmate itaque interiorem tunicam rumpi, exteriorem vero dilatari verosimile est.” Sennertus agrees with him, and says, “ atque ita proxima causa aneurysmatis est, arterias tunicas aperitio, exterioris vero dilatatio.” Ferne- lius first decidedly promulgated the doctrine, that true aneu- . rism arose Irom dilatation ol the artery like a varicose vein. In this opinion, he is followed by Mr. John Bell, who, whilst he admits that it may arise from ossification or rigidity of the coats leading to rupture, takes the general position that “ there is no breach of the arterial coats;” they ai'e thickened as they approach the sac, owing to “ inscrutable predisposition.”Scarpa, on the other hand, strongly contends that there is always a rupture or laceration, of the internal and middle coat, and illustrates his opinion by experiments made a hundred years ago by Dr. Nicholls. The blood is prevented from escaping by the rent into the adjoining parts, by the outer or cellular coat, which becomes expanded or dilated into a sac, and he strengthens his opinion, by remarking, that the sac or tumour never comprehends the whole circumference of the artery, but is limited to a portion, or forms a chamber attached to it. In many instances, however, we find a portion of an artery, for instance, of the aorta, greatly enlarged, or the main trunk of a limb may be dilated to double the size. 1 his is con- sidered not to be aneurismal, but is called a simple dilatation of the artery, and is recognised by the whole circumference being dilated. The admission of this fact, which no one denies, is, however, virtually to admit, that there may be two species of true aneurism, unless we so define aneurism as to exclude this case of dilatation ; and I am inclined to do so, as there does not seem to be necessarily any change of texture or obvious disease in the coats. It has, however, been supposed, that this dilatation may lead to rupture of the coats, and often produces it, but this, I believe, never happens unless the dila- tation have depended on previous disease, or be productive of change of texture. As a general rule, I would say, that aneurism always is preceded°by a disease of the coats, usually dependant on pre- vious inflammation, acute or chronic. The change, indeed, is not uniformly the same. In some cases, the coats, particu- larly the internal and middle ones, are converted into a layer of yellow dense substance, improperly called steatomatous. This conversion, however, is circumscribed, patches appear- ing here and there, but in a few cases the whole circumference is thus changed. Earthy substance may also be deposited either in patches, or as a more complete cylinder, and this state is not very correctly called ossification. Various shades between these two depositions, the earthy and the softer, are met with, and changes may also take place, with little or no adventi- tious deposite. Suppuration, for instance, may take place in449 one spot, and the inner portion of the artery may thus be destroyed. To enumerate all the changes which may precede aneurism, is neither necessary nor possible, for the very pro- duction of the disease often puts it out of our power to ascer- tain the steps leading to it. The alterations I have noticed, particularly the depositions, cannot be considered as imme- diate causes of aneurism, for they are met with in many cases where the artery is entire. They can therefore only be viewed as states facilitating rupture. This rupture may arise from any cause tending to distend the vessel, and, therefore, what- ever propels the blood in greater quantity, or with more force, can produce it; and if the coats be very brittle, they must at last give way under the ordinary effort for the circulation. Were all the coats, or the whole thickness alike diseased, and equally fragile, the rupture must be productive of haemor- rhage or diffusion of blood, like an wound or puncture. But the outer cellular coat and sheath seldom participate in the same disease. They indeed are often thickened, but they are not brittle nor fragile, and, therefore, when the internal and middle coats give way, the blood is still confined, and can hardly be said to escape from the tube, which is only opened or torn through half its thickness. But under these circum- stances, the outer coat yields or distends a little, more or less, according to the size of the internal laceration, and conse- quent impetus of the blood upon it. It is probable that the rent is generally at first very small, and the quantity of blood emitted by it comparatively trifling; and afterwards, as the outer coats are attempted to be farther dilated by the blood, they thicken, so that the tumour is formed, not by distention merely, but also by growth. The force exerted on the outer coat by the blood, at the moment of escape, is not great, and indeed, the ordinary impetus against the coat has been greatly overrated by some. If the blood acted with great force, it should be driven between the artery and the sheath, and form a coagulum, which would almost obliterate the arterial canal. If we inject a limb when the arteries are in this state, and the coats at one point give way, a large extravasation of wax takes place within the sheath, and the tube is so compressed, 2450 that little, if any passes down. In the formation of aneurism this does not happen, for the blood escapes more gradually, with less force than we use with the syringe, and the outer coat resists and becomes thicker. Much, however, depends on the size of the laceration, the connexion and situation of the vessel, and the changes which the outer coat undergoes. On examining various aneurisms, we readily observe in some, the aperture in the inner and middle coats, and the expansion of the outer one and sheath into a chamber', whilst in others, the whole cavity very strongly resembles an actual expansion of the whole vessel, as was supposed by Fernelius. More careful observation, however, will make us cautious of adopt- ing this opinion; for what at first appears to be truly the arterial substance or canal immensely distended, may be dis- covered to be the dilated sheath and cellular coat, the piopei substance of the vessel being sometimes quite divided trans- versely, so that, correctly speaking, the ends of the artery are greatly separated, or at other times the coat seems, either by different fissures, to have been stretched, or without this, to have been partially distended, and lost in the margins of the dilated sheath, &c. And I go on to observe, that when the cellular coat is distended, it comes also to thicken, so as to resemble very much the artery itself; and from the approxi- mation of each to a similarity to the other, it is not always easy to say where the one ends, and the other begins. It is this which, in aneurism of several weeks or months duration, has led to the idea that the disease consisted in mere dilata- tion. This apparent uniformity, however, is rarely met with, compared to the distinct formation of an adventitious cham- ber or sac attached to the artery, produced by the distention and thickening of the cellular coat and sheath. This cham- ber is sometimes, even in the aorta, no larger than a goose- berry ; a fine example of which is in Dr. Hunter’s museum. In other cases, it is larger than a child’s head. Sometimes the communication between the two is merely by a neat orifice in the side of the artery, not larger than the barrel of a quill; in other cases, there is an irregular opening, which would admit one or two fingers, with smooth and distinct edges,451 identified, by fibrin, with the expansion of the sac. In some instances, we have both a distended artery and a dilated cham- ber, the latter occasionally filled with coagulum, the former patent. In others, we have the artery of natural size run- ning over the face or front of the sac, which is connected with it by a longitudinal rent in the back or under side of the artery. Often we have the artery opening at the top into a distinct sac, and this sac at the bottom giving off again the artery. This state may have arisen from a transverse rupture, which extended considerably round the canal. It is not neces- sary that it should have been complete, for the remaining or intervening portion of the vessel would stretch and change. In whatever way the aneurism forms, and however it may be modified in its relations to the original canal, whether identi- fied with it, and resembling a mere expansion of the artery, or attached to it as a chamber connected by a larger or smaller opening, one and the same result takes place, namely, that the blood is confined within a space which, whatever its size or shape may be, is still virtually equivalent to an artery, and capable of transmitting blood. There is always a direct cir- culation carried on, and often on cutting up the aneurism, the orifices of the artery are seen neatly entering into or con- nected with it, and perfectly identified with it by the changes which have been going on, the deposition which has taken place, and the thickening of the outer coat. At no time, from the very first, was the circulation suspended, or cix-cuit- ous, or even difficult, and therefore no immediate danger can arise, in so far as the circulation is concerned; for the limb, or inferiorpartofthe body, is directly supplied with blood. Now, this is a very different state from that which exists in false aneurism, or that produced by wounding the vessel. In that case, I have endeavoured to explain, that whilst in small wounds the sheath may for a time supply the deficiency of the artery, and keep up to a certain extent the direct circulation, and whilst in other cases the connecting of the extremities of the vessel with the sac, by effusion of fibrin, might have a similar effect, yet, in greater injury, particularly in complete division or laceration, this could not be depended on, and the4.52 circulation came to be circuitous, though still the orifices, emitted into the sac enough to increase it, and prevent the artery from being obliterated. I he destruction of the direct circulation would lead to a natural cure, were the blood per- manently prevented from passing in any quantity from the orifices of the vessel into the sac. This rarely happens, the blood extends itself, the sac, if sac it can be called, for it is an inorganic substance, is always more or less on the increase, the parts become separated and diseased, and inflammation leads ultimately to sloughing of the coverings. But in true aneurism, there is, it may be said, no necessity for this, as there is a conduit, though an unshapely one, more or less organized, and a direct circulation or passage through this conduit. Now, this is to a certain extent true, and an aneu- rism may remain long, if not stationary, at least without mak- ing much progress. This leads us to inquire into the usual course. In false aneurism, the progress is only bridled by the resistance of the fascia and surrounding parts, and by the for- mation of a strong lining of coagulum within the cavity. In true aneurism, the progress is checked by the resistance of the thickened coats and sheath, by a distinct sac, and by the formation of different layers of coagulum within that, which strengthen its walls, and retard its sketching; nay, faithei, when only, or chiefly, one spot of an artery has been diseased and given way, so as to allow of the formation of a chamber, communicating by a very small orifice, the blood may coagu- late completely in that chamber, and if the parts were to con- tinue otherwise sound, might effect a natural cure. But it would be quite unwarrantable to stop at this point, for we find that the sac, whether that be formed wholly by the distended cellular coat, or by the diseased coats of the artery, or by both, does undergo changes. It is more or less organized, it is a living part, and like a tumour performs certain actions pecu- liar To itself. Like a tumour, it may remain for a time sta- tionary, but it more frequently, like it, becomes active, it grows or expands. But this expansion would be of less consequence, except in a mechanical view, by the pressure it might make on other parts, were it the only effect, for not only does the sac453 often thicken, or at least not become thinner, as it extends, but it is farther fortified by the formation of successive layers of coagulated blood, or fibrin, within. But, sooner or later, inflam- mation comes on, and involves the coverings. I know that it will be said I have begun at the wrong end, for it is the enlarge- ment of the sac which distends the skin, and then the skin thereby inflaming, gives way, and the sac is opened. This, doubtless, may be the case, but I am sure that inflammation may also begin in deeper parts in the very sac or tumour itself, and spread outwardly. In large aneurisms, when the growth has been steady, but always progressive, we find that the neighbouring parts become involved in disease, and are absorbed, not altogether by pressure, but by a complication of pressure and disease. Thus, we find in popliteal aneurism, that the joint may be affected, or in aneurism of the posterior tibial artery, the interosseous ligament is absorbed, part of the two bones removed, and the tumour appears in front. In aneurism of the aorta, the ribs are absorbed sometimes to such an extent, that a large pulsating tumour can be felt, and seen, all along the side of the dorsal vertebrae. When the sac or tumour opens by sloughing or suppuration, the blood does not always immediately flow, but a coagulum protrudes, being part of that, lining the sac, and this, till it be displaced, pre- vents haemorrhage. In other cases, the blood flows directly, and the opening may either prove instantly fatal, or a diffu- sion of blood, with great weakness, and followed by separation and disorganization of the parts in the vicinity, take place. It is also possible for the whole tumour to be affected more acutely with low inflammation, and gangrene of the entire aneurism to take place. Death may follow this, or extensive sloughing may ensue, the artery be obliterated, and granula- tions fill the wound. Aneurisms of internal arteries, bounded by serous membranes, have been supposed literally to burst, by laceration or rupture of the thin sac, whilst, if covered by mucous membrane, it opened like external aneurism, by sloughing. I have doubts how far this is invariably correct. Aneurism may also prove fatal in an adventitious way, not merely by involving parts essential to life, but by making parts454 previously diseased worse than they otherwise should have been. Thus, if a leg be ulcerated when a popliteal aneurism exists, the sore not only does not heal, but fatal gangrene is apt to take place. This is accelerated if the arteries have been ossified. An aneurism, in almost every case, pulsates. It is in one respect still an artery, at least is still associated with the action of the arterial system. The circulation can go on in two diffe- rent states, one with, one without pulsation. If we expose an artery, we may see no pulsation, and often we can feel none, yet the circulation is going on. In some cases, particularly of affections of the nervous system, the pulse entirely ceases, perhaps for many days, and yet the circulation continues; and when the patient gets better, the arteries again pulsate. In both of these examples, the heart beats, and the state is therefore different from syncope, where it acts very feebly, and the want of pulsation may be attributed to that cause. 4.heie can be little doubt that the pulse is owing to the action of the heart. Its frequency is regulated by the contraction of the heart, but its strength, or apparent bounding, is not dependant on the force of the contraction of the heart, but greatly on the state of the artery, both with regard to its vital and mechanical properties. In certain aneurisms of the arch of the aorta, although the heart does not appear to act moie forcibly than usual, yet the carotid beats strongly, and the pulse at the wrist is perhaps strong. Much depends on the contents of the artery, and the elasticity and vital action of the coats. The motion of the blood, although regulated by the heart, is not essentially dependant on it, for if we cut off the le«- of a frog, or tie a ligature round it, the blood con- tinues°to circulate in the capillaries, sometimes in a regular, often in an irregular, or even retrograde way. If, with the microscope, we examine the arterial branches leading to the capillaries, we sometimes see them alternately enlarging and contracting; in other instances, and these the most frequent, we see no change whatever, and very often, on examining the trunk in the leg or thigh, we cannot observe either the blood circulating, or the artery moving or changing its diameter.455 On examining the capillaries, we often see an uninterrupted or uniform stream of globules, in other cases, particularly if the capillary motion be about to cease, the stream for a short time flows in jerks or pulsations, and even in health, or with- out the application of any injuring cause to the web, the jerks are distinct, but at once are checked by pressure on the trunk of the artery, or around the limb. If we place the finger on the face of an artery in a natural state, we feel it apparently rise or impinge against the finger, and immediately recede, or seem to fall down, so that it is in a manner lost by the finger. These states are alternate, and constitute the pulse. It might be sup- posed that the stroke was given by the artery really bounding forward by being elongated, and this is strengthened by looking at the carotids in a slender girl, for they seem to project, and raise the skin before them. But if we press on the side of a large artery, or take it laterally between the finger and thumb, we feel the stroke or pulse as distinctly as by pressing on its face, and the artery seems to strike out on both sides, as well as forward. We should, therefore, say that the pulsation depended on the artery being distended by more blood. In very emaciated persons, particularly after tapping for ascites, when the abdominal parietes are lax, the aorta can be readily felt, and these circumstances observed. The pulsation is clearly dependant on the increased quantity of blood which the tube receives. If we cut across a large artery, and have only a small external wound, false aneurism forms, which pulsates strongly, not by the change of length of the artery, for it is divided, and also, in the thigh, firmly bound down by the aponeurosis extending from the vastus and triceps. The pulsation doubtless is produced, by the cavity which contains the effused blood, receiving at each pulsation a little blood, or having the quantity already contained, impinged on, by the blood from the upper orifice escaping, or endeavouring to escape. So long as the sac or cavity is at all dilatable, and any blood can pass from the orifice into the sac, and get out again from it, this cause must occasion pulsation. It is not even necessary that the small quantity of blood emitted from the upper orifice should get out by the under one. If it456 merely undulated at each motion, backward and forward, going from the upper end of the artery, or its mouth, into the sac, and back again into the end of the vessel at the systole of the sac, a pulsation should be produced, the sac appearing to the finger to expand, or strike the finger by an expansive force acting within. This pulsation, or apparent distention, may be perceived either in any part of the sac, or only at the thinest part, according to the state of the coagula; and this leads me to observe, that when the cavity is thickly lined with a layer of coagulum, and becomes more solid and resisting, this kind of pulsation may cease, and a more dull general elevation of the mass, may take place at each pulsation, just as a solid large gland would rise and fall by the pulsation of the artery below it; or no such motion may take place, and the aneurismal tumour may remain as quiet and free from pulsa- tion, as a chronic abscess or solid tumour situated far from any large artery. This explains how we may have, in false aneurism, produced by the puncture or wound of a large artery, first strong and well marked pulsation, so as even to raise the bedclothes, then the pulsation may become obscure, and, next, we may have a general elevation of the tumour, rather than a pulsation of its parietes. We may also under- stand why, in certain cases of false aneurism,'there may be no distinct pulsation from first to last. The pulsation of true, is much more easily understood than of false aneurism, for there is a circumscribed sac, forming still a part of the artery, and if the blood move at all, it moves in what, virtually, may be considered as an enlargement of the artery, and the pulsation is of the same kind with that of an artery. It is of great importance to attend to this, for it assists, and often determines the diagnosis. If the finger be laid on the face of the tumour, it is perceived to pulsate, and the impulse seems to come from within. The pulsation is inherent in the tumour. If we apply the finger and thumb to the sides of the tumour, or at any distance we choose from one another laterally, we still feel the pulsation; the tumour appears to expand laterally at every arterial diastole. If we press on the course of the artery below the tumour, the pul-. 457 sation is rendered generally more distinct. It we press on it above the tumour, the pulsation diminishes, or is lost, and the tumour becomes rather softer or more flaccid, and yields a little more to compression with the hand, but on taking oft the pressure from the arterial trunk, the tension and firmness return; the tumour, if it had been at all diminished, becomes again tight, and the pulsation strong. If we press more moderately on the artery above, so as only to lessen the force of the circulation, we sometimes exchange the pulsation in the tumour, for a thrilling or vibration somewhat similar to that ol aneurismal varix. Now, if a tumour appear to pulsate from being situated on an artery, the case is very different. It is alto- gether moved or raised at each beat of the artery. There is no pulsation from an internal cause, no expansion laterally; there is a mere elevation by a cause acting against its opposite surface. If we pull the tumour forward, or move it so as to prevent the impulse of the artery on it, the pulsation instantly ceases. This is well seen in swelled glands in the neck, ox- lateral enlai-gement of one of the lobes of the thyroid gland. The pulsation often is strong and visible; but pull the tumour away from the cax*otid artery, and it ceases instantly. But change the view, and take an encysted tumour, or a chronic suppui-ation of a gland, and whilst the tumour, be it lai-ge or be it small, is i-aised by the artery below it, may not the stroke of the artery, impinging on the fluid contents of the tumoui', produce at the sides, and every where, an oscillation, apt to be mistaken for pulsation within the tumour itself? Doubtless this is the case, but by attention we may generally avoid mis- takes. When such tumours appear to pulsate from within, or expand, or pulsate laterally, they must be filled with fluid, and, therefore, must fluctuate more or less, and are more ox- less elastic. Now, were the tumour aneurismal with such a character, it is evident, that from the fluidity of the blood, it must be compressible, at least to a considerable degx-ee, and might be rendered both smaller and more flaccid, even if situ- ated in a place where the trunk could not be acted on. The encysted tumour, on the other hand, is incompressible. In such a state, the aneurism must pulsate strongly in every458 part, and in every direction ; but in the cyst or abscess, the pulsation is most distinct over the trunk of the artery, and less so at the sides, and when grasped laterally, does not com- municate the feeling of strong expansion or pulsation. If it be a glandular abscess, we presently find that the skin becomes red and mottled, and small veins traverse the surface. The tumour becomes softer and more flaccid, though it still pulsates. Aneurism does not become mottled, or purple, or covered with small venous ramuli like a scrofulous tumour. If it be possible to draw the cyst a little forward, the pulsation in the same degree declines. The history of the case may also assist us; for example, in aneurism of the subclavian or innominata, we may have previous thoracic affection, or difficulty of breath- ing, and the tumour appears first from the region of the sternum or clavicle, with all the characters of aneuiism. But in glandular abscesses, the tumour, wherever situated, began like a solid lump, gradually becomes softer, and now, how- ever extensive it may be, and however it may be moved or impelled by the artery, it is not possessed of the same kind of expansive uniform pulsation as an aneurism. If it extend up the neck, it indeed vibrates extensively, and the thyroid carti- lage itself may be slightly moved by its vibration, but still, at it)Tboundary, the pulsation is indistinct, and if any part pro- ject over the clavicle, so as to get away from the direct impulse of the artery, the pulsation there is much less than elsewhere, if not altogether absent. It is of great importance to make a correct diagnosis, for if an abscess be mistaken for aneu- rism here, it may be allowed to burst into the thorax, and kill the patient; and it would be no less dreadful to open by mistake an aneurismal tumour. There have been instances where the difficulty of discrimination was such, as to lead to an opinion that the tumour not only was aneurism, but just on the eve of giving way. It has given way, and the patient been saved by a discharge of purulent matter. Such ambi- guous cases in the neck, or at the clavicle, fortunately seldom occur, for in general the characters are distinct. But in cases of doubt, it may be allowable to introduce a couching needle into the sac, and ascertain its nature. When large cysts are459 situated over the humeral artery, or in the thigh, there is seldom any difficulty, even if they do pulsate, in making the distinction. But smaller cysts or glandular abscesses in the ham have been mistaken for aneurism, and being deep they cannot always be so easily examined as in some other situations. But the same inquiry is, as far as possible, to be made into the universality of the expansion or pulsation, and sometimes by bending the knee, so as to relax the popliteal fascia, the tumour is felt less fixed, and with less motion. There have, however, been mistakes made, and the artery tied where no aneurism existed. I need scarcely after what I have said, animadvert on the mistake which has arisen from an artery being felt to pulsate as it traversed a tumour, for in that case, no attention can have been paid to the absence of pulsation elsewhere. I have never known an instance where an artery, by passing through a tumour, or being encircled by it, produced any thing like pulsation in that tumour. I can conceive the possibility of this happening, were the artery to be surrounded by an encysted tumour with very fluid con- tents, but this must be indeed a rare occurrence. The pulsation, of an aneurism is sometimes obscure, and requires attention to discover it. But it may also entirely cease. This may happen from the sac being entirely, or almost entirely, filled with coagulated blood, and then the natural cure is nearly, if not completely effected, so that we have nothing to regret as to the ambiguity of the case. Pul- sation may, however, cease, although a cure be not approach- ing, for, especially if the sac be large, there may be so dense a lining of coagulum, such a thickness of parietes, such a soli- dity of the aneurism, as to prevent pulsation being perceived. This will more particularly happen, if the tumour be firmly bound down by a strong fascia, or wedged in a deep resisting cavity, such as the ham, where, although the tumour may not be solid, but some direct circulation still go on, it feels hard even as a scirrhus. In these cases, great attention is requisite, and we must inquire carefully into the history and previous symptoms, and press both above and below the tumour alternately, whilst we at the same time grasp the %tumour itself, and examine it in all its parts, to ascertain whether it can be compressed or diminished, or obscure pul- sation or thrilling can, under any circumstances, be detected. The effect of an aneurism, on the artery beyond it, is vari- able, and not always proportionate to the degree of circula- tion. Were there no direct transmission of blood through the sac, we could conceive that there might, at least till the collateral branches acquired a large size, be a diminished pul- sation in the limb below. But it is also possible for the pul- sation below to be bridled or diminished by the state of the sac. If there be a great quantity of coagulum in the sac, the pulsation in it is obscure, and so far as it is concerned, it can give little impulse to the artery below. If, by any cause the blood do not find its way freely and directly out by the infe- rior opening from the sac, the same must happen. It the collateral branches, under these circumstances, have not yet fully enlarged, or if the sac have acquired rapidly such a size as to compress the branches near it, the pulsation may also be affected. There is often pain in the aneurismal tumour, but still more frequently in the limb below, or parts beyond it. This may arise, not merely from the pressure made on the nerves, but also in some cases from the condition produced in the limb itself by the state of the circulation, and the same circum- stances may produce coldness, numbness, prickling, oedema, &c. The watery swelling may be so great as to involve and obscure the local or aneurismal tumour. The increase of the tumour also, by its pressure, as well as by communication of diseased action, injures the neighbouring parts, and causes both destruction, suppuration, and absorption. In the ham, for instance, the joint is affected, the bones more or less absorbed, the muscles diseased, and thus, even although the aneurism do not burst, it may prove fatal by its effects on the constitution. A true aneurism, whether formed by a partial or more extensive distention of the coats, is still in one sense an arte- rial tube, and as this tube or cavity, however shaped, becomes more or less thickened at its parietes by layers of coagulum,461 it might be expected that it should continue safely to transmit blood. But this is only one view of the case; for as we have just seen it is also a tumour capable of inflaming or slough- ing, and, in some instances, even ol bursting, by laceration of a point where the coats had become very thin. Soonei 01 later, then, every aneurism which retains the power of receiv- ing blood, must open and discharge its contents. The inflam- mation preceding this, sometimes, does obliterate the vessel opening into the sac, and thus a natural cure is obtained, provided the strength can be kept up during the process of sloughing and ulceration. In other instances, by some cause or other, the blood coagulates in the sac, and lendeis it a solid tumour; permanent obstruction is afforded to the pas- sage of the blood, and the artery comes, at, and for some way above, its entrance, and for some way below its exit, to be obliterated. This is a safer way of effecting a natural cure, and it has in various instances taken place. Art can only imitate nature, or employ means for producing the same result, namely, coagulation of the blood, and the conversion of a cavity containing a fluid, into a solid mass or tumour. Solidity is the end, coagulation the means, and whatever can produce universal coagulation, must, if an aneurism can be cured, cure that aneurism, and do so just as effectually as if the tumour were cut out. The old practice was to remove the tumour after tying the artery above and below. Then the site was made to suppurate. Others passed a double liga- ture under the sac, and tied the upper and lower portions separately, as we still do in the case of some excrescences. The sac was then opened, and part of its parietes cut off. But this plan of excision soon yielded to that of applying a tourniquet, opening the sac, searching for the orifices of the vessel, and tying these, or applying over them a button of vitriol, or the hot iron, and then compresses. It is useless in the present day, when we have so many good compilations of practice, to detail all the various modifications proposed; for the principle was the same in all, namely, to obliterate the orifices of the artery, generally by the ligature, and then to heal the sac by granu- lation. It is evident that such operations must have beenmost dangerous ; for, setting aside the evils arising from exten- sive suppuration, and great constitutional disorder, the very inflammation, which preceded the suppuration, could not be limited in its influence to the part itself, but must have power- fully affected the limb below, which was in a state ill calcu- lated to bear disease of any kind, and especially such as were attended with much excitement. Hence many were cut off by gangrene, instead of being destroyed by hectic fever, or constitutional excitement. But farther, even if those evils did not take place, the patient was in great danger of being killed by a sudden haemorrhage; for the artery was tied in an unsound part, and no dependance could be placed on adhe- sion, nay, on the contrary, it must have happened that he who unwittingly tied the artery farthest from the disease, or made, what must then have been considered, the most uncalled for dissection, should have succeeded best, whilst he who exposed no more than was barely necessary to secure the orifices, must have uniformly failed. All these evils led Mr. Pott, who was inferior to no surgeon of his time in this or any other country, decidedly to say, that amputation was preferable to the opera- tion for aneurism ; and when amputation could not be per- formed, we well know that surgeons at that time were not prepared to tie an artery. Mr. Hunter, who was among the first who seems to have thought it necessary to apply the principles of philosophy and science to his profession, and who indeed may be considered as the parent of modern sur- gery, explained one chief cause of failure, namely, the state of the artery as it enters the aneurism. I_Ie was a man of strong good sense, of an inquiring, and even speculative mind, united to great industry, and enthusiasm in his profession. Plis defi- ciency in many points of reasoning, his eccentricities and substitution of final for efficient causes, as well as his igno- rance of the literature, as it may be called, of his profession, and the consequences resulting therefrom, afford strong argu- ments in favour of a liberal education. But his lot was so cast, that with little preliminary education, he could, by his own powers, make a progress beyond other men: and, although he can be no example for those who have less talent, and not463 the same ardour, he perhaps went farther, from being obliged to trust to his own resources, and left unfettered by current opinions. Pie proposed to leave the sac entire, and apply a ligature farther up on the main trunk leading to it. For instance, on the femoral artery, in the case of popliteal aneu- rism. This at least got rid of two evils. It led to the appli- cation of the ligature to a sound part of the artery, and it avoided all the evils resulting from the exposure of the sac. But it was productive of a benefit incalculably greater, for it laid the foundation of a bold and scientific practice, which has not yet perhaps been carried to its full extent. It is not detracting from Mr. Hunter’s merit to admit, that others had adopted the same practice before him, for he not only did not know of this, but went beyond them, inasmuch as he pro- ceeded on principle, and established a distinct, and scien- tific rule. AEtius and Paulus are by no means entitled to the merit; and Guillemeau and Thevenin repeat merely their directions. Guillemeau, in a case of aneurism at the bend of the arm, tied the artery three finger breadth below the axilla, and afterwards opened the aneurism, washed, and dressed it with iEgyptiacum. He adds, that if an aneurism should appear in any other part, he would expose the artery near its root, and tie it in the same way, sans autre cere- monie.” If by this expression he mean that he would dis- pense with the opening of the sac, then he is the first who took this view of the subject, but it is not so clear that this is his meaning. Anel seems to have been the first who prac- tised the modern operation. When at Rome, he performed, on the 30th of January, 1710, his operation on a missionary, who had an aneurism at the bend of the arm. He exposed the brachial artery above the tumour, and tied it with two ligatures. Then finding that the pulsation in the aneurism had ceased, he did no more. Next day, the pulse was felt at the wrist. The first ligature came away on the 17th, the second on the 27th day. He sayshe left the sac entire, being convinced that the blood would be dispersed of its own accord. Mr. Hunter, in October 1785, proposed, on sound principles, to tie the femoral artery in popliteal aneurism, and performed the operation successfully.464 Desault, it is contended, in the same year, but in the month o( June, performed a similar operation, but it is radically different, for he tied the artery much nearer the tumour. He made an incision two inches long above the tumour, detached the artery, and tied it; but if he proceeded on scien- tific principles, he went far wrong in his choice of a spot, and the result showed this, for on the 18th day, the ligature came off. Next day much matter and blood came away, and the tumour disappeared, showing, that although fortunately the arterial trunk had been obliterated, yet the artery was tied too near the sac, which had given way, and discharged its contents. Three principles seem now to be admitted. First, That it is necessary to tie a healthy or sound part of the artery. Second, That it is not necessary that the ligature should be applied near the tumour, provided there be no way of throw- ing blood freely into the intervening trunk. Third, That the absorbents are competent to the removal of the coagulated blood in the sac and extremities of the artery, and the absorp- tion being completed, these parts are converted into a sub- stance of a dense appearance, improperly called ligament. When the trunk going to the tumour is tied at a considerable distance from the aneurism, the intervening portion of artery is not empty. It still from communicating branches receives blood; there is, in one way or other, a quantity of blood sent to it, and if it were divided, or even punctured, blood would flow freely. Hence, it is evident that the sac, even after the operation, must receive blood, and, in some instances, the pulsation speedily returns in the aneurism; nay, it is pos- sible for the operation completely to fail. The sac is not obliterated; it is hurried on to inflammation, sloughs, and haemorrhage takes place. This indeed is not a common ter- mination ; for although blood still find its way into the sac, and even pulsation be reproduced, yet the current is slow, more and more coagulum is formed within the parietes, and ultimately, as in a spontaneous cure, the whole becomes solid. In this case, the cure is neither so tedious as that effected occa- sionally by nature, nor is it so rapid as that produced by more465 complete stoppage of circulation. We are not to suppose that languid transmission of blood into the sac, or slow motion through it, shall produce a general coagulation. This only favours the formation of successive layers, by which the cavity is at last filled. Even in the most rapid cure, this is the mode, but not the only step; for whilst this goes on, the sac also con- tracts or diminishes in size, closing in, as it were, on the dimi- nished quantity of blood, or fluid of whatever kind, that may be in it. If we examine an aneurism ten days or a fortnight after the operation, we shall find the size to be less, the parietes thickly lined with layers of lymph and clotted blood, and the central part filled with bloody fluid like sanies; both orifices are pervious. The fluid therefore is blood, altered in its appear- ance after death, and it is clear, that excepting that the blood may have been moving more slowly, and in less quantity through the sac, the circumstances are, in so far as the character of aneurism is concerned, just the same as before the operation. If the sac were opened, or the artery punctured just at its entrance or exit from the sac, blood would flow. Did we stop, then, at this point, the operation must be considered as inefficient. But we find that at a later period the coagulation has advanced more, the orifices also are plugged with clotted blood, and although pervious after this is removed, yet they, as well as the whole sac, contract as absorption goes on, and come finally to be obliterated. The arterial orifice is indeed permanently obliterated before the contents of the sac have been all absorbed. The first step towards this, is when the sac is filled with coagulum, and an obstacle afforded to the passage of any fluid blood from the artery above. If at this time, perhaps three weeks after the operation, we examine the sac, we find it filled either with a solid mixture of blood and fibrin, or with a softer substance like thick mortar, and of a brown colour. In either case, the oi’ifices are still in general pervious when the clot is removed. The permanent obliteration, then, of the arterial orifices is not a rapid pro- cess ; and it may be several weeks, or even more, before it be completed. When it is accomplished, we seldom find that the obliteration goes high. It has doubtless gone as far up as 2 irthe spot where the ligature was applied, but generally it stops a little way above the remains of the sac, and the trunk is pervious from that, up to the spot where it was tied. It receives blood by collateral branches, and gives it out again by small vessels, but it is of no importance to the limb as a medium of circulation. Sometimes the vein also is obliterated to a great extent, although not injured apparently by the operation. When we attend next to the state of the ramifications of the artery above the part where it has been tied, we find, that from the moment of the operation, there is an impulse given to them. The blood which ought to have gone directly along the obstructed trunk is directed to these branches, which enlarge with more or less rapidity, and very universally, so that the member above, and just below, the ligature is much more vascular than before the operation. These branches, by their free communication with others still lower, transmit blood to them, and, to a certain extent, the circulation in them becomes retrograde, their ramuli being converted into ramuli of those from above, and enlarging so as to constitute branches of a higher order, and sending downward their pro- longations. It is even possible for blood to move in a retro- grade course all along some of them to the trunk itself, which thus becomes supplied, though neither so forcibly nor so fully as formerly, with blood. Were it not for this, we never should have haemorrhage from the lower orifice of a divided artery, nor should the aneurismal tumour receive any blood after the ligature was applied. The establishment of a retro- grade circulation, to a certain extent, is the work only of a moment. It is quite clear, then, that the aneurism is supplied with blood immediately after the ligature is applied, but it is supplied under different circumstances. Although still full, yet it receives less in a given time, and what it does receive comes to it with a diminished force, and passes through it with less velocity. The pulsation is instantly stopped, and never returns, unless the circulation be more freely restored than is usual in the trunk leading to the tumour, d here is an immediate effort made, on applying the ligature, to send blood by the neighbouring branches, and these enlarge first467 and fastest near the ligature. For a little way below this, there can be no material diminution of supply, even for a moment, and very soon there is an increased quantity circu- lating there. But it is different with the limb below. If the femoral artery, for instance, be tied on account of popliteal aneurism, it is quite different with the leg and the thigh. The leg and foot are not supplied so freely as formerly by the direct circulation, and they are not so well supplied by anastomosis, at first, as the thigh near the ligature is. They are not destitute, but they are curtailed in their allowance of blood. There is, however, a greater promptitude of enlargement and transmission in some cases than in others, and a differ- ence in the effect of diminished circulation. In some, the tem- perature falls rapidly, particularly in the foot; in others, it does not fall for some hours, or not at all. The diminution of tem- perature announces both abridged supply of blood, and im- paired nervous power and action. It is, therefore, dangerous if it proceed far, and continue long, for the extreme parts die. It is usual, however, for the temperature to rise, and increased action to take place, whilst the power is not increased. This proceeds from the circumstance, that the trunk below the sac, or coming off from it, does not transmit blood, at least in its wonted degree, for it immediately begins to contract, and soon is found to become small. The collateral branches in the mean- time are enlarging, and in their tract there must be increased action, productive sometimes of gangrene. There is in the whole limb a new state of the circulation, a new distribution of vessels, but this is not permanent; for it is now ascertained, that although at first every branch be called on to do its utmost, yet presently many of these decrease again, whilst one or two continue to enlarge still more, and become trunks. Another circumstance connected with the operation is, that whilst there is an excitement and activity of all the branches, the sac does not escape. It still, as we have seen, receives some blood, but it propels it more slowly. The very languor of the cir- culation, which in one respect is beneficial, leads to a gorging of the sac, and if the inferior aperture become closed before the superior, this distention is farther increased. Add to this,468 tliat the sac participates in the general excitation of the member, and then we shall not wonder that occasionally it should swell after the operation, and inflame, or even slough. Looking at these evils, it is obvious, that when we add to them the effect produced on the constitution by the ligature of an artery, it would be desirable to pei'form the operation at a time when the collateral branches might be supposed to have already enlarged, and the limb to have got over the immediate evils of the changes I have mentioned. This led, I doubt not, to a proposal to delay the operation as long as possible, in order that the anastomosing branches might have enlarged. But there is not one advice, in all surgery, more contrary to sound and correct principle, dhe collateral branches cannot enlarge, unless the sac be more or less obstructed, and in that case there is a chance of a sponta- neous cure. Every day that we delay, increases the injury to the limb, and at last we have a distended and debilitated sac, an cedematous leg, a trustless condition of the artery, and a constitution prone to disease. The wonder in such circumstances is, not that the operation should fail, but that it should ever succeed. Much may be said in favour of an early operation, but nothing—no, not the most trifling specu- lation, if we except the poor and forlorn hope of a spontaneous cure, in support of an hour’s delay. I much suspect that many limit their views to the sound or unhealthy state of the artery where it is tied; or if they extend then appiehensions farther than a failure from the condition of the ti unk, confine them to the simple effect of diminished circulation on the limb. I wish most decidedly to impress the student with the belief, that the mere tying of an artery is a serious operation. Let him select any one trunk he will, and tie it, he shall find the constitution to suffer much more than can be accounted for, merely by the extent of wound necessary for the ope- ration. It will at once be said that there is also the state of the limb below to be taken into account, and, doubtless, this is worthy of most serious consideration, from its effects on the system. But, independent of this, the mere injury, inflicted on the arterial tube, has a powerful influence on theconstitution, even although the vessel should not, as is not unfrequently the case, become inflamed for some way up the canal. I know it will be objected to this, that in amputation of limbs, we every day tie both the trunk and the branches with impunity. But setting aside the possibility that the exten- sive wound inflicted, and the necessary processes commenced, and carried on, immediately thereafter, were so powerful as to concentrate, as it were, the action and influence, and call it off more from the artery, we do know that, practically, there is a difference between the result of the two cases. For second- ary haemorrhage is much more frequent after tying an artery in a limb, otherwise entire, than after amputation. Another very material point to be attended to is, that in amputation, or the extirpation of tumours, even if the constitution should suffer, there is no part beyond the wound, and in a state pre- disposed to disease, which can be acted on, and manifest the influence exerted. In some cases, however, the wound or stump may be affected, and from this cause a tedious cure, if a cure be allowed, is the result. But in tying the artery of an aneurismal or wounded limb, we have a member beyond the injured part, brought into a new and disordered mode of acting, into a state not only less able to sustain the effect of any disturbed condition produced on the constitution, and, of course, acting on it, but also capable in its turn of acting on the whole system, and particularly on the rest of the members at and above the wound. No wonder, then, that the tied part of the artery should suffer, and the ligature fail. This constitutional effect, of merely tying arteries, is not con- fined to the human subject, but is universal amongst all animals. Dogs suffer, and if more than one main trunk be tied at the same time, they either sink or make a hairbreadth escape. I' rogs suffer more from having the popliteal artery or vein tied than from cutting off the limb, and often, they die within twenty-four hours. The immediate effect of tying the artery is to produce a languid circulation in the web, but each branch and capillary continues to receive and transmit some blood. If the animal do not recover, the circulation gradually ceases. It is probable that the same happens aftertying the femoral artery in men, namely, that the circulation is brisker in the extreme vessels immediately after the opera- tion, than it is at a period some hours later, at least, in those cases where the part is to sink. If we tie the femoral vein, the circulation in the web is, for a moment, rather excited, and then ceases. Presently it begins slowly in the arteries, one after another beginning to exhibit motion. Then the blood is seen to move slowly but distinctly. Besides other effects, in the human subject, we find that inflammation is apt to take place in the tract of the artery toward the heart, and suppuration may form with very little pain or local indication, but merely with fever and sinking. If the carotid artery be tied in a healthy state, as, for instance, for the purpose of influencing a tumour, &c. farther up, the patient may die within a few days, and, on inspection, pus is found in the mediastinum. It may be apprehended, that in this case the mischief had in part arisen from the implication of the twigs of the sympa- thetic nerve, and I am not willing to disregard this. But in arteries which have no ganglionic nerves, the same may happen. For instance, if the artery at the groin be tied, sup- puration may take place within the pelvis, the vessel then becomes involved in the disease, and secondary hasmorrhage proves, if not the immediate cause of death, at least a certain prevention of recovery. Either the artery or the vein, or both, may suppurate and open. In some cases the vessel gives way above, in some below the ligature, or the part where it had been applied, if it have come away, or sometimes at the exact line of the application. It is always a suspicious cir- cumstance if any sinus remain after the ligature have come away, and particularly if the orifice of that be protuberant, like the fungous opening leading to a carious bone. It will be found that there is a deposition of gelatinous looking sub- stance over the vessels, and in the cellular substance, more resembling coagulated albumen than fibrin, and the fungus at the orifice is not organized, but is a similar substance imbued with blood. The constitutional effects of tying an artery are not always the same. Sometimes the first symptoms are coldness and471 sickness, with nausea or vomiting. In other cases, there is no marked affection of the stomach, but a sensation of coldness, although the skin be actually of an increased temperature. The pulse becomes frequent, and sometimes full and hard. The bowels are disordered, generally inactive. The nervous system is affected; there is a feeling of lassitude, and almost always of restlessness, and not unfrequently more or less deli- rium. The breathing is sometimes oppressed, and there may be pain in the chest, but it is doubtful if these symptoms appear unless arteritis have taken place. It is quite conceiv- able that these effects should, in some instances, exhaust the patient, and that he should sink at last, under circumstances much resembling those which terminate a common fevex*. But much oftenei*, either gangrene takes place, or hae morrhage occurs. In oi’der to lessen the hazard of the artei'y being injui'ed to a greater degree than was necessary by the ligature, it has been proposed to apply it only for a short time. Mr. Hodgson applied three ligatures to the carotid artery within the sixth of an inch of each othei’, and immediately removed them. The animal was examined three months afterwards, when the canal was found to be only straitened. Mr. Travers tried on the horse a longer application, from one to six houi’s, after which the ligature was removed, and the tube was obliterated in consequence of the injui’y. M. Maunoii’, improving on this idea, proposes merely to squeeze the artei'y with a pair of forceps. Othei’s have tried the effect, even on the human subject, of applying, for some houi’s, a broad tape, or compres- sing the artery by one mean or other, for twenty-four horn's, and fortunately without damage. From my own expei’iments and obsei'vations, I would be inclined to doubt the efficacy of temporai-y compression, and to discredit altogethei', that of merely tying the vessel, and then removing the ligature. I am convinced, that the safest plan is to tie the artery as usual. The ligature of reserve being exploded, I need not use any argument against it. Whether we look at the local consequences, or the general condition induced after the operation, we shall find that the danger much oftener arises from excitement and overaction,472 than from direct weakness. Our object, then, must be, clearly, to operate as early as possible; or if the system have suf- fered, or the limb become oedematous or diseased, we endea- vour, by mild laxatives, light diet, and rest, to bring the con- stitution into a better state, and remove, as far as we can, the unfavourable condition of the limb. If the pulse be full and throbbing, it has been proposed to abstract blood, but this is never to be done hastily, and often such a state of the pulse will be found to depend on aneurism of the aorta, or of the origin of one of the great vessels it gives off. It seems to be admitted, that if there be two aneurisms, the progress of the one is accelerated by operating for the cure of the other, and the second operation, so far as I have seen, is more hazardous than the first. Still, as death may pos- sibly be averted, the chance ought to be taken. But if there be an internal aneurism evidently existing, an operation should only be performed at the entreaty of the patient, and after explaining to him, not only the futui’e consequences of that aneurism, but the greater risk of death soon after the operation. When the temperature sinks after the operation, we must be careful not to excite the limb too much by heat, nor injure it by cold. It is in general quite sufficient to cover the part with a bad conducter of heat, such as flannel, cotton wool, &c. so as to allow it slowly to accumulate a little heat, rather beyond the temperature which it would otherwise possess. The direct application of heat is injurious, or if practised at all, must be made with the greatest circumspection. When the temperature rises, we must, on the other hand, be cautious in the application of cold, for the limb is delicate, and easily injured. It is better to have it only lightly covered with linen or gauze for some time. At most, we should only sponge it occasionally with cool water, for evaporating lotions, as they are called, are apt to sink the part too fast. If fever be produced, with general disorder of the system, purgatives are safer than the lancet, unless in those cases where particular symptoms demand it, such as pain of the side, violent throbbing in the head, &c. When we do bleed,it must be done with circumspection, for the limb is apt to suffer from copious evacuation. The utmost attention should be paid to the diet and general treatment after the operation, for causes apparently trifling may induce constitutional disorder, such as frequent and irre- gular pulse, great feeling of debility, and even the stools and urine may be passed involuntarily. These symptoms are always attended with coldness of the limb, but it still lives. By the use of opium and cordials, a patient has been recovered from this state of prostration, but the limb has immediately become insufferably hot, and then gangrene has begun, and a second attack of sinking has taken place. From this he may perhaps be again raised, and either after a hard struggle reco- ver, or after rallying a little, he may irretrievably sink. In all such cases we never give more cordials, or a higher stimulus than the ui*gency of the case actually demands, and with all our care, it is, perhaps, impossible to avoid undue excitation of the limb by the stimulation of the system. Light and fre- quently repeated nourishment, with stimulants which act more on the stomach itself, than universally on the nervous system, should be tried first. Of these stimulants, spiceries, aromatic spirit of hartshorn in small doses, a little carbonate of ammonia, &c. may be noticed. Wine, brandy, and tinc- tures, must be given with a sparing hand, and only in urgent cases. Opium is chiefly useful when there is great irritability of the stomach, or pain in the limb, or restlessness and irrita- tion of the system. Quinine may with propriety be given when gangrene is threatened, provided it do not excite the circulation. Gangrene much more frequently proceeds from overaclion of the limb than from mere defect of circulation, and this ought to be attended to in the administration of stimulants. Although mortification, from either of these causes, may begin in the toes, yet this is not always the case, for more especially, in consequence of excitation, it may begin on the foot, or lower part of the leg, or even at the wound itself. When gangrene takes place and spreads, amputation has been proposed, but this operation is much more dangerous474 after the artery has been tied, than before it, for the branches are more enlarged and excited, and the limb, independently of the effects of the e;an<n-ene, in an unfavourable state. If the vessel give way at the part where it was tied, amputation has also been proposed, but the same unfavourable condition of the limb, and excited state of the vessels exist. It is better, though far from being a plan to be depended on, to tie the artery higher than where it has given way, if that be practi- cable. When an artery is tied between the heart and the tumour, the direct current of blood toward the sac is checked, and the sac can only receive blood by communicating branches. 4 he circulation then becomes languid in the sac, and if the inferior aperture should become obstructed by coagulum, whilst blood can in any degree enter by the superior one, it must become gorged, and possibly may be distended even to such a degree as to prove one cause of that inflammation which sometimes attacks the sac. It has been proposed, when the artery could not be tied between the heart and the sac, to apply the ligature beyond the aneurism, so as to obstruct the passage of the blood out of it. This was put in practice by Deschamps, and the proposal has lately been more decidedly brought for- ward, and acted on, by Mr. Wardrop. lhat it should be effectual, may at first sight be readily believed, when we con- sider that the transmission of blood being stopped, coagulation should take place. But we shall begin to doubt, if we con- sider, that when an artery is divided, and false aneurism formed, no direct transmission takes place, and yet a cure is not effected. It may be said, that in this case there is no regular sac, but a dilatable cavity, with which the aiteiy is connected, as we have seen, in such circumstances as must render obliteration difficult. On the other hand, in true aneurism, there is a regular cyst, often strengthened by layers of coagulated blood, and therefore when it is once filled, no more should enter, stagnation should take place, and the mouth be closed. This, doubtless, may be the case, but it is also to be remembered, that an artery does not close, or become obli- terated, either so rapidly or so easily as some suppose. In47-5 the present instance, the blood flows in a full stream to the sac, and finding no way of getting through it, there must, at the systole of the artery, if such be admitted, be a retrograde motion, however limited in degree that may be. There must, so long as the artery is pervious, be a distended state of the vessel, and a kind of oscillatory motion of blood in the orifice; whereas, in the other way of operating, the direct current being checked, the artery contracts more, and closes sooner. It is, therefore, from this view, by no means unlikely, that the oblitei'ation of the artery should be effected more slowly, and the sac be longer of being obliterated. But it is said, that when blood can no longer pass through the sac, it instantly changes its direction, in the same way as is seen in obstructing the current in one of the vessels of a frog’s foot. The stream is directed to the collateral branches, and the tumour becomes slacker and smaller almost immediately. The principle cannot be disputed. It is the one on which we rely for the re-establishment of the circulation whenever we tie an arterial trunk. But circumstances may impede the operation of this principle. If the sac be at all dilatable, it cannot operate, and at every pulsation the blood must oscillate. If pressing below the sac render, in a doubtful case, the pul- sation more distinct in an aneurism, it is evident that the blood sent from the upper orifice must impinge with more force against the sac, and in so far as reasoning, founded on this view goes, we should say, that it is only when the sac is possessed of firm coagulated boundaries, which can neither contract nor dilate, that this principle should be expected freely and powerfully to operate. We have as yet too few cases before us to judge upon. I have myself made no trial of the plan, but from the cases which are published from first to last, am satisfied, that we ought to limit the proposal to those aneu- risms where a ligature cannot safely be applied in the usual way. Knowing that the cure of aneurism depends on the con- solidation of the contents of the tumour, and the oblitera- tion of the arterial tube, it may properly be inquired whether it be possible to effect these purposes without tying the artery. I47 6 There are instances where the sac becomes so thickly lined with coagulum, as to form a solid mass, with the exception of a canal in the centre through which the blood passes. This is one way in which a natural cure takes place, or rather in which the progress of the disease is checked. For although it be possible for absorption of the lining to take place, and the coats of the artery to contract, so as to assume more of the natural condition, yet this change is never perfect, and is more hypothetical than proved. On the other hand, the parietes, so long as they remain thick and padded with coagulum or fibrin, are never to be trusted. They may last for life, but they may also go wrong, and the tumour, like others, may inflame and perish. The only perfect security, then, is obliteration. Some natural causes which we cannot explain may produce languid circulation, and lead to this. Others are more evident. It has, for example, been found, that the sac has so extended over the arterial tube entering into it, and so pressed upon it, as to obstruct the circulation, and cause obliteration. Artificial means have been resorted to for producing coagulation, or restraining the impetus of the blood. One mode consists in keeping the patient very low, avoiding every thing which can excite the system; nay, absolutely starving him, and, at the same time, we are ad- vised to aid this by venesection. This was so strongly enforced by Valsalva as to be called his method. He bled freely, and confined the patient to half a pound of light pudding for breakfast, a quarter of a pound for supper, and his drink, which was only water, was also restricted to a moderate allow- ance. By these means he brought his patient into a state ol weakness so great, that he could scarcely lift his hand in bed. Then the aliment was gradually given in greater quan- tity, and when the strength returned, the aneurism was ex- pected to be cured. We have seen that there is a species ot aneurism, if we define the disease so as to admit it, where the artery is simply dilated, and in such cases this plan may be of service, if not pushed to an unreasonable degree; but it is very difficult during life to draw the diagnosis. In aneurism of the aorta, and in other aneurisms so situated as not to477 permit of an operation, the proposal may be urged with more force than in external aneurism. Whilst I admit that there are instances of true aneurism which appear to have been cured by this mode, I am also compelled to say, that it is very far indeed from being worthy of dependance. I make no account of its supposed utility in cases of mere dilatation, for these, if not exasperated and excited by imprudence, may be kept at bay, or at most require only a moderate regimen. A very small proportion of actual aneurisms have been cured in this way. Some have been diminished, and a few have been cured. It is easy to bring forward fourteen or twenty cases of reputed cures; but, taking these as indisputable and well authenticated, what are they to the total number ? and I would ask any one practitioner, how many instances in his own practice he could say had been cured ? I believe the general answer would be, that whilst this contra-stimulant plan, carried to a reasonable extent, seemed in several in- stances, to prolong life, and formed a striking contrast to the result of excitement, whether produced by bodily exertion, mental anxiety, or intemperance of any description, yet scarcely one had been cured. Without meaning to depre- ciate the system of depletion, I would wish to remind the surgeon, that a state of excitement may actually be produced by venesection. This I have already explained, and although it may be said, that as the force of the circulation must be impaired, and the quantity of fluid in the vessels diminished, such an excitation can have no bad effect, yet this is by no means proved. It accords with reason, that such a state of the vascular system, as I have represented, should be capable of acting injuriously on the aneurism. It is not supposed to be able to contract to the same degree with healthy arterial tubes, and a gorging of the sac, or accumulation of the blood there, should take place, and that to such an extent as, in some instances, to produce sudden death. We ought, there- fore, never to push our evacuations so far as to call for great and rapid contraction of the arterial system. Even abstinence may be hurtful. In general, it produces a feeble, and perhaps soft pulse; but it may also, if pushed far, from its local effect478 on die stomach, give rise to excitement and irritation of the system. Digitalis has been proposed, to diminish both the force and velocity of the circulation, but I know no instance where it has been useful, and from its elfects on the system it may be injurious. The application of ice, or iced water, has been proposed in order to coagulate the blood, but the proposal is altogether speculative. We may freeze, but cannot coagulate blood in the vessels by cold, and he would be a rash man who would venture, even if he could, to freeze the blood in an aneurismal sac. One effect might certainly be looked for, namely, sloughing. And Mr. Hodgson mentions a case of inguinal aneurism, where it produced so much pain that it could not be continued. I have detailed, in a former part of this work, some experiments, proving that the temperature of the in- ternal parts may be diminished by applying a great degree of cold to the surface, but these do not show that any change was produced on the blood. We may, indeed, diminish the quantity in the capillaries, but this can have no effect on the aneurism. I know it will be said, that Guerin effected a cure both in a case of crural and of axillary aneurism; but it is very doubtful how far, in either of these instances, cold could be considered as the agent in recovery. In other cases, it has been also said to be successful; but in these it was combined with the plan of Valsalva. Coagulation of the blood in the sac being the immediate cause of a cure, it is very natural to mquiie, vhethei any other mode of compressing, besides the use of the ligature, could be effectual ? Three modes have been proposed. First, to place a compress on the tumour itself, and apply a roller over that; second, to press above; and, thirdly, below the sac. Any one of these should be effectual could a sufficient degree of pressure be permanently and efficiently kept up. Pressure on the aneurism must be in one respect dangerous, in as much as it acts on a morbid part, and may produce inflammation. But if it can be regularly, efficiently, and gently applied, there is no reason to object to the trial. I4<79 have, however, only known of one instance of a cure, and that was of popliteal aneurism. The gentleman afterwards died of aneurism of the aorta. Various bandages and machines have been contrived for pressing on the artery above the sac, none of which are admissible, excepting those which do not act on the collateral branches. But even in the best manner of applying pressure, it is evident that the accompanying vein and nerve must be acted on, and, therefore, in so far as any other consideration, besides the pain of exposing the artery, may be concerned, it is not in any respect superior to the operation, whilst, in other respects, it is attended with all its hazards, and some peculiar to itself. It has been followed by inflammation and gangrene, and when these events did not take place, it has failed, even in favourable cases, although tried for a month. It is also, if earned to an efficient degree, often attended with great pain. Vernet tried the third method in an aneurism at the upper part of the thigh : but the aneurism increased rapidly in size, and pulsated more strongly. He, therefore, abandoned the plan. No subsequent trial has tended to give more confidence; and of all the modes of using compression, this seems deservedly to be the least popular. Veins consist of two proper coats, with an external or cel- lular covering. The internal membrane, which is a con- tinuation of the lining of the right side of the heart, is supple, and does not break or give way under the action of a ligature, like the internal membrane of an artery. In its natural state, it is considered to be insensible; for neither mechanical nor chemical stimulants seem to give pain. It is also appaiently destitute of the power of absorption. This internal membrane forms, at various intervals, dupli- catuies known under the name of valves, which prevent the return of the blood towards the extremities. These valves, however, become less prominent in an enlarged or distended state of the vein, and consequently the reflux of the blood may, in that condition, be permitted to a greater degree than in a contracted state. But there are limits to this. Secondly, beyond this is the peculiar venous coat,4 480 which consists partly of interlacing, but principally of longi- tudinal fibres, which are more evident in the superficial than in the deep-seated veins. They are also more distinct in the smaller branches than in the trunks. This coat, which has a mixed appearance of cellular and fibrous substance, is, as well as the internal membrane, easily dilated, and is almost devoid of elasticity. It is also difficult to break it. There are few, if any transverse fibres. Thirdly, we have a cellular coat similar to that of the artery, but neither so dense, so firm, nor so distinct. Lastly, this layer is connected to the neighbouring parts by still looser cellular substance, which improperly enough has been considered as a fourth coat. Veins possess few or no nerves. When a vein is punctured, the blood seldom flows very freely, unless the trunk above be obstructed. The flow either ceases spontaneously by coagulation in the wound, or is easily stopped by pressure. Adhesion readily takes place between the cut surfaces, and the integrity of the vein is restored without any diminution of its capacity. It a vein be completely divided, the blood flows until the mouth of the vessel be closed by a coagulum. This, in a small vein, is effected early and easily. In a large .vein, it may not be accomplished until much blood be lost, and both the strength and the celerity of the current be checked by syncope. In veins of still greater size, the flow, in many instances, will continue until fatal effects be produced. External pressure, if efficiently applied, is capable of immediately repressing haemorrhage from the division of the largest vein, and its mouth is presently closed by adhesion. This is very different from what occurs when an artery is wounded. And this comparative facility, with which venous hsemoi- rhage may be repressed, is, in a great measure, attributable to the mechanical properties of the vein, conjoined with the inferiority of the vis a tergo. The blood is also supposed to be drawn towards the heart by suction. But into the truth of this physiological question, I do not mean to inquire. When a vein is wounded, its sides ought to be laid as accu- rately together as possible, and we ought, at the same time, to be particularly careful to have the surfaces of the super-481 jacent parts kept in contact. This, in small wounds, and when the vein is superficial, as in the ordinary operation of bloodletting, may be effected by merely pressing the lips together, and then applying a small compress, over which a bandage is to be rolled with sufficient firmness. This both preserves contact, and represses bleeding. The thickness of the compress, and the tightness of the bandage, must be regulated by the size of the vein, the extent of the wound, and the disposition to bleed. When a large artery is seated immediately below the vein, the pulsation renders it more difficult to repress haemorrhage. When much pressure is required, it will be necessary to diffuse it from the very ex- tremity of the limb to a little above the wound, otherwise the bandage will be little better than a ligature; and the ex- tremity below will become swelled and numb. When there is a difficulty in retaining the external surfaces of the wound in contact, we must previously apply strips of adhe- sive plaster. Should it be necessary to apply pressure on a vein, where we dare not use a tight bandage, as, for instance, on the neck, we must take the assistance of a thick and graduated compress, at the same time, that we take the benefit of the power of gravity in carrying on the blood by keeping the patient in a raised posture. In every instance, it is of great importance to promote adhesion of the wound as soon as possible. For, if it inflame and suppu- rate, inflammation may be communicated to the vein. And although this should not happen once in fifty such cases, yet the possibility of an evil so formidable occurring, is not to be disregarded. When large veins have been cut or punc- tured the bleeding is profuse, and that in proportion to the extent of the wound, and the impediment to the free trans- mission towards the heart. From an apprehension, that pressure may not be sufficient to repress the haemorrhage, at least without the use of plugs and sponges, which would produce a tedious suppuration, it has been proposed to tie a thread around the puncture in the vein, and I have certainly known this done with impunity. But, in other instances, the ligature applied either around the puncture, or the whole 2 i482 tube of the vein, lias been attended with fatal consequences. And the same have resulted from the division of a vein, and the application of a compress. The application ol a ligature has been followed by vomiting, fever, and delirium, ending with slow pulse; all which symptoms have speedily gone off on removing the ligature, and, therefore, they could not have arisen merely from inflammation. Inflammation of veins will hereafter be considered. When an artery is wounded through a vein, a natural cure is more easily effected than if no intermediate tube existed. It pressure be immediately applied, we often find that the external orifice closes, and adhesion takes place, so that both the skin, and the outer, or cutaneous face, or wall of the vein, become again entire. I shall presently notice the different states which may take place, but most frequently the communicat- ing orifices remain permanently open. The consequence of this is, that the blood, passing down by the artery, goes in part along the continuation of its trunk and ramifications to the extremity of the limb, whilst the rest enters the vein, which thus becomes very unnaturally grafted on, or attached to, the artery, and converted into a great but retrograde division of it. Three consequences result from this: First, the lower part of the limb must be supplied with a somewhat smaller quantity of blood than formerly, and the vessels must contract in the same proportion. Second, the blood from the artery impinging against the coats of the vein, must dilate these to a certain extent. The extent is limited by two causes; namely, the coats of the vein admitting only of a certain degree of distention, unless they be either diseased, or more violently acted on; and the formation of a varix, or enlargement, to such an extent as the coats permit, whereby the force of the arterial blood on these coats is lessened, and that, evidently, in proportion to the size of the varix. Third, in the portion of vein between the wound and the heart, there must be a mixed state of the blood, partly venous, partly arterial, and farther, there may be, by the flow of arterial blood into the vein, some resistance afforded to the free transmission of the blood from the extremities of the vein. The arterial blood483 being as likely to run in one direction as in another, and being only prevented from going toward the extremity by the valves, must, to the extent of its flow in that direction, impede the return of blood, and may induce an actual enlargement ol the venous branches. This is of more importance in injuries of the neck than elsewhere, as the brain may thus come to suffer; and in order to prevent immediate danger, copious venesection may be required. When, in venesection, the artery at the bend of the arm is is wounded through the vein, the blood flows impetuously, par saltum, and is of a florid colour. But both of these circum- stances may occur, although only the vein be opened. In many cases the blood is florid, as it flows from the vein, and the motion of the artery below may cause it to come in jerks. A moderate pressure, however, above and below the orifice, always stops venous, but not arterial haemorrhage, whilst the latter is increased according to the degree of pressure below the aperture. When the accident happens, the lips of the wound are to be laid accurately together, and a firm, gradu- ated, and sufficiently thick compress is to be placed on it, and retained by a suitable narrow bandage, applied with a sufficient degree of tightness, to restrain completely the bleed- ing. If the tightness require to be considerable, it may be necessary to apply a roller to the hand and forearm, in order to prevent these from swelling, and suffering by what would otherwise act like a local ligature. The arm is to be kept at perfect rest, and the bandage is not to be taken off for some days. If the compress adhere by blood, it is not to be re- moved, but the bandage is to be re-applied, and neither are to be dispensed with till the cicatrix be firm. By this treat- ment the aperture between the artery and the vein has been closed, probably first with a coagulum, and then, as that was absorbed, by organized substance, so that the integrity of the arterial tube has been restored. Even the vein may remain pervious, but more frequently its tube is obliterated at the spot, and forms a solid covering for the artery. If the pres- sure have been great, and have acted powerfully on one part, both artery and vein may be obliterated. But, in general,484. the aperture between the artery and vein remains open, and both tubes continue pervious, and then a varix, or enlarge- ment of the vein, speedily takes place. It does not in general acquire a large size, and sometimes the coats are merely dis- tended and thickened, or made stronger. In other cases, they seem indurated by something like a coating of fibrin within them, and then, although by pressure we can empty the varix, yet we find a thickening left, or there may be some more partial deposition, so that an induration like a bean may be felt. In many instances, the coats soon seem to assume the character belonging to arteries, and the size somewhat diminishes instead of increasing. The tumour is seldom larger than a chesnut, often not so large, always irregular in its shape, though inclin- ing to be oblong, and the cicatrix may, or may not, be very evident. In some instances, it has a red, or purple appear- ance, but it is not actually inflamed, nor does it fester or give way. The colour of the tumour is seldom like that of the rest of the skin, but like a venous tumour in other parts, only not so blue, or deep in the colour, being rather purple. On applying the finger to the tumour, there is sometimes perceived a distinct pulsation, like common aneurism, as well as a thrill within it. In other cases, there is no pulsation, or expansive motion. In this case, which is very common, if the finger be laid on the tumour, a thrill is perceived, not easily described, but at once recognized when met with. It is not unlike the sensation we might expect, were there a small wheel whirl- ing in the fluid contained in the varix, and this tin ill is perceptible for a little way up along the vein. It is stopt by pressing the artery above the tumour, which then feels like a common varix, and may be emptied by pressure, but instantly fills again, though without any thrill, if the finger still be pressing on the artery above. This thrill, or feeling of internal whirling, is always observed by placing the finger gently on the varix, if the artery be not compressed. But if, whilst we allow the artery to remain free, we press, not gently, but strongly with the finger on the varix, then, we so far empty it, as not to permit ot the whirl, and feel only the stiong pulsation of the artery below, which sometimes seems to be485 a little dilated. If we pinch up the varix between the finger and thumb, the thrill is lost, but the deeper throb is per- ceived. In noticing the consequences ol this injury, I men- tioned, that part of the blood from the artery returned by the venous trunk, and, therefore, there should be less circulating below. This position, however, seems to be more limited than we should at first suppose ; for the arm is rarely wasted, the pulse is often as strong at the wrist as formerly, and the power of the arm is not diminished. I know it is stated as a character of the disease, that the pulse at the wrist is weak, and this may be the case; but I am correct in saying, that it is not only not essential, but perhaps not general. It is natu- ral, however, to suppose, that much will depend on the size of the aperture in the artery ; and when the transmission is very copiously made into the vein, we may have the artery diminished below, and the pulse rendered weaker. It is rea- sonable to suppose, that the trunk of the artery above the orifice should be enlarged, in consequence of this large graft on the vessel, but even this is not invariably the case. As . more or less blood must, in every case, be sent off from the artery, there ought, at all events, to be a very different state of the vessels below, from that produced by false aneurism, for, there, the collateral branches ought to enlarge, here, they are rather curbed than excited. It may also be easily under- stood why an operation, such as that performed in ordinary aneurism, must fail, or be likely to prove fatal. For if we tie the artery above the varix or tumour, we indeed prevent the direct descent of the blood ; but, as in other cases, it finds its way to the trunk below, by anastomosing branches, and it would be a waste of time to prove that a part of this must, by a retrograde course, get to the aperture, and thence into the vein. The limb, then, is in a very different state from that after an operation for true aneurism, where the whole tendency must be to the enlargement of branches, and the supply of the limb below. The retrograde circulation can only fill the sac, and is not likely to pass up into its superior aperture, where indeed it would be met with blood furnished by collateral branches entering the trunk below the ligature.480 The sac soon is incapable of permitting even a languid circu- lation, owing to the coagulation of the blood. But in aneu- rismal varix, there is nothing to prevent a free retrograde circulation ; and in proportion as that takes place, the limb below must be deprived of blood, and the enlargement of the branches checked. If, then, we be ever to operate in this disease, we must tie both ends of the artery, otherwise the limb is sure to die. It is indeed in an evil hour that an ope- ration is proposed for the cure of aneurismal varix. There is scarcely a recorded instance where it has been necessary, or where the varix, if left to itself, ever proved fatal, or even interfered with the avocations of life. I can say, that whether the patient were a female, who gained her livelihood by con- stant sewing, or a collier, constantly working with the pick- axe, the tumour has remained alike stationary. The only period at which an accident, such as I am considering, can require an operation, is that immediately or speedily follow- ing the injury, and when we cannot safely by pressure con- trol the haemorrhage, perhaps from the extent of the wound or condition of the integuments. Then, indeed, whatever vessel may have been opened, we must expose it at the injured part, and tie both ends. In this case, no varix has formed, otherwise an operation would not have been required. Also, if, when both artery and veins are injured, the wound in the integuments alone should heal, but the artery and the vein do not remain in contact, nor their respective wounds opposite to, and connected with, each other, then we have a false aneurism produced, and the ordinary treatment required for that must be resorted to. The appearance produced by this, which has, without much reason, been called varicose aneurism, is partly that of false aneurism, partly of aneurismal varix, for there is a combination of both. There is the false or diffused aneu- rism under the strong fascia, and in so far circumscribed by it and its attachments. This pulsates like any other aneu- rism, but also, like other false aneurisms, cannot be emptied. It communicates with the vein, which is distended into a varix, and exhibits the character of the aneurismal varix, the hissing or whirl, &c. This disease, unlike the varix, is not to487 be trusted to nature, for it follows the course of aneurism; but it is very doubtful bow far the proposal of tying the artery above the tumour, can be trusted ; for, as there is a retrograde circulation, and an opening into the vein from the circumscribed sac, it is very uncertain if coagulation and obli- teration could take place. It is better to open the sac, and tie the artery. It has been supposed that there might be a double aneu- rismal varix, or that the state just described was really such, the superficial vein being first wounded, then one of the deep veins, and lastly the artery. The sac supposed to be formed under the fascia would, on this principle, really consist ol a dilated deep vein. But the whole of this rests for the present on mere speculation. Lastly, I must remark, that both the main artery of a limb, and its corresponding vein, may be wounded in such a way as that no connexion can take place between them, nor can we procure safely a union of the integuments over them. We have, in an open wound, two distinct and separate injuries, that of the artery, and that of the vein. The practice is to tie, if possible, both ends of the artery at the wounded part, and then, after bringing the surfaces of the external wound together, apply such moderate pressure as shall restrain the haemorrhage from the vein, without obliterating it, or injuring the circulation in the limb. It is also possible to cure this state by tying the artery higher than the wound, and then, by moderate pressure on the wound, to restrain the venous haemorrhage, and that from the retrograde arterial circula- tion ; in which case, we may have either a complete cure, or an aneurismal varix produced. To tie both the artery and the vein, I believe, should be certainly fatal, and in the present state of our knowledge, I would rather advise imme- diate amputation of the extremity. ICHAP. X. OF CERTAIN STATES CONNECTED WITH, OR PRODUCED BY WOUNDS AND INJURIES. Without entering at present into the consideration of the different kinds of wounds, I will offer a few observations on certain conditions of the system, or of part of the system, produced by them. And, first of all, I shall take notice of the shock which is attendant on wounds. This is a debility of the system or of the part, and bears an analogy to syncope and paralysis. It may appear readily explainable by the debility consequent to previous high excite- ment ; but practical observation will prove this not to be always correct. It is not proportioned to the degree of sensation, or to the rapidity with which that is produced; for a sudden and excruciating twinge of pain does not necessarily produce this state. In certain conditions, however, sudden pain pro- duces syncope, and, in all constitutions, peculiar kinds of pain, or pain affecting particular organs, is productive of depres- sion or syncope. Pain or excitement, accompanied with the sudden loss, or extreme injury, of a considerable portion of the body, is followed by greater shock than even a higher degree of excitement, without the corresponding loss. It is also very much modified by the previous state of the system. An ope- ration, for instance, performed on a person previously healthy, is productive of more alarming consequences, than where theie has been, for some time, existing an irritation, which it removes. A sudden or high excitement of a part, is not productive of shock or debility, unless that excitement, or preternatural action, subside almost as rapidly as it was produced. In that case, the system sympathizes with this rapid sinking of the part, and it is not to the previous excitement, but to that con- sequent sinking or collapse, that we immediately attribute the shock. Were there no failure in the part, there would be none in the system ; were there no sympathy, there would be no shock. Previous excitement, is indeed only the cause ofthat which more directly occasions the general collapse. When a powerful stream of electric matter is, by the discharge ol a large phial, sent through from one side of the foot to the other, the whole system is instantly enervated. But this is the consequence, not of the diffusion of the electric matter over the system, for that does not happen, but of the effect pro- duced upon the foot. From the starting and universal ener- vation, it is difficult to persuade one, that this extensive effect arises sympathetically, from the state of a tract not larger than a writing pencil. We have a farther proof of this in gunshot wound, where universal failure is produced by the state of the mere tract of the ball. It is not essential that we have a pi’e- vious excitement. It is sufficient that we have a rapid and excessive exhaustion of a part. Whether this, in the case of gun- shot wound and electric matter, be always necessarily preceded by a corresponding excitement, is not altogether so certain as some theories would make it appear to be. The part, if I might use a tropical language, may have its power imme- diately crushed or smothered, as it were, by the excessive stimulus or injuring cause ; and debility follows the applica- tion of that cause so instantaneously, that the previous stage of excitement, if it existed, could not be detected. Shock, may manifest itself most prominently by symptoms more con- nected with the nervous than the vascular system, and vice versa. In the former case, it is attended by nausea or vomit- ing, sometimes followed by diarrhoea, tremor, paralytic debi- lity, insensibility, or stupor. In the latter, the pulse is feeble, sometimes almost imperceptible. There is coldness, particu- larly of the extremities, and, divided vessels, if not of consider- able size, soon cease to bleed. Usually the effects upon the vascular system, however, are secondary, appearing through the medium of the nervous system. But the effects of shock must be modified according to the organ principally injured. A blow directed against the heart itself, or concussion of that organ, for example, is productive of oppression, insupportable palpitation, whilst the pulse is rapid and irregular, if not imperceptible. Concussion of the brain is productive of immediate paralysis and insensibility, but, ceteris paribus, the190 most immediately dangerous consequences, result from a blow on the stomach, which is often instantaneously fatal. Yet, even in this case, a more distant part may suffer, a blood- vessel, for example, being ruptured in the brain, either from the influence exerted by the stomach on the brain, or on the heart. There are two dangers to be apprehended from shock, both to the part and to the system. The first is death, from failure or from absolute loss of power. The second is the consequence of rallying, and the induction of a state of dan- gerous excitement, if not of actual inflammation. Our object ought, therefore, to be twofold. First, to prevent the sinking from going to a dangerous or fatal degree; and, secondly, to avoid, as far as the urgency of the symptoms will admit, every thing that can excite the system beyond the mere degree of rallying; we must be guided in part also by the nature ol the injury, and the tendency which it gives to a prolonga- tion of the debility. Thus, severe sprain of the ligaments causes sudden depression and sickness; but these go off sooner than if produced by injuries of the nervous system. The continuance of the period of debility, before rallying and excitation take place, is not proportioned to the inten- sity of the shock, but is considerably dependant on the natuie of the part affected. This should be remembered, both in the prognosis, and in the treatment. In many cases merely by letting the patient alone, or avoiding further causes ot sinking, he shall recover from the debility ; wheie it is moie intense and prolonged, our practice must vaiy accoiding to the degree. It is often sufficient to place the patient in a horizontal posture, and to prevent the farther loss of heat, by flannel or blankets, allaying at the same time, as far as we can, every source of local irritation, by position, dressing, &c. In more urgent cases, it may be necessary to apply heated flannel to the stomach, back or extremities, and to give small quantities of warm liquid of a mild nature, such as tea. But when we find that the system is not beginning to rally, but is rather, perhaps, sinking more, or the symptoms be, though only at intervals, severe, we must cautiously have recourse tom i more direct stimulants, such as warm brandy and water, warm wine with aromatics, musk, or tincture of opium, or solid opium. The two last are of great utility, particularly when the stomach is very irritable, or the patient is cold. Ihey allay the irritability of the stomach, and promote the evolu- tion of heat, but are not to be pushed far. Indeed, we ought never to give more of any kind of stimulus than is absolutely necessary to prevent farther sinking, or aid the system in rally- ing. For if we do, we are in great danger of inducing a state of dangerous excitement or inflammation. This is particu- larly the case, when a vital organ is affected, as, for instance, the brain. If the primary symptoms do not prove fatal, there is still ffreat hazard, from those of inflammation or excitation, O and, therefore, when we get rid of the apprehension of death from immediate failure or sinking, we must avoid all farther stimulation ; and even in those cases where stimulants have been avoided, or very sparingly used, there is a hazard of inflammation from communicated action, as I have formerly explained. When an injury has been accompanied with great and sudden pain, as, for instance, by scalding water, or tearing off an extremity, a state of stupor is very apt speedily to take place, even although no congestion of blood be produced in the brain. In such circumstances, opiates are hurtful, and assuredly are not in any way called for. Sinapisms to the scalp, purgative clysters, or purgatives, if they can be swallowed, are the proper remedies. The patient may rally from the state of shock, or collapse, but may not be restored to health. Even if the injury be not such as to cause much inflammation or excitement, the system may, in rallying, not stop at the proper point, but run on to disease, or undue excitation. But this is still more likely to happen, if the local injury be considerable, and productive of continued pain, irritation, or inflammation. Now, in this case, we have such conditions prevailing, not in a system pre- viously vigorous and sound, but in one sunk and disordered ; for although in theory it be easy to reason on pure debility and disorder, as separate from one another, yet, in practice,492 they are too often combined, and that not always in a way so distinct, as to permit of accurate division, or useful rules. We have not merely a simple excitement of a debilitated system, but we have the local excitement or irritation, acting on a system which was originally debilitated by that local injury, and, which sinking, is so identified with the local condition, or dependant on it, that no mere cordial, or single mean of supporting strength can be effectual. Nay, farther, it may even be necessary, from the effect of local and general excita- tion, to have recourse to evacuants, which shall require to be pushed to a greater or less extent, according to the degree of permanent debility produced more immediately by the accident. Friction, clysters, &c. have been advised in the state of shock, but it is doubtful how far they may not add to the evil, by the trouble they give the patient. In this secondary stage of excitement, it is highly bene- ficial to exhibit purgatives, to such an extent as careful obser- vation of their effects shall warrant. Topical and general bloodletting are also, from the cause I have mentioned, often and early required ; and, sometimes, the extent to which these evacuations must be carried, is much greater than at first sight could be expected. We must not, however, go farther than is absolutely necessary, and after these evacuations, may find it necessary to give quinine and mild cordials, with light but sufficient nourishment, still continuing attention to the bowels. To conclude, it must be quite obvious, that during the period of shock, or primary stage of debility, attendant on accidents, no operation can be performed without the almost certain consequence of fatal sinking. This kind of shock which I have been considering is of the nature of syncope or failure; but there is another state dif- ferent from it, but often complicated with it, arising from the incapacitating, destruction, or removal of a large member, or one of important sympathies. It may, for distinction, be termed, the shock of diminution, as it results from loss of sub- stance,’and is independent either of pain or concussion. More pain, for instance, may be felt in other operations than in amputation at the hip, and as extensive wounds may be493 made with comparative impunity. The mere lopping off of the member, by the immediate abridgment of the quantity of living body, the instant loss of so large a portion, which was formerly acting along with'the system, is productive of serious evil to it, from the sympathy which universally prevails. But if the nervous system become in part torpid, so as to prevent this sympathy, or to be incapable of maintaining it, the loss of a member, or, what is in one respect the same, the loss of its connexion with the system, and its failure in power, and action, and sensibility, may not have the same bad effect. Hence a sudden paralysis, not only of a whole limb, but of one side, does not necessarily subject the patient to the same hazard with the amputation of a large extremity, for the cause is of sucl^ a nature as to prevent the operation of sym- pathy. If this kind of shock, supervene immediately on the other, and particularly by the performance of amputation during the period of sinking or failure, death may follow in less than an hour ; but in this case, it is rather from the first kind of shock or failure, than the second. When time is allowed for the second to appear, it is later after the injury or amputation, and it does not destroy by direct sink- ing, as in the former case, but by a species of reaction or excitement, sometimes universal, sometimes more directed against particular organs. It is marked by rapid pulse, rest- lessness, general uneasiness, sometimes vomiting, and much depression, or there may supervene organic alteration in the liver, lungs, &c. followed by dropsical effusion or other effects, but these I shall notice presently under a different head. Opiates, purges, and bleeding may be necessary, and the excitation is sometimes communicated to the stump, or por- tion of the member left, producing swelling, tension, and engorgement of blood, attended sometimes with heat, some- times rather with coldness, of the integuments. On this subject, I must also notice that complication which may arise from intoxication ; and here I observe, that however that may influence the degree of shock, it does not in this respect affect our decision ; for, from whatever cause, or com- plication of causes, the shock is produced, we must be guided494 by the degree and evidence of rallying. But there is another circumstance, connected with intoxication, which must be left entirely to the judgment of the surgeon in his decision, namely, the possibility of keeping the patient quiet or at rest, after the operation, or whether his insensibility shall do most harm in the present state or after operation. Shock is not exactly the same with exhaustion, for it implies a rapid effect, whereas a person may be slowly exhausted. Some parts, not only from their greater sensibility and suscep- tibility, are more rapidly affected than others, but also produce a greater effect on the system. If we inject a little spirit of ammonia under the skin of a rabbit, pain is caused, followed by inflammation ; but if we inject it into the intestine by punc- ture or otherwise, the animal, owing to the greater sympathy exercised by the bowel, dies almost immediately. If the abdo- men be transfixed by a narrow bistoury, so as to pierce part of the intestine; the system instantly suffers more or less by shock, and often the hinder extremities become for a short time paralytic or enervated. Shock doubtless exhausts, but exhaustion may also succeed to, or be produced by, any long continued, high, or unnatural action. It is the cause of death, in most instances of inflammation, gangrene, fever, and disease in general. In the remainder of fatal cases, death may be said to proceed rather from an essential organ, such as the brain, heart, or lungs being rendered unfit to act. The per- son dies from the interruption of a vital action, rathei than from general exhaustion. Exhaustion merits great attention, for by contending against it, unexpected recoveries have been made. When we cannot remove the diseased action, or cure the injury, we must at least endeavour to lessen their effects, and prevent the operation of causes of exhaustion. We moderate colliquative discharges, allay pain, remove what in some respects may be adventitious irritations, or may find it necessary, even mechanically, to take away, when that can be done, the diseased part. We endeavour to support the strength, and gently stimulate the system, when that has not the effect of increasing the exhaustion, for it must not be for- gotten that stimulation, if it do not prove a mean of invigo-ration, is sure to prove a mean of farther wearing out the system. The violence of an action, or its special nature and length of duration, as well as the sympathies peculiar to the organ affected, can effect the degree of exhaustion; and, on the other hand, exhaustion renders all these more dangerous, and thus the one aids the other in destroying the system, and when we interfere, we must both attend to the action and the exhaustion, and also to the choice of our remedies, always being cautious not to propose such, as, without certainly relieving the disorder, shall in all probability increase the exhaustion. This is exemplified in the effect of large blisters in cases of great weakness. Exhaustion may also be caused by mere privation; for instance, by starvation, or loss of blood, or cold; and by these causes, if death do not take place, we may have partial loss of power, or paralysis, which sometimes remains long. Exhaustion, from these causes, is also often increased by an excited state which is produced. Connected with these states of shock and exhaustion, what- ever their degree may have been, I find it necessary to notice two terms, expressive of conditions, which require explanation. The first is the simplest, that of rallying, as it is called, which merely implies a recovery from a state of previous sinking or shock. It may consist in a mere rising or elevation, from a very low and dangerous degree, of what I have called secondary debility, or exhaustion, from the effect of a power- ful excitement, to such a state of less debility, or, if the expres- sion be preferred, of greater vigour, as shall manifest that the powers of life are not irrecoverably gone, but that the pei'son may still, if no disorder of the system take place, get on from one degiee of health and strength to a greater. It would be of incalculable importance could we understand the exact process of rallying or recovery, and the means of effecting or commanding it; for then, if we could only check the farther operation of the causa dolendi, we should retain life. But in medicine, as well as in surgery, we often lose the patient, although the disease may be subdued. A simple illustration may be found in haemorrhage. A person may lose so much blood as, although the flow be perfectly stopped, shall bring496 him into a state enabling him to live only one, two, or three hours. Another, who has lost somewhat less, shall ultimately recover. There is an extent of loss of power, in whatever way it be induced, which unfits or incapacitates the animal for living. The action, in the first instance, sinks in proportion to the loss of power caused by the haemorrhage. With less than a certain degree of action, no animal can live, and without a certain degree of power, that action can neither be performed nor sustained. But the action must be of a certain kind in order to be useful. It is not enough that there be action of any kind ; it must be of the nature peculiar to the animal, in order to keep him alive, and I have stated (page 3) that one part of the natural action involves and implies the renovation or production of energy. Whatever lessens the degree, or varies the nature of the action, must, by interfering, to that extent, with the power or process of renewal, diminish the supply. For a time, the substitution of artificial stimuli called cordials, for the natural one of blood, in the case of haemorrhage, or in those cases where there is, from other causes, a sinking of action, a similar substitution, may, as I have said at page 17, be useful. But the only sure mean of safety is the restoration of the natural action. This, from what I have said at pages 7 and 132, appears to be difficult, if not impos- sible to do directly. We must remove the farther operation of the exciting cause, and must lessen, if we cannot destroy the diseased action, and then the natural action may be restored or diffused from a part yet natural, though weak, to parts now capable of becoming natural, and of recovering. It is clear, that in order to permit of restoration, the farther operation of the cause of disease must be interrupted. But it is no less certain, that if the system have been sunk beyond a certain degree, the mere interruption of that cannot be effec- tual, nor can recovery take place. If all, and every part, were sunk to the same degree, and alike incapable of recruiting, many must perish who actually do recover. Some parts, even in morbid actions, do probably resist the specific action more than the rest, and form a focus, whence a renewal of more natural action may take place, and be diffused. In suigica tIf. | | , 497 accidents, the brain and medulla spinalis, those large and important masses of the nervous system, may resist more, and suffer less, than the rest of the system, and begin slowly to extend a salutary influence to other parts. The heart, which long retains its power, and whilst capable of being acted on by the nervous system, also in its turn acts decidedly on it, regains more power, and the two systems operating on each other in a salutary way, restore gradually the power and the action of the whole frame, unless every important part have been so sunk and subdued, or rather extinguished in its vita- lity, as to preclude rallying. In many cases, the system may rally, if merely left to itself, and no exertion, even of any individual part, be permitted, and especially if every farther cause of exhaustion, such as pain, be removed. Where, how- ever, there is no indication of rallying, these particular parts must be excited and stimulated in a cautious way, so as to induce thus a more general activity. Cordials must be given to act on the stomach, heat applied to the surface to act on the cutaneous nerves, and the general treatment proposed in shock must be resorted to. When the system does rally, it may slowly return to health, and no one organ may fall into disorder. But the restoration may be attended with in*egu- lar, as well as imperfect and improper action, and we may have not only local or general excitement, but complicated sympathies, so that the patient does not, from the first moment of rallying, proceed to greater vigour and better health, but he turns at once, or quickly, into a state of fever or disease, and this is often called, very incorrectly, reaction. It is by some considered as favourable, but it is by no means neces- sary for recovery. It merely indicates that the system is yet able to live. This leads me next to consider the term “ reaction.” If we excite or irritate the extremity of a nerve, we influence the origin of that nerve, and may thereby have an increased effect produced on its extremity, and vice versa. The doc- trine of sympathy (see pages 6 and 7) can explain this, and the effect may properly be called a reaction of the one on the v other. Whether we confine our view to a single nerve, or 2 k498 extend it to many, as, for instance, those of a great part of the surface, still the term ought strictly to be limited to this par- ticular species of sympathy, if such it can correctly be called. Some have illustrated the state of reaction by the effect of cold on the surface; and however we may differ in the explanation, I have no objection to the example, if we confine the effect to the nerves originally implicated. But if we examine into the meaning of this term, borrowed from mechanics, as it is em- ployed in surgical parlance, we find only a very vague idea affixed to it. We shall be told that a person has met with a serious injury; that at first he was cold and feeble, and alto- gether greatly sunk, but that now he is recruiting, and reac- tion is beginning to take place. Presently we hear that the reaction has become great, and the person is in a high fever. Now, whatever the degree ol reaction may be, these are not its effects. The patient, indeed, recruited or rallied in the first instance, but this is not reaction. Then he became hot, and his pulse, formerly, perhaps, scarcely perceptible, became full and frequent, but neither is this reaction. It is a constitu- tional disease, an excitement produced by the local injury, just as a blister produces fever in some people, or in no essential respect different from the constitutional effects of pleurisy, produced by exposure to cold. The term reaction ought to be confined to the effect produced on the seat of the injury, which may be considerable or trifling; but it is never, in a surgical point of view, a general or constitutional effect. Whatever constitutional or general effect may be produced by an injury, arises from a different modus opercmdi altogether; and however powerful, or even fatal the influence may be on the local injury, that influence is not reaction. It may be said that this is more a technical than a useful distinction, and that the term may be left as it is at present employed; but opinions have much influence on practice. ' Not only Dr. Cullen, but more modern writers, none of whom have excelled him, admit inflammation and fever to be the result of reaction, and therefore look on these as salutary processes. II so, we should be careful how far we discouraged them, and after operations and injuries, should rather hail a smart paroxysm499 of fever. Some do so without considering that it is in itself more or less dangerous, and that whatever the result may be, all we can legitimately say of it is, that the patient has not died of the shock, that he has had strength to rally, and if he recover, has recovered in spite of the excitation or reaction, as it is called. The treatment of reaction can only consist in mitigating, by suitable applications, the local symptoms, so as to lessen the effect on the origins of the nerves, and in using such reme- dies as shall diminish the influence exerted on these origins, such as venesection, purgatives, anodynes, &c. We thus ' reciprocally improve the condition, and moderate injurious reaction. Two other states may attend an wound or injury; acute sensation, and great irritation. Both of these I have already noticed when treating of inflammation, and, therefore, have the less to say at present. There is a property of the nervous system, which enables it to convey to the mind impressions made by external objects, or agents, which may be pleasurable, painful, or neither exactly the one or the other. This is quite distinct from the susceptibility of action. The sensa- tion ought, ceteris paribus, to be proportioned to the degree of operation of the agent. But it is certain, that the nerves are more sensible at one time than another to such operation or impression. Different circumstances may cause this increased sensibility. The mere exposure, by wound or excoriation, of the extremities of the nerves, increases the sensibility, in so far as pain is concerned. B ut farther, all preternatural excite- ment of sentient nerves, tends to render their extremities more sensible, and these again may act on the origins, so as to render the whole nerve more acute. This excitement may be pro- • duced in three ways: first, by application to the extremities themselves* producing, immediately or directly, an increased excitation. A sinapism applied to the skin, produces at first no sensation; presently the nerves are excited, and the part becomes more vascular, which also contributes to increase the sensibility. Smarting is now perceived, and presently burn- ing and severe pain may be produced. In these differentstates, the strength of the sinapism was the same, but the sen- sation increased with the increased sensibility consequent to prolonged excitation. Second, by causes acting on the ex- tremities of nerves not sentient, and which, therefore, do not produce sensation there; but by the excitement communicated to the origin of these nerves, may, as noticed at page 6th, affect the sentient nerves coming off near them, and render them more sensible; and what is true with respect to sensi- bility, is equally so as to susceptibility. Hence, irritation or excitation of branches of the sympathetic nerve, or of the par vagum, may increase both sensibility and susceptibility of action, and render ordinary stimuli productive of very uncom- fortable effects. Hence, also, we may explain the benefit to be derived, in many cases, by medicines which act on the liver, or evacuate irritating feces or worms, although these produced no sensation. Third, by excitement of the origin, or trunk of a nerve; for instance, by slight pressure, the presence of a foreign body, &c. the extremity may be exquisitely painful if slightly touched, as, for example, in tic douloureux. Parts may be exquisitely sensible in two different states, the one where the organization is apparently sound, the other where there is a tumour or diseased structure. The first, which is generally termed neuralgia, usually depends on some improper condition of the origin or trunk of the nerve. The testicle is sometimes thus affected; but still more fre- quently, the female breast is so sensible that slight pressuie produces acute and prolonged pain, and even without any such cause the part may be painful. Correcting the function of menstruation where that is faulty, regulating the action of the stomach and bowels, and using means for improving the o-eneral health, aid the cure, by lessening or removing that condition of the origin or trunk of the nerves which causes the sensibility. But often we find it necessary to apply a blister to the spine, between the shoulders, and keep it open for some time, which I have known produce a speedy and permanent cure. Anodyne applications to the part are also worth trying, but cannot be depended on. The second state is connected with a local change, generally with tumour, and501 this may be of different kinds; but whatever its organization may be, tins prominent condition may warrant our bestowing on it the attributive appellation of a sensitive tumour. It was once supposed that the sensibility depended on some of the fibrillae of a nerve being involved in the tumour, and excited by it: this was thought to be the more probable, from such tumour being generally quite subcutaneous, and not very large. But this has not been proved by dissection. It is, however, rendered not unlikely, by finding that excision of the tumour proves a permanent cure, which is not the case in neuralgia depending on the condition of the origin or trunk of the nerve. If the means usually employed for improving the health in general, and topical anodynes, do not relieve the pain, the excision of the tumour is the only remaining re- source we have. There is this difference between a neuralgia dependant on the state of the origin of the nerve, and one connected with the condition of the extremity, that, in the former, division of the trunk, or excision of the part, does no permanent good, whilst, in the latter, it is effectual, if per- formed before the origin and trunk be brought into a state of disease. ^ Mere pain may produce inflammation, but it generally requires the conjunction of some other cause. A nerve may be very painful, and yet no inflammation may take place; and an incision made in the pained part is not apt to inflame, because the nervous branches being divided, sensation is for the time lost. But as a general occurrence, I would say, that all wounds which are painful, are in danger of inflaming, and therefore pain should be assuaged. Pain is especially danger- ous when it depends on the state or complication of the wound, or injury itself, for the pain, or sensibility, and condition, giving rise to it, reciprocally influence each other. There is, however, a limitation to the rule, in so far as certain new organizations are concerned; for some of these bear much pain without injury to themselves, although the system may suffer much, as we see in cancer, &c. In suppurating sores, on the other hand, high sensibility, and great pain, almost always produce sloughing, or death of the part; all5 02 wounds which are painful, or likely to inflame, extensive wounds, or smaller wounds of parts more delicate, if attended with much pain, have a dangerous effect on the constitution, which, in its turn, reacts on the wound; we should, therefore remove pain as soon as we can; great pain exhausts the system, and if the pained part be very important, or very extensive, and especially if the pain have been suddenly pro- duced by a violent cause, the sensorium may be so affected as to cause stupor, and the high sensibility may end in want of percep- tion. In such circumstances, we may endeavour to produce a salutary effect on the origins of the nerves by blisters applied over them, or act on them through the medium of the bowels. Great sensibility, or excessive pain attendant on an injury, has, as we have seen, two effects. First, it exhausts both the system and the part; and, secondly, it acts as an exciting cause of inflammation, a disease apt enough to take place from the injury itself. A highly sensible and painful state may produce a resemblance to inflammation, and yet the condition may not be actually inflammatory, but it is apt soon to end in this. It may accelerate the circulation, and affect the blood, render- ing it buffy. Pain of deep parts, not at first inflammatory, may produce heat and redness of the superjacent skin, with or without tenderness. It may, on the other hand, be attended with a sensation of cold. There are three means of relief, first, removing the state productive of pain, that is, the exciting cause; for example, by reducing a dislocation, removing a particle of sand from the eye, or foreign substances from a wound, closing it at the same time accurately, and placing the member in such a position as shall remove tension, and keep it easy. Second, lessening the sensibility and perceptibility by a full dose of opium. A third, but more slow mode, founded on the principle noticed in the second way in which sympathy might be increased, is to diminish susceptibility and sensibility, without stupefaction, by removing such causes as may be rendering the system preternaturally sensible, and are placing it in a condition liable to be acted on, or exasperated, by the most trifling causes. Of this kind are a certain degree of fever, the action of external heat, a loaded state of the508 stomach, irritating faeces, or costiveness, too much blood, &c. In severe, or very painful wounds, and accidents, we must have immediate recourse to the two first means, and afterwards call in the assistance of the third, which would be too slow to be trusted to alone. It ought to be an axiom in surgery, that pain is injurious when it goes to an excessive degree, whether it fol- low an accidental injury, or an operation, and, therefore, it must at all hazards be controlled. The exact degree of pain which may be termed excessive, must vary according to the state of the patient, the nature of the wound, and the part affected. No patient is to be allowed to complain much, if we can by any moderate quantity of opium relieve him. But if we have any reason to suppose that sensibility is increased by the state of the bowels, a purgative must precede the opiate, and be afterwards alternated with it. If the action of the vas- cular system seem rather to be the cause, venesection must take the lead, and be followed by the laxative and opiates. In entering on the consideration of irritation, it will be necessary, first, to affix a meaning to the term, and also to that of irritability. The parent of all the family is the Latin word ira, and from this we have have both irritatio and irrita- bilis. We have also irritamen, or irritamentum, the stimulus to irritation. But we have no substantive in that lancfuao-e lor the principle of irritability, this being a word of modern date. When attention came to be paid to the nature of the animal economy, inquiry was made, how, and why, a muscle contracted, and the principle by which it was supposed to do so, was called irritability. Glisson evidently makes this syno- nymous with vitality, and includes in its operations not only contractility and sensibility, but also sympathy. “ Sunt dif- ferentiae quidam irritabilitatis hie quosque memoranda?, quae etsi ad causas irritantes referri quaeeant, magis tamen ipsam irritabilitatis constitutionem, quam differentias causarum ejus- dem, sapiunt.” Haller afterwards entered more fully into the subject, and divided the effects of vitality into two great classes, irritability and sensibility, which he considered as principles independent of each other. So far as the Hallerian doctrine goes, irritability is synonymous with contractility,5 04 and means ihe power of shrinking or contracting by the appli- cation of a stimulus; and therefore the term, looking to etymo- logy, "is not very well applied figuratively, for the pheno- mena would rather indicate fear than resentment. Mr. Hunter gives no precise definition of irritability as a principle, but apparently confining himself to the state of irritability, says, it is “ overaction to the strength of the part,” that is, if the words have any meaning, it is action beyond the power of the part to perform and sustain; and speaking of an irritable habit, he says, it is “ an increased disposition to act, without the power to act with,” which, setting aside all verbal criticism and discus- sion as to phraseology» evidently confounds an irritable with a very susceptible habit, and makes the state of irritation to be synonymous with that of too high excitement. He, and along with him, more modern authors, have gone back to the doc- trine of Glisson, and make irritability and susceptibility syno- nymous terms, and irritation to consist in that state which is produced by an extraordinary excitement of the principle of irritability. That is, one and all of them would make it include the effects of dancing, scalding, drunkenness, and every species of excitation or stimulation. Hallei, "e have seen, made irritability and contractility synonymous; but if we confine ourselves to the legitimate meaning, we shall, as it is quite a trope, or figure of speech, be guided by the figuia- tive signification. To instate, means not merely to excite to anger, but also to vex or tease, and the effect pioduced on the mind may not be anger, but rather a state of teasing exas- peration or fretfulness. A state of bodily irritation is not a mere state of stimulation, for that may be very agreeable, but, if I may indulge in figurative language, a fretting, teasing, vexatious condition, a disagreeable, perhaps harassing modifi- cation of excitement, which, although it may sometimes be produced by a peculiarity of local pain, does not itself consist in pain, more than fretting or irritation of the mind consists in fury, and, least of all, can it be confounded with pleasurable excitement. If this be irritation of body, then an irritable habit, which we so often hear of, is not one merely peculiarly susceptible of all stimuli, or one which may simply be called505 very excitable, but it is a system prone, from very slight causes, to be thrown into a state of teasing excitement. There may be excitement without sensation, as we see in many disorders, that is, without a distinct perception ot the excitation. There may be contraction without sensation, but there can scarcely be irritation without sensation, for the very nature of that species of excitation is teasing. There may, indeed, be no definite sensation, but there must be feeling- more or less disagreeable; all pain is not that of irrita- tion. There may be a pain of the eye different from the irri- tating feeling produced by a small particle of sand, or that irritation may be also combined with actual pain. As irrita- tion is accompanied with a certain sensation, it must be more exhausting than excitement without sensation, and be also more wearing out than a moderate degree of simple pain. Irritation, like excitation, must also produce progressively increasing injury, as the power is exhausted, and as new parts may be brought to suffer. The essential character of irritation, as it affects the general system, is the feeling of more or less unhappiness, or indis- cribable discomfort, which is often productive of restlessness, inability to fix the mind on one pursuit, disturbed sleep and fretfulness of temper. Other phenomena sogn attend, pro- duced either by the influence of the local injury, or as effects of the general irritation on particular organs, and classes of nerves. We very often have a more frequent action of the heart, and occasionally many of the symptoms of fever, and this is apt to assume the remittent type, and resemble hectic. Particular organs suffer, as, for instance, the stomach. We may have sickness, or want of appetite, thirst, furred tongue; or the liver is affected, and the biliary secretion increased or diminished. There may, in one instance, be constipation, in another, obstinate diarrhoea. There may be headach, or even more serious derangement of the nervous system, leading to spasms, &c. When any one organ is brought to suffer much, either in consequence of the effect of the general con- dition on it, or of some special sympathy with the part ori- ginally injured or irritated, it may exert an influence on other506 organs, and an extensive train of sympathies may be produced. We cannot, however, hold all these effects which I have alluded to, as constituting the state of irritation. They follow from it, but are not, properly speaking, peculiar to it, for they are met with in other species of excitation and increased sen- sation, and their degree and nature are much modified in par- ticular cases by the part of the medulla spinalis, or oblongata, specially connected with the nerves of the organ affected, and also by peculiarity of constitution. When the part originally irritated is peculiarly delicate, there may, very soon after the feeling of general irritation, in the strict sense, or almost as early as it, be a febrile attack. This, in susceptible people, may be the effect of a grain of sand in the eye. A stricture in the urethra, if excited by any cause, or irritated by a bougie, sometimes produces, from sympathy with the stomach, sickness and faintness, sometimes general irritation, followed by different local sympathies, sometimes a violent attack of fever, like an ague fit. But only some of these effects consti- tute irritation, though produced by it, or combined with it. The irritation of worms in the bowels, or offensive and indur- ated stools, in like manner, may cause a prolonged fever. Irritation may take place very early from wounds or acci- dents, supervening almost immediately on their infliction. It mav also be delayed till the period of suppuration. In either case, it is dependant on some cause, which, for the time, pre- vents the commencement, or the progress, of a healing process. No healing, or, if the expression be con'ect, healthy wound, is attended with irritation. When there is teasing sensation, scarcely amounting to actual pain, then we have irritation ; but some part of the wound is not adhering and healing promptly. Irritation is not indeed an indication of an incur- able state, but only that the part is not healing. We never find a healthy or granulating ulcer irritable; but suppurating sores are frequently so. Different causes may produce irritation. First, the pre- sence of a foreign body, which occasions more or less, accord- ing to its size, asperity, and qualities, as well as the irritabi- lity of the part acted on. A grain of sand in the eye, a507 musket ball or bit of cloth in an wound, a splinter of bone, or a dead cartilage, may all produce direct irritation. Second, a sensible state of parts capable of influencing the system may produce irritation. Hence some internal tumours, such as those of deep-seated glands, or piles, or diseased ovarium, &c. may produce general irritation. Third, it may be caused by part of an wound remaining without assuming any healing process, especially when accompanied with a certain degree of sensa- tion. There are some textures which continue the suppu- rative action long, and with difficulty assume that of granu- latory. Hence irritation is apt to follow from injuries of bones, but especially of cartilages, tendons, and capsules. Fourth, certain conditions, connected with the peculiar way in which the injury has been inflicted, or with the state of divided nerves, or with the mode of treatment, occasion, for a time, irritation. These conditions and modes, occur previous to the appearance of irritation, and may last after it has begun. They are compatible with adhesion or granulation. Irrita- tion is apt to succeed extensive wounds, although these may be doing well, and still continue to do so, unless the irritation affect them. When many stitches are required, or when an wound is lacerated or bruised, irritation is likely to be pro- duced. When irritation manifests itself, not so much from the positive or absolute degree of the cause, as from preternatural irritability of the habit, that can only be lessened, when it is not dependant on the original constitution of the person, by, first, such means as diminish undue susceptibility and morbid sensibility; for although these states do not constitute irrita- bility, yet they contribute to its production. This plan is to be attempted by the removal of those adventitious excitements I have alluded to, in speaking of sensibility, such as indu- rated or offensive fasces, bile, local disease, or derangement of function, &c. Second, avoiding sucb causes as may directly increase these conditions, such as positive stimulants, too much or indigestable food, &c., or if there be too much blood, or a tendency to synocha, detracting blood. Third, such means as can improve the general health and strength, such as mode-,508 rate exercise or travelling, country air, tonic medicines, &c. Fourth, those means which sooth or lull the nervous system, such as the prudent use of opiates. Irritation itself can only be effectually removed by removing or destroying the cause, which it is not always in our power to do. When we cannot get rid of the cause, we must not only attend to the means of lessening irritability, but try, as far as we can, to lessen irritation of the part, by promoting adhesion of an wound, allaying that smarting and uncomfortable sensa- tion which attends certain degrees and species of inflammation, by fomentations, poultices, posture, soothing dressings, and letting out pus, removing distention, extracting foreign bodies, &c. Generally speaking, we use every mean for restoring the injured part to a state of health, and promoting recovery. We assist this plan by conjoining, if necessary, those medi- cines which lessen sensibility or perception, such as opiates, which are peculiarly useful when there is pain. If all these fail, then, if the situation of the part permit, it must be removed as incurable. I have described certain states as resulting from wounds and injuries, and, of course, from regular operations, but it is not to be supposed that these are always to be met with pure and uncombined ; for not only may they come to be mixed up with one another, so as to make it difficult to say which predominates, but also inflammation and its consequences may be superadded, and increase greatly the perplexity of the case, both as to its precise character and correct mode of treatment. We have seen that there are different states of great danger that may attend an wound; and which, if allowed to con- tinue, or, if impossible to be removed, may prove fatal. A state of excessive pain, or sensibility, if it cannot be con- trolled, must either prove destructive, or call for the removal of the parts. A state of extreme irritation is attended with the same consequences, but even where neither of these states exists, there is another alike dangerous, perhaps still more hopeless, from the nature of the wound itself. A complica- tion of shattered bones and divided arteries, and lacerated integuments, setting aside all consideration arising from im-509 mediate inflammation or irritation, constitutes a case which we at once declare to be incurable. And, therefore, we, with as little hesitation, would say, amputation must, as the only chance, be performed. But there is another attendant on injuries which has been noticed, which may suspend, or alto- gether preclude the performance of this operation. If a limb be crushed, and completely disorganized from the middle of the thigh downward, and its vitality altogether or almost ex- tinguished, the limb, it will be said, is lost. It is virtually amputated; for it is already cut off from all connexion with the system, and we can have no hesitation, in making a regular and clean amputation of it. But, before we proceed to this hasty conclusion, we must remember, that such a destruction has not been accomplished, without a tei'rible shock to the system, and the whole frame is brought into that sunk and debilitated state, which, so far from being able to bear additional injury, is scarcely able to rally from that which has already been inflicted. In cases, then, of great shock and sinking, no operation can be performed, without fear of completely overpowering the system, and destroying- all hope of recovery. Shall we then, with a shattered limb, and a mangled, almost lifeless, extremity, leave the patient without one effort to save or place him in a way of recovery ? Assuredly not, if, by amputation, we can do him good. But in our anxiety to avoid one evil we must not run upon an- other, and go through all the parade of an operation, and inflict all its additional pain, and its corresponding exhaus- tion, in a case scarcely capable of bearing up under what has already taken place, where we have no appearance of rallying, and every symptom of approaching dissolution. Shall we, under these circumstances, disturb the few remain- ing moments of life, and torment him whom we cannot cure? If the patient cannot rally from the pure effects of shock, caused by the accident, much less can he sustain the new injury inflicted by the surgeon. We must wait for recruiting, before we take the knife; but not beyond that. He who operates during the period of immediate and great debility, and he who waits until that have passed off, and inflammatory510 action have begun, are alike injudicious. All our best old writers, are in favour of instant, immediate, amputation in cases essentially requiring it. Wiseman, Le Dran, Ranby, See., in military practice, advised the operation to be per- formed, if possible, on the field. In civil practice, Mr. Pott was an advocate for immediate operation. But this is not to be taken in its extreme sense, although some have actually gone so far as to think it impossible to amputate too speedily after the injury. Immediate amputation, is not, by reflecting surgeons, understood to mean the performance of the opera- tion as soon as the instruments can be got ready; but is con- sidered in opposition to the plan of delaying, not only till reaction, as it has been called, had been fairly established, but inflammation had begun and subsided, and suppuration be produced. Faure, and Leconte, were advocates for delayed amputation, and asserted that their immediate amputations proved fatal. But it was observed by Boucher that they did not operate soon enough. They delayed till the inflamma- tory stage had commenced, and thus attributed to the plan, that which was produced by their own inattention to prin- ciples. He who waits thus long, must wait still longer, and delay till the inflammation have subsided. If 24 hours elapse, it is too late to operate till inflammation subside. When I say decidedly, that we must delay till the patient begin to recruit, I as firmly maintain, that we axe not to delay beyond this. The time required for rallying, must vary according to the effect on the constitution. It may be an hour, or it may be six hours, but whenever we find the tremor subsiding, the countenance becoming more animated, or natural, the pulse steady, and the stomach ceasing to reject its contents, we may consider the operation as warrant- able. In injuries attended with great shock, the patient sometimes feels no pain till he begin to rally,’and in this case, the commencement of sensation ought to be the signal for operation. We must remember that there is a diffei'ence arising from the shock or tremor of a gunshot wound, and that arising from the more extensive laceration produced by machinery or explosions, with shattered bones, or compound511 dislocations, and peeling oft’ of large flaps of skin, which cannot be done without more injury to the system, and addi- tional exhaustion from the effects of sensation. It is one thing to perform an operation at a time when it is warrantable, in so far as rallying from the shock of failure is concerned, but quite another thing to avoid the effect of what I have called the shock of diminution. The man may recover from the immediate effects both of the shock and of the operation, and do well for some hours, or days, and yet die from the other kind of shock. But this is no objection to the operation, without which he could have had no chance at all. I shall put yet another case. We have an arm or a leg shot off, and a ragged extremity left, or the limb is attached only by shreds or portions; now here is a plain case, it may be said, for amputation, and yet it may not be so. It is as un- warrantable to operate here, prematurely, as in a case of smaller injury. The operation is exactly the same in both, even to the very division of a fibre. But, there is another operation, of a temporary or intermediate nature, safe and advantageous. Cut through the mangled band, or shred, which still holds the limb, and then, when the patient recruits, perform a regular amputation. The first operation, if such it can be called, inflicts no injury, produces no exhaustion, but is rather a source of comfort. When an injury is accompanied with great sensation, or irritation, the case is more clear. These of themselves must wear out, and if they cannot be counteracted, must not only warrant but demand amputation, when otherwise it would not be essentially requisite. Much attention is to be paid, in our deliberations, to the state of the sensation and its elFects, and much depends also on the part to be amputated; the arm is less dangerous than the leg, and the leg than the thigh. lo conclude, a patient is not to be operated on, merely because he shall certainly die, although amputation be not performed. We must be able to say, he shall die, unless he be operated upon, or that there is good ground to hope for success. We see a local injury so severe, that it is evident, *512 the parts cannot assume or carry on those actions, which are necessary for their preservation and recovery, nor could the constitution exist under the effect of these actions. In this case, if amputation cannot be permitted, nothing can be hoped for; and this conviction, with a strong desire to free the system from a mortal evil, makes the surgeon more desir- ous to perform it, than a careful and dispassionate considera- tion of present debility, and future danger, can justify; and, from the best of motives, to rush upon a useless and fatal operation. Fever may follow an wound, without being dependant on inflammation, or proportioned to it; but merely arising from excitation of the origins of those nerves, influencing the action of the heart, and the secretion of heat. We have seen that fever is not a simple condition or disease, but is produced by the excitement communicated to the origins of nerves, and varies, according to the variations in the exciting cause. In- flammatory fever having been already considered, I shall chiefly make a few remarks on traumatic fever, which may neither be a state of mere irritation, or excitation, nor of actual synocha, but a middle condition. The effect of wounds, or of cuta- neous irritation on the chylopoietic viscera on the one hand, and of these upon wounds and local diseases on the other, has been long remarked. It is much to be questioned if these influences be direct, and be not rather exercised on the nerves supplying both parts. An external injury, for instance, affects, through the medium of its nerves, the state of the spinal chord, which gives off these nerves, and this again comes to influence the other nerves given off from it, or from the medulla oblongata which sympathizes with it, to distant organs, which thus become not only affected in their actions, but, by these affections, are capable of reacting on the common origin of the nerves, and thus on the external injury, produc- ing& changes on it. This opinion, which applies to an influ- ence commencing in the wound, is still more applicable to one arising, at first, from irritation of the stomach or bowels, by irregularities of diet, &c. In whatever way it originates, the ultimate effect is the same, and in both we must use means 4513 to rectify the chylopoietic organs ; the only difference being, that when the evil began in them and not in the wound, the means, if they prove at all effectual, may do so more speedily. Traumatic fever puts on different appearances, accord- ing to the effects produced on different parts of the cere- bellum, medulla oblongata, and spinal chord. In some cases an excitement is produced in one part, communicating a similar state to the rest of the system. In other cases we find that the action is very irregular and even variable. The pulse at one time is extremely quick, and soon again is pre- ternaturally slow. The heat is increased, and then, at least, in certain parts, diminished, the face flushed and then pale : the skin dry, and then wet; the eye always troubled. This state invariably marks an affection of the spinal chord, pro- duced either by causes acting directly on it, such as an im- mediate injury; or indirectly, such as a distant injury. In all these cases, there is much lassitude, and when the spinal chord is particularly affected, there is paralytic debility. In most instances the tongue from the first is furred, or very soon be- comes so ; there is nausea, sometimes a bilious vomiting, and the stools are altered. Cold and shivering may arise in the case of an wound, from the mere alteration, or changes necessarily produced in the condition of the part, more especially, if it be a sensible or vital organ. It is placed in new circumstances, in a condi- tion altogether different from its natural state. Whatever affects the nervous system suddenly and violently, either in regard to sensation or as shock, is likely to produce cold; hence severe burns are instantly followed by chilness. Par- ticular conditions of the stomach produce coldness, and these may indirectly be signals of external injury. Shivering may be followed by heat, or it may not; but it generally is. When it occurs after a wound or operation, it is always a suspicious circumstance: yet it is no certain harbinger of danger, nor unequivocal indication of the accession of inflammation, for it may arise from the mere alteration of the condition of the injured part. It demands great attention; and if local pain and other symptoms indicate inflammation, no time is 2 L /514 to be lost in allaying that. When it is merely from a nervous affection, it usually occurs almost immediately; and is attended with a variable state of the pulse, which sometimes is remarkably small as well as frequent, but it may be slow and scarcely to be felt. An opiate alone, or with a diaphoretic, with the addition of a little warm liquid, will allay it. If it arise from a disordered state of the stomach, or be productive of sickness, spontaneous vomiting often ends the alarm. If through that of the bowels, purges are the remedies. The kind of irritative fever we are now considering is never to be overlooked, but in a constitution previously healthy, and where the wound is not particularly severe, it generally, if proper treatment be pursued, passes off without bad conse- quences. It is seldom, on this account alone, necessary to have recourse to blood-letting. It is generally sufficient to regulate the diet, and administer purgatives, at the same time that we give the requisite attention to the state of the wound. But in a constitution injured by intemperance, or a highly disordered condition, and action of the organs of digestion, or other causes, this state is of the highest importance, as it reacts so on the wound, as to induce erysipelatous, or gangrenous inflammation. This dangerous event, is not merely to be apprehended in compound fractures, or lacerations of the extremities, but may arise from even a slight abrasion of the skin. This requires the exhibition regularly of miid laxatives, with the occasional use, if there be much bile, of a gentle mercurial purge. Bark, and other tonics, should then be employed, assisted by nourishing, but easily digestible diet, sometimes a moderate proportion of wine. Inflammatory fever having been already considered, I at present merely remark, that when it arises from wounds of external parts, and injuries of the extremities, it is seldom necessary to use the lancet freely. Let it, when required, be early employed, but not rashly repeated, especially in those cases where it is evident that suppuration, or any other con- dition, must take place, which it will require an effort to sus- tain. If, for instance, in a compound fracture, we should find it necessary to bleed, and do so to any extent beyond515 that absolutely required to moderate the exciting action, and prevent inflammation from running high, and mortification from taking place, the patient is apt to sink. In mil cases of tins fever, we do not bleed at all, hut trust to laxatives and spare diet. In more severe degrees, we blee once, and seldom find it necessary to repeat the evacuation, liut the case is far otherwise in injuries of vital organs or delicate parts; for then, if we do not bleed early and freely, we lose the patient. Yet, even in these cases, we may push the lancet too far; and after having done all that can piudently be one to mitigate or check the disease, we may, by one other bleed- ing, extinguish the power of recovery. We may also, by bleeding frequently, but not efficiently, conveit a most va u able remedy into the mean of sinking him whom it might have saved. Another important consequence of wound, is the induction of disease in other parts. I need not say that the oiiginal injury or accident may, at the moment of its infliction, have affected not merely the part which bears its mark, but also some distant part, the effects on which either did not at first appear, or, from the greater importance of the chief wound, were not attended to. The constitutional or sympathetic effects produced by the principal wound, may cause the pait con- comitantly injured to run into disease, although, without this influence, it should easily have returned to health. But this is not what I mean to allude to at present. The mere shock of diminution, by deranging the whole previous sympathies of the system, is capable, without any very evident additional cause, to occasion disorder and disease of other distant organs, which is generally of the excited or overacting kind. It seems to do so through the medium of the connexion of nerves with one another at their origin. The loss of an extremity cannot be altogether incapable of influencing the origin of the nerves which supplied it; and thus the medulla spinalis is brought into a state of increased excitement, and it again can, and we know readily does, act on the medulla oblongata, we may thus, without doing violence to the rules of physiology, account for a varied train of effects, arising sometimes sooner, some-times later, sometimes with, sometimes without any irritation ot the wound or stump. We may have depressing sickness and vomiting, from affection of the nerves of the stomach, or obstinate hiccup, or swelling of the liver, or affection of the lungs, or dropsy, or phlegmonous, or gangrenous erysipelas of other parts of the body, or tetanus itself. But it is not alone in great and extensive injuries, or after amputation of large extremities, that these changes take place; for after a very slight injury, slight in its extent, and apparently so in its local effects, the very same principle may operate, and serious disease be induced in other organs. At page 107, I have given my opinion as to the possibility of inflammation being produced in a part, not by causes acting directly on that part, but on the origin of the nerves going to it; and I now distinctly repeat, that what may be done by causes applied to, and acting directly on these origins, may also be effected by the state of the extremities of wounded nerves, or those going to inflamed parts, and then the influence extending to other portions of the medulla, may give rise to disease in remote parts, as has been noticed at pages 6 and 9. It is wor- thy of remark, and confirms the doctrine, that when in this way remote parts become diseased, they have very rapidly a state induced more or less allied to that of the local condi- tion which gave rise to it. If that condition be merely inflammatory, the remote inflammation is speedily established, and that whether it appear in a viscus, or on the surface as erysipelas, boils, efflox-escence, &c. If, on the other hand, the condition of the exciting organ or injured part be suppu- rative, we have very rapidly, and with little previous inflam- mation, perhaps with none, suppuration established in the remote part, or effusion of serous fluid. In some instances, tolei’ably lai’ge collectioxxs of pus have been found, particu- lai'ly in the liver. In others smallei-, and perhaps numerous collections in, or on a viscus, somewhat like a mixture of fibrin and pus. The symptoms may not have been suffi- ciently acute to call the attention until near the time of death. I need scarcely add, that predisposition, or the application of slisrht excitinsr causes under these circumstances, shall assist517 the induction of disease. Some have supposed that plethora, or a greater determination of blood to the lungs, cause disease there after the removal of a limb. But 1 it lea y existed, it ought rather to cause haemoptysis, or apoplexy, or haemorrhage from the stump, if not yet healed. Others may explain the induction of pulmonic disease, by supposing that the veins have become inflamed, and I willingly admit t le explanation in several cases, but not in all. These collections do not always occasion such effects as to be readily discovered before death, and sometimes aie only discovered by dissection. They seem to be produced with less pain, in many instances, than those of equal extent aris- ing from other causes. Decided or recent maiks may not appear, or receive attention, till very near the time of death, perhaps not even then. But when the symptoms are distinct, they are those which would mark similar affections of the organ, induced by any other cause. It is also possible foi the original disease or injury to be removed, and the supei- induced one to continue, and carry off the patient by the hectic attending it. Nor is it impossible that some cases of phthisis pulmonalis originate from the effects of distant dis- order, which may be cured before the characteristic, 01 even early marks of consumption appear, and which, therefore, may not be considered in its true light as a cause. Many females may date this pulmonary symptom from an attaciv of some uterine disease, or mammary abscess, &c. The treatment of these affections must be conducted on the same principles as if they had been original diseases. In the case we have just been considering, the original disease may suffer no abatement, but, on the contrary, be rather aggravated. But it sometimes happens that the action is transferred to another organ, and this is called metastasis. This is more apt to take place in certain diseases than in others ; for example, in rheumatism, gout, and erysipelas. In all, it is most probably by sympathy of nerves, and the assump- tion by one set of those actions which have been performing by another. But this may be particularly the case in differ- ent portions of nerves supplying the same texture, as skin,518 muscular fibre, &c. The same kind of action which existed in the part originally diseased, may be transferred to a distant part. Thus it appears, on good evidence, that pus has been removed from an abscess by absorption. The purulent action has ceased there, and appeared in another place. It was ima- gined that the identical pus absorbed was deposited there : a supposition which does not merit to be refuted, for it is the action we are to look to, and not the matter or substance employed. This opinion, however, I will not apply to pus absorbed, and discharged by urine. Another consequence of wounds is the production of spas- modic affections, arising, like some of the former, from excite- ment or irritation of the origin of the nerves. Of this kind is singultus, which is often a very obstinate, and even fatal affection. It exhausts and wears out the patient. But this is not all; for as it is produced by the state of the origin of the phrenic nerve, the same cause which produces that also causes directly, or sympathetically, changes in the neighbour- ing part. The pulse is either rapid, or irregular and inter- mittent, and the patient dies either in a stupor, or is carried off in a convulsion. The treatment in this affection is, first of all, to allay or remove every perceptible cause of irritation about the wound, and, at the same time, to administer pur- gatives. If the state of the pulse indicate it, the patient should be cupped in the neck, and a blister should be applied there whether we cup or not. Antispasmodics, such as musk alone, or with carbonate of ammonia, or asther, or powerful doses of opium, have been recommended, but they are only sub- sidiary to the former means ; and, indeed, he who escapes by any treatment, however active, does more than may be calcu- lated upon. Amputation I have never known prove successful. Another still more formidable consequence of the state alluded to, is tetanus. A disease which has its name derived from the Greek verb signifying to stretch. This is sub- divided into the opisthotonous, in which the body is bent back, which is the most frequent kind. The emprosthotonous, in which the body is bent forward; and the pleurosthotonous, in which it is drawn to one side. These are usually accom-519 panied, and very often preceded by lock-jaw, or trismus, de- rived from the word signifying to gnash. ietanus is farther divided, and with propriety, into acute and chronic; for the latter is more tractable than the former. It may come on rapidly, indeed, almost immediately after an injury very ' slight, and prove fatal in less than half an hour. But this is rare, for it is usually some hours, or even a day or two aftei the infliction of the injury, before it begins. It is often a week. But there are few, if any, instances of its attacking after the completion of the third week. The acute form proves fatal often on the second day, and seldom continues beyond the eighth. The chronic has proved fatal so late as the twen- tieth. It is most frequent in warm climates, particularly if the patient have been exposed to the cold night air. But it is met with in every part of the world, and too many instances have occurred in Britain. Boys, and adult males, aie moie liable to it than females. And the only instances of recoveiy that I have myself met with, have been amongst females. Tetanus both appears and proceeds under different circum- stances. It is sometimes preceded by restlessness, and an alteration in the appearance of the wound, which becomes unhealthy, and either florid, dry, or inflamed, or yields a serous discharge. It is also painful, particularly on exposure to the air. Or the whole limb becomes painful, more espe- cially in the course of the nerves. In other instances, the wound seems to be healing, and the cure is not suspended by the progress of the disease. In the majority of cases, how- ever, the wound is unhealthy. The proper symptoms of the disease begin by stiffness about the jaw, with some difficulty of opening and shutting the mouth, which renders chewing laborious. Next, stiffness is felt in the extensor muscles of the neck, and sometimes an impediment in the action of those of deglutition, productive of reluctance to swallowing of liquids, amounting almost to hydrophobia. Then pain, often severe, is felt at the bottom of the sternum, darting towards the spine, accompanied with a sensation as if the chest were drawn nearer to the back. This is followed speedily by rigid contraction of all the extensors of the spine, whilst the520 whole body becomes convulsed. The body is bent back; the extremities are rigid or contracted; thejawis strongly clenched; the muscles of the face convulsed; the eyes fixed; the muscles of respiration participate in the spasm, so that if it last long, the patient may die from interruption of breathing. The abdominal muscles become hard, and are sometimes drawn backwards. During this paroxysm, the pulse becomes frequent and irregular; the respiration either hurried or laborious, if not suspended. After a short time the paroxysm abates, but the muscles of the back and neck seldom are entirely relaxed. The levators of the jaw usually remain per- manently contracted. There is either no sleep, or it is short and very disturbed. The eye is dull and watei’y. The pulse is sometimes natural in the intervals of the paroxysms, but accelerated during the convulsion. In other instances it is permanently frequent, and, cceteris paribus, the danger is proportioned to the frequency of the pulse. The mind remains sound to the last, and the patient usually expires in a convulsion, though sometimes he seems to sink from mere exhaustion. The number of paroxysms in a given time varies in different instances. In mild cases, the jaw first becomes stiff and more or less rigid, then the contracting or drawing sensation, already mentioned, about the chest or diaphragm, is felt. The trunk is repeatedly twitched back- ward. The sleep is most distressing, and often has the effect of aggravating the disease. The pulse is frequent, and the body covered with perspiration. In such cases there may be a distinct spasm every quarter of an hour, though not to a very severe degree. In most instances the tongue is moist, and, with scarcely any exception, the bowels are costive. Indeed, some seem disposed to ascribe tetanus to the state of the bowels, and I have certainly seen slight cases arise from disorder of the bowels alone. Some have described a peculiar effervescence of the stools. Others have found in the bowels, on dissection, a yellow offensive matter. But I have never been able to ascertain that there is any appearance in the stools peculiar to tetanus. Both the torpor of the bowels, and any change in the state of the stools, may as probably be conjoint,521 effects of the condition of the nervous system, as direct causes. But they may react, and prove contributive to the continu- ance and increase of tetanus. In some dissections, marks of inflammation have been observed in the stomach and bowels; in others, the heart, arteries, and veins, have exhibited marks ol inflammation. But as these appearances are not invariably met with, and have, in innumerable instances, existed without tetanus, we must consider them rather as effects than causes. In several instances, where the spine has been examined, the sheath of the medulla has been found inflamed, with effusion, either of blood or of serum; Dr. Reid says, of the former in acute, and the latter in more chronic cases. But we have not yet a sufficient number of accurate dissections to establish this point. There can, however, be little doubt, that the state of the medulla spinalis is intimately connected with the produc- tion of tetanus. The most ancient practitioners, from the rigidity of the neck, directed their attention to the state of the spine. Celsus, for example, directs friction to be kept up night and day, with some intermission, however, on the spine. If there were much pain, he advised blood to be abstracted from the neck by cupping; or sinapisms or the cautery were to be applied. Hildanus, in noticing a case of convulsions from injury of the temporal muscle, says, they took place “ propter materiam ad spinam delapsam.” We know well, also, that tetanic convulsions are produceable by irritating the medulla spinalis of animals. This view of the disease however, has not yet led to any efficient mode of treatment. For neither the cupping recommended by Celsus, nor vene- section, nor blisters applied to the spine, can be in any degree relied on. Four different plans of treatment require consideration. First, to divide, the nerves supposed to be injured, or, where an extremity has been wounded, to perform amputation. Second, to destroy the injured extremities of the nerves by the application of the cautery. Third, to change the action of the surface, and excite a free discharge by means of irritating substances. Fourth, to use general remedies. First, It was long supposed, and indeed countenanced byHippocrates, that wounds of the temporal muscle were pecu- liarly apt to produce convulsions; and notwithstanding the aphorism, that convulsions arising from wounds were mortal, attempts were made to avoid the fatal result by free division of the parts. It is not easy to say who first proposed ampu- tation as a cure, which certainly must be more effectual than any more partial division. Many have adopted this proposal, and Larrey speaks strongly in its favour. But like most other infallible remedies, it has not stood the test of experience; and we learn from Sir James M'Gregor, that even Larrey, its warmest supporter, had his confidence in it diminished, and admitted, that after the battle of Dresden, the deaths pro- ceeded chiefly from tetanus. It also failed in the British army, and I believe I speak the sentiments of all experienced surgeons, when I say, that it is so little to be depended on, that we are not warranted to resort to it. For my own part, although I have known amputation repeatedly performed, in no one instance has it proved effectual. The most that I can say in favour of operations of any kind is, that I have known mild and chronic tetanus go off after the removal of a liga- ture from parts covered with fascia, but cannot determine whether the fall and removal of the ligature had any share in the recovery. Second, The application of the potential, but especially the actual cautery, by destroying completely the extremities of the affected nerves, might be expected to be at least as useful as amputation; and whilst I admit this, it will appear from what I have said already, that I have no confidence in the remedy. Third', Still less can we depend on the application of blis- ters, turpentine, and other irritating substances to the surface. We, indeed, read of instances of recovery after both the second and third plans, but never meet with them. Fourth, Various remedies have been proposed, and I believe none deserves more confidence than the exhibition of purga- tives. When I say so, I do not mean to insinuate that they can be l'elied on, but merely that they do more good than other remedies, particularly in chronic tetanus, as it is not523 very properly called. Tobacco clysters have been used, partly as means of producing relaxation by depression, but chiefly as acting on the bowels. There is, however, no sufficient tes- timony that they have more efficacy than other purgatives, such as infusion of senna, having sulphate ol magnesia dis- solved in it, jalap alone or with calomel, compound aloetic pills, &c. The purgative which can be most easily taken, and seems to produce the best effect in the individual case, ought to be daily employed, and in mild cases shall, I am persuaded, do more toward saving the patient than any other remedy. Opium is another remedy strongly advised by many, and I can bear testimony to its occasional service in mild, and what are called chronic cases, but it is a very uncertain remedy. It fails much oftener than it succeeds, and sometimes even aggravates the complaint. When it does good, it has been given in small doses, such as ten drops every hour, combined with a drachm of tincture of valerian. In acute and severe tetanus, it has been given in very large doses, one grain of opium every hour, or perhaps half an ounce as a clyster, but never in any dose, so far as I have seen, with the slightest advantage, and, I fear, general experience must corroborate the opinion. Venesection to a large extent has been tried, and, a priori, would promise much advantage, particularly if we consider the ground there is to suppose that tetanus arises from an excited or irritated state of a portion of the spinal cord. In tetanic convulsion, not dependant on wounds, I can aver, that nothing so certainly removes the fit as copious bleeding. But it is different in traumatic tetanus. We may, although not always with certainty, allay the violent convulsion by vene- section ; but, for this purpose, require to carry it ad deliquium animi. We do no more, however, than allay, or possibly remove one spasm or convulsion. The disease returns, to our mortification, as readily as if the lancet had not been employed. The old remedy of cupping the spine is as little to be depended on, and the application of blisters along that part is not attended with advantage. Could we fix on one part chiefly524- affected, caustic might do good, although it probably, in the fl,-st instance, would increase the spasm; but we never can with certainty fix on one part as the seat of irritation. The warm, has been pretty generally condemned, but some have spoken favourably of the cold, bath. I have never known it do good; and we are told that in Spain it was found worse than useless. Mercury does more harm than good. Digi- talis has been tried, probably because every thing else failed, but with no better success than might have been expected from it. It may poison, and thus sooner release the patient, but it cannot cure. Stimulants, such as brandy, wine, and antispasmodics, as musk and camphor, tonics, such as bark, have, with many other medicines, been tried, but never with good effect; often, I fear, with positive detriment. In consequence of wounds or local injury, the arteries of the part may be inflamed, and that inflammation may spread to a considerable distance, or even to the heart itself. I have, at page 75, described the appearance of an inflamed artery. Arteritis may appear under two forms. First, that in which it is confined to the arteries of an extremity. Second, when it is more extended, and particularly when it affects the aorta and its larger branches. In the first case, the nature of the disease must be ambiguous; for in so far as the artery is con- cerned, we should, at the most, only have pain in its tract, but this may also be produced by other causes. If the inflam- mation involve circumjacent parts, the diagnosis is still more difficult. Strong pulsations sometimes attend this disease, especially if the vessel yield, and the heart act strongly, but sensation can be no proof of strong pulsation : for in all ten- der and inflamed parts, pulsation is perceived. The discovery of pulsation in the tract of the artery, by placing the finger on it, is no certain proof, neither does its absence show that there is no inflammation. We can seldom say what precise constituent part of an organ or member is inflamed, and, indeed, inflammation is not often confined to one texture, or system, of a part. We therefore must receive many of the diagnostic marks of local arteritis as fanciful, nor have we525 great cause to regret this, in one point of view, for its treat- ment, both topical and general, is sufficiently indicated for all practical purposes, and consists in the employment of the usual means for allaying inflammation. After laceration, gunshot wounds, or even regular operations, the tract of the artery may inflame, and become painful, and the surrounding parts be more or less involved; but in such cases we must, independent of all conjecture, proceed on general principles. More general inflammation of the artery may be produced even by causes acting very locally, as, for example, the liga- ture; or the arteries may be inflamed by the extension of disease from an inflamed organ, as, for instance, the lungs, or they may be more directly inflamed by the operation of cold on the surface of the body, which, in particular cases, may act on them rather than on the muscles or other parts. Extensive arteritis is not a common disease ; for more fre- quently the inflammation is confined to the larger trunks, par- ticularly the aorta. This vessel, as well as other large arteries, is often found in dissecting rooms to have its inner surface of a deep scarlet colour, especially if the thorax have been opened, or air admitted freely into the cavity of the arteries for some days. This is no mark of the previous existence of inflammation, for it arises from a mere tinge of blood. The coats of the artery are found to be sound, the internal coat is not in any degree softened or thickened, nor is there the slightest approach to effusion of fibrin. The middle coat is healthy, and the outer one quite free from that fleshy, injected, and inflamed appearance which I have already described. The symptoms of this more dangerous and extensive form must be obscure. If the disease arise from propagation of inflammation from other parts, must not the symptoms of that previous inflammation, of the lungs, for instance, render those of the arterial inflammation less distinct; and can we certainly say whether the arch of the aorta, or its descending portion, or the pulmonary arteries, or the pleura, be the direct seat of the disease ? Let us, on the other hand, take the abdo- minal aorta for an example, and consider the parts which areadjoining to it, and we shall be satisfied that the diagnosis is more easily made in the library than in the sick-room. The case may indeed be well marked, and we may even have pain and throbbing of the carotid arteries, or arteria innominata, but it may also be doubtful; and our opinion comes to be formed more on probability than certainty. When arteritis is more extensive, and affects the vessels of the extremities, it may be supposed that we should at once detect it by the course of the pain, and by the tenderness of the tract of the artery when pressed on. But mere muscular, or aponeurotic inflam- mation, may sometimes present nearly the same symptoms. Those who describe arteritis sometimes enumerate amongst its marks some which can only be met with when particular parts of the arterial system are inflamed, such as palpitation, lancinating and hot pain in the thorax or abdomen, cough, difficulty of breathing, &c. Violent, and what has been called tumultuous action of the arteries, or universal throbbing, does not appear to be a necessary attendant on the disease, nor exclusively an indication of its existence. But whatever may be the doubt as to the precise nature of the disease, we have sufficient indications as to the practice. For although the local pain may be obscure, yet often, and almost always when the aorta is affected, it is sharp and distinct. It is of little use to enter into speculation respecting the sensibility of arteries; for we know, that even if it were established that their proper substance was insensible in health, yet their cellulai coat and connexion must be admitted to be sensible, and when inflamed, not only is the artery painful, but the neigh- bouring parts, as, for instance, the mediastinum, pleura, peri- tonaeum, &c. do suffer. In such cases of inflammation, we do not require to settle, first of all, whether the disease be seated in the artery or the viscus beside it, or in the membrane con- necting that viscus and the artery. We have pain in the thorax, difficulty of breathing, cough, perhaps bloody expec- toration, palpitation, &c., or we have constant pain in the back and loins, extending possibly to the groin, and aggra- vated on pressure, and complicated with tenderness of the belly, or nephritic affection, &c. Surely, in such circum-52 7 stances, he must be beyond all conception punctilious, who delays till he can determine the exact breadth and length, and locality of the disease. But, secondly, we have, in all serious cases, inflammatory fever, more or less exquisitely marked, sometimes coming on slowly, sometimes rapidly, according to the state of the local disease. It is quite useless to detail the symptoms of this fever, for it essentially differs in nothing from that I have already described under the name of synocha. I would only make two remarks. First, the pulse is generally hard and throbbing, even to a greater degree than in some other symptomatic fevers, and may also, if the heart, or vessels coming off* from it, be affected, be irre- gular. SecoJicl, the pi*evious state of the system, produced by the injury or diseased organ which may have caused the arteritis, must have some influence in modifying the constitutional effect of the arterial inflammation. We cannot expect the symptoms to be exactly the same, granting the arterial inflam- mation to be precisely of the same extent, in a case origi- nating from, or complicated with, a compound fracture, a gangrenous limb, a lacerated finger, an inflamed lung or uterus, or in one directly produced by sudden or long expo- sure to cold. The treatment must also be regulated by circumstances, but it is always anti-inflammatory. We detract blood instantly, and more or less freely and repeatedly, according to the pre- vious state of the system, and the urgency of the symptoms. If the constitution be strong, and the disease acutely produced, we bleed as copiously as we should do in pleurisy. If it have followed an amputation, or succeeded to a debilitating injury, we still may find it necessary to bleed, but must do so more cautiously. If it appear in the course of some previous inflammation, for which we have already been using the lancet, we must, nevertheless, bleed generally and topically, as we should have done in a relapse or aggravation of the original disease. We apply leeches over the tract of the artery, if it be in an extremity; or a blister, if it be in a cavity, and follow out, in all respects, the same methodus medendi which we should adopt in other dangerous inflammations. If \528 abscesses form around the artery, we let out the matter by a speedy opening. A vein is more apt to be affected by spreading inflamma- tion than an artery, and this may be induced either by a liga- ture, or by a free division of a vein, or even of its semi- diameter, or by the propagation of inflammation from the neighbouring parts. For example, the application of caustic to form an issue over the vena saphena, has caused fatal inflammation. An abscess in the neighbourhood of a vein, or inflammation, or suppuration of a stump, or of a surface from which a tumour has been extirpated ; or a small angry boil; or the mere festering of the wound made in venesec- tion, with, or without extensive subcutaneous inflammation, may inflame the vein. At page 76 I have described the appearances produced by inflammation. The effect produced on the vein, the extent to which it spreads, and the severity of the constitutional symptoms, vary in different instances. Slight inflammation is productive of thickening of the coats of the vein, with effusion of the ordinary inflammatory secre- tion, followed often by the obliteration of the tube. This is attended with a corresponding tumefaction of the circum- jacent parts, and inflammation, or festering of the external wound. The constitution is often not more affected than from a phlegmon of the same extent. When the degree is a little greater, the cellular substance immediately sunounding the vein, becomes more acutely inflamed, and forms some- times a chain of indurations of considerable extent along the tube, which is equally inflamed there, or forms a poition of the common inflamed mass. These indurations end in ab- scesses, which either burst externally, or into the cavity of the vein. In such a case as I am describing, we find the limb for a little way below, and pretty extensively above the wound or original seat of the injury, swollen, tense, and painful. The tract of the vein is more painful, than other parts. It is sometimes marked by a red line on the surface, at other times the redness is more diffused. If the swelling and ten- sion permit, the vein may be felt thickened, and sometimes a chain of cellular indurations is perceived along it. When529 this affection does not yield early to curative means, we find that it increases to a great degree, but it does not always appear to make progress in a continuous line. For, different parts of the vein, or of the venous system, may exhibit symptoms moi'e acutely, whilst the intervening portions are less affected. At the same time, the limb itself, from the puncture upwards, is affected, usually with universal swelling, and the pain is often great, sometimes excruciating, especially when the ac- companying nerves are involved. The constitutional symp- toms are not always proportioned to the severity of the local disease, but sometimes are very severe, when the external appearances are not very extensive. There may be fatal consequences, although the inflammation be confined to a small portion of the vein, and neither the heart nor lungs have suffered, nor any of the abdominal viscera. In such cases, however, we usually find, within the diseased portion, pus, more or less mixed with coagulated blood. The consti- tutional symptoms are generally ushered in by shivering, along with frequency of the pulse, which is also sometimes full. The skin is hot, there is excessive thirst, frequently vomiting, and, with scarcely any exception, the patient speedily experiences great prostration of strength. Sometimes there is even a feeling of indescribable sinking, accompanied with great dejection of mind, there is pain of the head and back, with numbness, or pain in the extremities, which sometimes in- creases about the joints to an excruciating degree, so that the patient cannot get rest; but presently it becomes duller and more tolerable. There is usually, in severe cases, pain in the thorax, particularly in the left side, or, where this is wanting, there is anxiety, accompanied with despondency. The breath- ing is short, and sometimes difficult. The tongue, red and. dry. If we set aside the history of the disease, and the ex- ternal appearances, the symptoms are very much like those of typhus fever, accompanied with pulmonic or cardiac inflam- mation. Sometimes the fever assumes an intermittent appear- ance. The duration of these symptoms is variable, some are cut off in a week, others live for nearly two months. On examining the body, the vein, from the injured part upwards, 2 M530 is found inflamed and thickened, lined with lymphatic exu- dation, or filled with pus, or obliterated. If the vein be traced downwards it is usually found healthy below the wound. When the inflammation has originated at the elbow, the inflammation has spread up to the external jugular vein, and along the subclavian, yet, in such cases, the vena cava, may, as well as the heart, be apparently sound, but the lungs may be inflamed, and contain abscesses. In other cases, we find both the vena cava and the heart, dark coloured. The blood is generally florid in the vessels. When the vein is inflamed without suppuration, the coats become thickened, and a sec- tion remains round like that of an artery. When pus is contained in a portion of vein, that portion often loses its inflamed appeai’ance, whilst a long tract beyond it is of a deep red colour. If the disease have pi’oved rapidly fatal after the application of a ligature, a clot is usually found both above and below the ligature, sometimes red, sometimes yellow, like coagulable lymph. Where the constitutional symptoms are severe, or the local disease considerable, it will be proper to have early recourse to venesection. The quantity of blood to be taken away, and the propriety of speedily repeating the evacuation, must depend on the effect produced. When we diminish the fre- quency of the pulse, and lessen all the uneasy sensations of the patient, we are warranted to repeat the evacuation in the event of an exacerbation. But where an early detraction of blood has not been of decided advantage, but has rather been followed by sinking, it will require symptoms of acute inflam- mation appearing in some new part to justify a recurrence to the lancet. I have seen venesection carried to a great length without advantage, even, when aided by the application of blisters, to painful parts of the thorax. I do not fiom this, however, dissuade from the use of the lancet, but only from pushing it beyond that degree which gives decided relief. Ex- cessive evacuations, if not essential to a cure, and evidently bringing it about, must, on the other hand, sink the patient, and destroy any chance, he might otherwise have, of 1 eco' ei ing. Generally speaking, I would say that venesection is not well531 borne in this disease, and ought not to be pushed far. It is better to have recourse to the free application of leeches on the pained parts, than to detract much blood from the vessels by the lancet, for we are sure, and that at no late period, to have a state of great depression. Cold applications to the part often are useful; but when these produce shivering, or increase the pain, or give a feeling of weight, they must be exchanged for cloths wet with tepid water. Blisters are proper, if the inflammation be deep seated, and some advise them even if subcutaneous veins be inflamed, but in this opinion I cannot coincide. With regard to purges, these ought not to be given to a greater degree than is necessary to keep the bowels open. The diet should be light and sparing, the drink mild and cooling. If matter form under the fascia, it cannot be let out too soon. Mr. Hunter proposed, as soon as the existence of the disease was discovered, to apply a compress on the vein above, so as to keep its sides together, in hope of producing adhesion, and thereby preventing the farther propagation of inflammation; but, besides the difficulty of applying this pressure without injury to inflamed parts, we now know, too surely, that the disease may prove fatal without spreading continuously, and that we no more can pre- vent the system from suffering, the patient from sinking, or the disease from spreading, by pressure on the vein, than we can by the same means prevent any other sympathetic effect, or the propagation of peritonaeal inflammation. Wounds of lymphatic vessels require no particular treat- ment as to the effusion of their contents. Of the mode in which these wounds heal we are ignorant, except in so far as analogy informs us. We neither can say that punctures heal without obliteration, nor that obliteration is effectual or usual, but with regard to division the case is clear, both from analogy and observation. If much lymph flowed, the vessel not speedily closing, compression, or the use of astringents, not so strong as to act as escharotics, have been proposed, and may be depended on. But the chief effect to be attended to, as following an wound, is inflammation, extending up the trunk, and communicating itself to a greater or less number532 of brandies. This is marked by some degree of tumefaction of the cellular substance, producing sometimes even a general swelling of the limb. The substance around the vessels becomes inflamed and thickened, so as to give them a feeling of cords, and the skin, over these cords, becomes of a reddish or pink colour, so that their course may be perceived by these coloured streaks. In severe cases, the induration is greater at one part than another, so as to form a chain of tumours like glands under the cutis, and over the vessel, and these sometimes suppurate in succession. It has been supposed that a pretty general inflammation of the lymphatic vessels of an extremity might take place, and produce a tense, elastic, dif- fused swelling, to a great degree, over the whole limb, consti- tuting a disease called phlegmasia dolens, in the puerperal state, and producing an affection of a similar nature in other conditions. Of all this there is no proof, and such effect arising from inflammation, or injury of the lymphatics, rests altogether on assumption. The treatment of inflammation of lymphatics is simple. We must use the lancet, and the general antiphlogistic plan, when the local affection is severe, or the constitutional effects are considerable. When they are very slight, we may be satisfied with a purgative and spare diet. Cloths, wet with cold water, or solution of acetate of lead, should be applied on the course of the lymphatics, and, if any particular part be very tender, leeches should be applied there, which may prevent the formation of local induration of cellular substance, or, if the whole course be tender and painful, leeches may be applied along it. If suppuration take place in any of the indurations, or around the trunk, warm poultices must be applied, and the treatment, recommended in abscess, be pursued. When a nerve is divided, and its extremities retained in contact, adhesion takes place, the intermedium either becomes gradually more perfect, or is so completely absorbed, that the neurilemma becomes again continuous, and the function of the nerve is slowly restored. If no inflammation take place, no pain attends the process; that which is felt at the moment of division soon ceases. But when a nerve is only partially533 divided, there seems to be more excitement produced, and still more, if it be lacerated or punctured, and then inflamma- tion is apt to follow. At page 78, I have described the appearance of this, and I now remark, that the two prominent symptoms are, great pain in the tract of the nerve, from the injured spot to its extreme ramification, and such excitation, of the origin of the nerve, as gives rise to spasmodic affection, not only of the member, but of distant parts. The pain is sometimes excruciating, and described to be of the burning kind, or it may be a scarcely more tolerable combination of prickling and numbness. In some cases, the parts supplied, are so exquisitely sensible, that the slightest touch produces agonizing pain. In others, the greatest pain is produced by pressing on the seat of the injury, or swollen part of the nerve. The spasms vary, from slight twitchings of the limb, to severe tetanus, or the muscles beyond the injured spot may be permanently and rigidly contracted. It also happens that the subcutaneous substance of the limb may become swelled, tense, and painful, along the whole extent of the distribution of the nerve, and this occasions one form of what has been called diffused cellular inflammation. But this is not an essential effect of inflammation of the nerve. In like manner, the veins which accompany the distribution of the nerve may participate in the inflammation. Thus we find, that the vena saphena may be inflamed, inconsequence of injury or disease of the saphenus nerve, and vice versa. The general system is affected, in most instances, and we have frequent pulse, with the other attendants on acute fever, besides a complication of local symptoms arising from peculiar sympathies. The danger proceeds from three sources. The pain may be so great, and so continued, as to exhaust the patient, the fever may cut him off, or he may die in a tetanic convulsion. The symptoms may not come on for a day or two after the injury has been inflicted, the nervous inflammation not having been sooner established. They may also commence after the wound has healed, and in this case we generally find, that the nerve has not properly united. It has become involved in an effusion of fibrin, or inflammatory tumour, which, at53 4 the very first gave no inconvenience; but presently, when, from some cause or other, undue or irregular action has taken place in this new organization, the nerve has become involved in the action, as well as identified with the organization or tumour. The same circumstance may take place, by an impli- cation of the nerve in the cicatrix, which becomes tender, inflames, and produces severe effects on the nerve which is connected with it; or, perhaps, in some cases we may reverse the statement, and say, that the injured nerve becoming inflamed, brings the cicatrix into a participation with it. This acute inflammation, marked by the symptoms detailed, if not subdued, may either end in ulceration of the nerve, or chronic inflammation. The first is rare, if we take it in the strict sense. Suppuration is oftener met with, and pus may be found in the substance of the nerve, or the coi'd may be par- tially, or even completely absorbed, and the surfaces in a state of suppuration. This state is always attended with high sensibility and great pain. Chronic inflammation, is a more frequent termination, and is productive of much pain, aggra- vated, as in the acute stage, by pressure. The nerve on inspec- tion is found to be enlarged, and more vascular, and covered, perhaps, with a coating of fatty looking substance, but whether this be fibrin or albumen has not been determined by any experiment. When we know, from the great pain immedi- ately produced, by the prickling, or numbness of the extremity, that a nerve has been punctured or injured, we must take the greatest care to promote adhesion, by laying and preserving the parts in absolute contact, relaxing the limb so as not to put the nerve on the stretch, and enjoining a state of perfect rest of the member. We thus bid fair to prevent inflamma- tion. If we fail, and inflammation do take place, we ought immediately to use means for checking it. If the pulse or system be affected, or even if not, if the local swelling be con- siderable, we should detract blood from a vein, and then appty leeches. If venesection be not required, a greater or smaller number of leeches should at once be applied on the spot. No benefit is to be expected from diffusing them over the pained parts of the extremity, if the pain be evidently merely535 from the excitement of the nervous branches. But, if the neighbouring texture have become involved, and there be gen- eral swelling, or tension, or if the vein have become inflamed, then the leeches must be applied over the surface. The bowels are to be properly opened, and afterwards preserved in a regular state. Either cold or tepid applications are to be made to the part, according to the effect the one or other may have in giving relief. If these means fail, and we have either spasm, or a conti- nuance of intolerable pain, a free division of the injured nerve should be made, either, if its situation require, by a regular dissection, so as to expose the nerve higher than the injured spot, or in other cases, particularly of cutaneous nerves, by a free transverse incision a little higher than the spot. This division may be expected to do most good in cases where pain is the prominent symptom; but if the lower part of the extremity have become inflamed, the same benefit cannot be expected. It may even be supposed, that the division of the nerve might give a tendency to gangrene under these circum- stances. But if it have the effect of removing sensation, more advantage than hazard is likely to follow. We also expect benefit in cases where spasm, particularly of the limb, has taken place, for we destroy for a time the action of the nerve. There is, however, no certainty of our thus succeeding in removing the pain, or checking the spasm; and if these have gone beyond the affected limb, the prospect is more unfavour- able. We know too well, that an injury of the branch of a nerve may speedily, perhaps instantaneously, affect the origin of that nerve, or the medulla spinalis, in such a way, as to prove a cause of both pain and spasm, independently of the state of the branch. In such a case, the division of the nerve, or the amputation of the limb itself, can do no good. We may, in such cases of pain, remove the arm or the leg, but the patient still feels as much pain as ever in the extremity of the stump, or even feels as if the hand or foot were still suffering. If we cannot cure the state of the origin of the nerve, in this case, we can do no good. I am, therefore, warranted in saying, that whether the pain arise from an wounded nerve, or be536 connected with a tumour of, or around, the nerve, or from the effect ol an ulcer of the nerve, or from any other cause, unless we believe that the symptoms are local, that is to say, arise entirely from the state of the injured or affected part, and not from the condition of a higher portion of the trunk, or of the origin of the nerve, an operation can do no good. This leads me to observe, that all the effects I have described as following inflammation of a portion of nerve, may be pro- duced by a cause acting on its origin, or on some part of its trunk remote from the seat of pain, &c. The mere pressure of a gland within the abdomen or pelvis, on one of the nerves coming out from the spine, may produce severe and distant pain. The lodgment of a ball near the spine, or an aneurism of the aorta, may produce exquisite sensibility of the skin over the belly. I remember one case, where, after a gunshot wound and lodgment of a slug near the spine, pressure on the spot caused great pain, but the surgeon could not afterwards dis- cover the substance. The patient complained of great tender- ness along the ribs, and over the opposite region. Direct pressure there gave little pain, but if the opposite side were pressed so as to make the viscera go toward the sensible side, he complained much. But the most excruciating pain was pro- duced by slightly drawing a silk handkerchief across the side, from the spine forward, yet he felt no inconvenience if the motion were reversed. Pain, of the nature of neuralgia, is often productive of increased action of the vessels of the part affected, or, inde- pendent of sensation, the state of the extremities of the nerves act so on the vessels, as to cause redness, and often heat. This is particularly the case in very delicate parts, as for instance, the eye, and, in this, even actual inflammation may be induced. We also find, that when the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves is thus affected, and the gums, or jaws, or tongue, become acutely sensible, swelling may take place. The gums become turgid, and rough like shagreen, and some- times ulcerated. The tongue becomes foul, and swollen, and tender. When the disease depends on the state of the origin of thenerve, it is vain to expect benefit from any mean which does not act on that. If an extraneous body be lodged there, or in the course or substance of the trunk, or if a tumour be formed, or pressure in any way made, nothing but the removal of the immediate cause can be of service; for instance, the extraction of the foreign substance, or the excision of the tumour, and of the portion of nerve involved in it. But there are effects produced sympathetically on the origin ol the nerve, which may subside by time, or be removed by acting on the organ previously alfected, when that can be discovered. It is on this principle that we find a course of laxatives, alteratives, as they are called, mineral waters, change of air, with regular exercise, attention to diet, remedies for removing dyspepsia, and its effects, &c. do good in differ- ent cases of acutely sensible nerves. When there is a remit- tent or intermittent fever, as happens in many nervous affec- tions, quinine is of use. I have always found that, or arsenic, efficacious, in proportion as the disease manifested a disposi- tion to make its attack in regular paroxysms. The mere lapse of time, especially if we do not aggravate the complaint by stimulants, sometimes brings about a cure. Palliating symp- toms, also promotes recovery or restoration to health. Hence, opiates internally and externally ax*e useful; and it has been well remarked by practical writers, that in cases of neuralgia, although the pain sometimes prevents sleep, yet, if the patient fall asleep, it rarely makes its attack so as to awaken him. There is very often, especially when the pain comes on with- out an evident cause at regular hours, an increased action of the vessels of the part, marked by heat and throbbing. Leeches always mitigate the pain in this case, but they cannot be regularly repeated. When there is reason to suppose that a turgescence of the vessels in the spinal cord is the cause, venesection is proper, and does good, especially if carried to the extent of producing sickness; but this is generally only a temporary cure, and cannot be frequently resorted to. Purga- tives and emmenagogues are, in females, more useful as per- manent remedies. It is sometimes fortunate for the patient, when the effect of538 turgescence or excitement, &c. is to produce pain, for in some cases, where that is not the consequence, severe, and almost tetanic convulsions may take place; or in whatever way we may explain the fact, we find that a dreadful feeling of weight or distention is produced within the head, or in place of pain in an extremity, or referred to any viscus in the thorax or abdo- men, we have agonizing pain in the head, or a feeling as if melted lead were poured on the brain. Such feelings and effects are sometimes alternated with an attack of suffocation resembling croup. When pain, from the condition of the nerve, is felt near a joint, there is sometimes difficulty in ascertaining the nature of the disease. Firm pressure increases pain, if it arise from inflammation or local disease; but if, from the state of the nerve, we find that pressure on the spot either gives no pain, or it does so only if made very gently, and especially if the part be titillated by a soft handkerchief. I have seen cases where much uneasiness was felt near the sacrum, and about the hip joint, and yet no disease existed there. Pain is often felt at the outside of the knee, from the state of the external cutaneous nerves, and at other parts of the joint, from affections of the branches of the anterior crural nerve. In such cases, when the general remedies already noticed are not effectual, and when anodyne applications do no good, blisters on the region of the origin or upper part of the trunk of the nerve, have appeared to me to be useful. CHAP. XI. OF THE MANAGEMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION UNDER DISEASE AND INJURY. It would require a volume, and that volume would be a most instructive one, to give special rules and directions for the management of the constitution under every different degree of injury and modification ol disease. A few general remarks539 are all that can be offered here, and yet these, I hope, may form a useful conclusion to the details already given. It is a plain, but important truth, that every injury, not rapidly or immediately fatal by the suspension of the perform- ance of the vital functions, every diseased or disordered action of any organ or part, may prove detrimental, or destructive, either speedily by the shock which is given, or more slowly by ex- haustion, from the nature or violence of the action, or the severity of the sensation attending it. There are, then, as we have seen, different states, which may be produced by an accident, an operation, or a disease, which may prove inju- rious, or fatal, not by the communication to the system of an action similar to the local one, or of any special action what- soever, but directly by the effect of the injury, or local con- dition, on the action and power of the system considered abstractly. These states have been already considered, under the head of shock, exhaustion, &c., and the management of the constitution under them is, in general, pretty obvious. We promote rallying, either by a negative treatment, that is, by avoiding all exertion, and farther expenditure of power, or, by the positive exhibition of cordials, &c., so as to recruit on the one hand, without unduly exciting on the other. The rule, in the case of sudden and severe sinking, is to give cordials, and apply stimulants to an extent, and so frequently, as may be necessary, not only to prevent still farther sinking, but also to enable the system to go on with the performance of the vital functions, in such a degree, and with such per- fection, as shall procure rallying, and place it in that state of comparative security, which shall empower it to continue acting without the constant aid of artificial stimuli. If we cannot accomplish the first object, the patient dies, if we go beyond the limits of the second, we may have a dangerous excitation produced. This constitutes our management of shock and sinking. Exhaustion, is more slow in its operation, and is not merely the consequence of injuries, but the effect of all undue and disordered actions. These may, indeed, prove fatal by the disorganization they produce, and the interruption they afford to the performance of functions essential to life; but they.5 40 also destroy by wearing out and exhausting the system. A high degree of action may speedily be followed by sinking, the patient dying rather suddenly; but, usually, the exhaustion is more slow, and, in certain cases, the frame is not destroyed till after the lapse of many months. But in all these cases, it is the debilitating and exhausting effect vchich is fatal. It is not the mere state of action, or the mere existence of the disease which kills, but the weakness produced. This, how- ever, may be greatly aided by the interruption of function. Now, the inference at first sight would be, that the constitu- tional treatment here should be to give cordials, and employ direct means for keeping up the strength. But a previous consideration is, whether these cordials may not, in place of supporting the strength, increase the diseased action, and consequently sooner destroy the patient. We come, then, to a safer rule, namely, that in all cases where we can, we subdue, or allay, the action, even if evacuations should be required for the purpose. Where we cannot do this, or our means fail, then, as a last resource, we must give cordials, so as to do as little harm, and procure as much benefit as possible. In diseases where we have great excitement, and high action, wre are sure to have exhaustion speedily produced, if we cannot allay that action. If we can do so, the patient recovers from the exhaustion, unless it have gone to an extreme degree. Looking forward, then, to the state of exhaustion, we take the earliest means of checking the action. In inflammation, for instance, we have recourse to blood-letting, which is a direct mean of producing debility, and yet it comes, in this case, to be the mean of preventing exhaustion. If we bleed early, and to such an extent at a time, as shall accomplish the object of curbing the inflammation, if not of stopping it at once, and repeat the evacuation soon, and allow the blood to flow till relief be obtained, the patient is saved, and although weakened, is not fatally exhausted. But if we bleed fre- quently, yet in so inefficient a manner, as not to suspend the progress of disease, even by any one evacuation, we sink the patient sooner. One man, then, may save his patient with the loss of thirty ounces of blood. Another, by frittering541 down his bleedings, by stopping each time before relief be gained, may detract double the quantity, without even miti- gating for a moment the disease, and by his injudicious em- ployment of a remedy, destroy him who might perhaps have recovered, had he been totally neglected: for it is not to be forgotten, that if depletion be not conducted so as to prove useful, it must be positively injurious, and also, that beyond a certain degree it is not safe. By the timely and proper use, then, of evacuations, we may save the system. The constitu- tion is in an unnatural state of excitation, or inflammatory action, and a quantity of blood may be safely taken away, nay, with the feeling of relief, and the effect of preventing exhaustion, which, if lost in a state of health, should have either proved fatal, or have produced great hazard. If we arrest the progress of the disease, and destroy the inflam- matory action, wre seldom have occasion to use means for directly preventing exhaustion, and if we have, these are always to be sparingly employed, unless mortification require. But there is a case, in which inflammation and fever come on, in a person weakened by previous evacuation, or sunk by the shock and violence of an injury, and here the constitutional treatment is more difficult. He is in danger, even from slight disease, of great or rapid exhaustion, and yet we dare not give cordials. It is, therefore, a case of peculiar danger, and many die. The rule is to bleed early, but not repeatedly, and en- deavour to support the strength, by the mildest cordials, by those which ought rather to be called nutriments than stimu- lants, at the same time that we lessen the exhausting influence of pain, by the exhibition of opium. All fevers cannot be ai’rested or cured by depletion, but the chief exceptions are those connected with, or dependant on such local affections (under which I may include the exanthemata), which cannot be thereby controlled. Yet even in these, there are few cases where a moderate, if at the same time an early, use of the lancet, or of leeches, may not be useful. I have offered these remarks, which are perhaps recapitu- lations of what has already been said, to illustrate the pro- priety, in every instance, of directly checking disease, if we5 42 can, even it' the means employed should be absolutely of a debilitating nature, as we thereby, by sooner restoring health, render exhaustion less to be apprehended. But there are other, and not less important, views to be taken. A disease may be produced by the direct application ot a cause to a part. The disease so produced, may affect the constitution, and in its turn be affected by it again. The disease, so produced and continued, may run a certain course in a constitution previously healthy. 1 he very same kind of disease, produced by a similar cause, may run a different course, or be modified by the previous state of the system, or by sympathies excited by particular parts. A disease may be produced by causes acting on the medulla spinalis or oblongata, or, through these, from other organs. Thus, we may have vomiting, purging, hepatic affection, fever, disease of the brain, boils and eruptions, from the state of the chylopoietic viscera. There are two different states in disease, admitting, how- ever, of multiform varieties and modifications. One acute, marked by evident excitement, making a comparatively rapid progress, and attended with more or less evident local dis- order ; the other more chronic, both of the system and of the part, as we see in tumours, ulcers, inveterate derangement of function, &c. In both cases, though under different circum- stances, and in varying degrees, we see the influence of the constitution; and after all that has been written on the sub- ject, we come to this, that when the disease is curable, it is so, chiefly, by using such means as mitigate or curb particular effects and manifestations of action, and by those, which improve the general condition of the system, particularly by the removal of all local disorder and derangement of function, or, which improve the action, and performance of the function, of every individual part, which brings us much to the same point. If one part of the system can act on the rest, as it would be vain to dispute, and if the more sensible and important organs do so in a superior degree, it will naturally follow,543 that whether we have local or general disorder induced by any cause, that disorder must be influenced by the previous state of important organs, or by such conditions as may sub- sequently be induced in them. There can be as little doubt that such states of particular organs and functions, must have an influence on the system at all times, and previous to any injury or local disease ; but the consequences of this influence may not be manifest in the ordinary state of health. But no sooner does a fever take place, or a tumour appear, or a local injury be inflicted, than we find a most marked influence xcited; and, if we endeavour not, to correct the state of the organ or function thus in fault, we cannot cure our patient. It will also be evident, from what has in a former part of this work been stated, that disorder in one part, for instance in the abdominal viscera, may affect a distant part, and produce there an improper mode of acting, manifested by inflamma- tion, or some other disease, and only to be removed by removing the original cause. The means of improvement, must vary according to the organ affected, and the state of the function; but the principle to be remembered is, that if such derangements can produce distant disorder, or keep up general excitation, their removal must, if not effectual, be at least indispensable. We regulate the diet, giving only what is most easily digested; we promote digestion by antidys- peptic medicines; we restore and keep up the action of the intestines by laxatives; we use sarsaparilla, and other similar medicines, called, for want of a better term, alteratives; and we abstain from the use of stimulants, which, whilst they could do no good to the system, might excite farther the disorder of the organ in fault. . 4 here doubtless may be local diseases, apparently arising without evident exciting cause, and which are occasioned by distant organs acting sympathetically. Although it by no means follows that the removal of the disorder of such organs, even aided by topical applications, and other suitable means, shall remove the local disease, yet we are pretty sure, that so long as the remote cause exists, the disease, more immediately an object of attention, cannot be cured. Therefore, along withI 544 the use of remedies proper for that, we must use means for removing the condition we have detected. The influence, then, of local disease on the constitution, and of that again on the local disease, is most important. Many local diseases, however they may be produced, cannot be removed without lessening or destroying the constitutional effect. In other words, local applications, even when they can be made, are not always sufficient. It comes, then, to be of the utmost importance to ascer- tain how the general condition, which tends to keep up the local state, may be changed or improved. When the local disease is the original cause, and still continues to be a sup- porter of the general disorder, it might be expected that the removal of the one should destroy the other. But this is not necessarily the case, for such changes may have been induced, as shall not subside by the mere removal of the local disease, even were that possible; for the general condition reacts on the local one, and keeps it up. Then it will be said, that, as these two react on each other, and reciprocally support and influence each other, recovery can never take place. This unfortunately is too often the case, but, sometimes by the use of means, sometimes by inexplicable and spontaneous changes in the constitution, health is restored. If asked how we were to get rid of any disease, we should say, by destroying or checking it. But we have seen, and it has been particularly stated (page 132) that we have no means of assuredly and directly checking and destroying disease. We may so far act on it, and mitigate its force and its hold, as to enable the healthy action to displace it, and resume its operation. We should, therefore, be led to place much reliance on those means which improve health, or tend, directly or indirectly, to restore the natural function or action of the system, or of part of it. Let us, by all means, when we know how to do it, mitigate the violence, and counteract the direct effect of the action. Let us attack it in detail, by oppos- ing and removing particular manifestations, as is exemplified ininflammation. But in more obscure disorders, in actions and conditions, respecting the nature and phenomena of,545 which we are more ignorant, and, to speak perhaps somewhat more suitably, respecting which, we have less knowledge of what is practically successful to guide us, we must be satis- fied with employing such means, for improving the health, as do not exasperate or excite the disease. I know not how to impress the reader sufficiently with a belief, that the most important general principle he can adopt is, that after obviating the farther operation and immediate effects of the exciting cause, his object ought, most earnestly to be, the improvement of the general health, or promoting the correct and vigorous performance of all the functions, as constituting the main spring of recovery. Ask a young student how he should improve the health, and very probably he would reply, by the use of those invigo- rating remedies called tonics, and yet these might be the very worst he could employ. They are often useful, but only when they do not stimulate or excite the disease. Another person will say, keep up the action of the bowels; give pur- gatives, and all shall be well, or exhibit the mildest prepara- tion of mercury to act on the liver. I have already noticed a first rule so plain, that it cannot be mistaken, namely, to lessen the operation of the causa dolendi, or counteract, or directly lessen its effect, so as to arrest its progress, and check the action, and this I have illus- trated by the effect of bleeding in inflammation. But there are causes more remote, which may keep up dis- ease, modify its phenomena, and do most certainly aggravate its symptoms; these must be obviated. This leads to a second rule, which enforces the alleviation or removal of all disturbed or disordered action of any one organ or part, and the removal of all irritating and exciting conditions in general. This requires much attention to the condition of the system, and of individual functions. It would be quite in vain, here, to attempt a minute detail of the mode of carrying this into effect. The alvine discharge is to be specially attended to, both in point of regularity and quality; and when either are defective, means of improvement must be used. A daily and free stool, 2 Nnot, however, disproportioned to the aliment taken, must he obtained by a mild laxative, such as the compound rhubarb pill, the aloetic pill, Cheltenham salts, rhubarb and magnesia, &c. When sickness, griping, or headach, are produced by efficient doses, or when such doses as can be depended on, are apt to act too powerfully, the daily use of a clyster of tepid water to solicit their operation, is of much benefit. In chronic disease, much advantage may be derived from the use of mineral waters of an aperient kind, and their utility is greatly aided by the change of air, regular habits, and other cir- cumstances too evident to require explanation. It is not to be expected, that when the bowels have been neglected, one or two days of attention can be of any service, but we must persevere for weeks or months. On the other hand, we must not place all our reliance on purgatives; we must not have the patient exclaim, in the words quoted by Johnson in one of his Lives, I forget which, “ Cordials in pity give, For I too weak for purging grow.” Purgatives are good, but they may be, and I fear sometimes are rendered instruments of destruction; unless they improve the appetite, the digestion, the strength, they do harm. It is quite a senseless system to push them as long as the stools are offensive;—what stools ought not to be offensive ? As for the appearance, I suspect that often the argument for purging is derived from the effect produced by the medicine itself. The digestion is to be improved, particularly in chronic disease. This is to be done, first of all, by avoiding every thing which disagrees with the stomach, and also by refraining from putting too much into it. There have been many rules laid down respecting diet, and there are certain diseases, in which a strictly vegetable diet is inculcated, and others, in which a more liberal one is allowed, and the articles are specified according to the taste or whim of the doctor. Now, far be it from me to sneer at the science of dietetics; much more may be accomplished by general rules, than by particular in- structions, and especially by those more befitting a charlatan547 than a physician. In all inflammatory diseases, a very mild diet is necessary, but even here we may run to an injurious extreme. It is now well known, that abstinence, particularly if there be an appetite, is productive of an excited or irritated state of the stomach, marked by redness of the mucous coat; and no good, I apprehend, can come from allowing any patient to feel very hungry. In all cases of excitement, particularly of inflammatory action, the diet should be mild and, generally, farinaceous. At the same time I do not consider that a little weak soup, with bread, is much more stimulating, and in the wane of the disease, it is perhaps preferable. In more chronic disorders, I maintain, that, generally speaking, that diet is best, which is found by the patient to be least troublesome afterwards, and, by his experience, to have the least injurious effect on the stomach, the pulse, the sleep, and the disease. That which is felt long in the stomach, and passes through, imper- fectly digested, is improper, and in many, though not in every case, the quantity should be more moderate than the appetite would incline to. As a proof that more importance, in chronic disease, is attached to the nature of the aliment than is necessary, provided we attend to the power of digestion, and the effect on the patient, I will, and do maintain, that if two patients, in consumption, be placed under the care of two different theorists, and the one restricted to milk and veget- ables, and the other allowed animal food, there shall, at the end of a given period, be little or no difference between them, if the function of digestion, and the state of the disease, have been the same in both. Whenever the aliment becomes acid, it proves hurtful, and therefore, in all diseases, of whatever kind, when this happens, we should avoid those articles which are, by experience, found to become readily acid, and ought also to give, along with the food, a small quantity of super- carbonate of soda, which is one of the best means of correcting this, for whilst it almost uniformly agrees well, it neutralizes the acid, and thereby removes a cause of farther injury to the function of the stomach. Dyspepsia is often attended with a peculiar susceptibility of the nerves of the stomach;.048 and sometimes, also, blit more rarely, with increased sensibility, and the removal of acid is useful; and so is mild diet in moderate quantity. The action of the stomach has much influence on other parts, and often on the brain, which, in its turn, acts very extensively. But, perhaps, in many cases, where the stomach is supposed to be in fault, the original evil is in the nervous system. Certain medicines called tonics and stimulants, have been advised, in order to improve the func- tion of the stomach, and thereby prtfmote health. These are always safe if they do not increase the frequency of the pulse, or produce some other effect on the system, or on the local disease, so marked as to indicate the impropriety of persever- ing in them. Those bitters, or combinations, which are also laxative, are found to be useful, such as rhubarb with magne- sia, or soda with Angostura bark, or compound tincture of gentian, infusion of cascarilla, or of quassia, or of bark : or chalybeates, or quinine, are often serviceable. The sulphuric acid is useful where it does not produce pain, or cause purging. Quinine alone, or combined with sulphate of iron, is a good medicine when it does not increase the frequency of the pulse, and if a little aloes be added, the bowels are kept regular. When the tongue is a little furred, but not very foul, a pint of decoction of sarsaparilla, taken daily, with a very mild laxa- tive, is often useful. Sarsaparilla is not so useless as some suppose, for it often promotes digestion, and also improves the appetite. A course of an aperient mineral water is fre- quently of service, both by the effect on the stomach and bowels, and also by the necessary change of air and of scene, and the abstraction of the mind from business. This last object is of great importance, for many disorders are brought on, and kept up, by harassment and anxiety of mind. Relief from care, and particularly when aided by pure air, regular exercise, and early hours, can often do more than any medi- cine. When the biliary system is in fault, the exhibition, for a short time, of a small quantity of the mildest form ol mercury, the blue pill, aided, if necessary, by a gentle aperi- ent, and, if possible, succeeded by a short course of Chelten-549 ham water, will be found very useful. When the skin is arid the common saline julap is a very good medicine. It is very difficult, and delicate, to manage the constitution of those who have lived intemperately, when they are affected with disease, or subjected to injury, and no distinct and gene- ral rule can be given. The condition produced, varies, not only, according to the original constitution of the patient, his age, the length of time he has been imprudent, and the degree of his intemperance, but also with other cffcumstances, such as his abstinence from food, or gorging his stomach, the nature of the stimulant he has taken, wine, spirits, porter, and the degree of exertion he has made, the temperature he has been exposed to, and the apparent extent of the alteration produced on the nervous system, and organs of digestion. Generally speaking, under disease, no more stimulus should be allowed than is absolutely necessary to prevent sinking, or injurious irritation, from the want of a long continued excita- tion. Such stimuli, should be given, as act more on the stomach than on the system, such as some spices, and only a moderate portion of wine, or any form of fermented liquor. Opium may, if it allay uneasiness, be a useful substitute for alcohol, or at least make much less be sufficient; and, indeed, in no one case, whatever the former habits have been, should we give one ounce of wine, or spirits, or porter, more than is imperatively called for by the existing state of the system; and the effect both on the pulse, on the feelings, on the stomach, on the mind, and on the sleep, as well as on the temperature, and on the local disease, must be watched. Such patients bear evacuation ill, and, therefore, when bleeding is necessary, we must use the lancet very early, and not push it far. Purgatives are more useful, and, in moderation, are always safe, but neither are they to be carelessly prescribed. Mild mercurial preparations, such as the blue pill, with gentle laxatives, often are useful, and the exhibition of the saline julap is beneficial. The diet should be light, and given in small quantity, as frequently as the stomach will receive it with comfort. I can say but little in favour of quinine, and550 what are called tonic medicines, even when the disease seems evidently to require these. In cases of mortification, they must be tried, but more dependance is to be placed on mild laxatives, light nourishment, and the cordials most agreeable to the stomach. The complication of spasmodic affections, such as hiccup, &c. with this state, adds much to the danger, but it has already been considered. /INDEX. Activity, principle of, 1. Action, exhausting effects of, 4—healthy, of the system, two kinds of, 8—inflam- mation excited by communication of, 108. Abscess, treatment of, 272—when under fascia, difficulty of discovering, 274— encysted, danger of opening, 277—con- stitutional treatment of, 278. Absorption of tumours, 157. Adhesion, phenomena of, 382—Mr. Hunter’s doctrine of, incorrect, 384< —mode of union in, 385—known to, and acted on, by Celsus, Taliacotius, &c. 387—experiments shewing com- munication of action in, 389—causes of failure of, 390—pain apt to prevent, by exciting inflammation, 391—inflam- mation preventive of, 392—thinness of parts, a cause of failure of, 393—may be produced by inflammation, ib.—by second intention, 395—of canal or tube, 396. Agents, their local and constitutional ef- fects, 13. Alimentary organs, sympathy with skin, 185. Anastomosing aneurism, 317—arterial, 318—venous, 319—case of, occurring on the temple, 321—modes of treatment, ib.—branches, circulation earned on by, 4-13. Anodynes in inflammation, 148. Aneurism, false, formation of, 409,421— pulsation of, 410—diminution of by pressure, 412—mode of cure of, 425. Aneurism, and means of restraining haemorrhage, 420. Aneurism, true, opinions regarding its formation, 447—preceded by disease of coats, 448—laceration of internal coat in, 449—circulation in, 451—progress of sac in, 452—pulsation of, 454—how distinguished from pulsating tumour, 456—diagnosis in, ib.—pulsation some- times obscure, 459—effect of on artery beyond, 460—course of, and former practice in, 461—Hunter's operation for, 462—principles on which an ope- ration ought to be performed, 464— mode of cure of, and obliteration of artery, 465. Aneurism, treatment of patient after operation for, 472—Valsalva’s mode, —other modes of treatment, 478. Aneurismal varix, 423, 484. Aponeurosis, inflammation of, 41. Application of ligature beyond aneurism, 474. Arachnitis, 52. Artery, inflammation of, 74. Arteries, wounded, 397—coats of, 402— analysis of, 403—sheath of, 404—pro- perties of different coats of, ib.—heal- ing of wounded, 405—wound of, stop- ped by eoagulum, 407—blood flowing from inferior aperture of, by retro- grade circulation, 408—both ends of, becoming continuous by expansion of fibrin and solid blood, 409—of import- ance in application of ligature, ib.— obstacles to natural cure of wound of, 411—natural mode of obliteration of, 414—wounds of, experiments and opi- nions on, 417—importance of sheath of, 418—oblique wounds of, 424— wounded, tendency to retrograde cir- culation in, 425—ligature of, effects on constitution, 468. Arteritis, 524—symptoms, 526—treat- ment, 527. Astringents, use of, in inflammation, 143. Blisters in inflammation, 150. Blood, coagulation of, and separation of into two parts, 91—change of in in- flammation, ib.—buffy coat of, circum- stances effecting formation of, 92— buffy coat of, causes assigned for for- mation of, 94—retains its globular ap- pearance in inflammation, ib.—loss of a predisposing cause of inflammation, 116. Blood-letting, modus operand! of, 132— topical, 136—general, how .and when to be used, 139,540, 555—state of pulse not to be trusted to alone, after, 141— substitutes for, 143. Bone, 82—inflammation of, S3—seat of in vascular membrane, ib.—termina- tions of, 85. Brain, inflammation of, 79. Burns and scalds, 196—local effects of, 196, 197, 198—constitutional effects of, 199—treatment of by early writers,201. Burns, treatment of by moderns, 202 treatment different in small and in ex- tensive, 206—vesications, treatment of, 207—when vesications burst, 208 when the cutis is disorganized, ib. when the part is destroyed, 209—mor- tification, ib—sinuses succeeding, 210 —by gunpowder, ib—constitutional treatment ot, ib.—stupor succeedingstage of, 101—frequency of pulse and in- treatment of, 214—contraction of joints following, 216. Cancer, 332. Cancerous action and texture, 344—dia- thesis, 346. Cancer, ulcerated, treatment of, 352— excision of, 354—excision ot, some- times a palliative, 356—comparative success of operations in, 358. Carbuncle, 230. Cartilage, proofs of inflammation of, 45. Capillaries, stagnation of blood in, in inflammation, 118, 121—effect on, by dividing vessel in inflamed foot of frog, 137. Cautery, actual and potential, as a mean of restraining haemorrhage, 426, 427. Cellular texture, inflammation of, 34. Cervix uteri, cancer and extirpation of, 342. Chilblain, 229. Cicuta in cancer, 349. Circulation carried on by anastomosing branches, 413, 466. Cold, sensation of, after operations, &c. 102—in inflammation, 145. Cold, a cause of debility, 226. Compresses in haemorrhage, 430. Cordials, action of, 16—in haemorrhage, 399. Cornea, inflammation of, 28, 47—extra- vasation in, 555. Cotton, application of in erysipelas, 193 —to burns, 208. Debility greater in one part than in ano- ther, 18—different states of, 216. Diaphoretics in inflammation, 145. Digitalis as a substitute for bleeding, 144. Disease, two principal sources of, 23— seldom general, ib. Discutients applied to tumours, 159. Ductus arteriosus, mode of obliteration of, 414. Erysipelas and erythema, 86, 171. . Erythema, supposed to be a peculiar in- flammation, 172—repellants in, 176— attending wounds, 177—occurring in a broken habit, 179—treatment in, 180. Erysipelas of head from external in- jury, 181—treatment of, 183—arising from contusion, 186—symptoms of, 187. t . . Erysipelas, tendency to metastasis in, 188 treatment of, 189—local applica- tions to, 192—treatment in when sup- puration has taken place, 195 ai is- ing in a broken habit, 232. Exhaustion, 494. Fascia, inflammation of, 37—a mean of propagation of cancer, 340—necessary to remove in extirpation ot cancer, 355. Fever, doctrine of, 97—two kinds of, attended with local disease, 99—cold crease of temperature, not always pro- portioned in, 103—following wounds, 512. Fibrous membranes, inflammation of, 42. Function of a part may be stopped, yet its action be increased, 22. Fungous ulcer, 289. Fungus hoematodes, 329—description of, 330—when occurring, 331—treatment, 332. Gall-bladder, inflammation of, 69. Gangrene, induction of, after ligature in a limb, 444. Granulation, 114, 284—inflammation not necessary to production of, 114. Hastings’ opinion of proximate causes of inflammation, 118. Hectic, 267, 279. Haemorrhage, 397—contraction of vas- cular system after, 398—immediate effects of, attributable to loss of stimu- lus, 399—treatment of, 400—treat- ment of secondary effects of, 401— means of stopping, 426—actual cautery formerly employed, 426—potential cautery, 427—sponge, agaric, &c. 428— compresses, 430—ligature, 431—after application of ligature, 437. Health, how restored to a part, 8,132,545. Hospital gangrene, 301—treatment, 304. Hunter, Mr. operation for aneurism, 462. Inflammation, symptoms of, 24—change of organization in, 25—increase of vas- cularity in, 26—increase ot tempera- ture, 27—redness not essential to, 28— swelling attendant on, 30—liability to spread along the texture in "which it begins, 32—of cellular substance, 34— —of fascia, 57 — of skin, 38, 170 — of aponeurosis or fascia, cover- ing muscles, 41—of fibrous membrane, 42__of tendon, 43—of synovial mem- brane, 43—of periosteum, 44—of liga- ments, 45—of cartilage, ib.—lucid cor- ena, 47—of serous membrane, 48—of peritoneum, 49—of mucous membrane, 54—of trachea, 59—of urethra, 61— of mucous coat of intestine, ib.—ol lung, 64—of liver, 67—of artery, 74— of veins, 76—of nerves, 78—ot brain, 79—of muscle, 80—of bone, 82. Inflammation, division of, 86,89—termi- nations of, 89—effects of on system, 96—exciting causes of, 100—stimuli, 106—affection of origin of nerve, 107 —by sympathy of equilibrium, 108—by communication of action, ib.—varia- tion of temperature, 110—application of heat after cold, 112—pain, ib.—di vi- sion of parts, 113—distention, 115 loss of blood, 116. Inflammation not necessary to produc- tion of granulation, 114—proximate558 Metastasis, 517—tendency to in erysipe- las, 188. Mercury in inflammation, 152, 555—for lessening tumours, 160. Mortification, 237—appearances of, 288 —variously produced, 240—mode of propagation of, 241—how stopt, 244— treatment of, 247—constitutional treat- ment of, 250—amputation in, 257— when to amputate in, 259. Mortified parts, separation of, 239. Mucous membrane, inflammation of, 54 —character of, 56. Mucus animal, 57—morbid changes of, 58. Mucous coat of intestine, inflammation of, 61—secretion affected, 64. Mucous membrane, inflammation of, 161—treatment of, 166—topical appli- cations to, 168—chronic inflamma- tion of, 169. Muscle, inflammation of, 80. cause of, 117—experiments on, 118— appearances of, in web of Irog’s toot, 119—nerves, concerned in, 125—sup- posed by some to be the production of a vis medicatrix, 127' I nflammation, treatment of, blood-letting —modus operandi, 131, 132—topical bleeding, 136—general, 189— purga- tives, 145—astringents, 148—local ap- plications, 149 —removal of distention, 150—blisters, ib.—mercury, 152—cold, 145. Inflammation combined with wound, 154—terminating in change of orga- nization, 155—chronic, 162—treatment of, 163—of mucous membranes, 164- treatment of, 166—chronic, /170. inflammation, comparative power of parts to support, 217—of parts previ- ously sound, 221—of parts previously debilitated, 224—arising from contu- sion or laceration of parts, 233—a cause of adhesion, 393. Inflammatory action, capable of modifi- cation, 33. * Intestine, redness of, mistaken for in- flammation, 51. Iodine, given in scrofula, 373. Irritation, 105—definition of, 503 — symptoms of, 505—causes of, 506— treatment of, 507. Life, definition of, 1—different pheno- mena of, dependant on different por- tions of nerves, 9. Ligaments, inflammation of, 45. Ligature to arteries, 431, 471—opinions regarding its modus operandi, 431,432— length of time necessary to produce its effects, 432, 433—points requiring at- tention in application of, 435—causes of failure in application of, 436—includ- ing nerve in, 439—form and size of, ib.—proposed to cut both ends off, 441—length of time required for sepa- ration of, 442—effect of on limb, 443. Liver, inflammation of, 67—ending in abscess, 70. Lucid cornea, inflammation of, 47. Lung, inflammation of, 64—appearances on, 65—formation of pus in, 66. Lupus, 358—description of sore in, 359 —extirpation of, 360—application re- commended by Mr. Justamond in, 361. Lymphatic vessels, inflammation of, 74 —wounds of, 531—general inflamma- tion of, supposed to constitute phlegma- sia dolens, 532—treatment of, ib glands, inflammation of, 73. Mamma, inflammation of, 72—structure of, ib. Management of constitution, in exhaus- tion, 539—in diseases of high excite- ment, 540—two different states of dis- ease, 542—particular organs affecting system, 543-—influence of local disease on constitution and vice versa, 544 treatment of, 545. 2 Naevus matcrnus, 320. Nerve, connexion between origin and extremity of, 9—influence of origin on extremity, 12—inflammation of, 78— reaction of extremity on origin of, 107 — connected with inflammation, 125—wound of, 532—inflammation apt to follow partial division or laceration of, 533—symptoms of, ib.—treatment of, 534—case where a ball lodged at the origin of, was productive of distant pain, 536—treatment when disease de- pends on state of origin of, 537—diffi- cult to ascertain nature of disease when pain affects the joint from in- jury of, 538. Nervous energy, different faculties of, 10. Noli me tangere—see Lupus. Opiates in inflammation, 148—after burns, 212. Organs, individual, having laws of their own, yet influenced by the system, 11. Organization, change of after inflamma- tion, 155—absorption ofj 157—general treatment of, 158. Pain, an exciting cause of inflammation, 112, 526. Periosteum, inflammation of, 44 Peritoneum, inflammation of, 49. Phagedena, 299. Phlebitis, 528—constitutional symptoms not always proportioned to severity of local disease, 529—appearances after death in, 529—treatment, 530. Phlegmon, 31. Pressure in cancer, 348. Pulse, variously affected in inflamma- tion, 104. Pulsation of arteries, 454. Pus, characters of, 262. Rallying, explanation of the term, 495. Reaction, 12, 497—treatment of, 499. ORedness, not essential to inflammation, 28—in inflammation, not from forma- tion of new vessels, 29. Scalds, see Burns. Scirrhus, 332—symptoms of, 333—ap- pearance and formation of sores, 334 —lymphatics and glands affected in, 336—digestive organs affected, 337— terminations of, ib.—analysis of, in note, ib structure of, ib—propaga- tion of, 340—of cervix uteri, 342— exciting causes of, ib.—treatment of, 347—medicines which have been tried in, 349—excision of, 354. Scrofula, 362—description of mild, ib.— description of malignant, 364—marks of a scrofulous constitution, 365—re- marks on its origin, &c. ib.—pecu- liarity of hereditary constitution in, referrible to the nervous system, 366 —peculiarity of texture in, 367. Scrofulous diathesis, 368—means to be employed to lessen predisposition to, 369 — treatment of, 371—treatment when suppuration seems to have com- menced, 574. Scrofulous sore, 375—proposal to eradi- cate by excision or caustic, 367. Sedative, no direct, 20. Sensibility, 10. Sensation, acute, attendant on wounds and injuries, causes of, 499—in appa- rently sound, or in diseased structure, 500—effects of, 501, 502. Sinus, suppurating, 281. Serous membranes, inflammation of, 48 —higher in the layer covering the organ than in that lining the cavity, ib. —more apt to extend to organs than parietes, 49. Shock, 488—symptoms of, 489—sources of danger from, 490—treatment of, ib.—excitement succeeding, 491—of diminution, 492. Skin, inflammation of, 38, 170.—causes of, 173—phlegmonous and bilious, 175 —sympathy between, and alimentary organs, 185. Spasmodic affections arising fromwounds, 518. Stimuli, application of, 15—defect of, 17—action of, in exciting inflamma- tion, 106—acting from extremity on origin of nerve, 107. Stimulants in burns, 205. Stupor succeeding burns, 200, 214. Strength, definition of, 22. Suppuration, 262—process of, 264—con- stitutional symptoms, 267—febrile irri- tation succeeding, 271—means of acce- lerating, 272—after burns, 212—gan- grenous, 281. Suppurating sore, 297—treatment, 298— ending in phagedena, 299. Susceptibility, 4. Sympathy of communication, 5—of asso- ciation, ib.—of equilibrium, 6—doctrine of, applicable both to health and dis- ease, 7. Synovial membrane, 43. Synocha, symptoms and course of, 96. System, some parts of, more easily de- pleted than others, 397. Tartras antimonii, as a substitute for blood-letting, 144. Temperature, increase' of, in inflam- mation, 27—effect of variations of, 110. Tendons, inflammation of, 43. Testicle, inflammation of, 70. Tetanus, 518—symptoms of, 519—dif- ferent modes of treatment of, 521. Trachea, inflammation of, 39. Traumatic inflammation, 113. Tuberculated sarcoma of Abernethy, 328. Tumours formed after inflammation, 158—remarks on classification and for- mation of, 305—encysted of fibrin, 312 —cellular, 317—occurring in neck, 316 —granulated, 323—occurring in can- cellated structure of bone under the name of osteo-sarcoma, 325—with cavities, 326—occurring in the orbit, 327—cystic sarcoma, 32S—scirrhus, 332—encysted, three varieties of, 377— steatomatous, mellicerous, atheroma- tous, ib.—treatment of, 379. Ulceration, 283—definition of, 284. Ulcer, description of healthy, 286—local treatment of, 287—fungous, 289—irri- tated, 290—becoming indolent, 292— indolent, 293—treatment of, 294—with varicose veins, 296. Urethra, inflammation of, 61. Varicose veins with ulcers, 296—aneu- rism, 423, 484—operation for, how likely to fail, 485. Valsalva’s mode of treating aneurism, 476. Vascularity, increase of, in inflamma- tion, 26. Veins, inflammation of, 76—course of, 78—coats of, 479—division of, 480— wound of artery through, 482—con- sequences of, 482—treatment of, 483. Vitality, source of, 2. * , Weakness, different kinds of, 19—pri- mary or antecedent, 19—secondary or consecutive, 20—conjunct, 21. Wounds, dangers attending, 508—when to operate after, 509—fever following, 512—treatment of, 514—spasmodic af- fections arising from, 518—tetanus fol- lowing, ib.The following Errata have been discovered : Page 16, line 18, for “ soon as,” read, “ soon an.” — 20, — 2, for “ on determining on operation,” read “ in determining on an operation.” — 28, — 21, for “productive,” read “ is productive.” — 47, — 26, for “ determining an operation,” read “ determining on an operation.” — 47, Add at the bottom. If the cornea be injured, so that its pellucid vessels be ruptured, we have an extra- vasation of their contents, which speedily coagulate between the lamellae, and produce an opacity, as the effusion of red blood, elsewhere, does an ecchy- mosis. By the use of leeches, &c. this is soon absorbed, and the transparency restored, perhaps in twenty-four hours. — 141, — 15, After the word “patient” the following sentence has been omitted : By bleeding early, and to such an extent, at each time, as shall give decided relief, one man shall save his patient; whilst another, who bleeds without carefully attending to the effect, may open a vein often, and take much blood, and yet each evacuation shall only do harm, and contribute to sink the patient, without in any degree mitigating the disease. If blood have not been efficiently detracted in the commencement of the disease, one full evacuation, even at a later period, may arrest the fatal progress, provided the pulse have not al- ready become feeble, and the strength been ex- hausted. If the bowels had obstinately resisted , the operation of strong medicine, they generally begin to act immediately after this bleeding. 153, 2, after “begun,” add, In the wane of inflammation, par- ticularly when purgatives are indicated, a full dose of calomel, for instance a scruple, often soothes the action, and may be repeated according to its effects. 201, 3, from the bottom, for “ conjunx,” read “ conjux.” 489, 18, for “ tropical,” read “ tropecal.” r^( ■*!t r% " *0 '- - $ $pKhull & Son, Printers, 8, Kast Clyde Street, Glasgow -