73 CURRIED LAMB. LAMB CUTLETS. fast (uncovered) for a quarter of an hour ; drain and press out all die water. Chop it fine, put it into a saucepan, ivith half an ounce of butter, and stir over the fire till it boils; then serve as directed. 212. CURRIED LAMB. (Second dressing.) Cut up about three-quarters of a pound of cold lamb into neat pieces an inch square ; trim off all fat and skin. Knead a tea- spoonfiil of flour, a tablespoonful of curry-powder, and a quarter of a pound of good butter into a soft paste ; peel and slice thin three moderate-sized onions, and fry them in the curry butter till tender and browned; then put in the lamb, and stir for ten minutes; add a small teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of cocoa-nut milk, or cream; stir in the juice of a small lemon, and serve at once, with plain boiled rice in a separate dish or placed round the curry, as may be preferred. Wash half a pound of the best lice, throw it into a quart of hot water, Avith a teaspoonful of salt, and boil for twenty minutes ; stir irequently, to keep each grain separate ; drain on a sieve before the fire or in the oven for three minutes. 213. LAMB CUTLETS, WITH WHITE SAUCE. (Second dressing.) Cut up any joint of cold roast lamb into slices the third of an inch thick; trim them into neatly formed cutlets; season four ounces of fine crumbs of bread with a saltspoonfi.il of ivhite pepper, two saltspoonfuls of salt, a teaspoonful of mixed sweet herbs (in fine poivder), a table.spoonful of finely chopped parsley, and the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated; beat one egg, dissolve an ounce of bujfer. Dip the cutlets into the butter, then into the crumbs ; let them stand in a cool place for ten minutes ; then dip them into the egg, and again into the crumbs, and fry in two ounces of dissolved butter fi>r ten minutes. Place the cutlets round the dish, and serve, Avith the sauce made as folloAvs; Put the bones of the lamb into a saucepan, Avith a pint of cold Avater, a small onion, two cloves, a bay leaf, four sprigs of parsley, and boil till reduced to the third of a pint; knead an ounce of butter Avith a dessertspoonful of baked flour, and stir in ; boil five