85 BUMP STEAK. either wine or brandy, and stir into the gravy ; boil quickly for eight minutes. Place the beef on a dish; take off the paper; pour the sauce into the dish, and serve immediately. 238. BEOILED RUMP STEAK. Have the steak cut half an inch thick, and in one piece. Put it on the gridiron, over a bright quick fire, till done; eight minutes, ‘under-done; ten minutes, ■with the gravy in; twelve minutes, well-done. Put it on a hot dish, rub an ounce of butter quickly over both sides, and .sprinkle it with half a saltspoonful of .salt and a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper. Serve immediately. Notb.—Use steak-tongs for turning, or if you have not those, place a fork in the fat. 239. RUMP STEAK, SAVOURY, WITH FRIED POTATOES. Have the steak cut half au inch thick, broil it as directed in the preceding receipt, have ready two shalots, chopped fine, and the strained juice of a lemon ; pour the juice over the steak, and sprinkle it with the shalot. Serve very hot, with fried potatoes round the dish. 240. FRIED POTATOES. Pare and cut into slices, the eighth of an inch thick, six pota- toes, throw them into boiling fat, more than sufficient to cover them, and fry to a pale brown colour, ten minutes; then serve. 241. STEWED RUMP STEAK. Let the steak be well kept and evenly cut, three-quarters of an inch thick, and abotit one pound and a half weight; dredge it with baked flour; make a stewpan hot, rub it three times across with garlic, put in two ounces of butter and the steak, and fry both sides brown ; add three-quarters of a pint of good gravy or stock (No. 1), a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, halt’ a grain of cayenne, a mustardspoonful of fresh-made mustard; boil up qtxickly, skim, and set it where it will simmer very gently. Clean, and cut into small balls, with a scoop, one cai-rot, one turnip, the white part of a small head of celery; peel twelve small white onions and twelve button mushrooms ; dissolve two ounces ol butter, and fry the vegetables till of a pale brown colour.