TOL-AU-’VENT OF SWEETBREADS, ETC. 109 t>01. VOL-AU-VENT OF SWEETBKEAUS, MUSHEOOMS, AND POTATO BALLS. Order a two pound loaf to be baked in an oval cake-tin ; let it be one day old. Cut off the top above the tin ; scoop out the crumb, leaving three-quarters of an inch all round and at the bottom; be very careful not to make a hole anywhere. Now pare off the crust, and dip the case into oiled butter (half a pound), and put it into the oven for twenty minutes; redip it in the butter, and let it remain in the oven till of a pale bright brown colour (or a paste ca.se may be used, see note). Cut off the pith and skin of two sweetbreads, and blanch them in boiling water for five minutes; cut each into equal-sized pieces, and throw them into cold water foi’ an hour; take them out, wipe them dry, and dredge over a dessertspoonful of baked flour. Eub a bright stewpan with garlic (four times across the bottom) ; put in two ounces of butter, the sweetbreads, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, the thin rind of half a lemon, four sprigs of parsley, a laurel leaf, a bay leaf, half a blade of mace, tw'o cloves, the strained juice of a lemon, two tablespoonfuls of white wine, and a teacupful of veal stock (No. 2) ; boil up quickly ; skim ; then simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Take out the sweetbreads ; skim and strain the sauce; add the yolks of two eggs, beaten with a gill of thick cream ; boil two minutes. Take olF the skin of twenty button mushrooms; throw them into a pint of boiling w’ater, with a saltspoonful of salt and the strained juice of a lemon ; boil fast for twelve minutes, and drain on a sieve. Boil four potatoes; add half a saltspoonful of salt, an ounce of fre.sh butter, a quarter of a gill of cream, and one well-beaten egg, beat with a wooden spoon till light; make up the potatoes into balls the size of a marble ; dip each into beaten egg, and put them into fast-boiling milk for two minutes; then drain on a sieve. Put the sweetbreads, mushrooms, and potato-balls in alternate layers into the bread case, and pour the .Siiuce over; serve quite hot, with a neatly rolled napkin on the dish. Note—Make a paste according to the preceding receipt; roll it out; tha last time an inch and a quarter thick; cut it with a vol-uu-vent cutter six inches in diameter. Make an incision a quarter of an inch deep, with a cutter an inch smaller; bake about three-quarters of an hour. Take out the centre, and proceed as directed.