STEWED sheep’s BRAINS. KIDNEYS. 67 dissolved butter (for foiu: sets, two ounces), and dredge them over Avith baked flour; then dip them in beaten egg, and sti-ew them over with fine dried crimibs of bread. Fry in plenty of boiling lard to a pale broAvn colom-; fry slowhj for twenty or twenty-five minutes. Serve, neatly placed round the dish, with the following sauce in the centre:—Boil a quarter of a pint of new milk, with the thin peel of half a lemon, half a shalot, half a bay leaf, half a laurel leaf, and half a saltspoonfiil of salt; let it simmer ten minutes; beat the yolks of two fresh eggs, strain the milk, stir in the eggs; add the strained juice of half a lemon and fom’ di-ops of tarragon vinegar. 194. STEWED SHEEP’S BRAINS. Have four or fiA'^e sets of brains; trim oflp the skin and fibres, and put them into hot water, Avith a teaspoonful of vinegar, and let them remain for half an hour. Wash them in cold water and drain them on a sieve; season with a teaspoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated; dredge both sides Avith baked flour, and fry in dissolved butter (two oimces) for six minutes, just to colour the surface ; place them in a bright steAvpan. Peel, and fry in the same butter, twelve small white onions till of a pale brown colour; put them with the brains. Mix a tablespoonfiil of baked flour with half a pint of stock (No. 1) ; add a tablespoonful of Harvey-sauce, a dessert- spoonful of mushroom ketchup ; pour in the gravy, and simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour; skim, and shake the stew- pan frequently. Add a wineglassful of any wine, and seiwe immediately. 195. BROILED SHEEP’s KIDNEYS, Take off the skin and cut the kidneys in half; put them on an iron skewer, dip them into oiled butter, sprinkle them slightly with pepper and salt; put them on a girdiron, over a bright fire, and broil for eight or ten minutes; AvithdraAv the skeAver, and serve on a very hot dish. 196. STEWED KIDNEYS. Have six or eight sheep’s kidneys; trim off the skin, and cut each into four pieces; put them into a steAvpan, with three ounces F 2