110 VEAL. 29-2. calf’s liver, ROASTED. The liver must be quite fresh. Have a piece about two pounds and a half weight; take off the skin and pith, and lard the round side thickly with fat, bacon. Spread upon a large sheet of fools- cap paper a quarter of a pound of good butter; put the liver into the paper, and turn up the corners, to keep in the butter; roast before a good lire for an hour and a quarter, basting constantly with sweet di'ipping or butter. A quarter of an hour before serving, take off' the paper, dredge over a dessertspoonful of baked flour, and baste well; pour off the fat, and mix A\dth the dripped gravy the strained juice of a lemon, half a saltspoonful of salt, and a wineglassful of white wine; pour the gravy over the liver, and serve immediately. 293. STEWED CALF’S LIVER. Have a neatly cut piece of liver, about two pounds weight; trim off the skin and pith, and lard the round side thickly and deeply with good fat bacon. Eub a stewpan four times across with a piece of fresh-cut gaidic ; put in the liver, with an onion, a small caiTOt, half a head of celery, aU sliced, a blade of mace, two cloves, three allspice, six peppercorns, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, a dessertspoonful of soy, two tablespoon- fuls of mushroom ketchup or two fresh mushrooms, a teacupful of any stock or gravy, and a quarter of a pound of buttei', placed on the liver; simmer very gently for three hours and a quarter, basting the liver constantly. Take out the liver; skim the fat off, and rub the gravy through a sieve; add a wineglasslul of Marsala ; boil up ; poirr over the liver, and serve. 294. MOCK ‘ PATE DE FOIE GRAS.’ Procure three pounds of calf s liver, quite fresh, and three- quarters of a poimd of good fat bacon. Cut the bacon into slices a quarter of an inch thick, and the slices into strips a quarter of an inch broad; pierce the liver with a large larding- needle, and leave the bacon in the liver, at inch distances, till all is used. Eub the bottom of a stewpan five times across ^vith a piece of fresh-cut garlic; put in the liver, with two chopped shalots, a laurel leaf, a bay leaf, a blade of mace, four pepper-