BEEF. 90 253. FRIED TRIPE, WITH SHALOT SAUCE. Well -wash two pounds of tripe in cold water, and cut it into pieces three inches long and two broad; put it into a stewpan, with a quart of cold water, a dessertspoonful of vinegar, a tea- spoonful of mustard, and a teaspoonful of salt; simmer two hours; drain, and roll the tripe in a cloth to dry. Make a batter with four tablespoonfuls of baked flour, two tablespooniuls of olive oil or oiled butter, the third of a pint of tepid water, and three eggs; well mix and beat the batter for half an hour ; dip each piece of tripe into the batter, and fry in oil, butter, or lard, using sufiicient of either to cover the tripe ; fry to a pale yeUow'- brown colour (eighteen minutes). Serve, placed in a circle on a very hot dish, with the following sauce in a tureen. 254. SHALOT SAUCE. Peel and chop twelve shalots and a quarter of a clove of garlic, put them into a small saucepan, with the strained^ juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful of finely grated horseradish, a teaspoonful of fresh-made mustard, a saltspoonful of salt, half a grain of cayenne, and half an ounce of butter; stir over a brisk fire for five minutes. Add the third of a pint of new milk ; stir five minutes more; beat the yolk of a fresh egg -with half a gill of thick cream; stir it into the sauce, boil two minutes, and serve. 255. STEWED COW-HEEL. Have a fine fresh-boiled cow heel, cut oflf the meat into pieces two inches square; put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, with half a pound of gravy beef, a sliced onion, half a carrot, half a head of celery, two cloves, four allspice, six peppercorns, a saltspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of sugar, a saltspoonful of mustard, and a quart of water; simmer for three hours, and skim frequently. Strain and skun off all the fat. 1 ut the pieces of cow-heel into a stewpan, pour over the gravy, add two table- spoonfuls of chutney-sauce, a dessertspoonful of soy, a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, a grain of cayenne, a saltspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup; simmer gently for three hours. Knead two ounces of butter