A FEW THINGS WORTH KNOWING. 322 labelled, and arranged in order. The following list may sen-e as a guide : — Tea, coiFee, cocoa, loaf sugar, moist sugar, sifted loaf sugar, pounded sugarcandy, whole rice, ground rice, tapioca, sago, semolina, pearl barley, Scotch barley, arrowroot, Oswego, Brown and Poison’s Indian com, Du Barry’s Revalenta Arabica, macaroni, vermicelli, groats, oatmeal, lemons, currants, raisins, almonds, sweet and bitter, candied peel, vanilla, cinnamon, nut- megs, mace, allspice, cloves, whole pepper, ground pepper, black and white, cayenne, mustard, fine salt for table use, curry-powder, soy, anchovy-sauce, vinegar, Lucca oil, tarragon vinegar. Chili vinegar, Harvey-sauce, tomato-sauce, chutney, Cre-fydd’s sauces (see notice following index), mushroom and walnut ketchups, capers, all kinds of herbs in bottles, closely corked, pickles, cur- rant jelly, and other preserves, raspberry and black currant vinegar, dried and preserved fruit for dessert, biscuits in tin, &c. &c., soap, candles, night-hghts, lamp-wicks, house flanneL wash-leathers, black-lead (Nixey’s is the best), emery cloth, emery powder, rotten-stone, cleaning pastes (see receipts), spirit of wine, wax lighters, Vestas, Dimond’s cement, liquid glue, liquid gum, marking and writing ink, string, waste paper, tool- box, &c. &c. Regularity should be observed in giving out stores, whether it be done daily or weeldy. The following prac- tical observations may be useful, and may be depended on as correct: — Twenty-eight teaspoonfiils of tea are equal to a quarter of a pound; thirty-two moderate-sized lumps of sugar (about three-quarters of an inch square) are equal to half a pmmd. Tea, to be good, requires three teaspoonfuls to the breakfast-cup ; coffee, one ounce to the coffee-cup; composite candles, eight to the pound for bedroom use, burn four horns and a half. These minute details are intended to aid the inexperienced housewife in giving out the right quantities, according to the taste and habits of the consumers, and will be found useful if weights and scales are not at hand. Kitchen stores must depend on the use there is for them. Each seiwant requires, for personal use and cleaning purposes, three-quarters of a pound of • soap a fortnight. All other stores are regulated by the receipts, as each contains the exact quantity required. A moderator lamp of good size, always in use, in the course of a year consumes fourteen gallons of the best oil, if burnt till eleven or hall-past. Coals should be laid in