117 PORK COLLOPS. MINCED PORK CUTLETS. cayenne, a saltspoonful of salt, and the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated; dissolve two ounces of butter slightly (not to oil) ; dip the pork into the butter, then into the crumbs, lay it in a tin dish; chop three shalots or a small onion, and strew over ; pour the remainder of the butter over, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Peel and cut up five apples ; put them into a saucepan, with two tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of a small lemon ; boil fast till in a pulp; turn it into the centre of a hot dish; lay the pork round tastefully, and send to table at once. 308. POEK COLLOPS. (Second dressing.) Cut some neat slices of cold roast pork (about three-quarters of a pound); take off the fat; season with a saltspoonful of pepper, a grain of cayenne, and a saltspoonful of salt; broil over a clear fire for eight minutes, and serve with the following sauce ;—Mince three apples and two onions (both rather large) ; put them into a saucepan, with a wineglassful of Marsala, two tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, and simmer for an hour; stir frequently ; place the collops round the dish, and the sauce in the centre. Send to table very hot. 309. MINCED POKE CUTLETS. (Second dressing.) !Mince three-quarters of a pound of lean roast pork and two- shalots; season with a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, a mustardspoonful of fresh-made mustard, half a grain of cayenne, a quarter of a saltspoonful of sage, in fine powder, and a teaspoonful of baked flour ; add a tablespoonful of pork gravy and one well-beaten egg; make up the meat into the form of small cutlets (five or si.x) of equal size ; dredge them with baked flour, and fry in plenty of boiling fat till of a pale brown colour (about eight minutes). Serve with apple-sauce made as follows:— Peel and cut up four large apples; put them into a saucepan, with a piece of garlic the size of a pea, two tablcspoonfuls of moist sugar, and two tablespoonfuls of brandy ; simmer for three- quarters of an hour ; beat with a wooden spoon till quite smooth place the cutlets round the dish, and the sauce in the centre.