G8 MUTTO.V, ETC. of butter, two slialots, finely chopped, a tcaspoonful of chopped parsley, half a saltspoonful of pepper, the same of salt; put it over a quick fire; shake the pan continually ; dredge in a table- spoonful of baked flour; add a dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup; simmer twenty minutes; pour in a wineglassful of sherry, boil up, and seire very hot. 197. SCOTCH HAGGIS. "Well wash and cleanse a sheep’s pluck and the small fat tripe, and boil for half an hour ; remove all pipe and skin, and mince the meat quite small; dry in an oven a tcacupful of the best oatmeal, chop fine two onions and one pound of beef-suet; add these, and season with a dessertspoonful of salt, a large teaspoon- ful of black pepper, and a grain of cayenne. Have a sheep’s paunch well cleaned and perfectly whole; mix three-quarters of a pint of beef gravy with the mince, put it into the paimch, sew it up loosely, tie it in a cloth, leaving room to swell, and boil slowly in plenty of water for three hours and a half. Serve very hot, placing the paunch in a deep dish or tureen. 198. SHEEP’S-HEAETS, KOASTED. Soak the hearts in water, and thoroughly cleanse tliem; cut away the pipe and all rough pieces; make a stuffing with two ounces of beef-suet, one ounce of bread crumbs, a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, the hard boiled yolk of one egg, the twelfth part of a nutmeg, a grain of pepper and salt, half a shalot, finely chopped, the juice of half a lemon, and one beaten egg; mix these ingredients well together, and fill the hearts. Butter some foolscap paper, and tie over the hearts; roast or bake three-quarters of an hour, well basting aU the time; take off the paper a quarter of an hour before serving. Make a gravy Avith a quarter of a pint of stock, a teaspoonful of mu.shroom ketchup, a teaspoonful of rice flour, a saltspoonlul of chutney-sauce, and a tablespoonful of any wine. Serve venj hot. 199. POTTED MUTTON. (Second dressing.) Cut up half a pound of lean roast mutton and a quarter of a pound of boiled tongue; pound to a smooth paste; sea.sonwith a