127 nOAST FOWL. frequently. A poult will require about an hour and a quarter ; a turkey ■weighing nine pounds, two hours and a quarter; and beyond that, allow ten minutes for every pound. Half an hour before serving, take off the paper, dredge slightly with baked flour, and baste with dissolved butter till done. Make gravy as follows :—Eub a stew pan twice across the bottom with garlic ; put into it two ounces of butter, an onion, a carrot, and half a head of celery sliced; one pound of lean beef, half a pound ol lean veal, an ounce of lean ham, two mushrooms, two truffles, one clove, a quarter of an inch of mace, four white peppercorns, a teaspoonful of loaf sugar, a saltspoouful of flour of mustard, a saltspoonful of salt, and four sprigs of parsley. Let it stand by the side of the fire for an hour, to brown the meat and extract the gravy ; add a quart of warm water, and simmer gently (skimming frequently) for three houi’s and a half. Mix a table- spoonful of baked flour with a wineglassful of white wine, and stir it. Boil fast, and skim for twenty minutes ; then strain ; place the turkey on a hot dish; puU oiit the skewers; pour a little gra'vy into the dish (not over the turkey), and the remainder into a tm-een, and send to table immediately. Note.—Truffles (four thinly sliced) will improve the stuffing. Simple veal stuffing or pork sausagemeat may be used where expense and time are of consequence. 333. ROAST FOWL, WITH GRAVY AND BREAD SAUCE. Put the fowl in a sheet of white paper thickly spread with fresh lard (two ounces) ; hang it before a good fire ; close for the first ten minutes, then at a distance till done ; baste frequently ; ten minutes before serving, take off the paper, and baste with dis- solved butter (two ounces). Spring chickens require half an hour; a moderate-sized fowl, fifty minutes ; and a capon, an hour and a quarter. Place the fowl on a hot dish, pull out the skewers, and serve with or without gra'\’y in the dish, but with gravy in a tureen and bread-sauce, both made as follows ;—Put into a small stew- pan an ounce of butter, an onion, sliced, four slices of carrot, three slices of celery, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, and three- quarters of a pound of gravy beef; simmer gently over the fire till the whole is nicely browned ; then add a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, a saltspoonful of salt, one clove, and a pint and a half