VEGETABLES. 172 in cold -water for two hours. Put them into boiling -.vater, with two tablespoonfuls of salt, and boil rapidly (uncovered) for twenty minutes; drain in a colander; press a hot plate on them to force out the water. Place them neatly on a dish, and serve quite hot. 458. CABBAGE. Summer cabbage should be .small and light; Avinter cabbage of moderate size, firm bitt not hard. Trim off the outer leaves and stem, and divide the cabbage into four quarters; wash care- fully, and leave it in cold Avater, Avith a handful of salt in it, for tAvo hours. Put it into fast-boihng Avater, Avith a tablespoonful of salt, and boil rapidly (uncoA-ered) for tAventy minutes for a sum- mer, half an hoiu- for a Avinter cabbage, and forty minutes for a large savoy ; drain in a colander, press out the Avater Avith a plate. Place the cabbage neatly on a dish, and serve quite hot. 459. STUFFED CABBAGE. Have a moderate-sized young firm cabbage, trim and well Avash it; put it hito warm Avater Avith a handful of salt and a wine- glassful of vinegar, and let it remain tAvo hours. Make a stufllng as follows:—Three-quarters of a pound of pork sausage meat, a quarter of a potmd of beef or veal suet, finely chopped, fom: shalots and four sprigs of parsley, finely chopped, the peel of half a lemon, grated, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, a saltspoou- ful of mixed SAveet herbs, in poAvder, half a sidtspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of floui- of mustard, and one Avell-beaten egg; all Avell mixed together; cut the stem off the cabbage, and Avith a sharp knife scoop out sufficient of the heart to make space for the stuffing ; press in the stuffing, bind the cabbage Avith a piece of tape; put it into a stewpan, Avith three-quarters of a pint of any stock, or gravy, and tAvo ounces of butter (on the cabbage) ; simmer gently for three hours and a half; add the strained juice of tAvo large lemons ; take off the tape, and serA’e at once, Avitli the gi-avy in the dish. 460. SALADS GENERALLY USED. Cos lettuces, cabbage lettuces, endive, beetroot (boiled), celery, cucumber, spring onions, shalots, Avatercresses, radishes, tarragon, chervil, chives, mustard and crcs.s, t.vc. Every kind of salad must