PLAIN COOKING. 274 816. BAKED APPLE DUMPLIXGS. Pare five or six apples; scoop out the core; fill the vacancy with moist sugar. Make a paste Avith half a pound of fi^ dripping and three-quarters of a pound of flour; divide it into five or six parts; roll out, and cover each apple with paste; press it, so as to make it the same thicknes.s all round; place them in a tin dish, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. 817. BOILED APPLE DUMPLIKGS. Make the dumplings exactly as directed in the preceding re- ceipt (using suet, if preferred), leaving out the sugar. Tie each in a small cloth, and boil an hour and a quarter. Turn them out carefully, and serve, with small pats of butter on a plate. 818. PLUM PUDDING, PLAIN, WITHOUT EGGS. Six ounces of flotn’; four ounces of crumbs of bread; six ounces of raisins, stoned; four ounces of currants, washed and rubbed in a coarse cloth ; half a pound of suet, chopped ; three tablespoonfuls of treacle; the grated rind and strained juice of a lemon; and half a gill of Avater. Mix these ingredients AveU together, grease a basin, put in the pudding, tie a cloth over, put it into boiling Avater, and boil fast for six hours. Turn out care- fully, and serve Avith loaf sugai’ sifted over. 819. APPLE PUDDING. Peel and cut the apples into quarters. Make a paste Avith three-qtiarters of a pound of flour, and either six ounces of suet or half a pound of dripping. Line a basin ; put in half of the apples, then three onnces of moist sugar, a small piece of lemon- peel, chopped fine, and tAVO cloves; put in the remainder of the apples. Eoll out a circular piece of pa.ste; Avet the edge; cover over the pudding ; tie it over Avith a cloth, and put it into boiling Avater; boil for three hours and a half. Loosen the edge of the paste with a knife; turn out the pudding carefully, and serve, AAnth a slice of butter on a plate. 820. RIIUBAKB PUDDING. Strip the skin off the rhubarb, and cut it into half-inch lengths. Make a paste Avith three-quarters of a pound of flour and six