clviii EEMABKS AND DIRECTIONS TO BE RE5IE5IBERED. be unavoidably delayed, everything should be taken up at the moment it is done. Boiled fish, poultry, or joints should be covered with a hot cloth, and kept over the steam, but not over the fire. Three minutes before sending to table put them into the water and boil up. Lay roast poultry or joints in the dripping-pan, and protect them from the fire by a dish ; put them into a hot oven, or rehang before the fire, for five or ten minutes before serving. Fish may be re-fi:ied. Potatoes may be mashed and browned, and other vegetables may be thrown into fast-boiling water for three or four minutes; thus a dinner need never be spoiled by a little delay. The dinner should be sent to table covered by hot covers, which should be scrupulously clean and highly polished inside and out. Pastry and puddings are better not covered, as the steam makes them heavy and spoils their appearance. Second Dressing.—The various dishes arranged firom cold fish, meat, poultry and game come under this denomination. Clearing Soup.—Fast boiling, uncovered, is the best way of clearing soup, but it sometimes fails; in this case, throw in the whites of three or four fresh eggs, and whisk it briskly for ten minutes while boiling fast; then take it off the fire, let it settle for ten minutes. Strain carefully. Sieves and Jelly hags.—Hair or tammy sieves and jeUy bags must be put into very hot water for five minutes, then dipped into cold wafer before using. The bags must be wrung out as hot as possible; attending to this will render the straining process more effectual. Moulds.—Moulds must be dipped into cold water before putting either jelly or cream into them ; and when about to turn out the contents, they must be quickly dipped into hot w'ater and wiped dry. Baked Flour.—Put one pound of fine flour into a soup plate, and bake in a cool oven till it is quite dry, but not coloured; when cold, pound it and put it into a glass jar; tie it over with paper, and keep for use, as directed in the receipts. Bake another pound in a quick oven till of a pale brown colour. M hen cold, pound it; put it into a jar, aud use when directed. Baked flour