TEAL AND HAM CUTLETS. AQNELLOTTI. 95 264. VEAL AND HAJM CUTLETS, WITH TAETAE SAUCE. • (Second dressing.) Pound three-quarters of a pound of cold roast veal and a quarter of a pound of lean ham or tongue ; season with a salt- spoonful of pepper, a qiiarter of a grain of cayenne, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, half a mustardspoonful of made mustard, a saltspoonful of anchovy-sauce, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the juice ; add a tablespoonful of veal gravy, two ounces of dissolved butter; mix well, and form the paste into neat cutlets; dip each into dissolved butter, and dredge them with dried flour; then dip them into beaten egg, and strew them with fine ci’umbs; do this twice or thrice. Place them on a tin dish, with a piece of butter the size of a nut on each, and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. Beat the hard yolks of three eggs to a powder, with half a saltspoonftd of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and a saltspoonful of flour of mustard; beat the yolk of an egg, and stir it into the rest; add, drop by drop three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, then a saltspoonful of tarragon vinegar and two dessertspoonfuls of white vinegar; beat it till in a thick cream; add a teaspoon- fill of finely chopped chives, or shalot and gherkin, if chives are not to be had. Place the cutlets round the dish, and the cold sauce in the centre. Note.—The sauce should be made two hours before serving, and put in a cool place. Cream may be used instead of oil, if preferred. 265. NEAPOLITAN AGNELLOTTI. (Second dressing.) Make a paste with six ounces of baked flour, one ounce of fresh butter, the yolks of three eggs, beaten with a -wineglassful of cold water and half a saltspoonful of salt; when well mixed, dredge the board with dried flour, and roll out the paste as thin as a shilling; set it in a cool airy place for three hours to dry. Take half a pound of cold roast veal, cut thin, two ounces of cooked ham, fat and lean, and pound in a mortar; fry in half an ounce of butter, half a clove of garlic, half a shalot, chopped fine, and a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley; add these to the meat, with the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, a saltspoonful of anchovy-sauce, a saltspoonful of white pepper, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, a tablespoonful of good gravy, a dessertspoonful of Marsala, a