GAME. 152 white pepper, a saltspoonful and a half of salt, a dessertspoonful of currant jelly, dissolved, a tablespoonful of brandy, and an ounce of dissolved butter. Mix the bread with the hare, and continue to pound till the whole is incorporated ; then add four well-beaten eggs, and beat for ten minutes with a wooden spoon: butter a mould, press in the mixture; cover it with writing paper, spread with a quarter of an ounce of butter ; tie a cloth over ; put it into plenty of boiling water, and boil fast for three- quarters of an hour. Turn out carefully and serve with the same graA^y as for roast hare. Note.—A pudding half the size may he made with t'.vo ounces of bread, half a pint of stock, six ounces of hare, one onnco of butter, and half the quantity of seasoning ; boil half an hour. 390. JUGGED HAEE. Htive a fine yoitng hare cttt into joints ; Avash and Avipe each piece and dredge it over Avith dry flonr. Peel, slice, and wash one onion, four moderate-sized mushrooms, one small carrot, half a head of celery, and six sprigs of parsley; put these into a steAv- pan Avith tAvo cloves, half an inch of mace, a sprig of thyme, a small laurel leaf, and tAvo thin slices of mild bacon (three ounces); lay the hare upon the vegetable.s, and on that put six ounces of butter in three slices. Stand the stCAvpan by the side of the fire, and let it simmer till the hare is firm and Avell-flavoured Avith the ingredients ; shake frequently. Take out the hare, strain the gravy, and skim off all the butter; lay the hai-e again in the steAvpan (leaving out the Ih-er); season Avith tAvo saltspoonfnls of salt, one saltspoonful and a half of pepper, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, and the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated ; put in the gravy; add about a pint of good stock, mixed Avith a table- spoonful of baked flour and a quarter of a pint of port Aviue; cover closely; shake the steAvpan frequently, and simmer very gently for an hour ; then lay in the forcemeat-ball.'?, made as folloAvs:—Chop the folloAving ingredients as fine as possible— The liA'er, half an ounce of lean (cooked) ham, three ounces of veal suet, enough parsley to fill a dessertspoon ; add tAvo ounces of fine crumbs of bread, tAvo .saltspoonfnls of mixed sweet herbs, a saltspoonful of pepper, the same of salt and loaf sugar, hall a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, the tenth jAart of a nutmeg,