CLAEENCE PDDDI^iG. LADY BETYl’S DELIGHT. 179 482. CLAEENCE PUDDING. Boil three-quarters of a pint of new milk with five ounces of loaf sugar, a quarter of an inch of vanilla, and the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated. When the sugar is dissolved, set it aside to cool. Beat five fresh eggs, and strain the milk over them, beating all the time; cut two French rolls into thin slices, without crust, and spread both sides with fresh butter (two ounces) ; wash half a poimd of Sultana raisins. Butter a plain mould, and stick it in lines crossing each other at the top, with raisins; lay in the bread and butter, raisins, and custard in layers, till the mould is full; let it stand for the bread to swell, tie a cloth over dredged ■with flour; put the pudding into fast-boihng water, and boil quickly for an hour and three-quarters. Serve, with the follow- ing sauce poiu’ed over. 483. VANILLA SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS. Boil two ounces of loaf sugar, and a quarter of an inch of stick vanilla in the third of a pint of water for twelve minutes ; moisten a dessertspoonful of arrowroot Avith a tablespoonful of cold water; mix them together, and boil three minutes; add two tablespoonfuls of rum. Take out the vanilla, and serve. 484. LiiDY Betty’s delight. (A good pudding.) Grate the third of a fine neAv cocoa-nut, stone six oimces of Muscadel raisins, chop a quarter of a pound of fresh beef-marrow, strain the juice and grate the rind of a small lemon, grate the sixth part of a nutmeg. Make a custard as foUoAvs ;—Boil three ounces of loaf sugar in half a pint of new milk; beat two large or three small fresh eggs ; mix them with the milk while hot, but not boiling ; add a tablespoonful of the milk of the' cocoa-nut; stir till nearly cold. Gut six very thin slices of bread, a day old (about four ounces) ; butter a plain mould thickly and stick it Avith raisins in the form of a cross. Divide all the ingredients into five parts, and lay them in the mould in the folloAving order till it is full:—Bread, marrow, raisins, cocoa-nut, lemon juice, peel, and nutmeg, custard ; finish Avith bread and custard. Ix;t it stand to soak for half an hour; tie it closely over, and boil