EOLLED JAM AMD WHITE PDHUI.NGS. 193 sugar, cover closely over witli a round piece of paste, tie a cloth over that, and boil fast for two hours and a half. Half a pound of each will make a pudding for a pint and a half basin. The fruit must be sweetened as follows, and water must never be put in the pudding :—Currants, raspberries, and cherries, half their weight of sugar; plums, rather more; and damsons, three- quarters. 532. KOLLED JAM PUDDING. Make a paste as directed in the foregoing receipt for fruit puddings; roll it out the sixth of an inch thick, and spread it with jam, leaving a quarter of an inch all round ; brush the edge with water ; roll the pudding to the form of a bolster ; press the edges to make them adhere; roll it tightly in a cloth, tie both ends, put it into last-boiling Avater, and boil rapidly for two hours. Cut it into six slices three-quarters of an inch thick, and serve at once. 533. WHITE PUDDINGS. One pound of fresh (pork ) kidney fat, chopped, half a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of ground rice, half a pound of loaf sugar, half a pound of currants, well Avashed, tAvo ounces of sAveet, and eight bitter almonds, blanched and chopped, tAvo ounces of orange and tAA'o ounces of lemon-peel (candied), chopped, the fourth part of a nutmeg, gi'ated, half a saltspoonful of salt, tAvo eggs, and a gill of neAv milk; beat these ingredients Avell together for tAvcnty minutes : put the mixture into pig skins that have been Avell cleansed, leav'ing room for the pudding to SAvell, tie both ends, put them into boiling Avater, and boil sloAvly lor tAvo hours and a half. Seiwe hot or cold; in either case, remove the skin. "When made for keeping, hang them up separately ; and when required, put them into hot Avater and boil up sloAvly for ten minutes. 534. ALMOND AND BREAD PUDDING. Blanch three ounces of SAvcet and four bitter almonds, and boil them ten minutes in half a pint of milk; then pound them to a paste. Chop four ounces of beef-marroAV, beat tAvo eggs, and add to the milk the almonds Averc boiled in ; rub three ounces of bread a day old to cnimbs; mix these ingredients together; 0