HINTS TO SERVANTS. 325 dusters, &c. but for what they are intended ; and do not put them, away wet, as they cause a fusty smell, and will become mildewed. Render a strict account of all money expended for your em- ployers. Chimneys.—The kitchen chimney should be swept every five weeks. The discomfort on those occasions may be much lessened by arranging the hour according to the habits of the family. The ‘ upstairs work ’ should be done before the sweep aixives, and that should be one hour before the family breakfast. A fire should be lighted elsewhere; and after sending up the breakfast, the cook can remain in the kitchen till the cleaning is finished. Other chimneys are generally swept once a year (in May) ; but the dining-room, if constantly used, will require sweeping in December also. To Clean Varnished Paper Walls.—Wring a soil linen cloth out of very hot water (ivithoid either soap or soda), and rub the w'all quickly (a small piece at the time) ; wipe it dry, and polish with a clean soft wash-leather. Cisterns.—The Avater shoirld be drawn off once a fortnight, and the cisterns should be cleaned out three times a year or ofteuer. Filter.—The sponges should be washed in two or three Avaters, and the filter should be Avell rinsed out once a Aveek. Decanters.— Decanters and Avater-bottles should be cleaned with tea leaves and a bottle bnish, and Avell rinsed Avith cold Avater, then turned upside doAvn to drain. Be carefi.il never to use soda, or any acid, it makes them look thick, cloudy, and white, instead of clear and brilliant. China and Glass. Tavo clean tubs should be kept expressly for china and glass. Wash it Avell in Avarm Avater, and rinse in plenty of cold, and Avipe Avith clean soft cloths. Be careful to keep the handles of cup.s and jugs clean. To take off tea stains use a little silver .sjind, or .salt, but never .soda. Tea Urns.—When about to send the urn to table, nearly fill it Avkh fast boiling water, put on the circular shelf, put in the heater, Avhich must be quite red hot, put the small lid over it, put on the lid of the urn, and rub it quickly over Avith a Avash- leather, that there may be no du.st upon it. When taken aAvay, take out the heater, draAv off the Avater, Avipe the inside quite dry, and polish the outside Avith a AA’a.sh-leather.