POULTRY. 126 330. BONED TUEKEY, STUFFED WITH TONGUE AND FOECEMEAT. Boil a small pickled tongue slowly for three hours; skin it and trim off the root, leaving only a portion of the fat. Make a stuffing as in the preceding receipt, send them both to the poulterer to be put into the turkey. Then foUow the preceding receipt in all things. 331. TUEKEY’S LEGS, BEOILED. (Second dressing.) Score the meat of the legs at half-inch distances, and three- quarters of an inch deep. Mix a saltspoonfiil of white pepper, a quarter of a .saltspoonful of cayenne, a mustardspoontul of fresh- made mustard, a saltspoonful of salt, a piece of garlic the size of a split pea, and the strained juice of a lemon; well mix this seasoning, and rub it into the divisions and over the legs. Place them on a gridiron over a bright fire, and broil for twenty minutes at a distance; turn them that they may be nicely bro-wned all over. Place the legs on a hot dish, rub each over A^ith half an ounce of butter, and send to the table very hot. Note.—Every receipt given for fowls may be followed for turkeys. 332. TUEKEY, STUFFED AND EOASTED. Make a stuffing as follows:—Scrape half a pound of lean pork, a quarter of a pound of lean veal, two oimces of lean ham, and half a potmd of beef-suet; rub Uvo oimces of crumb of bread to powder; chop sufficient parsley to fill a tablespoon; mix these together. Season ivith the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, the grated peel of a lemon, a saltspoonful of ivhite pepper, a grain of cayenne, a saltspoonful of loaf sugar, a saltspoonful and a half of salt, and two saltspoonfuls of mixed sweet herbs in fine powder. Put the Avhole into a mortar, and pound till in a smootli paste; add three ivell-beaten eggs, leaving out one white, and the strained juice of a lemon ; Avhen ivell mixed, fill the crop of the turkey; fasten the skin loosely over; put the remainder in the body ; cover it with sheets of white paper, thickl}’^ spread with butter or lard (half a pound). Hang it before a large fire, near for tlie first twenty minutes, then at a distance till done ; baste