55 LOBSTEE. POTTED SHBIMPS. MUSCLES. 162. POTTED LOBSTEE. The lobsters must be quite fresh. Take out the meat and poimd it to a smooth paste ; season (to half a pound) with a saltspoonful of good anchovy-sauce, three-quarters of a saltspoon- ful of white pepper, a grain of cayenne, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, and three ounces of dissolved butter. Pound till well mixed, then press the lobster into pots, or a small pie-dish, and pour over two ounces of dissolved butter. When the butter is set, it is ready for use. 163. POTTED SHEIMPS. Take off the shells of three quarts of fresh-boiled shrimps; season with the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, two grains of cayenne, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, dissolved. Press the shrimps into pots or a small pie-dish; poui’ over the top two oimces of dissolved butter. When firm they are fit for use. Another way, and sometimes preferred, is to pound the shrimps to a paste, add the seasoning, and finish as directed. 164. MUSCLES, PLAIN BOILED. Clean the shells with a brush, remove the weed, and wash the muscles in several waters. Put them into a large saucepan, with two tablespoonfuls of salt (no water), shake the pan till they are done, which is known by the shells opening. If to be served plain, turn them into a tureen, and send them to table quite hot. 165. SCOLLOPED MUSCLES. Boil them as directed in the foregoing receipt. Pull out the weed from each muscle (it will be found under the black^ongue); season (to one pound) with a saltspoonful of pepper, the sixth parU of a nutmeg, grated, the grated rind of half a lemon, and a grain of cayenne. Put four ounces of crumb of bread, one day old, into a clean cloth, and rub it to fine dust; season with half a saltspoonful of salt, and the same of pepper. Put a layer of crumbs into a flat dish, place the muscles on them, pom- over an ounce of dissolved butter, cover closely with crumbs, add three tablespoonfnls of the muscles’ liquor, dropped equally