262 PLAIN COOKING. add two ounces of dripping and a teacupful of boiling milk; place the potatoes on a flat dish ; put the head on the potatoes ; sprinkle over a saltspoonful of salt, half the quantity of pepper.' and a tablespoonful of fine crumbs of bread. Put about an ounce of dripping in small pieces on the head to baste it; put it into a quick oven, and bake half an hour. Serve in the same dish it is baked on. The potatoes and the head should both be a nice brown coloru-. Take out the herbs, skim off* all the fat, and serve the bai'ley broth in a tureen. 778. TO CLARIFY DRIPPING. Put the dripping into a saucepan of cold water, and let it stand by the side of the fire till dissolved; then boil up for a quarter of an hour, and pour it into an earthen pan; when cold, break it into pieces, squeeze out aU the water, and put the di-ipping into a bright saucepan; boil and skim for ten minutes; strain into a pan. Note.—Dripping thus clarified is fit for almost any \ise; for frying fish and making family pastry, it will be found as good as butter or lard. 779. FILLET OP VEAL, STUFFED AND ROASTED. !Make a stuffing as follows:—Chop fine a quarter of a pound of beef-suet and three sprigs of parsley; rub through a wire sieve an ounce and a half of crumb of bread ; beat one egg with a table- spoonful of milk or water ; mix these togetlier ; add a saltspoonfiil of mixed sweet herbs, in fine powder, half a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, the tenth part of a nutmeg, the grated peel of half a lemon ; place the stuffing under the flap ; secure it by two or three skewers ; spread a sheet of white paper thickly with good dripping, tie it over the veal, and hang it before a good fire, for the fii-st quarter of an hour near, then withdraw it to double the distance you would roast either beef or mutton ; baste constantly and let it roast very slowly, allowing twenty-eight minutes to the pound (and in frosty weather half an hour). Half an hour before serving, take off* the paper, dredge the veal slightly with baked flour; put it nearer the fire, and baste it well. Knead a table.spoonful of baked flour with an ounce of butter and a salt- spoonful of salt; stir into it half a pint of boiling water ; boil ten minutes; pour oil’ the dripping ; add the gravy that has dripped