96 VEAL. tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, and one well-beaten egg, continue to pound till the ingredients are well mixed and the forcemeat is quite smooth. Cut the paste into pieces three inchc-s square; brush each over with beaten egg, and put in a good des- sertspoonful of the meat; turn one corner over, and press round the edge, to make the paste adhere. They must be formed in triangular ‘ turnovers.’ When finished, drop one by one int<i a quart of boiling water, with a dessertsjjoonful of salt in it, and simmer for five minutes ; drain on a sieve. Put into a saucepan a teacupful of good veal gravy, a saltspoonful of anchovy-sauce, a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, a mustardspoonful of fresh- made mustard, a wineglassful of Marsala or sherry, two table- spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and two ounces of butter ; .stir for five minutes over the fire. Place the agnellotti neatly on a dish, pour over the gravy, sprinkle the top over with a table.spoon- ful of cheese, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Serve on the .same dish. 266. VEAL CUTLETS. About one pound and a quarter of fillet of veal, cut the third of an inch thick; cut it into nine or ten oblong pieces, all of the same size; trim off the skin, fat, and the corners; dip each piece into dissolved butter (two ounces), and dredge it lightly with baked flour; let them stand ten minutes; then dip them again into the butter, and strew over both sides some very fine crumbs of bread; fry in six ounces of boiling butter, at a distance from the fire, for twenty minutes: they must be of a pale brown coloiu on both sides. Strain the butter, and mix into it a de.ssertspoonful of baked flour, the strained juice of a lemon, half a saltspoonful of salt, and half a gill of boiling water ; boil up, skim, and simmer ten minutes (in the frying pan) ; ten or twelve button mush- rooms may be added with improvement. Poll nine or ten thin rashers of bacon, off the ribs, put a skewer through them, and roast in a Dutch oven before the fire, Avhile the cutlets are frying; place the veal and bacon alternately round tlie dish, and the sauce in the centre. Serve very hot. 267. VEAL CUTLETS IX PAPER. (Maintenon.) Mix together the following ingredients:—An ounce of bread crumbs, two ounces of fat bacon, a small shalot, a good .sprig of