300 PRESERVPIS. them float in, till quite tender ; drain, and when cold, dip them into brandy. Dissolve (slightly) loaf sugar with the water the rings were boiled in; boil, and skim, till it becomes a rich thick syrup; dip each ring in twice, and place them on a wire sieve to dry. Boil up the syrup, and dip the rings in while hot, but not boiling; do this twice a day till they become candied—one pound of loaf sugar for one dozen of oranges. The sugar that is left may be put into rum, and kept for flavouring puddings. Candied rings should be made at the same time as jelly or punch, when the fruit would be available. 904. PKESERVED CHESTNUTS. Take olF the shell and skin of some fine chestnuts; throw them into cold water to blanch; then boil them slowly in plenty of water for ten minutes; drain ; take the same weight of loaf sugar as chestnuts; put it into an enamelled saucepan, -with half a gill of •water to every pound ; boil and skim till in a bright syrup; put in the nuts and boil for ten minutes; put them into a basin, pour the syrup ovei’, and let them remain for twenty-four hours. Pour off the syrup, boil it for five minutes, pour it again over the nuts, and let them remain till the following day. Then boil the syrup iiist for ten minutes; put the nuts in carefully; boil ten minutes more; skim ; then put them into jars, and when cold, tie them over. 905. COCOA-NUT CANDY. Grate the cocoa-nuts ; strain the milk ; take the same weight of loaf sugar as cocoa-nut; put it into an enamelled saucepan with the milk; boil and skim; then put in the cocoa-nut, and stir till it becomes a paste ; turn it on to a dish, and when cold, ctit it into square pieces. Should be kept in a wooden box. 906. NORMANDY PIPPINS. Nine pippins w'ill make a nice little dish; let them be all of the same size. Wash them; put them into a brass skillet ■with sufficient cold water to cover them, boil up and simmer for .a quarter of an hour ; drain on a sieve, and let them get cold. Cut oil’ the thin yellow j'jcel of one lemon, half of a Seville orange, and one sweet orange ; expre.ss and strain the juice. Wipe out