•228 rUDDINGS, PASTBV, JKLUI>’, CKEAM, ETC. 657. SAVOUKY EGGS. Break four or five, eggs into a basin; season with a grain of cayenne, a quarter of a saltspoonful of white pepper, half a salt- spoonful of salt; beat them well. Rub a small saucepan twice across the bottom with garlic; put in two ounces of butter, and when it is boiling hot put in the eggs. Stir quickly till done (about four minutes). Trun on to a hot dish, and send to table immediately. 658. OMELETS, PLAIN OR SAVOURY. Eight yolks and four wlutes of quite fresh eggs, beaten witli three tablespoonfuls of cream or new milk. Put an ounce and a half of good butter into a small omelet-pan and let it come to boiling heat over a slow fire ; pour in the eggs, and stir them quickly till they begin to set; when sufficiently firm, fold it over in three and send to table immediately. Care must be taken that the heat used be gentle, or the butter will discolour, and the omelet will be brown, which it should not be. It must not be too much done either, or it wiU be hard (four or five minutes will be quite enough). To make a savoury omelet merely add to the eggs, while beat- ing them, a grain of cayenne, three-quarters of a saltspoonful of white pepper, and a saltspoonful and a half of fine salt. A herb omelet. Add (as -well as the seasoning) a teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, half a saltspoonful of chopped chives or shalot, and a saltspoonful of mixed SAveet herbs in fine powder. A ham, tongue, hung-beef, or cheese omelet. Add four tablespoonfuls of either, grated, and a teaspoonful of mustartl, :md omit the other seasoning. 659. SAVOURY MACARONI. (Genoa receipt.) Put into an enamelled saucepan eight ounces of Genoa maca- roni, three pints of cold water, and a dessertspoonful of .salt; place it over a gentle fire and simmer for twenty minutes, then drain on a sieve. Put the macaroni again into the saucepan with a quart of stock (No. 2), and simmer till it is quite tender (about an hour and three-quarters); stir in an ounce of butter, three ounces of grated Parmesiui cheese, two teas{x»onfuls of Hour