MADEIllA, GUERNSEY, AND AMSTERDAJt PUDDINGS. 189 517. MADEIRA PUDDING. Beat five ounces of fresh butter to cream ; add to it a quarter of a pound of dry sifted flour, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar in powder, four beaten eggs, and a quarter of a pound of citron cut into half-inch pieces ; beat for ten minutes. When the ingre- dients are well mixed, butter a mould, stick the top with thin .slices of citron (two ounces); jmt in the pudding, tie it closely over, and boil in plenty of water, as fast as possible, for an hour and a half. Turn out carefully, and serve, with sifted sugar over the top. 518. GUERNSEY PUDDING. Peel, core, and quarter six moderate-sized apples; put them into a saucepan, with half a pound of loaf sugar, the thin rind of a lemon, two cloves, an inch of cinnamon, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, and a Avineglassful of Avhite wine. Boil fast, and stir till they become a rich marmalade ; then take out the spice and peel, and put the apples in a basin to cool. Wash three ounces of the best rice, and boil twenty-five minutes in a pint of new milk; drain; sweeten the rice with two ounces of sifted sugar. Cut into shreds six ounces of mixed candied peel; beat five fresh eggs, whites and yolks separately. Mix aU the ingi-edients together, adding the whites (well frothed) last; beat ten minutes. Make a puIF paste, line a plain mould, put in the mi.xture, and bake in a moderate oven an hour and a quarter. Turn out carefully, and serve. # 519. AMSTERDAM PUDDING. Half a pound of sweet, and six bitter almonds, blanched and pounded to paste, half a pound of fresh butter, beaten to cream, half a pound of loaf sugar, clarified by boiling in the juice of two oranges, a quarter of a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped, a quarter of a pound of mixed candied peel, chopped, half a pound of sweet apples, chopped, a quarter of a pound of cur- rants, washed and rubbed dry, half a pound of orange marma- lade, half a pint of thick cream, a wineglas.«ful of Scliiedam, and six fresh eggs, well beaten. Mix the almonds, butter, half of the sugar, the cream, and eggs, and beat till in a smooth soft paste. Mix all the fruit together; add the remainder of the