KITCHEN STORES. HINTS TO SERTANTS. 323 for the year in June, when they are cheap. In a house where three fires are in daily use, besides the kitchen, during the winter months, eleven tons will be consumed. Wood for lighting fires, at 4s. ahundi'ed, 10c/. a week during the winter. Gas always in use may be reckoned at 19s. a burner by the year. 991. KITCHEN STORES. Stores for the week :—Baked flour, dried or prepared crumbs of bread, garlic, shalots, onions, black onions (see receipt), burnt sugar, stock, glaze, salt, mustard, pepper, cayenne, all kinds of spice, dried herbs, vinegar, oil, string, pud ding-cloths, paper for roasting, paper for fried fish, &c.; fish napkins, plenty of clean towels, oatmeal, groats, flour, split peas, which must be kept in w'ood, dripping, lard, butter, eggs, &c. &c. A cook shoifld always have the foregoing articles in readiness. She should also have •weights and scales at hand ; hammer, nails, screw-driver, pincers, &c. &c. 992. HINTS TO SERVANTS. In small establishments, where only two house servants are kept, the ■work is generally divided thus:—The cook takes the dining-room, library, hall, steps, kitchen stairs, kitchen, larder, and all offices below; the housemaid, all above the hall, her p.antry, plate, china, and glass. Early rising will be found to add much to the comfort both of employers and servants. The work should be arranged in such a Avay that each day brings the same amount of labour. Every room and office should be thoroughly cleaned once a week, and a day set apart for each. On those occa.sions, windows and sills should be cleaned, curtains brushed, and marks taken off paint. In bedrooms, mattresses and beds beaten and brushed, and the boards under the bed scrubbed. By doing this, the house is always clean, and with Amry little labour. Both servants should be clean and neat in their Avork. Things to he Remeinhered. — Answer bells immediately. Be careful not to drop lucifers about the house ; never strike them on the Avail. Shut windows in foggy Aveather. Be careful to fasten all doors and AvindoAvs at night. ■ Do not let strangers into the house. Do not put jJate A\’here it can be seen by passers-by. Should any unpleasant smell ari.se from sink or other drains, throw