226 PUDDINGS, PASTBY, JELLIES, CBEAM, ETC. of water; mix this with the rest, add a wineglassful of whiskey or gin, and strain through a jelly-bag. Put the jelly into a mould or moulds, and let it stand in a cool place tUl set, or on ice for an hoitr. 649. OKANGE JELLY. Follow the preceding receipt, using three lemons, four sweet oranges, and one Seville orange, instead of ‘ eight lemons; ’ and nun or brandy instead of ‘ whiskey or gin.’ 650. PUNCH JELLY. The following ingredients will be required for a quart-mould: —Ten ounces of loaf sugar, five lemons, one Seville and three sweet oranges, a slice of pineapple, a wineglassful of Madeira (or rich brown sherry), three wineglassfuls of rum, half a wine- glassful of brandy, a tablespoonful of noyeau, an oimce and three- quarters of isinglass, a teaspoonful of fine green tea, and a pint of water. Pour the water, boiling, over the tea, and let it infuse for twenty minutes, then strain through muslin; rub the sugar . on the rinds of the Seville orange and the lemons, to extract the essence; bruise the pineapple, and press out the juice; express and strain the juice of all the oranges and lemons ; put the sugar and the juice into the tea, boil up, skim carefully, add the isinglass, and stir rapidly till it is quite dissolved, then strain through a jeUy-bag ; add the spirits and wine, pour the mixture from one basin to another rapidly, to soften the flavour; put it into a mould, and let it remain in a cool place till set, or an hour on ice will improve it. Note.—Calf-foot’s stock may be used. In this case, three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass will be sufficient. 651. GRAPE JELLY. Dissolve half a pound of loaf sugar and an ounce and a quarter of isinglass in half a pint of water; add to this three-quarters of a pint of the strained juice of ripe grapes, a few drops of burnt sugar, and a wineglassful of bn^ndy. Ornament the top of a motild with fine grapes, strain the jelly till bright, pour it into the mould, and let it remain in a cold place till firmly set, or put it on ice for an hour.