145 BOILED AND BRAISED PHEASANT. 371. BOILED PHEASANT, WITH CELERY SAUCE. The pheasant must be trussed as a foAvl for boiling. Put it into a stewpan, breast uppermost, and cover it with new milk (about three pints) ; boil up quickly, then simmer as gently a.s possible till done : a small young bird, thirty minutes; a large one, fifty minutes ; and an old one, an hour; in each case from the time of boiling up. Wash and slice a fine head of white celery, and boil till quite soft in three-quarters of a pint of milk ; rub it through a fine sieve; put it back into the saucepan, boil quickly for ten minutes, then stir in half a gill of thick cream. Seiwe a little over the phea.sant, and the rest in a tureen. Note.—Reserve the milk in an earthen pan for soup.—See ‘ Economical ’ and other receipts. Reserve the pheasant hones also. .372. BRAISED PHEASANT AND BEEF, WITH CHESTNUTS. Have ready one ponnd and a half of tender rump steak, three- quarters of an inch thick, a pheasant trussed for boiling, four slices of good bacon, a carrot, a small head of celery, shalots, garlic, butter, fifteen good chestnuts, dnd a lemon. Scald the chestnuts, and take off the skin ; throw them into cold water to blanch ; scoop the carrot into small balls, peel four shalots, slice the best part of the celery ; make a stewpan hot, and rub it five times across with fre.sh-cut garlic; put in two ounces of butter, the steak, the carrot, shalot, and celery; season with a salt.spoonful of loaf sugar, a saltspoonful and a half of white pepper, a saltspoon- ful of Hour of mustard, a teaspoonful of soy, a teaspoonful of good anchovy-sauce, and a dessertspoonful of mushroom-ketchup. Put three slices of bacon on the beef; place the chestnuts round; pour over three-quarters of a pint of any stock or water; knead together two ounces of butter, three ounces of fine crumbs of bread, a quarter of a saltspoonful of «ilt, half a saltspoonful oi‘ pepper, half a grain of cayenne, and the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated; pres.s this into the body of the phea,sant; cover the breast with writing paper, thickly spread with butter (three ounces); over that lay a slice of fat bacon ; juit in the pheasant, brea.st uppermost, and simmer as gently as po.ssible for three liours (after it comes to boiling heat). Take off the paper, pull out tlic skewers, strain a teacupftil of the gravy over the phea.s;int. L