CAKE.S. 238 caraway seeds, a gi-ain of cayenne, and a saltspoonful of white pepper ; add two fresh eggs beaten witli a tablespoonful of brandy. Make a dough as follows :—Rub si.x ounces of lard into one pound of flour, add a saltspoonful of salt; moisten with the third of a pint of tepid water, with a small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in it; knead to a dough; roll out the third of an inch thick, and line a long plain cake tin; press the comers, that the crast may be of equal thickness all over; put in the fruit, press it down closely ; cover over with dough ; notch the edge round with a knife, and bake in a slow oven for nearly three hours. When cold, turn it out of the tin. 690. SCOTCH SHORT-BREAD. Put into a basin half a pound of dry sifted flour, a quarter of a poimd of rice flour, a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, an ounce of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, and three- quarters of a pound of fresh butter ; rub the ingredients together tin the butter is well mixed in. Add two ounces of candied orange peel, chopped small, and the yolks of two sma7Z fresh eggs; knead to a firm smooth paste, roll out the third of an inch thick, and cut it into four square cakes ; notch round the edge with a knife, prick them over with a skewer, strew the top with large caraway comfits, and bake, upon paper, in a moderate oven till of a Dale brown colour all over; about three quartern of an hoiu. 691. SODA SCOPES. Rub five ounces of fresh lard into ten ounces of dry flour; add half a saltspoonful of salt; moisten with a gill of tepid water, or milk, Avith half a saltspoonfiil of carbonate of soda dissolved in it; knead to a paste; roll out half an inch thick, and cut it into four triangular pieces. Bake over the fire on a girdle, or on a thick frying-pan, about eighteen minutes. Cut through the centre, and spread them wuth good butter. Serve A'ery hot. 692. GINGER-BREAD NETS. One pound of sifted flour, three-quarters of an ounce of finely- poAvdered ginger, the grated rind of a lemon, and Aa'c ounces of n-ood butter. Rub the butter into the flour, then add the strained O