2 OlMNIONS OF THE PrESS. 3 ‘ Ladies who desire to have always at hand an accomplished puide in domestic aflTaira to discourse to them, clearly and pleasantly, on all subjects appertaininK to cookery proper, and to initiate them into the more recondite mysterv'es of the kitchen—such as the making: of jellies, creams, and the hundred other subtleties which constifute the arcana, the fine arts, of housewife lore—should obtain a work recently published, entitled “TlieToung: Housewife’s Daily Assistant in all Matters relating to Cookery and House- keeping.” It is of the most practical kind, and contains bills of family fare for every- day in the year, also twelve bills of fare for dinner parlies and two for evening enter- tainments, with the cost annexed. Many of the receipts are new, and all of them have been tested and served on the table of the authoress, under her direct supervision. It adds greatly to the practical value of the book to know that the whole of the cookery receipts in it have been successfully used with the aid of an ordinary range and the appli- ances usually found in the kitchen of a small establishment. In each case the quantity of every ingredient used is carefully given, as well as the exact time required in cooking. In addition to the large amount of valuable culinary information contained in the work, the authoress has introduced a variety of other receipts, and suggestions for the manage- ment of a house and servants, including items for invalids, and hints on all kinds of domestic matters.’ Illustrated Lo.ndo.v News,/'eft. 6, 18&I. ‘ “ Cre-Fydd” has presented the public with a very useful book; especially valuable to “ persons about to marry” on a moderate income. Not only does the author give many excellent receipts in simole language, purposely adapted to the comprehenHon of the idainest of “ plain cooks,” but she also provides bills of fare sufficient for every emer- gency. We find breakfasts and dinners, for the guidance of young and iuexperienc^ housekeepers, for every day in the year, of a description which, without being extrava- gant, ought to suffice to keep in good humour the most epicurean of husbands. We have in addition bills of fare for dinner-parties, with the precise sum which should be spent on each entertainment.’ Athen.sum, Jan. 16, lS6l. 5 ‘ This carefully written book is a model for utility and good sense. It gives precisely the kind of information which is useful to the housewives who manage professional homes; contains a bill of fare for a small family, servants included, for every day in the year; and the text amply fulfils the author’s statement that “the materials suggested are reasonably economical, the quantities exact, and the directions plain.” A chapter is devoted to “ Items for Invalids,” which the medical man, often sorely puzzled to prescribe a fitting diet for feeble stomachs and morbidly delicate palates, will find serviceable; but the work is likely to be most useful in his own home by way of adding to his own gastro- nomic comforts and enlarging his bill of fare—and no other bills.’ The L.ancet, March 26, 1864. 6 ‘ Few matters are of more social and sanitary importance than the preparation of our food, and such a book as the one before us is consequently of inestimable value in setting us right upon the many points connected with this subject. It is clearly and sensibly written, and is thoroughly practical. We especially commend to the notice of our readers the “ Items for Invalids,” amongst which will be found many little delicacies for the sick chamber. “ A few things worth knowing,” “ Hints to Mistresses,” and “ Hints to Ser- vants,” are well written, and treat of matters of vital importance, as regards the comfort of every household. We have very great pleasure in endorsing all that has been said in the numerous favourable notices of this book which have appeared in different pro es- Eional and other journals.’ ^ Medical Mirror, .4/»r»7 1864. ‘ The receipts have the merit of each being perfect in itself, without references and cross-references to ethers, which is often perjile.xing to the novice, and always tedious and troublesome. All French terms have been avoided; and as “Cre-fydd’s” establish- ment seems to have consisted only of two female servants, and the usual appliances found in the kitchen of such an establishment have been sufficient to prepare all the dishes set lortli, the whole of these receipts will be found suitable to persons of moderate income, whose position in life demands from them a due regard to its conventionalities.’ The Header, .fiiM. 16, 1864. 8 ‘ The receipts are practically available for the moderate and economical, yet reasonably luxurious, housekeeper. They have been tested and served on ^he fable of the authoress, and passed the ordeal of fastidious and critical palates. The quantity of everv ingredient used is carefully given, as well ns the exact time required for cooking. Cre-Fydd has in this way done good service to her countrywomen and their husbandt. „ Notes AND Queries, .fan. 30, 1861,