87 RUlir STEAK. POTTED BEEF. OX PALATES. ■ivith two saltspoonfiils of salt, a saltspoonftil and a half of pepper; grease the edge of a ten-inch pie-dish, lay in the steah, add half a gill of gravy or water, with a teaspoonful of Oude-sauce in it. Make a paste as follows :—Moisten half a pound of floiu' with half a gill of cold Avater and the juice of half a lemon ; knead to a firm paste; lay it flat on the boai'd, put in seven ounces of good butter, roll out four times; each time dredge it slightly with flour; let it stand two hours in a cool place. Take a sixth part of the paste, roll it out, and line the edge of the dish; moisten it Avith water, roll out the remainder to the size of the dish, put it over, press round the edge Avith the thumb; trim Avith a sharp knife, notch at inch distances; make a hole in the centre, oi-na- ment to fancy, and bake in a moderate oven for tAvo hours and a quarter. Seiwe immediately. 245. EUMP STEAX PUDDING. Prepare and season the steak as directed in the preceding receipt; make a paste Avith half a pound of flour, and seven ounces of beef-suet, finely chopped. Grease a pint pudding- basin, lay in the paste; press it to an equal thickness all round ; put in the steak and the gi'avy or water, cover over with a cir- cular piece of paste; press it to make it adhere ; tie a cloth over; put it into boiling Avater, and boil for four hours. Turn out carefully, and serve immediately. 246. POTTED BEEP. Take underdone cold roast beef, any part; cut off the fat, gristle, and outside pieces; poimd in a mortar till in a paste ; to one pound of beef add a saltspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of anchovy-sauce, a saltspoonful of Avhite pepper, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, a mustard- spoonful of fresh-made mustard, a tablespoonful of beef gravy, and three ounces of dissolved butter; press it into a raised pie- dish or pots; smooth over the top with a knife, and pour over an ounce of dis.solved butter. To be kept in a cool place. 247. OX PALATES, STEWED. Take two palates; put them into hot water for an hour; Avash them in three Avaters, toke off the black skin, and cut each palate