29 SAUCE SUPREME. FRIED COD AND OYSTERS. one fresh egg, brusli the fish over with the egg, and dredge it with the crumbs. Slice an onion and a carrot, and put them into a tin disli with a small cupful of water and a wine- gla.ssful of vinegar. Put the fish on a drainer and place it over the vegetables, but neither the water nor the vegetables must touch the fish. Put it into a moderately heated oven, and bake about an horn-, basting it frequently with dissolved butter. When half done turn the fish, then strew over some more crumbs, and baste with the butter. When done pour the foUoAving sauce into the disli and serve. 7-5. SAUCE SUPREME. Boil the liver and the sound for ten minutes; cut the sound into half inch pieces; pound the liver with the hard yolks of fom- eggs, two anchovies (washed and boned), a grain of cayenne, a saltspoonful of pepper, a tablespoonful of capers, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, a saltspoonful of tarragon vinegar, a tablespoontld of baked flour, a tablespoonful of Cre-fydd Casu- reep* or Harvey sauce, and a teaspoonful of soy, a teaspoonful of grated horseradish, and a quarter of a pound of dissolved butter. Add half a pint of stock (No. 1), a wineglassful of Marsala, and simmer for a quarter of an hour, stii-ring till it boils. Strain ; put it again into a saucepan, put in the sound, boil up, stir in a wineglassflil of cream, and serve immediately. 76. FRIED COD AND OYSTERS. Cut the cod into slices three-quarters of an inch thick ; rub each slice with a teaspoonful of vinegar and a saltspoonful of salt, and let it remain for two hours. Wipe it dry, dredge it over with baked flour, and fry in butter, over a slow fire, eighteen or twenty minutes. Make a batter with half a pint of milk, three tablespoonfuls of baked flour, and one egg. Beat it Avell, wipe the oysters (three dozen), put them into the batter. When the cod is done, fry the oysters tor five minutes in butter, lay them rovmd the cod, pour the butter over, and seiwe at once. Fried slices of cod may also be served with two shalots, finely chopped, and the strained juice of a lemon poured over. Three slices of cod and three dozen of oysters will require half a pound of butter. Enough tb serve to si.x or eight persons. ^ See index.