326 A FEW TillNGS WORTir KNOWING. Tea-Pots,—Tea will not be good unless the inside of the tea- pot be kept bright. After use, the leaves should be taken out immediately, the pot well rinsed with boiling water, and wiped quite dry. Once a week it should be scrubbed with fine salt; the spout cleaned with a piece of whalebone, and the holes cleared out with a small skewer. Gas.—The gas should be turned off at every burner before it is turned off at the meter. The gasliers should be dusted with a brush every day, and the globes washed every week, ■i^^len the meter and gasliers are hydraulic, it is better to fill them up with water on the same day every week ; this wiU effectually prevent mistakes. Larnj)S.—The oil, cottons, and aU things used for lamps, must be kept in a warm dry place. The oil must be closely corked. Lamps should be trimmed at once, when removed from the table; they can then never be forgotten. Cut the. wick close to the burner, and quite even; be careful not to drop it into the lamp. Fill the lamp with oil, within an inch of the top. "Wipe the moutli of the lamp, the knobs, and the chimney holder; clean the chimney with a stick covered with wash-leather and a little rotten-stone; dust the foot of the lamp, and put on the glasses; care should be taken not to touch the ground side of the globe, as it would leave finger marks on it; once a month generally is enough to wash the globe; it must be perfectly dry before it is put on. Wind up the lamp ten minutes before lighting; turn up the cotton the third of an inch; light it all round -with a wax lighter; put on the chimney; the shoulder of the chimney should be half an inch above the flame; when regulated put on the globe. The cotton must be changed every four days. These directions are given for a ‘ Moderator Lamp.’ Candles.—Candlesticks should be cleaned every morning. In fixing candles, cross two pieces of paper (two inches and a half long) over the socket, and force the candle in; they will then be perfectly upright and steady, and the paper not seen. If ciindles gutter, scrape off the waste. Clocks.—Wind up clocks regularly; never turn the hands back to alter the time.