244 ITEMS FOn INVALIDS. a sprig of parsley. Omit the arrowroot, and sen'e with fresh- toasted bread, cut into small dice. Note.—The veal is good cold, eaten with salad dressed with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar, for the kitchen. * 715. CALF’S FOOT BEOTH. Split a calf’s foot, and put it into a fireproof jar, with a pint and a half of new milk and the same quantity of water, a salt- spoonful of salt, and a teaspoonfnl of .sifted sugar ; tie doivn the jar, and bake in a slow oven for eight hours. Strain through a sieve into a basin, and when cold remove the fat. This broth may be seiwed either sweet (sugar and lemon juice) or savoury (.salt and lemon juice). Note.—^The meat makes a savoury dish as follows:—Eemove all the hones, cut up the meat into small pieces, season with a shalot, finely chopped, half a saltspoonfnl of Siilt, a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, a grate of nutmeg, a quarter of the peel of one lemon, grated, the whole of the juice, strained, ten drops of tarragon vinegar; put it into a stevqiau with two ounces of butter, and stir for a quarter of an hour. Serve, either hot, or press it into a mould to serve cold at breakfast. 716. BEEF TEA. The beef must be very fresli. Take four pounds of the upper side of the round, cut it into small pieces (leave out every bit of fat), put it into a jar with a saltspoonful of salt and three pints of cold water; tie it closely down, place it in a saucepan of water, and let it boil gently for five hours. Strain and serve with fre.sh- made dry toast cut into fingers. The precaution of passing a piece of stale crumb of bread over the surface, lest there be any particle of fat, will be well observed. Note.—Boiled rice or tapioca may be added if liked. 717. MIXED ME.\T TEA. One pound of lean beef, one pound of lean veal, one pound of lean mutton, all very fresh, and cut up into small pieces. Put the meat into a bright stewpan with three pints of water, a salt- .spoonful of salt, and simmer gently, skimming often, for four liours, then strain. Twenty minutes before serving moisten a toa.spoonful of Du Barry’s Kevalenta Ai'abica with a wineglassful