134 POULTRY. fowl or a rabbit into small pieces; put it into the pan with a teaspoonful of salt, stir till Avell covered with curry powder, and simmer for half an hour; add the strained juice of a lime or lemon, and four tablespoonfuls of the milk of a cocoa-nut. Serve immediately, with plain boiled rice in a separate dish. 348. CUEEIED FOWL. (Second dressing.) Cut up about half a pound of cold fowl; stew the bones in a pint of water tUl reduced to half a gill; slice a large onion; mix three ounces of butter with a tablespoonful of ctirry powder, and fry the onion with it till browned and tender; put in the fowl (in snuvU pieces) ; add the gravy, a saltspoonful and a half of salt, and a dessertspoonlul of baked flour; simmer (stirring frequently) for twenty minutes; stir in half a gdl of thick cream and the strained juice of a lemon ; serve with a wall of plain boiled rice round the fowl; wash six oiinces of rice, put it into a quart of cold water, and bod for half an hour. Drain on a sieve before the fire, and sth- with a wooden fork to divide the grains. 349. FOWL, WITH SAVOUET MACAEOXI. (Second dressing.) Put six ounces of the best Genoa ^nacaroni into three pints of cold water, and let it remain two hours. Cut up a cold fowl, put the bones, and trimmings into a saucepan, with an onion, sliced, half a carrot, three sprigs of parsley, one clove, a teaspoonful of salt, a tcaspoonful of floiu of mustard, a dessertspoonful of grated cheese, a grain of cayenne, and a piece of garlic as big as a pea ; pour in a quart of cold water, or any light stock; bod for two hours; then strain; lay the macaroni carefully into a stewjjan, with three ounces of butter; pour over the gravy, and simmer tiU tender (about an hour and a half). Season the fowl (three quarters of a jiound) with a siiltspoonful of salt, the same of white pepper, and the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated; dredge it lightly with baked flour, and fry to a nice yehow colour (ten minutes) in olive oil (a gill) or dissolved butter (a quarter of a pound). Lay the macaroni round the dish in the form of a wall; add half a wincglassful of Marsivla to the gravy ; place the fowl in the centre; pour over the gravy, and send to table at once.