44 Fisir. yolks of two eggs, two ounces of fine crumbs of bread, a dessert- spoonful of finely chopped parsley, a sjiltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder, the tenth part of a nutmeg, gi-ated, the grated rind of half a lemon, a tablespoonful of baked flour, three ounces of butter beaten to a cream, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, a grain of cayenne, a saltspoonful of salt, and two well- beaten fresh eggs. Spread the stuffing over the eel, roll it up, beginning at the tail, bind it tightly, and sew it up in a piece of stout linen ; put it into a stewpan AS'ith an onion, sliced, a quarter of a clove of garlic, half a caiTot, sliced, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one clove, half a saltspoonftil of pepper, a saltspoonful of salt, and two ounces of butter; simmer over the fire till the butter is nearly absorbed; then add a gill of Mai-sala and half a pint of water; bod up quickly, skim, then simmer gently for forty minutes. Take out the eel, stir two dessertspooniuls of flour into the sauce; bod rapidly for ten minutes. Take off the linen, and strain the sauce over the eel. Note.—Collared eel may also be served cold, garnished ^vith aspic jelly and sliced cucumber. 127. EELS, WITH TARTAK SAUCE. Have an eel weighing a pound and a half; skin it, and cut off" the fins; put it into boiling water, with a tablespoonful of Hnegar and a teaspoonl’ul of salt, and let it remain five minutes; cut it into three-inch lengths, and roll it in a clean cloth to dry- Alake a batter as follows :—Beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix with three tablespoonfuls of baked flour; add an ounce of dissolved butter and the third of a pint of tepid Avater; beat quickly for ten minutes ; let it stand in a cool place for two or three hours. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the batter; continue to beat for ten minutes. Dip the eel into the batter; then fry it in boiling lard (enough to cover it) till of a pale brown colour (about tAventy minutes) ; drain on a cloth before the fire. Place the eel in a circular form on a cold dish, and serA’C Avith the folloAving sauce in the centre :—Rub the hard-boiled yolks of three eggs to a poAvder; add a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, half a saltspoonful of salt, half a gi'ain of cayenne, and the beaten yolk of one egg; stir in, drop by drop, four tablespoonfuls of Lucca oil, tAvo tcaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and one table-