88 BEKF. into six pieces. Put into a ste^vpan four slices of fat bacon, one onion, sliced, one carrot, sliced, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, a saltspoonful of mixed herbs, three cloves, a saltspoonful of sugar, a saltspoonful of pepper, a siiltspoonful of curr}--powder; stand it over the fire to brown the vegetables; add a pint of good stock, a tablespoonful of brandy, a tablespoonful of vinegar, put in the palates ; simmer gently for four hour;, and skim fre- quently. Take out the palates, ‘skim ofi" eveiy particle of fat, and strain the gravy. Mix a tablespoonful of rice flour with a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup and a dessertspoonful of .soy, and stir in to thicken the gravy ; put in the palates, and simmer another hour ; add a wineglassful of port wine, and serve imme- diately. 248. BOILED OX TOXGUE. If a dried tongue, soak it for twelve hom^; put the tongue into cold water, enough to Avell cover it; boil up slowly and .skim ; simmer very gently till done. A large tongue, to be well- done, wiU require six hours from the time of putting it on, and a small one, from four to five hom-s. Take off the skin, trim the fat, and cut off the rough part of the root. Have a nicely cut frill of foolscap paper, put it round the root, fasten it with two small silver .skewers, and serve. 249. EOLLED OX TONGUE. Have a fine pickled tongue ; put it into a large iron pot, and cover it with cold water; simmer gently for six hours ; take off the skin, trim off the outside of the root, and pull out tlie bones; roll the tongue, the fat inside, and press it into a round tin (a cake-tin will do) that will just contain it; put a plate over the tin with a heavy Aveight upon it, and let it remain till cold. To be served at breakfast, lunch, or supper. 250. POTTED TONGUE. Cut some (cold boiled) tongue into thin slices, a little of the fat also; pound it to a paste in a mortar. To one jx)und of tongue add a teaspoonful of fresh-made mustard, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, a saltspoonful of white pepper, a quarter cf a grain of cayenne, and two ounces of dissolved frc.sh butter;