PUDDINGS, PASTRY, JEDLIKS, CREAM, ETC. 222 (fresh or candied), chopped fine; beat with a wooden spoon till well mixed, then add half a pint of new milk ; stir over a gentle fire for ten minutes after it boils. Blanch and pound to a soft paste an ounce of sweet and seven bitter almonds. When the mixture is nearly cold, add the almonds and half a gill of thick sweet cream ; stir rapidly till quite cold. May be served in a glass dish as an accompaniment to fi-uit tarts, or may be made into tartlets as cheesecakes. It is also good, and makes a pretty' dish, placed in compartments with diflferent coloured jam or marmalade. 634. CHOCOLATE CREAM. Make a cream as directed in the preceding receipt, substituting vanilla chocolate for almonds, one ounce in fine powder. Serve in a glass dish or in glass cups. 635. NESSELRODE PUDDING. Put into an enamelled saucepan one ounce of the best isinglass, five ounces of loaf sugar, two inches of stick vanilla, and a pint of neiv milk ; boil gently for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of six fresh eggs, and stir into the milk while hot, but not boiling; stir over the fire till at boiling heat, then strain into a basin. Cut the following fruits into half-inch squares : fom- ounces of pre- served pineapple, one ounce of angelica, two ounces of candied apricots without stones, two ounces of candied cherries, two ounces of orange peel, and one ounce of ginger ; pour over the fruit either Maraschino, Cura9ao, or brandy, a wineglassful, and let it stand half an hour. Beat a pint of double cream to froth; stir it into the custard when nearly cold ; put in the fruit, and stir the mixture rajiidly for five minutes. Einse a mould in cold water; put in the pudding, and place it in a jDan, on, and sur- rounded by rough ice. Stir till it begins to set, to prevent the fruit sinking to the bottom. Let it remain till quite firm; then turn it on to a glass dish and serve immediately. Note.—The quantity given is sufficient to serve to a party of twelve or fourteen. 636. RIIEINISH CREAM. Blanch and pound to paste twelve bitter and two ounces of sweet almonds; add by degrees, while pounding, half a pint of cold water; let this stand for an hour to extract the flavour.