EGGS AND BACON. STEWED BABBIT. 271 into the fryiiigpan, pour in a gill of boiling water, add a dash of pepper and halt a saltspoonful of salt 5 shake the pan till the gravy thickens and browns; pour it over the liver and serve at once. 808. EGGS AND BACON. Ha-\e some thin rashers of bacon, the part preferred; take off the bones and skin ; put them into a fryingpan and fiy both sides brown. Break as many eggs as you have rashers, each in a sepa- rate cup, and fry one at a time. Pour the egg carefully into the fat, tilt the pan, and with a slice constantly throw the boiling fat over the egg; three minutes will suffice for each egg. Place :m egg on each rasher of bacon, and serve very hot. 809. STEWED RABBIT, STUFFED. Carefully wash the rabbit, and ti-uss it as for roasting. Boil the liver in a pint of water for ten minutes ; chop it quite line ; chop three ounces of beef-suet; take one ounce of fine crumbs of bread; mix the liver, suet, and crumbs ; add half a saltspoonful of salt, a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper, a teaspoonful of finely- chopped parsley, a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs ; mix them together with a teacupfiil of milk. Put it into the body of the rabbit, and sew it up. Place the rabbit on a dish, put three thin slices of bacon on the back, and put it into a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. Peel and slice one carrot, two onions, one leek, and two ounces of bacon ; put them into a stewpan, and fry till broAvned; stir in a tablespoonful of flour, a saltspoonful of salt, same of pepper and mustard ; add a dessertspoonful of vine- gar, and the Avater the liver was boiled in; stir till well mixed. Then lay in the rabbit and bacon, and simmer gently for an hour and a half. Baste the rabbit frequently Avith the gravy. Place the rabbit on a hot dish; cut the bacon into strips; rub the gravy and vegetables through a fine Avire sieve (skim off the fat); pour it oA'er the rabbit, and serve at once Avith the strips of bacon in the gravy. 810. RABBIT SMOTHERED WITH ONIONS. Well wa.sh the rabbit, and truss it neatly. Place it in a stcAV- pan, back upwards. Put on each side three moderate-sized onions; pour over a pint of mUk and half a pint of water, and