PLAIN COOKING. 258 constantly : a quartex’ of an hour to the pound will be required. Half an hour before serving, dredge it slightly with dried flour, and sprinkle over a saltspoonful of salt; continue to baste. Serve on a very hot dish. Pour otf the diipping; add a teacupful of boiling water to the gravy that has dripped from the mutton, and pour into the dish. Note.—If the weather be frosty, eighteen minutes must be added to the time. 7G5, KOAST SHOULDEK OF MUTTON. Cut out the vein from the under part; allow sixteen minutes to the pound, as a shoulder is generally liked tvell done; hang it before a good fire, and baste constantly. Half an hour before sex’ving, dredge it with a little dried flour, sprinkle over half a saltspoonful of salt, and continue to baste ; pour off all the fat; add a teacupfiil of boiling water to the gravy that has dripped from the mutton, pour it on the dish, and serve ver}' hot. If onion sauce be ordered, make it as follows :—Boil four onions in plenty of water, with a tea.spooixful of salt in it, for half an hour; press out the water, chop the onions quite fine, boil them small; add half an ounce of butter. Seyve in a tureen. 766. HASHED EOAST MUTTON. Peel and slice a large onion, put it into a ste^vpan, with a dessertspoonful of brown sugar and a tablespoonful of vinegar: simmer till quite bi'own. Cut into neat slices about tliree- quarters of a pound of cold roast mutton ; sprinkle over a salt- spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of black pepper, half a grain of cayenne, and two dessertspoonfuls of dried flour. Put it into the stcwpan with the onions ; pour over a quarter of a pint of either gravy or water, two tablespoonfuls of walnut-ketchup, and simmer for half an hour; shake the pan frequently. Garnish with toasted bread, cut into three-cornered sippets and placed at equal dis- tances round the hash. Serve very hot. 767. MUTTON AND POTATO PIE. Cut up about three-quarters of a pound of cold I'oast mutton, season Avith a saltspoonful of pepper and a salb^poonful ot salt. Mash two pounds of potatoes to a powder; add tlxree ounces of