186 PUDDINGS, PASTRT, JELLIES, CREAM, ETC. basin, piit in the mixture, tie a cloth over, put it into last-boiling water, and boil rapidly for three hours; or bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. Serve with the following apple cream. 506. APPLE CREAM. Dissolve two tablespoonfuls of apple jelly in two tablespoon- fuls of rum, and beat it into half a gill of cream till smooth. Serve over the pudding. 507. MELBOURNE PUDDING. Put a pint of the juice of red currants and a pound and a haK of loaf sugar into a brass skillet, and bod till quite bright; skim often 5 then put in a pint of fine raspberries and a teacupful of fine currants, whole; boil very gently for ten minutes. The fruit must not break. Cut some crumb of bread into slices a quarter of an inch thick; rub a quart plain tin mould with fi-esh butter ; cut some of the bread into triangles, and fit them into the bottom of the tin, making the points meet at the centre. Line the sides with strips of bread half an inch broad, pour in the fruit while boiling hot, and let it remain in a cool place till fiiTuly set. Serve in a glass dish, "with a pint of fresh cream or rich custard poured over. Note.—Tliis pudding should be made the day before it is wanted, or it must he put on ice for two hours. • 508. JERSEY PUDDING. Half a pound of fi-esh butter beaten to cream, a quarter of a pound of groimd rice, six ounces of sugar, a quarter of a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped, two ounces of orange-peel, chopped, one oimce of flour, and six fresh eggs, well beaten ; add three tablespoonfuls of new nulk; beat the mixture for twenty minutes. Butter a basin, put in the pudding, tie it closely over, plunge in fast-boiling water, and boU rapidly for an hoiu- and three-quarters, and serve with lemon sauce. 509. LEMON SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS. Hub the rind of two lemons with loaf sugar, three ounces, to imbibe the essence. Put the sugar into a .saucepan, -with a wineglassful of gin, a wineglassful of water, and the juice of the lemons, and boil till in a .syrup; then serve.