MUTTON. 58 171. HASHED VENISON. Make tkree-quarters of a pint of gravy as directed in haunch receipt. Cut about one pound and a half of cold venison into neat slices the third of an inch thick ; leave on the fat. Season with a saltspoonfiil of white pepper, a teaspoonfiil of salt, and a tablespoonfid of baked flour. Put the meat and the gravy into a bright stewpan, shake it frequently, and simmer very gently for half an hour. Add a quarter of a poimd pot of red currant jelly and a wineglassful of port "wdne, simmer two minutes longer ; then serve, very hot, with a dish of plain boiled French beans separate. 172. HAUNCH OP MUTTON. Order a haunch of fine South Down mutton that has been kept ten or twelve days, and desire the butcher to trim it ready for dressing; rub it well with a coarse cloth, and dredge it over with dry flour; tie it in large sheets of white paper, thickly spread with sweet dripping; hang it before a good fire, for the first half hour near, then draw it to a distance, and roast slowly tin done ; baste constantly ; twenty minutes before serving ‘take oflT the paper, dredge the mutton slightly with baked flour, and baste it Avith two ounces of dissolved butter; pour oflT the difipping ; add a teacupfnl of boiling Avater and a saltspoonful of salt to the gravy dripped from the meat; pom- it into a hot well- dish, place the haimch on the dish, the broad side uppermost, and serve at once, with red currant jelly turned out on a glass dish or a plate. Note.—Time for roasting: underdone, ten minutes to the pound; with the gravy in, fourteen minutes; well done, eighteen minutes. In frosty weather, two minutes to the pound must he added in each case. 173. SADDLE OP MUTTON BOASTED. The saddle should be hung for ten days. Dredge it with dry flour; put it into a sheet of paper, thickly spread with sweet dripping; hang it before a good fire, quite close for twenty minutes, then at a distance, till done. A quarter of an hour before serving, take off the paper; put half a saltspoon of salt into a teacupful of boiling water; pour it over the mutton; tlien baste till slightly brouued. Pour off the flit, and serve the