Opinions of the Press 6 31 ‘ There is also a totally new feature in the woi k under the modest title of “ A Few Tliin?« Worth Knowing.” Herein are to be found many valuable suggestions for the comfortable arrangement of a household. In conclusion, we think that we may confidently express an opinion that “ Cre-fydd’s” book should be found in every house where, although a moderate income is possessed, there is a reasonable desire to secure as much comfort and happiness as circumstances will permit.’ Wakefield Joubval. 32 ‘Cre-fydd has a most praiseworthy desire to make the book meet the wants of those who feel that economy in housekeeping matters is a necessity; not pinching, harassing economy, but careful prudence, while enjoying the comforts of middle life. Towards the end of the book come some “ Items for Invalids,” and hints as to the management of servants, &c., which are not only exceedingly useful, but something new, and really likely to be of great service to many. If there are many delicacies in the dishes made expressly for the sick room, no one would grudge them, and the receipts that Cre-fvdd gives certainly promise to make the invalid’s meals less uninteresting than they often are, and will also, we think, meet the doctor’s views as regards their wholesomeness.’ Sheffield Independent, March H, 1861. 33 ‘ Cre-fydd has to our mind made to the culinary literature of the country a valuable addition, from its perfect novelty, and forms, to the middle class whose incomes are moderate, a perfect guide in all matters of, or connected with. Housekeeping and Cookery.’ Newcastle Daily Chronicle, March 18,1861. 34 ‘ It is specially intended, as far as we can judge, for the use and behoof of the middle classes, in all matters of cookery and housekeeping, whose incomes are of limited amounts. Under the head “ Housekeeping,” this volume embraces a truly valuable code for the direction of household affairs. In conclusion, we are bound to say that ” Cre-fydd ” is at once novel and complete, and that the fair authoress of this book has conferred a lasting benefit on every household in which the mistress and the cook adopt it as their daily companion and guid^’ Hull Advertiser, March 19,1861. ♦ 35 ‘The “ Hints to the Mistress ” are difficult to overvalue by the inexperienced house- keeper. Under the title “ A few things worth knowing,” we find directions as to the management of a house in all its departments, calculated to render every home far happier than it is generally found to be, so far, at least, as depends on domestic manage- ment.’ The Scarborough Gazette, March 17,1861. 36 ‘ The pages before us are addressed to the middle classes of English society. Each recipe is perfect in itself, and thus, much perplexity is avoided. There are several bills of fare introduced, with the cost of each, both for dinner parties and evening entertain- ments; items for invalids are also not forgotten ; and many hints are given in relation to the economy of domestic life that cannot fail to be found frequently useful in every household ; among these, “ Hints to Servants ” are not the least valuable.’ The Manchester Examiner, March 29, 1864. 37 ‘ “Cre-fydd’s Family Fare.”—It is not often that one meets with a book of this kind that is so well entitled to be called “ The young housewife’s daily assistant in all matters relating to cookery and housekeeping” as this is. In all respects it is admirably adapted to its purpose, and must have cost the lady who wrote it, and who has evidently bad a rich store of experience and keen and accurate observation to work upon, intense labour and application. The recipes, some of which we have tried, are very suitable for the use of the middle class, aud have evidently been prepared with a view to judicious economy as well as excellence of result. In short, it is one of the most complete books of the description ever issued from the press, aud ought to be placed in the hands of every young housekeeper.’ Manchester Courant, Feb. 20, 1864. 38 ‘ This is a work that is likely to supersede all other books on the same subject. To families of moderate means “ Cre-fydd’s Family Fare ” will prove invaluable. The ®ent merit of her book, apart from the excellence of the rcciints themselves, is the clear way in which they are given. The work therefore can stand on its own merits, and needs only to be known to be appreciated. The book contains, likewise, various miscellanMus instructions and directions to servants and others, to which, it is to be hoped, those into whose hands it may be placed will give the attention they deserve.’ Chester Courant, Feb. 24, 1864.