VEGETABLES. 160 408. ASPAEAGUS, Scrape off the outer skin, cut off the end of the stalk, leaving the asparagus about seven inches long; tie it up into bundles Avith tape, and let it remain in cold Avater for two hours. Put it into plenty of boiling Avater, Avith a tablespoonful of salt, and boil, uncoA'ered, for tAventy minutes or half an hour, according to the size of the asparagus. Cut a round of bread half an inch thick, take off the crust, toast the bread, pour over it Avhile on the fork a cupful of the AA'^ater the asparagus is boiling in, spread it with butter on both sides, and serA'e the asparagus on it, taking off the tape ; seium melted butter in a tureen. Knead three ounces of butter AAuth a teaspoonful of baked flour, and stir into half a pint of boiling Avater; boil a quarter of an hour. 409. SEA-KALE, WITH WHITE SAUCE. The kale must be perfectly fl-esh ; Avell Avash it; take off the outer leaves, trim the root; tie it into bundles, and put it into cold Avater for an hour; put it into a saucepan of boiling water, Avith a dessertspoonful of salt, and boil rapidly (uncovered) for tAventy minutes or half an hour, according to the size of the kale. Serve upon buttered toast (without crust). Knead a tablcspoon- ful of baked flour AAuth tAvo ounces of butter, and stir into half a pint of boiling new milk; boil ten minutes, and serve in a tureen. 410. SEA-KALE, WITH PAEMESAN CHEESE. (Second dressing.) Sprinkle each piece of kale with a teaspoonful of grated Par- mesan cheese, a quarter of a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, and the same of pepper ; lay the kale on a flat dish ; streAv the top thickly Avith Parmesan; pour over an ounce of dissolved butter, and bake in a quick oven, or before the fire, for a qiiarter ol an hour. Serve in the same dish. 411. FEENCH OE SCAELET BE.AKS, PLAIN. Strip oft’ the strings by breaking off each end ; cut the beans into shreds an inch and a half long and the sixth of an inch thick; throAv them into cold Avater, Avith a tca.spoonfnl of salt in it, and let them remain an hoAir; drain, and put them into fast-