LOBSTER PATTIES. CURRIED LOBSTER. 53 two inches and a half across, and the other one inch and a half. Koll the paste out the third of an inch thick; dip the cutters into flour, and cut out eight of the larger size ; press the smaller size on the centre of each piece of paste, cutting it the sixth of a an inch deep. Eoll out the remainder of the paste, and cut out eight of the smaller pieces ; place them all on a baking tin, and b.ake in a quick oven till of a pale brown colour, about twenty minutes. Take them out, and with a sharp penknife remove the centre paste from the larger sized pieces. Fill the vacancy with oysters prepared as follows. Place the smaller piece, or lid, over, and send to table on a neatly folded hot napkin. Take off the beards of two dozen of oysters; throw the oysters into boiling water; put the beards and the liquor into a saucepan, with half au inch of mace, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, the thin rind of half a lemon, a grain of white pepper, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, and boH fast for ten minutes. Strain; cut the oysters into six pieces; stir a tablespoonful of Oswego flour into half a gill of thick cream ; put the oysters into the liquor, add a tablespoonful of lemon juice, simmer two minutes; stir in the cream, and, when thickened, fill the patties as directed. 158. LOBSTEE PATTIES. Make a paste, and proceed as directed in the foregoing receipt, using lobster instead of oysters. Take the meat out of a good- sized hen lobster, and chop it small; put the shells into half a pint of milk, with half an inch of mace, the thin rind of half a lemon, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, half a grain of cayenne, a grain of white pepper, a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt, and simmer for ten minutes; then strain. Put the lobster into the milk, and simmer for five minutes. Stir a dessertspoon- ful of Oswego flour into half a gill of thick cream, and add to’ the re.st; stir till it thickens, then fill the patties as directed. 159. CUERIED LOBSTER. Take the meat fi-om the shell of two moderate-sized fresh hen lobsters; cut it into half-inch square pieces; chop quite small a good-.sized onion; knead two tablespoonfuls of cuny-powder and a dessertspoonful of baked flour with three ounces of fresh