PUDDINGS, PASTRY, JELLIES, CREAil, ETC. 218 essence of vanilla. Have a sliarp knife, and cut the cake into five slices. Put the top slice aside, and spread the other four Tvith the jam; put two ounces of the sugar into the wine ; mix the spirits with it; lay the ratafias in a glass di.sh, and on them the bottom slice of the cake; pour over a sixth part of the wine mixture ; do this till the cake is built up, and over the top pour the remainder; baste it frequently till the wune, &c., is absorbed. Make a custard as follows:—Boil three ounces of sugar in the milk; beat the eggs; add the milk Avhile hot, but not boiling; stir over a slow fire till it thickens (about five minutes); stir in the cream; then let it get quite cold; add thirty drops of the essence of vanilla; cut the almonds into pointed pieces; stick the top of the cake tastefully with them; pour half of the custard over three hours before serving, and the remainder at the last moment. 620. GOOSEBEKET TEIFLE. Cut up six ounces of sponge-cake into slices half an inch thick; lay it on the bottom of a glass dish that will hold three pints. Mix together a wineglassful and a half of brandy, half a Aviiie- glassful of whiskey, half a -wineglassful of gin, and a tablespoonful of sifted loaf sugar; pour this equally over the cake, and let it soak while the following preparations are made. Pick, wash, and wipe dry a quart of fine green gooseberries; put them into a brass skillet, with three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, and simmer over a very sIoav fire till they are quite tender but not broken; turn them into a basin to get cold. Boil a quarter of a pormd of loaf sugar and the thin peel of half a lemon in a pint of new milk; moisten two tablespoonfuls of Oswego flour, with half a gill of cold milk ; add four well-beaten fresh eggs; beat for five minutes ; then stir in the milk while hot, but not boihng ; pour the mixture into the skillet, and stir over a very slow fire till it begins to thicken; then jjour it into a basin. Take out the peel; stir frequently, and when nearly cold add thirty drops of the essence of vanilla; lay the gooseberries on the cake, smooth the surface and pour over (he cream; let it stand in a cool place three hours before serving. 621. GOOSEBEKRY CREAIM. A l^iut of gooseberries, three-quarters of a pound of loaf .sugar,