LAMB. 72 209. BOILED LEG OF LAMB. Put the lamb into sufficient cold water just to cover it; boil up quickly ; skim ; then simmer as gently as possible till done, alloAving nineteen minutes to the pound, after it boils. When it has simmered three-quarters of an hour, add a dessertspoonful of salt. Serve with caper-sauce made as follows;—Take half a pint of the liquor the lamb is boiled in; stir into it three ounces of butter, kneaded with a tablespoonful of baked flour; boil ten minutes; chop a tablespoonful of capers; add these; then stir in a tablespoonful of thick cream. Place the lamb on a hot dish, tlie skin downwards; pour over half of the sauce, and the re- mainder serve in a tureen ; garnish with young carrots and mashed or whole young turnips. 210. BOILED NECK OP LAAIB. Put a neck of lamb into sufficient cold water to just cover it; boil up quickly; skim ; then simmer very gently for an hour. Knead a small tablespoonful of baked flour with two ounces of butter, and stir into the third of a pint of the liquor the lamb is boiled in ; boil ten minutes; then add a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley ; boil fast for three minutes. Place the lamb on a hot dish, bones downwards; pour the sauce over, and garnish with plain boiled young turnips. Serve very hot. Note.—The liquor will make excellent ‘economical soup ’—see receipt— or can be added to any stock. 211. MINCED LAMB. (Second dressing.) Mince about one pound of either roast or boiled Iamb ; sea-son it with a saltspoonful and a half of white pepper, two saltspoon- fuls of salt, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, one shalot, finely chopped, a teaspoonful of chopped pamley, and two dessertspoon- fuls of baked flour ; add three-quarters of a pint of gravy (made with the bones) and two ounces of butter; stir frequently, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Serve with a wall of spinach round the dish. Well Avash and pick the spinach, put it into a quart of boiling water, Avith a tablespoonflil of moist sugar and a dessertspoonful of salt; press it aa’cII into the AA'ater, and boil