MIXED FRESH FRUIT, SWISS, AND YELVET CREAMS. 219 the juice of u small lemon, and half the peel, very thin , boil till quite in a pulp ; then mb through a hair sieve; add a pint of good cream, and whisk it quickly till it thickens. Sex've in a glass dish or small glass cups. 622. MIXED FEESH FEUIT CEEAM. A teacupful of red currants, the same of Kentish cherries, half a teacupful of white currants, and three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar ; boil quickly and skim often for twenty minutes; add a teacupftd of raspbeiTies and the same of strawberries ; simmer two minutes; then press the whole through a sieve; stir the syrup into a pint of rich cream, and whisk it quicldy till it thickens. Serve in glass cups. Note.—^Both the preceding creams should be made two hoiu’s before required, and kept in a cold place. 623. SWISS CEEAM. Boil six ounces of loaf sugar and the thin rind of half a lemon in half a pint of new milk ; let it get cold; then stir in a table- spoonful of Oswego flour and a pint of good cream ; put it into an enamelled saucepan, and stir over a gentle fire till boiling ; strain into a basin, and when nearly cold, add the strained juice of a large lemon. Have ready one ounce of ratafias, three ounces of macaroons, half a pound of mixed preserved fruit or one pound of any kind of jam ; lay the cakes in a glass dish, the fruit upon them, and pour the cream over. Let it stand in a cool place for three or four hours before serving. 624. VELVET CEEAM. Boil a pint and a gill of new milk with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, the thin rind of half a lemon, and an inch of cinna- mon ; beat four fresh eggs, and mix them with two dessei'tspoonfuls of Oswego flour till quite smooth ; let the milk stand off the fire for ten minutes, then strain it into the eggs, stirring quickly all the time. Put the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it over a .slow fire till it thickens; pour it into a basin, and when nearly cold, add thirty drops of essence of vanilla. Serve, either as directed in the preceding receipt, or as follows :—Stone a pint of greengages or any other plums; put them into a skillet, with six ounces of moist sugar and the strained juice of a lemon ; boil