STEAYJ3D APPLES AKD PEAKS. 301 the skillet, put in the pippins, the juice, the peel, three cloves, three allspice, an inch of cinnamon, six ounces of loaf sugar, a gill of Marsala, and a gill of water. Simmer very gently, and skim often, till the pippins are tender, but not soit and pulpy. Take them out, put them in a pie-dish, boil the syrup till it thickens slightly, then strain it over the pippins. When quite cold serve. They should be of a rich dark brown colour through. 907. STEWED APPLES. Dessert apples should be used ; pare them neatly with a sharp knife, and scoop out the core; put them into a skillet, with half their weight of loaf sugar, one clove, an inch of cinnamon, the thin rind of half a lemon, and the strained juice, and three table- spoonfuls of cold Avater to eA^ery pound of apples ; simmer very slowly, and skim frequently, till they are tender (about an hour and a quarter). Take them out carefully; place them neatly on a glass dish; boil the syrup quickly for ten minutes, and Avhen nearly cold, strain it over the apples. To be served cold at des.sert. A pint of Avhipped cream or DcAmnshire cream poured over the apples makes it a pretty dish for dinner or supper. 908. WHISKEY APPLES. American pippins are the best, but any sweet, sound apples may be used. Peel them neatly, scoop out the core Avith a narroAv sharp-pointed knife. To every pound of apples alloAv three- quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, the thin rind and strained juice of a lemon, tAvo inches of cinnamon, tAvo cloves, lialf an inch of bruised ginger, half a gill of Avhisky, and half an inch of stick vanilla. Put the Avhole into a skillet, place it over a sIoav heat, and simmer gently for an hour and a lialf. Turn the apples frequently Avitli a silver spoon, and skim often. If carefully attended to, the apples become quite transparent, and Avill keep for more than a year ; place tliern in large glazed jars; boil the syrup for five minutes; strain it over the apples, and Avhen cold, tie them doAvn. To be served at dessert. 909. STEWED PEARS. The large hard pears are the best for this purpose. Put them into a tin stcAvpan with sufficient cold Avater to cover them, and