PLAIN COOKING. 264 two dessertspoonfuls of curry powder, a teaspoonful of salt, a table- spoonful of baked flour, and a teaspoonful of vinegar. Slice three onions, and fry them to a jjale brown colour in veal dripping; drain off the fat, and put them into a stewpan with the veal; stir in half a pint of gravy or water, or half a pint of new milk. Simmer very gently, and stir constantly for an hour and a quarter. Boil half a pound of rice in a quart of water for twenty-five minutes; drain on a sieve, and dry before the fire, or in the oven, for five minutes. Place the rice round a dish in the form of a wall, and serve the curry in the centre. Chutney or mixed pickles should be served with curry. 785. KNUCKLE OF VEAL, BOILED. Put a knuckle of veal, about five pounds weight, into a stew- pan ; cover it with water, and simmer gently, skimming frequently, for two hours and a half after it boils. Serve, either plain or with parsley and butter. Eeserve the liquor for soup. 786. KNUCKLE OF VEAL, STEWED WITH EICE. Put the veal into a ste'wpan, with two chopped onions, three saltspoonfiils of salt, one of pepper, a teaspoonful of sugar, and a quart of water; boil up, and skim carefully; simmer very gently for an hour and a half, skimming frequently. Wash half a pound of rice, put it with the veal, and continue to simmer for another hour. Serve very hot; garnish with sliced lemon. 787. STEWED KNUCKLE OF VEAL, WITH PEAS OR BEANS. Fry two onions to a light brown colour in fresh dripping; put them into a stewpan, with a tablespoonful of vinegar, a teaspoon- ful of sugar, a saltspoonful of pepper, three saltspoonfuls of salt; dredge in a tablespoonful of flom-, and add, by degrees, a pint and a half of water. Let the knuckle of veal be divided into six paits; put it into the pan, and simmer very gently, skimming frequently, for two hour’s and a half; add a quart of fresh-shelled green peas, or one pound of French beans, whole, a dessertspoonful of loaf sugar, and continue to simmer for three-quarters of an hour longer. Place the veal neatly on a dish, and pour the peas or beans over it. Serve hot.