rnESERVES. 302 boil slowly till they begin to feel soft. 'Jake them out; put them into cold water for a few minutes. Take off the skin neatly; split the pears, and scoop out the core. To each pound of pears allow six ounces of loaf sugar, two cloves, an inch of cinnamon, the thin rind of half a lemon, and half a gill of claret or port wine. Put the whole of the ingi-edients into a tin stewpan, and sim- mer very gently tUl the pears are quite tender; stir them frequently, and skim with a pewter spoon. Take out the pears; boil the syrup quickly for ten minutes; strain it over the pears, and when quite cold, serve them at dessert. Note.—Wine is not indispensable, they are very good done in water, bat better with wine. 910. ORANGES IN SYRUP. Peel the oranges; then, with a small sharp knife, remove ever)* particle of the white skin ; be careful not to prick the transparent skin so as to let the juice escape, and spoil the shape of the orange. For eight oranges, boil one pound of loaf sugar in half a giU of water ; when quite bright, add a wineglassful of rum ; put the oranges into a pie-dish that will just contain them; pour the syrup over, and let them remain till cold; then turn the oranges, boil up the syrup, pour it over again, and let them remain till wanted. They are better made the previous day. Served at dessert. Note.—K the oranges are unripe half a pound of sugar extra must be used, and the oranges must be simmered in the syrup for ten minutes. 911. OR.A.NGE SALAD. Wipe the oranges with a clean cloth ; cut them into neat slices the sixth of an inch thick. For nine oranges have ready, one pound of finely-pounded loaf sugar, a winegla-ssful of Madeira or rich sherry, a wineglassful of brandy, and a wineglassful of whiskey or rum. Lay the oranges and sugar in layers; pour the wine and spirit over, and, let it stand for six hours before serving. Baste the oranges frequently with the syrup, and use a silver spoon. Serve at dessert. 912. SUMMER FRUIT SALAD. The fruit must be fine, quite ripe and fresh gathered. Strip ofi" the stems. Mix in equal quantities I'ed currants and rasp-