GAME. 148 of Marsala; boil up; pour it over the birds, and sen'e imme- diately. 377. BKAISED PAETRIDGES, WITH CABBAGE. Trim and ■well wash a small savoy cabbage, and let it remain in cold water, with a tablespoonful of salt in it, for three hours; put it into cold water, and boil, uncovered, for twenty minutes ; drain and press out all the water. Braise the partridges as directed in the preceding receipt, adding the cabbage, and three ounces of fresh butter, a teaspoonful of loaf sugar, a .saltspoonful of pepper, two saltspoonfuls of salt, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated. If the birds be old, two hours and a half will not be too long to simmer them. Add the strained juice of a lemon over the cabbage, and serve it round the dish, the bacon in the centre and the birds upon it. Note.—Every receipt for pheasants may he foBo'wed for partridges, lessening the time if the birds be young. 378. PARTRIDGES. (Cooked and served Italian fashion.) Peel and chop three truffles, two large mushrooms, one onion, lour slices of carrot, four sprigs of parsley, and six leaves of thyme. Satiwate two sheets of white paper in salad oil or oiled butter. Put into the body of each bird half an oimce of very fine bread crumbs, kneaded with an ounce of butter, and seasoned with a quarter of a saltspoonful of white pepper, the same of salt, the strained juice of half a lemon, the twelfth part of a nutmeg, grated, and a salt.spoonful of chopped parsley. Lay the chopped vegetables on the oiled paper (half on each sheet) ; l-)ut a partridge on each, cover the breast with good fat bacon ; secure the paper well round it. Place the birds (breast upper- most) in a deep covered dish or pan, and bake in a quick oven for three-quarters of an hour (or an hour if the birds be laig'c) ; baste twice with oil or butter. Put into three-quarters of <a pint of stock (No. 1), a tablespoonful of baked flour, half of a small black onion (see receipt), and the trimmings of the truffles .and mushrooms; boil quickly for half an hour; add two tablcspoon- fids of claret, and strain ; take out the birds ; lay them on a hot dish without the bacon; put the vegetables into the gravy; boil up; then pour it over the partridges, and serve at once.