188 PUDDINGS, PASTRY, JELLIKS, CREAM, ETC. paste. Cut a French roll into thin slices, without crust, and pour the milk over it. Butter a pie-dish, and lay the b~ead in as a lining, and on that place any kind of jam, marmalade, or sweet- meats, three-quarters of an inch thick. Di.ssolve six ounces of fresh butter, and mix with the almonds; add six oimces of sifted loaf sugar, the yolks of six and the whites of three fresh eggs; beat well for a quarter of an hour. Pour the mixture over the fruit, and bake in a quick oven for fifty minutes or an hour. Note.—The dish maj’ be lined with a rich puff paste instead of bread, if preferred. 514. SWISS PUDDING. Form ounces of bread crumbs, dried and pounded to a fine powder, four ounces of loaf sugar, two ounces of grated cocoa- nut, six ounces of any kind of preserved fruit, six ounces of beef marrow or suet, the milk of the cocoa-nut, or half a gill of new milk, and three beaten eggs; beat well, and let it stand one hour. Butter a basin; beat the mixture again for ten minutes; put it into the basin; tie a cloth over, plunge it into fast-boiling water, and boil rapidly for three hom's and a half. Turn out carefully, and serve, ■with the following sauce poured over. 515. COCOA-NUT SAUCE. Boil two ounces of grated cocoa-nut and two ounces of loaf sugar in a gill of water for a quarter of an hour, then rub through a fine sieve; add the beaten yoUc of an egg and half a gill of thick cream. 516. BATH PUDDING. One ounce of ground rice, four ounces of flour, one ounce of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, one ounce of lemon, and two ounces of orange candied peel, four ounces of moist sugar, four ounces of currants, a quarter of a drachm of powdered cinna- mon, half a drachm of powdered ginger, three eggs, well beaten, six ounces of beef-suet, chopped, and a gill of new milk: mix those ingredients, and beat for twenty minutes. Butter a basin , put in the mixture ; tie it over with a cloth ; plunge it into fast- boiling water, and boil rapidly for three hours and a half. Serve, with loaf sugar sifted over, or with brandy burning in the dish (a Avineglassful).