HASHED AND CURRIED MUTTON. LEG OF MUTTON. 257 761. ECONOMICAL SOUP, No. 2. Put into a saucepan one pound of pieces of stale bread, three large onions, sliced, any cold vegetables, a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of marjoram, a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, and half a clove of garlic; take off the fat, and pour over the mutton liquor; boil for two hours; rub through a fine hair sieve ; add a pint of new milk, boil up, and serve at once. 762. HASHED BOILED MUTTON. (Second Dressing.) Cut some slices of cold boiled mutton a quarter of an inch thick; season each side with pepper and salt, and dredge both sides with flour; let the meat remain an hour to receive the seasoning. Fry in mutton fat two onions till quite brown; drain oIF the fat before the fire; fly the meat slightly in the same fat ; put the meat, the onions, and half a pint of either gravy or water into a stewpan Avith two picked walnuts, chopped fine, and a tablespoonful of the vinegar; simmer very gently for half an hour; garnish with three-cornered sippets of toasted bread placed at equal distances. Serve quite hot. 763. CUKKIED BOILED MUTTON. Cut into neat slices three-quarters of a pound of cold boiled mutton ; sprinkle over it a teaspoonful of .salt, two dessertspoon- fuls of curry-powder, and a tablespoonful of flour ; chop one onion quite fine; add that. Put the mutton into a stewpan with half a pint of gi-avy, if you have it, and if not, water; .shake the pan frequently, and let it simmer very gently for an hour and a half. Wash half a pound of rice, and boil it in a quart of water for twenty-five minutes; drain it on a .sieve, and put it into the oven for five minutes to dry. Place the rice round the dish neatly, and put the cuny in the centre. Serve very hot, and with it a glass of mixed pickles separate. 764. LEG OF MUTTON, ROASTED. A leg of mutton should be kept ten days. Hang it before a large brisk fire, quite near, lor a quarter of hour, baste it well, withdraw it to a di.stance, and let it roast slow’ly, basting it s