9 Opinions of the Press. 53 ‘ This work is emphatically the book for the middle classes, who are in the receipt of moderate incomes. Besides being a cookery book, it appears to us an admirable guide in all matters of housekeeping. We cannot too strongly recommend “ Cre-Fydd ” as a sound and sure guide to the inexperienced housekeeper, and a useful aid to those who have the advantage of experience.’ , , Richmond (Yorkshirb) Chronicle, April 2, 18C4. 54 ‘ A more appropriate gift for a young housewife than this volume we cannot possibly conceive, while to those of limited income, as well as to the affluent, it will prove invalu- able. The bills of fare for each day are carefully arranged, so that persons need not incur the risk of having dishes served up which are out of season—a very acceptable piece of information, we conceive. The numerous directions for conducting culinary processes are both precise and copious. It adds vastly to the practical value of the book to know that the whole of the receipts in it have been successfully used with the aid of an ordi- nary range and the appliances generally found in the kitchen of a small establishment; and we can safely declare that neither mistresses nor servants will ever turn in vain for instruction to its well-stored pages.’ Royal Leamington Spa Courier, April 2, 1864. 55 ‘ The book before us is the work of a lady who has evidently used to some purpose her domestic opportunities, and looked well to the ways of her household. The contents of the volume invite our faith, and we would be well pleased to leave our domestic destinies in the hands of Cre-Fydd. It is probable, that of the purchasers of Cre-Fydd’s capital book— who, we hope, will be very numerous—few may think of following the entire programme, but all we believe will find something in it to promote the comfort and en- joyment of their meals. The authoress is especially desirous to make herself understood by the young housewife and the plain cook. She writes not for the learned in these matters, but for those who have yet to learn, and so anxious is she to smooth the way that French terms are as far as possible avoided. It is, in short, a book of good English cookery, suited to moderately sized but comfortably provisioned establishments. In addition to the culinary receipts, there are numerous suggestions given calculated to promote household cleanliness and health.’ Edinburgh Evening Courajjt, Peb. 18, 1864. 56 ‘This is a most excellent cookery book, and should supply a want that must have been keenly felt by many a young housewife who has not had a thorough practical training in the mysteries of the kitchen.’ Aberdeen Herald, Jan. 16, 1864. 57 The woman who has learned the art of cooking well and of teaching her servants to do the same, has learned an an which will conduce more to the comfort and happiness of her home than almost any other she can acquire. Among the number of books on cooking we have seen none that can be more confidently recommended to the class for whom it is intended than “ Cre-Fydd’s Family Fare.” It is written from the point of view of a lady in the middle class, who has to keep house in a style of comfort on moderate means. All the receipts are in plain Rnglish, and are such as mav be understood and acted on by any person who can read and who has learned the first elements of cooking.’ Inverness Courier, March 10, 1864. 58 ‘ If any are, however, disposed to enter upon so useful a branch of education as cookery, we can recommend no better book than the present, which, written by a prac- tical hand, who writes not alone for accomplished arlMes, sets down everything so plainly that she who reads may cook, however inexperienced she may have been.’ Banffshire Journal, Jan. 12, 1864. 59 ou appears to have universal experience in the matter of dinner-giving She brings to her task a skill and taste almost reaching the elevation of genius As far as we can undertake to judge, all former books of the kind are cast into the shade by her 11 1^,* ^*i****®J'*'”, *^®®aaris the ne plus ultra of a manual of cookery. With K ,1 no young manager of an establishment can go far astray, if she will follow Its guidance.’ Hublin Evening .Mail, Feb. 19, 1864.