Fisn. 22 butter. Eoll ir in a pudding-clotii; secure botli ends; place it in a steamer over fast boiling water for tbirtj-five minutes. Turn it out carefully and seiwe, with the following sauce poured over it:—Put half a laurel leaf and half a bay leaf in a giU of new millv, and boil for three minutes. Beat the yolks of two fresh eggs with a wineglassful of cream. Take out the leaves; stir in the eggs for two minutes over the fire. Add the strained juice of half a lemon, stirred in by degrees, and pour it over the pudding. 52. SOUSED SALMON. (Second dressing.) Mix half a pint of the best vinegar ■with a gdl of water, a saltspoonftd of salt, half a saltspoonfiil of Avhite pepper, a grain of cayenne, an inch of ginger, ten peppercorns, two cloves, a small blade of mace, and a quarter of a clove of garlic. Boil for ten minutes; then let it get cold. Trim the sahnon neatly (about a pound and a half), place it in a deep dish, and strain the vinegar over it. Let it remain in pickle for twelve hours or more. Serve on a flat dish, with a garnish of fresh fennel. Note.—A teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar is an improvement 53. SALMON CUTLETS, TVITH MILANESE SAUCE. For six cutlets, order three slices, the third of an inch thick, out of the middle of a small salmon; cut each slice into two; take ofi" the skin, and remove the bone. Have six pieces of thin white paper; rub them three times across with fresh-cut garlic; spread them with butter (three oimces for the six). Put a wineglassful of IMarsala into a soup-plate ; dip each cutlet into the wine ; then fold it in the buttered paper, and broil over a slow fire, or fry in plenty of boiling fat for a quarter of an hour; drain on a sieve before the fire. Take OS' the paper, and serve with the foUo-wing sauce in the dish. 54. MILANESE SAUCE. Wash and bone two anchovies, peel one large mushroom and four shalots; chop these small, and put them into an iron sauce- pan with two ounces of butter, and stir over the fire till nicely browned; dredge in a tablespoonful ot baked flour. When w'ell mixed, add a tablespoonful of caper vinegar, a tablespoonful