208 rUDDINGt*, PASTRY, JELLIES, CREAM, ETC. ounces of fresh butter; fold over, and let it stand two liours in a cool place ; roll out again twice, and each time dredge over a littly dry flour ; rub the tins slightly with butter, and line them Avith the paste, the sixth of an inch thick ; tiim round the edge; fill the centre Avith jam; ornament Avith narroAV strips of paste, laid on in cross-bars, or with leaves tastefully arranged, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Tartlets may be ornamented Avith a small crescent of paste in the centre, and baked a quarter of an hour or eighteen minutes. The quantity given Avill make tAvo tarts (ten inches by seven) or twelve tartlets. 587. OPEIS' APPLE TAKT. Peel and core eight or ten good apples; put them into a sauce- pan, Avith half their Aveight of loaf sugar, the gi'ated rind and strained juice of a large lemon, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, and a Avineglassful of AA'hite Avine ; stir over a quick fire tiU they become a rich marmalade. "When nearly cold, add four beaten eggs and a gill of good cream; beat till quite cold ; line a Kart- tin Avith paste made as directed in the preceding receipt (a quarter of an inch thick), put in the apple mixture, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for thirty-five or forty minutes. Serve hot. 588. GROUND RICE CHEESECAKE. Knead two tablespoonfuls of ground rice with tAvo ounces of fresh butter, and stir into half a pint of ncAV milk, boiling; add six ounces of loaf sugar, the strained juice and grated rind of a large lemon ; stir over the fire for a quarter of an hour; then let it get nearly cold. Make a paste as folloAvs :—Four ounces of baked flour, half an ounce of ground rice, and five ounces of fresh butter, rubbed together; add a dessertsjwonfid of loaf sugar ; moisten Avith the yolk of an egg beaten Avith a Avineglass- ful of cold Avater; knead to a smooth paste; roll it out to the size of the dish (cleA'^en-inch OA'al tin dish), put it in, trim round the edge. Beat the yolks of six eggs; add tliem to the mixture ; beat ten minutes, put it on the paste ; grate the rind of a lemon oA'er the top, and bake in a quick oA'en for half an hour. Serve hot. 589. CHARLOTTE RUPSE. Beat the yolks of five fresh eggs, and strain them into half a pint of good cream ; put this into an enamelled saucepan, and stir OA'cr