139 BRAISED DUCK. spoonful of wliite pepper, half a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of loaf sugar, an inch of thin lemon peel, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, and half a pint of water; boil and stir for twenty minutes, till the water is aU absorbed; then add two ounces of butter, and rub through a sieve; when cold, add a saltspoonful of fresh-chopped parsley, and stuff the ducks; roast before a quick fire, basting constantly till done. Ducklings require thirty-five minutes, and ducks fifty minutes. Must be sent to table hot, and with gravy, as directed for gosling in the preceding re- ceipt. 353. BRAISED DUCK, WITH TURNIPS. Peel eight or ten small turnips; sift a dessertspoonful of loaf sugar over them; dissolve six ounces of butter, and fry the tmmips to a pale brown coloiu (in a stewpan) ; add two ounces more butter, and an onion, chopped; put in, breast downwards, a fine duck, and let it remain to brown, for twenty minutes. Take out the duck ; stir into the butter two dessertspoonfuls of baked flour, a teaspoonful of soy, a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoon- ful of pepper, and three-quarters of a pint of any good stock; boil fast, and skim off all the fat; then add a wineglassftil of Mai-sala and the strained juice of a lemon; put in the duck, breast uppermost, and simmer gently for twenty minutes; add the tiunips, and continue to simmer twenty minutes more. Place the duck on a hot dish, the turnips round it, and the gravy poured over. Serve at once. 359. BRAISED DUCK, WITH YOUNG PEAS. Chop quite small four spring onions, two sage leaves, and four sprigs of parsley; season with half a saltspoonfift of salt, a quarter of a .saltspoonful of pepper, and the tenth part of a nut- meg, grated. Knead the.se with an ounce of butter, and put it into the body of the duck; .spread three ounces of butter over the brea.st; lay on the bottom of a stewpan four large leaves of iresh-cut lettuce ; place the duck upon them, cover closely, and let it braise or simmer till of a pale brown colour (about half an hour) ; then add three-quarters of a pint of stock (No. 2), or plain veal gravy. Continue to simmer for twenty minutes ; then take out the duck, and put it in a quick oven for ten minutes; skim the gravy, and rub it through a fine sieve; put it back into the