ALMOND, COLLEGIATE, AND TABADISE PUDDINGS. 185 .TO-l. BRANDY CREAM FOR PUDDINGS. Dissolve three ounces of loaf sugar in a wineglassful of Avater; boil till in a clear thick syrup; then beat it into a giU of good cream; add, by degrees, a Avineglassful of brandy. Serve over the pudding. 503. ALMOND PUDDING. Six ounces of sAveet almonds, blanched, and pounded to a paste, six ounces of loaf sugar, in powder, half a pound of mixed candied fniit, cut into small pieces, half a gill of good cream, the yolks of six and Avhites of four fresh eggs, beaten separately; beat these ingredients well together, adding the whites last. Butter a dish or mould, put in the mixture, and bake in a quick oA'en for three-quarters of an hour, or rather more. Turn out carefully, and serv’^e either hot or cold. 504. COLLEGIATE PUDDING. Make a paste as folloAvs :—Five ounces of di'ied flour, an ounce of ground rice, tAvo ounces of sifted loaf sugar, and six ounces of fresh butter, Avell rubbed together; moisten Avith the yolks of tAvo fresh eggs beaten Avith the juice of half a lemon ; knead; then roll out the sixth of an inch thick. Butter a pie-dish, and line it Avith the paste; ornament the edge by clipping it in notches .Avith a paste-cutter. Spread the bottom half an inch thick Avith any kind of sweetmeats, jams, or marmalade. Blanch and pound three ounces of sweet and six bitter almonds; mix Avith them six ounces of siiled sugar and foiir ounces of dissoh'ed fresh butter; add the yolks of six eggs, beaten Avith tAvo tablespoonflils of brandy, and the whites of three eggs beaten to a froth. Beat the mixture for ten minutes, pour it over the fnait, and bake in a quick oven for an hour and a qiiarter. 505. PARADISE PUDDING. Six moderate-sized apples and a quarter of a pound of beef- suet, finely chopped, a quarter of a pound of fine crumbs of bread, eight ounces of moist sugar, the gi-ated rind and strained juice of a Seville orange, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, four fresh eggs, and a table.spoonful of rum ; mix these ingre- dients, and beat with a Avooden spoon for ten minutes. Butter a