8 Opinions of the Press. 46 ‘ The main value of a cookery book depends upon the instructions for preparine the materials. In this matter we can unreservedly recommend the work before us. Upon the whole, we think that the lady who has written “ Cre-fydd’s Family Fare ” has made a valuable addition to what may be called the “ culinary literature ” of the day. Westmoreland Gazette, January 16,1664. 47 ‘ We feel that the authoress (for the preface discloses that we are indebted to a lady for the production), has taken up entirely new ground, and has produced a book perfectly fitted to supply a want long felt by those belonging to the middle class, and who possess moderate incomes. In perusing the work, we were struck with the remarkable minute- ness, perspicuity, plainness of language (all French terms being avoided), which cbarac. terise the directions with reference to weight, measure, number, size, quantity, quality, proportion, fire, implements of cooking and their proper use. As far as we can judge, nothing but obstinacy would prevent the dullest of unskilled servants from producing any of the dishes described. The “Hints to Mistresses” and “Hints to ^rvants” may justly be called “ Manuals ” for each class. The subjects of our remarks are, we believe, completely new, and we can confidently state that Cre-fydd has produced a work eminently beneficial to experienced as well as inexperienced housekeepers, in all matters of cooking and housekeeping; and well deserves the praises which have been so liberally bestowed upon the work by our cotemporaries.’ Reading Mercury, March 12, 1864. 48 ‘ This is one of the most comprehensive, lucid, and useful books on all those subjects connected with cookery and household management which we know of. Its recent pub- lication may be taken as a guarantee that it possesses the fuilest and soundest informa- tion on the culinary art. A young housewife could not have a better “ assistant ” in domestic matters than this work is likely to afford.’ Leicester Journ.al, Feb. 12, 1864. 49 ‘ Lastly, we must refer to the title, “ A Few Things Worth Knowing.” This may justly be called a minute code of the duties of housekeeping, properly so called. It contains many valuable suggestions to the mistress and to the servant in their respective spheres. We have arrivedat the conclusion that there is much that is new in “ Cre-Fydd’s Family Fare,” which cannot fail to recommend it to every class of readers.’ Essex Herald, Feb. 23,1864. 50 ‘ The work has many things peculiar to itself, many ideas which if not new are well put; and containing as it does a vast number of bills of fare for the family in its ordinary course, as well as for the extra occasions of friendly parties, with the cost of each dish; plain cooking and the provision that ought to be made for servants; cooking for in- valids ; and directions so minute and plain that no one of ordinary intelligence can mis- understand them, as to quantities, time, state of the fire. &c.—it must be ver>- useful for the young housewife, and a good present for her to place in the hands of a new servant.’ Chelmsford Chronicle, March 9, 1864. 51 ‘ This is the most complete and practical work that has yet come under our attention on that apparently simple, but in reality very difficult, art of preparing our daily food in a wholesome, palatable, diversified, and inexpensive style.’ Brighton Herald, Ja»L 30,1864. 52 cared ia a ^ __ ' ItemSfor Invalids.” are generally uie iiiiiiisieniig nugeis ui mu oiui. ...a,, a ............... ... — — , too, we think it would be most useful, by diminiSliing, in some degree, his irksome labours, and would promote the comfort of the patient. \^ e heartily commend the worK both to the experienced and the inexperienced housekeeper. Brighton Guardian, March 9,1864. ‘There is one class of preparations which, we believe, has never yet a cooking book, namely, a dietary for the sick chamber, under the title ol ■ valids.” To this we would particularly invite the attention of our fair readers, as they ; eeiicrally tlie ‘‘ ministering; ang;el8*’ of the sick man’s chamber. To the mwliratman, V if wnni/1 mnef iiRofiil. hv dlniinifliine’. ill some decree, his irksome