3 Opinions of the Press. 9 ‘ “Cre-Fydd ” is persuasive, perspicuous, and precise : she makes it evident that a cook must save herself trouble by a careful observance of her instructious. The system on which this admirable cookery-book is arranged is the most comprehensive and simple which can be desired. To bills of family fare (suitable for a household of moderate means, and including two servants), which are cleverly diversified, and highly satisfactory, twelve bills of fare for dinner parties, eminently calculated to allay the mental anguish of the hostess and the gastronomic cravings of the guests, without disproportionate or unwaranted expense. Under the head of “ A Few Things Worth Knowing,” we find in- structions for the remedying of a number of painful emergencies with which the master and mistress of a household are tolerably certain to become unpleasantly familiar, from smoky chimneys to scalded fingers and sprained ankles. Deserves all manner of (pot) luck.’ Morning Post, Jan. 29, 1864. 10 ‘Written to help young housekeepers, and one that is really likely to be of use to them even if they only study the daily bills of fare for the kitchen. Cre-fydd’s information on other matters of domestic economy is well worth attending to.’ Globe, Feb. 11, 1864. 11 ‘This is a book of cookery on a new and original plan. It commences with Bills of Family Fare, calculated for two persons (with a corresponding allowance for the kitchen), but which a little addition or multiplication will easily render available for the instruction of a larger number. Bills of tare for dinner and other parties follow, to which are added careful instructions in cookery, plain or ornamental, but so worded as to be intelligible to others besides professed cooks or housekeepers imbued with the knowledge of many years. Nor is the information contained in this alluring work strictly confined to culinary proceedings. It includes prescriptions for invalids, good advice to mistresses and servants, and many other things well worth knowing by house- keepers, not omitting hints on carving. Every sentence is worth gold.’ Naval and Military Gazette, Jan. 9, 1864. 12 ‘This is not a common-place cookery book, merely giving receipts for making certain dishes, and nothing more. The authoress enters much more fully into the spirit of the work she has undertaken, and is evidently anxious to teach her fair readers to be good and economical managers as well as artistes. She actually provides a memi for every day in the year, selecting the dishes with practised taste, but at the same time not dis- regarding the question of expense. The useful information afforded under the head of ‘‘Things worth knowing ” is well worth the price of the entire book.’ . Army and Navy Gazette, Feb. 13, 1864. 13 ‘Thebook is arranged so that a servant by the exercise of moderate attention may produce any of the dainties specified, and may be presumed to afford a satisfactory response to the oft-propounded question, ‘‘What shall we have for dinner?” The authoress concludes with a number of suggestions for the practical guidance of mis- tresses and servants on the subject of household arrangements which, if well studied and acted up to by both mistress and maid, would tend to promote much greater comfort and much more mutual good feeling than at present exists in nine tenths of British households.’ Bell’s Life, Jan. 30, 1864. 14J. ‘ Messrs. SiMPKiN, Marshall, & Co. haveju.st published a handsome and useful volume designed for the special edification and instruction of young housekeepers. As a mere guide to the mysteries of domestic cookery the volume has much value; but it is likewise a teacher of domestic economy, and thus becomes more useful still. Among Its peculiarities is the publication of a bill of fare for every day in the year, including breakfast and dinner, for a small family. The cost of every article is clearly set out, and the result is to show in the simplest manner how the best result can be obtained on the most economic principles. The book may be safely recommended in every respect.’ Morning Star, Feb. 16, 1864. ‘The want that has been felt so long—of a plain sensible hook—that will really be a l>y“Cre-Fydd's Family Fare,” and we therefore offer no 'V ^ giving a bill of fare for each day in the year “Vi' /< r'.'” a» to what they shall order and what P 1 . ‘m P'"'o »o<> wholesome; and making use of what each holds > within the reach of most moderate and respectable house- CouRT Circular, 5, 1864.