ox EIDNEY PUDDING. OX HEART. 256 754. OX KIDXEY IKISII STEW. Trim oiF the skin and pith, and cnt the kidney into twelve equal sized pieces; season with a saltspoonfiil of pepper, a tea- spoonful of salt, a grain of cayenne; put it into a stewpan with a large onion, chopped, and a quarter of a pint of water ; boil up and skim. Pare five or six potatoes, and place them round the pan ; simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour, or rather more, if the potatoes be large. Serve, neatly arranged on the dish, and very hot. 755, OX KIDXEY PUDDING. Cut up and season the kidney as directed in the preceding receipt; mb half a pound of good dripping, or six ounces of finely-chopped suet, into three-quarters of a pound of fiour; moisten with cold water and knead into a firm paste; roll out a quarter of an inch thick; grease a pudding basin and line it with the paste, pressing it flat where it folds over; put in the kidney and a teacnpful of cold water; cover the top with a circular piece of paste; press it to make it adhere ; tie over a cloth; plunge the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil fast for three hours and a half if dripping be used, four hours if suet. Loosen round the edge with a knife, turn out the pudding, and serve very hot. 756. OX HEART, ROASTED. Well wash the heart and free it fi’om blood ; wipe it quite dry, Make a stufiing as follows :—Chop fine a quarter of a pound of beef-suet; mix with it two ounces of bread crumbs, a tablespoon- ful of chopped parsley, a saltspoonful of mixed herbs in fine powder, a quarter of a gi’ain cf cayenne, a grate of nutmeg, one shalot, finely chopped, half a saltspoonful of salt, the same of black pepper ; stir in one beaten egg ; fill the heart; spread a sheet of paper thickly with good dripping, tie it over the heart, and roast before a good fire, not very near, for two hours, con- stantly basting; remove the paper ; pour off the dripping ; add a teacupful of boiling water and a salt.spoonful of salt to the gravy dripped from the heart. Place the heart on a very hot dish, pour over the gravy, and serve, with a pot of currant jelly on a plate.