182 PUDDINGS, PASTPy, JELLIES, CIIEAII, ETC. bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes; turn out carefully, and serve, hot or cold. If cold, garnish with any kind of preserves. 492. CABINET PUDDING. Eight ounces of stale sponge-cake, one ounce of ratafia.s, seven ounces of candied fi-uit, eight fresh eggs, half a pint of new milk, a gill of cream, a wineglassful of Curaq^o or brandy, and two ounces of loaf sugar; boil the sugar in the milk; beat the eggs; add them to the milk while it is warm, but not boiling. Let it get cold; then put in the spirit and the cream; cut the cake into thin slices ; butter a quart mould, stick it tastefully with three ounces of the fruit; lay in the cake, fi-uit, ratafias, and custard, in the order they are named, till it is quite full. Let it stand for an hour, that the cake may soak in the custard; then cover it with buttered writing paper ; tie a cloth over that, and steam over fast-boiling water for an hour and a half. Turn out care- fully, and serve, with the following sauce in the dish. 493. CUKA9AO SAUCE. Boil three ounces of loaf sugar and the rind of half a lemon in a gUl of Avater; moisten a dessertspoonful of arrowroot Avith haK a giU of cold Avater, and add to the rest; stir over the fire for three minutes; add a Avineglassful of CAuraqib. Take out the peel, and serve as directed. 494. MAEROW PUDDING, BOILED. Mix together the foUoAving ingredients :—A quarter of a poimd of baked flour (or biscuit poAvder), a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of currants, Avell washed and dried by rub- bing in a cloth, an ounce of SAveet almonds, blanched and pounded, the grated rind and strained juice of a lemon, the eighth part ot a nutmeg, grated, sLx ounces of beef-marroAv, finely chopped, two beaten eggs, and a quarter of a pint of milk ; beat the mixture for ten minutes; butter a mould ; put in the pudding; tie a cloth OA'er ; plunge it into boiling Avater, and boil fast for three hours. Tui-n out carefully; sift loaf sugar over the top, and serve. Note.—Tho same pudding may be made with either dried cherries, pre- served ginger, raisins, or candied peel, instead of currants. In cither case, chopped small, or it may be made without fruit.