141 STEWED GIBLETS. GIBLET PIE. 362. STEWED GIBLETS. The giblets must be well cleaned and soaked in warm water for an hour. Wipe them dry, and cut them into neat pieces about two inches long; season (one set) Avith a saltspoonful and a half of Avhite pepper, two saltspoonfuls of salt, a grain of cayenne, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, two chopped shalots, and a tablespoonftrl and a half of Hour. Put them into a bright stew- pan (rubbed tAvice across the bottom Avith garlic), Avith a quarter of a pound of butter, and fiy OA’-er a gentle fire till slightly broAvned; then add a pint and a half of any good stock, a Avine- glassful of Avhite AA'ine, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a dessertspoonful of HarA^ey-sauce; boil up sloAvly, skim, then simmer gen1;ly for tAAm hours and a half, skimming occasionally. SerA'e very hot. Note.—Truffles (three sliced), button mushrooms (tAveh-e), or six button onions may be added with improvement. 363. GIBLET PIE. Soak the giblets for an hour in Avarm Avater, wipe them dry, and cut them into neat pieces about tAvo inches long. Season one set Avith a saltspoonful and a half of Avhite pepper, tAvo saltspoonfuls of salt, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, and a grain of cayenne; put them into a fire-proof covered jar, Avith just enough veal broth or cold Avater to AveU moisten them ; cover closely, and bake in a sloAV oven for tAvo hour’s; then let them get cold. Cut about one pound of either veal cutlet or rump steak into pieces, tAvo inches square and the third of an inch thick ; season it Avith a saltspoonful of salt and the same of pepper ; lay it on the bottom of an eleven-inch pie-dish ; put the giblets, Avith their gravy, upon the steak, and rub the edge of the dish Avith lard or butter. Make a paste as folloAvs Moisten nine ounces of sifted flour Avith a teacupful of Avater, Avith the juice of a small lemon in it; knead till smooth ; spread it out on the pasteboard, lay in seven ounces of good butter, fold over the sides, and roll out four times (always the same way), each time dredge over a little flour; roll it up, and set it in a cool place for two hours or more; cut off about a fifth part, roll it out the sixth of an inch thick ; cut it into strips the