4 SOUPS, BROTHS, ETC. cold water; put tlie stems into a stewpan with eight spring onions, a saltspoonful of salt, a dessertspoonful of sifted sugar, and a pint and a half of cold water. Boil fast for an hour, then strain off the Avater and add it to three pints and a half of stock (No. 1). Boil rapidly (uncovered) for half an hour; add the asparagus heads and a wineglassful of brown sherry. Continue to boil for fifteen or tAventy minutes, then serve. 12. SPEING SOUP. (Two quarts.) Cut into small balls, Avith a vegetable scoop, sufficient carrots and turnips to fill a breakfast-cup ; equal quantities of each. Peel eight spring onions, and cut them into pieces the size of a pea; scrape tAventy-five asparagus, cut off the heads an inch long, and throAV them into cold AA’ater; shell half a pint of young green peas ; chop a dessertspoonful of parsley quite small. Put the caiTots, turnips, and onions into a pint of cold Avater, Avith tAvo tablespoonfuls of loaf sugar, and let them remain for an hour. Put the trimmings of the vegetables into five pints of stock (No. 1), and boil for an hour. Strain. Add the carrots, tiu-nips, and onions ; boil fast for a quarter of an hour, then put in the peas and asjAaragus heads : continue to boil fast (uncovered) for tAventy minutes ; add a teaspoonful of s<dt and the parsley; boil two minutes more, then serve. 13. GEEEN PEA SOUP. (Two quarts.) Wash tAvo handfuls of fresh young spinach, tAvo sprigs of mint, a large lettuce, and tAvelve spring onions; leave them in cold Avater, Avith three tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, for tAvo hours. Shell a quart of old peas and three-quarters of a pint of young. Put all, except the young peas, into a steAvpau containing a quart of boiling Avater, a teaspoonful of .salt, and a teaspoonful of loaf sugar. Boil fast (uncoA'ered) for an hour ; then add three pints of stock (No. 2). Stir frequently. Knead tAvo tablespoonfuls of baked flour Avith tAvo ounces of fresh butter, and stir in for ten minutes. Pub the Avhole through a fine hair sieve, put it back into the stcAvpan and boil up; put in the young peas, stir