107 SWEE'fUUEADS. milk; boil up quickly, and then simmer gently for an hour; baste frequently with the sauce. Take out the sweetbreads, put them in a moderate oven for eight minutes; skim and strain the sauce; add the yolks of two eggs, beaten with a tablespoonful of cream; stir over the fire for two minutes ; place the sweetbreads on a dish, pom- over the sauce, and serve. This receipt is for two large sweetbreads. 287. SWEETBKEADS, PLAESb Trim and blanch the sweetbreads as directed in the preceding receipt; dip them into a beaten egg, then into fine dried crumbs; place them on a tin dish; pour over each, three ounces of dis- solved butter, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven, basting constantly, and serve. Garnish with cut lemon. XoTE.—If the sweetbreads be small, thirty-five or forty mimites will be sufficient in all cases. 288. SWEETBEEADS, WITH TKUEFLES. Blanch the sweetbreads in boiling water five minutes, and in cold for one hour ; remove the fat, skin, and pith ; dry them, and dredge them lightly with baked floiu-; place them on a tin dish, baste well with dissolved butter (a quarter of a pound), and bake till nicely browned, about half an hour. Peel and slice six fresh truffles; put them into a stewpan, with a gill of Marsala, a salt- spoonful of salt, a saltspoonfnl of white pepper, the strained juice of a large lemon; simmer ten minutes; add a gill of stock (No. 2). Knead a dessertspoonful of baked flour with two ounces of butter, and stir in for five minutes; put in the SAveetbreads, and continue to simmer half an hour longer ; then serve. 289. SWEETBKEADS, WITH MUSHKOOMS. Blanch and trim the sAveetbreads as directed in the foregoing receipt; lard them thickly Avith good fat bacon ; cut up half a carrot, half a turnip, half a head of celery, a small onion. Rub a stewpan four times acro.ss the bottom with garlic ; put in the vegetables, with a quarter of a jAound of butter, and fry them broAvn; lay in the SAveetbreads, and add the third of a pint of stock (No. 2), a-saltspoonful of salt, the same of loaf sugar and Avhite pepper, a small blade of mace, two cloves, three allspice,