SALMON IN POTATO PASTE. SALMON PUDDING. 21 ofF the paper, put the fish on a hot dish, and pour the following sauce over it. Mix together half a pint of stock (No. 2), a table- spoonful of capers, a dessertspoonful of soy, a teaspoonful of anchovy-sauce, a teaspoonful of fresh-made mustard, and half a grain of cayenne. Boil ten minutes. Knead together three ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of baked flour, and stir in for eight minutes. Add the strained juice of a lemon, and a wineglassful of Marsala or Madeira; then serve. Note.—The receipt is written for a piece of salmon weighing about three pounils and a half. If split fish be used, half an hour will bo sufficient to steam it. 50. SALMON IN POTATO PASTE. (Second dressing.) hlash six mealy potatoes witli a wooden spoon till quite smooth, add two saltspoonfids of salt, two ounces of oiled butter, and the yolk of an egg ; beat till very light. Divide about half a pound of cold salmon into neat pieces an inch long, freed from skin and bone. Mix Avitli it a saltspoonful of salt, a grain of cayenne, lialf a saltspoonful of white pepper, and three tablespoonfuls of shrimp sauce, or melted butter. Put a layer of potato into a flat dish, lay in the fish, cover it Avith the rest of the potato. Smooth over the top Avith a knife, and bake in a quick oven for tAventy minutes. Serve in the same dish, Avhich should be placed on a folded napkin on another dish. 51. SALMON PUDDING. (Second dressing.) Boil three ounces of crumbs of bread in the third of a pint of neAV milk till it becomes a smooth paste; then tuni it on a plate to get cold. Beat three ounces of fresh butter to a cream ; pound half a pound of boiled salmon till in a paste; beat the yolks of four, and the AA-hites of tAvo eggs for ten minutes. Dlix all these Avell together. Add a piece of garlic the size of a pea, a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of thick anchovy-sauce, half a saltspoonful of Avhite pepper, the tentli part of a nutmeg, grated, and half a grain of cayenne. Continue to pound till the seasoning is mixed Avith the other ingredients; then roll it into a bolster shape, six inches long; dredge it Avell Avith baked flour, and put it into half a sheet of foolscap jiaper, thickly spread Avith