Xll PREFACE. reduced Allemande sauce, strongly flavoured with mushrooms; each cutlet as it is dipped to be afterwards placed flat on a baking- sheet upon rough ice, to set the same quite firm on the cutlets; they are then to be egged, crumbed, fried in hot lard, and, being dished up, are to be garnished ■with a puree of green asj;aragus, or asparagus peas, and some supreme or any other ■white sauce poured round the base.’—Francatelli’s Cook's Guide. ‘SHOULDERS OF TEAL, STUFFED. ‘ Take the joint and lay it with the skin side downwards ; with a sharp thin knife carefully detach the meat from the bladebone; then hold the shoulder edgewise, and detach the. meat fi-om the other side of the bone, being careful not to make a hole in the skin ; then cut the bone from the knuckle and take it out. You may at first be rather awkward aboitt it, but after once or twice trying it will become easy; you may also take out the other bone, but I prefer it in, as it keeps the shape better; then lard the lean part like the neck (in No. 320); mix some salt and a little mixed spice together, with Avhich rub the meat from Avhence the bone has been cut, stuff Avith veal stuffing, or sausage-meat, or suet jHidding ; braise, garnish, and serve (as No. 303). This being the toughest pm-t of the veal, it should be tried before taking up, to see if it is properly done, by thrusting a larding needle in it. If it goes in easily, it is done. This joint is excel- lent cold, and should be carved in thin slices crossAvi.se.’—Soyer s Modern Housewife. ‘ POULETS. ‘ Set the foAAds for one hour in cold Avater, then they are to bo plain boiled. For the sauce, use a pint and a half of bechamelle and a teaspoonful of Avhite sauce ; reduce it to a pint; put into it equal quantities of mushrooms and truffles, and pieces of quenelle the size of a nut; leave it in the bain-marie to keep Avarm, and remain till Avanted. Serve the sauce in a tureen, to be put on each plate by the carA^er.’—The Lady s Guide. ‘ HARICOT HUTTON. ‘ This dish is nothing more than mutton chops broAvued in flie frying pan, and then stcAved in just enough Avater to cover tlicm,