84 LEEK. 236. SPICED AND PRESSED BEEF. Have a piece of brisket of beef, twelve inches long and seven wide. Mix well together the following ingredients, and rub into the beef on both sides:—Two pounds of salt, an ounce and a half of saltpetre, half an ounce of salt of prunella, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, a quarter of a drachm of powdered cloves, a quarter of a drachm of powdered mace, half a drachm of powdered allspice, a quarter of an ounce of black pepper, a quarter of an ounce of bi’uised mustard-seed, a drachm of bruised coriander-seeds, and a clove of garlic, chopped fine. Let the beef remain in this pickle five days, turning and rubbing it daily. Dress it as follows :— Put the beef into plenty of cold Avater ; boil up slowly ; skim ; then simmer as gently as possible for four hours; take it out, remove the bones, roll it up, skin ouUvards, as tightly as possible; setv it up in a strong cloth, and simmer for two hours longer; put it between two boards, Avith a heavy Aveight upon the upper one. When cold, take off the cloth : may glaze or not, as pre- ferred, Avhen served. 237. FILLET OP BEEF. Have a piece of the under-side of sirloin of beef, about three pounds. Mix the strained juice of a lemon Avith a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, a saltspoonful of sugar, and a finely chopped onion ; rub this Avell into the beef, and let it remain all night. Take off the skin and fat; lard the round side thickly and deeply Avith fat bacon. Put a slice of fat bacon into a stcAv- pan ; place the beef upon it; coA'er the larding Avith AA-riting paper, thickly buttered; put round the beef a carrot, an onion, half a head of celery, all sliced, a piece of garlic as big as a pea, the trimmings of the beef, four sprigs of parsley, oue sprig of thyme, a laurel leaf, a bay leaf, two cloves, tAvo allspice, four peppercorns, a saltspoonful of salt, half a sjilt.spoonful of pepper, and sufficient stock (No. 1) just to reach the larding; put the steAvpan over a brisk fire for a quarter of an hour; then place it Avherc it Avill simmer very gently for two hours. Take out the beef; place it in a sIoav oven; rub the giuA*)* through a fine sieve; t;ike off all the fat. Mix a dessertspoonful of baked flour with a tablesnoonful of mushroom ketchup and a table.sjx>onlul of