54 FISH. butter. Fiy the onion and butter together till nicely browned; stir in a gill of cocoa-nut milk, or thin cream; put in the lob- ster, and stir for eight minutes; add a saltspoonful of salt and the strained juice of a lemon. Serve on a bed of rice. Well wash and boil half a pound of the best rice in a quart of water for twenty minutes; drain on a sieve, and separate each grain with a wooden fork ; place the rice on the dish in the form of a well; put the lobster in the centre, and serve with mixed pickles or chutney separate. 160. LOBSTEK CUTLETS. Take the meat out of one large or two small hen lobsters; pound it and season with a saltspoonful of salt, three-quarters of a salt- spoonful of white pepper, half a grain of cayenne, and two ounces of dissolved fresh butter. Poimd the coral and spawn; add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and a teaspoonful of baked floiu; stir over a gentle fire for two minutes ; then mix it with the lobster. Set it in a cool place for an hour. Make up the meat into four or six small cutlets; dip each into beaten egg, then into fine dried bread crumbs; let them stand ten minutes in a cool place ; then redip them in egg and crumbs. Fry (nine or ten minutes) in plenty of boiling lard, till of a pale brown colotu’. Put the end of a small claw into the narrow part of the cutlets, and serve very hot. 161. BASHAWS OP LOBSTEE. Have a very large fi'esh-boiled hen lobster, split it down the back, take out the meat, and mince it quite small; season with three grains of cayenne, a saltspoonful of white pepper, the eighth part of a nutmeg, gi-ated, half a saltspoonful of salt, and two ounces of dissolved butter. Season three ounces of fine crumbs of bread with a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt, the same of white pepper, and the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated. Take off the small claws; wipe out the four quarters of the shell; spread over each a dessert- spoonful of the crumbs, and put in the fourth part of the lobster; cover closely with the cnimbs. Baste the four bashaws with three ounces of dissolved butter, and bake in a quick oven for ten or twelve minutes. If not nicely coloured, pass a red-hot sala- mander over the top. Serve in the sliells, placed on a neatly folded napkiu.