108 VEAL. tlie tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, the tliin rind of half a lemon, and a tablespoonful of brandy ; boil up quickly ; skim; then simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour. Put the sweetbreads in a moderate oven (with a quarter of an ounce of butter on each) for ten minutes; skim and strain the gravy. Skin and clean twelve button mushrooms; put them into the gravy, with a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar; knead an ounce of ti-esh butter with a dessertspoonful of l>aked flour, and stir in ; boil up ; put in the sweetbreads, and continue to simmer for a quarter of an hour. Serve the sweetbreads in the centre and the sauce round. 290. VEAL PATTIES. Strain the juice of a lemon into a gill of cold water, and stir in sufficient to moisten three-quarters of a pound of sifted flour; knead to a smooth paste; lay it on a slab, and spread over it three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter; turn over the four sides; dredge it with flour, and roll out. Do this four times; then fold it in three, and let it stand in a cool place for tAvo or three hours. Poll out again tAA'ice, the second time the third of an inch thick. HaAm ready tAvo circular patty cutters; one two inches and a half across, and the other one inch and a half. Dip the cutters into flour, and cut out eight of the larger size; press the smaller size on the centre of each piece of paste, cutting it the sixth of an inch deep. Roll out the remainder of the paste, and cut out eight of the smaller size. Place them all on a baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven till of a pale broAvn colour, about tAventy rainutes. Take them out, and Avith a sharp penknife remove the centre paste from the larger piecas; fill the vacancy with veal prepared as folloAvs, then place the smaller piece over the centre, and serve immediately. Mince quite small half a pound of lean veal, and tAvo ounces of ham, season Avith the grated rind of half a lemon, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, half a saltsjwonful of Avhitc pepper, half a saltspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, and a tablespoonful of baked flour. Put it into a saucepan Avith sufficient veal stock to avcII moisten it; and simmer gently; stirring constantly, for a quarter of an hour. Add the strained juice of half a lemon, and half a gill of thick cream ; then fill the patties as directed.