A KKW THTAGS WORTU KXOAVIXG. 328 slices as possible. The suet fat is lD?st when hot. All salt beef should bo cut thin. Veal.—The fillet must be cut from the round part in verj' thin ■ slices; stuffing and gravy should be served to each person. Loin., neck, and chump end of loin should be cut into slices the sixth of an inch thick. Pork.—Cut the leg through the middle, close to the bone. Serve slices a quarter of an inch thick. If stuffed, send stuffing and gravy on each plate. A boiled leg of pork, and all other parts salted, should bo cut the sixth of an inch thick. Ham should be cut as thin as possible, unless cooked in tlie Spanish way, Avhen the slices should be a quarter of an inch thick. In either case, place the knife three inches above the knuckle, which should be to your left hand, slanting toward the knuckle ; cut off the piece down to the knuckle; then carve the ham in very thin slices, flit and lean. A ham cut in this way looks better and goes farther than when cut as a leg of pork, as it often improperly is. Bacon must always be cut thin. . Tongue.—Cut the thick part of the tongue doum to the root, but not through, and seiwe slices a quai-ter of an inch t hick. Bath Chap.—Cut very thin slices from the thick part of the chap lengthways. A small piece of the tongue, if any, should be sent to each person. Fowls.—Fix the fork in the middle of the breast, and do not remove it till the fowl is cut up. First take off the legs thus : Place the point of the knife flat under the thigh, eut throrjgh the skin, turn the leg back, and separate it from the body ; then take off the Avings by jilacing the knife doAvn the side of the breast, in the line Avith the joint of the Aving, and cut through to joint, and separate it. Place the knife across the breast, half an inch beloAv the point of the breast-bone, slanting toAA*ards the neck, and remove the merrythought; then take off the small bones called the flyers, Avhich present their points on each side of the neck; then cut through the ribs on both sides ; pull up the fork Avith the breast. The back, if Avanted, may be cut across into three pieces. Slices may be taken off the breast. Ducks.—Slice the breast longtliAvays, and cut up in the same Avay as foAA’ls.