64 MOTION. three-quarters of an hour. Put the third of a pint of new milk into a bright saucepan, with a shalot, a quarter of a clove of garlic, a small piece of thin lemon peel, a bay leaf, half of a laui-el leaf, and three sprigs of parsley; boil ten minutes, and strain. Peel twenty fresh button mushrooms; put them into a pint of boiling water, with a teaspoonfril of salt and the juice of a lemon ; boil fast for ten minutes ; drain. Beat the yolk of a fresh egg with half a gill of thick cream ; stir it into the milk; add the mushrooms; boil up for two minutes. Serve the sauce over the cutlets, which must be neatly placed on the dish, the ends of the bones all meeting in the centre. 187. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH VEGETABLE SAUCE. Trim off the fat and pith of six or seven cutlets from the best end of a neck of mutton ; put them into a pie-dish, with a tea- spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, and three mmces of butter; cover the dish closely, and bake in a slow oven nearly an hour. Make a sauce as follows:—Clean and cut up one small caiTOt, a small head of celery, half a small turnip, an endive, a handful of spinach, and two Jerusalem ai-tichokes; put them into a saucepan, with half a pint of stock or gravy, a salt- spoonful of salt, the si.xth part of a nutmeg, grated, the grated peel of half a lemon; boil for three-quarters of an hour; drain the cutlets before the fire on a napkin; stir the butter into the sauce ; boil up. Rub the sauce through a fine hair sieve ; add the strained juice of a lemon ; and serve the sauce in the centre of the dish, and the cutlets round it, the bones all meeting in the centre. 188. MUTTON CUTLETS, BR.\ISED. (Served witli Spinach or SorreL) Cut five or six cutlets, the width of the bone, off a neck of mutton; trim off all the fat, and bare the bone an inch at the end; season wdth a teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper, and dredge each cutlet Avith dried Horn-. Make a bright stewpan hot, and rub it four times across with garlic; put in two ounces of butter to dissolve; then put in the cutlets, and brown both sides slowly; add a teacupful of any good gravy, and simmer as gently as possible for half an hour. Well wash five or six handfuls of spinach ; put it into a saucepan, Avith a pint of