102 VEAL. bolster; beat the white of an egg, bnish it over the roll, dredge it lightly with baked flour, roll it in thickly buttered foolscap paper, tie it in a cloth, and steam over fast boiling water for two hours. Serve with the following sauce :—Put the veal trimmings into a saucepan, with half a shalot, half a bay leaf, half a laurel leaf, half a saltspoonful of salt, the same of loaf sugar, and three- quarters of a pint of cold water; stew for two hours, till the quantity is reduced to half; strain, and add the yolk of one egg, beaten with half a giQ of thick cream and the strained juice of a lemon. Take off the cloth and the paper ; place the roU on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. 278. VEAL OLIVES. Scrape half a pound of uncooked veal and an ounce of lean ham; clean and pound one anchovy; mix Avell together, and season with the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, a saltspoonful of pepper (Avhite), a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a dessert- spoonful of Oswego flour, an ounce of veal-suet, finely chopped, and a well-beaten egg. Cut some slices of veal off the fillet, a.s thin as possible, and trim them into pieces fom’ inches and a half long and three wide (six will be required) ; roU these flat with the rolling pin ; have the same number of pieces of fat bacon, cut so thin that they are almost transparent; divide the forcemeat into six parts, roU one part in each piece of veal, and over that the bacon, bind them round with tape; put the six olives into a small stewpan, with a teacupful of good gravy, and simmer for two hours; baste the oUves constantly with the gravj^; take them out, remove the tape carefully ; put them neatly on a dish ; skim, and strain the gravy; add half a wineglass of Mai'sala and the strained juice of a lemon ; pour it over and serve. 279. VEAL PIE. Have one pound and a half of veal cutlets, a quarter of an inch thick, free from skin or bone, a quarter of a pound of mild ham, as thin as it can be cut; trimmed; cut both into inch and a half pieces; season the veal •with a saltspoonful and a half of white pepper, a saltspoonful of salt, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, half a gi-ain of mace, pounded, the grated rind of half a