CAKES. 236 together and beat for ten minutes. Butter some small tin moulds, half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for eight or ten minutes. Currants, chopped, candied peel, or caraway seeds may be added. 683, MADELENA CAKES. Two ounces of citron, chopped, two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, three ounces of curj-ants, wa.shed and rubbed dry, six ounces of finely-pounded loaf sugar, si.x ounces of baked flour, sifted, six Avell-beaten fresh eggs; mi.x these ingredients well together; then add six ounces of fresh butter, dissolved, but not quite in oil, two tablespoonfuls of Cura9uo. and thirty drops of the essence of vanilla; beat the mixture for ten minutes; put it into small fluted moulds (three p^arts fill them) rubbed with butter, and bake in a quick oven about twenty minutes. Beat the white of an egg with two tablespoonfuls of yZne/y-powdered loaf sugar, and five drops of vanilla; spread this over the top of the cakes five minutes before they are done. Turn out carefully, and serve, either hot or cold. 684. SEED CAKE, PLAIK. Beat six ounces of butter Avith six ounces of moist sugar and a saltspoonful of caraway seeds, and mix into three-quarters of a pound of flour; add three eggs beaten Avith half a gill of milk; put the cake into a tin and bake in a moderate oven about fifty minutes. Turn out to cool. 685. YULE CAKE, Put one pound of sifted flour into a large basin; add a salt- spoonful of salt; dissolve a quarter of an ounce of German yeast in half a pint of tepid Avater, and stir into the flour with a Avooden spoon; cover the basin Avith a thick cloth, and let it stand in a Avarm place for an hour to rise. Add half a pound of good butter, beaten to cream, half a pound of moist sugar, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated; three-quarters of a pound ol currants, Avell Avashed and dried, four ounces of mixed candied peel, chopped, and tAvo beaten fresh eggs; Avhen Avell niLxed, jAut the cake into a tin that Avill hold tAvice the quantity, and bake in a moderate oven about an hour and three quarters or two horn's. Turn it out of the tin to get cold.