JUNIOR UNITED AND rillNCE ALBERT'S PUDDINGS. 181 488. JUNIOK UNITED PUDDING. Cut into slices, a quarter of an inch thick, half a pound of sponge-cake two days old; spread one side Avith fresh butter (three ounces for the whole) and the other Avith marmalade (half a pound for the pudding). Boil tAA'o ounces of loaf sugar in half a pint of neAV milk; beat four fresh eggs; add the milk to the eggs Avhile W, but not boiling. Butter a plain tin pint and a half moAxld ; lay in the cake (buttered side next the tin) and custard alternately to full. Let it stand half an hour to soak; then bake in a Avell-heated oven for an hour and ten minutes. Turn out carefiilly, and serve, Avith or Avithout the folloAving siiuce in the dish. 489. OEANGE CEEAM FOE PUDDINGS. Boil two ormces of loaf sugar and tAvo inches of the peel of a SeAulle orange in half a gill of water for ten minutes; add the strained juice of a sweet orange and a tablespoonful of rum; boU fast for three minutes; then beat it into a gill of thick cream. It must be very smooth, and beaten till nearly cold. 490. PEINCE ALBEET’s PUDDING. Half a pound of butter beaten to cream, half a pound of dried Hour, a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, half a pound of raisins—stoned and chopped, a quarter of a pound of mixed candied peel, chopped, half a Avineglassful of brandy, the gi-ated rind of half a lemon, a gill of neAV milk, and four beaten eggs; mix these ingredients and beat for ten minutes. Butter a mould ; put in the mixture, tie a* cloth over, and boil fast for tAvo hours; serA'e Avith clarified sugar, flavoured with brandy. Boil three ounces of sugar in a Avinegla.ssful of Avater for ten minutes; add a Avineglassful of brandy. Pour the sauce over the pudding. 491. PEINCE OF WALES’S PUDDING. Dis.solve a quarter of a pound of fresh butter till of a creamy substance; beat six fresh eggs, leaving out tAvo of the Avhites; break up into coar.se crumbs, tAvo ounces of macaroons and one ounce of ratafias; mix these ingredients; add tAvo ounces of sifted loaf sugar and a wincglassliil of good brandv; beat the mixture for ten minutes; butter a tin mould, pour it in, and