HASTY PUDDING, CUSTABD. PANCAKES. 279 moist sugar, the grated lind of a lemon; stir till nearly cold, then add two well-beaten eggs. Butter a dish, pour in the pudding, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes, or boil in a basin for half an hour. May be served hot or cold. 837. HASTY PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. Put a pint and a half of new milk into a skillet; when it boils, shake in a breakfastcup full of well-baked flour, stirring with a wooden spoon aU the time. Boil ten minutes. Turn the pudding on to the dish ; make a hole in the centre, and fill it with either treacle or marmalade, and serve. 838. SCOTCH HASTY PUDDING. Dry before the fire or in the oven a breakfastcup full of Scotch oatmeal; boil a pint and a half of new milk ; stir in the oatmeal; boil for a quarter of an hour. Turn the pudding into a dish; make a hole in the centre, and fill it with treacle. Serve very hot. 839. CUSTAED WITHOUT EGGS, WITH FRUIT. Mix a large tablespoonful of Oswego and two tablespoonfuls of sugar with a little cold milk. Boil a pint of milk Avith the thin peel of half a lemon and a laurel leaf; let it stand olF the fire for ten minutes; take out the peel and leaf, pour the milk over the Oswego, stiiTing all the time ; put it into a saucepan, and boil for two minutes; turn it into a basin and stir it till it is cool. Put half a poimd of marmalade, or sweetened summer frtiit, into a dish ; pour the custard over, and stand it in a cool place tiU wanted. Sweeten the fruit as follows:—A pint of fine red cur- rants and a pint of fresh raspberries, both nicely picked; put them into a dish with a quarter of a pound of good moist sugar, and a tablespoonful of Avater, and let them saturate for six hours or longer. Stir them frequently, and use as directed. 840. PANCAKES WITHOUT EGGS. Mix four table.spoonfuls of dried flour Avith a pint of mild ale; beat the batter for a quarter of an hour. Dissolve half an ounce of fre.sh dripping, or lard in a small fryingpan, pour in a foiuth part of the batter, and fiy both sides a pale broAvn colour. Place the pancakes one on the other, Avith a dessertspoonful of moist