Opinions of the Press. / 39 ‘ “Cre-Fydd ” has no cause to dread the criticism of us, or tliat of any other journalist. The book is quite new in its plan and execution. It is the sound guide for the middle class, whose incomes are moderate, in matters of Cookery and Housekeeping. “Hints to the Mistress.”—Here suggestions are made as to the hiring of servants, tlie contents of the store-closet, the giving out those stores, and the time they ought to Inst, keeping accounts, ordering dinners, and checking tradesmen’s bills. Next are “ Hints to Ser- vants ’’—Equal good sense and knowledge appear under this head. We can without hesitation recommend it as an invaluable guide to those persons “who are about to marry.” Cheltenham E.xamineb, March 20, 1864. 40 ‘ As far as we can judge, the various recipes given bear all the appearance of excellence combined with a consistent regard to cheapness. A bill of fare for every day in the year is given; also necessary arrangements for small and large dinner and evening parties, with the average costs attached.’ Bath Journ.^l, March 5, 1864. 41 ‘ The old adage says “ Too many cooks spoil the broth,” and possibly too many cookery books may spoil the cooks; but if there is not room for an additional one, v\e must cer- tainly displace one of our older guides to make room for the new comer with its quaint Cambrian title, for it has special features of its own, which, when it is generally known, will, we feel sure, give it an equal circulation to the most celebrated manuals. We notice some special features which ought to make Cre-fydd’s book a treasure to housekeepers and cooks. Besides the actual receipts and lists of dishes, there are some valuable hints to young housekeepers on household matters; and that great desideratum, a Dietary for the Sick Chamber, for the want of which many an invalid goes dinnerless, in spite of the best wishes and lavish expenditure. We heartily recommend “ Cre-fydd’s Family Fare ” as one of the best and most practical cookery books yet published.’ Bath Express, March 12, 1864. 42 ‘ It is an additional recommendation to find that “ the quantity of every ingredient used is carefully gpven, as well as the exact time required in cooking.” Each receipt is perfect in itself. The book contains much novel and excellent information, in a shape we have not before met with.’ Western Daily Press, Jan. 25, 1864. 43 ‘ “ What shall we have for dinner to-day?” was the title of a very popular little book, which proposed to answer rather a puzzling question. The work before us, however, directs us not only in matters of dinner, but in matters of breakfast also. Cre-Fydd is entitled to public thanks, and we hope will receive public support for her useful volume.’ Bristol Times,/an. 22, 1864. 44 ‘ This is a very complete and useful book on all matters relating to cookery and house- keeping. This book is, in many respects, new in design, and its object is to teach the young ^usekeeper not only how to serve a good dinner, but how to do it in the most economical way. It also contains recipes for almost every dish that even an epicure could desire, and these possess the merit of perspicuity, a merit which is thoroughly appre- ciated by the uninitiated in the culinary art; and we are told that they have passed the ordeal of fastidious and almost morbidly critical palates, and have come lorth with approval. Great labour has evidently been bestowed on the work, and it may be recom- mended with confidence.’ Hampshire Telegraph and Sussex Chronicle, March 12, 1864. TTiis is called “ The young housewife’s daily assistant on all matters relating to cookery and housekeeping,” and it is certdinly in every way worthy of its title. Every receipt is wnttoi in a plain style that can be easily understood, and altogether the work is one of the best of the kind we have ever read.’ Hampshire Independent, March 19, 1864. B B