164 VEGETA I) LKS. 424. SPINACIL Pick oiF tlie stem of each leaf and avoid using any that are old or discoloured ; wash the spinach in several waters, and put it into a quart of boiling water, with a dessertspoonful of salt; press it down, and let it boil rapidly (uncovered) for ten or twelve minutes; drain it through a sieve, and press out all the water; mince quite fine, and put it into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, half the quantity of white pepper, and a teaspoonful of sifted sugar ; stir for six or eight minutes. Place the spinach on a vegetable-dish, smooth it over with a knife, and cut it into triangles ; garnish with fried sippets. Cut a slice of bread into small three-cornered pieces, and fry to a pale brown colour in plenty of butter or oil. 425. SPINACH, WITH POACHED EGGS. Pick, wash, and boil the spinach as directed in the preceding receipt; press out all the water, and rub the spinach through a fine wire sieve ; add two ounces of fresh butter, a dessertspoonful of sifted sugar, a saltspoonful of salt, the eighth part of a nutmeg, gi-ated, half a grain of cayenne, and stir over a quick fire for ten minutes; mix in half a gill of thick cream, and serve imme- diately. Break four fresh eggs into separate cups; have a small bright omelet pan full of boiling water, put in a saltspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of vinegar; pour in carefully one egg at the time; as one sets put in another; they wiU require three minutes; take them out with a slice, Avipe off the Avater, and place the eggs neatly on the spinach, having smoothed it over Avith a knife. 426. STEWED ENDIVE. Cut off the stem and the outer leaAms, Avash it in several Avaters. Put it into boihug Avater, and bod quickly for a quarter of an hour ; drain, and press out all the AA'ater ; put it into a steAA'pan, Avith an ounce of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, the same of pepper ; stir in a gill of thick cream, and serve. 427. SOKREL. Take off the stems, and Avash the leaves in several Avaters. Put it into boiling AA'ater, Avith a tablespoonful of salt, and boil