PUDDINGS, PASTIiY, JELLIKS, CP.EAil, ETC. 19G 543. SWKET SAUCE. Knead an ounce of fresh butter witli a table.spoonful of Ijaked flour, and stir into the third of a pint of boiling milk ; add two tablespoonfuls of moist sugar ; boil ten minutes ; then stir in two tablespoonfuls of cream, and jjour the sauce over the pudding. 544. DERBYSHIEE PUDDING. Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour with a pint of netv milk, and boil till it thickens. When quite cold, add three ounces of butter beaten to a cream, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, well beaten. Butter a dish, put an ornamental thin paste round the edge; mix the pudding well, pour it into tlie dish, and bake in a quick oven about tAventy-five minutes. Serve either hot or cold, with sifted sugar over the top. 545. HASTY PUDDING, YOliKSIIIRE. Put a pint and a half of new milk into a bright .skillet, take a large cup of well-di’ied flour, shake it into the milk while boiling, stirring quickly all the time; boil ten minutes; add four well- beaten eggs; stu- for four minutes more, and seiwe, Avith a jug of thick cream, or small pats of I’resh butter. Preserves or sugar according to taste. 546. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Three eggs, a pint of milk, four tablespoonfuls of flour, and half a saltspoonful of salt; beat the eggs, mix in the flour, add the milk by degrees, and beat the batter for a quarter of an hour. Grease a tin dish, pour in the batter, and place it before a Large lire, over a chafing-dish, under the meat j’ou are roasting, an hour before serA'ing. If you have no chafing-dish, an hour and a half AviU be necessary; and the pudding must be turned to broAAUi both sides. Cut it doAvn the centre lengtlnvise. and each piece into fl)ur, and serA^c at the same time as the moat. Beet is the most usual and the best. 547. GOOSE-BLOOD PUDDING, Y’ORKSIIIRE. The goose must be bled into a quarter of a pint of prepared o-i-oats; add to this a cpiarter of a pound of wcll-AA*ashed currants,