41 DEOILED AND FBIED PLAICE. BOILED EELS. and tho following sauce (cold) in tlie centre:—Boil five fresh eggs for ten minutes; when quite cold, pound the yolks to 250wder; season with a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, a salt- spoonful of dty salt, and a quarter of a grain of cayenne. Add the well-beaten yolks of two fresh eggs; stir (always turning the same way) till in a smooth paste; then add, by degrees, six tablespoonfuls of salad (Lucca) oil, and, drop by drop, a dessert- spoonful of tarragon and two tablespoonfuls of the best French vinegar. Continue to stir quickly till the sauce is of the con- sistency of very thick smooth cream ; set it in a cool place or on ice for one hour; add a teaspoonful of finely chopped chives, and serve as directed above. Note.—When chives are not to be had, substitute a teaspoonful of chopped shalot and parsley, mixed. 119. BOILED PLAICE. Large plaice is best for boiling; put it into plenty of hot water, with a tablespoonful of salt and a wineglassful of vinegar; boil up quickly, skim, then simmer gently for twenty or twenty- five minutes. Serve on a neatly folded napkin, with either shrimp sauce or melted butter in a tureen. 120. FKIED PLAICE. Cut the fish across into pieces three inches broad; rub it over with the juice of a lemon, and sprinkle it with a teaspoonful of salt; let it stand for two hours. Eoll it in a clean cloth to dry; dip each piece into beaten egg, dredge it lightly with dry floirr, and fry over a gentle fire in plenty of boiling salad oil, till of a bright yellow colour. Serve on writing paper, either hot or cold. Note.—The time will depend on the thickness of the fish—from twelve to twenty minutes. If a thick fish, the pan must be at a greater distance from the fire, and the colour must servo as a guide to it being done. 121. BOILED EELS, WITH PARSLEY SAUCE. The eel should weigh about one pound and a half when the skin and fins are removed; put it into plenty of cold water, with a tablespoonful of salt and a dessertspoonful of vinegar; boil up quickly, skim, and simmer gently for twenty-five minutes.