131 MAEENGO OF FOAVL. BRAISED FOAVL. truffles, cleaned and cut up; one shalot, a sprig of thyme, four sprigs of parsley, and a bay leaf. Boil up quickly; then simmer tiU the fowl is a pale yellow colour (about three-quarters of an hour). Make the following sauce :—Clean twelve button mush- rooms, chop two slialots and one truffle; put them into a saucepan with sufficient of the oil the fowl is cooked in to well moisten them ; stir over a quick fire for ten minutes. Add a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of sifted sugar, the juice of a lemon (strained), and half a gill of Marsala. Drain the fowl on a cloth, place it neatly on a hot dish, poiu the sauce over, and send to table immediately. 341. MARENGO OF FOWL. Cut a fine young fowl into joints, divide the legs from the thighs, and the pinions fi-om the wings; cut the breast off" the bone in foru neat slices. Put the prime pieces into a basin ot cold water, with a teaspoonful of salt, half a clove of garlic, and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar; let them remain for three hours. Put the remainder of the fowl in a saucepan, with a small carrot and an onion, sliced, half a pound of gravy beef, a quarter of a pound of lean veal, two ounces of ham, one clove, a small blade of mace, and an ounce of butter ; let it stand by the fire to brown the meat; add a quart of Avater, boil up quickly, skim; then simmer for three hours. Knead two ounces of butter with a tablespoonful of flour; stir it into the gravy and boil fast, tlU it is reduced to half a pint; then strain. Add twelve button mush- rooms, nicely cleaned, and a wineglassftj of Madeira or Marsala. Wipe the foAvl dry, dredge it with baked flour, and fry it in butter (six oimces) till of a deep yelloAV colour (about half an hour). Boil six good-sized potatoes; mash them Avith a wooden spoon ; add a salt.spoonfnl of salt, tAvo ounces of butter, and four tablespoonfuls of good cream ; beat till quite light and smooth. Lay the potatoes in the centre of a hot dish in the form of a cone; place the fowl neatly round, resting on the potatoes ; pour over the sauce, and serve immediately. 342. BRAISED FOWL, WITH TOMATOES. Have a fine young fowl trussed for boiling; cover the breast Avith writing paper, thickly spread with butter (three ounces). Make a stewpan hot, rub the bottom three times across with a K 2