SHIS OF BEEF. BEEF STEAK PIE. ■253 748. STEWED SHIN OF BEEF. Have a shin of beef about six pounds weight, divided into six pieces. Slice two onions, two carrots, one turnip, one head of celery. Tie in a piece of muslin four clove.s, six allspice, eight peppercorns, a laurel leaf, a bay leaf, two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, one of marjoram. Put the Avhole into an iron pot with three pints of water, and simmer as gently as possible for four hours. As .soon as it begins to boil, skim very carefully, and continue to do so till done. When it has simmered for two hours, put in a tablespoonful of moist sugar, a dessertspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of fi-esh-made mustard, a teaspoonful of black pepper, half a grain of cayenne, a dessertspoonful of good anchovy-sauce, and a tablespoonful of vinegar. When done, skim off all the fat, and take out the muslin bag, and serve. 749. SHIN OF BEEF, WITH CABBAGE. (Second dressing.) Take out the bones of what remains of the stew, cut up the meat into small pieces, chop a cupful of pickled red cabbage, mix it with the meat, and put it with the gravy into a stetvpau. Simmer ten minutes, and serve. 750. BEEF STEAK AND ONIONS. Cut three or four onions into thin slice.s, and steep them in cold water, with a teaspoonful of salt in it, for two hours, Drain off the water, and spread the onions on a cloth before the fire to diy. Put three ounces of good dripping into a fryingpan, and when it is melted put in the onions. Sprinkle over a saltspoonful of pepper and a salt.spoonful of salt; turn them constantly, and fry to a nice brown colour. Have the steak off the buttock, and cut half an inch thick ; broil it over a brisk fire for ten or fiflecu miniates; turn it twice with steak-tongs or by placing a fork in the fat or skin. Serve the steak on a very hot dish, with the onions .strewed over it. 751. BEEF STEAK PIE. About two pounds and a half of steak, half an inch thick, cut into pieces three inches long and two broad ; season with three