112 VEAL. lemon, sti'ainecl, and half a saltspoonful of salt; sliniuer ten minutes; add a gill of cream, and serve. Note.—The receipt is written for two sets. 297. calf’s BEAINS WITH BROWN SAUCE. Take off the skin; wash the brains weU in cold water; put them into a saucepan with a quart of water, a tablespoonful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of salt, a clove of garlic, and boil for a quarter of an hour; draiu on a sieve. Dissolve two ounces of butter ; dip in the brains; dredge them with baked flour ; place them on a tin dish, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quar- ters of an hour; baste frequently with the butter. Chop two .shalots, two mushrooms ; put them into a saucepan, with a table- spoonful of vinegar, a tablespoonful of rum, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, half a grain of cayenne, a teaspoonful of loaf sugar, half a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of cuiry-powder, and stir over the fire for ten minutes. Kuead an ounce of butter with a dessertspoonful of baked flour ; add that and the third of a pint of stock (No. 1); simmer, and stir for a quarter of an horn-. Place the brains on a dish, pour the saiice over, and serve. 298. MIXED MINCED-MEAT CARES. Mince quite fine a quarter of a pound of beef steak, a quarter of a poimd of veal cutlet, half a pound of lean pork, two ounce“ of ham, fat and lean, one shalot; season with a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful (piled) of pepper, half a grain of cayenne, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, and a saltspoonful of anchovy-sauce; add an ounce of fine crumbs of bread. When these ingredients are well mixed, add two well-beaten eggs, leaving out one Avhite; make tlie meat up into cakes three inches across and half an inch thick; bru.sh them over with white of egg, and dredge them Avell with baked flour. Fry in boiling fat for eighteen minutes, or broil over a bright fire. 299. MINCED-MEAT PATE. Mince the meat as directed in the preceding receipt. Rub a pie-dish three times across Avith garlic, lay at the bottom a very thin slice of fat bacon, press in the meab cover it with a quarter