MUTTON. 60 miitton, leaving about the eighth of an inch tliick n, and quite evenly cut; put the mutton into a stewpan, with a teacupful of made gravy, a teacupful of mixed pickles, a dessertspoonfid of chutney, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, a teaspoonful of soy, a tablespoonful of pickle vinegar, and half a grain of cayenne. Simmer very gently for one hour ; baste the mutton frequently with the gi'avy. Skim off all the fat, and serve very hot. 177. FILLET OP MUTTOX. (Second dressing.) Cut a neat compact piece (about a poimd and a half) off a cold roast leg of mutton ; put it into a stewpan, Avith an onion, finely chopped, three large mushrooms, finely chopped, an ounce of ljutter, kneaded Avith a dessertspoonful of baked flour, the strained juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, a teacupful of gravy; simmer very gently for three- quarters of an hour; shake the steAvpan frequently, and baste the mutton Avith the graAy; skim off aU the fat; add a small Avineglassful of Marsala, and serve at once. • 178. POUNDED MUTTON CUTLETS IN ITALIAN PASTE, WITH TARTAR SAUCE. (Second dressing.) Half a pound of cold roast mutton, without fat or skin, three ounces of cooked ham, and a piece of garlic the size of a pea, pounded to a paste; season with a saltspoonful of pepper, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, an ounce of dissolved butter, and three tablespoonfuls of mutton gravy; mix Avell, and let it stand in a cool place for an hour. Make a paste as folloAvs :—Beat the yolk of an egg Avith three tablespoonfuls of cold Avater; mix it into six ounces of dried flour, and knead to a firm paste; roll it out as thin as a shilling, cut it into three equal sized squares, and each square into tAvo triangles; divide the meat into six parts ; put one into each piece of paste, turn it OA'er, and trim it to the form of a cutlet; press the edges to make them adliere; put them into a steAvpan half full of boiling fat, and fry to a pale broAvn colour (tAvelve minutes) ; drain on a sicA'e before the fire for three minutes, then serve AA'ith the folloAA'ing sauce :—Boil four eggs ten minutes; AAdicn cold, pound the yolks to poAvder;