99 STEWED BREAST OF VEAL. place the veal (larding uppermost) on it ; spread a quarter of a pound of good butter on half a sheet of foolscap paper, and place over the veal; peel and slice a large onion, a small carrot, half a head of celery, two large mushrooms, one large truffle, and half of a small timnip ; put these, with the veal trimmings, round the veal; add three-quarters of a pint of stock or water, a tea- spoonfid of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, a bay leaf, a laurel leaf, two cloves, the thin rind of half a lemon, a teaspoonful of sifted sugar ; boil up quickly, skim, then simmer very gently for three hours. Remove the paper, baste the veal, and continue to simmer half an hour longer. Take out the veal, skim off all the fat, rub the gravy through a fine sieve; add the strained juice of a lemon, and serve with the gravy in the dish, or with either spinach, soivel, or young green peas, dressed as directed in each receipt, and mixed with a teacupful of the gravy. 272. STEWED BREAST OF VEAL, STUFFED. Have a square piece of the breast of veal, about four pounds. Make a stuffing as follows :—Chop six ounces of suet, pound two ounces of lean ham and the hard yoke of an egg ; mix these Avith an ounce of fine crumbs of bread, a teaspoonful of chopped par.sley, a piece of garlic as big as a pea, bruised, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, the peel of half a lemon, grated, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, a saltspoonful of pepper, a saltspoonful of mixed SAveet herbs, and two Avell-beaten eggs. Cut off the skin of the veal carefully Avith a sharp knife; spread the stuffing equally over the veal, leaving a quarter of an inch all round; brush the tAvo edges Avith beaten egg; place on the skin, and scAv it round Avith a coar.se needle and thread; put the veal into a stcAvpan, Avith an onion, a lettuce, a carrot, tAvo cloves, four pep- percorns, a small piece of mace, a laurel leaf, a bay leaf, a large mushroom (the vegetables all cut up), a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, a teaspoonful of sifted sugar, and a pint of stock (No. 2). Put three thin slices of fat bacon on the veal; boil up quickly ; skim, then simmer, very gently, for three hours and a half. Take out the veal, place it in the oven; skim off every particle of fat from the gravy; stir in a dessertspoonful of baked flour; boil up, and strain through a fine sieve. Put the H 2