297 PEKSERVED MELON, ETC. lor a quarter of an hour, skimming if necessary. Lay it in the dish, and tlie next day put it into pots, and tie down. Note.—The parings (not the outside) may he put into i-um or brandy with half a pound of loaf sugar to one pound of parings, and kept for fla- vouring jellies, creams, or punch. 895. PRESERVED MELON. The melons mu.st be perfectly sound and not over-ripe. Pare and quarter them, and, if large, cut each quarter into two; take out the pulp; place it on a sieve, Avith a basin under, to receive the juice from it. Weigh the melon, and put it into an earthen pan; coA’^er it Avith cold Avater, Avith salt and vinegar in it (a tea- .spoouful of salt and a dessertspoonfid of French vinegar to three pints of Avater ; let it remain in this pickle for twenty-six hours; then Avash and drain it. Take the same Aveight of loaf sugar as of fruit; put it into a skillet Avith the juice from the pulp, and boil, skimming carefully, till it becomes a bright syrup. Put the melon into the .syrup Avhen cold; boil up sloAvly, skim, then simmer gently for a quarter of an hour. Put the melon carefully into a basin ; pour the syrup over it, and let it remain for tluee days; each day drain off the syrup; boil it fast for three minutes; then‘pour it over the melon. The last time of boiling- up the syrup, add one ounce of ginger, slightly bruised. Put the melon into a jar, pour the syrup over, and place the ginger on the top; the ne.xt day, tie it closely doAvn. Note.—Cucumbers may be preseived in this waj’ and arc excellent. 89G. PRESERVED SIBERIAN CRAB APPLES. Wipe the apjiles Avithout breaking the skin, and prick each through three or foAir times Avith a fine needle ; Aveigh them, and to every pound alloAv a pound of loaf sugar, tAvo tablespoonfuls of gin, and the strained juice of half a lemon. Put the sugar, gin, and lemon-juice into a preserving-pan, and boil and skim till in a bright syrup; then put in the fruit, and simmer very gently till the skin is slightly cracked. Drain the fruit, and put it carefully into jars. Boil the syrup quickly lor ten minute.s, and Avhen nearly cold, pour it over the fruit; the next day, tie the jars over Avith cap paper.