319 CLEANING GILT FRAMES AND PLATE. 981. TO CLEAN" GILT FEAMES, ETC. A gill of good vinegar in a pint of cold water, a large camel’s hair brush (a shaving brush will do), and clean soft cloths. The frame must be perfectly free from dust. Dip the brush into the liquid, and squeeze ft slightly, that it may not be too wet; brush the gilding (a small piece at a time) lightly, up and down, till it is quite restored. The brush must be constantly washed; and in finishing, it should be squeezed dry, and the gilding brushed till dry. Frames and other gilt articles should be dusted daily ■with a soft brush, and never touched with a cloth. By observing this, and cleaning every two years, covering will be found quite unnecessary, and the gilding will always be in good order. The liquid must be renewed when dirty. 982. PASTE FOE CLEANING PLATE. Break up two cakes of whiting into three pints of cold water, stir it well, so as to wash out all the grit, then let it stand till it settles to the bottom ; pour off the water, and put the whiting into the oven to dry. Scrape off the sandy sediment. Dissolve three-quarters of a pmmd of soft soap ; mix half of the whiting into it; add three-quarters of a giU of spirit of wine; stir till in a soft paste, then put it into covered pots; the rest of the whiting to be kept in a lump for polishing. \ 983. TO CLEAN PLATE. The plate should be well washed in hot water {without soda). Dip a piece of soft flannel into cold water, then into the paste {see foregoing receipt); rub till all tarnish disappears ; wipe off’ the past with a .soft cloth, then polish with wash-leather and dry prepared whiting. Brush the carved edges and between the prongs of the forks; finish with a clean wash-leather. If plate be cleaned thus once a fortnight, and rubbed daily, it will always be in beautiful order. 984. MAGIC PASTE. (For Vermin.) For destroying beetles, crickets, rats, mice, &c.; to be had of .James Brown, 27 Gordon Terrace, Wharf Koad, King’s Cross. It has been tried and found effective, and without disagreeable smell.