FEIED SALMON. SALMON CUTLETS. 23 of ^Marsala, a saltspoonful of ^alt, half a grain of cayenne, a mustardspoonful of freKh-made mustard, and the third of a pint of stock (No. 2). Boil sloAvly for twenty minutes, stirring and skimming occasionally; strain. Add two tablespoonfuls of capers; boil fast foi five minutes, and serve as directed. tiS. FKIED SALMON, WITH TAETAR SAUCE. Two slices of salmon, three-quarters of an inch thick, out of the middle of a moderate-sized fish, will be sufficient for four or six persons. Wash the salmon in water with a handful of salt in it, and roll it in a clean cloth to dry. Season an ounce of fine crumbs of bread with the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, a quarter of a saltspoonfiil of white pepper, and a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. Dissolve two ounces of butter ; dip in the fish, and strew it over with crumbs. Fry in half a pound of boiling butter or lard over a gentle fire for eighteen or twenty minutes. Drain, and serve on a cold dish, with _the following sauce in the centre :—Boil five eggs for twelve minutes, and, when quite cold, pound the yolks to powder. Mix in a saltspoon- ful of salt, a teaspoonful of flour of mu.stard, and a quarter of a grain of cayenne; beat the yolks of two fresh eggs, and stir in (always turning the same way) till quite smooth; then add, drop by drop, seven tablespoonfuls of the finest salad (Lucca) oil, three teaspoonfuls of taixagon vinegar, and three tablespoonfuls of French vinegar ; set the mortar in a cold place or on ice for one horrr; then stir in a teaspoonful of finely-chopped chives or shalot, and serve as directed. Note.—The sauce should bo made half an hour before the fish is com- menced. It shoidd be perfectly smooth, and of the consistency of very thick cream—which entirely depends on the care in making. 56. SALMON CUTLETS, WITH INDIAN SAUCE. Have four slices, the third of an inch thick, out of the middle of a moderate-sized fi.sh, .strip off the skin, take out the bone, and cut each slice into two. Wash and well dry each piece. Mix a tablespoonful of baked flour with a saltspoonful of .salt and a tea- spoonful of cuiTy powder, and put it into a dredger. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a soup plate, rubbed three times across