A FEW THINGS WORTH KNOWING. 316 969. WASH FOK STKEXGTIIEXLVG THE HAIR. Half a pint of lioney water, two ounces of spirit of rosemar*', one ounce of pulverised sweet almonds, and one ounce of solutif;n of ammonia. To be used occasionally. 970. irARROW POMATUM. "Wash and soak in cold water one pound of frcsli beef-marrow ; squeeze out the water, put the marrow into an earthen jar, and put it in boiling water till the marrow is dissolved; then .strain it through muslin into a basin. When nearly cold, but not set, stir in by degrees six ounces of pure olive oil, more or less as it rriav be prel’erred firm or soft, and either of the following essential oils to perfume it:—Otto of roses, tiventy drops ; orange flowers, thirty drops; magnolia, twenty drops; lavender, forty di'ops; bergamot or lemon, forty drops. 971. COSMETIC FOR FIXING THE HAIR. Take off the skin of half a pound of fresh mutton suet; pick out the pieces of bone and the discolopred parts of a quarter of a pound of fresh beef-suet; boil them down in an earthen jar till dissolved ; then strain, and, when cool, but not set, add two drops of essential oil of nutmeg, two drops of essential oil of cinnamon, and eight drops of essential oil of orange flowers. Pour it into moulds four inches long, either round or any other form ; and when cold, fold each in tinfoil or lead paper. 972. POMATUM FOR CHILDREN’S HAIR. Pick carefully and wash a quarter of a pound of beef-marrow: put it into an earthen jar, with a quarter of a pound of fresh Lard: stand it in boiling Avater till melted and clear; then strain it into a basin, add a gill of rose Avater. Stir it Avell, and let it get cold. Break it up, and squeeze it through the rose Avatcr till it begins to be soft; then pre.ss out the Avater, and beat it Avith a A\-oodon fork ; add one ounce of pure olive oil and lialfan ounce of A’iolet- scented oil. Beat till it is quite smooth, and put it into covered toilet pots. (Thn mi.ving wer/ kind of pomatum is better to be done in a cool place; more particul.arly AA'hen castor oil is used.)