200 rODDING.?, PASTIIY, JELLIES, CREAM, ETC. ' laurel leaf, till quite soft (an hour and a half). Take out the leaf, and let the rice stiind.off the lire for five minutes; then stir in, by degrees, four fresh eggs, well beaten, and half a gill of thick cream. Stir over the fire till at boiling heat; then let it stand, .and stir it occasionally till nearly cold. Put it into a gla.ss dish (or a pie-dish), and stand it in a cold place for two hours. Just before serving, siic over the surface a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon or burnt almond dust. 561. BURNT ALMOND DUST FOR PUDDINGS. Blanch two ounces of sweet almonds, and bake them in a mode- rate oven till browned through, then pound them to dust. 562. DIPLOM.ATIC PUDDING. Put half a pint of cream, four ounces of loaf sugar, and the gi'ated rind of a lemon into an enamelled saucepan, and place it over a gentle fire ; when nearly boiling, stir in six ounces of crumbs of bread, one ounce of flour, three ounces of beef-suet, and one ounce of beef-marrow, chopped; stir over the fire for ten minutes; then turn it into a basin to get cold. Stone and mince two ounces of Muscadel raisins, chop two omices of can- died orange-peel, wash and rub dry two ounces of currants and one ounce of sultana raisins, beat four fresh eggs; mix these ingredients together; add the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, a wineglassful of rum, and a wineglassful of orange wine; beat the mixture for a quarter of an hour, or longer. Butter a moifld, .stick it fancifully with Muscadel raisins, put in the pudding, tie it closely over, and boil rapidly for three hours, or bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Serve with the following sauce in the dish :—Dissolve three ounces of loaf sugar in the strained juice of two sweet oranges; boil till it becomes a thick syrup; tlien add three table.spoonfuls of rum. 563. PARISLAN PUDDING. I\Iix two ounces of ground rice with a pint of good cream, and stir it over a slow fire till it thickens ; beat the whites of four and the yolks of six fresh eggs, and add to the cream while it isworwi, but not hot. Let the mixture get cold, then add the following ingredients:—Two ounces of beet-suet, one ounce of beef-