288 CONDIMENT AND OTHER SAUCES, KETCHUP, ETC. ■with a coarse cloth, and throw the onions into tlie brine as they are done. Let them remain for twenty-four hours, then drain, and wipe them quite dry. Put them into wide-mouthed bottles or jars, and cover them with vinegar prepared as follotvs:—To every quart of white wine vinegar add a teaspoonfid of white peppercorns, half a saltspoonful of white mustard seed, and a saltspoonfid of coriander seed. Boil up slowly; let it simmer for three minutes, and when cold, pom’ it over the onions. Cork, and tie over with leather. To be kept three weeks or longer before using. 864. PICKLED BED CABBAGE. (To be made in August or September.) Trim off all the outside tough leaves and cut out the stalks; jiull the cabbages to pieces, and wash and wipe each leaf; cut them up into shreds, lay them on a large sieve, and sprinkle them with salt, about a quarter of a pound to a large cabbage; stir with the hands, so that the salt may be well mixed Avith the cabbage. The next day, put it into a clean soft cloth, and Avipe it quite dry. Put it into jars, and covered Avith vinegar prepared as folloAvs :—To every quart of A’inegar, add three-quarters of an ounce of briiised ginger, three cloves, eight allspice, a tea- spoonful of black peppercorns, tAvo long peppers, and a tloick slice of boiled beetroot. Boil for three minutes, and pour it over the cabbage. When cold, tie it closely over and keep for six Aveeks before using. 865. PICKLED BEETROOT AKD SPANISH ONIONS. (To be made-in October.) Bake the beetroot in a moderately heated OA’en till tender (about tAvo hours); Avhen quite cold, peel, and slice it the sixth of an inch thick. Peel and slice, of the same tliickness, an equal quantity of sound Spanish onions. Put them in jars in alternate layers, and cover them Avith vinegar prepared in the folloAving manner :—To every quart of vinegar add a tcaspoonful of salt, a small blade of mace, a quarter of an ounce of AA’hole ginger, eight black pejipercorns, tAvo cloAms, four allspice, and three grains of cayenne. Boil for three minutes, and Avhen cold potir it oA'er the vegetables. Put an equal quantity of the spice in each jar.