nsn. ■iO tin dish six times across with garlic, put in the fish, pour over the remainder of the butter, and bake in a quick oven for eighteen or twenty minutes. Place the fillets in a circle on the dish, and serve very hot. 117. FILLETS OF SOLES, ITITII MUSSEL SAUCE. Fillet a pair of moderate-sized soles; wash and wipe them dry; rub them over with lemon juice, and let them stand for an hour. Clean two quarts of mussels; put them into a saucepan, with half a clove of garlic, a blade of mace, a laurel leaf, four sprigs of parsley, an inch of thin lemon-peel, one clove, two all- spice, and a dessertspoonful of salt (no water) ; shake the pan constantly till the mussels open, then turn them into an earthen pan. Pull out the Aveed from under the black tongue, and remove the beard fi-om each mussel; strain the liquor ; put the soles into a steAvpan, Avith half a gill of the liquor, tAvo ounces of butter, and a Avineglassful of Madeira or Marsala; boil up quickly; then simmer for fifteen minutes. Put the remainder of the mussel liquor into a small saucepan, boil up, and skim; put in the mussels, boil for tAvo minutes; then add the beaten yolks of three fresh eggs, Avith half a gill of thick cream; stir till smooth. Lay the soles neatly on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve at once. 118. FILLETS OP SOLES, WITH TAETAE SAUCE. (Italian fashion.) Eub tAvo ounces of fresh butter into half a pound of Avell-dried sifted flour; beat the yolk of a fresh egg with half a gLU of cold Avater, and mix into the floui-; knead it to a stiff dry paste, and let it stand tAVO hours in a cool place; roll it out as thin as a shilling, and cut it into eight pieces about four inches long and six inches Avide. Cut a good-sized sole into eight fillets; nib each piece over Avith lemon juice, put it into the paste, A\-et the edges, fold it over, and press it Avith the thumb to make both edges adhere; trim it to the shape of the fillet, and, Avhen they are all done, fry them in a bright steivpan of boiling lard, over a gentle fire, till of a yelloAV-broAvn colour (about half an hour); drain on a sieve before the fire for three minutes. Place the fillets on a cold dish in a circle, each one resting on the other.