GAME. 146 Lay tlie beef on a hot dish, pour over the vegetables, nuts, and graAT-; add the strained j nice of a lemon, and serve lx>th dishes very hot. Note.—The bacon may be broiled for three minutes and served at breakfast. 373. PHEASANT WITH TEUFFLES. (An Italian receipt) Wash, peel, and slice six large truffles; put the truffles into the body of a young pheasant, nicely trassed; pound the peel ■with half a clove of garlic, and knead it with one pound of fresh lard. Put the pheasant into an oval deep dish or pan, cover it with the lard ; add three sprigs of parsley, one sprig of thjune, a bay leaf, a saltspoonful of salt, four peppercorns, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, one clove, three slices of carrot, and a "wine- glassfiil of rum; cover it closely, and put it into a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour ; then let it remain for two or three days to imbibe the flavour of the truffles. When required, take it out of the fat; envelope it in paper, spread thickly with butter, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Strain the gra-vy; add a teacupftil of any stock, with a dessert- spoonful of baked flour, half a saltspoonful of salt, the same of loaf sugar; boil ten minutes; take tlie paper off the pheasant; add the dripped gra'vy and the butter to the rest. Place the pheasant on a hot dish, remove the skewers, pom' over the gra'vy, and serve at once. 374. PULLED PHEASANT, AND SAYOUEY MACAEONI. (Second dressing.) Divide, with two forks, the meat from the bones of any cold pheasants ; puU it into pieces an inch long; stew the bones and skin for gravy, with a rub of garlic and one shalot; sea.son the meat (half a pound) with a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoon- ful of pepper, a tablespoonful of baked flour, tlie twelfth part of a nutmeg, grated, a tablespoonful of mushroom-ketchup, a table- spoonful of IMarsala and two ounces of dissolved butter; add sufficient gravy to moisten, and simmer gently for twenty minutes ; soak a quarter of a pound of Genoa macaroni in cold water for two hours, then boil it till quite tender (two hours) in a pint and a quarter of good stock ; season with a saltspoonlul of