A FEW THINGS WOKTH KNOW'ING. 324 down a handful of chloride of lime, and let the water run. Never throw greenswater down drains ; let it get cold, then throw it on the earth in the garden. Burn all vegetable matter, or send it away ; if it be put into the dust-bin, it decays, and an unwholesome smell arises; put nothing into the dust-bin but ashes. Do not throw human hair down drains or W. C.; bum it. Do not throw bones into cellars or elsewhere, as they cause a bad smell. If kept for the purpose of selling, the precaution must be taken to boil them till quite bare, wash them in hot water, and dry them on the hearth; if not, bum them. Keep all firesides neat, and let each fire bum up the cinders it makes. Avoid putting things on the stairs or landings. Let ever^'thing have a place. Shut doors after you, bg the handle, so as not to mark the paint. Use a fireside cloth and a housemaid's box for upstairs firesides. Always have a clean cloth expressly kept for chamber use. AVash out all utensils before wiping them. Put fresh water into jugs and bottles daily. AA’ear a large apron for bedmaking. Bedsteads should be taken down in spring and autumn, the woodwork and joints scrubbed, and the whole well cleansed; the fui-niture brushed, and cleaned with bread, or washed. Carpets are kept in nice order by cleaning them once a year Avith bread. Never use dirty brooms, brushes, or dusters. AVear gloves in aU dirty Avork. After cleaning fire-ii'ons and coal-scuttles (wliich should be daily in the Avinter), Avipe them Avith a cloth, so that they may not soil the hands Avhen used. Never dust gilt fi-ames Avith anything but a soft brush. Careful daily dusting preserves the furniture, and makes a house alAA'ays look clean. Never put a tablecloth on the table with a spot on it. AVhen there are any marks, lay the cloth on a clean table, dip a piece of flannel into hot Avater, and rub them till they dis- appear ; then fold the cloth smoothly, and put it into the press ; frequent Avashing Avears out the cloths, and accidents Avill occur daily. Do not use soda, excejAt for lamp and gas globes, other gi'ound-glass, and rough kitchen Avork. Do not let Avorkmen go upstairs in their thick dirty shoes. A pair of carpet-slippers or a pair of India-rubber overshoes should be kept for the purjwse. Lay doAvn cloths Avhere they are at AA'ork, if on a carpet. A\ hen rooms are SAvept, cover beds, sofas, &c. Avith sheets; old sheets should be kept for dusting-sheets. Never use kitchen-cloths