106 VEAL. a pale brown colour, about ten minutes. Serve verj' hot, with the following sauce in the dish;—Peel and chop two Spanish onions and three large mushrooms ; nab four tomatos through a hair sieve; put these into a saucepan, with a wineglassful of vinegar, a Avineglassful of Marsala, a grain of powdered mace, a grain of powdered ginger, the sixth pairt of a nutmeg, grated, a cayenne-spoonful of cayenne, a mustardspoonful of made moos- tard, a saltspoonful of salt, and a teaspooniul of sugar; stir over the fire till the onions are quite tender; then serve round the dish and the feet in the centre. 285. calf’s HEAKT, BOASTED. Thoroughly clean and soak the heaii; in cold water for half an hour. Make a stuffing as follows;-—A quarter of a pound of beef-suet, chopped small, the hard yolk of one egg, poimded, half , an ounce of fine crumbs of bread, a saltspoonful of mixed sweet hei’bs, a dessertspoonfiil of chopped parsley, half a saltspoonftal of salt, the same of peppei’, the tenth pait of a nutmeg, grated, and one well-beaten egg; mix these ingredients thoroughly, and fill the heart with the stuffing; spread one ounce of butter on a sheet of foolscap paper, fasten it round the heart, and roast for an hour and a quarter. Take off the paper a quarter of an hour before serving; dredge over a little flour, and baste constantly. Knead two ounces of butter with a dessertspoonful of baked flour and a finely chopped shalot; put it into a saucepan, and stir till quite brown ; add half a teacupful of stock, gravy, or water, a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, a dessertspoonful of any wine, and the juice of half a lemon, strained; boil ten minutes, and serve, poured over the heart. 28G. SWEETBEEADS, WITH WHITE SAUCE. Trim off the pith and skin, and put the sweetbreads into boil- ing water for five minutes, and then into cold for an hour: lard them thicldy with fat bacon; rub a small bright stewpm with gai’Iic (four times across the bottom); put in a quarter of a pound of Iresh butter, a chopped shalot, a slice of carrot, a bay leaf, a laurel leaf, the thin rind of half a lemon, a clove, two allspice, a saltspoonful of loaf sugar, half a .saltspoonful of salt, the same of white pepper; put in the sweetbreads and half a pint of new