MIXED FROT PUDDING. LEMON DUMPLINGS. 201 marroAv, four sweet, apples (peeled and cored), two ounces of candied orange-peel, one ounce of citron, one ounce of angelica, all finely chopped, an ounce of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, a teaspoonful of vanilla sugar, in powder, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, two ounces of apricot jam, two ounces of sultana raisins, two ounces of rusks, pounded, a wineglassfhl of Maraschino, and three ounces of sifted loaf sugar; beat the mixture for a quarter of an hour, put it into a plain mould (nibbed over with fresh butter), cover it with writing j^aper spread with butter, tie a cloth over that, plunge it into fast-boil- ing water, and boil for two hours and a half, or bake in a mode- rate oven for two hours. Tmui out carefully, and serve with the following sauce in a tureen. 564. PARISIAX SAUCE. Beat the yolks of three fresh eggs; add two ounces of sifted loaf sugar and half a pint of Marsala; stir over a slow fire till it thickens; add half a gill of cream, stirred in by degrees. Serve immediately. 565. MIXED FRUIT PUDDIXG. Peel, core, and cut up six or eight good cooking apples; put tliein into a skillet, with the grated rind and strained juice of a lemon, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, a grain of powdered cloves, eight ounces of loaf sugar, and one ounce of fi-esh butter; stir over the fire till it becomes a rich marmalade ; let it get cold, then add two ounces of sultana raisins, tAvo ounces of currants, both Avell wa.shed and dried, three ounces of IMuscadel raisins, stoned, and two ounces of orange marmalade. Make a j^aste as follows :—Beat si.x ounces of fresh Imtter to cream, and stir it into six ounces of Avell-dried flour; add four ounces of sifted loaf sugar; moisten with five Avell-beaten eggs. Butter a tin mould, line it witli this paste, put in the fruit mixture, cover closely over with a lid of the paste, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. Turn out carcl’ully, and .serve, cither hot or cold. 566. LEMON DUMPLINGS OR PUDDING. Haifa pound of beef-suet, finely chopped, half a pound of flour, Ijalf a pound of moist sugar, the grated peel ol' one and strained