212 PUDDINGS, PASTRY, JELLIES, CREAM, ETC. rind of half a lemon boiled in an enamelled saucepan for three minutes; take it off the fire for live minutes; beat eight eggs, leaving out four of the whites ; add the milk to the eggs, stirring quickly as it is poured in. Put the eustard again into the saucepan, and stir over a gentle lire till it begins to thicken; then strain through a fine sieve into a basin; add half a giU of good cream,' and any of the following flavouring;—Brandy, Curasao, Maraschino, or rum, of either two tablespoonfuls; I'atalia, one tablespoonful; essence of vanilla or lemon, twenty drops; orange-flower water, a teaspoonful. GOO. APPLE MOULD. Peel, core, and cut up twelve good cooking apples; to eacli jx)und of apple add three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, a quarter of an oimce of isinglass, the grated rmd and strained juice of a lemon, and a wineglassful of rum. Boil in a skillet till in a rich jam, then rub through a line wdre sieve; rub the mould slightly with salad oil, or Avith dissolved fresh butter; press in the apple, smooth over the bottom Avith a knife, and let it stand in a eold place, or on ice, till quite firm. Turn out care- fully, and serve, Avith custard made as directed in the foregoing receipt (omitting the flavoui’ing), poured OA'er. 601. RICE AND ALMOND MOULD. Blaneh tAvo ounces of SAveet and six bitter almonds, and pound them to a soft paste ; Avash six ounces of rice ; put them into an enamelled saucepan, Avith six ounees of sugar and a quart of milk, and simmer gently till perfectly tender (about an hour and a quarter) ; dip a mould into cold Avater, press in the rice, put a plate over Avith a Aveight upon it, and let it stand in a cold place for four or five hours. Turn out earefuUy; put a border of any kind of jam or marmalade round the rice; poiu- over a gill of good cream, and serve. 602. LEMON RICE MOULD. Wash six ounces of rice and boil it in a qtiart of ncAV milk, Avith six ounces of sugar and the grated rind of tAvo lemons, till lender (an hour and a quarter); press it into a mould, and let it