42 Fisir. Serve very hot, on a neatly folded napkin, and with the following sauce in a tureen :—Knead three ounces of butter with a table- spoonfiil of baked flour; strain the third of a pint of the water the eel is boiled in, and stir the butter into it; boil ten miniitpg; scald a bunch of parsley, chop it, and stir a good-sized teaspoonful into the sauce. Note.—^An onion or a shalot in the water improves the flavour of the eel, if not intended for a delicate digestion. 122. STEAVED EELS. Skin and cut ofi" the fins of an eel Aveighing two pounds; put it on a gridiron over a bright quick fire for six minutes to draw out the fat, well scrape it, and cut it into pieces three inches long; put it into a pie-dish with the strained juice of two lemons, a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonfiil of pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, a moderate-sized onion, chopped fine, a quarter of a clove of garlic, chopped, and a teaspoonftil of tarragon vinegar ; well rub the eel with this seasoning, and let it remain for an hour. Dissolve two ounces of butter, dip each piece of eel in, and dredge it with baked flour. Fry to a nice brown colour over a quick fire (in two ounces of butter) for ten minutes. Put three- quarters of a pint of stock (No. 1) into a stewpan, Avith a tea- spoonful of anchovy-sauce, a dessertspoonful of soy, a grain of cayenne, and a tablespoonful of baked flour; stir tiU it bods. Put in the eel, bod up quickly, skim carefully, then simmer gently for twenty-five minutes. Add half a gdl of port wine, and serve. Note.—^Button onions, button mushrooms, or fried sippets may be added. 123. STEWED EELS, WHITE. Skin and trim off the fins of two eels, weighing about one pound each ; put them into a saucepan of boding Avater, AAUth a tablespoonful of vinegar and a dessertspoonful of salt, and let them remain for five minutes, to extract the fat; drain on a cloth. Knead three ounces of butter Avith a tablespoonful of flour, a saltspoonful of Avhite pepper, and a saltspoonful of salt; put it into a bright steAvpan, and shake it over a sIoav fire till wed melted, but not broAvned. Cut the eels into pieces three inches long, put them into the steAvpan, and sliake it till the butter