housekeeper.’ Observer, Jan. 3, 1864. Just published, post 8vo. price 7s. 6d. cloth, CRE-FYDD’S FAMILY FARE. THE T0TJ1J& HOTJSEWrFE’S DAILY ASSISTAHT ON ALL MATTERS RELATING TO CnoluriJ aiiltr : CONTAINING BILLS OF FAMILY FARE FOR EVERY DAV IN THE YEAR; WHICH INCIiHDE BEEAKFA8T AND DINNER FOB A SMALL FAMILY, AND DINNER FOR TWO SERTANTS ; ALSO TWELTE BILLS OF FARE FOR DINNER PARTIES, AND TWO FOE EVENING ENTERTAINMENTS, WITH THE COST ANNEXED, AND ALSO A DIETARY FOR THE SICK CHAMBER. London : SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, & CO. NOTICES of the FBESS. 1 ‘ Tlie author does not profess to teach the recondite science of highly-flavoured cookery so much as to play the humble office of •“ The Young Housewife’s Daily Assistant,” and under the alliterative title of Cre-Fydd’e Family Fare has put forth a work that, as far as our experience goes, has considerable claims to the patronage of the public, not only on the score of special excellence in many of the general recipes, but on the ground of absolute novelty of design and construction as developed throughout the work. It is, therefore, for this practical character that we would chiefly commend the labours of our authoress, for we arc disposed to view and criticise them from the point of view which would be selected by a bachelor “ on promotion.” To such as these the book now before us must be a great boon. And we would ask ourselves,—Would it not be a comfort to marry a girl who had made herself mistress of the art of giving herself and myself a breakfast and dinner every day ? That which strikes us as being a special recommendation in Cre Fydd’s work is that it is to a considerable extent devotcci to the task of simplifying the daily routine of housekeeping, as practised in every-day life. We opine that upon that especial characteristic will the success which we prognosticate for this work mainly depend. That the authoress has taken great pains is evident in every page. Her work must, indeed, have been a labour of love, and we can well credit her assertion that every receipt has been tested in her own kitchen, and served at her own table; and we cannot do belter in taking our leave of her labours than re-echo her own Horatian motto for the edifleation of all the widows, wives, and maids of England :—“ If you know better pre- cepts than these, candidly tell me; if not, follow them as I do.” ’ Times, March 26, 1864. 2 ‘ Among the books relating to cookery, we may safely state that this is new. There is nothing precisely resembling it. Here we have, in the first place, a bill of fare for every day in the year, and, being adapted to only two persons, it can easily be increased to the right proportions according to the number at table. No better plan than this could be adopted for enforcing that variety of fare which is so requisite but so little practised. Dinners on a large scale follow, as well as suppers for any number of persons, all very useful in their way. The receipts given in the second part are to be noted for the plain planner in which they are described, and the exactness with which every single ingredient is specified. There cannot be a better cookery book for a small family and a young