123 WHITE AND BLACK PUDDINGS. it ovei- the ham, and let it remain in this pickle for a month. It must be turned and well rubbed every day. Hang it in a dry -wai-m place tiU quite dry. A large leg of mutton may be cured in the same way, but it will not require more than three weeks, and should be eaten as soon as it is dry. 325. TO CURE A TONGUE. A teacupfiil of moist sugar, half a pound of salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, and half an ounce of bay salt; rub these well into the tongue, and let it remain in pickle for three weeks; and if a very large one, four weeks; rub it well, and turn it every day. . 326. SAVOURY WHITE PUDDINGS. The fry of a fresh-killed pig, one pound of the inside fat, one pound of lean pork, two onions, a small clove of garlic, four sprigs of parsley, two sprigs of chervil, four sage leaves; all minced fine; six ormces of crumbs of bread, boiled in milk (a pint) tin in a pulp, four yolks and two whites of fresh eggs ; .season with three teaspoonfuls of fine salt, one teaspoonfiil ol })owdered loaf sugar, two teaspoonfuls of white pepper, one tea- .spoonfril of flour of mustard, the fourth part of a nutmeg, grated, one grain of powdered mace, the grated rind of a lemon, jind two grains of coriander-seeds in poAvder; add three ounces ()f baked flour ; stir the mixture weU, and put it into pig’s-skins that have been thoroughly cleansed; secure both ends, and tie it into puddings of six inches in length, leaving room in each to swell; put them into warm water, boil up, then simmer gently for tAvo hours. Hang them in a cool place to keep till Avanted. Broil or roast before the fire for tAventy-five minutes, and serve on a napkin very hot. 327. BLACK PUDDINGS. A quart of fresh-killed pig’s blood, one pound of the inside fat of the pig, cut into pieces a quarter of an inch square, three- quarters of a pound of rice, boiled for half an hour in water, then drained; tAvo onions, and a small clove of garlic, chopped small, half a saltspoonful of mixed SAveet herbs, two sprigs of chervil, chopped; season Avith two saltspoonfuls of dry salt, three saltspoonfuls of black pepper, tAvo grains of bruised mustard-seed,