229 SAYOUKY SIACAltOM. CHEESE SOUFELli. of mustard, two grains of cayenne, and a saltspoonful of white pepper; lay it on a dish, and sift grated Parmesan cheese thickly over (three ounces) ; on that lay an ounce of butter in small pieces; bake in a quick oven, or before the fire, till of a pale brown colour (from twelve to fifteen minutes). Serve very hot. 660. SAVOUEY MACAKONI. (Naples receipt.) Blanch six ounces of Naples macaroni in two quarts of boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt in it; let it remain till cold, then drain on a sieve. Put it into an enamelled saucepan Avith two ounces of butter, and stir over the fire till the butter is absorbed; then add a quart of new milk and simmer A’^ery gently till quite tender (about an hour and a half); add a teaspoonful of Hour of mustard, a saltspoonful of Avhite pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, a grain of cayenne, three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and trvo fresh eggs, beaten with a gill of thick cream ; place it on a dish, and sift grated Parmesan cheese thickly over (three ounces) ; on that lay an ounce of butter in small pieces; bake in a quick oven, or before the fire, till of a pale brown colour (from twelve to fifteen minutes). Serve very hot. 661. CHEESE SOUFFLE, OR FONDU. Grate si.x ounces of rich cheese (Parmesan is the be.st) ; put it into an enamelled saucepan, with a teaspoonful of fiour of mustard, a salt.spoonful of white pepper, a gi-ain of cayenne, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, two ounces of butter, two table- 8f)Oonfuls of baked flour, and a gill of new milk; stir it over a slow fire till it becomes like smooth thick cream (but it must not boil) ; add the well-beaten yolks of six eggs; beat for ten minutes; then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; pour the mixture into a tin, or a cardboard mould, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Serve immediately. 662. BREAD-AND-CHEESE PUDDING. Six ounces of rich cheese, grated, four ounces of fine crumbs of bread, two ounce.s of dissolved butter, a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, a saltspoonful of white pepper, a grain of cayenne, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, a gill of new milk, and three