30 FISJI. 77. COD, WITH POTATO WALL. (Second dressing.) Divide the cold cod into flakes, take -ofF the skin, and remove all the bones. To half a pound, add/ a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of -white pepper, and half a grain of cayenne. Boil six mealy potatoes; mash them quite smooth. Add tiro ounces of dissolved butter, or two tablespoonfiils of Lucc.a oil, two saltspoonfuls of salt, and the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated. Pound till in a smooth soft paste. Put a layer of potato on the dish, lay in half of the fish, and any sauce that may be left; and if there be none, then an oimce of butter ; put in the rest of the fish, then the potatoes. Smooth the top over -with a knife, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Serve in the same dish, which must be placed on a folded napkin on another dish. 78. SCOLLOPED COD. (Second dressing.) Pull the cold fish into small pieces, freed fi-om skin and bone. Season with (to half a pound of fish) a saltspoonful of salt, the same of white pepper, and the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated. Put four ounces of crumb of bread one day old into a cloth, and rub it into very fine crumbs; season them mth half a salt- spoonful of salt and half a grain of cayenne; put a layer into a flat dish, lay in the fish and two ounces of good butter in pieces. Cover it well over with the crumbs, lay on tlie top tAvo ounces of butter in small pieces, and bake in a moderate oven for eighteen or twenty minutes. SerAm in the same dish. 79. cod’s EOE pried IX BATTER. Wash the roe ; put it into boiling water A\dth a tablcspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar; simmer for eight minutes. When cold, cut it into slices a quarter of an inch thick, hlake a batter as foUoAvs:—Mix three tablespoonfuls of baked flour AA-itli three Avell-beaten eggs, half a saltspoonful of salt; beat till quite smooth. Add, beating all the time, three tablespoonfiils of Lucca oil; then, by degrees, half a pint of Avater. Let it stand tAVO hours. Beat the batter again for ten minutes, dip in each piece of roc, and fry to a pale broAvn colour in salad oil or butter