MUTTON CUTLETS. MINCED MUTTON. 61 add one -well-beaten yolk, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, half a saltspoonfiil of salt, a teaspoonftil of flour of mustard, and, by degrees, four tablespoonfuls of salad (Lucca) oil; then drop by drop a teaspoonfiil of tarragon vinegar and two dessertspoonfuls of vinegar; stir the same way the whole time ; add a teaspoonful of finely chopped chives; put the sauce on a cold dish and the cutlets (hot) round it. 179. MINCED MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH TOMATO SAUCE. (Second dressing.) Cut one pmmd of cold mutton into thin slices, without fat or skin ; mince it as fine as possible ; season with a teaspoonfi.il of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, a gi-ain of cayenne, half a shalot, chopped; add four tablespoonfuls of mutton gi'avy, ivith a drachm of isinglass dissolved in it, and an ounce of dissolved butter ; stir till firm. Form the mince into seven or eight equal sized cutlets ; dip them into beaten egg, then into baked flour, and let them stand in a cool place for an hour. Dip them again into egg and flom-, and fry in plenty of boiling fat over a quick fire for eight minutes; put a teacupful of tomato-sauce into a small saucepan with a dessertspoonful of vinegar ; knead a tea-' spoonful of baked flour with half an ounce of fresh butter, and stir into the sauce for five minutes. Serve the cutlets round the dish, and the sauce in the centre. 180. MUTTON CUTLETS IN HASTE. (Second dressing.) Cut up either loin or neck of cold mutton into cutlets the third of an inch thick; trim off some of the fat; season each with half a saltspoonful of salt and a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper; dip them into beaten egg, then into fine dry crumbs of bread, and fiy over a quick fire in boiling fat for six minutes. They should be a light-brown colour. Serve very hot. Note.—Slices off a leg of mutton may be used, and any sauce or gravy may be added. 181. MINCED MUTTON, WITH MACAKONI WALL. (Second dressing.) Chop quite fine three-quarters of a pound of cold roast mutton ; season with a saltspoonful of salt, a salt.spoonful of pepper, the