SOUPS, BEOTIIS, ETC. 18 ram, and four sprigs of parsley, all tied together ; two quarts of water, a teaspoonful of loaf sugar, two saltspoonfuls of salt. Boil up quickly, skim carefully, then simmer for three hours and a half. Siam off all the fat. Chop some parsley quite fine, put a dessertspoonful into a tureen. Strain the broth and serve. Note.—Barley, tapioca, or rice may he added, according to taste— a teacupful of either. The barley and tapioca will require two hours, and rice one hour boiling, in three-quarters of a pint of tlie broth before adding the rest. 45. GRAVY. Peel, wash, and slice a large onion, a large mu-shroom, half a carrot, and a small head of celery ; drain on a sieve, cut up into pieces the size of a walnut one pound of lean beef and half a pound of lean veal, both fresh killed. Make a bright stewpan hot, and rub it twice across the bottom with a piece of fresh-cut gai'lic. Put in the vegetables and meat, with an ormce of butter and two ounces of mild ham. Place the ste^vpan over a slow fire, shake it fi-equently, and let it simmer till the whole is nicely broAvned; then add four peppercorns, two allspice, two cloves, half an inch of mace, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, a mustard- spoonful of fresh-made mustard, three sprigs of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, and three pints of Avarm water. Boil up slowly, skim, then simmer gently for four hours, skimming frequently. Knead an ounce of butter with tAvo dessertspoonfuls of well- baked flour, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of peppei'. Stir this into the gravy, add a teaspoonful of soy. Boil fast for a quarter of an hour. Siam off every particle of fat, then strain through a fine sieve. The quantities given Avill make rather more than a pint of rich strong gravy. Note.—If mushrooms are not to be had, substitute one tablespoonful of ketchup, to be put in with the soj'. 46. ASPIC, OR SAVOURY JELLY. Put the folloAving articles into an iron pot:—An ox foot, un- boiled, tAvo large pig’s feet, fresli, a small knuckle of A'eal, and a small knuclde of good ham, all avoU cleansed and chopped into pieces; two onions, a clove of garlic, two carrots, tAvo apples, and tAVO truffles, all scraped, Avashed, and cut up; four cloves, foiu allspice, half a teaspoonful of mustard-seed, a blade of mace, two