PUDDINGS, PASTRY, JELLIES, CREAM, ETC. 230 beaten eggs ; mix these ingredients together, and beat with a wooden spoon for ten minutes; put the mixture into a pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Serve very hot. 663. CHEESE BISCUITS. A quarter of a pound of fresh butter beaten to cream, a quarter of a pound of baked flour, five ounces of rich cheese, grated, (Parmesan is the best), a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, a salt- spoonful of cayenne, the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, and two tablespoonfuls of cold water; mix these ingredients together, and knead till in a firm paste; roU it out the eighth of an inch thick, and cut it into biscuits three inches long, and one inch broad; bake in a quick oven for twelve minutes. Sen^e very hot. 664. CHEESIKIIfS. Three ounces of dried fine crumbs of bread, four ounces of grated cheese, two ounces of butter, dissolved, a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, a saltspoonful of cayenne, a saltspoonful of white pepper, two beaten eggs; mix these ingredients together; let it stand an hour; knead and roU out as thin as possible; cut the paste into triangles, and bake in a quick oven for sixteen or eighteen minutes. Serve hot. I 665. STEWED CHEESE. Three-quarters of a pound of rich cheese cut into thin slices (the rind taken off"); season it wi th a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, and a cayenne saltspoonfiil of cayenne; put it into a pie-dish; pour over a wineglassful of sherry, put an ounce of butter in small pieces on the top, and bake in a quick oven till the cheese is dissolved (about twelve minutes); then add the yolks of tAvo small eggs, well beaten; Avhen AveU mixed, pour it into a tin dish, and bake for ten minutes, till the top is of a pale brown colour. Serve very hot, Avith a rack of fresh-made dry toast, very hot also. 666. WELSH BABBIT. Cut a round of bread, half an inch thick, off a two pound loaf; trim off the crust and outside edges; spread it thickly with