214 PUDDINGS, PASTEY, JELLIES, CEEAM, ETC. 607. OMELET SOUFFLfi. Break ten new laid eggs, put the yolks into one basin and the whites into another ; add to the yolks five ounces of very finely pounded loaf sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and twenty drops of the essence of vanilla; beat fast for ten minutes; beat the Avhites to a stiff froth; add them to the rest, and continue to beat for ten minutes. Butter a plain tin mould, put in the mix- ture, and bake immediately in a very quick oven for about twelve minutes; sift loaf sugar over the top ; roll a hot napkin round the tin, and send to table at once. Note.—A hot salamander or shovel should be held over the souffle in taking it from the oven to the dining-room, to prevent it sinking. This applies to all souffles. cos. GKOUND EICE SOUFFLE. Moisten three ounces of gi'ound rice with a gill of new milk, and stir it into half a pint of boiling milk; add three ounces of fresh butter and four ounces of silled loaf sugar; boil and stir for twelve minutes; then put it into a basin to get cold; beat the yolks of six new laid eggs with a dessertspoonful of orange- flower water. When well frothed, stir them into the rice, whisk the whites to a stiff froth, and add to the rest; beat for ten minutes. Butter a plain tin mould, three parts fill it with the mixtm'e, and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an horn:. Sift loaf sugar thickly over the top ; roll a hot napkin round the tin, and serve immediately. 609. AEROWEOOT SOUFFLE. Follow the preceding receipt, using aiTOwi'oot instead of rice, and the grated rind of a lemon instead of orange-flower water. Serve as therein directed. 610. PANCAKES. Beat three fresh eggs, and stir into three tablespoonfuls of dried flour till in a smooth pa.ste; add three-quarters of a pint of new milk ; beat wdth a wooden spoon for a quarter of an hour; stand the batter in a cool ])lace for two hours or longer; beat again for ton minutes, and fry in butter (an ounce for each) or in olive oil (Lucca) till of a pale brown colour on both sides; about