80 BEEF. dip each piece into fine salad oil, and then into lemon juice, and let them remain for two hours; then dredge both sides with baked flour-, and season with a small teaspoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of pepper, a saltspoonfirl of flour of mustard, a salt- spoonful of loaf sugar, half a grain of cayenne, and two shalots, finely chopped. Make a stewpan hot, rub the bottom twice across with garlic, put in two ounces of butter, and when it is dissolved put in the beef; add half a pint of gravj'-, and half a teacupful of pickled mushrooms, but none of the vinegar; shake tire pan, and simmer very gently for half an hour; skim frequently ; add two tablespoonfirls of Marsala, and serve immediately, with savour}' rice round it. 227. SAVOUKY EICE. Wash half a pound of rice, and boil it in a quart of water for ten- minutes ; then drain; put it into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of loaf sugar, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, the rind of half a lemon, grated, and the strained juice, half a pint of good gravy, and a teaspoonful of chutney sauce ; stir, and simmer till the gravy is entirely absorbed, about a quarter of an hour. Serve immediately. 228. BEEF-PIE, POTATO CKUST. (Second Dressing.) Boil five potatoes, mash them quite smooth, add a saltspoonfiil of salt, three ounces of dissolved butter, and the beaten yolk of one egg ; beat with a wooden spoon till perfectly light. Cut about three-quarters of a pound of cold roast beef into thin slices, take olF the fat, skin, and gristle; season Avdth a small teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper ; spread a layer of potato in a shallow pie-dish, lay in the beef, pour over a teacupful of beef gravy and a tablespoonful of Harvey-sauce ; cover over with potato; smooth oA'^er the top Avith a knife; bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Serve immediately. Note.—This pie may be made of any cold meat—poultry or fish—and if preferred, the meat can bo minced. It will bo fotmd very good if carefully made.