121 YORK HAM. handful of parsley, four cloves, ten peppercorns, a blade of mace, a clove of garlic, two tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, and sufficient cold water to well cover it; boil up gently ; skim; then simmer for two hours. iSIake a paste as follows:—Rub two pounds of dripping into three pounds of flour and three pints of bran ; add enough hot water to make it into a firm paste; roll it out about half an inch thick; put in the ham; press the paste round it that it may perfectly adhere and keep in the juices ; place it on a tin dish, and bake in a gentle oven for six hours and a half. If to be served cold, let it remain in the paste till quite cold ; then crack the paste, pull off the skin, wipe the fat Avith a clean soft cloth; brush it thickly over Avith glaze; put a frill round the knuckle ; garnish Avith savoury jelly or parsley, and serve. If to be used hot, garnish Avith spinach, mashed turnips, or carrots. 320. YORK HAM. (Cooked in the Spanish Avay.) Soak the ham in plenty of cold Avater for tAventy-four hours; scrape and Avash it AveU; put it into a large iron pot, skin uppermost, and more than cover it Avith cold Avater; boil up sloAvly, then simmer for an hour. Take out the ham, Avash it in cold Avater; put it back into the pot, and eover it Avith stock (No. 1) instead of Avater ; add two cloves of garlic, one large onion, tAvo carrots, tAvo turnips, a head of celery, a teaspoonful of mus- tard-seed, three tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, six cloves, an inch of bruised ginger, a laurel and a bay leaf, and a handful of parsley; simmer very gently till done, alloAviug from the time of boiling up in the stock tAventy-six minutes to the pound; tAvo hours before it is done pour in a bottle of Marsala or sherry, and keep the lid closely down till done ; put the ham Avith the stock into an earthen pan, and let it remain till quite cold. Take off the skin, Avipe the fat Avith a soft cloth ; bi-ush it over Avith good glaze; tie a neatly-cut paper frill round the knuckle; garnish Avith savoury jelly, and serve. If required hot, take off the skin ; cover the fat Avith a sheet of blotting-paper; lay the loose skin over that, and bake in a gentle oven ibr an hour ; glaze; and garnish Avith spinach.