74 LAMB. minutes, then strain; put the sauce again into the saucepan; add the well beaten yolks of two eggs; simmer for t\vo minutes, and serve in the centre of the cutlets. 214. BROILED BLADE-BONE OF LAilB. (Second dressing.) Take the remains of a shoulder of lamb, and score it, by cut- ting the meat through to the bone at half-inch distances; rub into the incisions a teaspoonful of white pepper, a teaspoonful of salt, and ar saltspoonful of flour of mustard ; broil, at a distance, over a clear fire for a quarter of an hour; place the lamb on a hot dish, rub it well over with butter and the juice of a lemon. Serve very hot. Note.—The time for brofling, and the quantity of seasoning, must depend on the quantity of meat on the bone. The receipt is for one pound and a half, or more. 215. PELAU. (An Indian receipt.) Chop three onions, a quarter of a clove of garlic, and a quarter of a pound of Sultana raisins ; knead two tablespoonfuls of cuiry- powder with two ounces of butter, and fry with the raisins and onions for ten minutes. Trim the fat off" five lamb cutlets, put them with the onions, add a teaspoonful of salt, and simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Wash three-quarters of a pound of rice, put it into a pint of any stock, and boil slowly for a quarter of an hour ; drain off" the gravy. Add to the rice three ormces of butter and a saltspoonful of salt; stir till it becomes a bright yellow colour; then put in sufficient gravy to moLsten it, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, the grated rind of half a lemon, a quarter of a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs ; stir and simmer till the rice is quite tender (about a quarter o£ an hour), and every grain separate. Add a gill of thick cream ; lay half of the rice on a hot dish, add the strained juice of half a lime or a lemon to the cutlets; lay them with their sauce on the rice, cover them over with the remainder of the rice, and serve immediately. 216. LAMB CUTLETS, WITH CUCUJIBERS. Peel three cucumbers, about six inches long; cut them into two, split each piece into three, and remove the seeds; put the