PUDDINGS, PASTEY, JELLIES, CEEAM, ETC. 198 552. BAKED TAPIOCA PUDDIXG. Boil three tablespoonfuls of tapioca and the thin rind of a lemon, in a pint and a half of new milk for an hour and three- quarters ; stir in a quarter of a pound of sugar ; let it get cold ; take out the peel; add three well-beaten eggs; beat for ten minutes; butter a pie-dish, put in the pudding, and bake in a quick oven for half an 1mm'. The edge may be lined Avith paste if preferred. 553. TAPIOCA, POETUGUESE. Boil three tablespoonfuls of the best tapioca in a pint and a half of neAv milk till quite, tender (about tAvo hours); stir frequently; add six ounces of loaf sugar and an ounce of fresh butter; when Avell mixed, stand the saucepan off the lire for ten minutes, then stir in, by degrees, six Avell-beaten fresh eggs; stir over the fire tiU at boiling heat, then let it get cool; add tAventy drops of the essence of Amnilla, or any other flavouring. Turn it into a glass dish, and let it stand in a cold place for two hours. Just before serving, sift evenly over the top a dessertspoonful of poAvdered cinnamon. 554. MACAKOXI, POETUGUESE. Break three ounces of the best macaroni into inch lengths, and soak it in a quart of cold Avater for one hour ; drain on a sieve; put it into an enamelled saucepan, with a pint and a half of new milk and an inch of A'anilla, and simmer gently for tAvo hours. Take out the vaniUa, add a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar in poAvder, and half a gill more milk; continue to simmer tAA'ent3' minutes ; stand it ofl" the fire for ten minutes, then stir in, by de- gi-ees, five AA'ell-beaten eggs ; stir over the fire till at boiling heat, then add a Avineglassful of brandy .and half a gill of thick cream. When nearly cold, put it into a glass disli, and let it stand in a cold place for tAVO hours. Just before serving, pound to a fine du.st an ounce of macaroons, and sift over the surface. 555. YEEMICELLI, POETUGUESE. FoUoaa" the preceding receipt, alloAving three-quarters of an hour less time and half a pint less milk.