COLLAEED VEAL. VEAL EORCEMEAT ROLL. 101 skimming otlcn. Take out the bag; beat the yolks of three eggs ■with a gill of cream ; put in the oysters ; simmer five minutes ; then stir in the eggs till the sauce thickens, and serve. 276. COLLARED VEAL OR GALANTINE. Have a piece of breast of veal, twelve inches long and seven broad; put it into sufficient cold "ivater to cover it-well; add a dessertspoonful of sifted sugar, a dessertspoonful of salt, an onion, a lettuce, a carrot, and a turnip, all cut up; boil up quickly; skim; then simmer gently for two hours. Pound to paste the hard yolks of twelve eggs; mix with them a teaspoon- ful of anchovy-sauce, a saltspoonful of ■\t'hite pepper, the grated rind of a lemon, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, two tea- spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, in fine powder, and three ounces of dissolved butter. Cut into strips, half an inch broad and three inches long, half a pound of niild lean ham, cut as thin as possible; clean and cut into thin slices four traffics. Take oiit the veal, remove the bones and gristle, and lay it flat, the skin downwards; rub the surface with a piece of fresh-cut garlic three times across; sprinkle over half a salt.spoonful of salt, and rub in the strained juice of a lemon; spread the egg paste over equally; lay in the truffles and ham in lines; roll up the veal as tightly as possible ; sew it up in a strong cloth; put it again into the pot, with the bones and jneces, and simmer very gently for three hours longer. Take out the veal, place it between two boards, with a heavy weight on the upper one; Avhen cold, remove the cloth. May be glazed, or garni.shed with savoury jelly when served. Note.—Reserve the liquor for soup, in an earthen uncovered pan. 277. VEAL FORCEMEAT ROLL. Scrape, and then pound, one pound of veal cutlet, three ounces of fat bacon, two ounces of lean ham, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, a quarter of a shalot, an ounce of fine crumbs of bread, a des.sertspoonful of baked flour; add the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, the grated rind of half a lemon, half a gill of thick cream, and three well- beaten eggs, leaving out one white; form it in the shape of a