PORK. 118 310. POEK CUTLETS, WITH TOilATO S.VUCE. Cut six or seveu cutlets from the fore loins of small pork, each the width of the bone ; trim olF all the fat, and bare the end of the bone about an inch. Season three ounces of fine crumbs of bread with a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated. Beat a fresh egg on a plate for five minutes; dip each cutlet into the egg, and then into the crumbs; let them stand ten minutes. Cut the fat into small pieces; put it into a fiying-pan and, when .sufBciently dis.solved. Iry the cutlets in it to a pale brown colour (about t^venty minutes) over a moderate fire; di-ain on a sieve before the fire for two minutes. Put a gill (or more) of tomato-sauce into a saucepan ; knead a teaspoonful of baked flour with half an ounce of butter, and stir in. Place the cutlets neatly round a hot dish; pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. 311. POEK CUTLETS, WITH SPANISH SAUCE. Have six chops off the fore loin cut the third of an inch thick ; trim off all the fat. Season three oimces of fine bread crumbs Avith half a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, and a saltspoonful of mixed herbs ; dip the cutlets into beaten egg, and then into the crumbs; let them stand in an airy place for a quarter of an hour; dip them again into the egg and crumbs; place them on a tin dish, Avith three ounces of butter, and bake in a modei-ate oven for an hour. Serve with the folloAving sauce :—Peel and cut up one large Spanish onion, a small cloA^e of garlic, four acid apples; put them into a saucepan, Avith the strained juice of two lemons, a grain of cayenne, two gi-ains of poAvdered ginger, a tablespoonful of moist sugar, and steAV for an hour, stu-ring frequently; add a Avineglassful of Madeira or sherry, and serve—the cutlets round the dish, and the sauce in the centre. ■ 312. POEK CUTLETS, AVITH MUSHEOOM SAUCE. Cut six or eight chops, the Avidth of the bone, from the fore loin of small pork ; trim off the fat, and bare tlie end of the bone about an inch. Mix together the strained juice of a lemon, a tcaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of Avhite pepper, a small onion,