16 SOUPS, LROTIIS, ETC. gently for eight minutes; stir in a gill of tliick cream, and serve immediately. 38. PALESTINE SOUP. (Two quarts.) Peel and wash three pounds of Jerusalem artichokes, one large onion, and a small head of celery. Put them into a stewpan, with two ounces of mild lean ham, a small blade of mace, a dessertspoonful of loaf sugar, and two quarts of stock (No. 2). Boil quickly (uncovered) for an hour. Knead together two ounces of butter and three tablespoonfuls of baked flour, and stir it into the soup for twenty minutes. Eub the soup through a fine sieve Avith a Avooden spoon. Put it again into the stewpan ; boil itp ; skim if necessary; then stir in half a pint of thick cream, and serA'e immediately. 39. LEEK SOUP. Trim and wash eight good sized leeks; cut the W'hite part into slices, and fry to a pale broAvn colour in a quarter of a pound of butter. Put them into a stewpan Avith three pints of water, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, a saltspoonful of salt, and boil for an hour and a half, when the leeks should be in a pulp ; rub through a fine sieve. Cut three tliin slices of bread, Avithout cnist; lay them in a tureen, sprinkle over tAVO tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Put the soup again into the steAvpan; boil up; stir in half a pint of tliick cream. Pour it over the bread, and serve immediately. 40. VEGETABLE SOUP. "Wash, trim, and cut into shreds an inch long a small cabbage, tAVO large carrots, tAA'o tm-nips, a liead of celery, two leeks, three onions, a large endiA'e or a lettuce. Put them into an iron pot AA'ith half a pound of good butter, a tablespoonfid of moist sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonfid of curry powder, and let them fry till of a good broAvn colour ; stir constantly to prevent burn- ing. Add tAA'O quarts of Avater, and boil moderately fast for tivo hours, skimming fi-equently. Put into the tureen a Avineglassfiil of hlarsala and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Pour in the soup, and serve at once.