103 calf’s head, boiled. lemon; butter the edge of a ten inch pie-dish; put in the veal and ham in layers ; add half a gill of veal broth or cold water, and, if liked, either the yoUcs of four hard-boiled eggs or four forcemeat balls. ]\Iake a paste as follows :—Moisten half a pound of flour with half a gill of water and the juice of half of a large lemon; press the paste out on the slab ; put in the centre seven ounces of ffood butter ; roll out four times; then let it stand for two hours in a cool place ; take a sixth part of the paste, roll it out thin,-and line the edge of the dish; moisten with cold water ; roll the re- mainder out to the size of the dish; put it over; press the edge to make it adhere; trim round with a sharp knife, notch at inch distances; make a hole in the centre for the steam to escape; ornament to fancy, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Serve with cut lemon. Note.—A truffle much improves, or four button mushrooms may be added. « 280. CALF’S HEAD, BOILED, WITH WHITE SAUCE, A calf s head pelted makes a prettier and a nicer dish than when the skin is taken off. Put a teacupful of vinegar and a tablespoonful of salt into a pan of cold water, and soak the head in it for twenty minutes ; then well wash it in fresh water ; trim otF the rough black pieces about the mouth ; take out the tongue and brains, and put them into cold water. Put the head into an iron pot, the split side doAvnwards, and entirely cover it with cold wiiter. Boil up quickly, skim, then simmer very gently till done. Be careful to keep the head rvell covered with Avater. Half of a very small head will require an hour and three- quarters fi-om the time of boiling up ; a moderate size, two hours; and a large one, two hours and twenty minutes; if without the •skin, three-quarters of an hour less. Tie the brains in a piece ot muslin, Avith a sage leaf, a sprig of parsley, and a sprig of chervil. Put in the tongue and brains three-quarters ol’an hour before the head is done. Pub the brains through a sieve ; put them into a saucepan Avith half an ounce of butter, half a saltspoonful of salt, and two grates of a nutmeg. Skin and trim the tongue; put it on a small di.sh, and pour the brains over it. Lay the head upon a hot dish, the split side downAvards, and serve immediately, with a cut lemon upon a plate and the following sauce in a tureen : Knead three ounces of butter Avith tAA'o tablespoonfuls of baked