SODA AND TEA-CAKES. BTJNS. SCOTCH BUNS. 237 • 686. SODA CAKE. One poiuid of dried flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound of cuiTants, well cleansed, three ounces of candied peel, chopped, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, two beaten eggs, the third of a pint of new milk (tepid), and a small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Rub the butter into the flour ; add half a saltspoonful of salt; mix in the other ingredients, putting in the milk (with the soda in it) last. Beat for five minutes; turn the dough into a cake tin rubbed with butter, and bake in a moderate oven about an hour and three quarters. Turn out the cake to get cold. 687. TEA CAKES. Dry and sift one pound of the best flour; reserve a teacupful, and put the rest into a large basin with a saltspoonful of sjilt. ^[ix a teaspoonful of good yeast (or a quarter of an ounce of German yeast) into rather more than a gill of tepid water, and stir it into the flour till in a soft paste ; cover the basin with a clean cloth, and let it stand on the hearth, at a distance from the fire, about an hour, to rise; then add the following ingredients : a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, six ounces of butter, beaten to cream, and three fresh eggs, well beaten. Divide the dough into eight cakes. Use the reserved dry flour for making up! Place them on a tin, and bake in a quick oven till nicely browned ; about twenty minutes. Cut through the centre, spread with fre.sh butter, and serve veiy hot. 688. BUKS. Follow the preceding receipt—adding a grain of powdered cloves, three grains of powdered cinnamon, and two ounces more sugar. Currants and candied peel may also be added. 689. SCOTCH SriCED BUN. Mix well together the following ingre'dients:—One pound of raisins, stoned and chopped, one pound of currants, -well waslied and dried, six ounces of mixed candied peel, chopped, three ounces of sweet .almonds, blanched and chopped, six ounces of moist sugar, a saltspoonful of powdered ginger, the .same of powdered cinnamon, half a saltspoonful of powdered cloves, a saltspoonful of