256 PLAIX COOKING. 757. ILVSIIED OX HEART. Cut the heart into slices a quarter of an incli thick, spjinkle both sides slightly with pepper, salt, and dried flour; chop quite fine half a small onion ; put it into a stewpan, with a teaxpocinfuJ of coarse brown sugar, and a dessertspoonful of vinegar; when the sugar is dissolved, pour in a quarter of a pint of either gravy or water ; put in the heart; shake the pan ; put it near a slow lire, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Serve very hot. 758. SAUSAGE MEAT TIE. Mince quite fine one pound of sheep’s liver, one pound of lean beef, half a pound of fat pork, and three onions; season with two teaspoonfuls of salt, two saltspoonfuls of pepper, a grain of cayenne, a teaspoonful of flour of mustard; and a teaspoonftd of sugar. Rub two otinces of bread through a wire sieve ; mix all together; add two tablespoonfuls of cold water ; press the mince into a pie-dish, put a thin slice of fat pork on the top, and bake in a slow oven for an hour and tluee-quarters. May be ■served either hot or cold. 759. BEEP SAUSAGE PUDDING. Make a paste with one potmd of flour and half a pound of dripping. Line a basin, put in a pound and a half of beef sausages; roll out a circular piece, wet the edges, and make it adhere to the lining paste; boil rapidly for two hours and a half. Turn out carefully, and serve very hot. 7C0. BOILED LEG OP MUTTON, WITH CAPER SAUCE. Put the mutton into an iron pot, and cover it well with cold water; boil up quickly; skim, then simmer gently till done, allowing a quarter of an hour to the pound. Ivnead an ounce ot butter with a tablespoonful of dried flour, and stir into halt a pint of the liquor the mutton is boiled in; add .a tablespoonful of chopped capers or gherkins, a teaspoonful of vinegar, boil ton minutes and pour over the mutton. Carrots and turnips may be boiled Avith the mutton ; the carrots require two hours, the tur- jups one. Ee.servc the liquor in an c.arthcn uncovered pan for the following soup.