CUEEIES. 133 over the gravy and vegetables; add the strained juice of a lemon, and send both dishes to table immediately. Note.—-If yon have no Cre-iydd sauce, use instead a tablespoonful of port wine, a teaspoonful of soy, a teaspoonful of brandy, and a saltspoonful of ehutney. 344. TLAIN BOILED KICE FOR CURRIES. Wash ten ounces of rice ; put it into a quart of cold water with a teaspoonful of salt, and boil for half an hour, taking care it does not settle to the bottom. Drain on a sieve, and separate each grain by stiiTing Avith a Avooden fork, Avhile drying before the fire or in the oA^en. 345. CALCUTTA RECEIPT FOR CURRY. A teaspoonful of turmeric, a tablespoonful of coriander-seed, a tablespoonful of poppy-seed, half a teaspoonful of ginger, a quarter of a teaspoonful of red chili, half a teaspoonful of cumin- seed, all Avell pounded; mix the poAvder Avith three ounces of butter, and fry it Avith tAvo sliced onions for ten minutes. Cut up a young foA\d ; put it into the pan, and simmer for a quarter of an hour ; add the milk of one cocoa-nut and a saltspoonful of salt, stir Avell, and simmer a quarter of an hour longer ; stir in the juice of half a lime or a lemon, and serve, Avith plain boiled rice in a separate dish. Sca preceding receipt. 346. MADRAS RECEIPT FOR CURRY. Knead tAvo ounces of butter Avith tAvo dessertspoonfuls of curry poAvder, and fry it Avith a sliced onion till slightly broAvned ; cut up into pieces an inch square, foAvl, rabbit, or any kind of meat (about one pound); put it into the pan, Avith a saltspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of ttfmarind-paste, and a gill of gravy. Simmer gently and stir frequently Ibr half an hour. Serve Avith plain boiled rice. 347. MADRAS RECEIPT FOR CURRY, NO. 2. Tavo drachms of turmeric, four chillies, two grains of mustard- seed, tAvo drachms of coriander-seed, tAvo grains of cumin-seed, two drachms of poppy-seed, all avcU pounded and mi.xed ; knead the powder Avith three ounces of butler. Slice two large onions and fry in the butter till tondc.*r, but not broAvned. Cut up a young