129 BOILED AND FBICASSEED FOWL. Stir into it the third of a pint of the milk the fowls are boiling in ; boil ten minutes; add a gill of thick cream ; place the foAvls on a hot dish, draAv out the skewers. Pour half of the sauce over the breasts, and serve the rest in a tureen. Note. About three quarts of milk will be required for two good-sized fowls. If reserved in an earthen pan, it will make excellent soup, by adding onions, garlic, celery, carrots, salt, pepper, a bay leaf, the bones of the fowl, and a thick slice of crumb of bread; boil for two hours, then rub through a sieve. 336. BOILED FOWL, WITH PAKSLEY SAUCE. For time, see preceding receipt. Dip the fowl in hot water for one minute, and rub it tvell over Avith a cut lemon. This process will make it Avhite. Cover the breast Avith a thin slice of fat bacon ; tie the foAvl in a cle'an Avhite cloth ; put it into a sauce- pan (breast uppermost) Avith just sufficient cold Avater to coA'er it; boil up quickly, then simmer gently till done. Wash a good brmch of parsley in salted Avater; dip it twice into boiling Avater; chop the leaA^es quite fine ; knead a quarter of a pound of butter Avith a tablespoonful of baked flour, and stir into the third of a pint of the water the foAvl is boiled in; simmer five minutes; stir in a de.ssertspoonful of the chopped parsley; place the fowl on a hot dish (Avithout the bacon), draAV out the skcAvers ; pom- half of the sauce over the brea.st, and serve the remainder in a tureen, and send to table at once. 337. miCASSEED FOWL, WHITE. Cut a young foAA’l up into joints, and put it into cold Avater for an hour to blanch ; Avipe it dry, and dredge each piece Avith baked flour; put it into a stewpan Avith sufficient milk to just cover it (about three-quarters of a pint), and the folloAving ingredients tied in a piece of thin muslin :—A shalot, four sprigs of parsley, a sprig of thyme, tAvo leaves of tarragon, an inch of thin lemon peel, half of a laurel leaf, a quarter of an inch of mace, one clove, and a piece of nutmeg (about an eighth part of one) ; put it in the midst of the foAvl; add a teaspoonful of salt and a tea- spoonful of loaf-sugar ; boil up quickly ; then .simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour; take out the bag ; place the fowl on a hot dish ; pour over it the strained juice of a lemon. Beat K