PODDING.?, PA.STKV, JELLIE.S, CUEA3I, ETC. 21G 014. EICE CROQUETS. Boil the rice as directed in the foregoing receipt, and draui dry ; add the eggs to the rice. Make it up into ha\h the size of a large Avalnut; dip each into beaten egg, then into sifted loaf .sugar, and fry in butter till of a pale brown colour. Serve on neatly folded writing paper. XoTE.—Croquets must Le covered well with the butter they are frit-d in (about six ounces), that they may be equally browned. A stewpan is best for the purpose. 615. BREAD PAXCAKES. Put into an enamelled saucepan three ounces of fine crumbs of bread, three ounces of loaf sugar, an inch of cinnamon, the thin rind of half a lemon, and three-quarters of a pint of new milk; boil, and stir till in a stiff smooth paste; then turn it into a basin. MHien quite cold, add four well-beaten eggs and half a gill of thick cream ; divide the mixture into four parts, and fry each in an ounce of butter till of a golden colour on both sides. Serve on a neatly folded naj^kin, with jam or mannalade spread on each. Note —Before adding the eggs, take out the cinnamon and peek 616. JAM SANDWICHES. Beat the yolks of three fresh eggs with a gill of thick cream ; stir in an ounce of sifted sugar, and three tablespoonfuls of Oswego flour ; add half a pint of new milk : beat for ten minutes ; whisk the tvhites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir into the mixture ; divide it into four parts. Butter four roimd tin moulds, or four pie-plates; put in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven about a quarter of an hour. Serve, with layers of jiUn between, and loaf sugar sifted over the top. Hot or cold. 617. APPLE SOUFFLE. Peel, core, and slice four apples; put them into a saucepan, with four ounces of loaf sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of a lemon, and boil till in a rich marmalade; add a wineglassful of rum and two ounces of dried crumbs of bread ; stir over the fire for ten minutes; then turn it into a b;isin. M hen quite cold, ' add the yolks of four eggs beaten with half a gill of cream ; beat