12 sours, BROTHS, ETC. simmev for three-quarters of* an hour, skimming often. Now put in the four muslin bags containing the vegetables, and simmer three-quarters of an hour longer. Boil the eggs for ten minutes ; cut a French roll into six slices, butter both sides, and fry or bake to a nice brown colour. Put them into a tureen, Avith the yolks of the boiled eggs. Place on their separate dishes, ready for serving, the foAvl, sweetbread, cutlets, and steak; take out the bags, pour the soup over the bread, and serve. Make the cream boiling hot, add the mushrooms and half a saltspoonful of salt, and pour it over the fowl. Add a teaspoonful of loaf sugar to the peas, place them round the sweetbread. Pass a red- hot salamander over the larding to slightly broAvn it. Press the tomatoes through the muslin; add the brandy, half a saltspoonful of salt, half a grain of cayenne, a tablespoontul of vinegar; boil up and pour over the cutlets. Dissolve an ounce of butter, stir into it a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and the port Avine; add the onions; pour this over the steak, and serve the four dishes quite hot. / 29. OX-TAIL SOUP. (Two quarts.) HaA'e a fine ox-tail cut into pieces about an inch long, and the tliick part again cut into four. Dredge it Avell Avith flour, and fry it in a quarter of a pound of good butter till of a nice broAvn coloiur. Slice and fry in the same butter tAvo caiTots, one turnip, two onions, half a head of celery, tAvo mushrooms, and a piece of garlic as big as a pea. When brown, put the whole into a stCAv- pan Avith a quart of Avater, a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonftd of moist sugar, a saltspoonftil of mustard, a saltspoonful of black pepper, and six peppercorns. Boil up quickly, skim, then simmer very gently for tAvo hours. Skim off every particle of fat; take out the tail, strain the soup ; add to it three pints of stock (No. 1) ; put in the tail; stir in a tablespoonful of soy and half a grain of cayenne. Simmer three-quarters of an hour longer. Add a large Avineglassful of port Avine, and serA'^e immediately. 30. WHITE SOUP. (Three quarts.) Have ready a large foAvl, four pounds of lean A'cal, a large lettAice, a carrot, tAvo onions, a lemon, an ounce of sweet almonds,