65 MUTTON CUTLETS. A BUT MALAY CUliKY. boiling Avater, a teaspoonfiil of salt, and a dessertspoonful of sugar, and boil till done (about eighteen minutes) ; drain off the Avater, rub the spinach through a fine Avire sieve, and put it into a saucepan ; add a dessertspoonful of sifted sugar and a quarter of a gill of thick cream ; stir over the fire for five minutes. Place the spinach round the dish and the cutlets in the centre, the ends of the bones raised in the middle of the dish. Note.—Sorrel is dressed exactly as spinach, omitting the sugar. Some persons object to sugar v'ith spinach, Avhich should be ascertained before using it. 189. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH INDIAN SAUCE. HaA'e six or eight cutlets off the best end of the neck, the third of an inch thick; trim off aU the fat and gristle, leaving only the round piece of lean; beat them Avith a chopper ; brush them over Avith beaten egg, and strcAv them Avith fine crumbs of bread, seasoned Avith the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, and half a salt- spoonful of salt; put them into a tin dish, Avith a small piece of butter (a quarter of an ounce to each) under and on each, and bake in a moderate oven about three-quarters of an hour ; they must be a light broA\m colour. Chop fine a teacupful of Indian pickle; add to it a tablespoonful of chutney, tAvo tablespoonfuls of stock or gravy ; simmer ten minutes, and serve Avith the cutlets; place the cutlets in a circle, and the sauce in the centre. 190. A DRY MALAY CURRY. Pick a cauliflour into small pieces, and Avell Avash them; chop tAvo onions and one sour apple; pick a pint of fresh boiled shrimps; trim the fat off of five or six mutton cutlets ; knead a quarter of a poimd of butter Avith tAvo tablespoonfuls of cuiry-poAvder and a teaspoonful of salt. Put the butter, onions, and apple into a steAvpan, and fry till broAvn ; lay in the cutlets, then the cauli- flour and shrimps. Add a piece of garlic as big as a pea (bruised), shake the pan frequently, and let it simmer for an hour and three-quarters; add the strained juice of a large lemon. Place the cutlets round the dish, and the caulifloAver in the centre; serve very hot, Avith a separate dish of boiled rice. Wa.sh half a pound of the best rice, put it into three pints of E