276 PLAIN COOKING. the pudding into a bolster form. Dip a cloth into boiling water, dredge it with flour, fold it well round the pudding, tie up both ends ; lay it in boiling water, Avithout bending, and boil quickly for an hour and three quarters. Take off the cloth carefully, cut the pudding into six pieces, turn the cut side upAvards, and serve quite hot. 825. CUEEANT DUMPLINGS. A pound of dry flour, half a pound of Avell-Avashed currant.c, half a pound of beef-suet, finely chopped, half a saltspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of moist sugar, mixed Avith Avater into a dough; make up into eight or ten dumplings ; put them into boil- ing Avater, and boil rapidly for three quarters of an hour, stirring them fi-om the bottom constantly. Drain before the fire for five minutes before serving. Note.—If preferred boiled in a cloth, tie each in a separate piece; but in that case it Avould be better to make a pudding, Avhich would require boiling three hours and a half. 826. CHAELOTTE PUDDING. Butter a large basin ; streAV it thickly Avith moist sugar ; cut some thin slices of bread and butter Avithout crust, peel and slice very thin three or four apples; have a pot of marmalade; put a layer of bread into the basin, butter doAAmwards, then marmalade, then apples; continue to do this till the basin is quite fiiU; press it well doAvn ; put a plate over, with a Aveight upon it, and bake in a quick oven for three quarters of an hour for a pint and a half basin, and an hour for a quart. Turn out carefully, and serve hot. 827. APPLE PEITTEES WITHOUT EGGS. Peel some large apples ; cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick; take out the core. IMake a batter Avith a pint of mild ale and four tablespoonfuls of dried flour; beat it for twenty minutes; dissolve some fresh di-ippiug, dip each piece of apple into the batter, and fry to a pale broAA-n colour. Serve very hot. 828. CUEEANT PEITTEES, TOEKSHIEE. IMake a batter as in the preceding receipt, or Avith milk and tAvo eags ; put in three ounces of Avell-AA^ashed cun-ants and one