SUPERLATITE MIXTURE. PICKLED WALNUTS AND ONIONS. 287 When quite cold, strain and bottle it. Cork closely, and keep it for three months before using. Note.—Ketchup may be made early in October with the husks of ripe nuts, but the flavour is not so good. 861. SUPEEL.\TIVE MIXTUEE. (For gravies, stews, &o.) An oimce of garlic, six pickled walnuts, and an ounce of anchovies, pounded, a tablespoonful of finely grated horseradish, the grated rind of a lemon, a saltspoonful of cayenne, a teaspoon- ful of ground ginger, a teaspoonful of yellow mustard seed, and a saltspoonful of celery seed, pounded, the fourth part of a nutmeg, grated, a tablespoonful of curry powder, a quart of mushroom- ketchup, half a pint of soy, the strained juice of three lemons, and a pint of port tvine. Mix these ingi-edients together, bottle the mixture, cork it closely, and place it in a warm closet for three weeks. The longer it is kept, the better. Shake the bottle before using. 862. PICKLED WALNUTS. (To be made in July.) Half a sieve of young green walnuts. Boil three pounds of salt in two gallons of water for ten minutes; pour it into an earthen pan, and when cold put in the nuts and let them remain for six days; then pour off the brine and add some fi:esh, made in the same proportions, and let them stand .six days longer. Drain off the brine, and lay the walnuts in the sun till they become black ; turn them frequently. Boil a gallon of the best vinegar with an ounce of bruised ginger, six blades of mace, bruised, twenty cloves, half an ounce of Avhole pepper, throe quarters of an ounce of mustard-seed, a clove of garlic, and six shalots. Place the walnuts in large jars; pour the vinegar over, boiling hot; put an equal quantity of the spice into each jar, and when cold tie them down and keep for three months or longer before using. 863. PICKLED ONIONS. (To be made in August.) Make a brine by boiling one pound and a half of salt in a gallon of water; put it into an earthen pan to get cold. The onions must be small and the white kind. Rub off the skins