202 PUDDINGS, PASTKY, JELLIES, CKEAM, ETC. juice of two leraous, one beaten egg, and lialf a gill of milk or water; mix these ingredients, and beat with a Avooden spoon for ten minutes. Wring a cloth out of hot water, dredge it with flour, divide the paste into four or five equal parts, make each up in the form of a ball, tie them in the cloth separately, put them into boiling Avater, and boil fast for an hour. Serve hoi, Avith loaf sugar sifted over them. 567. RICH LEMON DUMPLINGS. Six ounces of sifted crumbs of bread, half a pound of beef- marroAV, chopped, six ounces of loaf sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of tAvo lemons, tAvo beaten eggs, and half a gill of milk; mix these ingredients, and let it stand for half an hour; then beat the mixtm-e for ten minutes, divide it into five or six equal parts, tie each in a cloth ; plimge them in fast-boiling Avater, and boil fast for an hour. Serve Avith blanched SAveet almonds, finely chopped (an ounce), strewed over, or Avith sifted sugar. Note.—Either of these mixtures may he made into a pudding; in that case, boil in a basin for three hoAirs. 568. HASTY PUFFS. Put three-quarters of a pint of neAv millr into a saucepan, Avith the thin rind of half a lemon and an inch of cinnamon, and boil up ; then stir in quickly three ounces of flour ; AA’hen AveU mixed, add three ounces of butter and three tablespoonfuls of sugar; Avhen nearly cold, add three Avell-beaten eggs. Take out the peel and cinnamon, beat for five minutes. Butter six small cups; put a sixth part of the mixtm-e into each, and bake in a quick oA’’en for ten or tAvelve minutes. Turn out, and serve, Avith any kind of preserve placed round the disli. 569. PUDDINGS IN HASTE. An equal quantity of fine crumbs of bread, beef-suet, chopped, and currants, Avell Avashed; half the quantity of sugar, eggs, and milk ; mix Avell. Dip some small cloths in hot Avater; AATing them dry ; dredge Avell Avith flour, put a teacupful of the mixture into each, tie them up tightly, throAv them into boiling Avater, and boil fast for tAventy minutes. Turn out carefully, sift loaf sugar OA'cr, and serve at once.