25 MAYONNAISE OF LOBSTER. BOILED TROUT. sauce, then half of the salmon; cover it with sauce. Add the remainder of the sidmon, cover that with sauce ; then a layer of sidad, and the remainder of the sauce; finish with the rest of the salad. Ornament the top with alternate slices of beetroot and fresh cucumber, and send to table at once. Note.—Some persons object to onions and herbs; either or both may be omitted. The quantity is sufficient for four or sis persons. I 60. MAYONNAISE OF LOBSTER. Take oitt the meat of two moderate-sized fresh boiled hen lob- sters, and cut it into inch squares. In all respects follow the fore- going receipt, substituting the lobster for salmon. Ornament the top with crawfish, cucumber sliced, and lobster spawn pounded. 61. TO DRESS SALMON FOR MAY'ONNAISE. When a Mayonnaise for company is required, the following mode of preparing the salmon will be found preferable to plain boiling. For twelve or fourteen persons have a piece out of the middle of a large fish, weighing four or five pounds. Put into a bright stmvpan four shalots and half of a good sized carrot, sliced, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, four sprigs of jjarsley, a sprig of cheiril, a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, a laurel leaf, a tea- spoonful of salt, and six ounces of butter; boil for five minutes. Put in the salmon, with a pint of Marsala (or any Avhite wine), and a pint of water ; boil up quickly, then simmer very gently for thirty minutes ; drain. When quite cold take off the skin, pull out the bones, divide the fish into fiakes two inches square, and finish according to the receipt for Mayonnaise; using the quan- tities accoi'ding to the number of persons to be served. 62. BOILED TROUT. Put the fish into nearly boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt; boil up quickly, then simmer till done. A trout weighing one pound will require twelve minutes; two pounds, fifteen minutes; three pounds, twenty minutes. After the water boils, skimming must be carefully attended to. Serve on a neatly folded napkin, with a tureen of good melted butter, unless other sauce bo ordered.