105 calf’s-iiead COLLOPS. CAH'’S feet. "rated, the "rated rind of half a lemon, and two tablespoonfiils of ivell-haked flour. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, and when dissolved, put in the head. Shake the pan till the butter is absorbed; then pour in by degrees (shaking the pan constantly) three-quarters of a pint of the liquor the head was boiled in ; add one shalot, finely chopped, the juice of a lemon, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Stir in a wineglassful of Madeira, brown sherry, or Marsala, and serve at once, w’ith a cut lemon and cayenne on a plate. 283. CALF’S-HEAD COLLOPS. (Second dressing.) Cut some neat slices of cold head the third of an inch thick and four inches long. Make a batter with two eggs, two table- spoonfuls of dried dour, and the third of a pint of new milk. Beat the batter for ten minutes. Dip the slices of head into the batter and fi-y in oil (half a pint) or in butter (quarter of a pound) till of a golden-brown colour. Serve very hot, with cirt lemons and cayenne to be handed, or with the following sauce in a tureen:—Quarter of a clove of garlic, one shalot, two mush- rooms, one sour apple, three sprigs of j^arsley, two sprigs of chervil, six leaves of tarragon, all very finely chopped. Put them into a saucepan, with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a tea- spoonful of moist sugar, a grain of cayenne, a saltspoonful of made mustard, half a saltspoonful of salt, and a gill of any kind of stock or gravy. Knead an ounce of butter with a dessertspoonful of baked flour, and stir in ; boil for ten minutes. Add a Avineglass- ful of Mar.sala or sherry, and serve at once. 284. calf’s feet, AVITII SPANISH SAUCE. Boil two feet for four hours, in sufficient Avater to eover them ; simmer, and skim occasionally; split them, and trim off any rough pieces, and roll them in a cloth to dry ; season two ounces of fine crumbs of bread Avith a saltspoonful of salt, half a salt- spoonful of Avhite pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, half a clove of garlic, chopped fine ; Avell mix these ingredients. Dip the feet into beaten egg, then into the crumbs; let them remain a quarter of an hour; then redip them, and fry in stdad oil (the third of a pint),or in dissolved butter (six ounces) till of