Opinions of the Press. Sunderland Herald, l''eb. 26, 1864. you have for dinner?” they will prove a most welcome relief. In the main, Cre-fydd appears to have reco°:nised the wholesome principle; and if she has here and there, in the e.\cusable pride of matured experience, ventured to give us a grand combination, it will only enhance the value of her book in the opinion of the higher votaries of the culinary art. That she has carefully studied the details of that mysterious science, and that her disciples may derive great benefit from the knowledge she has so laboriously acquired and so lucidly set forth, there cannot be a moment’s doubt.’ Bell’s Weekly Messenger, April 2, 1861. 25 ‘ The notes appended to the receipts are very valuable charming little hints, laden with instruction. A new class of dishes is found in “ Cre-Fydd ”—we refer to those with the heading in brackets (second dressing). We have looked carefully through the bills of family fare—we pronounce them so good, and so well arranged, as to leave us to desire nothing better than that they should be the diary of our gastronomic doings for 1864. We heartily recommend the book, and would advise all our fair young brides who desire to see their husbands eat a good dinner in good temper at their own tables, to include “ Cre-Fydd ” amongst the treasures of their trousseau, and suggest to our valued friends, the matrons, that if they place it on their book-shelves, they will often turn to it as a valuable help and coadjutor.’ York Herald, Jan. 30, 1864. 26 ‘This book we have referred to a jury of our female friends, who have discussed its merits, and have pronounced a most favourable opinion of the work. Every wife or daughter who was not well up in such affairs would do well to take this book into their confidence.’ Yorkshire Gazette, Jan. 30, 1864. 27 ‘ In a new work on cookery, published under the somewhat singular title, “ Cre-Fydd’s Family Fare, the Young Housewife’s Daily Assistant,” the writer, a Yorkshire lady, gives excellent hints to mistresses and servants.’ Leeds Mercury, Jan. 15, 1864. 28 ‘ We think, after a careful perusal, it fulfils our views in conformity with the wants of the middle class, possessed of only moderate incomes. It takes up entirely new ground, and forms and executes a plan totally different from that of its predecessors. The part called “ Remarks and Directions to be Remembered,” is one of the most valuable parts of the book, and we believe not to be found in any other cookery-book. It consists of a clear explanation of many of the terms used in the succeeding receipts, and directions as to the state, preparation, use, and management of the various utensils and ordinary condiments employed in cooking, as well as accurate information in conducting the processes of roasting, boiling, braising, and steaming. A part to our mind is of the greatest importance in promoting the comfort, well-being, and happiness of a household, and which appears under the modest title of “A Few Things Worth Knowing.” It contains a variety of suggestions as to what medical stores the careful housewife should always have at hand; what is to be done in the event of sudden attacks of illness, such as fainting fits or paralysis, until proper medical aid can be procured.’ Stockton Herald, Jan. 29, 1864. 29 ‘ “ Cre-fydd ” has to our mind fulfilled her mission, as the writer of a good practical book on cookery, but in our estimation there are other points in the book of at least as much importance and value. We allude to the excellent information and advice to be found under the title “ A Few Things Worth Knowing.” There are introduced a variety of “ Hints to the-Mistress ” as to hiring servants, ordering dinners, keeping accounts, the proper contents of the store-closet, the right quantities to be given out to servants, and the length of time those quantities ought properly to last, the seasonable time for laying in stores, the suitable weekly stores for the kitchen, as well as many other matters of the same description, which arc well worthy of attention. The next minor head is ‘Hints to Servants.” Herein are to be found many invaluable directions as to the distribution of the work of the household between the servants ; the lime when, and the mode in which it should be performed; the proper appliances to be employed in tier- forming It, and the mode of using them.’ Darlington and Stockton Times, Jan. 30, 1864. t 30 Cre-fydd’’desires to be a real friend, and the puzzling question: “What shall we nave for dinner? is answered with suwli circuinstantiulity that in one part of her volume she jjiyes the materials for two meals for every day in the year. The Hints on Carvinir” fnp nf M Pr''-e<l I’V tl'osc wlio look in vain for the arrival of the time when that department of labour shall be consigned to the side-