76 LAMB. luls of wliite pepper. Put the meat into a pie-dish that will just contain it, and pour over half a teacupful of cold water. Make a paste as follows :—Put half a pound of dry flour into a basin; squeeze the juice of half a lemon into a teacupful of cold water, and mix sufficient into the flour to make it into a stifl’ paste; lay it on the pasteboard, knead it flat, put into the centre seven ounces of good butter, roll it out three times, always the same way ; then let it stand for two or three hours ; line the edge of the dish with strips tliree-quarters of an inch broad; w'et the surface; roU the remainder out as nearly as possible the size of the dish, cover it, press the edge to make it adhere ; shave off’ the rough edge with a sharp knife, notch it round at half-inch dis- tances ; make a small hole in the centre ; ornament with leaves of paste, and bake in a well heated oven for an hour and a half. 219. LAJMB’S fry. Have a lamb’s fry of about one pound and a half weight, and quite fresh; ■wipe the liver, which should be in slices the third of an inch thick, dredge it with baked flour, and set it aside. Put the remainder of the ff-y into a quart of hot water, with a teaspoonfi'd of salt; boil up for three minutes ; drain; then fold the fry in a clean cloth to dry. Eub about three ounces of crumb of bread through a fine wire sieve ; season it with a saltspoonful of salt, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, the peel of half a lemon, grated, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, and a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley ; beat one fresh egg ; dip each piece of the fry into the egg, then into the crumbs, and fry in butter (six ounces) till of a pale brown colour on both sides (about twelve minutes) ; drain on a sieve before the fire ; fry the liver eight minutes ; place it round the dish, and tlie remainder of the fry in the centre ; garnish Avith fried parsley. Serve very hot, Avith or Avithout the folloAving sauce in a tureen :—Peel and Avash eight button mushrooms, chop one slialot; put tliem into a saucepan Avith the strained juice of a small lemon, a winsglassful of Marsala, a sjiltspoonful of sifted sugar; boil up; add a tea- cupful of any good stock, mixed Avith a dessertspoonful of baked flour ; boil and skim for ten minutes ; then serve.