128 POULTRY. of warm water; simmer (skimming often) very gently, till reduced to half the quantity. Knead an ounce of butter with a dessertspoonful of flour, and stir in, add a teaspoonful of soy. Boil ten minutes, and strain. Rub four ounces of crumb of bread one day old, in a coarse clean cloth till in fine crumbs. Put it into a bright saucepan, with two shalots, finely chopped, one clove, two allspice, three peppercorns, and three-quarters of a p>int of new milk ; boil till the milk is absorbed (twenty minutes), take out the spice, and rub the bread through a fine hair sieve. Put it again mto the saucepan ; boil up; stir in a teaspoonful of thick cream or a quarter of an ounce of fresh butter, and serve in a tureen. Note. —The quantity of gravy and sauce given is sufBcient for a pair of chickens or a capon. 334. CAPON, STUFFED WITH ITALIAN FORCEMEAT. Scrape half a pound of lean veal from the fillet, chop a quarter of a pound of veal suet, sci'ape an ounce of lean ham, boil three fresh eggs twelve minutes; pound the whole (except the whites of the eggs) till in a paste; season with half a saltspoonful of white pepper, half a saltspoonful of fiour of mustard, half a salt- spoonful of salt, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, the grated rind of half a lemon, half a salt.spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, and a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley; add two well- beaten eggs, clean and slice three tnrffles, mix them with the stuffing. Raise the skin from the upper part of the breast; lay in as much forcemeat as it will contain to look well; put the remainder into the body; cover the capon with paper spread with butter (three ounces), and roast before a good fire for an hour and a half, basting frequently. Serve with gravy made as directed in the preceding receipt. 335. BOILED FOWLS, WITH WHITE S.YUCE. Let the fowls bo neatly trussed for boiling; place them in a stewpan, and cover them with new milk; boil up quickly, tlien simmer as gently as possible till done. Spring chickens will require sixteen minutes; fine fowls twenty-five minutes ; capons, IVom forty to fifty minutes. In each case the time to be reckoned from the boiling up. I\Iake a sauce as follows:—Knead two dessertspoonfuls of baked fiour Avith three ounces of butter, and