KAVIUOLI sour AND OLLA PODUIDA. 11 three-comered piilFs; press tlie edges well round with the thumb to make them adhere ; drop them one by one into a saucepan of boiling water with a teaspoonful of salt in it, and boil slowly for seven minutes. Take them up carefully and drain on a sieve, in the oven, for ten minutes. Stir into the soup foiu’ tablespoonfuls of baked flour and three teaspoonfuls of Parmesan cheese ; then strain. Put it into a stewpan ; boil up ; throw in the raviuoli; boil slowly for twenty minutes; add the port wine, and serve immediately, Avith a dish of grated Pannesan separate. Note.—Leveret or pigeons may be substituted when partridges are not to be had. 28. OLLA PODEIDA. (Containing soup and four dishes complete.) Provide the following articles, and proceed as directed:—About a pound and a half of rumpsteak, three-quarters of an inch thick, six cutlets off the best end of the neck of mutton, as thick as the bone, the fat and ends all trimmed off: a fine sweetbread, blanched, trimmed and larded ; four sheep’s kidneys; a fine young fowl, trussed for boiling; the livers of four fotvls; one quarter of a pound of mild lean ham, cut as thin as possible; six fresh eggs, half a pound of butter, a pint of fresh-shelled young peas, twelve button mushrooms, eight large tomatoes, twelve button onions, a lettuce, a cucumber, a large onion, two small carrots, two small turnips, a clove of garlic, two truffles, half a pint of thick cream, half a pint of Madeira or hlarsala, a wineglassful of port, and a tablespoonful of brandy. Peel, scrape, and Avasli aU the vege- tables. Tie up, in separate pieces of coarse clear muslin, the mushrooms, peas, small onions, and tomatoes. Cut into inch shreds the remainder of the vegetables, truffles, kidneys, ham, and livers. Put them into a bright stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and fry to a pale brown colour. Lay in the steak and cutlets; season with a saltspoonful of white pepper, a teaspoonful of fresh-made mustard, a dessertspoonful of loaf sugar, a grain of cayenne, half a gi-ain of saffron, half a grain of powdered mace, half a grain of powdered ginger, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, and a .saltspoonful of salt. Pour in the Madeira. Put in the fowl, the breast uppermost; add two quarts of water. BoU up quickly, skim, then simmer gently for a quarter of an hoiir. Put in the sweetbread, the larding uppermost, and continue to