215 APPLE, ORANGE, AND BICE FRITTERS, eight minutes for each pancake. Servo as quickly as done, ■with cut lemon and sugar separate. Note.—The quantity given ■will make four pancakes of a moderate size, or sis small ones. 611. APPLE FKITTEKS, Make a batter as directed for pancakes in the preceding receipt. Pare two or three large (cooking) apples; cut them into'seven or eight slices the third of an inch thick; scoop out the core neatly, making a round hole in the centre of each slice ; lay them in a stewpan, with three ounces of sifted loaf sugar, the strained juice of a lemon, and the grated rind, and simmer (uncovered) for ten minutes; place them on a plate ; poui’ the syrup over, and let them stand to imbibe the sugar for two hours or longer; wipe each piece; dip it into the batter, and fry in butter or oil till of a golden colour; drain on a sieve before the fire ; sift sugar over, and serve on a neatly folded napkin. Must be sent to table quickly, and very hot. G12. OK.YNGE FEITTERS. Pare three large ripe oranges; free them entirely from the white skin ; divide each into four parts; take out the pips with a sharp penknife. Dissolve three ounces of loaf sugar in the juice of one orange and a tablespoonful of rum ; boil till in a thick syrup, and pour over the oranges; let them stand for two houi’s; divide partially, each quarter, so as to form a round fi.’itter; then proceed as directed in the preceding receipt. 613. RICE FRITTERS, Wash and drain dry three ounces of the best rice ; put it into a saucepan with three ounces of sugar, the thin rind of half a lemon, an inch of cinnamon, and nearly a pint of milk; boil (stirring frequently) for three-quarters of an hour; then rub through a fine wire sieve. Beat three fresh eggs, yolks and whites separately; add the yolks; beat for ten minutes; then add the whites; beat five minutes more; then fry in butter (in a small omelet-pan) till of a golden colour on both sides. Drain before the fire; sift fine loaf sugar over, and serve on a neatly folded napkin. Note.—The quantity given will make five fritters; three-quarters of au ounce of butter will be required for each.