10 SOUPS, BROTHS, ETC. 27. EAYIUOLI SOUP. (Three quarts.) Have in readiness the following articles :—A fowl or pheasant, two partridges, three pounds of lean veal, three pounds of lean beef, half a pound of lean ham, two carrots, four onions, one head of celery, four mushrooms, a small bunch of mixed sweet herbs, a laurel leaf and four sprigs of parsley (all tied together), garlic, shalot, butter, flour, eggs, Parmesan cheese, new Iveuf- chatel cheese, spinach, spice, half a gill of port wine, and a wine- glassful of either Madeira or Mar-sala. Peel and cut up the vegetables and half a clove of garhc. Put them into an iron pot, with six ounces of butter, the beef, ham, and veal, and stand one hour by the fire to brown and extract the gravy. Then put in a quart of tvarm water, and the birds, breasts upper- most; simmer for an hour. Take out the birds, cut off the meat from the breasts, about three ounces of each, without skin. Put back the carcases into the pot, add four quarts of warm water, a tablespoonful of soy, a dessertspoonful of loaf-sugar, a teaspoon- ful of salt, a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, a grain of cayenne, a saltspoonful of pepper, a blade of mace, four allspice, three cloves, six peppercorns, and the herbs. Simmer gently, and skim frequently, for five hours. In the meantime, make the raviuoli as follows:—Eub two ounces of butter into six ounces of weU-dried flour; moisten with two beaten yokes of fresh eggs and half a gill of ■water; knead and roll out the paste a quarter of an inch thick, and let it stand in a cool dry place for three or four hours; pound the meat of the breasts, an ounce of lean ham, an ounce of Neufchatel cheese, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, an ounce of cooked spinach, and one slialot. Season with the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, half a saltspoon- ful of white pepper, a quarter of a saltspoonful of flour of mus- tard, a teaspoonful of thick anchovy-sauce, half a saltspoonful of loaf sugar; add an ounce of butter and a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. Pound to a smooth paste; mix in the Marsala. Poll out the paste as thin as possible; cut it into two and a half inch squares (about sixteen) ; brush them over with water; divide the forcemeat into the same number of parts; put one into each square; tmm over one corner so as to form small