BROWN AND WHITE FRICASSEE OF RABBIT. 165 395. BEOWJSr FRICASSEE OF RABBIT. Ciit a young rabbit into joints, put it into cold water with a clove of garlic, and let it remain an boirr; wipe it dry, and dredge each piece with baked flour. Peel twelve button onions and twenty button mushrooms, and fry them in butter (a quarter of a pound) tiU slightly browned; then drain. Fry the rabbit in the same butter, till of a pale brown colour; then drain. Mix into. the butter one tablespoonful of flour, a saltspoonful of pepper, a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of sugar, a teaspoon- lid of chopped parsley, half a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, a tablespoonful of Harvey-sauce, and three-quarters of a pint of any stock ; boil fast for ten minutes; then stand it aside for the butter to rise ; skim and strain. Cut into inch pieces a quarter of a pound of good mild streaky bacon, put it into the gravy with the rabbit, and simmer gently for twenty-flve minutes; then add the mushrooms, onions, a wineglassful of Marsala or sherry, and the juice of a lemon; continue to simmer fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve very liot. 39G. WHITE FRICASSEE OF RABBIT. Cut the rabbit into joints and soak it in cold water for two hours. Put into a stewpan three or four slices of fat bacon, half a can-ot, a large onion, half a clove of garlic, half a head of celery, a bunch of parsley, a bay leaf, a laurel leaf, and two sprigs of thyme, all cut up; lay in the rabbit, and on that put three or four slices of bacon ; stand the stewpan by the side of the fire for an hour. The rabbit should be firm and perfectly white. Make a sauce as follows:—Half a pint of stock (No. 2), a saltspoonful of loaf sugar, a saltspoonful of salt, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, and a dessertspoonful of baked flour; boil up, put in the rabbit, and simmer for twenty minutes. Beat the yolks of two fresh eggs with a gill of good cream; lay the rabbit neatly on a hot dish ; pour the juice of a lemon over it; stir the cream and eggs into the sauce for two minutes; pour it over the aabbit, and serve. The bacon may be rolled, browned before the fire, and used to garnish the dish.