POULTKY. 140 stewpan, with rather more than a pint of fresh-shelled young peas^ a teaspoonful of loaf sugar, and a saltspoonful of salt; boil rapidly, uncovered, for ten minutes ; put in the duck, and simmer gently for twenty-five minutes more. Place the duck on a hot dish ; puU out the skewers; pour the peas and gravy into the dish, and serve at once. 360. BRAISED DUCK, IVITH OLIVES. Soak a teacupful and a half of olives in cold water for three hours; split them on one side, and take out the stone; press a quarter of a clove of garlic into an ounce of butter, dip it into white pepper, and put into the body of the duck; spread two ounces of butter over the breast, and on that lay a thin slice of fat bacon. Put it into a stewpan, Avith two onions, half a carrot, four sprigs of parsley, a bay leaf, one clove, and a saltspoonful of salt. Fry oA’^er the fire till the duck is browued slightly; then add three-quarters of a pint of strong stock, of any kind, and simmer for three quarters of an hour; baste the duck constantly Avith the gravy ; take out the duck, put it into the OA'en for ten minutes ; stir into the gi’avy a tablespoonful of flour; boil rapidly for ten minutes (Avithout the lid). Skim off aU the fat, and strain through a sieve ; put the gravy back into the steAvpan; AA'ash and Avipe the olives; put them into the gravy; bod up quickly. Put in the duck Avithout the bacon, and simmer for tAventy minutes. Place the duck on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. 361. HASHED DUCK. (Second dressing.) Cut up the remains of cold duck, about one pound, season it Avith a saltspoonful of pepper, a grain of cayenne, and a salt- spoonful and a half of salt. Chop one large onion and a sour apple; put them into a stcAvpan AA’ith tAvo ounces of butter, and fry till slightly broAvn; stir in a tablespoonful of flour, a salt- spoonful of flour of mustard, and a teiispoonful of loaf sugar. When Avell mixed, add half a pint of strong stock, of any kind, the strained juice of half a lemon, and a tablespoonful of brandy. When nearly cold, put in the duck, and simmer gently for tAA'enty minutes; skim, and serve very hot.