178 PUDDINGS, PASTIIY, JELLIES, CKEAMS, LTC. moderate oven about an hour and a quarter. Turn out carefuUv, 'and serve. Note.—This pudding may also be boiled ; it requires three hours. Serve •with thick cream, and sugar sifted over. 479. ANNETTE’S PUDDING. Three ounces of s-weet, and four bitter ahnonds, blanched and pounded, t-wo ounces of ground rice, two ounces of dried flour, four ounces of loaf sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, six ounces of candied fi-uit, cut up, two tablespoonfuls of brandy, thi-ee fresh eggs, well beaten, a giU of new milk, and half a poimd of fresh butter. Beat the butter till it becomes cream ; then mix in all the ingredients by degrees, the eggs and milk last; beat for ten minutes. Butter a mould, put in the pudding, tie it down, plunge it in plenty of boihng water, and boil fast for three hours. Serve with sugar sifted over it, or with either of the preceding sauces. 480. A PUDDING FOE A PEINCE. Blanch six bitter, and two ormces of sweet almonds, boil them twenty minutes in the third of a pint of new milk, then poimd them to a paste ; when the milk is nearly cold, add four well- beaten fresh eggs, half a gill of thick cream, and two tablespoon- fuls of brandy; rub six ounces of stale sponge-cake to crumbs. Mix these ingredients well, and beat for ten minutes; stir in two ounces of sifted loaf sugar. Butter a mould ; stick it round in Vandykes with dried cherries; pour in the mixture, tie it over with writing paper spread with butter, and steam over flist- boiling water for an hour and three-quarters. Turn out care- fully, and serve immediately, with the follo'ndng sauce in the dish or in a tureen. 481. CIIEEET S.\UCE. Moisten a teaspoonful of arrowroot with a tablespoonful of cold milk, and add to a gill of boiling milk; stir in a dessert- spoonful of sifted loaf sugar, boil two minutes. Dissolve a quarter of a pound pot of cherry jelly, and stir in by degrees ; .stir till quite smooth (off the fire), then serve as directed. Note.—The sauce should be of the consistency of thick cream, and of a bright rose colour.