286 CONDIMENT AND OTHEIl SAUCES, KTITCHDP, ETC- witli a gill of good cream. Strain the milk, and beat it by- degrees into the eggs; then put the sauce into an enamelled saucepan, and stir over a gentle heat till it thickens. Serve immediately. Or, Imead three oimces of fresh butter with a tablespoonful of baked flour, and stir into half a pint of boiling milk; boil ten minutes; add two tablespoonfuls of cream, and serve. 859. MUSIIEOOM KETCHUP. (To be made in August or September.) A sieve of large mushrooms; put them into an earthen pan, with one pound and a half of dry salt. Stir them, that the salt may be well mixed in. Let them stand for a week ; then drain off the liquor by pressing through a hair sieve. To every quart of liquor add three-quarters of an oimce of bruised ginger, a quarter of a nutmeg, bruised, ten cloves, a saltspoonful of allspice, , a teaspoonful of whole pepper, six corns of long pepper, a blade of mace, bruised, a small onion, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, and two inches of horseradish, cut into small pieces. Put the whole of these ingredients into a bright iron stewpan, and boil slowly, skimming Irequently, for two hours. Then boil fast for twenty minutes, skimming constantly. Pour the ketchup into an earthen pan, and when quite cold, strain and bottle it. Cork closely, and keep it two months before using. 860. WALISTJT KETCHUP. (To be made in Juty.) Two sieves of green walnuts; put them into an earthen pan, with two pounds of salt. Press and bruise them every day for ten days, when they will be quite black. Drain off the liquor; put it into a bright iron stewpan, and boil till scum ceases to rise, skimming constantly. Measure the liquor; and to every quart add two ounces of anchovies, three-quarters of an ounce of bruised ginger, a quarter of an ounce of whole pepper, a saltspoon- ful of allspice, ten cloves, a blade of mace, bruised, a tea.spoonful of mustard seed, a saltspoonful of celery seed, a piece of garlic as big as a pea, and a gill of good vinegar. Boil moderately fa.st, and skim for half an hour; then pour it into an earthen jiiin.