PIMEAPPLE, MILANESE, AND VENETIAN CREAMS. 221 C30. riNKAPPLE CREAM. Pare off the rough outside of a small ripe pine apple, then peel it sufficiently thick to take off all the eyes; put the peel into a saucepan with half a pint of water, and boil till the flavour is extracted ; then strain and let the liquor get cold. Cut the pine into half-inch square pieces, and strew over it nine ounces of loaf sugar, in powder, and two tablespoonfuls of brandy ; let it satu- rate for two hours; put the pine, sugar, &c., into the liquor, and boil fast for ten minutes, skimming constantly ; add three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass; boil ten minutes more ; pour it into a basin and stir into it (with a whisk) a pint and a gill of rich cream ; stir briskly till the mixture begins to thicken ; then pour it into a mould and j^lace it on ice till firmly set. Stir for ten minutes after placing it on the ice, to prevent the fruit sinking. Preserved pineapple may be used instead of fresh—half a pound and the syrup. In this case, three ounces of sugar boiled Avith the isinglass in half a pint of Avater Avill be sufficient. 631. MILANESE CREAM. A pint of new milk and five ounces of loaf sugar, boiled, three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a gill of Avater, the yolks of eight fresh eggs, AveU beaten; add the milk to the eggs while hot, but not boiling; stir over a gentle fire till at boiling heat; .strain into a basin ; stir in the isinglass and a gill of thick cream; flaA’our Avith twenty-five drops of any kind of essence, or Avith three tablespoonfuls of Maraschino, Cura9ao, or rum. Pour the mixture into a mould slightly rubbed Avith oil of sweet almonds, and let it stand in a cool place till firmly set. 632. VENETIAN CREAM. Make a cream as directed in the foregoing receipt, but instead of flavouring add eight ounces of apricot jam, or any kind of ju’e- served or candied fruit cut into small pieces. Stir till the cream begins to set, that the fruit may not sink to the bottom. 633. FRANCmi’.VNE CREAM. Put into an enamelled .saucepan the yolks of five fresh eggs, a tablespoonful of baked flour, three ounces of sifted loaf sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, half a teaspoonful of orange fioAvers