272 PLAIN COOKING. let it simmer gently for an hour and a half. Take out the onions; chop them fine ; add a tea,spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, two tablespoonfuls of dried flour, and an ounce of butter. Take out the rabbit, stir in the onions, boil for five minutes. Put in the rabbit again, simmer for five minutes, and serve, placing the rabbit on the dish and onions over it. 811. EOAST GOOSE. Peel and slice two large onions j put them into a basin, with a teaspoonful of salt, and pour over boiling water, and let them remain two hours; then wash them in cold water, and chop fine. Mix with them a saltspoonful of sage, finely powdered or chopped, a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of black pepper. Put this stuffing into the body of the goose, hang it before a good fire, and I'oast for one hour and three-quarters (two hours, if very large'), basting constantly. Make a gi’avy as follows :—Pry, in a little good dripping, one onion, sliced, and half a pound of gravy beef, till brown ; while frying, dust over the onion a teaspoonful of brown sugar. Put the beef and onion into rather more than a pint of water (and if you have any bones, add them), and stew for two hours and a half. Pour off the dripping, and mix the gravy that has dripped from the goose with the rest, adding a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper, half a saltspoonful of salt, and two dessert- spoonfuls of baked flour ; stir till quite smooth, and strain through a sieve. Place the goose on a very hot dish, pour a little gra-vy into the dish, and serve the rest in a tureen. Apple sauce must also be sent to table. 812. APPLE SAUCE. Pare and cut into small pieces six apples; put them into a saucepan, with two tablespoonfuls of moist sugar and one table- spoonful of cold water. Stand it by the side of the fire till the sugar dissolves ; then stir over a brisk fire till quite in pulp, and serve. 813. CKANBERRY TART. Put three pints of cranberries into a pan of cold water, and let them remain twelve hours. Wash tliem till the salt flavour is quite gone. Put them into a pie-dish, with the juice of a lemon and half a pound of moist sugar. Make a paste with three-