SKA PIE. HARICOT Oi' MUTTON. 259 dissolved dripping, a saltspoonful of salt, and mix them into a paste. Line a flat dish with a thin layer of potato ; put in the mutton ; pour over a cupful of made gi'avy ; cover over with the potato; smooth the top with a knife, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Turn it once or twice, that it may be equally browned. 768. PLAIN GEAVY FEOM BONES. Chop the bones of any cold meat, poultry, or game into small pieces. Fry an onion with a teaspoonful of brown sugar till of a good dark colour. Put the bones, the onion, a saltspoonful of salt, four peppercorns, two allspice, one clove, one bay leaf, and a pint and a half of cold water into a stewpan ; simmer for three hours. Mix a tablespoonful of dried floui’, a mustardspoonful of fresh-made mustard, half a saltspoonful of black pepper, a tea- spoonful of anchovy sauce, and a teacupful of cold water; stir it into the gravy, and continue to simmer half an hour longer. Strain. 769. SEA PIE. Sea pie is better made with raw meat, but it is very good with • either cold roast mutton or beef. Cut up about a pound into slices a quarter of an inch thick; season with a teaspoonful of salt and a large saltspoonful of pepper. Chop fine two onions. Make a paste with a pound of flour and half a j^ound of either STiet or dripping. Line a tin cake mould with the crust; put in the mutton, with half a pint of gravy; cover over the top neatly Avith the paste, and steam for three hours. Turn it out carefully on to a very hot dish, and seiwe immediately. Note.—If raw meat be used, gravy is xmnccossary, water will do, and it must then be steamed four hours. Ox kidneys or sheep’s hearts make a good sea pie. 770. HARICOT OP MUTTON. Cut up into small dice one carrot, one turnip, a small head of .celer)', the Avhite part of Uvo leeks, and let them be in cold water, with a spoonful of sjilt in it, for two hours. Drain olF tho water. Have three or four chump chops, trim oft’ some of the fat, put it into a fryingpan, and when hot put in the chops ; fry over a quick fire for four minutes, turning them once. Take out the chops, and put in the vegetables, and fry them ten minutes, s 2