Opinions of the Press. 4 16 Cre-Fydd’s Family Fare ; or, Young; Housewife’s Daily Assistant,” is exactly wliat it pretends to be—a book of plain simple directions from an experienced lady, who in her own houseliold has suffered from the intricacy of, and tlie often absurd directions with which, the best cookery books perplex good plain cooks and housewives.’ North Londo.v News, March 5, 18C4. 17 ‘Need we say more in commending the work to all who wish to profit by the experi- ence of a practical housewife ? ’ . Church Standard, J/arcA 4,18C4. 18 “‘Cre-fydd’s Family Fare ” enables young housewives, however inexperienced, to lay every day a dainty dish before the kings, their husbands, always provided that the cook be the right woman from the right place, instead of from that unpleasant servants’ registry suggested by the proverb, that *• Heaven sends meat,” &c. There is a bill of fare here for every day in the year—what to have for breakfast, what the two servants should dine off in the kitchen, and what should be served up—both tasty and economical —up-stairs, Uesides this, there is a cyclopaedia of cookery and a budget of things worth knowing in the housewife sense.’ Court Journal, March 5, 1864. 19 “‘The Young; Housewife’s Daily Assistant,” on all matters relating to cookery and housekeeping, is written in language adapted to the understanding of the cook, and yet such that the lady ‘‘will not object to read.” The directions are plain and simple, and have all been tested by the authoress, therefore they may be considered thoroughly reliable. Regarding the expenses, the materials to be employed are ‘‘ reasonably econo- mical,” and beyond this nothing can be promised. The work contains a ‘‘ bill of fare” for every day throughout the year, and for an occasional ” dinner party ”—some 900 recipes; and a chapter on “ Things Worth Knowing” is given. Among the above we have hints to mistresses and servants, and directions for carving. The book is printed with a copious inde.x, and deserves a large circulation.’—Public Upinio.v, Jan. 9,1864. 20 ‘ What constant variety may, without extravagance, be introduced into the ordinary meals of a household, is partly shown in a capital new housekeeper’s book, called “ Cre-fydd’s Family Fare.” Such a book would carry any housewife, resolved to become pleasantly skilled, as she ought to be, in culinary lore, far on her way.’ All the Year Round, Feb. 27, 1S64. 21 * ‘ The work is mainly designed for families that are in comfortable rather than opulent circumstances; some directions touching health and general comfort are added. The instructions are all plainly conveyed, and the volume will be a treasure to those young and inexperienced couples who have just issued out of the honeymoon into the more substantial moons of joints and made dishes.’ London Review, Feb. 27, 1S64. 22 ‘ Twelve bills of fare for dinners of entertainment are given, with the estimate cost; no less than 898 receipis lor all sorts of dishes, sauces, &c. ; receipts for punch liqueurs, &c.; a few things worth knowing as remedies for many of the ‘‘ ills that flesh is heir to:” directions for doing little things; hints on carving; hints to mistresses and servants, and a capital index to the whole.’ Cape Argus (English Edition), March 5, 1864. 23 ‘ It is no doubt true that most of our cookery books are not adapted to a moderate, economical, or to a reasonably luxurious household. They suppose a degree of wealth and knowledge which are the exception more than the rule. The authoiess of the bock before us has aimed to assist, not the few only, but a class beyond, and in the main she has been successful.’ Rritish Quarterly RsvtEW, April 1, 1864. ‘ We hail, in the pages of “ Cre-fydd,” a judicions resolve to supply that infomiation which is most wanted, and therefore most useful, and to prefer the claims of evep--day life to a mere di.“play of scientific gastronomy. To a voiiug and inexperienced house- keeper, suggestions such as these must be of the greatest utility : and to everyone, mar- ried or single, who has ever gone throng h the daily torture of being asked, ■' w Imt win