SOUPS, BROTHS, ETC. 14 mustard, a saltspoonful of black pepper, half of a grain of cayenne, four sprigs of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of mar- joram and a bayleaf. Pour in two quarts of water, boil up quickly, skim, and simmer for two hours. Take out the brains, pormd them in a mortar to a paste; mix with them three table- spoonfuls of fine oatmeal, two ounces of dissolved butter, a dessertspoonM of soy, two tablespoonfnls of mushroom ketchup, and a teaspoonfnl of tarragon vinegar; stir this into the .soup, and continue to simmer two hours longer, skimming fi-equently. Strain the soup through a fine sieve, cut the meat and the tongues (taking off the sldn) into neat square pieces, put them into the soup. Add a wineglassful of Marsala, and serve at once. 33. COCK-A-LEEKIE Put four pounds of lean beef into an iron pot with three quarts of water; simmer for foiu hours, skimming frequently. Take out the beef; strain the stock; wash and trim eight leeks ; cut the white part into inch lengths, and put them into cold water. Boil the green part of the leeks in the beef stock tiU quite in a pulp, then rub it through a tammy sieve. Have a fine young fowl trussed for boiling, put it into a stewpan, with the white pieces of leeks and the stock. Add two teaspoonfuls of salt and a saltspoonful of white,pepper. Boil up quickly, then simmer very gently for an hour. Serve in a tureen; or the fowl may be sent to table separately,-if preferred : in that case, reserve a cupful of soup to pour over it. Note.—^For the use of the beef, see directions for ‘ Stock Meat’ 34. SCOTCH HOTCH-POTCH. Put three scrags of fresh-killed mutton into a stewpan witli two quarts of Avater; stew them till aU the meat is off the bones; strain the broth, and take off the fat. Cut into slices one carrot, one turnip, tAvo onions, one lettuce, the heart of a small young cabbage ; grate the red part of tAvo carrots. Add these to the broth, and boil for half an hour ; then put in six neatly-trimmed neck cutlets of either mutton or lamb, a pint of young green peas, a small caulifloAver broken into pieces, a dessertsjx)onful of chopped pai'sley, a dessertspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful (not piled)