165 CUCUMBEIIS. vapidly (uncovered) for a quarter of an hour; strain off all the ■water, and rub the sorrel through a fine 'wire sieve. Put it into a stCAvpan, 'with two ounces of butter, half a saltspoonful of pepper, a dessertspoonful of baked flour, and stir till boiling; then mix in either the beaten yolks of two eggs or half a gill of cream, and serve, garnished with hard-boiled eggs cut into quar- ters, lengthways. 428. CUCUMBER. (To dress.) Pare the cucumber, and cut it into slices the eighth of an inch thick ; put it on a plate, and strew over it a dessertspoonful of salt ; let it remain two hours; throw it into a quart of cold Avater, and drain immediately on a napkin. Place the slices (which will have become quite thin) on a dish, neatly ; sprinkle over Avhite pepper (half a saltspoonfi.il), and half a grain of cay- enne ; add two tablespoonfuls of the best s;dad-oil (Lucca), and two dessertspoonfuls of vinegar. 429. STEWED CUCUMBERS, WHITE. Take tivo large cucumbers, fresh cut; peel them and cut them into four pieces, lengthways, and again each piece into tivo, slanting the knife that the ends may be pointed. Put them into a quart of cold water ivith a tablespoonful of salt in it, and let them remain half an hour ; drain them ; take out the seeds, and place the pieces of cucumber in a stewpan, with half a pint of veal stock (No. 2), a dessertspoonful of white vinegar, a teaspoon- ful of sifted sugar; simmer gently for half an hour. Beat the yolks of two fresh eggs ivith a gill of thick cream ; take out the cucumbers, place them on a dish; stir the eggs into the sauce for tAvo minutes, then pour it over the cucumbers, and serve imme- diately. 430. STEWED CUCUMBERS, BROWN. Prepare the cucumbers as directed in the foregoing receipt; place them in a steAvpan, Avith tAvo shalots, finely chopped, a tea- spoonful of broAvn sugar, half a saltspoonful of Avhite pepper, a tablespoonful of brown vinegar, a .saltspoonful of salt, two oimces of butter, and half a pint of stock . (No. 1); simmer gently for half an hour, and serve.