138 POULTRV. of white pepper, three ounces of butter, and four truflBes, peel the truffles and slice them the eighth of an inch thick; lay the meat, butter, and truffles, in alternate layers, in a fire-proof covered dish, and bake in a slow oven for an hour; then add the gravy, with a dessertspoonful of brandy and a tablespoonful of Madeira ; cover it quite close, and continue to bake for two hours more. Take off the cover tdl cold, when the butter will rise to the top. Note.—If you have not a covered dish, hate the meat in a covered jar, and turn it out while hot into an ordinary pie-dish; but it is better served in the dish it is baked in, as the meat and truffles are in layers. "When game is not in season, rabbit and pigeons may be substituted. 356. EOAST GOSLING, STUFFED. Boil three or four onions in plenty of water for a quarter of an hour ; drain and chop them small; mix with them two dessert- spoonfuls of fine crumbs of bread, half a saltspoonful of powdered sage, same of pepper, a saltspoonful of salt, the same of loaf sugar, half a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, a teaspoonful of brandy, and an ounce of dissolved butter ; mix well, and put this into the body of the gosling ; cover the breast with paper, spread vfith an oimce of butter, and roast before a brisk fire for fiffv minutes, basting constantly ; ten minutes before serving, take off the paper; dredge the gosbng slightly with baked flour, and baste till done. Serve with gravy and sauce made as follows:—Mix a tablespoonful of flotrr into three-quarters of a pint of stock (No. 1); add a teaspoonful of soy, half a grain of cayenne, half a saltspoonful of salt; boil fast for twenty minutes ; add the gravy dripped firom the gosling and the strained juice of half a lemon. Serve in a tureen. Put a jjint and a half of green gooseberries into a sauce- pan, with half a giU of water and three tablespoonfuls of moist sugar ; boil till quite soft (twenty minutes), then rub tlirough a sieve. Serve in a tureen. 357. EOAST DUCKS AND DUCKLINGS, STLTFED. Make a stuffing precisely as directed in the preceding receipt; the quantity given will be sufficient for two ducks; or the follow- ing stuffing may be preferred ;—Put two ounces of dry crumbs of bread into a saucepan, with three shalots, two sprigs of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two sage leaves, one clove, a qtiartcr of a s:ilt-