JUGGED HARE. BRAISED HARE. BRAISED LEVERET. 153 grated, the gi-ated rind and strained juice of half a lemon, a tablespoonful of brandy, and two beaten eggs; beat Avith a Avooden spoon till Avell mixed ; then make it up into balls rather less than a small Avalnut; dredge them Avell Avith baked flour, and fry in the butter skimmed off the gravy till slightly broAvned; lay them in the steAvpan Avilh the hare, and continue to simmer for forty minutes. SerA'e very hot, and with plenty of currant jelly in a plate. Note.—If not objected to, mix the blood of the hare Avith the stock; it thickens and much improves the graA'y. 391. JUGGED HAKE. (Yorkshire fashion.) Cut the hare up into joints; Avash and Avipe it dry ; dredge it over Avith three tablespoonfuls of flour; season Avith a teaspoonful of salt, tAvo saltspoonfuls of pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, the grated rind of half a lemon, and four shalots, finely chopped. Make a forcemeat as folloAvs :—Quarter of a pound of beef-suet, the liver, a tablespoonful of parsley, a teaspoonful of mixed SAveet herbs, tAvo ounces of crumbs of bread, a saltspoon- ful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, the grated rind and the juice of half a lemon, and tAvo beaten eggs. Chop and mix these ingredients; make up the forcemeat into balls the size of a Avalnut, and dredge them Avith flour. Lay the hare in a covered dish or jar with the balls; add a pint of stock (No. 1), the blood of the' hare, and a gill of port Avine ; put on the lid, tie it closely doAvn, and bake in a sloAv oven for tAvo hours and a half. Dish carefully, so as not to break the balls, and send to table very hot, Avith currant jelly on a plate. 392. BRAISED HARE. The folloAving receipt for leverets Avill also ansAvcr for hare, simmering three-quarters of an hour longer. 393. BRAISED LEVERET. Make a stuffing as follows :—Sca.son two ounces of fine crumbs of bread Avith a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a saltspoonful of mixed SAveet herbs, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, a salt-