POULTRY, 142 •\vidtli of the edge of the dish; lay it on. Roll out the rest to the length and width of the dish ; moisten the edge-paste with cold water; lay on the lid, press it round with the thumb to make it adhere., Trim off the rough edge with a sharp knife; notch it at inch distances; make a hole in the centre ; ornament to fancy, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Serve immediately. 364. ROAST PIGEONS. Knead together two ounces of butter, two dessertspoonfuls of dried fine crumbs of bread, a grain of cayenne, a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt, the same of pepper, a saltspoonful of chopped parsley, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, and one small shalot, finely chopped. Have two young pigeons, and put half of the stuffing into each; roast before q very quick fire for fifteen or eighteen minutes, basting constantly with butter. Serve with or without gravy. 365. STEWED PIGEONS. Stuff the pigeons as directed in the preceding receipt, and roast them for ten minutes. Peel twelve button onions, and fry them till slightly browned in an ounce of butter; dredge in a tablespoonftil of baked fl^our; stir till well mixed; then add half a pint of any good stock, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, a teaspoonful of soy, a teaspoonful of vinegar, a saltspoonful of good anchovy-sauce, and two tablespoonftils of port wine; put iu the pigeons, and simmer gently for half an hour. Serve very hot. 366. BROILED PIGEONS. The pigeons must be trussed flat. Knead rather more than an ounce of butter with a dessertspoonful of baked flour, a tea- spoonful of chopped chives, half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt, the same of pepper; stir over the fire for five minutes; dip the pigeons (two) in while warm, but not hot, and continue to do so till the mixtui'C aU adheres to them. Let them stand for an hour ; then broil over a bright fire for eighteen or twenty minutes. Seiwc with the following sauce in the dish:—Rub the bottom of a small saucepan twice across