233 queen’s cake, plum cake, etc. of loaf sugar, in fine powder, and twenty drops of vanilla ; beat with a wire whisk till in a firm froth. Devonshire cream and any kind of marmalade may be used instead of whipped cream. 673. queen’s cakes. Half a pound of dry flour, half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, six ounces of currants, well Avashed and rubbed in a coarse cloth, six beaten fresh eggs, half a pound of good butter, dissolved, but not in oil, the grated rind of half a lemon and two table- spoonfuls of brandy ; mix these ingi-edients together in the order they are mentioned, and beat the mixture for ten minutes ; pour it into small moulds of A'arious forms, and bake in a quick oven about fifteen minutes. 674. EICII PLUM CAKE. Put the folloAving ingredients into a pan (or large basin) in the order in Avhich they are given, then proceed as directed:— Three-quarters of a pound of good butter, beaten to cream, half a pound of richest moist sugar, three-quarters of a pound of cuiTants, Avell Avashed and dried, three-quarters of a pound of raisins, carefully stoned, six ounces of mixed candied peel, finely chopped, six bitter and one ounce of sAveet almonds, blanched and pounded, the grated rind of a lemon and the strained juice, a grain of poAvdered cloves, tAvo grains of poAvdered cinnamon, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, fourteen ounces of sifted flour, half a gill of ncAV milk, the yolks of six eggs, beaten Avith a Avineglassful of brandy ; beat the whole together till Avell mixed ; then add the Avhites of the eggs, beaten to froth ; continue to beat rapidly for twenty minutes. Turn the mi.xture into a large cake- tin lined Avith buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven about tAvo hours and a half. Turn the cake out carefully, and Avheu cold, ice it according to the directions in the folloAving receipt, or it may be used plain. 675. ALMOND PASTE AND ICING. (For rich cakes.) Blanch and pound to a flne paste twelve bitter and seven ounces of sweet almonds; add ten ounces of sifted loaf sugar, a tablespoonful of orange-floAver Avater, and the Avhitas of eight egg.s, beaten to a froth ; stir the mixture till it becomes a soft