265 calf’s head, veal collops, with bacon. 788. CALF’S HEAD STEWED, WITH OYSTEE-SAUCE. Soak half of a small calf’.s head (without the skin) for one hour in cold water, with a teacupful of vinegar in it. Well wash it in two or three waters; put it into a stewpan, with two onions, a bay leaf, a laurel leaf, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of msu-joram, two sage leaves, four sprigs of parsley, two cloves, four allspice, six black peppercorns, half of a carrot, and a pint and a half of cold water. Boil up quickly ; skim; then simmer gently for an hour and a half, skimming constantly. Take out the head, strain the liquor; add to it three tablespoonfuls of baked flour and the strained liquor of three dozen of oysters ; boil up ; put the head in again, and continue to simmer for three-quarters of an hour longer; add three dozen of oysters, simmer seven minutes, and serve. 789. calf’s head, BOILED. Prepare the head as directed in the foregoing receipt, and simmer in three quarts of water for one hour and a half. Serve, with parsley and butter poured over, and the tongue and brains in a separate dish. Mince the brains ; season with a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper, half a saltspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of baked flour, and half an ounce of butter ; stir over the fire for seven minutes. Skin the tongue, place it on a dish, and the brains round it. Note.—Eeserve the liquor for soup. 790. PAESLEY AND BUTTEE. Dip three or four sprigs of par.sley into boiling salt and water for one minute; chop the leaves quite fine ; knead two ounces of butter with a tablcspoonful of dried flour, and stir into half a pint of boiling water. Simmer for ten minutes; stir in the parsley, and serve at once. 791. VEAL COLLOPS, WITH BACON. Have some slices of veal cut from either the shoulder or the fillet; divide them into pieces three inches long and two broad ; beat them with a chopper; dredge each side with baked flour. Cut up about half a pound of bacon, take off the skin and the edge of the lean (the rashers should be a quarter of an inch