MUTTON. 62 tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, and a tablespoonful of baked flour ; rub a stew'pan three times across the bottom with garlic; put in the mutton, add a teacupful of gravy, a dessertspoonful of walnut ketchup, a tablespoonful of Oude-sauce, a dessertspoonful of walnut pickle, and a dessertspoonful of brandy or rum; simmer gently (stir occasionally) for half an hour. Boil a quarter of a pound of macaroni in a quart of water for half an hour; drain; put it into a saucepan, Avith half a pint of netv milk, an ounce of butter, half a saltspoonfol of salt, a saltspoonful-of fresh-made mustard, a quarter of a grain of cayenne; simmer till tender (a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes). Place it round the dish in the form of a wall; put the mince in the centre, and serve. 182. MUTTON, WITH TEUFFLES OR MUSHROOMS. (Second dressing.) Cut into neat slices a quarter of an inch thick, about one pound of cold roast leg of mutton; trim off the fat and skin; rub a piece of garlic twice across the bottom of a pie-dish ; chop an onion quite fine; put it into the dish, Avith an ounce of butter; season the meat with a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, and a quarter of a grain of cayenne ; put half of it into the dish. Peel four truffles or fotn large mushrooms; cut them into slices, lay them on the meat; add an ounce of butter, in four pieces; put in the rest of the meat, and another oimce of butter; pour over half a teacupful of mutton graAy; cover closely Avith another dish, and bake in a sloAv oven for three- quarters of an hour. Serve very hot. 183. BROILED MUTTON-CHOPS. The chops should be off the middle of the loin, three-quarters of an inch thick, and not too fat. The gridiron must be quite clean ; the fire quick and bright; the chops turned tAvo or three times Avith steak-tongs, or by placing the fork in the fat. For those Avho like them under-done, ten minutes Avill be sufficient; AA'cll-done, fifteen minutes. Serve them betAveen two hot plates (a chop to each person), the moment they are done, and without any addition. Note.—In giA’ing orders to the butcher for mutton-chops, be particular in saying: ‘ Tliree-quarters of an inch thick off the middle of the loin, and well-kept old mutton.’