176 PUDDINGS, PASTRY, .lEIXIES, CREAMS, ETC. 471. YICTOKIA’S PUDDING. Three ounces of stale French roll in fine crumbs, two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, half aii ounce of ratafias, three ounces of loaf sugar, two ounces of beef marrow, chopped, one ounce of baked flour, half a pint of milk, and three i'resh eggs; mix these ingredients, and beat them briskly for ten minutes, then let it stand in a cool place for an hour; beat again for ten minutes, put it into a mould rubbed well with butter, and tastefully stuck with dried cherries or raisins (stoned); tie a cloth over, put it into plenty of boiling water, and boil fast for two hours and a half. Serve with the following sauce poured over. 472. VICTOKIA’S SAUCE P’OE PUDDINGS. Dissolve three ounces of loaf sugar in a wiueglassful of water; boil till in a syTup ; then add, whisking rapidly, the yolks of three fresh eggs beaten with a gill of cream, and a wineglassful of brandy. Serve at once. Note.—The .sauce should have the appearance of rich smooth cream. 473. CHESTNUT PUDDING. Boil twenty or thirty chestnuts in water tiU they feel tender, then dry them in the oven; take OS’ the shells and skins, and pound the nuts to powder. To six ounces, add four ounces of butter beaten to cream, three ounces of loaf sugar, six fi-esh eggs, and a gill of new milk. Butter a mould, stick it tastefully with either cherries or raisins ; put in the pudding ; cover it with writing paper spread with butter, and steam over fast-boiling water for an hour and a half; or bake in a quick oven a quarter of an hour less. Serve with clarified sugar or with sauce, as directed in the preceding receipt. 474. CHESTNUT PUDDING, ICED. Boil half a pint of new milk with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar and two inches of stick vanilla, till well flavoured; moisten a quarter of a pound of chestnuts in powder (prej-)ared as directed in the foregoing receipt) Avith a gill of new milk; strain the boiling milk over, put the mixture into a sauc(*pan, and stir over the fire till quite smooth; then add the yolks of seven Avell-