sours, BROTHS, ETC. 8 23. HARE SOUP, No. 1. (Two quarts.) The hare must be young and fresh. Cut it into joints, dredge each piece with flour, and fry it to a nice bro^ra colour in butter (half a pound). Cut up, and fry in the same butter one large carrot, two onions, half a head of celery, a piece of garlic as big as a pea, and one large mushroom. Put the whole into a stew- pan with a quart of water, a small bunch of sweet herbs, fotxr sprigs of parsley, a dessertspoonful of salt and a dessertspoonful of moist sugar, a blade of mace, two cloves, a teaspoonful of fresh- made mustard, and half a grain of cayenne. Boil up quickly; skim; then simmer gently for an hour. Take out the hare; cut the meat otF the back and legs into sixteen pieces, three-quarters of an inch square. Put back the bones and trimmings into the stewpan ; add two quarts of stock (No. 1), and the blood of the hare. Boil for two hours, then rub through a fine hair sieve, passing as much of the meat as possible ; nib it through a tammy into the stewpan. Put in the pieces of hare, and simmer ten minutes; add a gill of port wine; simmer ten minutes more, then serve. Note.—Some persons object to blood; in that case, omit using it—but it much improves the soup. 24. HARE SOUP, No. 2. (Economical.) Peel and slice two onions, two carrots, one turnip, a head of celery, and half a clove of garlic. Put tliem into an iron pot with a quarter of a pound of butter and one pound of fresh calf s liver, and fry till nicely browned. Then add sixpennyworth of fresh beef bones, a quarter of a pound of lean bacon, the remains of a cold hare, a small bunch of sweet herbs, fotir sprigs of parsley, a dessertspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of moist sugar, four cloves, .six allspice, ten peppercorns, a laurel leaf, a bay leaf, and three quarts of cold water. Boil and skim frequently for four hours. Knead two ounces of butter with three tablespoonfuls of baked flour and half a grain of cayenne, and stir into the soup. Rub the soup through .a hair sieve Avith a Avooden spoon. Put it again into tlie pot, and boil, stirring frequently for half an hour; add lialf a gill of port Avine, and serve immediately. Note.—The soup should be as smooth and thick as single cream, and of a nice broAvn colour.