•WHITE, OX-CHEEK, AND SHEEP’S-HEAD SOUPS. 13 rice flour, and half a pint of thicjc sweet cream. Cut up the fowl and veal, wash and slice the vegetables, blanch the almonds. Put these all into an iron pot with three pints of water, and simmer (skimming often) gently for two hours. Add the strained juice of the lemon, and half the rind cut olF very thin, a blade of mace, a dessertspoonful of loaf sugar, half a gi’ain of cayenne, two teaspoonftUs of salt, and (a pint at a time) four- pints more water. Boil up and skim between each addition of water. Mix two tablespoonfids of rice-flour with a teacupful of cold water, and stir into the soup till well mixed. Then continue to simmer for two hours and a half Strain the soup through a fine sieve. Boil up again, add the cream, and serve at once. 31. OX-CHEEK SOUP (A LA MODE). Well Avash an ox cheek; put it into an iron pot Avith three onions, tAvo carrots, a head of celery, a turnip, a small bunch of sweet herbs, six sprigs of parsley, a black onion (see receipt), three cloves, ten peppercorns, a tablespoonful of moist sugar, a teaspoonful of mustard, a teaspoonful of curry poAvder, a salt- spoonful of black pepper, a quarter of a clove of garlic, four tea- spoonfuls of salt, quarter of a pound of mild lean bacon, and three quarts of Avater. Boil up quickly, skim, then simmer for three hours. Take out the cheek and cut off six slices of meat, half an inch thick. Put the cheek again into the pot. Mix three tablespoonfuls of flour Avith a dessertspoonful of soy, a tablespoon- ful of A’inegar, tAvo tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and tAA'o tablespoon fills of brandy; stir this into the soup, and continue to simmer for tAvo hours. Cut the slices of meat into inch squares, cut into small balls a large carrot and a turnip, peel tAvelve button onions, fry the pieces of meat and these A’ege- tables in a quarter of a pound of good butter, till nicely broAvned and tender. Skim ofl" ail the fat, strain the soup through a sieA’e. Add the pieces of meat and small vegetables; simmer half an hour, then seive. 32. sheep’s-head SOUP. WellAvash two heads, put them into an iron pot A\uth tAvo onions, one leek, tivo carrots, one turnip, one head of celery, a quarter of a clove of garlic, a dessertspoonful of broAvn sugar, two teaspoonfuls of salt, a mustardspoonful of fresh-made