207 CHEESECAKES. JAM TARTS AND TARTLETS. rind of tbe lemons, the yolks of eight and the whites of four fresh effgs, well beaten; stir rapidly over a gentle fire till the mixture is of the consistency of honey. Put it into a jar, and, when cold, tie it over with thick writing paper, and keep it in a cool place. 583. ORANGE CHEESECAKE MIXTURE. Strain the juice of four Seville oranges and two lemons into two quarts of milk, and put it into a slack oven till a solid curd is formed; when cold, strain olFthe whey. Pound the curd with three-quarters of a pound of fine new honey; add the grated rind of three of the oranges, the beaten yolks of eight eggs, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, six ounces of fresh butter, beaten to cream, and a wineglassful of brandy; beat the mixture till it becomes the consistency of a thick cream ; put it into a jar, tie it down, and keep it in a cool place. 584. ALMOND CHEESECAKE AIIXTURE. Blanch and pound to a soft paste a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, dissolve half a pound of loaf sugar and six ounces of fresh butter with two tablespoonfuls of ratafia; stir till neaidy cold, but not set; put in the almonds, add the beaten yolks of six fresh eggs; stir over a gentle fire till the mixture begins to thicken, then rub through a fine sieve ; put it into a jar, and, when cold, tie it down and keep it in a cool place. 585. CHEESECAKES. Line small tartlet tins with paste made as directed in the follow- ing receipt: fill the centre with either of the foregoing mixtures; smooth over with a knife, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for eighteen minutes. Serve, hot or cold. Currants may be added to the lemon or almond, and candied orange peel to the orange, when prefeiTcd. 58G. JAM TARTS AND TARTLETS. .Make a paste as follows : —Rub a quarter of a pound of freslj butter and a teaspoonful of .sifted loaf sugar into half a pound of Avell-dried flour; moisten with the yolk of an egg beaten with a teacupful of cold water. Knead to a firm paste; roll out, a fjuarter of an inch thick, twice, and each time spread over two