PLAIN COOKING. 260 moving them that they may be bro^vned all over. Dredge the chops Avith a dessertspoonful of dried flour; season with a tea- spoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of black pepper, and half a grain of cayenne. Put the chops and the vegetables into a stewpan, with half a pint of gravy, a teaspoonful of soy, a tablespoonful of mushroom-ketchup, and a teaspoonful of vinegar; simmer as gently as possible lor an hour and three-quarters. Serve very hot 771. STEWED BREAST OE MUTTOX, WITH VEGETABLES. Cut into dice, a quarter of an inch square, two carrots, one turnip, three potatoes, two leeks, one parsnip. Cut the mutton into pieces three inches long and two broad; fry it till brown ; then, in the fat that comes from it, fry the vegetables. Put all into a stewpan, with a tea.spoonful of sugar, a tcaspoonful of salt, the same of black pepper, and three-quarters of a pint of water; let it come quickly to the boil; skim very carefully; add half a pint more water; skim, and then let it simmer gently for tAvo hours. Skim off all the fat; throAV in half a wineglassfiil of vinegar ; simmer ten minutes more, and serve very hot, the meat in the centi-e and the vegetables round. 772. TOAD IX A HOLE. Beat two eggs, stir in four tablespoonfrils of dried flour, add half a saltspoonful of salt and a pint and a quarter of milk ; beat the batter for tAventy minutes. Grease a pie-dish, and pour it in; bury in the batter a piece ol beef or mutton (about a pound and a half)-, bake in a moderate oven for an hour and three-quarters. 773. MUTTOX PUDDING. Cut up into three-inch pieces either slices from the leg, or chops from the neck ; take off nearly all the fat; season a pound and a quarter of mutton A\uth a teaspoonful of salt, and two saltspoonfuls of pepper, llfake a crust Avith three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of dripping, or six ounces of suet. Line a basin Avith the crust a quarter of an inch thick, put in the meat and a tcacupful of cold AA'ater, cover closely A\'ith a lid of paste, tic oA'er a cloth, put it into boiling AA'ater, and boil fast for four hours; loosen round the edge Avith a knife, and tura out carefully. Serve very hot.