BEKI'. 86 When the steak has been simmering an hour, put in the vege- tables, skim constantly, and continue to simmer twenty minutes. Mix a tablespoonful of baked flonr, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, a teaspoonful of soy, a teaspoonful of anchovy-sauce, the strained juice of a lemon, and when quite smooth, stir it into the gravy ; simmer ten minutes longer, add half a gill of port wine, and serve immediately. 242. STEWED EUMP STEAK, WITH OYSTEKS. Have a rump steak three-quarters of an inch thick, to weigh one pound and a quarter, and two dozen of fresh-opened oysters. Put into a stewpan an onion, sliced, half a carrot, sliced, and two ounces of butter; when the butter is dissolved, lay in the steak, and slightly brown both sides; strain the liquor of the oysters, and put in sufficient to reach the surface of the steak, but not to cover it; add a saltspoonful of pepper, a mustardspoonful of firesh- raade mustard, one clove, three allspice, a small blade of mace, four sprigs of parsley, and simmer very gently for an hour and a half; take out the steak, strain the gravy, mix with it a table- spoonful of baked flour, boil up ; put back the steak; take off the beards, and put in the oysters; simmer six minutes, and serve. 243. EUMP STEAK, WITH SHAEP SAUCE. Cut the steak, about one pound and a half, three-quarters of an inch thick; rub a stewpan six times across the bottom with garlic ; put in the steak, with two ounces of butter, and brown it on both sides. Season -with a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, a teaspoonful of grated horseradish, a teaspoonfiil of chopped chives or chalot, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a mustardspoonful of mustard, a teaspoonfiil of moist sugar; add the strained juice of a lemon, and six tablespoonfuls of good gi-avy ; simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Peel and chop quite small two moderate-sized mushrooms and one truffle ; put them into a small saucepan, with half a gill of vinegar; boil quickly ten minutes. Add this to the steak, continue to simmer three-quarters of an hour, then serve. 244. EUMP STEAK PIE. Have about one pound and a half of tender rump steak, cut the third of an inch thick, divide it into two-inch pieces; season