pig’s fet. bath chap. 119 two sprigs of parsley, ^finely chopped, and a tablespconfi.il of fine Lucca oil ; rub this well over the cutlets, and let them remain for tivo hours ; dip each one into the beaten egg, and then into fine crumbs of bread. Dissolve the fat in a bright frying- pan, and fry the cutlets in it till of a pale brown colour on both sides (about twenty minutes) ; drain on a sieve for two minutes before the fire. Place the cutlets neatly on a very hot dish; pour the following sauce over, and send to table immediately :— Peel, clean, and chop fine four moderate-sized mushrooms; season them with half a saltspoonfiil of salt, a grain of cayenne, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, a teaspoonful of tan-agon vinegar, and the juice of half a lemon ; put them into a saucepan, with an ounce of butter, and stir over the fire for ten minutes ; add three tablespoonfuls of stock (No. 1) ; boil up quickly for five minutes; stir in a tablespoonful of Marsala, and serve at once. 313. pig’s fry. A pig’s fry must be quite fi-esh ; one of a small pig will weigh one pound and a half. Wipe it quite dry, and cut each part into pieces about three inches long and tlie third of an inch thick; dredge both .sides with dried flom-, and season with a teaspoonfiil of salt, two saltspoonfuls of pepper, and a teaspoonful of dried sage, in very fine powder ; fi-y in plenty of good lard till of a pale brown colour on both sides (about twenty-five minutes). Serve with two shalots, finely chopped and streivn over, or with sauce made as follows :—Chop fine one large apple and two large onions, and fiy till perfectly tender in a quarter of a pound of butter ; stir in a tablespoonful of baked flour, a grain of cayenne, a teaspoonfiil of mustard, two saltspoonfuls of salt, a tablespoonful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of moist sugar; stir over the fire for five minutes ; add two tablespoonfiils of Marsala, and serve in the centi-e of the dish. 314. BATH CHAP. Soak the chap for twelve hours in cold water; scrape and wasli it; put it into a saucepan, with plenty of cold water, and boil gently for two hours and a half. Take off the skin ; trim off the rough parts, and serve, -with yoimg greens or Brussels sprouts as a garnish.