calf’s brains. Ill corns, two cloves, a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of loaf sugar, five large truflles (whole), and three-quarters of a pound of good butter ; simmer as gently as possible for three hours and three-quarters. Put the liver into a pan or basin; pour over the butter, and let it remain tiU the next day; take off the butter, and dissolve it in an enamelled saucepan. Pound the liver to a paste; add a teaspoonful of dry salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper; two tablespoonfuls of the gravy, and two-thirds of the dissolved butter ; mix well; cut the truffles into pieces the size of a pea, and stir into the paste ; press it into a raised pie-dish; smooth over the top with a knife; pour over the remainder of the butter, and keep the pate in a cool place. 295. CALF’S BRAINS, PRIED. Take off the skin; wash the brains in cold Avater, and cut them into thin slices, then throw them into boiling Avater, tAvo quarts, with a gill of vinegar and a dessert.spoonful of salt; let them remain an hour; wash them again in cold water, and roll them in a cloth to dry. Make a batter Avith two tablespoonfuls of baked flour, tAvo eggs, and the third of a pint of cream; beat Avell with a Avooden spoon for tAventy minutes. Dissolve half a pound of butter in a frying-pan ; dip each piece of brain into the batter, and fry to a pale yellow-broAvn colour over a gentle fire, and serve Avith fried parsley. Wash a bunch of parsley, dip it into boiling fat for three minutes, and dry on a sieve before the fire; place it in the centre of the dish, with the brains round it; serve very hot. Note. — The brains will require about a quarter of an hour to fry, and the receipt is written for two sets. 296. calf’s brains, WITH WHITE SAUCE. Clean and blanch the brains as directed in the preceding receipt, and cut each into four pieces; put them into a stewpan, Avith an onion, sliced, and four sprigs of parsley; add half a pint of veal broth or water, and simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Take out the brains; strain the sauce; knead tAvo ounces of butter with a tablespoonfiil of baked flour ; stir it into the sauce, and boil for five minutes. Put in the brains, with the juice of a