57 VENISON AND MUTTON. 169. HAUNCH OF VENISON. Venison should hang in a dry airy place from ten days to three weeks, according to the Aveather, and be rubbed dry with a clean coarse cloth, night and morning. When about to di-ess it, saAv off the shank and the chine bones, strip off the skin, and trim off all rough pieces. Make a paste as follows:—Eub three pounds of sAveet dripping into four pounds of flour and a quart of bran ; mix it into a stiff paste Avith hot Avater; let it stand one hour to get firm; roll it out half an inch thick, and entirely cover the A-enison Avith it: make it adhere of an equal thickness all over. Hang the venison before a large solid fire for three-quarters of an hour, near; then AvithdraAV it, and let it roast gradually till done, basting it frequently Avith dissolved dripping. AIIoav thirteen minutes to the pound, Aveighed Avith the paste on. Half an hour before serving, split the jiaste Avith a knife, take it off; dredge the haunch slightly Avith baked flour, and baste Avith dis- solved butter till done. Place the venison on a very hot dish, the fat uppermost; pour a little of the gravy, made as follows, into the dish, and send to table immediately. Serve the rest of the gravy and the SAveet sauce in tureens. (French beans, plain boiled, should also be served Avith venison.) To make the graAry, have three pounds of scrag of mutton, half a pound of liver, one kidney, and the venison trimmings, Avell Avashed. Put them into a steAvpan, Avith a chopped shalot, half a carrot, sliced, a teaspoonful of salt, one clove, a bay leaf, six pepper-corns, two ounces of butter, a dessertspoonful of baked flour, and fry till broAvn. Add tAvo tablespoonfuls of rum or brandy, a black onion, and a quart of Avater. Simmer for four hours, skimming frequently. Strain; add a Avineglassful of port Avine, and serve at once. Dissolve in an enamelled saucepan one pound, or more, of red currant, or ashherr^j, jelly, and serve in a tureen. 170. NECK OF VENISON. FolloAv the preceding receipt exactly, except in time ; eleven minutes to the pound Avill be sulRcient for a neck.