154 GAME. spoonful of salt, tho same of loaf sugar, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, the grated peel of a quarter of a lemon, one shalot, finely chopped; add a dessertspoonful of rum or brandy, and, when soaked into the bread, two ounces of dissolved butter; put the stuffing into the body of the leveret, sew it up with a needle and thread. Peel and slice two shalots, one small carrot, and three mushrooms; put them into a ste^vpan with a slice of mild bacon ; lay the leveret in, back uppermost; add half a pint of stock (No. 1) or gi'avy, a gill of xMarsala, and two ounces of butter over the back; simmer very gently for an hour and three-quarters; baste fi-equently with the gravy; take out the leveret; rub the gravy and vegetables through a fine sieve, mix a dessertspoonful of baked flour into*it, put it back into the stewpan with the leveret, and simmer twenty minutes more; then serve, "with currant jelly on a plate. 394. EOAST LEVERET. Leverets may be stuffed or not, either is equally correct. K stuffed, prepare the following :—Chop two ounces of veal-suet, and enough parsley to fill a teaspoon; mix it with an oimce of fine crumbs of bread, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, half a saltspoonful of salt, a quarter of a saltspoonful of Avhite pepper, the peel of a quarter of a lemon, grated, a dessertspoonful of rum, and one fresh egg; beat well, and put it into the body of the leveret; sew it up. Spread a sheet of paper tliickly with butter (a quarter of a pound), secm-e it round the leveret, and roast before a very brisk fire for three-quarters of an hour; baste frequently with fresh lard (a quarter of a pound); ten minutes before serving, remove the paper, dredge lightly with baked flour, and baste "with fresh butter. Serve very hot, with the following gravy :—Boil three-quarters of a pint of stock (No. 1) for ten minutes; stir in an ounce of butter, kneaded with a tablespoonful of baked flour ; boil fast ten minutes more ; add a wineglassful of port wine; serve a little in the dish, and die rest in a tureen ; send cm-rant jelly to table also. Note.—Every receipt for ‘second dressing’ given for hare may be fol- lowed for leveret.