rOCLTRY. 136 352. RISSOLES OF FOWL. (Second dressing.) Cut up about half a pound of cold fowl; put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, Avith a piece of garlic the size of a pea, an inch of thin lemon peel, an inch of laurel leaf, and a pint of stock or water ; boil fast till reduced to a gill of strong gravy, then strain. Chop the foAvl and two ounces of ham or tongue till quite fine ; season with a saltspoonful of white pepper, a saltspoonful of chopped parsley, half a saltspoonful of salt, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, and a dessertspoonful of baked Hour ; stir in sufficient gravy to moisten the meat; put it into a basin, and let it stand three hours to become firm. Make the meat up into six equal sized balls; dredge them lightly with dry Hour; dip them into beaten egg, then into dried crumbs {see receipt) ; do this a second time, then fry in boiling lard or clari- fied dripping (one pound) till of a pale yelloAv-brotvn colour (about eight minutes). Serve Avith a bunch of fried parsley in the centre. Lay the parsley in salt and A\^ater for an hour or more ; drain; then dip it tAvice into the boiling fat, after the rissoles are done; put it before the fire on a sieve for two minutes. Note.—A stewpan is better than a frying-pan for all things requiring to be boiled in fat, and Arhere a proper pan is not possessed. 353. CROQUETS OF FOWL. (Second dressing.) Rub tAvo ounces of fresh butter into six ounces of dried flour; beat the yolks of tAVo fresh eggs Avith foiu: tablespoonfuls of cold A\mter, and stir into the flour till in a stiff paste ; knead till quite .smooth ; roll it out tAvice ; then let it stand in a cool place for five or six hours; cut up about half a pound of cold foAvl (roast or boiled) free from skin ; put the bones and trimmings into a sauce- pan, Avith a piece of garlic the size of a pea and half a pint of Avater, and steAV for graA'y; pound the foAvl to paste; add tAvo ounces of either ham, hung beef, or tongue, pounded ; season with the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, half a saltspoonful of Avhite pepper, the grated rind of the quarter of a lemon, half a saltspoon- ful of flour of mustard, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt; add sufficient gravy to moisten. Continue to pound till all the ingredients are avoII mixed; roll out the paste the eighth ol an inch