MUTTON. 66 boiling water, and simmer till tender (about twenty minutes); stir frequently. Drain on a sieve, in the oven, for three or four minutes, and separate the grains by stirring with a fork. 191. MUTTON PIE. Cut about one pound and a half of the lean part of the best end of the neck or loin of mutton, divide it into inch and a half square pieces, season with one shalot, finely chopped, two salt- spoonfuls of dry salt, one saltspoonfi.il and a half of white pepper, and half a saltspoonful of loaf-sugar. Grease the edge of a ten-inch pie-dish ; put in the mutton, vdth three-quarters of a gill of cold water or gravy made with the bones; then make a paste as follows: —Moisten half a pound of dried flour with half a gill of water and the juice of half a lemon, and knead to a paste; lay it flat on the slab ; put in the centre sis ounces of good butter, roll out four times, let it stand in a cool place for two hours; roU out a fifth part, the sixth of an inch thick, line the edge of the dish; roU out the remainder to the size of the dish, moisten the edge with water, lay on the paste, press it round with the thumb to make it adhere, notch it at inch distances, make a hole in the centre. Ornament to fancy, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. Serve very hot. 192. MUTTON PUDDING. Make a crust with six ounces of beef-suet, finely chopped, and seven ounces of flour. Grease a pint pudding-basin, roU out the paste a quarter of an inch thick, put it into the basin ; press out the folds, so that the crust is of equal thickness. Lay in the mutton, cut and seasoned as directed in the preceding receipt. Add the gravy made fi-om the bones, cover over with a circular piece of paste; make it adhere by pressing it down ; tie a cloth over, put it into boiUng water, and boU for three hours and three- quarters. Turn out carefully, and serve very hot. 193. FEIED sheep’s BEAINS, TTITII ATHITE SAUCE. Tree the brains from skin and fibres ; lay them in hot water, with a teaspoonful of vinegai* in it, for half an hour ; well -wash them in cold water, and dry them in a cloth. Dip the brains in