LAVENDER ^YATEB. SKIN POWDER. POT-PODRUI. 317 973. CASTOR OIL CREAM FOR THE HAIR. Put half a pound of fresh lard into a basin, and pour a quart of boiling water over it; stir it, that it may be well melted. When cold, take it olF the water, squeeze it dry, and beat it witli a wooden fork till in a soft cream; then add, by degi-ees, an ounce and a half of fresh castor oil and twenty-five drops of essential oil of bergamot, or any other perfume preferred. Beat it till quite like a thick cream. Put it into covered toilet pots. 974. LAVENDER WATER. Two quarts of spirit of wine, two ounces of oil of lavender, two ounces of essence of bergamot, two ounces of essence of musk, half an ounce of essence of ambergris, half an ounce of orris root in two pieces, six drops of oil of cinnamon, thirty drops of oil of nutmeg, ten drops of otto of roses, ten drops of oil of orange flowers, and a pint of distilled water; put these ingredients into a large glass bottle, cork it tightly, and let it remain for three months. Shake it frequently during that time. Filter it through blotting-paper, put it into bottles, and cork it closely. The longer it is kept the better it becomes. 975. SKIN POWDER. Half a pound of the best starch, finely pounded, one ounce of camphor, pounded; add, while pounding, two drachms of spirit of wine, two drachms of oxide of zinc, and eight drops of otto of roses. Mix well together. 97G. POT-POURRI, Half a sack of ro.se leaves, a quart of lavender, two ounces of sweet marjoram, and two ounces of lemon thyme ; spread these out on a table or a floor, and turn them every day, till they are quite dry, when they will have shrunk to half the quantity. When drj', put them into ti jar (or jar.s), and mix with them the following ingredients:—Two grains of mu.sk, one ounce of gum benzoin, one drachm of oil of cassia, one drachm of oil of cloves, two drachms of oil of lavender, one drachm of oil of cinntunon, a quarter of an ounce of bergamot, ten drops of oil of orange flowers, three ounces of oivis root, in fine powder, three-quarters