9 MTJLLIGATAWNET AND GIBLET SOUPS. 25. MULLIGATAWNEY SOUP. AN INDIAN KECEIPT. (Two quarts.) Koast a fine yonng fowl before a quick fire for half an hour, and baste it with six ounces of good butter ; put it aside till cold. Peel and slice one large apple, three large onions, a quarter of a clove of garlic, and the heart of one lettuce ; fry them till tender, but very slightly coloured, in the butter the fowl was basted with. Cut the white meat off the fowl into neat pieces an inch square; break the bones, and put them into a steivpan ivith the trimming.?, the vegetables, two ounces of cocoa-nut, a dessertspoonful of tamarinds, two tablespoontuls of curry powder, two tablespoonfuls of flower, a teaspoonful of salt, four leaves of mint, a teaspoonfiil of loaf sugar, and a quart of water. Boil for an hour and a half; then strain through a fine sieve. Add to this a qiiart and half a pint of stock (No. 2), the pieces of fowl, and simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour. Stir in the strained juice of a large lemon and a gill of fresh cream, and serve immediately, with a dish of plain boiled rice and cut lemons on a plate. Wash three-quarters of a pound of the best rice, put it into three pints of cold water, with a saltspoonful of salt, and boil slowly, stirring trequently, for twenty-five minutes. Drain on a sieve in the oven, and stir with a wooden fork to divide the grains. 26. GIBLET SOUP. (Two quarts.) Have a set of young goose giblets nicely cleaned and cut into pieces two inches long. Put them into a stewpan with a pint and a half of cold water, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, half a gi-ain of cayenne, the eight part of a nutmeg grated, a bay leaf and a laurel leaf. Boil up slowly; skim, then simmer for one hour. Take out the giblets, strain the liquor, and skim oil’ every particle of fat. Add the liquor and the giblets to two quarts of stock (No. 1); simmer gently for about an hour and a half. Mix three tablespoonfuls of baked flour with half a gill of cold stock, a teaspoonful of soy, and a dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup. .Stir this into the soup, and boil for twelve minutes; add a small winegla.s.sft;l of Marsala or sherry, and serve at once.