17 ONION AND PEAS SOUPS. MUTTON BROTH. 41. ONIOX SOUP, WHITE. Peel and slice six large onions and four large potatoes; put them into a stewpan with two quarts of water, a bay leaf, a laui-el leaf, a tablespoonful of loaf sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonfiil of wdiite pepper, and the crumb of a French roll. Boil fast for two hours ; then rub the soup through a fine sieve. Put it again into the stewpan ; boil up. Beat the yolks of three fresh eggs, Avith tAvo tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and stir in for two minutes. Add half a pint of cream, and serve at once. 42. OXIOX SOUP, BROWlSU FolloAV the preceding receipt, using stock (No. 1) instead of Avater, and substituting a Avineglassful of Avhite Avine for the eggs and cream. Stir in the cheese just before serving. 43. PEAS SOUP. Soak a pint of split peas for tAvo hours, Avash them, and take out aU that are black; put them into a saucepan Avith a quart of Avater, and let them simmer by the side of the fire till quite soft. Boil sixpennyAvorth of fresh beef bones in tAvo quarts of Avater, AAnth three onions, tAvo carrots, a head of celeiy, one turnip, eight peppercorns, a saltspoonfiil of dried mint, a tablespoonful of moist sugar, and a saltspoonfiil of salt. When the bones are bare, strain the liquor and put in the peas. Boil and skim till the peas are quite mixed Avith the soup. Stir in three ounces of butter kneaded Avith two tablespoonfuls of baked flour, a tea- .spoonful of salt, a grain of cayenne, a grain of Avhite pepper, a saltspoonful of flour of mustard. Boil tAventy minutes; then rub the soup through a tammy sieve, and serve very hot. Cut three slices of bread into half-inch pieces and fry to a pale broAvn colour in tAvo ounces of good butter. Rub some dry mint to poAvdcr and sift it on to a plate. Serve these Avith the soup. 44. 3IUTTON BROTH. (One quart.) Cut into small pieces three pounds of quite fresh .scrag of mut- ton ; put it into a saucepan Avith two onions, two turnips, half a head of celery, all sliced, a sprig of thyme, a .sprig of marjo- c