PINE-APPLE PUDDING, BKANDT BREAD PUDDING. 175 tinue to -whisk till smooth; add quickly three-quarters of a gill of brandy. Serve immediately. 467. PINE-APPLE PUDDING. Eub six ounces of the crumb of a stale pound-cake to powder; cut six ounces of preserved pine-apple into quarter-inch pieces; beat six fresh eggs ; mix these together ; add an ounce of sifted loaf sugar, half a gill of new milk, and half a gOl of cream ; beat well for fifteen minutes ; butter a mould ; put in the mixture ; tie it over with -writing paper spread with butter, and steam over yhst-boiling water for an hour and a half. Tui-n out carefully, and serve, with the following sauce in the dish. 468. PINE-APPLE SAUCE. Put into a small saucepan four tablespoonfuls of pine-apple syrup, two tablespoonfids of apple jelly, a teaspoonful of sifted sugar, and a*wineglassful of cold water. Moisten a teaspoonful of arro-wroot Avith a httle cold Avater; mix it with the syrup, Avhen boiling hot; stir over the fire for two minutes; add a tablespoonful of rum, and serve. 469. BEANDY BEEAD PUDDING. Cut a quarter of a pound of the crumb of a stale French loaf into thin slices; place them one on the other, and pour ove]- half a giU of good brandy. Stone six ounces of table raisins, chop two ounces of candied orange peel, boil six ounces of loaf sugar in half a pint of milk, and add to six well-beaten eggs, while warm, but not hot; let it get cold. Butter a pint and a half basin, lay in the bread, custard, and fruit in layers till quite full; let it stand a quarter of an hom: to soak ; tie over buttered Avriting paper, and steam over fa.st-boiling Avater for an hour and three-quarters. Turn out carefully, and serve, with the foUoAving sauce poured over. 470. CLAEIFIED SUGAE. Dissolve three ounces of loaf sugar in a teacupful of Avater, and boil tin it becomes a bright syrup ; skim off the froth that rises ; let it get nearly cold ; then add two tablespoonfuls of brandy and twenty drops of essence of vanilla or any other flavouring.