a HIGGINBOTHAM AND CO.’S List of Indian IPiltyiicatioiis. t •33jj sprttal «ppflintihrnt to |i?is Bogn! &isljiuss tiji ifriiue of £®alts, anti PtiblisjKVS to tljr fflaUrns ©nib'crgitgr Gash Prices include Postage. A Guide-to the City of Madras and its Suburbs, 2nd ed., with a Plan of the Town, Rs. 2-2—without the Plan ••• Asiatic Journal (Selections from the) Vols. 1—28, first senes, Jan. 1816 to Deer. 1829, in 1 vol., 1011 pp., royal 6vo Agriculture (Modern) and What Modern Agriculture can do for the Indian Farmer, by W. R. Robertson, Esq... Ainslie’s Materia Indica, or some account of those articles which are employed by the Hindoos and other Eastern Na- tions in their Medicine, Arts and Agriculture, 2nd ed., by J. J Wood, late-Sub-Assistant Surgeon: Part I, 104 pages ••• An'do-lndian Race—(TheFortunes of the)consideredlletrospecr tfvely and Prospectively, by one of Fifty Fears Knowledge and Experience, 2nd edition, enlarged, by T. G. Clarke ...' Appaswamy Pillay’s (C.) Anglo-Tamil Manual or Phrase Look, based on the plan of “ Forbes’ .Hindustani Manual. ——— Manual of Ibdian Terms used in the Revenue, Judi- cial and the Department Public Works ... A Chapter on Burmali Ponies, by “ Vagrant - • •• Apostolic Succession : (Exclusive Claims to) brought to the test of Holy Scripture, the Ancient Fathers, the Protestant Reformers and other Writers of Authority ••• Building (Notes on) and Roadmaking with rules for estims ^dnther. ’ plates.. .itries of ith maps yeor$” ... Timber of Eastern ft IP' 22101441953Med K9627 LIST OF INDIAN PUBLICATIONS. >1: H. H.) The Ferns of Southprnludia, being . plates of the Ferns of the Madras Presidency. ° quarto size, 2nd ed.. author of “ lcon.es 4 -3 4 ; 2irtJ e(h ‘1 12 JOUinn Q -A ICAO, 1UIU aaoi uaotuuo x lailto t Conquest’s (Dr.) Outlines of Midwifery in Tamil and English ... in Telugu.and English... I in Canarese and,English ij ,r,iib,u..uo jj.uiguajc ... < •gf. \ > .v. diutney Lyrics,, a collection of Comic pieces in verse*oi»jh subjects, small 4to. ; ' ... Civil Eng. College. Papers, ^VNp.'TCbiiversational Sentences, Tamil and No. II, Anglo-Telugu Grammar. ,;IV. Anglo-Tamil Primer ... .'^.' Hydraulics', 3rd ed. VJJ,- Atijjlp-^Telugu Primer No. VIII, Surveying, with plates. ... No. IX, Schou'ry’s Text Book of Estimating, 2nd ed., revised with additional tables, 32 plates. ... ... 8 Drury’s Useful Plants of India, with notices of their tchief value m Commerce, Medicine and the Arts, 2nd ed. 12 1? This work is indispensable not only to the student of EdtKnv but to r6tla,linS in India, and the capitalist who is desirous to _uev6 ope the resources of the country. In most cases the,native names V'e given, and the economic uses are pointed out \ • >,-• J * • * ... ... 1 3 3 2 4 12 6 4 4 1 12 I ( r ^ • -' , / V V-. vt VMU1 J. Xi. continent of India, 3 vols., royal 8vo., cloth ■ ..... . Ajiecggsary adjunct to the “ leones” by Dr. Wight wher^'t of most „of the plants described here will be found. ’ D Dubois on the People of India, 3rd ed./by Dr. G. Dunca,‘\s (G.) Gcqgrapliy of India, 8th ed. ’ * J, V> ess: Eihots-CW.) Flora Andhrica, or Plants riiet with in.the North- ern Circars, Part 1. 194 ;pages ... . ... ' Evans (F. S.) Plane Trigonometry. > ..* f ' * ^*P boulkes (Rev. Thos.) The Legends of the 'Shinne of Harihari in the Province of Mysore, translated from the Sanskrit’ . nicely bound in cloth extra • ... ' ... IBenealogie der Malabarishen Gotter, by ZiegenbaP- edited bv Dr. \\ ..Germann, German text ... ..f %? . GCl 0y IA fl n ifrnn oln loci "I A 1 • l i _ *** 0 0 14 13 12 10 8 6 8 tl ' c t wun supplement, 1 voi., »vo., 960 ua^es l The^Supple„,t;llt separately, 160 pages ... ’ ' ^ ^ as writing'^classical tlicBonarv 6 °f tll° great lexicographer so far- enough to earn ^orhimself^liJ TC0?cenied- He Iras done Indian Dr, ^nthr~Madral%^Z^. * ^ LemP«iOre and theCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS.CULINARY JOTTIRDS FOIv MADRAS. p yREATISE IN JHIRTY j^HAPTERS . ON REFORMED COOKERY FOE ANGLO-INDIAN EXILES, BASED UPON MODERN ENGLISH, & CONTINENTAL PRINCIPLES, WITH TWE NTY-FIVE Ivl E 3XT XT £3 FOR LITTLE DINNERS WORKED OUT IN DETAIL, BY “ Y V E R N.” MADRAS: HIGGINBOTHAM AND CO. 33? special appointment to E. mje Prince of Scales anb Publishers to tfjc Patras Slnibersitp. 1878.*iru c\ 'u, ^ MADRAS: PRINTED BY HIGGINBOTHAM AND CO,, 165, MOUNT ROAD. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. ®TAUTHOR’S PREFACE. ♦ HEN I first began to write about Cookery I flattered myself tbat I bad undertaken a very easy, and pleasant task. I thought that my jottings would be composed currents calamo, and that I should be able to carry out my project with satis- faction and success. But at the hour of launching my frail shallop from the shore, I am compassed about with grave doubts concerning its seaworthi- ness. Alas ! :— “ My conscience hath a thousand several tongues, And every tongue brings in a several tale, And every tale condemns me for” a very Icarus. Lo ! the wings of my ambition have melted, and I have fallen into the sea of blighted hope. I am only conscious of failure. I undertook much, what have I performed? Whilst, however, I frankly acknowledge my many shortcomings, I derive some consolation in trying to believe that, though I have left undone much that I ought to have done, there .Y1 author’s preface. may nevertheless be a few things recorded in the pages of my book which will be found useful. If this hope be realised, and if the Ladies of Madras— to whom, in all humility, I dedicate the first fruits of my labours—discover here and there a word of assistance when perplexed about their daily orders, I shall be bountifully rewarded, and the winter of my discontent will indeed be made glorious summer. I have to tender my acknowledgments to the past and present Proprietors of the Madras Athen- aeum and Daily News for the permission they have kindly given me to republish my culinary articles which appeared originally in that journal; I have to express my gratitude for the hints I have received from friendly savants in the science of cookery; and to own that I have obtained the most valuable aid from the writings of Jules Gouffe, and the “ G.C. ’ Wyvern. Madras, 1st November 1878.CONTENTS. TP-A-IEBT I. Chapters. I.—Introductory II.—The Menu —Concerning the Cook and his management IV.—About certain kitchen requisites V.—In the Store-room ... VI.—On Soup-making... VII.—Soup-making, continued VIII.— Do., concluded IX.—Regarding our Fish... X.—Hints about Entrees XI.—Entrees, continued ... XII*— Do., concluded XIII. —About Sauces in general XIV. —Sauces, continued XV.— Do., concluded XVI.—Roast and boiled XVII. Do., continued... XVIII. Do., concluded • XIX.—Our Vegetables XX.—Vegetables, continued XXI.- Do., do. XXII. Do., concluded ... XXIII.—Rechauffes XXIV.—The Savoury Omelette... XXV.—Our Luncheons XXVI.—Fritters ... XXVII.—Salads XXVIII.—Hors d’ceuvres XXIX. Eggs, Maccaroni, and Cheese XXX.—Camp Cookery Page. 1 5 8 13 19 24 32 37 43 49 54 59 64 70 75 81 86 91 97 103 109 116 124 132 139 148 155 162 169 180CONTENTS. vm XI. Twenty-five Menus worked out in detail. Menu I.—For a party op eight XX.—For a dinner op pour HI.—For a party op eight IV.— Do. do. V.— Do. do. VI— Do. do. VII.— Do. do. VIII.—For a party op six ... IX.— Do. do. X.— Do. do. XI.— Do. do. XII.—For a dinner op four friends XIII.— Do. do. XIV.— Do. do. XV.— Do. do. XVI.— Do. do. XVII.—For a little home dinner xviii.— Do. do. XIX.— Do. do. XX.— Do. do. XXL— Do. do. XXII.— Do. do. XXIII.— Do. do. XXIV.— Do. do. XXV.— Do. do. To PRESERVE MEAT BY SULPHUR FUMIGATION Page. , 195 , 199 . 203 . 207 . 211 . 215 . 220 . 224 . 228 . 231 .. 235 .. 238 ,. 242 .. 246 .. 249 .. 253 .. 257 .. 259 .. 261 .. 264 .. 267 .. 270 .. 273 ... 276 .. 278 280CHAPTER I. Introductory. “ The subject of Cookery is worthy of study, and one to which English people would do well to give their attention. If that man is a benefactor to his race who makes two blades of grass grow where only one did before, the art must be worth cultivating that enables a person to make one pound of meat go as far, by proper cooking, as two by neglect and inattention.”—Dr. Lankester’s “ Good Food.” HILST reform slow, yet sure, has of late years been creeping into our style of living in India, the want of a hand-book on culinary science—locally con- sidered—of a more modern description than that time- honoured and, in its day, excellent work “Indian Domestic Cookery” must have been long felt by the busy housewife of Madras. Our dinners of to-day would indeed astonish our Ancdo- Indian forefathers. With a taste for light wines, and a^far more moderate indulgence in stimulating drinks, has been germinated a desire for delicate and artistic cookery. The molten curries and florid oriental compositions of the olden time—so fearfully and wonderfully made—have been gradually banished from our dinner tables; for although a well-considered curry, or mulligatani,—capital things in their way,—are still very frequently given at breakfast orCULIJVJillY JOZQpTGB FOJ? J£Jk<£%£B. 2 at luncheon, they no longer occupy a position in the dinner menu of establishments conducted according to the new regime. A little treatise on cookery, then, showing the reader how to accomplish successfully, with the average means at his disposal in this country, some of the many tasty dishes spoken of in the modern English and continental books upon the subject, will, I am sanguine enough to hope, be received with kindly toleration, it not with cordiality, by those who consider it worth while to be interested in matters culinary. Thirsting for some instruction of this kind, I remember buying, some three ears ago, a little book which had just then been published at Madras, and which promised by its title to provide the thing needful. Alas! how sorely dis- appointed was I with my purchase, for the work had as- suredly been written for the Anglo-Indian in England lather than for the Englishman in India. There were fifteen pages devoted to receipts for “curries,” “ pillaw,” and “ ketchree, ■whilst four were given for “ sambal,” and four for fresh “ chutneys.” There were also directions recorded for the concoction of “ cocoanut oil,” “pish pash,” “ conjee water, “ghee,” “buffado,” “chepatties,” “ding dong,” “ country captain,” “ ramakin toast,” and “ washerman’s pie !” As lono- as the authoress confined her instructions to dishes purely oriental, and to compositions requiring peculiar Indian condiments, her information was, I dare say, to those who needed it, somewhat useful; but surely it must have been a spirit of gentle banter that prompted her to describe in all the stem reality of type “ a mutton cut et a? , m India,” “a spiced cutlet in paper,” “ brain cutlets, French meat balls,” and (0 ! horror) “ crumb chops ! Reading these receipts with a too lively recollection of the fabrications themselves, I concluded that the intention of the writer had been to bring before the retired Anglo-Indian sundry pain- ful visions of the past:—of days of jolting travel and thIJT^OQUG^OItY S dishes that were presented to him at the “public bungalow;” or ot quondam visits at the Presidency and a happy day at a Madras hotel! I shudder still when I remember the desecration suggested in this treatise of “ passing a sole through water in° which turmeric powder had been mixed/’ of degrading the kindly salmon to the level of “ tamarind fish,” and of even ‘ un- spratting’ the toothsome sprat in order to make it taste like the nethelee fish of India! ’ As is often the case in cookery books, several dishes were introduced called by unintelligible names.^ “Rumbled eggs,” we all know, for instance, to be Kamasamy s barbarous term for “ buttered eggs,” and “ rama- kin toast” for “ Welsh rarebit,”—not, if you please, to be for one moment confounded with the veritable " ramakin” or dainty fondue of cheese en caisse. WeU, with the exception of dishes of purely native origin 11 or,no instruction worth following was given to the Madras housewife, whilst there was much dangerous counsel proffered which should be most carefully avoided. The most reprehensible customs were, in point of fact. laid down over and over again as precepts for imitation, con- cerning which I will say nothing now, for I propose to e\ote a separate chapter to the important subject of the cookroom, and the besetting sins of our native cooks. bJnhefbn0k n°uWhiCv 1 refei; has not> as far as 1 am aware, si pfr.wlW6d he-re any fresh work, and from the brief wdh tyia I"6 8,lven °J; fhiink, my readers will agree with me when 1 say that at any rate its pages scarcely containeil the sort of instruction we look for- now-a-days3^ terin* ??°n nJ7self> therefore, the task of humbly minis- f S aSte °f the hour> 1 am encouraged ground fl tl0n that 1 am’ so to sPeak» a breaker of fresh L^°ie t;iryc0otomy scheme in a series °f iettei-s w^h cook loom experiences, the judicious commencinrr OA OULI^My JOVXIJTQ-8 F0% JdJIQI&B. ssm— •! * t *?«•■;■ rl»; iss discussed soups, fish, resources 0/ M worked out m/j^^ell that to several r^complisfied Briljat Sav^ - Madras can impart nothing new On the ^ontmry, ^ q rush in become me to sit at thei talented ooteric where they have hesitated to ^ ^ them to be merciful I appeal for forbearance. I entreat them ^ in inasmuch as they aie ve y ° Ttamasamv that I am their presence I pardon.” No, I address “ a ver,y ^^L^he many who yearn to follow reform, but my jottings to the ma y y j -no. so • who to quote who cannot discover t e me>. friend°“like nice things the words of a very hospitable men , ^ _ better than nasty things, ye yiew wjth daily sorrow trate the secret of success , an seems good to the lamentable parody o infnprn I shall treat of cosy o^c°Lt e"ie alX be to stady economy in con- junction with the system I advocate. Wyvern.CHAPTER II. The Menu. LL who have studied the reformed system of dinner- giving will, I think, agree with me -when I say that the menu of a dinner anywhere, but in India especially, should be reduced to the smallest compass possi- ble. An hour at the outside should suffice for the discus- sion of the daintiest of bills of fare, so to ensure this we should strike out of it all unnecessary encumbrances. Let the little card be clothed in the white garb of simplicity and completeness, and I am prepared to declare that all our lady guests, and a majority of the men we entertain will rejoice at the result. A cosy dinner to be perfect should be, it seems to me, a highly finished cabinet picture with every atom of detail carefully worked out, rather than a large pretentious canvas with any amount ol color expended in order to produce a satisfactory impression. Every line of the little menu should therefore be written with a loving hand, and both lights and shadows should be considered, for our guests must e en partake of each dish we offer them. Soup, fish, two well contrasted entries served separ- ately; one joint only; game, and a dressed vegetable; one entremet suer6; an iced pudding, cheese with hors cVoeuvres and dessert; will be found, if thoughtfully composed, amplecuLijvjnir joo&waa foi? fare for even the most hypercritical gourmand we could bid to our table. In the studied completeness of such a dinner as this will repose its chief attraction :—in good wine, no lack of ice, the brightest plate, snowy linen, well toned light, and tasteful adornment of the table; with all minutse remembered—from des petits pains in the deftly folded napkins, to the artistic salad which in all modern menus is not expressed yet, like salt, understood to be present. You cannot make your dinner too simple in detail, and the fewer servants you employ to carry it out the better. How distressing it is to see a herd ot attendants, mobbing each other like a scared flock of sheep, at a time when everythin* should be as orderly, and quiet as possible. To ensure calm service, pare down the number of your dishes to the fewest possible, and for eight guests never aliow more than four servants, besides your butler, to attend the table. If these remarks be correct, as far as a small dinner of ei*ht is concerned, how much more do they apply to large banquets * I remember two official entertainments during the season of 1875-76, especially one of them which was given in honor of the departing Commander-in-Chief, where the success of the dinner was marred by the very indifferent service. The indirect cause of this was an over-crowded menu. With a great many guests it is, of course, necessary to call in a quantity of waiters who have never worked together before, and an undisciplined crowd of native servants is thus assembled that will ruin the best dinner that ever was cooked, unless you reduce the work they have to peitoi to the best of your ability. At such dinners as these I would never give more than two really good entrees, served separately, and without any ffishes of vegetables accompanying them; then a whiteTHE J\tEJTU. 7 vegetable with potatoes for the turkey, and French beans with potatoes for the saddle : nothing more. You sometimes see turnips, cabbage, cauliflower, French beans, and potatoes (occupying five waiters) goinc round together. For the Anglo-Saxon delights in quantity, and h.s soul loveth display exceedingly. Masses of diet like this may be necessary at a yeomanry festival, or after an Agucultural Show at the county town; but educated people who have travelled, and who have had opportunities of forming refined notions of human nature in general, and wUlTf ™ Parfcl°ular> fight surely to be better satisfied with a little really well considered, than with abundance inartistic in its arrangement, and indifferent]v servedIII- Concerning the Cook and his Management Sb! FTER some years of observation I ha^ c0^e conclusion that if you want to put 1 tt dinners upon = bVyou IKSgJl dinners upon your rauie, but you perpared to take an in me ^UnUnle88 amicable rela- must make a fm6nd o y I mistress or master, «». exist bet= the These Ml ulousluid1 and “e annoying ,aihs.es, y^nnnd will never know what wpose means Jar. utterly weaned with the darly stru o an apparently ;t may riease him to call you. Ido not allude to people, happy to ^“5et£ butler absolutely to the mani- a fairly good menu, and ab e o [ a few estimable men pulation thereof. There aie, > ^ acquainted of that kind to be found-.n po nt of tart^ Jnj even with three or four—but alas . Y diplomatic supervision, the cleverest of them requires alittto diploma P ^ or he will drift into a groove of dinneis, ana JCOJTCEItfUJIG HHE COOK cy HIS MJ0J-GEJ'/LEJim. 9 repetitions. Are not the accounts, also, of the erudite mditre d’hStel full often prone to cause,—even at the pretty writing table of the cosy boudoir,— great searchings of heart ? In other words, must you not pay for your luxury, and even murmur not in the presence of the artist who spares you so much trouble ? Those who are not gifted with patience, those who ’are not physically strong, those who have important calls upon their time away from home, and, of course, those who do not feel capable of directing culinary operations, cannot do better than entrust the management of their kitchens to alien heads, but all who are equal to the task should take the helm in their own hands, remembering that ancient canon,—“ if you want a thing well done, do it yourself.” I place those who have not patience first on the list of persons whom I deem incapable of managing their cooks. I do so advisedly, for of all failings inimical to the success- ful direction of a native servant a hasty temper is the most fatal. The moment you betray irritation and hastiness in your manner towards Ramasamy, he ceases to follow you : his brain becomes busy in the consultation of his personal safety, and not in the consideration of the plat you are endeavouring to discuss with him. In this matter I, of course, address my readers of the sterner sex : ladies, I know, are never angry, and even when a little put out, do they not contrive to veil their feelings with a sweet subtlety which men can envy yet never hope to acquire? Once upon a. time I knew very intimately the Mess Pre- sident of a Regiment (not yet forgotten I fancy at Bangalore) who possessed to an eminent degree the qualities necessary for his difficult position. He was an acknowledged connois- seur in wines, excelled in the composition of a menu, and lejoiced in a bountiful development of the bump of manage- ment. Long association, however, with one of the best Mels- men a Regiment ever had in England had spoilt my friend for10 CULTfTJlIlY JOYYIJIGS FOIl the up-hill task of managing Ramasamy. The consequence was that the ordering of a dinner with him was generally productive of a very stormy morning. I remember one spe- cial day hearing my friend’s voice raised to its highest pitch ; presently the door of the little room he occupied as an office flew open, and out rushed the cook followed by his preceptor violet in the face with wrath. The unhappy menial, in a state of hopeless mental aberration, had taken down that he was to boil the Pate de foie gras, and ice the asparagus ! I was called in as interpreter and peace- maker, and man)^ a morning after that did I convey my friend’s orders to the mess cook. I was obliged, however, to demand an empty room, for even during my interpretations the President’s patience would evaporate, and the walls would ring with language that was fashionable when George the Third was King. There are two ways of imparting the details of a menu to your native cook :—one through the medium of your butler, the other by conversation with the man himself. For many reasons I advocate the latter plan. Some cooks do not care for the butler’s interference, and in many estab- lishments the cook and butler do not pull. Butlers again are prone to conceit, and often pretend to understand what you want done, rather than confess their ignorance. One remembers the same failing in one’s munshi who never admitted himself puzzled by the most intricate passage in English that you could place before him. So I prefer to get° the cook alone, and talk to him very gently in his own patois. I encourage him by a bland demeanour, and if obliged to speak retrospectively of a failure, I strive to do so with a smile. You will soon get round Ramasamy when he finds that you never indulge in “ very bad ’busing:” he then gains confidence in you and learns rapidly. Between ourselves too, surely an artist who can actually compose a “ Vol au vent a la financier e,„ a kia- mousky aux lvditres,” or a “ supreme de volatile, deserves some consideration at our hands. Thq patois is easily acquired and you will soon find yourself interpreting theCONCETHflJVG THE COOK HIS GEJtfEJCd. 11 cherished mysteries of Francatelli or Gouffe in the pigeon English of Madras with marvellous fluency. You °will even talk of “putting that troople,” “mashing bones all/’ “minching,” "ehimmering,” &c., &c., without a blush. There can be no doubt that in Ramasamy of Madras we possess admirable materials out of which to form a good cook. The work comes to him, as it were, of its own accord. But we should take heed lest he grow up at random, clino-- w* a/ec(/onately to the ancient barbarisms of his forefathers. W e should watch for his besetting sins, and root them out whenever they manifest themselves. Mint as a^ flavouring agent save in certain wine “cups ” and in bona fide mint sauce, is one of the banes of the cookroom; its use, and that of any parsley, except the eurled English variety, should be considered absolutely penal. The very smell of “country” parsley is assuredly sufficient to warn the unwary, and yet many Madras cooks bung it home daily,—the weed has been called “parsley” ever since they can remember, and they fail to appreciate the wide difference between it, and the real herb. All “ wJ6 C°,°kS ^early J°-v®^he spice box, and they all reverence Woicester Sauce.” Now I consider the latter far too powerful an element for indiscriminate use in the kitchen especially so in India where our cooks are inclined to over-flavour everything. If in the house at all, the proper place for this sauce is the cruet stand where it can be swallowing ZTT7 t0 misfcakes> ^ assist us in should Via° °C we* might otherwise decline; but it care a, a ELTfrtS “ ?ama8““y wilh ‘he studious caie as a bottle of chloroform from a lady suffering from atomsDthpa g1?' SPbie’ 'f necessai7> should be doled°out in atoms, the cook ought never to have it under his control. Does every housekeeper appreciate sufficiently the inval- uable trimmings of meat, skin, and bone which remain sav aftei a number of tasty choplets have been prepared for tlfe1S CUL^IIY JOYYIJ^aS FOR Jd£@I&8. grid-iron from a neck of mutton ? Do all know that Raina- Imv’s domestic curry often gains, whilst we lose, the nice savoury oravy which should have accompanied our entree ; but thengif “missus din’t give arder for using bits all, can Kamasamy, a child of this world, be blamed ? ^ various receipts which I hope to give, you will always find a few lines reserved for the treatment of the scraps, and as each bad habit of the cookroom occurs to me I will endeavour o expose and explain it to the best ot my power.CHAPTER IV. About Certain Kitchen Requisites. (^j^LOWTNG then, that our native cooks are by nature - adapted to their calling, and that by judicious treat- ment we can develope the talent which they possess one of the next things for consideration is our kitchen equipment, and the kind of utensils which will be found best suited for Ramasamy’s use, bearing in mind the sort of dishes we shall hereafter call upon him to prepare. In introducing novelties of European construction to the Indian cook-room it is, a sine qua non to proceed with caution. _ Ramasamy is intensely conservative, and a sworn mnovations. Perchance there are amongst my leaders some who can look back with a sigh to sundry mtioneof°alT"S7 n“k-nackB b/ougkt out, in happy anticR pation of giand cook-room reforms, to Madras, which mis woiSessdfroTbthb ^ WG1'e either soon ca8fc aside as worthless horn barbarous treatment, or diverted to uses which would drive the inventors crazy to think of. I call to Blind having observed an instance of this kind when stay nig once with a friend on the Hills :-the water foT my > as ;°^t, I noticed, in the outer vessel of a “ War- ren s patent cooking pot. “Yes” snid ™v J,,1 when T n eS> SaiCl ^ost sorrowfully - frat gars 2!4 CULTJIjmY JOttTJiaS FOIt MJLQZflS. Left entirely alone, with articles of his own selection around him, the native cook is, however, a singularly ingenious creature. All men who have been accustomed to a °nomad life under canvas—far from the busy hum of cantonments-will, I think, agree with me in this. Given a hole in the ground, and a couple of stones for her range, with a bundle of jungle sticks, a chatty or two, perhaps a dekshaw, and a fan, wherewithal to prepare a dinner, can you picture to yourself the face of Martha, the thoiough good cook” of an English household ? An amusing episode happened some five years ago which struck me at the time as illustrative to a degree of Rama- samy’s opinion of the British system of c°oke,T-.I hap- pened to be with a Regiment at Se^a“derabJd.,Wn^^ reasons connected with the antiquated barracks it occupied was ordered to move into a standing camp. Our Colonel, an exceedingly young and fortunate officer, was a rampant soldTer of the new'school. His brain was ever busy with new ideas: it was even reported that he slept with Wolse- ley’s soldier’s pocket-book” and “The rules for ^nailing m connection with Outpost duty under his pillow. The order to march into camp delighted him. After issuing his orders concerning the geometrical lines in ^ the tents to be pitched, not even forgetting tbe whitewash ing of the tent pegs, he turned his attention to kltfb®ns' Here was an opportunity for practically establishin a “Wolseley’s field* kitchen.” Two Officers who had lecentl} nassed successfully through the Garrison course of mstiuc- tion were accordingly sent for, and, as a personal favoui to the Commanding Officer, requested to camnin^ ground, and lay out a series of broad-auow kitchens foi the Reffiment. The work was done, and we marched nfn pnmn° the next day. Whilst the men were busy at stables, the Colonel rode about inspecting everyt ing, pi^ sently he came upon the neatly ^ £ his astonishment, found them deseited . , men’s be seen ! Orderlies flew to find out where on earth the men s breakfasts were being cooked, aud in a few minutesJlgOUQ QE^filfT KIECHEJV %EQUISI&E8. 15 corps de cuisine was discovered squatting at work more suo in a dry nullah hard by. The Colonel furiously demanded why the proper kitchens had not been used, and “ all this abominable mess prevented ?” Presently a cook of greater daring than his colleagues replied “What sar ! that bad sense kitchen, sar, I beg your pardon : too much firewood taking : see sar this praper kitchen only.” In the face of so irresisti- ble an argument, the Colonel (albeit irritated beyond measure) was constrained to abandon his cherished project. When presenting Ramasamy, therefore, with novel utensils, let us guard against his denouncing them “bad sense.” We must patiently show him how to use them, proving, if we possibly can, by practical illustration the satisfactory results, saving of time, and so forth, to be gained by their means. Anything complicated should be avoided. As far as my personal experience goes I can recommend the introduction of that invaluable utensil a “ bainmarie,” or long shallow trough, which, filled with hot water, and kept over a low fire, affords a hot bath in which the various little saucepans containing sauces, etc., can be set, and so kept hot without deterioration. You can have one made to order to fit your saucepans in copper, iron, or block tin; the first will, of course, outlast the other two. Native cooks take readily to the mincing machine, and I find that my chef fully appreciates the vegetable cutter, root-knife, dishing up fork, gravy strainer, wire sieve, hair sieve, colander, mortar, wire-frying basket, “ Warren’s fish kettle and vegetable steamer,” and the larding needle, which he can use easily. Larding is one of the branches of the cook s art which comes naturally to a native; as a rule also I think that they surpass Europeans in boning poultry, an operation which Martha rarely attempts. The digester is a vessel that may be given to Ramasamy without hesitation; and he is keenly alive to the value of the stew pan. In frying-pans he is not hypercritical: I16 CTJLIJ'JJili Y JOe±cnj'TG-S FOI{ J£JL@>I{£B. do not think he perceives the difference between a saute pan and an omelette pan. He dislikes anything heavy, and generally asks for a small iron-pan. I feel disposed to agree with a friend in Madras, whose experience in culinary matters is great, who advocates a heavy iron frying-pan, steady over the fire on account of its own weight,—for all real saute work, and, of course, a handy vessel tor omelettes. The large pan he recommends can be made in any Indian bazaar, and, when used in conjunction with the frying basket, 1 should think it would be found most valuable. Like many English cooks, the native is apt to discard the grid-iron and take the frying-pan for many things which ought invariably to be cooked in the former vessel : this tendency requires watching, for, in many of the receipts I hope to give, broiling is essential. I hesitate to pronounce any opinion upon the metal best adapted for kitchen utensils, for upon this point different people think differently. Copper is, we all know, um- versally recommended on account of its durability. You see nothing else in the kitchens of restaurants, clubs, &c., and in all establishments where the demands upon the chef are frequent and elaborate. If treated with ordinary care, no evil should result from its use. Enamelled iron ware looks nice when new, but the slightest carelessness destroys the enamel, and when once cracked it may be considered done for. Plain wrought iron vessels, tinned, are serviceable, and block tin for certain utensils is not to be despised. In my own kitchen I have a mixed collection which answers its purpose well enough. With regard to the equipment necessary for an ordinary establishment I can safely recommend -.—four stew-pans ot sizes, six sauce-pans assorted, one large sauce-pan wit steamer, an iron three-gallon digester, one braising-pan, two frying-pans, (one heavy and one light,) one omelette-pan, a fluted grid-iron, a tin fish kettle, an ordinary iron kettle, two spits of sizes, and one bainmarie capable ot holding four or five small sauce pans.JR OUT OERTjIIJI KITCUEJ7 REQUISITES'. 17 In addition to this,—the heavy portion of the equipment, —-the cook should have:—three iron spoons of sizes, three wooden spoons, a basting ladle, a fish slice, a set of skewers, a set of larding needles, a meat saw, a chopper, a dishing-up fork, two common forks, thi’ee cook’s knives in sizes, a root knife, a mincing knife, a toasting fork, a block tin colander, two tin gravy strainers, a wire sieve, two hair sieves of sizes, a wire-frying basket, three jelty moulds of sizes, two pud- ding moulds, a cake'mould, two border moulds, a wooden slab, (or marble if you can get one) for pastry, with rolling pin, a pestle and mortar (stone or iron best for India; I have lost two Wedgwood mortars broken through careless use on a stone-paved floor,) a flour dredger, a sugar dredger, a pepper box, a bread grater, a set of vegetable cutters, a paste jagger, a set of pastry cutters, a dozen patty pans, half a dozen mince pie pans, a baking sheet, two baking tins, two bread or cake tins, a set of freezing utensils complete, a coffee mill, a mincing machine, and a tin box with divisions for a small supply of pepper corns, salt, ground pepper, sugar, &c. I strongly recommend that every cook should have at least four common earthenware bowls, two of them with lips for setting stock, gravies, &c., &c., and it will be found as well to give him a few cheap crockery sundries for exclusive use in his kitchen, otherwise portions of your breakfast +?rlinn?ri sf,ts,wl11 their way to the cook-room, and the list of killed, wounded, and missing will become alarm- ing. 1 think the following sufficient: one jug, two cups and saucers, a wine glass for measurement, six plates, two dishes two small basins, and three wire covers to protect meat, &c., from flies: these articles may obviously be of the commonest ware or of enamelled iron. A rough box fitted with a lock and key should be given to the cook for the safe custody of the many small articles I have enumerated. . ,Ifc 13 hardly necessary I hope for me to point out the intense importance of cleanliness in the cook-room and b/h-f11 6nS1 3 conn®cfced. therewith. If you cannot go to the kitchen yourself, it is essential that you should holdIS CUL]JVJ1I?Y JOYZTJSTG-S FOI? weekly inspections of all your cooking utensils, wlucli should be spread out on a mat in the verandah for that purpose. Give out washing soda, for you cannot keep things clean without it; and be very particular about the cloths that are used by the cook. There is a horrible taste which sometimes clings to soups, sauces, etc., which a friend of mine specifies as “dirty cloth taste.” This is eloquent of neglect, and dirty habits in the kitchen. Sieves will do for many things, but there are some -compositions which must be strained through cloths, we cannot therefore be too attentive with reference to that part of our kitchen equip- ment.CHAPTER -V". ♦ In the Store-room. N visiting the vast collections of tinned provisions, sauces, &c., at some of the large establishments at the Presidency, I have often wondered how a lady, commencing house-keeping, is guided in selecting the things she requires for her store-room. A majority no doubt of the fair chatelaines of Madras do their shopping at their boudoir writing tables, filling up lists at the dictation of the butler at their elbow; for few, I take it,—very few, care to go to the fountain head for what they want. Now a butler s ideas about stores are on the whole very mixed: he worships “Europe articles” and delights in fill- ing the shelves of the store-room with rows of tins ; of w uch some may perhaps be useful, but many need never be bought at all at Madras, and so remain for months untouched, lumbering the shelves of the cupboard. It has struck me, therefore, that having satisfied ourselves con- cerning the equipment of the kitchen, a few words regard- mg the choosing of stores may be acceptable. I have long come to the conclusion that the fewer acces- sories you use in the way of hermetically sealed provisions in the cooking of a dinner the better. In Madras we have all the materials for soup making at hand, we have excellent fish, very fair flesh and fowl, good wild fowl and ^amehave, but until I attended this big Indian dinner, I never culijtjiiiy joYY^raa FOi? when in season, and vegetables from Bangalore, and the Neil "her ries, in addition to the standard produce of the country. If, therefore, we concentrate our attention suffi- ciently upon what we can get from market, our demand on tinned food should be very small indeed. Take now for instance a tin of the ordinary preserved mushrooms,—those made you know of white leather,—what is the use of them, what do they taste of ? Yet people giving a dinner party must needs garnish one entree at least with them, and the Madras butler would be horrified if his mistress were to refuse him that pleasure. The stewed “black Leicestershire are the best preserved mushrooms to be had, but even between them and the fresh fungus there is a great gult fixed. A few'years ago I met an officer of the Artillery, who after havin" served in various parts of the world had just been appointed to a command in this Presidency. Conversation happened to turn upon cookery, and the Colonel soon proved himself to be a man who had for years studied the science oj» amove. He had had little or no experience of Indian lile, and he expressed himself agreeably surprised rather than otherwise, at the style of living to which he had been introduced. “ But,” he said, “ preserve me from your din™*3 of ceremony.” He had arrived, he told me,quite unexpectedly a few evenings before, and had been at once invited to the mess; the dinner,—just the ordinary daily one-was he thought, excellent, and so it was the next day, and the y following, but on the fourth day he was formally mvited o dine as a Mess guest, and that was a very different affair Considerable expense had been gone to, he observed, on this occasion in tinned provisions, but with the worst possible result. There was a dish of preserved salmon hot, and sodden • the entries were spoilt by the introduction of terrible sausages, and mushrooms; and thetmnedvegeta- bles were ruined by being wrongly treated by jhe^cook, ‘‘There are few men,” the Colonel we ’ , y have had more to do with preserved provisions than 121 Ijsf <?HE SZOIlE-ItOOM- saw such things actually regarded as delicacies, and put upon the table to the exclusion of the good fresh food procurable in the market.” This is the proper way of looking at this question. There will be times and places, when and where )7ou will be obliged to fall back upon Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, and be thankful; until those evil days come upon you, however, do not anticipate your penance, but strive to make the food you can easily procure, palatable and good by scientific treatment. I look upon tinned provisions in the hands of Ramasamy as the cloaks of carelessness, and slovenly cooking; he thinks that the tin will cover a multitude of sins, so takes com- paratively little pains with the dish that it accompanies. There are many ladies who when giving out stores for a dinner party, have no hesitation in issuing tins to the value of many rupees, but if asked for extra cream, butter, and gravy-meat,—the true essentials of cookery,—begin to consider themselves imposed upon. The poverty of our cookery in India results almost wholly from our habit of ignoring these things, the very backbone, as it were, of the cook’s art. If an English cook, surrounded with the best market supplies in the world, be helpless without her stock, her kitchen butter, and her cream and eggs, how much more should Ramasamy be pitied if he be refused those necessaries, for his materials stand in far greater need of assistance. Unless you have practically tried to find out what can be done with the fish, flesh, fowl, and vegetables of India by studious cookery, you will scarcely believe the extent of your power, and how independent you really are of preserved provisions. It is absolutely annoying to those who have worked the subject up to read an ai'ticle like that headed “ Curry and Rice” in a recent number of Vanity Fair. I he writer wrecks on the rock upon which many drift, who, with a little knowledge of the peculiari- ties of some particular part ©f the country, sit down with impudent confidence to treat of India generally, quite for-'ss culijtj^y jowrnas FOI? MflQRfi®- getting that the peninsula is a large one, and that the manners and customs which obtain in one district, may never have been heard of in other parts of the Empire. The article is not applicable to any part of the Madras Presidency, and judging from the writer’s suggestions as to the cookery of a tin of beef with yams, and worse still, the fabrication of soup from the fowl bones you picked and left at luncheon, I should say that Vanity had picked up not only an ignoramus, but an uncleanly ignommus, as a contributor. Our friends at Home are told by this auda- cious man that no dinner is complete in India without a burning curry, and that none is successful without “Europe tins.” °I think that, as we go on, I shall be able to prove that at Madras, at all events, we can do pretty well without either. Although I am strongly against the use of tinned things to the extent that many allow, there are nevertheless many articles which you must have in the store-room pickles, sauces, jams, bacon, cheese,. maccaroni, vermice 1, vinegars, flavouring essences, the invaluable truffle, tart fruits, biscuits, isinglass, arrow-root, oatmeal, peail bailey, cornflour, olives, capers, dried herbs, and so on. Grated Parmesan cheese (sold in bottles by Crosse and Blac we ) should never be forgotten, the salad oil should be the best procurable, and no store-room should be without tarragon vinegar, anchovy vinegar, French vinegar, and white wine vinegar. Amongst sauces I consider “ Harvey the best 01 general use; Sutton’s “ Empress of India,” is a strong sauce with a real flavour of mushrooms; “ Reading sauce is veiy trustworthy, and there are others which no doubt commend themselves to different palates, but I denounce “Worcester sauce” as too powerful an agent in the hands of the cook Sutton’s essence of anchovies is said to possess the charm ot not clotting, or forming a stoppage in the neck of the bottle. I have a deep respect for ketchup, soy, and tomato conserve. Then as special trifles we must not forget caviare, olives farcies, and anchovies in oil.IJT EHE SEO^E-I^OOM. S3 The cook should be carefully shown the use of flavouring essences, and also the manner of mixing dried herbs. He ought also to be taught never to run out of bread crumbs. Stale fine crumbs should be made every now and then, and kept corked down in bottles for use when required. The very unsightly appearance presented by fish, cutlets, etc., crumbed with fresh spongy crumbs should warn us, for stale bread is never to be had when you suddenly want it. Red currant jelly is very useful; the store-room should never be “ out” of it. I shall treat of tinned vegetables hereafter in their proper place: macedoines, petits pois, and asperges, are of course excellent, and the dried Julienne will be found admirable for soups. Preserved fish is not required at Madras, and we can get on without tinned meats, soups, and potted luxuries, for we can make better things at home. In sweet things, however, we ai’e not so independent, and jams, jellies, tart-fruits, dried and candied peel, currants, raisins, ginger, &c., &c., must all have room in the house- keepers cupboard. Of tinned butters, I shall speak in a future chapter.CHAPTER VI. 4> On Soup-Making. IITH a keen appreciation of the importance of the sub- ject, and of the difficulties with which it is sur- rounded, I proceed to-day to place before my readers a little collection of hints and wrinkles about soup-making which I have gathered from time to time from a variety of sources Some by practical experience gained by bona fide work in the kitchen, some given to me by friends, and some picked out of different works on the culinary art. In my extracts from books I shall endeavour to record, as much as possible, such advice only as I have tested myself, and I shall try to make my gleanings simple and concise. To be<nn then ; there are, we know, three distinct classes of soups!—the clear, the thick, and the puree. We recognise clear soups in the menu under different names: for instance, we meet consomme de volaille, and potage a la pmntaniere, but whereas the word consomme is invariably applied to clear soups we find potage frequently used tor thick also, to —Potage d la Heine, potage d la bonne femme, 8rc. Let us distinguish between thick soups and purges m this way;—The former owe their consistency to the addition of some artificial thickening, such as flour arrowroot, &c., the latter on the other hand derive their thick chaiactenstic from the ingredients that compose them being rubbedOJT SOTJCP-JrfjZKIJja. 25 through a tamis, or through a wire sieve, and communicated to the stock in the form of a thick pulp, as we find in puree d’artichauts, puree de legumes, purde de gibier, fyc. A soup partaking of the character of a thinish puree, helped up by artificial aid in the way of thickening, is called by some writers a potage d la puree. The bisque again is a purte strictly speaking of crayfish (aux ecrevisses) or of lobster .(de homard) but it can be made successfully with crab, prawns, and shrimps; indeed a nice bisque can be made with any fish.—So much for names. Let us now turn our attention to the consommt, for we may regard it as the foundation upon which nearly every soup is based. “ Stock,” says a capital writer on cookery, “ is to a cook what the medium or the water is to the painter in oils or in water colours. It may be defined generally speaking as a solution in water of the nutritive, and sapid elements contained in meat and bones: salt and spices added to it to make it savoury, and if to this you add the flavour of various vegetables you have soup.” We must remember, however, to start with, that soup in India must be made in one day. We cannot fall back upon the never-empty stock pot of the English kitchen : our’s must be made daily, and, to guard against waste, only in sufficient quantity for the day’s consumption. In saying this I have, of course, mainly before me the climate of Madras, and of the plains of Southern India. At the hill stations and during the cold weather in the northern part of the country, the method, obtaining in British households may, no doubt, with care, and slight modification, be followed. Our soup, then, being actually an ephemeral production we should proceed as follows “ For the type of all stock making, says the G. C. “ there can be no better recipe taken than that of the French pot au feu," let us therefore take his advice in this wise:—“Put a piece of soup meat (say of tour pounds weight—the recipe can, of course, be followed 326 CULIJJJ1IIY JOZYI^G-S FOi? by adding or reducing as you may require) tightly bound with a string, and the bones and all with it into a digester pot filled with water, so as to completely cover the meat. Put the pot by the side of the fire and let it become gradu- ally heated. As this takes place a scum will form upon the surface which must be carefully removed as it rises. The clearness of the soup will depend upon all the scum being taken off, and upon the water being kept from boiling point until it is all removed. This done; have the follow- ing vegetables carefully cleaned and cut up in small pieces, which you put into the sauce-pan a few at a time, viz. : a couple of onions, a clove of garlic, (not a whole bulb please) three or four carrots, two or three turnips, and a leek (if you can get one) one head of celery, a bunch of curly parsley, and a couple of tomatoes. Then put in, tied up in a piece of muslin, some thyme, marjoram, a handful of whole pepper, and allspice, a little cinnamon, a blade of mace, and two or three cloves. A tea spoonful each of dried thyme and marjoram will be found enough. The exact pro- portions of these things cannot be fixed arbitrarily; the flavour of no one of them should predominate ; and to attain this, taste and practice are necessary: You can next put in an ounce of salt, a dessert spoonful of sugar, a tablespoonfnl of Harvej7’ sauce, and two of mushroom ketchup ; when the pot au feu is, so to speak, thus completed, it must be left to simmer slowly from three to four hours. Then, or before, if, by tasting, the soup is found sufficiently flavoured, the muslin bag must be taken out. The soup is now strained into a basin and left to cool, so that any remaining fat may be effectually skimmed off. The clear liquor is then warmed and served with maccaroni, bread sippets, or vegetables, &c., according to the kind of soup you wish to have. This is, to my mind, the simplest recipe you can follow to achieve a bright clear consomme. It is, of course, imper- ative that you proceed exactly as described. First, the meat covered with cold water, and brought very slow y o the boil, being very carefully skimmed the while, when the skimming is completed, the vegetables, the little27 OJT 80TJ<P-JvljlKIJ7G. bouquet of sweet herbs and spice,—the salt, sugar, and a small allowance of sauce and ketchup. Now a period of three hours to simmer, followed by straining: the liquor you have after this is actually consomme or strong broth quite clear and pale. Removing the fat whilst the simmering is going on is obviously a very important stage which cannot be too patiently manipulated. The fat so obtained is in- valuable for frying purposes. It should be melted, and strained through a piece of muslin after it has settled. It may so happen that owing to insufficient skimming in the early stage of the proceedings, you find to your sorrow that the consomme is not as clear as you could wish :—you must therefore clarify it. There are two good ways of doing this :—the simpler, and I believe, more efficacious of the two is to put into the cool broth some very small fragments of raw beef, free from fat, put it on the fire again tifl it boils, then strain. Perhaps, however, you may not have saved a bit of meat for this contingency, so you must attain your object with the white of an egg, thusBreak an egg, and throw the white and the shell together into a slop basin,—be careful not to let an atom of the yolk go in,—beat the white and shell up to a stiff froth, and mix it, flake by flake very completely with the cool soup, put it on the fire stirring well till it boils. Take it off immediately, cover it close let it stand tor a quarter of an hour, and then stiain it off through the tamis, or hair sieve. Let me here point out the cause of another misadventure m the satisfactory appearance of a clear soup,—one that en occuis in consomme with maccaroni, vermicelli, and [\eaV tai ?-U hay?. °ot y°ur stock as bright and clear as sherry, but after adding the ingredients just mentioned a change comes over the spirit of your dream ’’—the soun food8of the y' The leai°n iS fch'S : a11 Preserved> farinaceous lood of the maccaroni class contains dirt,—dirt that vou do not perceive, and which can only be removed by parboiling Accordmglj, whenever you intend- to add it £ Zltmt28 CULTJsrjlIfY JOWIJTQ-S FOI? JAJIQIIJIS. you should boil it independently in plain water in order that the outside dirty part may be washed off by becoming dissolved—plain washing in water is not enough. There is another feature in a clear soup which I have reserved for special attention, and that is the colouring. Now an idea prevails amongst numbers of English people that a soup to be good and strong must be dark-coloured. Old-fashioned people speak of your modern consomme as a weak washy composition only fit for foreigners. But if you take the very self-same liquor and brown it with a lot of burnt onion, and thicken it with flour, they are perfectly satisfied. Did you ever make jugged-beef tea for a sick friend, the strongest possible essence of raw lean beef, was not the liquor so obtained as clear as sherry, pale- coloured, with a quantity of granulated particles of the beef floating in it? Well, when strained that would have been consommd without the flavouring produced from vegetables and the bouquet of sweet herbs, and surely strong enough for the veriest John Bull that ever talked nonsense about cookery. Now if you desire to impart a golden brown tint to your clear soup, or a darker tint (which the gods forfend), you must achieve your object by a browning (Caramel) made thus :—put a gill of water into a small frying pan, with a quarter pound of white sugar, and half an ounce of butter; set it over the fire, and stir it till it reaches the brown tint you want: add half a pint of water to it—boil, and skim it, let it get cold, and then bottle and cork it down for use. A little of this should be put into the soup prior to the three hours’ simmering stage, if a golden brown be the tint desired. If you can beg, buy, borrow, or steal (for that would be almost pardonable in such a case) a small bottle of French- made sue colorant, you need not trouble your head about the colouring, for a little of that exquisite preparation will colour and also slightly improve the flavour of your consomme.29 ojt soutp-jt^zrpra. Grated Parmesan cheese should always be handed round with clear soups, for it improves many of them. Chilli vinegar in minute particles is considered by some a great improvement. I strongly advise any of my reader’s who write to England for their stores, not to forget to ask for a little bottle of American “ Tabasco” or quintessence of cayenne sold by Messrs. Jackson and Co., Piccadilly, priced half a crown : each bottle is furnished with a patent stopper to enable you to shake out a drop at a time; two drops in each basin of soup is generally found enough, and the flavour is very good, quite superseding chilli-vinegar. The next important feature for consideration in soup- making is the adding of wine, which, I think, may be regarded as very essential. Madeira is better than sherry for most soups—a rich, full, fruity wine, inexpensive for want of age, and scarcely to be recommended for after dinner drinking,—is the class best adapted for kitchen use. If sherry be preferred, it ought to be a fruity one, and sound, not a cheap extraordinary compound composed of molasses, washings of sherry casks, and the most villainous brandy, but honest sherry, lacking age, perhaps, yet bond fide wine. “There is a good saying,” observes an author on cookery, “that is appropriate here:—“It is no use spoiling the ship for the sake of a ha’porth of tar,”—it is, I think, no use spoiling a good soup for the sake of a spoonful of wine.” Be careful, however, not to over-do the soupgon of wine that yon add to a clear soup; a good table spoonful is, to my mind, enough for a tureen filled for eight persons. Thick soups, especially those made of game, mock turtle, giblet, kidney, and the like, take a larger share of wine: hare soup requires port or burgundy, wild duck and teal soup also, whilst potages of snipe, partridges, quails, junglefowls, &c., are, I think, better enriched with Madeira. I will conclude this, my first Chapter on Soup-makin^, with a code of general rules on the subject:— 1. Take care that your sauce-pan, stew-pan, or digester, is thoroughly clean before you commence operations; a goodCTJL17WY JOWipGS FOI? JdJIQRflS- 30 scalding with hot water in which a lump of washing soda has been dissolved, will make matters certain, and take away that smoky taint which all our utensils get in India owing to our wood fires, and chimneyless ranges. 2. Use soft water in preference to hard. 3. One shin of beef is enough for two persons, two shins ought to suffice for six, and so on. 4. Remember that slow boiling, and retarding actual boil- ing as much as possible, are important points to start with. 5. Don’t cover up your pan too closely, the steam should evaporate to assist the strength of the soup. 6. Skim frequently during the early stage of your pro- ceedings,— a cup of cold water thrown in causes the scum, or albumen, to come up quickly. 7. Use a wooden spoon. 8. Put in your vegetables after the skimming is finished. 9. It will take four or five hours to extract the essence from a few pounds of beef, so begin as soon as you can, anc don’t hurry work. 10. Water in which fowls, mutton, and fish have been boiled is actually weak stock, it becomes very useful if you let it reduce by simmering with the lid oil. 11. Wash your vegetables very carefully before adding them. It is better to season too little than too highly. 12 Put fresh soup-meat into cold water: hot, not boiling, water should be poured round meat and bones that have been previously cooked. 13. A quart of water to a pound of meat and bone is said to be the outside you can allow m Eng an , u smaller proportion will be found advisable in India-a pint and a half to a pound for instance.SI OJT BOTJtP-JdjlKIJTG. 14. As soon as the vegetables which are put into the pot <xu feu are done, they should be removed. . There is nothing to be gained by keeping the meat simmering when once it is thoroughly done. . The consowme is at it's best when the meat which made it is done to a nicety. Boiling “ to rags” is a useless proceeding Have these rules, and the recipe for pot au feu, written out in Tamil by your butler and pasted upon card board, to be hung in the cook-room for Ramasamy’s edification.VH. Soup-making—continued. BXr UaL planter I purposely omitted saying any- nx: ih“ r 7tfettr£Stc°uJto^ which o“the ^enufsent & Lie as a matter of course. I« -,1 can strongly recommend a timlotho^ ^ agsume that the should be treated m this way . carried out as far recipe for pot au feu ha vegetables, or as as the straining stage, and that all tne D83 S0U<P-JrfJlKIJ*G—C0J7cnj*UE(I>. many of them as were procurable, have been used : now place the meat on a dish, remove the string that bound, it, and serve it surrounded by maccaroni previously boiled till tender, and a puree obtained by rubbing all the vege- tables through the wire sieve, moistened with a little of the bouillon or consommti. Don’t rush away with the Anglo-Saxon idea that there is no “goodness” (Martha’s word) in soup-meat. “There is,” says the G. C., “as much nutriment in it as there would have been, had it been roasted; and much more than if it had been converted into salt junk, as it is the English custom to do with the silverside of beef.” You can vary the bouilli by tomato sauce, any piquante sauce, or even soubise. The soup-meat with maccaroni, and puree of tomatoes is the favourite “ manzo guernito” of the Italian dinner. Talking of soup-meat, does everyone know that the potted meats so largely exported, and commonly appreciated in this country, are made from the meat of which the tinned soups are composed? It is a fact nevertheless, and every atom of meat is thus turned to account by the preserved provision dealers. The potted meat you see in a confec- tioner’s window at home, neatly capped with melted butter, is made from the beef which produced the stock of the mock turtle (I bet anything it is “ mock turtle,”) he advertises at a shilling a basin—enterprising man ! I tested this myself. Having before me a large piece of soup-meat apparently full of nutriment, I determined as an experiment, to make potted meat of it. Martha, my cook, looked sourly on—(I little knew that I was robbing her of the price of that meat from the nearest pastry-cook) and called it, for her part, a “hawful mess,” but we, who ate it, found it delicious. In London, and all large towns in England, a regular private trade in soup-meat, bones, and fragments, is carried on between our cooks and the keepers of refreshment rooms, which both parties regard as perfectly legitimate. To return to the subject of soups:—having, I hope, mastered the difficulties of the consomme, or foundation of84 CULIJ4J1I?Y JOWIJJG-S FOIf most soups, we will now consider a variety of little things which, I refrained from attempting in my first chapter. Regarding clear soups again : an idea prevails with some people that these require to be assisted with gelatine, or isinglass, to give them a sort of glutinous consistency. Ramasamy has discovered a very pernicious sort of starch which he produces from a raw-potato, and by this compound the soup in many houses I know is ruined; the potato imparts a crude, inky flavour to the consomme which is hard to describe on paper, but is fatal in its effect upon the palate. Ramasamy should be cautioned on no account to use what he calls “ potato-thickening” again, under any circumstances whatever, and, once for all, let me observe that clear soups require no isinglass. The consomme cannot be too bright and clear. “ Country parsley,” (to my mind) spoils any soup, our natives are very fond of it, I have interdicted its use in my kitchen under pain of a fine. Tarragon is the best flavouring herb you can use in clear soup, but we have only the vinegar in India, not the plant itself, and a leaf or two is, what we desire in soup. I brought out some dried tarragon leaves from England which I have found highly satisfactory, and can safely recommend others to try. Unfortunately tarragon is not included in Crosse and Blackwell’s dried herb list, so you must write, if sufficiently enthusiastic, to a fiiend who has a large kitchen garden, and beg him to till a bottle or two with tarragon leaves carefully dried for you. In London any green-grocer can comply with this order from June till the end of October. Now about thick soups, apart from purees these are perhaps more popular with the majority of English people, than the thin clear. There is an expression of richness and of strength in them which cannot fail to captivate the Briton. °He, therefore, that would gratify his countrymen must frequently offer them a soup which is in itseli a meal. I made the acquaintance of a little French woman in Loudon whose husband kept a pastry cook s shop and was85 80U<p-jtjunjiG—cofT<rifruEQ. a chef indeed. Asking one day in a hurry for any clear soup they could give me, Madame Gregoire arched her eye- brows and said “ Ah ! m’sieur it would not pa}' us to make for our customers the consomme: Oxtail, mock turtle, and Pui'ee de pois we have ready; for a clear soup we must have notice of a few hours,” and we exchanged our regrets that Englishmen could not appreciate, even in the midst of July, a potcige a la printani&re. Still I confess that a thick soup is acceptable at times : In cool weather; when you return as hungry as a hunter from some physical enterprise; or when you have a little cosy dinner of only a very few items to discuss—a soup, a slice of a joint, a dressed vegetable, and your cheese,—but I hesitate to recommend soups of this class for a Madras dinner party,—to be placed before men whose labours all day have been sedentary, and ladies who have lunched well, and passed their day in graceful repose. And it is mainly for them, be it remembered, that I compose what a friendly critic terms my “ menus mignons.” There is one feature about thick soups which is worthy of attention, and that is that you need not be so scrupu lously careful in the making of the stock, or in selecting the materials of which the stock is made, for you have not to flunk of that clearness which is the salient feature of your consomme. Thick soups can therefore, be made of the bones of cooked meat, and scraps that would never do for potac/e d la Julienne for instance. 1 J Let us take as a type of a really good thick soup that called potage a la bonne femme, which says the G C is made in this way. Prepare a quart or more of stock, and keep that by your side, now:—“Cut up a good sized (Bombay) onion into very thin rounds, and place them in a sauce-pan with a good allowance of butter. Take care not to let the onion get brown, and when it is half done anrl°T in tT° thl'?e ha“dfuls of sorrel, a little lettuce’ and a bunch of parsley, all finely cut: add pepper salt a little nutmeg and keep stirring until the y^etabies are neaily done. You then add a fcablespoonfufof pounded96 OULgWHY jowm&s F0J? MJlQtlfl3- loaf-sucrar, and half a cupful of the stock, freed from fat and not coloured. Let the mixture reduce nearly to a Maze when you throw in about a quart of the stock, and after ’the soup has given a boil, it can be put aside un 1 the time of serving. You now must prepare about a dozen pieces of bread cut very thin about two inches long,and an inch wide, taking care that there is crust along one of tliei loner sides and you must dry these thoroughly in the oven. £TIs send up the soup, you remove the super- fluous fat from it, then set it to boil, and when rt bods, stir into it—off the fire—the yolks of two or thiee eggs beaten up with a quarter of a pint of boiling ■cieam 01 even milk Pour the soup over the slices of biead, a d serve in three minutes this would be enough for six basins. This leads me to an important feature in ^ost thiok soups and vurees and that is the addition of cream, 01 milk wi the volks of e»s. It will be sometimes found in recipes for these sonps'that boilin', cream is ordered to be added The distinction is important: r.ot rneiely , ;3 curdling avoided, but the flavour imparted to the potof/c different All know, for example, how diffeient is the taste of coffee that is made with boiling milk, from that to whic cold milk has been added. When therefore you add cream to soup, boil it beforehand ^kofan eg^be added to it, but be careful SSuf lit A* do this boil the milk first attentively, an p e> a strainer into the soup; next make the«™» just before serving the soup, throw into itU 5 "'j , th eve take a spoonful of the soup, and woik it we 1 »» yolk, and add more soup, spoonful by “ ^ thoroughly; lastly, pour in the remainder ot the soup which should, of course, be as hot as possible.CHAPTER VIII. Soup-making—concluded. 1HICK soups may be divided into two classes—the white, and the brown. The principles followed in both are very similar; the main difference, of course, consists in the sort of meat used, and the addition of brown, or white roux, as the case may be. Roux is simply melted butter, with flour added to it, according to the quantity of soup you want to thicken. The butter must be melted first, the flour being dredged in by degrees, and stirred vigorously at the bottom of the sauce-pan until thoroughly incorporated, and velvety. If required for a brown soup, you can allow the roux to colour : but if for a white, you must commence adding the soup to it as soon as the flour and butter have been suffi- ciently worked together. In making these soups the utmost care should be taken not to over-do the thickening. In the case of a white soup this error is more fatal than in a brown : you might as well offer your guest a basin of arrowroot “ conjee,” or any nice gruel, for the savoury flavour of the soup is easily over- powered. A little practice will teach a cook how much flour, or arrowroot, is necessary to obtain the desired con- sistency of a thick soup, and he should bear in mind that the full effect of the thickening does not assert itself until the soup, which has been added to it, comes to the boil. 43g GULT^fiHY JOGGIJVGS POJ? Observe that you add the soup to the roux, not the roux to the soup. The adding should be done by degrees, if you want the soup to be smooth and creamy. 1 have given several recipes for thick soups in my menu*, and it the tew General rules I have given be carefully noted, I think that my readers will experience very little difficulty in carrying them out satisfactorily. And now we come to the puree which, to my mind, is per- haps one of the most important features of the whole study of cookery. In India this form of preparing our meat and vegetables oucrht to be much more generally understood and piactise ^han it is In a puree we can work into a palatable and wholesome condition, meat, that from its poverty or tough- ness would be sorry fare indeed if boiled, or roasted. . An ordinary little dish of neatly trimmed mutton-chops (nicely drilled over a clear fire) becomes an artistic entree if served round a nest of mashed potato, containing a delicate puree of vegetable, such as celery, peas, asparagus, tomato, spinach &c„ whilst common onion sauce, thus treated, is promoted to the dignity of sauce soubise. Old partridges and jungle fowl, the remains of cold poultry, J ofTgime, can L turned to capital T?ven an ancient, and extraordinarily toi 0 9 II hP thus rendered fit to eat. For the sick, and for those suffering from tooth-ache, food cooked in this manner Is^valuaWe, whilst there can be no doubt that it must be good for children. Tn order to he able to accomplish all purges satisfactorily you must possess a strong pestle and n-otUr alaige h Sieve, a wile sieve and a m.ncro,! machine J^mS to make a puree of meat of any kind of labour is saved by first using the mortar is then reduced to a minimum and the poumie^ meat will soon be ready to pass through the80TJCp-JtfJlKIJTG—C0J<rCLU(pE(D. 39 the sieve, by the way, caution your cook that he must always put whatever he wishes to pass through it, at the shallow end, placing the sieve over a large bowl, or dish, big enough to receive it, and rubbing the 'puree through it with a large wooden spoon : from time to time he must invert the sieve, and scrape off the portion of the puree which always adheres to the reverse side of the hair, or wire. A cook must be patient in the use of this utensil, and achieve his object by perseverance, rather than by boisterous work. If you bear too heavily on the hair, your sieve will soon bulge, and ere long the hair will part company with the wooden cylinder to which it is attached. Purees, as soups, are prepared in this way:—You first must make as good a basin of stock as you can from bones, meat, scraps, (bones of ham and bacon especially valuable) sufficient for the number of people you have to cater for. Let it get cool and remove the fat that rises to its surface. You should flavour your stock to the best of your capabilities with dried sweet herbs, onion, parsley, a carrot or two, celery, &c., or such vegetables as may be available, with salt and pepper to taste. The better your stock, or found- ation, the better your puree. Suppose, now, that you want to make potage d la Cre'cy, which in plain terms is carrot puree :—boil as many carrots as you think will suffice for the quantity of soup you have to make, in salt and water, or broth if you can spare it: when thoroughly done, drain them, and pass them through the sieve. Now mix the pulp so obtained with sufficient of the stock to make a puree a little thinner than you wish your soup eventually to be. Melt a piece of butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan, and work a little flour into it, gradually adding the puree, and stirring without ceasing till the soup comes to the boil, when it will be found of the proper consistency. Skim if necessary, and serve. The pith of this recipe, and of all receipts for purees, lies m the melted butter and flour which must be worked into the40 CULIJ^Ji^r JOWIJIG-S FOI? MJlQIlflS. soup as described, and at the period indicated. Why ?—well, have you ever noticed carrot, or pea-soup, which, when sent to table, instead of looking the creamy red, or green puree that you desired, presented the appearance of a thin gravy soup, with a quantity of the vegetable pulp at the bottom of each basin—the stock and the pulp not having amalgamated ? This result was caused by the omission of the process I have described which is necessary to blend the two together. Crfoy soup should be served with bread cut into dice and fried in butter; or crisped on a buttered tin in the oven after having been soaked in a little of the stock. Croutons, treated V this way, should accompany all vege- table purees. Purees of celery, Jerusalem artichokes, (Palestine soup) onion, and turnips, if the stock be kept free from colour can be served as white soups, and cream, or the subs^^e described in Chapter VII, will be found an improvement to all of them. “Potage & la reine,” a very old white soup, is really a vurte of fowl, and an excellent white potage, very like it, can be produced from a rabbit That artistic entree'creme de volatile” is merely consolidated puree. The again, is only meat worked to that condition, and bou with bread crumb, or paste, and eggs. The puree of chestnuts is a well-known delicacy at elabo- rate ballets at home and abroad, whether in the form of soup oris a sauce to accompany white entrees and (especi- nllJ\ the turkev The Indian nut commonly known as the “ promotion nut” makes a capital puree if carefully treated anPdTdaiesay that the "ground nut” would well repay the trouble of a trial, in the same way. All green vegetable purees derive enrichment in appear- ance by the judicious addition of “spinach gieeni DSOlKP-JrfjlKIJTG—OOJVCLUQEQ). 41 which is in itself the liquor obtained from spinach boiled and worked through the sieve, and then squeezed through a piece of muslin. I have seen people quite deceived with a soup made with dried peas and coloured with “spinach greening” in imitation of puree cle pois verts. The enterprising cultivators of asparagus at Madras ought now and then to indulge their guests with that excellent soup "puree d’cisperges,” which, I take it, ranks next how- ever to the still more artistic ‘‘consomme aux points d’asperges.” You can make a capital green puree any day at Madras with French beans, and with one tin of petits pois (thought- fully assisted with spinach greening if the peas have lost colour) you can produce a very perfect puree of green peas tor about eight people. A very inviting-looking soup of bright colour can be made from tomatoes, following exactly the receipt for “ Crecy” and substituting tomatoes for carrots. Brown purees are, of course, those made of game such as hares, partridges, snipe, wild duck, teal, etc. In this way you can always advantageously dispose of tough old birds. A good puree de gibier, of hare, or of any game bird, is, without doubt, soup which is with justice widely popular. It is essentially the soup of the hungry man. A basin of it, to use a homely phrase, “ goes a long way.” It carries your thoughts back to winter fires, to old fashioned, yet generous fare, and to the glorious appetite with which you spread your napkin before you after a day with the hounds, a trudge after wild partridges, or a long drive through the keen frosty air of some by-gone Christmastide ! These soups are what housekeepers call “rich,” for in their composition you must employ port, or madeira, red currant jelly, cream, yolks of eggs, &c. One of the greatest cooks of the age propounds half a bottle of old port for his hare soup ! and all game soups take a goodly share of wine.42 CULlJlJiliY JOYYIJVG-S FOJ? JtJlQIUkB. 0 The points to observe in the making of these 'purees are, first, to get every atom of flavour you can out of the bones, scraps, and giblets, which is doue by simmering them watch- fully in stock; then to work all the meat you can pick from the birds to a stiff paste in a mortar (having first minced it in the machine) and pass it through the sieve to get rid of fibre, gristle, and so forth; next to blend the pulp of the game with the stock in the way I have previously described; and lastly, to follow with accuracy whatever recipe you have taken as regards the flavouring elements— don’t leave out anything if you can possibly manage it. Dried sweet herbs, (thyme and marjoram) are as necessary in game soups, as is basil in turtle; and red currant jelly is indispensable. Spice is also required in judicious propor- tions. As I intend to give detailed instructions for game purees in their turn in my menus, I will not pursue the subject any further in this chapter. Neither will I discuss the treatment of tinned soups just yet, for I shall reserve that branch of Indian soup-making for consideration hereafter in a chapter devoted to “Camp cookery.” I therefore consider our debate upon the general principles of soup- making at an end, and in my next I shall introduce the subject of fish.CHAPTER IPC. Regarding our Fish. a ISH, under skilful hands, offers,” says Brillat Savarin, “ inexhaustible resources of gustatory enjoyment; whether served up entire, in pieces, ; done in water, in oil, or in wine ; hot or cold ; in it receives a hearty welcome.” We who live at or sliced all cases Madras, on a coast which yields a perennial supply of good fish (to borrow a well known figure of speech) should surely lay these words to heart. With a market as fairly well supplied as ours, we ought never to be at a loss for variety, or for scope to exercise our cooks ingenuhy. The fair hostess should always be able to soothe herself with the reflection that with the fish, at all events, her guests will be well satisfied. Now, do we avail ourselves, as we ought to do, of the many opportunities we undoubtedly possess of turning Madras fish to a good i account ? I certainly think not: indeed I fear that only a ew of us appreciate the true value of this most valuable 1 article of our daily food. At the ordinary Madras dinner party, you may relv almost for certain on having boiled seer fish, with a sauce and a few slices of cucumber and beetroot on the side of your plate. Or the fish may be pomfret, similarly served.44 CULIJTJIIIY JOVVIJTGB FOX “Tartare” “hollanclaise,” and melted butter with essence of anchovy, compose apparently the whole repertoire of sauces within reach of the local chef. Now without wishing for one moment to question the sterling merits of the plain-boiled fish to which I have alluded, I confess that for a dinner party I strongly advocate dishes of a more artistic nature. There are so many easy recipes for cooking fish nicely, that an effort to produce a little novelty in this feature of the menu could scaicely result in failure. In England where you have many varie- ties of fishes, and some of the best of them only to be seen in the market during their especial seasons, a little sameness in the style of cooking may not perhaps strike you may boil and fry plainly every day m the week if each day you are able to present a diffeient fish. . , usV Madras. Our supply is good enoughu but .it kcta diversity - and it is on this account particulaily that i a anxious^o direct the attention of my readers to a few easy ways Of Sieving the monotony which I have pointed out. It may be urged that your fish is brought home from market too late in the evening for the successful accompl - ment of studied effects, and perhaps your butler will take pains to thrust that fact before you. Regard such an exc^ ^ please, as a mere evasion, for, m point of fact, fis> ffice short a time to dress thoroughly, that an houi s for the most elaborate recipe^ I always bear time which is necessary for the production of the dishe select for my menus. A wain many people hesitate to offer their guests a dish of d^sfeTfiX fearing* that it nhght be —^ met ods rnu:, :s absurd for there are plain, as well as ncu of varying this branch of co^ery iumnony ^vTth^the soup nienu you should select one 1 1 T'bns- which precedes, and entree which is to 0 o • if your soup be of a thick creamy kind and 3 om entree (say) a vol au vent, let the fish be seivea m 1I^ECrftltGpiJVG- OUIt FISH. A5 iced, and with sauce ravigotte or tartare. But if you give a clear consomme delicately flavoured, and order an iced entree to succeed the fish, you can indulge in a “ matelotte aux champignonsor seer “ d la creme de cu- vettes’’ A thick soup, fish with lobster sauce, followed by an entree with cream in its composition, would form, for instance, a combination of good things obviously inartistic in design, and one which few could enjoy with impunity. As I observed in an early chapter of my “jottings,” the charm of a dinner according to the new regime consists in the harmony of its lights and shadows. Fish, we all know, I hope, may be boiled, fried, baked, stewed or grilled ; and by every method can tasty dishes be prepared. I will begin with the principles to be observed in boiling fish, and take the other styles of cookery in the order I have named. After having thoroughly cleansed, and wiped the fish, rub it over with a little vinegar, and place it on the strainer of the fish-kettle, so that when done it may be lifted out without risk of breaking up. Put plenty of salt, and a dessert spoonful of vinegar, into the water in which the fish is to be boiled. Let the water be cold, and in sufficient quantity to cover the fish. Place the kettle on a brisk fire, and boil the fish as fast as pos- sible. Skim off all scum that rises, and take care to i suspend operations, the moment the fish is done. Over- boiled fish is nasty to eat, and ugly to look upon : under- done fish is unfit for human food. The cookeiy books allow ten minutes per pound as a fair average of the time required for this operation; but so much depends upon the thickness of the fish to be boiled, that the cook should test it now and then with the point of a skewer, and as soon as the flesh parts easily from the bone, let him decide that it is ready. Never let your fish, after it is done, remain soaking in the water in which it has been cooked; drain it at once, or46 CULT}IJII{Y JOYYIJVG-S FOR JAfiQiyiS. it will become what cooks calls “ woolly.” If ready too soon, let it rest on the drainer over the hot kettle, and cover it with a napkin. If you have no fish-kettle, put your fish on a dish, tie a napkin round it, and boil it: when done you can then lift the dish out of the pan without spoiling the appear- ance of the fish. Be very particular to drain every drop of water from the fish before you serve it, or the sauce you send up with it will be ruined. Connoisseurs in the art of fish cookery recommend that it should be boiled in a “ Court bouillon;’ in which case the process is thus described by the G. C. “ Having placed the fish in the fish-kettle with enough cold water to cover it, add a glass of vinegar, some slices of carrots and onions, and a clove of garlic ; then sweet herbs, and spices tied up in a muslin bag, with pepper, salt, and parsely or celery. The proportions of all these must depend upon the quan- tity of fish to be boiled, the skill of the cook, and the taste of the company.” When done, lift the fish drainer from the fish-kettle, drain it, and keep it hot over the kettle till the moment of serving. A. mixture of wine and water, or milk and water in equal parts may be used instead ot the vinegar and water. The art of frying fish consists in being prodigal in the use of the medium which you employ to cook with. I he fash should be absolutely immersed in a bath of boiling fat 01 oil, which should be carefully tested so that you may be convinced of its temperature. “ If your fat be not suffi- ciently heated,” says the authority I have already quoted^ « the fish you want to fry will turn out a flabby and greasy mess, instead of a crisp, appetising dish.” For nearly all fish-frying the frying basket is an invaluable utensil, used, of course,°in conjunction with the deep-sided saute pan. Fish, fried in the English fashion, is generally egged,^ and bread-crumbed ; the Italians, who are perhaps the best irj -47 J?EGfilft2)IJTG 0172? FISH. sters’ in the world, either flour their fish, or dip it in batter ; both methods are, to my mind, vastly superior to the bread- crumbing process. If, however, you must use crumbs see that they are stale, and well sifted ; not the pithy lumps, both great and small, too often set before you, because Raraasamy will not look ahead, and rarely, if ever keeps a bottled supply of stale, well rasped bread in hand. Under the head of baking we come to that very excellent method of treating fish which is familiar to most of you as “ cut gratin.” The cook can, in this way, produce very pleasant results, with very little toil. You can commence as plainly as possible, and go on to the most elaborate and fanciful dishes, the principles in all being similar. The fish, to begin with, should either be whole, in fillets, or slices. The pie dish should be well buttered ; tomatoes, maccaroni, mushrooms, truffles of course, finely-minced parsley, shallot, lime peel, and such fines herbes as you can command, should be used for the more elaborate compositions, whilst parsley, shallot, and butter alone with fine bread-crumbs will suffice for the plainer dish for ordinary occasions. A gravy made from the bones and trimmings, with a few pepper corns, a minced shallot and a glass of any light white wine, like chablis, hock, or sauterne, may be gently poured round your dish when it is packed ready for the oven : but the liquid, ought never to come up to the level, quite, of the top layer of the fish in the pie dish. In connection with maccaroni and tomatoes, you should try a dusting of grated parmesan. Olives farcies, rolled anchovies, and prawns, form, with truffles, and mushrooms, the most appropriate garnish for an artistic “ au gratin,” and cream is often judiciously introduced to enrich the combination. Fishes baked whole, and carefully stuffed are generally . veiv well suited to fresh water fish, and a delicious way of cooking a Madras mullet, or a dish of whitings. OA# CTJLTJVJIIIY JOttlJiG-S FOR JAJlQIlfiS. The best dish of stewed fish is the matelotte which, strictly speaking, should be composed of eels, but may, I think, be equally well followed in dressing any firm fleshed fish. As I shall speak of this dish in my menus, I need only say en passant that it is rich, vinous, spicy, and consequently gene- rally appreciated by the muscular Christian. Broiling fish sounds simple, but under this head there are a few°toothsome recipes not to be despised. Let a good cut of seer be divided into nice cutlets, parboiled in the morning, and set to marinade all day in salad oil, minced shallot parsley, vinegar, a clove of garlic, a few whole pepper corns, Ind a little lime peel: take them out, wrap them in well-oiled papers, broil over a fast cleai hie, and serve with a nice sharp brown sauce like sauce Robert. Take care that the bars of your grid-iron are well oiled 01 they are apt to burn delicate morsels like fillets of fish en papillotes. Having thus sketched the various ways of preparing fish for the table, I must request my readers to note the lecipes I have given in my detailed menus, remembering that my obj”t Sns been to suggest dishes, winch m my humble nniniou will be found more pleasing than the ordinaly plainly boiled lumps of fish, which, with certain stereotype concomitants, too often greet the diner out in Madras.CHAPTER RSI. . Hints about Entrees. INE persons out of every ten with whom I converse on culinary matters seem to be more exercised in their minds regarding their entrees, than about the whole of the arrangement of their dinner put together. ~he leally presentable side-dishes that the average Eama- samy can master may, as a rule, be counted ; I am told, upon the fingers of one hand: and these are generally so well known that a lady is oft times at her wit’s end to compose her menu. So precious, indeed, has the knowledge of a new emtree become, that the happy mistress of a novelty micdit be fairly excused were she to refuse to divulge the secret*to ei dearest friend. It must be a humiliating sensation, I a Jmit, after having eaten oyster patties with your friend on With^m/0 bTK01'Cod t0 bld hlm Partake 0f the Same dish Vth you°n ihursday ; conscious perhaps, that the pastrv at your house is not a whit better than that which vou • ou^ ,nfbfferent at his. The oyster patty by the way is one of Ramasamy’s few art studies. ^ Now I cannot but allow that the apprehension with which this part of the bill-of-fare is so generally regard lZtL2nX:n\ n&trl Thrare’ -S our reachfn fpb gh f f6W may be easy> some are beyond oui i each in this country owing to a variety of reasons- and many, owing to the ambiguous wording of cookery book 5so CULIJVJiZiY JOZZIJTG-S F02? J/LJKDiyiB. receipts, seem equally inaccessible. Then the task of order- ing dishes from works composed for people with English cooks kitchen ranges, and the best market in the world at their ’ disposal, is far from easy. Even those who fancy themselves to be pretty good cooks find, every now and then, in the paces of their pet author, knotty points which require much consideration to settle. But if you will patiently follow me, not rushing to the conclusion that I only write for the benefit of a few enthusiasts like myself, 1 firmly believe that I shall be able to smooth down much that armears rugged: and help you towards the selection and accomplishment of many tasty dishes, which if neither elaborate, nor very scientific, will still be found certainly practicable, and generally worthy of a second trial. First, let' us divide entries into three distinct classes the plain, the half-rich, and the fanciful. In the first class 1 would place such dishes as the mutton cutlet (neck chop) grilled or stewed; the epigramme; fillets of meat, turkey, fnwl rabbit or pigeon ; grenadins ; and all entrees of meat Tooked* accompanied by carefully devised sauces, or really good parks of vegetable. For class the second T would reserve all compositions of meat requiring t e miSg machine and the" mortar,-delicate combinations •which “demand attentive flavouring—such as croquettes, Ostades, quenelles, boudins, timbales, mssolettesmi mixed ZtStsln eaisses. Whilst in the superlative class should bAmtered I think, the supreme, the vol-au-vent, the l be enteiea, i ' > ranout the artistic salmi, and any rSut o class^he second when raised from its ordinary form to » higher level by treatment a la financiere, a la reine, d la Pdrigueux, and so on. attract attention, whilst for providing contrast and otbe reasons I shall speak of presently, it is invaluable.51 HIJtfES MOU<Z EJTXIIEES. Having thus arranged the various dishes which come under the head of entrees in a systematic form, the task of selection therefrom must be governed by the sort of dinner you intend to give, the different items that compose your menu, and the capabilities of your cook. As a rule, jmu should generally, for the sake of contrast, select one dish from class one, and the other from either class two, or three; or an iced entree followed by one from either of the two richer classes. Never attempt to give more than two entrees, be your dinner a banquet for forty covers, or a party of eight friends. The menu of the best mess dinner I ever attended in India (given to a late Governor of Madras whose taste in culinai’y matters was proverbial) contained but one iced, and one elaborate entree. These were of course served separately, and to provide against delay, there were (for forty guests) four dishes formed of each composition. In ordering your entrees you should carefully consider the amount of work your cook will have upon his hands at the critical time of serving them, and bear in mind that the more he has to do then, the more likely will he be to make mistakes. How can it be expected that a cook can serve equally well two hot entries demanding attentive manipulation up to the last moment ? Select, therefore, for one of your side- dishes something that can be prepared beforehand and easily heated when required, so that your chefs attention need not be distracted from the other. On these grounds t le iced entree is a grand invention : it can be made early in the day, and then set in the ice-box, ready to follow the fash without delay, and the sauce can also be similarly tieated. Dishes that merely require heating in the oven i are a godsend to a cook, for he can compose them at his leisure during the afternoon, and put them aside till within i ^ lew minutes of the time when they are wanted, keeping their sauces nice and hot in the bain-marie pan. But the unhappy man who has (say) to turn out a dish of cutlets & la Maintenon, with delicately grilled kramouskys auxCULIJTJIIIY JOX<nF&B -FOi? JIflQIiflS. 52 huitres to follow—independently of game, joint, sweets, &c., all needing a watchful eye—is surely to be pitied. There is another point to watch when choosing your entrees, and that is their general relationship with each other, or with the other dishes that compose your menu. Artists in ordering dinners go as tar as to say that nothing should be repeated : you must not give, tor instance, a consomme de volaille and presently tollow it with croquettes de volaille, or even fowl as a joint: mutton appearing in a side-dish must not be seen again in any form. Two white meats ought not to be introduced side by side. Though fol- lowing this maxim to the best of our power, we cannot always rely on being able to carry it out thoroughly in Madias. The market °supply is too meagre, at the present time especially, for us to pick and choose as we might wish. Why, I have even lieard of a lady in tears for want of a tuikey, and of another sighing in vain for a pair of young ducks ! To return to our class list of entries, I cannot too strongly uro-e you to go in for dishes from class one moie than you do. Can anything be more acceptable than a nice juicy little chop from a neck of mutton, on whose sides the marks of the grid-iron are plainly visible, reposing against a circle of really well-mashed potatoes, or of savoury rice, homing in its centre a purde of celery, petits pois, or sauce soubise. The grid-iron is invaluable: the chop comes to table lull ot oravy, yet not underdone; it has, to use a kitchen phiase, ‘‘seen the fire” (browned) in places, and is absolutely free from grease which so often mars a dish of chops cooked in the frying pan. For the little Club-dinner this class of entrde is always popular. I noticed that a plain cutlet such as I have described, or a plain fillet of beef, figured in almost every Club menu, I had the pleasure of discussing at home last year. Endless variety can be secured by the cook if he will change his sauce or his puree. Choose the neck chops for these entrees. The fillet of mutton is that tender strip of meat which runs down the inside of the saddle under the kidne). oHI]V<?S JlgOTJ<? EJT<?%EE8. S3 sufficient thickness, this delicate morsel, broiled over a clear fire, is worthy of Lucullus himself. It is the thing for an invalid, or one coming round after an illness. The fillet of beef is the undercut of the sirloin, which the butcher will cut out for you in the market here if you wish it, but I have found good fillets produced thus:—buy a really good joint of the ribs of beef, and cut out length-waj's the good tender meat near the end of the bone, with any fat there may be attached to it. Bones, and flap, and trimmings can be counted in the allowance of soup-meat, and the tender meat you have cut out will trim into capital fillets for entrees or cook whole as a Jilet de bceuf, 'pique with anything you like, as a joint. Fillets of fowls and game are formed by cutting off neatly the whole of the breast meat right down to the wing joint; this you can divide into fillets according to the size you lequire. The hare and rabbit fillet is produced by cutting out the long strip of good meat which runs down either side of the back bone: well larded with fat bacon, and cooked grenadm fashion, with Espagnole or sauce soubise you may do worse than present a dish of these fillets to yourCHAPTER Entrees—continued. WHETHER your entree be a fillet of beef or mutton, of f*Wl fowl or of game, or the neatly trimmed neck chop -4j1 t0 which X have alluded; and whether you intend to grill to stew, or to fry it, you will find it vastly imP[°^d by belli" set en marinade from early morning until t time draws near for cooking it. I shall use th^sw°rMie" quently in my menus, let me therefore explain its mea as applied to the process which I now take the opportum y of noticing. be tetter to describe it as * = ’ it - mediate effect is to preserve the outside ot the; me< has “ felt the knife” moist and juicy to onrl tn lend that subtle flavour to it—so hard to descn bnt which lust makes the difference between our ordinary a really well educated cook. The common form of marinade for beef and mutton is composedof1 salad oil and vinegar inthe proportmn of four of the former to one of the lattei, ^rt55 EJT 'TIIEE 8— C OJT 5C1JJ UE (E>. cloves of garlic chopped up, some whole peppers, a few cloves, a tea spoonful of salt, a couple of tea spoonsful of dried thyme or marjoram, a table spoonful of minced parsley, and a strip or two of lime peel. This mixture can be preserved for daily use, with slight additions from time to time, and the flavour can be modified by changing the sweet herbs, or withdrawing them. The taste of game can be imparted to mutton by placing the meat in a marinade of vinegar, portwine, and walnut ketchup—(a wine glass of each)—in which a table spoonful of red currant jelly has been dissolved; with a pinch of ground spice, some pepper corns, salt, a chopped onion and a dessert spoonful of marjoram and thyme blended. A hash of cold- mutton collops that have lain a few hours in this preparation is very like that of venison, and the fillets of an Indian hare, (a little underdone in the roasting) similarly steeped all day, are really excellent. In this particular instance you must strain the marinade, and add it to the gravy in which the hash or fillets have to be simmered. Marinade need not be made in extravagant quantities ; it should cover the bottom of the dish on which you place the meat, your object being gained by occasional turning, and basting. When wanted, the cook should lift the meat from the dish, let it drain a minute or so, and then proceed to business. Independently of the method in which you purpose to cook them, a great deal depends upon the careful trimming of a dish of mutton cutlets. How uninviting do these miniature chops look when they have been cut anyhow from the joint to which they belonged ? First, saw off the ends of the row of bones level, and cut off the outer flap.; now take a very sharp knife, and divide the row of cutlets down to the bone with one clean decided cut between each of'them, and, lastly, sever them with a single stroke of the chopper. Now lay them on your board, and give them a few strokes with your cutlet bat, trim them into shape, and then place them in the marinade. The hungry man may be able, no doubt, to eat the cutlets his cook may send§6 CULTJTJ1IIY JOYYIJTaS FOIt him, “ rough hew them as he may,” but for an entree we must study appearance. A cutlet to be grilled should be dipped at once in a little melted butter, or salad oil and broiled over a clear fire. If to be stewed, it should be first browned by being turned fre- quently in a pan with a little melted butter; the pre- viously prepared gravy should then be added, in which the cutlet should simmer gently till done. The whole success of a stew depends upon the simmering. If the cook carelessly allow the pan to come to the boil, the cutlets (or anything else) will be done for. How often are hashes, and rechauffes of cold meat sent to table as hard and tasteless as leather, simply because the cook permitted them to boil ? Hashes and salmis of cold meat and game may be defined, properly speaking, as carefully composed sauces in which meat is placed cold, and then gradually heated until sufficiently hot to serve. My own rule with a salmi is to take it off the fire as soon as the steam rises freely from the surface, to turn it immediately into a silver dish heated with scalding water, and send it up. The process of bread-crumbing a cutlet deserves far more care than a great majority of cooks bestow upon it. To do this really nicely (for an entree) you should proceed in this way: lift your cutlet from the marinade, drain it a moment, then dip it into the following composition two eggs, one dessert spoonful of salad oil, one dessert spoonful of water, well beaten together, and turn it over and over in a plateful of fine, stale bread-crumbs which have been dried in the oven pounded, and thoroughly silted ; it should then be laid aside for half an hour, after which it should be dipped again, and again rolled in crumbs. Amongst the crumbs may be sprinkled some finely minced parsley and shallot, with some powdered dried sweet herbs. The frying should be conducted in abundance of boiling fat, and the colour of the cutlets should be a pale golden brown. All thrifty cooks should carefully save the scraps of trim- mings, the outer flap, and the ends of bone which were cut57 EJV<TI?EES—C0JV<FIJ7 UE(D. off in shaping the cutlets, for from them the basis of the sauce which is to accompany the dish can, with a little assistance, be composed. Having thus discussed the general methods of cooking cutlets, and fillets, we ought next to consider a few good sauces to accompany them, but as I have resolved to devote a chapter to that branch of the cook’s art, I must ask you to follow me now in a brief resume of wrinkles regarding the higher classes of entrees. Under class the second we come to that very useful style of entree which I have called the “ half-rich.” For these “ made-dishes” you begin to call to your aid the mincing machine and mortar, and, unless your experience be above the average, success will almost wholly depend upon your following with accuracy every line of the recipe you may select. A well-flavoured rissolette, croquette, boudin, or quenelle, if nicely cooked, and served with a good sauce a purte, or a macedoine de legumes, is worthy of a place in any menu ; but the slightest slovenly work is fatal. Our good friend Kamasawmy has been taught to believe that cutlets must be composed of chopped meats, so he is wont to. send to table pretty often under that title a dish of rissolettes, with a fragment of bone inserted in each of them. I need hardly remind my readers, for instance, of the dish of “ chicken cutlets” which form the standing plat of the Madras Hotel. I know that some cookery books describe as cotelettes certain artistic mixtures of meats, with bits of bone introduced to make them look like true cutlets, but I would prefer calling such dishes by their proper names, for they undoubtedly belong really to the tribe of croquettes, rissoles, &c., &c. Chicken, ox and sheep’s tongues, tender mutton, ham, bacon, oysters, pigeons, turkey, rabbit, the livers of all poultry, of rabbits, and game,—whether previously cooked or not, provide materials out of which these entrees can be made. It is in the judicious blending of two or more58 OULIJJJIIIY JOWWG-S FOi? JAJIQW- of them together, in the thorough pounding and incorpora- tion thereof, in the selection of the condiments he employs to improve them, and so on, that the skill of the good cook can be detected. If you preserve your own ox tongues in this country, and keep one generally ready for use, you will have a very valuable thing to fall back upon for “ made ’ entrees: cured sheep’s tongues, too, are very useful, and a little lamb s liver is sometimes a good thing to have at hand in case of need. Calves’ liver cut into dice, and fried with some shallot in the pan in which some fat bacon has been melted, then set to get cold, and pounded in the mortar, forms the well known minced meat which surrounds a pate de foie gras and all French pdtes. The frying-pan should be rubbed with garlic before operations are commenced and some minced onion should go in with the liver: if you add to the mix- ture when pounded the minced trimmings of any truffles you may have been using, the flavour will be exactly that of the pate. A little jar of this composition, made at home, will be found well worth the trouble it costs to make, when you are preparing (say) a dish of croquettes de volaille and want to improve the flavour of them. The same hints I have given regarding the bread-crumb- ing of mutton cutlets, hold good with reference to the crumb- ing of croquettes. If possible, indeed, you should be more particular in preparing your crumbs. Bread crisped in the oven and then pounded in the mortar produces the chapeiuie used by French cooks. The sauces of this kind of entice require the utmost study, and will be treated of hereafter. Touching the highest class of entrees it is impossible to say very much in the way of advice. You must go in fora little more expense than you did in classes one and two. Butter, cream, truffles, mushrooms, special gravy meat &c must not be shirked, but be given to the cook with a, hberal hand. As your Goufffl bids you, so must you proceed with- out a murmur.CHAPTER ZSLXI. » Entrees—concluded. E do our utmost to give our guests, here in sultry Madras, a vol au vent, when we should know quite well that it is impossible to produce the exquisitely light puff pastry from which the dish derives its name. The best attempts present the appearance of layers of talc laid one over the other in an oval shape and baked a pale brown. Now, I maintain that it would be better to give up our fruitless efforts, and employ one of the ornamental earthen- ware dishes made specially for this purpose, and to be had of all good dealers in glass and crockery in London. Small ones for dishes en caisses are also sold. We could then send up pur ragout d la financiere, or d la reine, without mis- givings, in a pretty dish becomingly garnished, and bury the unhappy memories of the puff paste we never could achieve. Whilst thus proposing to abandon as fruitless our at- tempts to place before our guests a true vol au vent,— conquered by the climate in which we live, and not through carelessness or want of culinary skill,—I by no means wish to say that we should cease to bestow our atten- tion upon entries which can be made of pastry of a less volatile nature. There are some Madras cooks, I know, who can turn out very good light 'paid pastry. To such men you can entrust, of course, petits pate's, timbales, salpicon vouchees, and those artistic croustades for which pastry is60 CULIfTji^Y JOYYTfTGB FOU JtiJlQOIUlS. • employed instead of the easier substitute of hollowed-out rolls. The knack of making nice light pastry is, however, far from common. Neither reading, nor even practical demonstration, will teach it; so unless you are certain that your cook possesses the gift, never permit him to waste good materials in idle experiments. An entree of pastry, .if not unmistakably good, is a blot upon the face of your menu. In nearly all recipes for high class entries contained in good works upon cookery, the use of butter is unsparingly advocated, and cream is also very frequently prescribed. In an early chapter of my jottings, I mentioned that I would far sooner recommend a little extra expense with regard to these items, than in the distribution of elaborate “ Europe stores,” I repeat the opinion emphatically now. The dinner cooked with an adequate allowance of cream and butter, requires but little aid from Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell. Unfortunately, however, for those who desire to follow this precept at Madras, our supply of milk is meagre in quality and quantity, and absurdly expensive. The only way to obtain a little butter fit to eat, if }Tou do not maintain a dairy of your own, is to have a cow milked at your door, and to set the milk so obtained for cream in your own larder. I have never tried to find out the exact cost of a pound of butter thus made, but, approxi- mately speaking, it may be stated that five measures of milk at one rupee (the current rate) will not. yield more than a good third of a pound, so your pound of butter will cost you nearly three rupees! There will be a slight difference if the milk be rich; in my estimate, I speak of course, of the average country cow’s milk purchased at the door. There is a terrible preparation which milkmen sell to our cooks under the title of “kitchen butter.” To add to its attractiveness, it is generally smeared upon a leaf, and carried in the hand! It looks like the compound used for61 JBJT<3‘I{EEB—00JTCLUg>E@. greasing the wheels of Railway carriages in England, which a porter once told a friend of mine was “ mostly made of ingredunts, and stuff as ive makes up a'purpose.” I fear that our so-called “kitchen butter” might be equally vaguely described. What, then, can people of moderate incomes do ? For, I take it that even wealthy folk at home would hesitate to pay sis shillings a pound for the butter used by their cooks ! The most economical remedy for this evil is to use preserved butter; the “Copenhagen” (cow brand), “Normandy” and “Denmark” at one rupee fourteen annas a pound-tin, are especially free from brine, or taint of any kind, and can be thoroughly recommended. For this invaluable wrinkle, I am indebted to a friend who is well known at Madras as an accomplished cook. One tin, carefully used, ought to suffice for the cooking of a dinner for eight persons, (assum- ing even that the menu contain a full amount of dishes requiring butter in their composition) and, in my humble opinion, the result will generally be found to justify that amount of extravagance. p Before I pass from the consideration of side dishes to that of the sauces that should accompany them, I feel it incumbent upon me to point out that vegetables ought never to be handed round with the entrees. This quaint practice of our fore- fathers has been long since abandoned by those who oiye dinners of the reformed type. The modern entree is, of course, presumed to be a plat complete in itself, and perfectly independent of other assistance. When stated in the menu, a vegetable may of course, accompany an entree, but it should be deftly asso- ciated with the composition it accompanies, and be moulded in the same dish. A great many entrees require no vegetables. Who, for instance, could possibly eat potato and cauliflower with a hramousicy or with a petit pate d la financiers ? The crisp batter in the former, and the pastry 662 CTJLTpflllY JOYXIJfGS FOIt in the latter case, supply the necessary accompaniment of the delicate composition each contains. Apart from its being palpably inartistic, there is another reason which prompts the abolition of sending round vege- tables with entrees, and that is the time that is wasted in doing so, and the complication it adds to the service. Whilst the matter of fact objection to the practice is, that by the time they are really wanted for the joint, they are certainly mangled and cold, if not wholly expended; for few people prepare relays of potatoes, &c., to follow those sent up with their side dishes. Lastly, let me say a few words about the garnishing and helping of entrees. As a general rule, our native cooks, assisted I dare say by the butler, are much given to the ornamentation of their side dishes. Now, whilst fully prepared to pander as much as possible to the “ lust of the eye,” I warn you to be careful lest these efforts to make things look pretty be over- done. Slices of raw cucumber should be severely interdicted, for they impart an inky flavour to the entree they may be trimmed round; and funny devices cut out of vegetables, and dotted about a dish, should be forbidden, for they sug- gest to the hypercritical mind an idea that perhaps fingers have been busily employed in arranging them. Pray do not permit your cook to garnish a rissole with a raw spring onion, (the green stem stripped and curled, and the bulb thrust into the rissole). I have seen this done at Madras, and once upon a time barely escaped eating the onion, which would have been a sad catastrophe, seeing that I had a most agreeable companion by my side. Let the arrangement of your entrees err on the side of simplicity rather than otherwise. Dishes that require careful helping ought certainly never to be handed round at a dinner party. I have observed that ladies frequently refuse an entree on account of the difficulty of helping themselves. A fair patroness of mineEJJZI?EES—COJ?CLUCpE@. 63 here, whose manage is worthy of her artistic skill, tells me that she has made up her mind (and rightly, say I,) never to permit her admirable mayonnaise d la Oouffe' to be handed round to her guests again. One person, she says, would take a little of the aspic, the next some of the salad, the third—engaged, perhaps, in pleasant chatter, with a pair of bright eyes full upon him—might absently secure a frag- ment of the garnish ! and so on, all in heart-rending igno- rance of the science and care bestowed upon the dish. Under any circumstances I strongly recommend that all iced entrees be helped from the side table, with a portion of the sauce upon each plate, and passed round to your guests without delay; for, however firm the mould may be when it is presented to guest number one, by the time it reaches number eight, liquidation is certain to have set in. Speedy helping at the side table will prevent this. I even go as far as to sajT that all entrees might be thus served with manifest advantage. The menu card in front of you tells you what is coming, and in this way you would be spared, at all events, the unpleasantness of having a hot silver dish with its savoury contents thrust in between you and the lady you have taken in to dinner; conversation would never be annoyingly interrupted; pretty costumes and dress coats would be less liable to be baptised with hot gravy, whilst much valuable time would be saved.CHAPTBK XIII. About Sauces in general. the HE consideration of sauces may certainly be regarded as the most interesting part of the study of cookery: so much, indeed, is to be gained by this branch of art, that I might almost call it the most important. Whether for fish, for flesh, or fowl, the assistance thus con- tributed is invaluable. Without penetrating very deeply into the mazes of elaborate cookery, if you once master the broad principles of sauce-making, you need never be at a loss for variety in your dishes; you will be able to improve good meat, and make that which is indifferent palatable, whilst with cold things you will rarely fail to turn out little rechauffes which will be at once tasty, and economical. Now I do not consider it a difficult thing to teach a native cook the fundamental rules of this part of his work, for they are simple. The labour is so slight that, if sufficiently devoted to your task, you can select a recipe and absolutely show the man step by step how to carry it out. For a demonstration of this kind you must, of course, order all the ingredients you may require beforehand,and have a fire made in a sheltered verandah, or spare room. The trouble this may cost you will, in nine cases out of ten, be amply repaid, for with the native mind practical proof is far more effective than theoretical discussion. For sauce-making in general you must possess thiee small sauce-pans in sizes, a bain-marie pan to set them in, twoJlgOTJ1? SAUCES rj<r G-EJTEItjIL. 65 wooden spoons, a flour dredger, a couple of earthen ware hovels, a block tin perforated strainer with handle, a wire sieve, a hair sieve, and a mortar. The materials you will call into play from time to time will be :—butter, flour, eggs, pepper, salt, onions, limes, a few cloves of garlic, mixed spices, the contents of your cruet stand, say:—“Harvey,” and mushroom ketchup; anchovy, chilli, tarragon, and French vinegars; and mustard, with pickled gerlcins, capers, and red-currant jelly. Made gravy, or stock, will occasionally be wanted, for which special provision must be made, but for ordinary sauces you can generally manage to make enough broth from scraps and trimmings. In doing this you have the consolation of knowing that there is nothing wasted. Sundry spoonsful of wine will be necessary now and then, and if you wander be}7ond the rubicon of moderation to the realms of high art, you will naturally ask for truffles, cocks- combs, cream, mushrooms, and olives. Of all writers upon cookery none has dealt more clearly with the subject of sauces than Jules Gouffe. His work may appear difficult to understand in places, and his recipes may seem frequently composed upon too large a scale to be useful to mistresses of small establishments, but in the system he has adopted with regard to this important featuie of kitchen work, he has hit the right nail upon the head. He classes as fundamental “sauces,—from which nearly the whole category may be said to have sprung, those^ well known names Espagnole, Veloule, Allemande, Bechamel and Poivvade,• and even of these the first two may be considered as the parents of the rest, f heie are nevertheless several standing sauces which may be spoken of independently; for instance, melted butter, ollandaise, soubise, maitrc d’ hotel, bread sauce, mayon- naise, tartare, remoulade, ravigotte, Robert, piquante, &c. Let us take these first, for they are perhaps more simple and. oftener in request than Espagnole, veloute, and their various descendants. Failure in the composition of melted butter (sauce blanche) is so common, that I will commence with a few hints with65 OULIJT^RY JOWipaS FOI? JAJtQIlfiB. regard to that homely preparation. The pith of this sauce consists in melting your lump of butter first at the bottom of your sauce-pan, then to add the flour, which soon ama ga- inates with the melted butter, and then the water or milk and water (boiling) with a pinch of salt. Work this well with a wooden spoon till it is soft and creamy to look upon, and, as you serve it, add a pat of fresh butter the size of a rupee, which will, of course, melt of its own accord and give that ‘ buttery’ flavour which you desire—not that noui - and-watery’ one so suggestive of the composition you wou employ for fixing scraps in an album. From this sauce blanche yrou can work out several tasty lecipes given y the “ G. C.” as follows Beat up the yolk of an egg, and the juice of a couple of limes; strain and add to your melted butter just befote serving; off the fire mind, or the sauce will cuidle. Beat up the yolk of an egg with a table spoonful of cream, and add in the same way. Throw in just before serving some minced parsley, fennel, or chopped capers, and you will have -.—sauce au persil, sauce au fenouil, or sauce aux capres. Stir into it after it is made, a dessert spoonful of anchovy, Harvey, ketchup, or any sauce you like. Flavour a little milk by boiling up in it some minced onion a tiny bit of garlic, a few cloves, a blade of mace, and some parsley : when well flavoured, strain the milk thiough muslin and add it to your melted butter. A squeeze of a lime maybe judiciously added to this sauce aux fines hei N B —Fillets of pomfret, or any fish that you can fillet nicely, boiled gently in milk thus flavoured, with the same poured over them when done, are excellent. Small rings of sliced gerkins added to plain melted butter form the sauce aux cornichons you remember abroad a tea spoonful of tarragon vinegar should accompany the nnDs.J1£0U<? SAUCES J7V G-EJTEIIJ1L 67 Melted butter for sweet entremets sucb as cabinet pud- ding, et hoc genus omne, should be made exactly in the same •way with sugar instead of salt, with milk, or milk and water, and an egg beaten up in brandy or sherry. Maitre d’hotel is butter plainly melted with a bountiful sup- ply of finely minced parsley, a half pinch of grated nutmeg, finished with the yolk of an egg, and a squeeze of lime juice. Maitre d’hotel butter, I may add 'par parenthese is made thus:—To two ounces of fresh butter, add the juice of one lime, a dessert spoonful of chopped parsley free from moisture, a little white pepper, and a pinch of salt. Form it with your butter bat, and set it in the ice box. A nice juicy, grilled chop, or a little grilled fillet of beef, served with a piece of maitre d’hotel butter melting over it, is a French method of captivating the appetite. By adding broth or stock to sauce blanche you produce sauce blonde which forms the basis of several useful sauces. The pulp of some well boiled Bombay onions passed thiough the sieve, and worked into sauce blonde (with a spoonful of cream for high days and holidays) gives you sauce soubise. Equal portions of boiled carrot, French beans, turnip or knolkhol, peas, asparagus points, and a little beetroot, cut into dice, and gently heated in sauce blonde, form that charm- ing assistance to a dish of grilled cutlets or any plain entree, called macedoine de legumes. Be careful not to mash the vegetables, so do not overboil them in the first instance. . \ Heie is a delicious variation of sauce soubise : cut up two parboiled Bombay onions, and put them into a sauce-pan with a good sized pat of butter, a pinch of sugar, and a pinch ot salt; add a table spoonful of previously boiled rice or pearl barley; let them cook slowly, and when the onions are done, add a table spoonful of finely grated mild cheese (Barmesan for choice), stir the mixture, pass it through a6g CULTP^RY JOYYIJVG-S FOR JiJkQl&B. sieve, and mingle it with a little rich sauce blonde, or with boiling cream for your birthday, wedding day, or the christening day of your first baby. There is no sauce more popular with judges of good food than Hollandaise; in perfection it is a grand sauce, and not very easy to make. In its homely form it may be described as sauce blanche, to which a few yolks of eggs have been added, and a squeeze of lime juice in its more elaborate treatment it becomes a custard of yolks of eggs, water, vinegar or lime juice, and butter Some are in favor of vinegar, others prefer lime juice, which they work thus . —Beat up the yolks of three eggs in a little water in which some pounded allspice has been dissolved, add salt to. taste, and about three ounces of fresh butter. Put this mixture into a small sauce-pan, and plunge it into a bain mane pan, or stewpan large enough to receive it, full of boiling watei . steam your mixture in this way till it thickens, and stir in your lime juice to finish with. Gouffd’s recipe may be con- densed in this way -.-reduce twotable spoonsful aboutTtea with a little salt and pepper added to it, till about a tea spoonful remains strain, and add to it two table spoonsfu of water, two yolks of eggs; put this on the fire heaUt thoroughly, stirring it well with a wooden spoon, add }ou butter “(four ounces by degrees,) with a little water now an then to prevent its curdling: this process had better be carried out in a bain marie pan, for you thus obtain the amount of gentle heat which is necessary to preserve tl sauce in a velvety condition. Those capital compositions Mayonnaise. Tai'taro. Remou- lade Ravirotte, &c„ are better known as cold sauces, but theie •ire hot forms of preparing Tartare and the two last named not often presented. They are descended from sawe muante which is simply made ii this way :-Fry in melted butter some minced onion with some chopped parsley, «lery kaves garden cress, and one clove of garlic; and °f » gol^n hue add equal "parts of vinegar, and water, or broth andfiBOTJZ SJITJOEB IJT G-EJTERJIL. 69 vinegar, strain, and serve hot. Some chopped truffles, gerkins, capers, or mushrooms may be added with good effect, and a spoonful of ketchup, or “ Harvey” is often given to it. For hot Tartare add a large spoonful of mustard to the above, and use tarragon vinegar. For Rccvigotte you thicken with a little flour, and add a very little white wine, with some lime juice instead of vinegar. For Remoulade use neither lime nor wine, but incorporate with your flying onions and green herbs, a table spoonful of salad oil, and a tea spoonful of powdered mustard. These sharp relishes go well with fish, and, as a change, are welcome with cutlets, etc.CHAPTEK 22LI *V- Sauces—continued. EF the whole category of simple sauces none is more generally maltreated than “ bread-sauce. Delicious when properly made, it is positively a repulsive mess when wrongly treated. You have no doubt lamented many a time over the wretched compound which your cook persists in sending up under this title; and I have heard people say that true “ bread-sauce” cannot be made in India. Now I have tasted quite as nasty a composition as Eamasamy s in England, in fact even there you more frequently get it bad, than good. The good “bread-sauce, now served at the Junior United Service Club in London, is due to the admonitions of an officer, now in Ma- dras. The system pursued by the ignorant cook may be thus described -—he cuts some slices of bread, or grates bread- crumbs enough for his requirements, over which he pours a tea-cupful of boiling water, he gives that a pinch of salt, perhaps (but by no means for certain) a spoonful of milk, and a quantity of whole pepper corns and cloves j he stirs this to the consistency of thick porridge, and finally sends up a mixture which may be plainly described as spiced bread poultice ! Setting aside other considerations for a moment, can anything be more disagreeable than the accidental biting of a whole dove, or a pepper corn, in any dish or sauce . Common sense accordingly dictates that when the use ot71 Sj4 UCES—COJVEIJV TJE(D. these condiments is necessary, we should strain the liquid in which they have been placed. The back-bone of “ bread sauce” is the flavouring of the milk it is made of, to begin with ; that done^ to strain it carefully over your grated crumbs ; then to re-heat it, and finish it off with a good table spoonful of cream at the moment you serve it: in the absence of cream, the yolk of one e^ beaten up in a little milk till i t looks creamy, may be added off the fire, just at the last. To flavour the milk you must take a good sized onion, peal off the outside skin, cut it into quarters, and put them, with a dozen pepper corns, six cloves, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a salt spoonful of’salt, into a sauce-pan containing not less than half a pint of good nnlk. The utmost care is now necessary, for milk boils up so rapidly that you must watch your sauce-pan narrowly and use a very low fire to retard the boiling sta/e! Kernove the pan as soon as the surface of the milk lools frothy: let it cool a little, and replace it, continuing the operation until. the onion is done, and adding a little milk from time to time to make good the loss by evaporation. Now strain it off through a piece of muslin into a bowl, and add to it, spoonful by spoonful, the stale bread crumbs you have already prepared, till your eye tells you, you have attamed the right consistency • then heat the sauce up aaain and finish it as I previously described. I can always “rely Hand bit Tbg°°. a “ ^ead-sauce” here as I ever ate in fimjand, but then 1 would never attempt it unless I had of the miTlfw6? f COmmauf There be no evasion t le milk. Water at once produces the poultice I have con- demned, and the spoonful of cream, or the yolk whipped ud in mflk must be added if you desire success. ThfsP sauce f J deserves the trouble I have prescribed, and it will be found in the end economical, for by its aid a careful!v loastedfowi provides an enjoyable meal; whilst fillets o^f Ew Z chlc¥n> bread-crumbed, nicely fried and garnished with a crisp curl or two of friprl kLa and at once a superior character. Al grilled over a fast fire, besprinkled' with ted “lead cr’umb>72 CULljr^Y JOYYIJVG-S Foil JJLJlQItfkB. and assisted by good bread sauce, forms a nice luncheon for a lady, whose husband’s days are spent at office, or for a convalescent beginning to mend after a long illness. To continue simple sauces:—that known as Sauce au 'pauvre homme is produced by first frying a minced onion in a little butter until it assumes a golden brown tint, and then pouring in a little broth made from scraps, with a tea-spoon- ful of vinegar: you must give this a boil, and then stii it by decrees into another sauce-pan containing melted butter and flour; work this well with a wooden spoon and add a pinch of salt, a little pepper, and some minced parsley. “Dutch sauce” as eaten in Holland, is butter plainly melted in a sauce-pan, flavoured with a little pepper, a little salt and the squeeze of a lemon ; this is allowed to settle over the fire, and is then poured free from the sediment at the bottom of the pan, into a piping hot sauce-boat 1 his sauce is admirable with fish, you must, of course, substitute lime for lemon, and have butter enough to spare tor the undertaking. I strongly advise my fortunate friends on the Neilcherries to make this sauce (a little goes a long way mind) for their globe artichokes; one table-spoonful is enough for one artichoke, and the plates should be really hot. “ Horse-radish sauce” is a grand standard adjunct to our national food, “the roastbeef of old England, and beet in India cries out for help far more piteous y than its lich relation far away. Horse-radish grows well at Ootacamu , and I grew some with success at Bangalore, but the scraped root of the moringa, or “drum-stick tree,’ provides bo goo a substitute than we may rest contented with a sauce thus composed -.—Scrape as finely as you can a cupful ot the root shavings, boil them in a little broth; when done, stn into the broth the yolks of a couple of eggs beaten up wit a table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar ; add pepper, salt and a very little grated nutmeg, and serve in a sauce-boc . richer recipe suggests the addition of half a pint ot creanSJLUOES—OOJT^IJTTJEQ. 72 with the yolks of the eggs, and then to let the sauce remain on the fire, stirring well until it is very hot (but not boiling) and serving it in a hot sauce-boat. The cold form of this sauce is perhaps the easiest, and I think as nice as any :— you simply rasp the moringa, or horse-radish root, till you have a cupful of fine scrapings, and mingle them with an ordinary mayonnaise, or tartare sauce. Cream is, of course, a great addition, but the usual mixture of eggs, oil, mustard, and vinegar, will give you a good result; and this leads me to discuss the two sauces I have mentioned at once. Mayonnaise sauce is certainly one of the most useful, and popular of all the sauces we attempt out here. In ordering it, if you know what to say, and give good materials, you may be certain of success. Be sure that the oil you give is thoroughly good, or the result will be very painful; and examine your mustard, vinegar, and eggs. Assuming that these are all satisfactory, set to work in the following manner:— Commence with the dry ingredients, and put into a soup- plate, or slop basin, the very hard-boiled yolks of two eggs, a pinch of salt, a dessert spoonful of mustard powder, a tea- spoonful of finely minced shallot, and a dust of white pepper. Bruise these together thoroughly with the back of a silver spoon; now add a, little oil, and work your materials to a paste, adding the oil patiently by degrees until you get it nice and moist; next throw in the yolks of two raw eggs, and continue your working, adding oil without measure, and judging by your eye when you think you have made enough sauce, for the tarragon vinegar you finally add will not be more than a good table-spoonful; the moment vinegar is added, the sauce will assume a creamy appearance, and when worked sufficiently, will be ready for the block tin strainer (to get rid of “onion atoms,” lumps of egg, &c.), and then for the table. It made on the plains early in the afternoon the sauce-boat should be placed in the ice box; but, to be suc- cessful, Mayonnaise sauce ought, if possible, to be made as near the time of service as possible. When cream is used74 CULT^jtRT JOttlJfG-S FOR J/LJlQItftS. it takes the place of the oil, but if only a little can be spared, a dessert spoonful may be added to the sauce I have described with good effect. All Mayonnaise sauces should be iced. The points in this sauce to be noted are, the order in which the various ingredients should be employed, the use of the raw yolks in conjunction with the hard-boiled (they produce the creaminess you want), the liberal use of goo > the addition last of all, m sparing quantity of the taimgon vinegar. You do not want an acid sauce at all, rememl Encrfish cooks, as a rule, ruin their Mayonnaise and salad dressings, by measuring the oil and vinegar they use in equal portions! no artist measures these ingredients; you miokt as well expect a painter to tell you the number of trains of the colours he used in painting a picture. W must use a little onion, but whilst permitting the flavour . j tn animate the whole, you must on no “ scal’cf suspected to anuna^ the^ w„ the kdieTi^Sydney Smith’s days were perhaps less critical in the matter of this fragrant bulb, than are our fair enslavers in the present year of giace. “ Tartars sauce” is the same as the above, without the use of Wd b”w “os: raw yolks alone should be used, and the oTl and vinegar added in the following proportions ; a tea-spoonful of the latter, to a table-spoontui of the forme , often’times repeated till enough sauce is made. « Remoulade" is a Mayonnaise sauce with olives, par^ejs chives, and capers, added : for chives, try the gieen stalks of a few young onions. . « Ravigotte” is also Mayonnaise with chopped anchovies, celery, cress, and sweet herbs.CHIAPTEB ESLAP. ♦ Sauces—concluded. PASS to-day to the consideration of a few standard high class sauces, which, with a little care and atten- tion, will be found practicable in every well-con- ducted Madras kitchen. To aid you in this branch of the cook’s art, you cannot possess a better guide than Jules Gouffe, whose admirably systematic method of discussing sauces has never been approached by any authority on culinary mysteries. Unfortunately, however for the inex- perienced reader, Gouffe’s work is rather the treatise of a Professor addressed to students who have already matricu- lated, than a vade mecum for beginners. So unless you are fairly au fait in practical kitchen work, you will hardly derive much easy aid from the Royal Cookery Book. You must have some knowledge of the ingredients which may possibly be spared, and of those which must on no account be omitted, for even in Gouffe’s recipes there are sometimes things named which are not absolutely essential. You ought to know something of stock-making, and understand the value of game bones, poultry bones, fragments of ham, &c., and the sort of flavour these things produce, helped by certain vegetables. If, by experience, you have picked up a knowledge of equivalents so much the better. I can, in short, readily believe that those who have never bothered their heads about cookery, would find it almost impossible to direct a native cook from the pages of the great chef. InCTJLIJ7JIIIY J0TTIJ7G-S FOI{ 76 saying this I speak from experience. I first read Gouffd before I had&taken to practical cooking work, and before I had actually made sauces, &c., ladle in hand, in an English kitchen. Since going through that ordeal, I have again come across the book, and I find that much that I had formerly to skip as too complicated, now seems easy enough. I propose now to place before you in the simplest way I can, Gouffe’s fundamental sauces. Those who are acquaint- ed with that author will observe that in the first place I shall reduce the recipes to a much shorter compass, and in the next, that I shall omit everything that is not down- right necessary to produce a fair result. Gouffe propounds the following sauces as the foundation of nearly all those of a high class you are likely to lequiie .— 1 ,Espagnole; 2, Veloute; 3, Allemande; 4, Bechamel; 5, Marinade; and.6, Poivrade. Of these Veloute, Allemande, and Bechamel are so closely allied, that I shall confine mysel to the last. Marinade and Poivrade I have already given. Espagnole is, of course, worthy of close attention. - y fundamental sauces will then be reduced to two. one brown, the other white, which I think will be found ample for the Indian kitchen. Veal stock plays an important part in Gouffe s recipes. Now although there can be no doubt of its value, I do not look upon veal as a sine qua non in sauce-making. A really carefully made consomme, assisted by a ham or bacon bone, and on special occasions with a fowl, will give you an excel- lent base to work upon. With regard to Espagnole sauce, (which, as many of you know, is a rich, thick broivn sauce) I would simplify Goutib s receipt as follows Get ready a couple ot sheep s trotteis chopped in pieces, with a ham or bacon bone, oi a few slices of either; any poultry bones, or cutlet trimmings you may have, and two pounds of beef gravy meat cut into squaies. Now cut up a couple of onions and throw them into a stew-77 Bfi UOES—COJVCLU(DE(X>. pan with an ounce of butter, fry them a golden brown, then add a breakfast cupful of broth, or water, and the pieces of meat previously prepared ; shake the pan every now and then, and let the meat take colour: now add water enough to cover the meat, &c., completely, and let the contents of the pan come slowly to the boil, skimming care- fully during that period; when the surface seems nicely clear of grease and scum, add a cupful of cold water and two carrots sliced, a turnip, a good piece of celery, a clove of garlic, half a dozen pepper corns, a spoonful of dried sweet- herbs tied up in a bag, a bunch of parsley, some burnt sugar colouring, and salt to taste. As soon as the vegetables have been cooked, remove the pan from the fire, and place it so that it may simmer slowly for a couple of hours : now lift it up, and strain off your gravy : there should be quite a pint and a half of it. Now take a sauce-pan and melt an ounce ot butter at the bottom of it, stir in an ounce of flour and make a brown roux, when the colour satisfies you, add by degrees, stirring as you do so, the pint or so of strong gravy you strained from the stew-pan. Let the contents of your sauce-pan come to the boil, stirring the whole time, and then set it in the bain-marie pan to remain hot till wanted : any fat that may rise during the thickening pro- cess should be skimmed off, but if the gravy be properly made, and skimmed before it is added to the roux there will be. very little to take off in the bain-marie stage. The bain marie remember, is a vessel containing boiling water, and kept over the fire, in which you immerse sauce-pans containing made sauces to preserve them hot for use. Espagnole sauce is therefore, simply a good rich brown giavy, thickened with flour. It depends for its flavour upon the admixture of vegetables, and the true essence of the meat you employ to make it. From this sauce you can proceed ^compose a number of rich preparations as follows • —Hnancihre, Pcmgueux, Bordelaise, Provencale, Gene- voise, Matelotte, Chateaubriand, Begence, Italienne, and liobert with others too numerous to mention. The specialites of the sauces I have enumerated consist in7£ CULTEFRY JOYYTjgG-B FOB. JlflQBJlS. the flavouring of the Espagnole, from which they are really made, with mushrooms, truffles, essence of game or of picreons, poultry, fish, or ham (concerning which I shall speak later on) wine in judicious proportions delicate vegetables, and so on. A careful perusal of a good cookery book receipt ought to guide you, when once you have achieved an undeniable foundation with your Espagnole. I will, for example, give you sauce a la Perigueux •—CW up the contents of half a small bottle of truffles and toss them a while in some melted butter at the bottom of a h sauce-pan, add a little pepper and salt, and then slowly stu in your Espagnole already described; when thoiouglily hot the sauce is ready. Take now Financiere sauce for, let us say, & ragout of that nameChoose a nice tender fowl, select all the meat you require for your ragout, and save the bones, liver gib- lets and trimmings. Proceed to make an essence of these thus -.—break up the bones, and with the rest of the pieces make the strongest broth you can, flavoured with an onion, a pinch of dried herbs, a sliced carrot, and two or thi.ee pepper corns ; reduce it as strong as possiblee andIt^^n strain Now take equal portions of mushrooms and of tiufiles > cu^ them up, and toss them in melted butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan when you have worked them well thus for two 01 three minutes, add your fowl essence, and complete the sauce with your pint of EsVagnole. The ragout (which should be varnished with whole button mushrooms, sliced truffles, cocks- combs tongue, grated ham, and sippets of crisply fried bacon) is merely a careful stew of fowl fillets, in the sauce I have described. If the fillets, be previously cooked, they will merely require gently heating up m the sauce. Bechamel which I select as the best type of a ^un^' commence79 SJ1U0ES—00J70L UQEQ. them take colour, but add your meat and bones at once, and cover them with water, omitting the browning stage: go on now to make a clear consomme; instead of burnt sugar colouring, add a pinch of powdered sugar plain ; if this be carefully prepared, and skimmed, you will obtain a pellucid broth which should be strained, and kept ready for use presently. Take a sauce-pan, and melt a quarter of a pound of “ Cow-brand,” or any good preserved butter in it; fry gently in that for ten minutes a sliced carrot and a sliced onion ; before thev take colour, add two ounces of flour, stir for five minutes, and add by degrees your clear stock, half a pint of cream, a small tin-ful of mush- rooms chopped, salt, and pepper; stir over the fire till boiling, and then permit the sauce to simmer slowly for an hour, taking off all fat that may rise. At the end of the hour you can strain the Bechamel into a sauce-pan, and place it in the bain-marie. Before using, a gill of cream may be finally stirred into the sauce as you take it from the bain-marie. Veloutt is exactly like this omitting the cream when you add the stock, and also the chopped mushrooms : it is there- fore less expensive and not so rich. Allemande is Veloute flavoured with chicken essence, and chopped mushrooms : it is thickened with yolks of eggs, and no cream is needed in its composition. _ With these for your bases, you can make the following rich white sauces:—Oyster, Lobster, Supreme, Venitienne, rich Soubise, Champignons blanches, puree de celeri, and other rich white purees. In fact all sauces which, in their simple form, are made with sauce blanche, or sauce blonde, may be served in a superior manner by using veloute, or bechamel as their groundwork. I have already described the making of chicken, or rather fowl essence : the same principles being observed, you can obtain valuable flavouring gravies from all poultry bones,go CULIJJJIIIY jomjvas poj? MJiQRjia. especially from those of a turkey: the giblets should never be thrown away for they assist a gravy greatly. In like manner game bones are very valuable : a dash of Madeira improves game essences. Chablis and sauterne give assistance to fish gravies, which are used, of course, to improve sauces like Creme d’anchois, mditre cVliotel, and all fish sauces. Essences of mushrooms, of truffles, vegetables, and ham, aie obtained _>} stewing them cut into small pieces in consomme. Mirepoix is a strong broth made from meat and vegetables, flavoured with wine and sweet herbs, and strained, but not thickened. It is used as a flavouring agent. I have now, I think, given you a sketch of sauce-making in its various stages. A few sauces that I have not at piesent described, will be found in my menus. In my next I pro- pose to discuss “ meat and poultry as joints.CHAPTER Z^L^T-T. ♦ Roast and Boiled. IYE me,” says the Englishman, “ a good cut of a well cooked joint, with a nicely boiled potato, and a fresh vegetable, and I will ask for nothing more.” Now, it must be admitted, that honest slices of meat constitute the favourite dinner of a Briton. Go into a Club dining-room, or into any large London tavern like “ Simpson’s,” “ The Rainbow,” &c., &c., and you will find two-thirds of the men assembled there dining “ off the joint.” And verily the well roasted haunch or saddle of mutton, the sirloin of beef, the fillet of veal, and the loin of pork, are dishes peculiar to England, of which we may well boast. Our artistic neighbours across the channel are wont to sneer at our love of great joints, which they fail to cook as well as we do, and though in deference to the insular taste “ross biff” generally figures in a Parisian menu, I think that men are unanimous in saying that it never comes up to the home-fed, home-served sirloin. Oui 'pcTLcliciTit for solid food follows us whithersoever we wander away from home, and we find John Bull in India as fond of his beef and mutton, as he was when “ a humble cottager in Britain. He sighs for a South-down saddle, or a Scotch sirloin, and is apt to turn away sorrowfully from the meagre travesty of a joint, which, after much trouble the sharer of his joys and sorrows contrives to place before him.gg CULJJTfi^ JOTCTIJTG-S FOR JAJlQIiJlS. Now although a vast quantity of wretched meat is sold in the Indian market, I think that people who are willing to pay a cr0od price, and whose servants are not unusually dishonest, can ^generally get fair beef and mutton at he large stations of this Presidency. A really bad servant will o course cheat you with greater cruelty in buying your meat than in anything. At some places the beef is better than the mutton, and vice versa, but I think that, if not haggle w over his prices, a butcher is always to be found who can sup- ply you with eatable meat. At the present time, owing o. le calamity which befel us last year, and the two pievious seasons of scarcity, our market here is not neai } as supplied as it formerly was; nevertheless,_good meat is be crot. The mutton at the Madras Club is excellent, and you always get a nice cut from a saddle at a dinner pai }. The comparative scarcity however, of eatable meat is in a great measure due to ourselves. It' the butchers were certain of sales at remunerative prices they would produce a far better article than they do, but when people grumble at an extra anna charged on a seer of well-fed meat you can scarcely expect much improvement. The expenses attending sheep-feeding are pretty well proved by the statistics of the old established mutton clubs up-country The members, it is true, get capital meat, but it costs them, first and last, very nearly what it would in England. Native graziers can hardly be expected to turn out equally good mutton at a cheaper rate. Setting aside the joints that you occasionally get when a stall-fed ox has been slaughtered, or a grain-fed sheep cut up ; and without considering the exceptionally good meat, of mutton clubs, it is the duty of the chronicler of these jot- tin cr3” to treat of the average produce of the countiy, an to endeavour to provide his readers with a few useful hints as to the cookery thereof. Let us therefore take the ordinal y joint of beef or of mutton which Ramasamy brings daily from bazaar for “ Master and Mrs. only” :-the diminutive «sirloin, the ribs scarcely larger than the loin chops of a^0ji8<T jZJJQ gOILEQ. S'3 Leicestershire sheep, the three-and-a-half pound leg of mut- ton, or the wizen loinlet,—and let us assume that the meat, though small, is fairly good,—-what shall we do with it ? In a country where it is impossible to keep cooked meat, the fact of a joint being small need hardly be considered a drawback, but we have before us a good deal of bone in proportion to the meat, and very little fat. I say boldly that plainly roasting such a fragment is a mistake. Unless the joint be of a fair size, and above the average as to fat (like the saddle, or the specially fine sirloin we buy for a dinner party) I would never roast it. The morsel can ill afford to lose the little gravy it possesses which the stab of the spit is bound to draw, and which we rarely see sent to table, for Ramasamy appreciates it as an adjunct to his curry. The only way to cook little joints, such as I allude to, is to braise them. In this way you obtain all the nourishment the meat can give, and a tasty dish into the bargain. For the benefit of those who do not quite understand the process I had better mention that braising consists in placing meat in a closed stew-pan, with a little made gravy or stock round it, vegetables cut up, and a judicious allowance of salt and pepper. In this the meat is slowly cooked, whilst it is browned externally by live coals placed on the stew-pan lid. There is thus heat from above and below the pan, and the joint is cooked in its own gravy. To braise a little Indian joint successfully you must first bone it, then trim it, tie it with a string into a neat shape, give it a dust of salt and pepper, and put it on one side, whilst you make the best broth you can from the bones you cut out, and the trim- mings : this should occupy the cook all morning: having obtained all you can from the bones, strain off 3Tour broth, let it get cool, skim off the fat and now proceed to cook the meat. Melt some butter or fat at the bottom of your stew-pan first, and turn the meat about in till it begins to take colour, then add your broth (a pint and a half or thereabouts will he found enough) with two carrots, four good sized onions, pepper, and salt: let it come slowly to the boil, then simmer84 CULIJlJlIiY JOWIJIGS FOIl JdJIQIUlB. gently for two hours. Turn the meat, add a couple of onions, and (says Gouffb) a gill of brandy, let the pan simmer for an hour more,—keeping live-coals on the lid throughout the process,—and the braise will be complete. Lift out the joint, and keep it on a hot dish, whilst you strain off the gravy remaining in the stew-pan,—it will be half the amount you originally poured in, but much stronger. You can now send up the joint with the gravy plainly poured round it; or you can pass the vegetables, with which the meat was braised, through the sieve, thicken the gravy, and add the pulp of the vegetables to it. In this manner you can successfully dress a leg of mutton, a loin of mutton, a small sirloin, a piece of the ribs of beei, in fact all small joints. Poultry ducks and geese are far better braised than roasted, unless you keep a fowl-yard of your own, and feed and kill the birds at home. To braise poultry well, you must make the gravy from the giblets, and trimmings of the birds, assisted by a little gravy meat; and all braises are better if you help the gravy with a little extra meat, lhe French throw in a glass or two ot light white wine when braising poultry, and Madeira is a sterling aid in cooking mutton or beef in this method. If you must roast your meat, see that it is not spitted, that is, thrust through by the spit; with a little care a small Indian joint can easily be tied to it. Do not let your cook use skewers, but make him tie a joint into shape, for every stab inflicted in it, will rob the piece of meat of its juiciness. Tastes vary so strangely as to the “doing” of meat, that it is impossible to give a rule for roasting. It is, however, essential to use an equal fire throughout the process, and to CTuard against cooking the outside too fast. Frequent bast- fnor is a sine qua, non, and you should dredge a little flout over the meat to finish with, to produce a crisp, brown frothy surface. You should preserve the fat o youi sn oin or loin of mutton, by tying over it a wrapper of buttered paper.85 %OJS<T SOILED. The French place their small joints in marinade, a custom I strongly advocate for the poor meat of this country, when you intend to roast or grill it. Here is the Gallic method of cooking a loin of mutton en yapillote :—Trim the loin nicely, and let it lie from morning till roasting time en marinade, composed of a breakfast cupful of salad oil, two onions, and a carrot, sliced fine as for Julienne, with some whole peppers, cloves, salt, chopped parsley, and a tea spoonful of powdered dried sweet herbs. Let the joint be turned several times during the day, and baste it often. When to be dressed, pack it with its vegetables and all in a well oiled paper, aud roast it carefully, basting it with the oil that composed the marinade: when nearly done, remove the paper, brush off the vegetables, baste with melted butter, and serve, when nicely browned, with other vegetables, independently cooked in gravy. Though the inexperienced reader will hardly believe me, I can assure him that when finally set before him, he will fail to trace the pre- sence of oil (the bSte noir of Englishmen) whilst he will be surprised at the juiciness, and good flavour of the meat. In roasting poultry, invariably lard the breast with fat bacon, or tie a flap of bacon over it. Birds cannot be kept too moist when roasting. A Bellary onion, and a lump of preserved butter should be put inside the carcass of a fowl, and the basting should be carefully attended to. The slower the roasting the better. I have often found that a fowl baked in a slow oven till about three parts done, and then finished in front of the fire, was excellent. It should be occasionally basted with melted butter whilst in the oven. The bacon tied over the breast should be removed durino1 the last five minutes of the cooking, when the bird should be lightly dredged over with flour, and liberally basted with melted butter to produce the brown, crisp, blisters, which always make a fowl look inviting. 8CHjeLPTEK xvn. floasf and Boiled-continued. ilF permitted to follow the customs of the cookroom, the uneducated Ramasamy will send up your roast bsJ fowl—hardly as large as an English chicken wi its breast strangely puffed out and distorted with a horrible its oreasi biw ^ v f , Tbis u carefully avoid account o£ to nastiness, but lew, I take it. boldly ordeAheir cooks never to perpetrate the atrocity again, under an impression that stuffing is necessary in p. iiivxr The mixture which tradition has hauaed r™"? Z for the stuffing of ducks and aeese is nearly as disagreeable as that foi- the f°wf Whilst the latter may be described as a oonsohdated and greasy relation it th«,<• bread poutoc^ to treating of ‘ breadsauoe, #the half-boiled potato, mbred^together lumpily and lubricated with some chopped m^ed together lummy teii that pojato ha, no place fan 1L r “ hnck Stuffing and that the crude taste you She™ much tise, fto£ the sage being cbopped-v and the onion being a common one instead of the mild called “ Bombay,” or “ Bellary. fc: wS SS ire right tender looking87 ItOfiS# fiJTQ SOILEQ—OOfifElfilUEQ. sage leaves, and scald them in boiling water for five minutes, take them out, and when the onions are tender, turn them out, drain them dry, and proceed to mince them with the sage leaves,very fine. Add to this, five ounces of bread-crumbs, and dust over the mixture a liberal allowance of spiced pepper (which I give at the end of this Chapter) and salt: when nicely worked together, bind the ingredients with the yolks of two eggs, and an ounce of butter cut into dice : it will now be ready for use. The proportions of this stuffing may be relied on: it is mild, yet pleasantly flavoured, and, “ leaves not a trace of sad memory behind.” Goose stuffing is made in a similar way, and it is a plea- sant addition to some joints of pork: let my friends on the Hills try a loin, boned, rolled, and stuffed with this, and roasted over a bright fire. To return to fowl stuffing. The only birds that should be stuffed in the crop are turkeys, and exceptionally fine capons. Who amongst you ever saw a roast fowl in England, stuffed ? The barbarous practice has become common out here, and ought to be put down as utterly wrong. Moisture, which is so necessary in roasting, should be secured by either larding the fowl with fat bacon, or tying a slice of bacon over the breast. I advocate a stuffing for the inside of a fowl intended for braising as follows :—well mashed potato, and boiled Bombay onion, in the proportion of two-thirds of the former, to one-third of the latter. The mashed potato, of course, contains butter, spiced pepper, and a little milk or cream, or the yolk of an egg, and helps to pre- serve the juiciness of the bird ; the flavour it imparts too is, I think, agreeable. An author for whom I entertained the greatest respect uiges the practice I mentioned in my last chapter of put- ting one sweet onion, and a lump of salt butter, inside every chicken, or fowl, to be roasted. But this cannot be called “stuffing.” A turkey, on the other hand requires carefully made forcemeat, and, as you all know there are many varieties thereof. Truffles, and chestnutsgg CULIJJJ1W JOGTIJIG-S Foil MJIQIIJIS. form the epicurean stuffings of the roast turkey, and one of oysters is propounded for the boiled bird. I leave these elaborate compositions alone, for receipts can be easily hunted up for them when a special occasion may demand a “ dindon truffle a, la Perigord,” or a “ dinde braisde a la financiere&c., &c. The stuffing I am anxious to discuss is the ordinary one we remember in England for turkeys, veal, hares, and so on:—a firm, green-tinted forcemeat, flavoured with pleasant herbs, a suspicion of lemon-peel, and slight touch of spice; a forcemeat which cuts clean with the slice of the breast of your turkey, or fillet of veal, and is nice whether hot or cold. Not a greasy mess pale brown in color, and lumpy, which, at the first cut of the knife, oozes out, and encumbers the dish in a most untempt- in" manner. 0 In order to be sure of making the real thing, if you have not (as you ought to have easily enough at Madras) the plants themselves growing in pots handy, see that you have a bottle of dried thyme, and one of marjoram, and a good bunch ot fresh curly parsley, which should also be growing;m pots Having these ready, work as follows:—peel a good sized lime and mince the peel as fine as possible : weigh six ounces of dry well sifted, stale bread-crumbs: measure a dessert spoon- ful of chopped thyme (green) and one of marjoram (green->l or take a table spoonful of the dried leaves powdered - half and half: you must powder the leaves to get rid of atoms of stalk and stick : mince the parsley fane to the extent of a heaped up table spoonful: chop up three ounces of fresh beef suet, or butter, it suet cannot be go. mix all these together with two spoons in a large dish, and dust the whole well with salt and pepper and a little grated nutmeg lastly binding the mixture together with three well -work this together, and the stuffing will be fit to use Much depends upon the fine mincing of all the ingre- dients and their thorough incorporation : the suet should be choj^d as finely as possible. The colour wdll be^ a deep green provided, you use the quantities of g 1 have liven "supposing, however, that you have only dnedifOjSS^r J1]<T(D SOILEQ—COJTZIfTUECD; 89 herbs, and that you cannot get parsley ; why not secure the colour by a good spoonful of spinach greening, it is almost tasteless, and the colour is a great thing in stuffing. This, carefully made, is Martha’s ordinary veal, or turkey stuffing, and ought to taste just as nice here as that we so well remember at home. Forcemeats are, of course, added to, and perhaps improved, by chopped ham, tongue, liver, mushrooms, bacon, a little anchovy, a casual oyster, and, of course, truffles. The addi- tion of these things should, however, be thoughtfully carried out, and the proportions on no account left at hap-hazard to the tender mercy of the average Ramasamy. Amongst the many barbarous tricks of Native cooks, there is an especial one which I ought to have brought to prominent notice before. I refer to the method which obtains in the cookroom of removing the feathers from poul- try, geese, ducks, and game. I cannot call it “plucking,” for, as many of you know, the feathers are got rid of whole- sale by plunging the bird into scalding hot-water ! The immediate effect of this ignorant habit is to harden and parch the skin of the fowl, to prevent the proper exudation of moisture during roasting, and to render the flesh dry and tasteless. Birds must be plucked by hand, and their small down must be singed. To ensure this being done in your kitchen, order all birds to be brought for inspection when trussed for cooking, and the smallest experience will enable you to detect the parchment-like skin of the scalded bird, from that of the hand-plucked one, which will be cool and soft, with an unmistakable freshness which the other cannot have. A basket containing the feathers should also be shown, for they will expose scalding in a minute. It is needlessto say that game is ruthlessly spoiled by this trick of the kitchen, and even the chicken destined for a curry is robbed of half its flavour by being scalded first. The prac- tice is, of course, the offspring of idleness,—a subterfuge to escape trouble. ° I would also point out that the common way of killing poultry m this country is inhuman, and, in a culinary90 CULl^fiRY JOttlJsTGS FOI? point of view, utterly wrong. Setting aside ^ cvuelty of cutting a fowl’s throat, and throwing it on the around to bleed to death in agony what an idiotic thina it is to waste the very part of the bird from which its gravy, and juiciness are derived ! White meats aie bled i England simply to produce the necessary tint,.but t y ^ much of their nutritious quality by the procepa. They can afford to do so. Our poorly flavoured birds can the loss of an atom of the richness they may possess, maintain, therefore, that a merciful, and bv a heavv blow of a wooden mallet, would be bettei tor uie fowl, and far better for us-.-the blow should be grven on the back of the head. Tn all stuffings, and forcemeats, whether required for T have been very successful with one 1 maae rouffe s receipt which I feel it my duty to tell you of, anfurge you to go and do likewise You cau bottle .t, and take what you require from time to time. ^ ounce dried thyme leaves, i do. do. marjoram, l do. do. savory, £ do. nutmeg, l do. cloves, \ do. whole black pepper, S3& to sa™uryypies, rolled beef, brawn, savoury pates, and all forcemeats. ^ from the bottle.CHAPTEE XVIH. ♦ Roast and Boiled—concluded. OILING,v says the G.C., "is one of the simplest and most economical modes of preparing food. Meat loses less weight in boiling than in any process of cooking, and the water it has boiled in can alwa3?s be turned to good account; besides which, although it may be an open question whether boiled meat is more nutritious than roast or broiled meat, it is beyond dispute more wholesome and easily digested.” Under the head of “ soup-making” I have already dis- cussed the method of boiling meat required for soup: the “pot aw few” being my example of how meat should be treated when the object is to extract its juices. We must now consider what has to be done in preparing boiled meat for the table, and note where the two processes differ. For the “pot aw few” it is necessary to put the meat into cold water first,—alone: to watch it come slowly to the boil, skimming the scum that rises very carefully : when the sur- face is clear, and the water boiling, to add the salt, vegeta- bles, &c.; to let it boil till the vegetables are done, and then to let the contents of your pot simmer for three or four hours. For a piece of boiled beef, or a fowl, mutton, or whatever it may be, destined for the dinner table, you must put the meat, tied neatly in the shape required with twine, into hot-water to begin with: like the pot awCULT^J^Y JOYYIfTG-8 FOI{ feu it should be watched, and skimmed, and the salt, and flavouring vegetables, and herbs, added when the scum has been removed. The water, let me observe, must not be boil- ing, it should be as hot as you can bear to touch, and the early stage of coming to the actual boil should be retarded as much as possible. Boiled meat at the English dinner table is often spoiled bj being “ galloped,” as cooks say, that is, done too fast. _ Meat thus maltreated cannot fail to be tough. You must simmer your hump, or your ham, just as carefully as you would the meat of a pot au feu. When once boiling point has been attained, ease off the fire a little, and endeavour to obtain a uniform heat below the pot that will just keep its surface, as it were, alive ; an occasional bubble, is what you want, with gentle motion, the water muttering to you not jabbering and fussing, as it does when boiling. If you follow this process, you will never have to send a boiled leg of mutton away from the table because of its being too underdone inside to be fit to eat. The common error made by cooks in England, just as much as by our Ramasamy, consists in their keeping up the hicdi pressure too long, whereby the outside of the joint is rapidly done, and the inside scarcely cooked at all. l ie joint looks done, and is consequently sent up with the unsatisfactory result which I have pointed out. Simmering a joint of meat is undoubtedly a troublesome process in India, the cook’s attention must be kept up throughout the work. He cannot lift the potto the hob, or change its position on the range, as the English cook can so easily do. de must be ever watchful about his fire, and guard against there being too much, or too little fire-wood under his s ew- pan In fact, I doubt whether it is possible for Ramasamy to conduct the simmering process satisfactorily with only the common appliances of the coolcroom at his command. Those who possess ranges, or cooking stoves, should count themselves especially fortunate : their cooks can regulateJj’OjSSS' fiJTQ SOILED— COJTOLUCDEQ. 92 the heat they want at will. But, with a common cookroom fireplace, the difficulty of maintaining the unvarying gentle heat so highly essential, appears to me to be very great. Daring the boiling of a joint the water should at all times be kept so as to cover it: if there be any loss by evaporation, it should be made good by the addition of cold water. No matter what meat you boil, you will find it improved by the addition of a few vegetables. Custom has ruled that we should put in carrots, and turnips, with boiled beef— turnips, or sweet onions, with boiled mutton,—onions with a rabbit, etc., jmt true cooks add a judicious assortment of herbs,etc.,to every boiled dish. ABombay onion, some celery, a carrot, parsley, a sprig of marjoram, or thyme, a little bag of flavouring materials such as a clove of garlic, a blade of mace, a few cloves, some whole peppers, and the peel of a lime, should always go into the pan with a boiled fowl. Unless you have tried them, you have no idea how these things improve the taste of boiled joints. It is a very capital plan to boil a fowl in the soup-stocJc Herein you have the true essence of economy—no waste. The soup gains all the fowl loses in the boiling, whilst the fowl gains richness and flavour by being done in the stock. One lot of vegetables and herbs suffices for both, and abso- lutely- nothing is thrown away but the muslin bag which contained the spices, garlic, &c. I need hardly remind you that in suggesting this to Ramasamy you will meet with opposition. He will tell you, in all probability, that “ mixted the fowl and soup-meat, cannot come the good taste,” and when you insist upon a trial, he will go away sorrowful, for the broth produced in boiling a fowl, purely and simply, is his perquisite (or rather we do not ask for it) and “ mixted with rice only,” makes with a chilli or two—a bowl of “ pish-pash.” Nevertheless, the fact exists beyond a doubt that a fowl is vastly improved by being thus cooked: itbaked crumbs over it. An ancient Indian custom may s 1 1 9A CULIJT^IIY JOYYTJ^aa FOX JUJQIlflB. remains for you to decide whether, as a matter of policy, it would be wise to vex “ your best friend” by ordering so great an innovation. I confess that the man who, with his eyes open, wars against his chef, is generally the loser before the campaign is ended. Time in boiling meat can scarcely be fixed arbitrarily: if you follow the advice I have given, you will find fifteen to twenty minutes per pound a reliable allowance. Discre- tion and experience will enable you to decide what orders to give: large and deep joints like humps, legs of mutton and of pork, silverside of beef, and hams, will naturally require a more liberal allowance than fowds, tongues, galantines, bacon, rabbits, &c. There are few things that are boiled so important as the ham. So much depends on the cook’s knowledge of the process, that many a ham is spoiled through ignorance. I think it worth while, therefore, to give you the following rules which I hope will be found easy enough. It is of course a sine qua non that you soak the ham for twenty-four hours, changing the water at least three times (I am speaking of hams in canvas, or skin, not of those in tins) when thus well soaked, scrub the ham well, and trim it, scraping off all discolorations. Now place it in your ham- kettle, and cover it with cold water—(for a festival a bottle of Madeira should be poured in with the water)—and let it come gently to the boil removing all scum that may rise. When°quite clear, throw in three carrots, a head of celery (leaves and all) three Bombay onions, a bag containing crarlic, cloves, mace, whole peppers, and lime peel, parsley, thyme, and marjoram, boil on till the vegetables are done, and then let the kettle simmer gently for four or five hours. When done, let it remain till nearly cold, then lift the ham from the water, and detach the outer skin (it will roll off easily) and dredge some fine raspings ofJIJTQ F>OILE(D—COJVCLUQEQ. 95 be met with, where civilisation has not yet penetrated, of sticking an army of cloves into the skin of a ham. Fine your cook a rupee for this desecration and it will not occur again. The ham should either be dredged over as I have described, or, if wanted for a ball supper, wedding breakfast luncheon party, or grand picnic, it should be glazed. Old cookery books give you the funniest nostrums con- cerning the cookery of a ham ; wisps of hay, juniper berries, coriander seed, ale, and even leather shavings, are laid down as flavouring adjuncts. Saltpetre is advised to add to the redness, and in England you find local prejudices for the addition of different wines, in one county elder-wine, in another cowslip-wine, and so on. The end of all things, after all, is to get a really well cured ham, if you secure that, and cook it as I have described, you will not require any leather shavings, but remember that on important occasions a bottle of Madeivci crowns your best efforts with supreme success. Some of the best modem writers on cookery urge us to give up the salting of beef for boiling; “such a practice,” says one of them, “ cannot be too strongly condemned ; for whilst it impairs the wholesomeness of the meat, and makes it less digestible, it considerably diminishes the nutritive properties of it, and, boil it as you will, a piece of salt beef is never so tender as a piece of fresh beef.” We Ancdo- Indians can scarcely bring ourselves to follow this advice in its entirety ; our hump being in itself a spdcialite worthy of admiration in any land. Neither will Englishmen ever be prevailed upon to deny themselves those delicious slices of cold boiled salted silverside, with which they are wont to legale themselves at breakfast, and at luncheon at home. Nevertheless, small pieces of beef, boiled fresh with vegeta- bles are very acceptable. I do not, for instance, think that an Indian brisket is worth salting ; it generally comes to table hard, and dry, not having sufficient depth of flesh; boiled fresh, with the allowance of vegetables I have mentioned this joint will be found nice enough and if laid upon aCULTJ^^Y JOYYIJ'TGS FOI£ 56 bed of previously boiled maccaroni, and smothered in bright tomato sauce, you might indeed go further and hire worse. I fully agree with the old rhyme and I cannot understand any one so cooking that noble bird. A funny idea exists I know (one handed down from grand-mama) that if you give roast mutton or beef at a dinner party, the fowls or turkey must be boiled ! What absurd nonsense. You offer your guest the choice of white or brown meat, each dressed in its most tempting form, you do not bind yourself to give him roast, or boiled. If the white meat be equally nice boiled, like fowls, a leg of pork, a knuckle of veal, &c., you may, of course, so serve it, but don t run away with the erroneous notion that you must boil (and so spoil) your turkey because your other joint happen to be a saddle, or a sirloin. A turkey boiled is turkey spoiled,CHAPTER XIX. 9 * Our Vegetables. BRITICS on English cookery seem to agree in saying that, wanting as we are, as a rule, in our general knowledge of kitchen work, our ignorance of the treatment of vegetables is greater than in every other branch of the art. Until comparatively lateU, the universal method of serving vegetables at an English dinner table was with the meat alone. Dressed vegetables, or entremets de legumes, were never heard of. Of late years, however, facilities in the way of travelling abroad have been great, and by degrees the Briton has come to appreciate a dish of vegetables, specially prepared, such as he liked so much in Paris, at Monaco, or Pau ; and Martha has been “ worritted,” on the return of the family to England, to “mess about the cauli- flower with cheese,” or send up the green peas in solitary grandure. A fillip has, in this way, been given to vegetable cookery in England, and people with any claims to refined taste have at last come to perceive the absolute barbarism of heaping up two or three sorts of vegetables on the same plate with roast meat and gravy. From time immemorial tinned asparagus has occupied a prominent place in the menu of a dinner in Iudia : I have often wondered how this spark of civilization became kindled, and why the example thus given was nevermore generally followed with regard to other vegetables.9S CULIJWIIY JOttlJVGa F0% JtJLQUflB. It will be, I think, admitted nem con that we live in a climate out here especially demanding vegetable diet. With the thermometer indicating 90° or thereabouts, plain animal food is not only distasteful to many, but absolutely unwholesome. We cannot, therefore, devote too much atten- tion to the cookery of vegetables. Let us consider what we have got under three heads:— (a) —English vegetables grown in India. (b) —Country vegetables. (c) —Vegetables preserved in tins. At different periods during the year we can get in Madras:—potatoes, peas, cauliflower, cabbages, spinach, arti- chokes (Jerusalem), and globe artichokes from the Hills, French beans, carrots, turnips, knolkhol, celery, marrows, leeks, cucumbers, tomatoes, lettuces, beetroot, endive, and onions: all under head number one. Under head number two we have, brinjals, bandecai, various beans, country cucumber, and greens (which cook well as spinach), the moringa, small tomato or love apple, maize (mucka cholum) sorrel, pumpkin, yams, onions large and small, garlic, and sweet potato. For head number three, which we will take separately, we must consult the preserved provision list of any well known firm. I have omitted asparagus, seakale, parsnips, and salsify, from my list under the first head, as those excellent vegeta- bles have not yet been cultivated by the gardeners of Ban- galore or the Neilgherries in sufficient quantity to form a portion of the vegetable supply of our markets. For the benefit, however, of such enterprising amateurs as may be able to grow them privately, I will mention how each should be treated by the cook hereafter.99 OZJi? VEGEVflSLEa. Potatoes perhaps claim the most important place in our consideration, so let us take them first. The boiling of a potato has long been considered one of the tests b}T which the merits of a cook should be decided. “Can she cook a chop, and boil a potato?” is often the modest query of pater familias in England, and in nine cases out of ten you may wager your best hat that she can do neither. Nevertheless, I have come to the conclusion that cooks are in many cases wrongfully blamed in the matter of potato cooking ; that is to say, that their failure is often attributed to the wrong cause. We all know that the potato grows capriciously according to the weather it may have enjoyed, or have suffered from. A crop will sometimes prove mealy, and light, for the table, and at other times waxy, and heavy. It is therefore obvious that we should find out the merits or demerits of the tubers we buy, before we give our orders regarding their treatment in the kitchen. We ought not to expect all potatoes to turn out equally floury as a matter of course, and blame the cook if he fail so to serve them. There are fortunately so many ways of cooking potatoes that we need never be at a loss for a recipe. If nice and mealy we can, of course, boil, or steam them,—the latter method for choice,—but if waxy, we must proceed differently. Whether boiled, or steamed, a potato ought not to be peeled ; if very old you cannot avoid removing the skin and eyes, but, in a general way, a potato is far better cooked “ in its jacket.” When done, the skin can be removed, if you wish, in the kitchen, and the dish be served plain, or in any one of the ways I shall presently speak of. The “ G. C.,” says:—“After they have been carefully washed, put your potatoes, unpeeled, into a sauce-pan, filled with cold water to the height of about an inch, then sprinkle them with salt, and place a wet cloth on the top of them. The sauce-pan should be then put on the fire, and in about100 CULIJJJ1IIY JOttlJVGS FOIl MJLQIiJIS. half an hour, drawn upon the kitchener (at the side of the fire) to remain till the potatoes are wanted.” Choose potatoes as much of a size as you can for boiling: don’t boil a large and two small ones together if you can help it. When potatoes are boiled in the ordinary fashion ; that is, placed in a sauce-pan with a due allowance of salt, and covered well with cold water, they should be lifted, and drained after half an hour’s cooking, and then be returned to the hot, empty sauce-pan, covered with a wet cloth, and placed at the margin of the fire to keep hot, and to dry themselves thoroughly. New potatoes should be scrubbed, rubbed with a coarse cloth, and boiled or steamed according to taste, you cannot expect them to be very mealy, of course, and with some people their waxiness constitutes their chief charm. Having boiled our potato satisfactorily, let us see in how many ways we may serve it, presuming that we have turned it out as flourily as we could desire. First, of course, it maybe sent up plainly, either in its skin, or crumbled into the dish made hot to receive it. Secondly, it may be turned out upon a wire sieve, be rubbed through it with a wooden spoon, and dished plainly in that form as “ potato snow.” Lastly, it may be mashed, and I maintain, that true mashed potato can only be produced from a mealy tuber. A good way to mash potatoes is to work them well first, in the sauce-pan in which they were boiled, with a wooden spoon, adding as much butter as you can spare, a little milk, and some salt: when fairly well mashed, to pass them through the sieve so as to catch the knots, and then to form them as you like,—browning the mould in front of the fire or in the oven before serving. If you want to get that foreign taste, which many people fancy' in mashed potatoes, try the following method : when yToui potatoes are nicely boiled, and drained, turn them back101 OUif VEG-EZyigLES. into their sauce-pan, which, during the draining, you must rub well with garlic: go on as previously described, be liberal with your butter, and in addition to the milk, add a little stock from the soup kettle; a dust of pepper, and a little nutmeg, will complete the puree, for remember that mashed potato abroad goes by the name of puree de pommes de terre, and is not sent to table quite so stiffly moulded as ours. Mashed potato brings us to more elaborate forms of potato cookery, viz.:—d la Duchesse, d la j’aidit, croquettes, &c. “ Potatoes d la Duchesse” should be well worked through the sieve, enriched with the yolks of two or three eggs, and a gill of cream, and given a delicate flavouring of salt, pepper, nutmeg, and chopped parsley : then rolled into balls, either fried gently in butter, or browned in the oven on a buttered tin, being previously brushed over with white of egg. A la j’aidit:—A Bombay onion, boiled very soft, should be beaten, hot, with four times its bulk of potato; butter, milk, pepper, and salt should be added, and the whole passed through the sieve: roll this mixture into balls, and treat them as laid down for the Duchesses. Croquettes can be made of cold mashed potatoes left from a previous meal. You must work them very much as previously described, flavouring them with a little chopped parsley, a very little shallot, a little choptped thy me or marjoiam, or spices if you like: form them into rolls or tablets, and fry them a golden brown. The art of the cook will be made manifest by his presenting you with a tasty looking morsel, delicately flavoured. Change can, of course, be obtained by selecting herbs, &c., according to your pleasure. Waxy potatoes (with the exception previously mentioned oi new ones) should never be served plainly boiled: you102 CTJLTJ*fi*tY J OYYIJfG-S -FOi? MJiQP.fi 3. should direct them to be cooked in one of the following ways:—d la mattve d’hSicl, a la Lyonnaise, sautees, a VAme'ricaine, &c. Potatoes sautdes, (not to be confounded please with potato chips) should be treated in this manner :—Boil your pota- toes then slice them moderately thickly, aud toss them in butter in your frying pan till they brown nicely, pour the brown butter over them, and give them a dust of salt. For Maitre d’hotel proceed as above, adding a few drops of lime juice, and a heaped up table spoonful of chopped curled parsley. Potatoes d la Lyonnaise are achieved by first frying a Bombay onion (sliced fine in butter till it begins to brown) then adding your pieces of potato, tossing them till browned and finally giving them a dust of pepper. Potatoes d VAmericaine:—Cut up your boiled potatoes into thick slices : flavour a little milk with onion, spice, pepper, and salt; strain aud thicken it, as laid down for melted butter, with butter and flour, till you have a nice sauce blanche; place your slices of potato in this, and heat them up to boiling point: take the sauce-pan off the fire, stir in the yolk of an egg, add a large spoonful of chopped parsley, with a pat of butter the size of a rupee, and serve. Waxy potatoes, pressed through the sieve, and served like vermicelli,—a favorite dish of Kamasdmy’s,—ought never to be encouraged.♦ V eg etables—continued. MERE is perhaps no nicer way of serving potatoes with chops, steaks, grilled chicken, roast pigeon, &c\, than in the form of “chips.” An invalid, as a rule,' takes to this plain method of cooking the potato, and it is a quicker way of doing it than by any of the other recipes. In the first place, after washing the potatoes well, peel them, and slice them carefully a uniform thickness—about that of a rupee say—and spread them on a clean cloth to get rid of the moisture. Wipe them thoroughly, and spread a sheet of blotting paper ready for draining the chips here- after Now dissolve a goodly allowance of beef dripping (or whatever you use for frying with) in your saute pan, or shallow sauce-pan; when quite boiling, drop in your potato slices—there should be enough fat to completely cover them—and let them, as it were, boil therein ; watch them as they are cooking narrowly, turning and moving them about continually, and as soon as they assume the golden tint you want,—a nice pale yellow mind —lift them quickly from the fat, and let them drain on the blot- ting paper for a minute or two. When quite dry, turn them into a very hot silver dish (or garnish the dish, with which tney are to go, with them) and serve.104 CULIJTfiliY JOYYIJ^aa Foil The main points to note here are first the equal thickness of the slices, for if cut both thick and thin, the latter will be done quicker than the former, and it is no easy thing to fish out the pieces that have taken colour from those that have not. Drying the chips well is essential number two, plenty of fat the third, and careful drainage when done the fourth. Potatoes may be trimmed into various shapes,—filberts, dominoes, long narrow strips, &c., and cooked exactly as “ chips.” Uniformity in size is again necessary, and careful wipiim before cooking. The cook must be a bit of an artist too in°designing his patterns, or there will be sad waste in the cutting. Ignorant cooks are apt to confound “ potato chips, with j “fried potatoes:” this should be explained away, “dried potatoes” are slices of boiled potato tossed about in butter in the frying pan till lightly browned; the “ chips are slices of raw potato absolutely boiled in tat. Mock “ new potatoes” make a nice dish for a change, aud can be contrived out of a waxy tuber that refuses to be boiled flourily. Boil the potatoes as usual and when done, cut them into pieces the shape and size of a pigeons egg. make a flour and butter sauce blanche and put the pieces of potato into it. Heat up gently in the bain-marie pan, or dip the sauce-pan containing the potato m a laigei vess®1 filled with boiling water, and when thoroughly hot, sene. Chopped parsley, a coffee cupful of milk in which the yolk of an egg has been stirred, and a lump of butter, may be added at the last moment. “ Steamed potatoes” should be scraped, picked, and wiped, after having been set for five minutes or so in cold water : then place°them in the steamer over boiling water, and let them steam till done: the time may vary from twenty to forty minutes: the fork should go through them easfly (01 a skewer) if not, they are not done. A minute in a fast oven will dry them if needful.VE GEZyigLES—COJfTJfr UEQ, 105 In boiling potatoes in the ordinary method, it is a good thing to check the rate of cooking, every now and then, by adding a little cold water, and the time ought to be,—after boiling commences,—from eighteen to twenty minutes. < Peas may be boiled, cooked in the jar, or stewed; it is a sine qua non that boiled peas be young and fresh. You never get a dish of peas equal to those gathered in your own garden: those bought in the Indian market are, as a rule, tar too old, having been allowed to attain the largest size possible. I have eaten peas from my own garden at Bangaloie, and Secunderabad, as delicious as could be desired. They were small, because the pods were cut with their contents three parts developed, but for flavour and tender- ness, they could not have been better. During our winter season at Madras we can grow our own peas, and surely the trouble is slight when we consider the result. For boiled peas Put one quart of water with a tea spoonful of salt, one of sugar, and half an ounce of oreen mint on the firewhen it boils, pour in a pint measure of shelled peas; boil quickly; when done, drain, and turn them on to a frying pan with an ounce of butter, sprinkle a httle salt over them, work the pan till the butter melts, and is blended with the peas, then turn them on to a hot dish and serve. (Gouffe.) ’ Peas in the jar.”—This is to my thinking the best way of cooking peas. You get the whole flavour of them : they are rarely overdone ‘to a mash’ like boiled peas in clumsy hands often are, and even old peas become tender and eatable by such treatment. Having shelled half a pint f peas, put them into an old two-pound jam jar, with a screw , 1 a block tin can with a closely fitting top,—(the vesse must be completely closed) and put in with them a table spoonful of butter, a tea spoonful of salt a tea ^ T?der6d 8U^a d0zen ininfc leaves and a ve.y httle white pepper. Cover the vessel down tightly.106 cvLijtjiitY jozzijtg-b foii jtjioiijis. and immerse it in a stew-pan, or bain-marie pan full ot boilin» water : the peas should be examined in half an hour by which time they should be done. The French tinned peas are excellent when thus cooked; a quarter of an hour is ample: they should be drained from the * tin’ liquor, aud washed in ‘ two or three waters, as cook say ; that is, fresh water should be poured over them two or three times. The fresh butter, mint, &c., resuscitates the peas wonderfully. Old peas may be stewed thusPut a lump of butter into a stew-pan with a Bombay onion sliced, a bunch of mint and parsley, and a tea spoonful ot salt; coolc this awhile till the onions take a pale colour, and then add the peas, with as much water as will just float them : sim- mer this patiently till the peas are thoroughly tender, then take up the pan, strain the liquor, spread out the peas on a dish and pick out the pieces of onion ; now thicken the liquor with butter and flour, adding a pinch of sugar, and lastly the peas again : stir well, bring the sauce-pan to boiling point, and serve. But, after all, there is no way so good for turning old peas to a satisfactory account as the put ee For this, boil them as previously described, and then woi them through the sieve. When you have got them through, add butter, salt, a very little sugar, with a spoonful of cieam or good milk, and serve in a small mould. The flavour of lettuce is strongly recommended by some writers as a help to peas and onions are al^ advocated: the lettuce should be shred, and put in ,£• to start with, and the onion should go in udiole both be n removed when the peas are served. A slice of fat bacon a capital thing to slip in with “ jugged peas. Peas form a favorite entnmet alone ; they.should be ot course, carefully dressed, and served as hot as poss . The following styles are recommended 1, “ Petits pois au beurre,”—boiled, or jugged peas,107 VEGETABLES—COJTZIJJUEQ. served with a liberal allowance of fresh butter melted in a small sauce-pan, and mixed with them at the last moment. 2. Ala crime,, —a coffee cupful of boiling cream poured over them just as you serve. 3. “Au jambon,”—finely minced ham, tossed in butter and lightly fiied, mixed with boiled, or jugged peas. ft " lard,”—the same method, using bacon instead ol bam. ihe bacon atoms should be nice and crisp. 5. The “ puree.” i rench beans haricots verts, are well worthy of our attention for we can get them when other vegetables are out o season. They are, besides, the correct accompaniment of the i oast saddle, the roast loin, and, of course, of venison iNow there is a very common and very great mistake, which °ks especially—are prone to make in slicing the pods of this bean into thin strips: by doing this nearly all the flavour of them is lost. The pods should be simply trimmed all round to get rid of the fibre, and then plunged into boiling watera pinch of soda will preserve their be'mkeTwflh1w^and R leasfc,a tea-spoon of salt should be mixed with water. Having boiled them to your satis- factmn, you can serve them in the following excellent ways and always secure a nice entremet with them if you like dish m'eft^r ^wrTum the beans oufc into a h°t fluejy chopped ^ flour, IntnrXd Xt “ W nutmeg, stir into this the yolk of a raw e^ivA ^ ! hW,e three drops of lime juice, and add as abov^ g ^ °r10g CULIJJJlFtY JOttrpG-S FOI? JtJlQItflS. 3 “ Au sauce au from age.”—Make a, sauce blanche, enrich it with the yolks of two eggs and a little milk (or cream), dredge into it a table spoonful of mild grated cheese, and pour it over the beans piping hot. 4. “ Au lard.”—Mince some fat bacon with a little shallot, and' work them awhile in the sauce-pan : add the boiled French beans, toss them about for a minute or two, and serve. 5. “A la creme.”—Pour a coffee cupful of boiling cream over the beans. A well made tomato sauce, soubise sauce, or a rich veloute are all applicable to French beans: and a plain custard made of milk, eggs, and salt, assists them greatly. French beans, cold, make a capital salad : I must, however, reserve that form of serving them for discussion elsewheie. Cauliflowers, and all the cabbage kind, must be carefully washed, their dead and bruised leaves removed and then stalks trimmed neatly. They must then be soaked in salt and water, (cold) to get rid of insects, caterpillars, &c. When satisfied that they are fit to cook, ptonge them into boilino- water with a tea spoonful of salt, and a bit of sod and lift them as soon as your test with the skewer assures you that they are done. Pressure is now necessai| to t rid of the water, and when thoroughly drained they can sent up Cauliflowers and cabbages are equally well, if “ better done in the steamer, by which proa., the), do n t absorb so much water, so do not require such caiefu1^^"1 incr There are numerous methods of dressing greens, / bofiing or steaming them,-which ought to attrae ^ attention, and I can assure you that with you can turn out a most excellent senes of d.shes , winch*»H well repay you, and raise the lowly cabbage to a mu higher position in your estimation than it at piesent y occupy.CHTA.PTEI5 ♦ V eg etables—continued. EFORE I pass to the fanciful styles in which cabbflo'es can be dressed, I ought to call attention to a bad habit that the native cook often indulges in • I mean that of chopping up a plain boiled cabbage “before servino- lfc'■ setting aside the ugly appearance that the dish presents when thus maltreated, it is a wasteful practice. The chop- ped cabbage dries quickly, and will not be found worth dressing up a second time; whereas, if served whole the portion that may be left after dinner, will remain nice'and juicy, and form a rechauffe in the form of a puree with potatoes and butter for breakfast; or, tossed in butter in the wSirho;thsyminced herbs’ie wil1 be accePtabie 1. _ Here is a form of stewed cabbage that—if the head be nice and young_is worthy of being eaten alone — lake a savoy or any good sort of cabbage, pick it care- fully, and let it soak in salt and water for an hour; if a lar-m haddhpH-U mUSt dmfe !fc mfc0 (Warfcers> and even a small head I?® Slm* arlJ; treafced- When satisfied that the cabbage is thoroughly clean, plunge the quarters into boilint hot watei: after boiling for a quarter of an hour, take them out and drain them Now mince a thick slice of bacon and ittle shallot, parsley, marjoram and thyme, with a pinch Of sugar, pepper and salt to taste, put all in a stew parf and 10110 CTJLlJtJHlY JOWIJTGS POi? set it on the fire. As soon as the bacon melts, lay your cab- bage quarters in it, and pour round them sufficient gravy to half cover them. Let this simmer gently till the cabbage is done. Then lift out the quarters, place them in a hot dish, and cover them up. Strain the gravy, thicken it with flour and butter, and pour it over the cabbage. The better your cravy in this case, the better the result. If, therefore, you can spare some turkey bones, or scraps of game, ham, 01 tongue to assist your ordinary stock, your entremet wul^be all the nicer. 2 Another good way may be described as follows: Half boil your cabbage, take it out, and drain it Divide it into Quarters. Make a nicely flavoured sauce blanche (with a little cream if you can spare it) place the quarters in this, complete their cooking therein, and serve, pouring the sauce over them. S Cabbages may be cooked with rice, and gravy: Par- boil the cabbage, cut it up small, put the pieces with an equal quantity of half-boiled rice into as much gravy as will cover them, simmer till done, then serve. Dc>not put in more oravy than is absolutely necessary, or the dishwill turn o°ut more like a potage than an entremet. Grated cheese should be banded round with this. 4. A novel dish is recommended by a good authority' which may be described in this way:—Boil the head o cabbage tifl the leaves become pliant: take it from the water, aently detach a number of leaves whole and dry them on a clean cloth. Have ready some pounded quenelle meat of chicken and ham, or tongue with an anchovy, or aj artistic mixture of savoury meats bound with an e Arrange a dessert spoonful of this on a cabbage ea , roll carefully up in the form of a sausage: wrap two or three more leaves round this, and tie them up with white tape4 * 6 Make six, or eight of these, and simmer them gently insome good brown gravy till the leaves aie done. NoVE&E&fiSLEB—COJV&iprUEQ. Ill pick out your rolls, untie the tapes, dispose them tastefully in the hot dish ready for them, thicken the gravy and pour it over them: sippets of crisply fried bacon will form an appropriate garnish: serve. Brussels sprouts are susceptible of delicate treatment: they can be cooked according to recipe number 2 in white sauce, and also in the following methods :— b “ A la maitre d’hotel”:—boiled, tossed in butter in a sauce-pan, with some minced parsley and the juice of a lime sprinkled over them, and salt and pepper to taste. —“Ala Lyonnaise”:—mingled with a little onion, fried a golden tint, tossed together in the pan for a minute, and served hot. 3. " Au jus, :—gently simmered in rich brown gravy, not thickened, but slightly flavoured with spice. Au beurre, :—simply tossed in a good allowance of melted butter, with pepper and salt. 5.—“ A la crime”:— served with a coffee cupful of boiling cream poured over them. ° Greens of all kinds, especially sprouts, are exceedingly nice eaten plain with a tart are sauce accompanying them. A dressing of oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and minced shallot is so a appy way of improving them, and I can recommend you to try thiscut some slices of bread into fancy shapes or simple oblongs; fry them in butter a golden brown, spiead over them some minced greens, or pieces of sprouts, « hnf *Jlve them with a nice brown sauce, or with a layer of buttered-eggs on the top of the greens. Cabbages of all kinds can be served a la Vuree, and in that way make a entrle °me ^ S0UP> or a pleasant accompaniment to an kJdhe«^UlifliT/r iS’ °f C°Ur8e’ the <lueen of the cabbage Kind, and well deserves our most careful consideration. In112 IIOJISOT fiJJQ gOILEGP—COJT&IJTUEQ. plain treatment, what I have said for cabbages generally, holds o-ood for this vegetable also, viz :—draining in salt and water,° careful picking, and plunging into boiling water, with a tiny bit of soda to preserve the green tint of the leaves. When boiled, and you must watch them carefully lest they be overdone, you can serve cauliflowers with a variety of sauces. Cut the stalk flat so that the cauliflower can sit up, as it were, the flower in the centre, and the leaves round it, and pour about it a good tomato sauce, or a plain sauce blanche, bechamel, or sauce ptquante. Very small heads may be gently cooked, after being half-boiled, in sauce blanche; or the flower may be divided into sprigs, which can be cooked in clear gravy, and served with an the great dish to be studied thoroughly is cauliflower au aratin” This is as practicable with the remains of a cold boiled cauliflower, as with a fresh one Dispose the pieces of cauliflower in a dish that will stand the oven pour over them some melted butter: dust some grated cheese over them,pepper,salt,and grated nutmeg; bake for ten minutes, and serve. With a fresh cauliflower you must boil the head first till all but done, which you must test with a skewer, drain 1 thoroughly; then dissolve a good quantity of Paimesan 01 any mfld grated cheese, in a large cupful of sauce hla^e’ next arrange the flower to the best of your power ; either whole if large enough, or ifl pieces with the giee^ leaves introduced between each piece; pour the sauce well iou this dust a layer of cheese over the surface, bake, and serve as soon a^ the top takes colour: a hot iron passed closely over the surface of the dish will brown it nicely. For those who do not like cheese the following au flJgH is to be recommended -.-arrange your pieces of cauliflower as before explained, strew over them some fine stale: biead crumbs, with some olives, a few capers chopped up small; pour over this a cupful of meted.butei bake for ten minutes, and serve. Salad oil is bettei tha113 VEG-EZMLEB—COJTXIJVUEQ: melted butter, but I fear that my countrymen would shrink from such a ‘foreign’ suggestion. O DO Spinach is a thing which we can get in the most trying weather, and with common care no entremets de legumes are more delicate than those which we can achieve with this vegetable. Having selected the leaves carefully, wash them well, and boil them thoroughly in plenty of water, with a large pinch of salt, and a bit of soda; when done, turn them into a sieve, and set them to drain well: when drained, work them through the sieve : now mingle a little butter, with some flour, in a sauce-pan, add the spinach, stir over the fire a minute or two, give it a spoonful of cream, or the yolk of an dissolved in a little milk, pepper, salt, and a very little grated nutmeg (instead of cream you can substitute a spoonful of stock saved from the soup) then, when of a nice consistency, turn the spinach out on a good hot dish, garnish it with sippets of fried bread, or short-bread biscuits specially baked for the dish, and serve. I mix a little grated cheese with the short-bread paste which I think goes well with the spinach, and some give the least suspicion of sugar; I think that the savoury method is the better of the two. It is not at all necessary that you should make the puree, I have just given, always. If they are young and tender you can, after draining the leaves thoroughly, chop them up’ and serve them at once with a poached egg or two on the top of them ; or you can fry some slices of bread, butter them, and dress your minced spinach over them, with a cap butter ^ P1GCe °f " buttered'e§=>” or a Pat of maitre d'hotel A nice mild anchovy toast, kept hot in the oven and served with a layer of spinach over its surface is very nice : whxlst a httie mound of chopped spinach, garnished with hard boiled eggs, forms an attractive centre for an of cutlets. A pleasing looking entremet of spinach is114 GULIjNJlIiY JOYYIjfGS FOR JIJlQIlfiB. made by shaping the greens in a circle, and leaving a hollow centre to be filled with “ buttered-egg” coloured red with tomato-pulp. Endive may be treated ti la puree as I have desciibed foi spinach, and sorrel also. The young leaves of beetroot “ turnip tops” (leaves), and even water-cress are capable ot similar dressing. Sorrel is not half enough used. Your cook will know it if you order "sorley, — (Ramasamy s pronunciation of the double ‘ r’ being peculiar)—and nothing is nicer than a mutton (neck) cutlet with a sorrel puree, toi the pungent taste of the vegetable suggests a novelty to vour palate. My readers who are now enjoyiug themselves on the Neilgherries ought to try a dish of pork cutlets with a puree of sorrel, for with a rich white mea , sone is especially agreeable. I mentioned this vegetable in con- nection with potageala bonne femme when talking about soups, and I may add now that a plain gravy soup 11 ‘ ened, and flavoured with sorrel puree is far from bad. In cooking sorrel, a little sugar is essential. The Jerusalem artichoke is a vegetable, which as a rule people either dislike exceedingly, or are very fo™ place it amongst the best we have. Wash the artichoke^ peel and shape them nicely, dropping each one into salt^and water at once to prevent its turning black; when dl are ready put them into a sauce-pan with a gallon of cold water and two table spoonsful of salt; boil till tender winch will take about twenty minutes after boiling point has been attained) and drain, serving them with a nice sauce blanche. Or when three parts done, you can lift them up, and simmer them till quite done, in rich brown gravy. Or you can when half-boiled, drain them dry, arid bake them upon a well buttered tin, serving them with plain melted butter, a dressing of oil, vinegar, minced shallot and salt, or any sauce piquante you fancy.115 VEG-E^jflgLES—COJl^IJ^UEQ. But, like the cauliflower, the Jerusalem artichoke is wor- thy of any gourmet’s attention when sent up “ au gratin." The combination being a puree of plain boiled artichoke, bountifully diluted with cream, slightly seasoned with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; this, turned into a well buttered pie-dish, its surface dusted over with finely grated mild cheese, and the whole baked until the top takes colour. Good milk may take the place of cream, ora sauce blanche, but if perfection be desired, pray use cream. Another artistic method of doing this vegetable is this:— Cut up half a dozen large ones, after they have been three parts boiled, into long strips about a quarter of an inch thick, dip them in the batter I describe elsewhere, and try them a golden tint: these fritters are excellent; you can order them alone as an entremet, or pile them in a pyramid as the central garnish of an entree. Jerusalem artichokes can be served in a mould, iced with a mayonnaise sauce, or hot with a Parmesan, or nice white sauce. For the mould follow this recipe:—21bs. of the artichokes boiled in milk: £ pint of cream: four eggs: pepper and salt. Mash the artichokes, and pass them thlough the hair sieve, add the cream, the eggs well beaten up whites and all, and season with pepper and salt. Put the mixture into a well buttered mould, and steam it for one ! hour. Turn it out, and garnish it with tomato puree, Paimesan sauce, or a rich veloute. Or:—ice the mould, and turn it out with a cold mayonnaise sauce in a boat. The name of this excellent entremet here is “ Topinambouvs d la Chetput.”OHA.PTER 2SL2S1II. Vegetables—concluded. N DENI ABLY good as the Jerusalem artichoke is, it is of course, inferior to the globe or leafy, kind. * l _ . ' J J nl 1 PCI PI PQ nisfatt 111S>U1 cuuiac, xmwiui — ; 7 . , iv These are properly considered the choicest delicacies of the Neilgherry market by many people. A globe arti- choke, like a cabbage, must be well soaked in salt and watei to cret rid of the insects which may be hidden between the leaves Then it must be set head downwards m boiling water,' with soda and salt, and boiled till the leaves, part from the core. When done, you must drain it, and dish it hot. a little melted butter in which a few drops of vinegar, oi ] lime juice have been introduced, forms an agreeable sauce. There are several ways of serving globe artichokes which ; T of course dedicate to my readers who happen to be < stay in f on the Hills. First let me give you directions for the trimming of an artichoke secundum artem. Place , the vegetable head downwards on a hoard: with a sharp knife at once cut it straight down, dividing each half so obtained so that you have four quarters: next paie out the ‘choke’ which adheres to each quarter, (as you would core an apple) and trim off the leaves leaving about an eighth of an inch of them unsevered from the stem : diop each piece as you trim it into cold water in which a lime has been squeezed, or a table spoonful of vinegar Pouied> to prevent its turning black, and when you have prepared enough for the dish you require, throw the quarters mto117 VE&EXJIBLES—COJTCLUQEQ. boiling water with a dessert spoonful of salt, and a spoonful of vinegar; and in about fifteen minutes, when nearly done, lift them out and drain them. They may be now finished in these several ways:— 1. —As “ beignets”:—by being dipped in batter, and fried in boiling fat till of a bright golden tint. 2. —Or,—“au sauce blanche,” in which they should be gently simmered. 3. —Or,—“ d la maitrS cl'hStel” :— tossed in butter, and served on a hot silver dish, with the melted butter, and a squeeze of lime juice poured over them, and a sprinkling of curled parsley. 4. —Or,— " au gratin”:—the pieces neatly disposed upon a silver dish, with a little gravy round them to keep them from burning, dusted over with very finely sifted bread- crumbs, chopped mushroom, parsley and a little shallot, pepper, salt, and a piece of butter on the top of each piece, then baked for ten minutes and served hot. 5. —-Or,—“d I’ltalienne” :—as in foregoing, substituting a dusting of mild grated cheese for bread-crumbs,omitting the mushroom and chopped herbs, and merely adding the pepper, salt, and butter. 6- Or, “ a VEspagnole,” :—gently simmered in rich brown sauce. Or> “a let Lyonnaise”:—the pieces crisped in the oven very carefully, piled upon a hot silver dish, and a nch brown sauce (with finely minced onion fried, and a tablespoonful of minced parsley incorporated therewith) poured over them. Cold boiled artichoke bottoms can be mashed up with cream, and a little butter, flavoured with a few drops ofCULIJJjllfY JOYYTJsTG-S FOR J^JLQTUIB. lltS anchovy essence, seasoned with pepper and salt, and baked in a little pie-dish. Or, the mixture can be placed inside little pastry patties (like oyster patties) and served on a napkin. This latter method is equally practicable with Jerusalem artichoke puree, and will be found (if your cook can make light pastry) very nice indeed. Remember when writing your menu, with regard to these two vegetables, that the ‘ artichaut’ is the globe or leafy kind ; the Jerusalem artichoke should be called ‘ topinambouv. Turnips, knolkhol, carrots, and parsnips do not require much discussion; it should be remarked, howevei, that when nice and young all are worthy of attention, especially as garnishes for entrees, stews, &c. Think of appearance when serving them, and shape the roots into little cones, 01 ovals, of an equal size. I have seen a dish of turnips served a la creme which was worthy of separate service as an entre- met: the roots had been cut into pieces and shaped about the size of a bantam’s egg, boiled to a turn, and served with a coffee cupful of boiling cream poured over them to finish with. Small ‘ early’ carrots and parsnips may be trimmed a uni- form size, boiled gently, and finally tossed in butter, in a frying pan, with pepper, salt, and some finely powdered sugar. The French dish of young turnips called navets glaces ou^ht to be very popular. Trim the turnips into shapes like small pears, or cones, and boil them till nearly done in salt and water; drain them, and put them into a sauce-pan with plenty of melted butter, and sprinkle them bountifully with powdered sugar, stir gently over the fire until they begin to brown, and then add a spoonful or two of clear stock: pepper, salt and a little cinnamon is now given, let them simmer till quite tender and serve them in their own sauce, it is also recommended by some to let the sugar form a sort o caramel round the turnips before adding the stock: in that case you must put the turnip pieces (when the caramel stacre has been reached) into a separate sauce-pan, wash outVEGEQ£BLE8—C0]<rGL UQ'EQ. 119 the first one with a little stock pom* that over them, and stew gently as in the other recipe. Caramel is, of course, sugar slowly melted over the fire, till it has attained a rich brown tint. Parsnips, knolkhol and small round onions, (of the size usually pickled) are susceptible of similar treatment, and any brown entree may be garnished with vegetables glace's in this form. The purge of turnips with cream is, of course, well known, and all root vegetables make tooth- some additions to your ordinary dish of meat, or cutlets, as purees, or mixed cunningly as a macedoine de legumes. The vegetable marrow and the cucumber are in their turn not to be passed over. I think the best general way of cooking them is to boil them till all but done, then to lift, and drain them, removing the seeds, and shaping them into fillets, &c., as desired. You can then heat them up in a previously made white, or brown sauce flavoured to taste, and, as soon as tender, serve. The cucumber should, of course, be peeled before boiling. Vegetable marrow is also worthy of a place amongst entremets de legumes, when served “au gratin’’ baked in layers of fillets, in a little stock, and dusted over with grated cheese; or as “ beignets” dipped in batter, and fried a golden brown in boiling fat. An uncommon dish with a marrow is that called “mock whitebait—You parboil the marrow, and then cut it up into a number of pieces about the size of the wVdfohai'f quarters. Handed round with brown bread and butter.stuffed plainly, or with sheeps’ kidney, as I have described CULIFJ1IIY JOZZIJTG-S FOX cold, in its raw state, and eaten as a salad, or, in the form of puree as a soup, or sauce,—“ au gratin’’ as an entremet, with maccaroni,—with fish, or with other vegetables, as a garnish,—the tomato never fails to be a welcome friend. In Italy, Spain, and Southern France, it forms a staple part of the daily food of all classes, and I believe that I am right in sayino- that it is a very wholesome vegetable in a hot climate. I cnve you elsewhere several dishes in which tomatoes play an important part, I will, therefore, confine myself to two excellent recipes for serving them as an entremet. “Au gratin'’:—Cut a slice off the top of each tomato as you would decapitate a boiled egg. With a dessert knife scoop out the pulp and seeds from the shell as well as you can, put the cases so obtained on one side: make a puree with the scooped out pulp, flavour it nicely like tomato sauce and thicken it with fine bread crumbs : beat up some eggs (one for every two cases) and mix the whole well; add pepper and salt, stuff the cases therewith, give the surface of each a light dusting of grated cheese, bake on a buttered dish toi ten minutes, and serve. “A l’ Italienne”:—Cut the tomatoes in halves, empty them, and place them on a baking dish upon which you have poured a little of the best salad oil. Make a mixture of JJrated ham, bread-crumbs, some finely minced shallo , parsley, marjoram, and thyme, seasoned with pepper and salt; mix this with the tomato pulp and fall the cases covering them completely, shake an allowance of salad oil “ drops over all, aiid bake for a few minutes, serving the dish intact as it comes from the oven. The proportion of crumbs to the ham should be two spoonsful of the forme , to one of the latter, the flavouring herbs, &c., to taste at discretion.—Chopped anchovies, olives, capers, mushiooms and truffles, can be introduced it at hand, and buttei (melted) may be used by those who do not like oil. The “ Bombay” onion can be made a good deal of either121 VEGETABLES— COJTOL UQEQ. in my menus, and whether plainly boiled, or stewed, cannot fail to please those who are fond of them. A very presentable dish is made of them “ ctu gratin’’ in this way:—boil them till tender; cut them up as finely as possible and mash them, mix the pulp well, adding a coffee cupful of cream, or milk enriched with the yolk of an egg, pepper, and salt. Put it into a shallow pie-dish, strew a layer of grated cheese over the surface, and bake for a few minutes till the top takes colour. You must, of course, butter the pie-dish, and also pour a little melted butter over the cheese. Salsify—(scorzonera)—is an edible root which we oimht to grow abundantly in India. 1 do not know whether any of our horticultural societies have yet introduced it or not; in case it may have been grown, Intake the opportunity of recommending the previous recipe as equally applicable to the mashed roots of this plant; it has a very perceptible flavour of the oyster (is indeed called the “ oyster plant” in America) and forms a delicious entremet. The roots peel easily when boiled, and the pulp is as white as snow. Simply mashed with cream, and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, with a covering of bread-crumbs strewn over it, and a little melted butter, then baked till brown, and served, salsify presents an exact imitation'of “ oysters scalloped.”’ Salsify pm ee with cieam, can be served wherever oyster sauce is recommended; and as a white soup {puree) it can be sent up as a bisque d’hllitres. Asparagus, and seakale, if procurable, need to be carefully boiled dramed, and served au naturel, with sauce blanche JJutch sauce, or a nice salad sauce of oil, vinegar, pepper' and salt. There is a custom followed by ignorant English as well as native cooks, of placing a slice of toasted bread in the dish destined to receive a bundle of asparagus, &c., over which a plentiful bath of white tasteless flour and water is finally poured. The toast is utterly unnecessary, and the sauce ought invariably to be handed round, piping hot, in a boat. A few drops ol lime juice or tarragon vinegar should be stirred into 11!SS OTJLIflfiZr JOWIJtG-B FOi? JljlQRJLS. the sauce blanche. The asparagus should be laid carefully m the hot dish, and a pat of butter placed on top of it to melt over all. Tinned asparagus should be treated exactly in tie same way : after having been drained, gently washed (by pouring Jold water over it) and heated up in the bain-marie pan or in its own tin (drained and washed placed in a vessel of hot water, the water reaching about half-way up t S Care should be taken avoid over-doing tinne^ asparagus, and in turning it into the dish also, lest it biea The oreen ends of asparagus-" points d'asperges” form an artistic accompaniment to an entree, they-arc when added to a clear soup, and make a very supeib pure■ . « Asparagus peas” are made by chopping the green ends of the shoots into dice, and treating them then as peas. Tinned French beans, carrots, &c., should be washed, tossed in butter until hot, and served, or heated up in white or brown sauce. They make excellent purges, and may be cooked as laid down for macedoine de legumes. T have the highest respect for all country vegetables, and ^ pookin°" brinials, bandekai, gieens, artistic t—t a from the r°"”S/0^t^ peppereT salted and served. Plently'of batter is a sine qud non Or the corn may be stripped off after boiling, and similarly treated. r r +V.A “ fluffin’’ bean downwards, S:rp^e°d»/totdt butter, and Served: or they may be sent up as a puree somewhat stiffly woi For country greens, follow the receipts given for spinach, sorrel, endive, and turnip tops.123 VEGE<?JtgLE8—C0jr.CLUQEQ>. A vegetablecanbegotcalled (locally) “mollay” thebranches or stalks of which are edible, ("mollay Jceeray”)—treated as laid down for asparagus, you will find this worth trying: serve it with a nice sharp sauce in a boat. Young pumpkins, “ dil-pussund,” or marrows, gathered prematurely (when the size of a duck’s egg) boiled, and served as described for artichoke bottoms, are exceedingly nice. In short, if we look about us, and try our best to make the most of the vegetables of the country, by careful cookery of the reformed school, we need never be without a pleasant dish to relieve the ding dong monotony of our market supplies. The more you hunt about amongst the produce ol the native gardens, the more surprised you will be at the opportunities afforded you of practising your culinary ingenuity. For over a century we have been contented to see a few country vegetables sent up in curries, and iu curries only, never attempting to develope their latent good qualities by artistic treatment. There are times when the supply of vegetables grown from English seed may fail us, or when we cannot expect to pro- cure them ; when on the line of march, for instance, out in the jungles, or when quartered at some little place far from the busy haunts of our fellow white men; the amateur who has studied native vegetables will then discover that his time has not been thrown away. N-R All vegetables, when served plainly dressed, derive the utmost improvement if a pat of mabtre d’hStel butter be laid upon them when they are dished. The butter, of course, melts of its own accord as the dish is being sent up.CHAPTER XXIII- Rechauffes. s F the art of dishing up nicely the remains ot cold meat, fish, and vegetables, were more closely studied than it is, the fair chatelaine would not look upon r X'IIcLLjL lb lOj viic ~ , • ,•% . cold mutton, cold beef, &c.f with the feelings of despair that I fear too often possess her; there would be much less wastefulness 3 and our breakfast and luncheon tables would be far more easily supplied than they are Has not some thriftv professor of kitchen lore actually dedicated a little book to the mysteries of cooking cold mutton and how to penetrate them ? I have never seen the work. but^with. I think X could fill a couple of chapters myself upon a similar theme. The mistake most of us make is one on the side ot same- ness We pick up a tasty recipe for warming up fish a cunnum method of treating cold vegetables, or a marvellously good wrinkle about a hash, and ring the changes or u 0 nil a+nplr of knowledge ad nauseam. The most aitistm Tschauffe will lose its charm if repeated too often, an t >e ;feat&pecia.ly the Anglo-Iudian ap^Ute-soou tu- that aanVa°ti« cooks ve ^ronf“"his ' oo^tool^ateririt which alf likely t° minister to his faUing. ^et aiyjouv tiSS that are necessaryifE CHjL TJFFE 8. 125 for delicate flavouring. If \tou do this, your hashes will cease to be slices of meat, cooked up iu hot-water and Worcester sauce, thickened with flour; neither will your mince, croquettes, rissoles, &c., be presented with a sauce similarly composed. There are certain hard and fast laws to be observed gene- rally with regard to the treatment of cold meat, etc., which ought never to be forgotten. Let me enumerate them :— 1. Always cut off carefully all parts that have been browned in the previous cooking, such as skin, &c. 2. Use the trimmings, and all bones, assisted by any- thing you may have to spare, to make the strongest broth you can for your rechauffe. 3. Be generous in jmur allowance of butter and eggs and, if recommended in the recipe you are following, do not refuse a small modicum of cream. 4. Never be without red-currant jelly, olives, anchovies, pated cheese, grated bread-crumbs (bottled), mushroom ketchup, good vinegar, bottled garden herbs, and a mild sauce like Harvey. •5. Try to maintain a little kitchen garden, in large pots, or boxes, containing English curled parsley, marjoram thyme garden-cress, and celery. The last need not be planted for its root’s sake, the leaves and stalks provide the cook with his flavouring agent. 6. Teach your cook that meat that has been once cooked does not require to be boiled or stewed de novo. Describe a hash or a mince to him as meat gently warmed up in gravy or sauce separately made to receive it. You must now turn back to Chapter XIII in which I tried to explain the fundamental principles of sauce making.126 CULIJfJtll'Y JOZZIJJG-S FOR JAflQFtflS- The success of the ridumfi "'holly depends upon the care bestowed upon the composition of the sauce m -h*hj is heated up; Of by which .t .. enriched and diluted. This maxim holds good no matter what your_d.shmay b. the hash, the salmi, the mince, the croquette croustide,, >* sole, little patty, kramoushy, See., &c, all lean up Espagnoie or Veloute as the case may oe. Cold fish of all kinds give us valuable materials foi little breakfast dishes. Fairly large slices of firm fish not over boiled in the first instance, may be advantageous]) warmed up whole, in nicely made white* 01 10^ f flavoured according to taste, and accompanied by pieces o cooked cucumber, or vegetable marrow But crumbled, it is better to work it up Jnt° or croustades. Broken fragments of co s allowance when added to, and tossed about with a goodly of “ buttered-eao- ” This can be served on toasts, 01 POUI« out upon 1 silver dish. A colouring of tomato sauce ,3 an improvement. Another tasteful way of serving cold k cut a'hlt small pieces, like a coarse mince, and toss it ^out sauce-pan containing some previously b“lled; ™ “““ stirrincr in with it a bountiful supply of melted buttei and a «e" tomato puree (or sauce); when the■ ta of the rra; stimulating may fancy some chopped green chdhs some So” m; o< the evil one. 1C CVll unto. Cold fish is almost invariably presented to you by Rama- samy in the form of what he is pl^ed ‘o call^ he nnddino- ” This is sometimes nice, and sometimes v } Sst =To be nice, a good deal of buttotoooi butte. please, not four annas-a-cup-composition, o 3127 ItEGMfiTJFFEB. pardon,”) is necessary, a little cream, or some fresh milk helped up with the yoke of an egg, and a few drops of anchovy sauce; Ramasamy being at the same time entreated not to make the mould into a pretty pattern with quarters of hard boiled egg, &c., an effect which cannot be achieved without free use of his finger and thumb. " Twice- laid, as this dish is called at Home, cannot be sent up better than in a simple mould like mashed potato, streaked with a fork outside, and baked till it takes a pale brown tint. Chopped hard boiled egg may be stirred into the fish and potatoes with advantage. “ Kegeree” of the English type is composed of boiled rice, chopped hard boiled egg, cold minced fish, and a lump of tiesh butter: these are all tossed together in the frying pan, flavoured with pepper, salt, and any minced garden herb like cress, parsley, or marjoram, and served “ smokino- hot ’ If your cook be a good hand at puff-pastry, you mmht aie worse at luncheon than by having petits pates" of minced fish made for you. The salpicon must be diluted with a rich sauce, and flavoured with whatever herb you like best. A far off thought of celery is not to be despised. For the sauce in which you mean to re-cook fish, do not rorget the bones and trimmings. A broth made of fish bones with a few pepper corns, a sliced boiled onion, a bit ° ce eiy a piece of lime peel, and an anchovy instead cf set 3 ie ds you a capital liquid which, when worked up wi i melted butter and flour, generally produces a favour- able impression. Ihe chief features to be noted in cooking hashes and minces are much the same. Prepare the meat, after having caiefully cut off all browned parts, as you may desire° Make the best broth you can with the trimmings and bones • sl.AhthxaIndaifly sfcock or gravy so much the better; thicken maten-iis tb,tflaV0Ur lhlS aefrdlng to your taste, and the neCeSSary and tu7 W,thm your ,-eachJ strain it if necessary, and then warm up your meat. A mince or a12$ <3UIjIJTJ1I{Y JOYYlJTGrS FOT£ J/LjlF) Irish should be allowed to stand in its sauce, with a gentle heat under the sauce-pan, for as long a time as can be allowed; when required for the table, increase the heat, and the moment the surface steams, the dish is ready for set vice. “ But,” says the inquisitive disciple, wnat^o^hhn ? ^ fanoy.Vke all the skin and ugly dZ.“ a and place _ them on a p- njace a a0od sized sauce- "fhTZVa pat of hut Jat the W oMt^say a couple of ounces if you ^ ®1^®. ^ „ iden brown, add throw in the minced onion hyit*» of meat, water now gradually and throw i y teal.spoonful 0f some pepper corns, a tea-spoon^ of salt, an anchovy a celery ^U^and ^ k of curly parsley, the peel o < ,’n0nful of vinegar and let walnut ketchup, with a de9selnfc;S^ you are the contents ot your sauce-pan . out satisfied that you have extract^l alHheo cook. of your several ingredients Taste thermo ^ ^ ^ ing, and correct any enois a and skim off any spot: when ready, stia t another sauce-pan, and go fat that may rise. Now take ;a ifc will through the usual process **™™*Z* to re-cook, then be ready to receive thi mea J ^ utfc]e red currant A table-spoonful of Madena Burcmndy if at hand; jelly, and Portwine; ®fte seined yolk, of the pulp of a eoupleof ; h ,,’om. plat. The egg should two eggs, may be added to ennc ^ removed from the be stirred in after the sai -P aq hashes, and minces, fire. The tomato gives b^vinegars. Your ennorinr to that which can be pi oculea_„-;, , unon fire. The tomato gives a P1^"^ ,ed by vinegars. Your superior to that which can P d end 0f course, upon selection of the wine you use mu t depend, the sort of meat you are cooking up. C SU1 0 W1 J Having made a nice mince you can diversify the met 10 s of serving it as followsItEOHfiUFFEB. 129 1. Make a nice omelette, turn it out into a hot silver dish, (flat) pour your mince on top of the omelette, coax the sides of the omelette over the mince and serve. This must not look like a If roly-poly” pudding. The omelette need not be made as stiff as a batter dumpling as Ramasamy loves to serve it. I will tell you how to make an omelette properly in my next chapter. 2. Make a case of mashed potato, with high sides like a vol-au-vent case, and pour your mince into it. o.• Hollow out a number of small dinner rolls, butter them, and fry them a golden yellow: pour your mince into them, put a curl of fried bacon on the top of each, heat them in the oven for five minutes, and serve. 4. Make a number of little potato cases, and fill them in the same way: or if you have them, use the paper or china cases so universally used in England now. 5. Make some light puff-paste, form it into patties like oyster patty pastry, fill them with the mince, bake, and serve. G. Serve it plain, on a hot dish, with sippets of fried bread, fried curls of bacon, slices of lime, and a poached egg or two on the top of it. With reference to the above, remember that toasted bread is not fried bread. Ramasamy is not apt to distinguish very carefully between the two ; and whereas a crisp piece of fried bread is an agreeable adjunct to certain dishes; sodden, slightly smoked toast is inexpressibly disagreeable anywhere. Bacon is valuable with all rechauffes of meat, and poached eggs aie acceptable with hashes, and minces. Ham, I need scarcely say, if on hand, can be turned to the very best account, and tongue also, for that matter, to assist theto the Chapter I have reserved for it. ISO culijtjh?y jo&rijva-B foj? mjiQZM- flavouring of minces, rissoles, et hoc genus omne Minced ham or tongue, with minced corned beef, mashed up with some well boiled potatoes, hard boiled egg and plenty of melted butter, and cooked in the fashion ot twice-laid, is a nice dish for a change at breakfast. Maccaroni, and dustings of Parmesan (or any mild grated cheese) vary the monotony of wanned up meats im“e“a ^ and go well with nearly every cold vegetable. T,y tins sometimes:—Having made a really good white sauce, lay your trimmed fillets of cold fish, rabbit or chicken tlie eng ?n“ shallow pie-dish ; place a layer of rinaccavonr boiled till tender, on the surface of the meat, garnish ‘hat 'vl slices of tomato, dust over ali a dresninff -of f eese bake till licrhtly browned, and serve. Phe same lecipe is practicable with brown meats, only make a brown sau start with, instead of a white. or‘ % be dipped in melted butter, and broiled over a or thev mav be marinaded (vide Chaptei X ,) underdone. Apropos of batter, 1 must not forget to say, that funded fish,incorporated with batter^ thaVsa\°h®a^ixtire into the and fried in seething tat by diopp' 1 o flitters most pan by spoonsful at a time, produces a dish welcome at breakfast alone, or capital as a garn.sh ta a,1. dish of fish. For the mixing ot trying battel piopeilj,181 tfECHjff. UFFES. Cold vegetables, such as cauliflower, cabbage, Jerusalem artichokes, and vegetable marrows, may be mashed up with potatoes, or alone, diluted with melted butter, cream, or milk with the yolk of an egg strained into it, and cooked aw gratin. Mixed vegetables may be cut into dice and warmed up in white sauce ala macedoine de legumes, and cold peas, cauliflower, French beans, and cabbage may be tossed in butter in a frying pan, and served a la mdilre d’liotel. I think that you will find a good many recipes for the treat- ment of cooked vegetables in the three chapters I have given upon that especial subject, so I need say no more abouUhem in this one on rechauffes.CHA.PTER Z2ZL3ZLT -V. The Savoury Omelette. TtEATHES there a man with soul so dead” that he j can read the great Brillat Savarin’s account of the \ Cure’s omelette unmoved ? Short as the little story ; is, you feel yourself absolutely at table with the worthy | padre,—a man of culture, and refinement. It is Friday, and the little banquet is kept strictly within the canons of the j Church, yet there is an artist’s hand apparent in its subtle J simplicity. The fish soup, the trout, the omelette, the salad, I the cheese, and dessert; the snowy cloth, the choice china, j and the “ old wine which sparkled in a crystal decanter,” tell us plainly that science, and good taste, can make even j a fast enjoyable. But amongst all the daintiness which j marks the little banquet, that omelette is undoubtedly the • prominent feature. You can see it, you can smell it, 3 ou 1 can almost taste it. Now there is something cheering in this little chaptei. We can throw ourselves back in our long arm chair, and, , with half closed eyes, malce that very omelette, here in India., Or one so very like it, that we need hardly lament our inability to procure carp’s roes. This I hope presently to show you. There is another source of satisfaction in our musing and that is, that with moderate forethought we ought "never to be unable to make a good savoury omelette, whether in camp, at a public bungalow, at a picnic, or in the privacy of our back verandah in cantonment. Eggs, thoug 1183 <?HE SjflVOUItY QJ&ELEZQE. neither, as cheap, nor as plentiful as in days of yore, are still to be got: we can obtain charcoal, and a broken chatty to hold it: we can get an iron omelette pan, made to order, in the bazar: we need never be without a tin of “Normandy,” “Denmark,” or “cow brand” butter; or, failing that, a bottle of the best salad oil: salt, pepper, and a bottle of dried parsley ought not to be beyond our reach, and an onion is not an expensive luxury. Thus provided, we ought to be in a position to turn out a capital dish, very rapidly, at any time, and any where. Omelettes, as you all know, can be diversified ad libitum: we need never, therefore, be afraid of falling back upon them. Before I proceed to the discussion of omelette-vosk.- ing, however, let me point out that Ramasamy has been led astray altogether with regard to this branch of his art. He sends you up a very nice pudding, symmetrical in design, of a goodly consistency, and of a rich brown colour. You i almost require a dessert knife to help it. It is, of course, lighter somewhat, than a ‘ roly-poly’ pudding made of paste, but it greatly resembles that homely composition. It is a first cousin of the pancake, and Ramasamy evidently uses the stuff of which it is made to dip his plantains into when bidden to make fritters. He starts wrongly to commence with, when mixing his omelette: in addition to the e^s —(the whites of which he whips separately) he puts in°a little flour, some milk or a little water, and, in point of fact, niiil^Bs a li0htisb sort of batter. This, I regret to say, he fries in a fair amount of ghee, folding it into shape, and keeping it on the fire till it is nice and firm, and coloured as I before described. That this is no more an omelette than our old friend “ the man in the moon” I need hardly assure you. Native cooks are nevertheless very easily taught how to make one properly, and rarely fail after a patient exem- ! phfication of the correct method. I must confess that with the exception of “ the Curd’s omelette” previously alluded to, I never picked up a wrinkle concerning this excellent dish from a book. I have never 12134 CULIJT^I{Y JOYYTJIGS FOIl JAfiQRfiB. coine across a dissertation on omelette-making which seemed to have been composed by a man who had made one himself. The manner in which I learnt the little I know on the subject was as follows:—I was marching with a Regiment from Bangalore to Secunderabad. At a place called Pennaconda in the Bellary District, I was most hospitably entertained by a member of the Madras Civil Service. Though so far away from any civilized place, the dinner placed before me in the quondam public bungalow in which my host resided, might have graced a ‘petit table in the stranger’s room of a London Club. His breakfast was an equally artistic meal, and was concluded by an omelette,—made on the spot,—by my accomplished friend himself. If this imperfect essay happen to catch his eye, he will, I am sure, forgive the honest tribute of his grate- ful pupil. Calling for a slop-basin, he broke into it four ordinary country fowl’s eggs whole, and added the yolks only of two more. He thus had six yolks, and four whites. These he thoroughly mixed by using two forks : he did not beat them at all. When thoroughly satisfied that incorporation had been effected, he flavoured the mixture with a salt spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of very finely minced shallot, a heaped up table-spoonful of minced curly parsley (grown in his garden) and—to crown all—a table-spoonful of really rich cream. He stirred this for a minute, and, as far as its first stage was concerned, the omelette was ready. We now left the dining-room for the verandah where there was a good charcoal fire in an iron bra- sier, (a half chatty would have sufficed of course) and upon it a pan about ten inches in diameter, very shallow, with a nar- row rim well sloped outwards. A pat of butter was melted in the pan, sufficient in quantity to thoroughly lubricate the whole of its surface, and leave a coating of moisture over all. As soon as ready, quite burning hot,—the butter having ceased to splutter, and beginning to brown,—with one good stir round, the mixture was poured into the pan. At the moment of contact, the under part of the omelette formed, this was rapidly lifted by the spoon, and the unformed portion allowed to run beneath it; the left hand, holding the&HE SJ1V0UIIY QMELEWE. 135 pan>and P-a37ing it, as it were, from side to side: With one good shake, the pan (in less than a minute from the time of commencing operations) was lifted from the fire, and its contents rolled off into the hot silver dish at hand to receive it, in which a little melted butter, with some minced parsley and shallot, had been prepared. The omelette, as it rolled from the pan, caught up, and buried within it the slightly unformed juicy part of the mixture which still remained oil the surface, and, as it lay in the dish, was without any special shape, of a golden yellow colour, flecked with green, with the juicy part escaping from beneath its folds. An omelette ought never to be stiff enough to retain a rolled appearance. Being so rapidly cooked, it ought to be too light to present a fixed form, and, on reaching the hot dish, should spread itself rather, on account of its very frothiness. Books that counsel you to turn an omelette, to let it brown on one side, to let it fry for about five minutes, &e., are not to be trusted. If you follow such advice you will only produce, at best, an egg pudding. The omelette I have tried to describe is that generally known as “ aux fines heroes' : the ordinary one is simply made of eggs flavoured with salt. Though cream is an improvement, or, in its absence, a spoonful of milk, neither are essential. I confess that I like a very little minced onion in all savoury omelettes, but that is a matter of taste, and where ladies are concerned, the fragrant bulb ought perhaps to be omitted. The general rules to be observed in omelette-making, then, may be thus summed up: 1. Use a proper utensil, with narrow, well sloping sides. iw "^° no^ ovei’d° the amount of butter, or salad oil, that you use for the frying. • n°t heat the eggs, and never use more than six (as in the Pennaconda Omelette). It is better to make two of six, than one of twelve ewes. OO Three eggs, mixed whole, make a nice sized omelette.186 CULIfJJlIlY JOttlffG-S FOJ? IfiB. r 5. Be sure that your pan is ready to receive y^ur mixture. If not hot enough, the omelette will be leathery, or you will have to mix it in the pan like “ scrambled eggs.” G. The moment the butter ceases to fizz, and assumes a brown tint, the pan is ready. 7. Instantly lift up the part of the omelette that sets at the moment of contact, and let the unformed mixture run under it; repeat this if the pan be very full, keep the left hand at work with a gentle see-saw motion to encourage rapidity in setting, give a finishing shake, and turn it into the hot dish before the whole of the mixture has quite set. S. The omelette will roll over of its own accord, if the sides of the pan be sloped as I have described, it will not require folding. 9. A minute is ample for the whole operation, if the pan be properly hot when the mixture is poured into it. 10. Have the hot dish close by the fire, so that you can turn the omelette into it instanter. A little melted butter, with some chopped parsley, may, with advantage, be put into the dish. As I said before, omelettes may be varied in many ways. If “ aux fines herbesf curly parsley and shallot are neces- sary ; minced marjoram or thyme, garden-cress (the compa- nion, I mean, of mustard) or celery leaves, are agreeable, and many are fond of a spoonful of finely chopped green chilli, omitting the seeds of course. Chopped ham, chopped tongue, chopped bacon, and chopped corned beef are added to omelettes with good effect. The words “ au jambon, “an lard,” “au langue de bceuf,” &c., specify the addition. I have found it better to fry the minced ham, &c., independent)}, keeping it handy for addition to the omelette during the rolling over stage, as it goes into the dish.137 <?HE SJ1V0UI?Y OJrfELEYZE. Cold cooked vegetables, tossed a while in melted butter separately, may be thus added with success. I recommend pieces of the flower of the cauliflower, artichoke bottoms cut into dice, or Jerusalem artichokes sliced, and cut up. Peas, the grains of Indian corn, chopped French beans, or the seeds of the bandecai or moringa pod are thus very pleasantly treated. In the case of an “omelettes aux legumesa dust of grated cheese gives a finishing touch when the omelette reposes in the hot dish. The “ omelette au Parmesan” (or any mild cheese) is a speciality, as simple as it is delicious. A table-spoonful of grated and finely sifted cheese to three ordinary eggs, salt to taste, and a dessert spoonful of rich cream, if possible, or new milk, compose the mixture. Incorporate the ingre- dients, and proceed as recorded in the previous directions. Remember that it should be served just before all the juicy mixture quite sets, so that in the dish there may be an exudation of creamy moisture, and don’t forget to dust over the surface a canopy of grated cheese. This must go from the fire to the plate, as it were,—delay in serving is hard on any omelette. And now we come to the Cure’s pilce de resistance, con- cerning which I spoke at the beginning of this Chapter. The salient feature of this plat was the combination of tunny, and carp’s roes, by which it was flavoured. Half a slice of pieserved tunny, and the soft roes of two herrings a la sardine finely minced together, with a little shallot, and a dessert spoonful of parsley should be tossed in bubtei a while, and then stirred into a basin containing six well mixed eggs. Cook the mixture as already explained, and turn it out, when ready, into a hot dish containing a little melted butter a few drops of lime juice and some minced shallot, and parsley. If you cannot get preserved tunny, a piece of nicely tinned salmon will be found an •agreeable substitute, and cod’s roes will form a pleasant companion thereto. The Cure' used fresh tunny, and fresh18$ CULTJfJlIlY JOZXlJTGB FOI£ roes, but we may follow his recipe with preserved substi- tutes, if not too salt, and achieve a very fair result. I have tasted recently in Madras some kippered seer-fish, made at a private house, which, with Madras fish-roe (well soaked) ought to make a capital omelette of this kind. The seer-fish was split, washed, and dried with a cloth; salt, sugar, and lime juice were well rubbed in immediately, the next day the rubbing was repeated, and the fish artificially smoked by being hung over a fire constantly replenished with damp straw, &c.; after this, it was hung in the cook- room over the fire, and was ready for the table the third evening. Omelettes may be cooked auxfines herbes, served in a bed of tomato puree, and dusted over with grated cheese. They may also repose on a puree of green peas, or of spinach. They may be improved with minced game, and be associated effectively with mince of any kind. Chopped mushrooms or truffles (previously cooked, minced, and tossed in butter) are, of course, very delicious additions to them; and oysters may be introduced in the same way. Savoury omelettes are sent up with rich Espagnole, Perigueux, and Bechamel sauces, and may contain some finely minced kidney fried in champagne. Almost all fish, prawns, lobster, &c., go well with them, and whether simple or elaborate, plain or rich, an omelette rarely fails,—if properly made,—to win apprecia- tion, and be thankfully accounted for.CHAPTER ITT.A'CPT. ♦ Our Luncheons. BUNdlEON ,■—or tiffin as it is called by people who deem Anglo-Indian gibberish better than plain Eng- lish,—is a meal so popular amongst Britons both at Home and abroad, that the humblesttreatise on cooking would be incomplete without a chapter specially dedicated to it. There are luncheons large, and luncheons small. The former elaborate, very pleasant, and sociable, yet alas ! a little too alluring, and fatal in their effects upon the appetite for the rest of the day. The latter moi’e enjoyable perhaps than their more ostentatious connections, for they are reserved for a few intimate friends, but affording just as much temp- tation to kill dinner. At Madras we reserve our luncheon parties for the Sabbath* when the unfair sex has no official care away from home* and though few sit down to dinner on that day till nearly half past eight, the overwhelming recollections of the mid- day feast have hardly time to pass away. A far better meal for us all,—a very near relation of lun- cheon,—is the clejeilner d la fourchette of our French friends. Brillat Savarin’s luncheon party, if you remember, assembled “at ten—military punctuality.” At eleven o’clock we might bid our guests sit down, I thiuk, without mis-140 CULTJJJHiY JOttIJfG-S FOR JdfiQIlfiB. giving, and though we may invite them to breakfast, we can really give them a luncheon, as far as the menu is concern- ed. I attended a party of this kind not long ago at Madras, the complete success of which has encouraged me to advo- cate its adoption in supercession of luncheons at 2 P. m. The Frenchman takes his cafe au lait, with a roll, as we take chota hazri, which carry him satisfactorily till eleven, or even twelve o’clock ; the dejeuner d la fourchette is then a substantial meal. Cannot we, when there are no distracting office hours to think of, do likewise ? A breakfast party ends about the hour that luncheons be»in. Both hosts and guests have, therefore, ample time to recover their appetites, and to indulge in a quiet afternoon’s rest, before the even- ing drive, and dinner. A pleasant luncheon or breakfast party should possess the following characteristics :—a judiciously selected list of guests, a prettily arranged table, a light yet artistic menu, with cups of claret, sauterne, hock, or chablis, iced ad libi- tum, and in no way spoilt by sugar. Liqueurs may be handed round to finish with, and the best coffee you can make should follow. In composing your memo you should avoid adhering in any way to the order and style of a dinner. Thus, you need not give any soup at all, but lead off with oysters in their shells accompanied by brown bread and butter cut thin, limes cut into quarters, and vinegars and peppers of kinds. An old standing dish to commence a luncheon party used to be mulligatani. If properly made, this soup is a meal in itself: there are so many condiments, spices, and highly flavoured elements in its composition,—not to mention the burning chilli, and the concomitant ladleful of rice which custom decrees, —that he who partakes of it finds the delicate power of his palate vitiated, as far as the appreciation of any dainty plat that may follow is concerned, whilst the edge of his appetite is left unto him sorely blunted. So I say, reserve mulligatani for your luncheon at home alone, enjoy it thoroughly, rice and all, and—nothing more. Having dis- cussed your oysters, some half dozen dishes or so may141 OUif LUJ<rCHEOJ<fS. follow, carefully contrasted one with another, and by no means dinner-like in their order thus :— An antipasto of hors d'oeuvres. Seerfish fricasseed with cucumbers. Kidneys d la brochette with potato chips. Little ballotines of quail in jelly, iced. Fillets of beef piques with horse radish sauce, or creme d’anchois. Maccaroni a l’ Italienne. Cold galantine of fowl, or capon, delicately sliced, and handed round. A Ceylon prawn curry swimming in creamy gravy, with pieces of vegetable marrow associated with it. A chaucl froid of snipes. Fruits in cream; liqueur. This menu is obviously susceptible of the pruning knife ; two dishes could easily be cut out, and cheese with “ green butter,” and hors d’ceuvres again, might follow the sweet dish. A really carefully executed mayonnaise is a grand lun- cheon dish, and a cauliflower au gratin is invariably accept- able. For a small luncheon party, after the oysters I would give a dish of dressed fish, followed by a nice entree, a cauli- flower au gratin, the galantine, a mayonnaise, a sweet, cheese, and hors d’ceuvres. In fact, if you disabuse your mind of dinner altogether, and compose a little menu of mixed dishes, introducing some slices of cold dressed meat about the middle thereof, you cannot go far wrong. Spiced pressed beef, or corned hump, lamb and mint sauce, pigeon pie or game pie, or the galantine aforesaid, are the sort of dishes to select your central effect from. If not giving a mayonnaise, a salad can accompany the cold meat, and potatoes artistically dressed should go rouud. Canapes form a delicious luncheon dish,—void:—cut some slices of bread a quarter of an inch thick,and two inches long if142 CULIjV^IfY J0TTIJ7G8 FOJf J£Jk<£I(JkB. . heart-shaped, two inches in diameter if round, and two inches square if rectangular, try these a pale golden colour in butter, and set them on a dish to get cold. To complete the canape, first spread a layer of “green butter” over each fried piece of bread, upon that place a layer of prawn meat pounded with butter, and slightly seasoned with Nepaul pepper; smooth this with a dessert knife, place a leaf of lettuce (cut from the golden heart,) upon the top of the prawn meat, and a piece of beetroot shaped with your cutter. Over each canape when thus prepared, and placed in the dish for serving, pour a table-spoonful of rich, thickly worked, mayonnaise sauce, and a little chopped olive, or chopped capers, or the two mixed, may be judiciously sprinkled over each cap of mayonnaise di’essing. Instead of prawn meat, you can use chicken, worked as for quenelles, an atom of the divine truffle might then be added to each canape, and the thinnest slice of tongue might cover it. Instead of lettuce, a few sprigs of the flower of cold cauliflower can be introduced, or any cold vegetable of a delicate kind, asparagus points to wit. Any fish may be used in this fashion :—caviare, cod’s roe, lobster, herring a la sardine, sardines, and anchovies. Fancy some neatly picked fillets of the last named fish, wiped free from oil, and the skin and bones removed, reposing on the green butter; over them a goodly sprinkling of sliced olives, then the lettuce, &c., as previously described—“ say dost thou like the picture ?” In houses where the cook can really master an omelette properly, one with Parmesan, or laid upon a fricassee of cauliflower flowers, or composed aux points d'asperges, or aux truffes, may safely form an item of your choicest lun- cheon bill of fare. Here is a pretty little recipe for an Italian dish which, to my mind, sounds worthy of a trial, and well adapted for a mid-day festival: take a fillet of beef (the undercut of the sirloin please) preserve it whole after trimming it into14S 0172? LUfiJ’CHEOJTS. shape; make an incision in it lengthways, and insert there- in a long strip of bacon, fat and lean in equal parts, previ- ously rolled in chopped marjoram parsley, a little shallot, and some pepper: tie up the fillet now, carefully, with tape. Take a good slice of bacon, mince it very small with thyme, marjoram, lime peel, a clove of garlic, half an onion (Bom- bay) and a carrot; shake this mixture in a little butter at the bottom of a stew-pan, and when it melts, place the fillet upon it, and turn itgently till it browns nicely ; now pour in a pint of tomato purge diluted with beef gravy to the consis- tency of ordinary pea soup: simmer your fillet in this till it is done, it ought to be kept at least a couple of hours at a gentle heat: when ready to serve, strain off the sauce, place the fillet upon a very hot dish, remove the tape, and pour a little of the sauce over it. Have ready some hot, boiled, and drained, maccaroni in a sauce-pan, empty all the' sauce that remains amongst the maccaroni, shake into it a table-spoonful of finely grated cheese, toss the whole over the fire for a minute, and dish it separately in a very hot dish. Serve the two together immediately. Maccaroni, in the usual Italian fashion, is infinitely superior to our perpetual method of serving it. It makes an excellent luncheon dish. Boil the maccaroni in a sauce-pan (rubbed with a clove of garlic) until it is tender • the moment it is tender, stop the boiling by adding cold* water, -if not it will be sodden. Drain it carefully, as you do nee and let it remain in the hot sauce-pan. Now stir into it a table-spoonful of preserved butter (the new Denmark brand is quite first rate) and as you work this about over the fire an assistant should add by degrees a breakfast cupful of fresh tomato pulp a little salt and pepper, and a heaped up table-spoonful of either grated Parmesan from the bottle or any mild thoroughly powdered dry cheese : serve steam- ing fiot without delay. I could, of course, go on suggesting dishes, and describing them ad infinitum,—for luncheons are little banquets which attord enthusiastic cooks a pleasant field for the exercise ofCULQWIiY JOWIJfGB FOI? 144 their inventive faculties. I will, however, conclude my chat about luncheon parties with a receipt for a mayonnaise, sauce which has been communicated to me by the artist W. H. H.:— Put the yolks of three large, or four ordinary Indian eggs (raw) in a flat joint dish with the juice of two limes, and beat them well: tip the dish on end at an angle ,of about 35°, by slipping a thick book under the rim at one end. Open a fresh bottle of salad oil, and get an assistant to let the oil fall, in rapidly succeeding drops, upon the centre of the dish, whilst you continue beating the egg mixture upwards to make it pass under the stream of dripping oil: half a pint of salad oil may be thus expended, and you will by that time have a sauce as thick as treacle, and of a golden yellow tint. Arrange your mayonnaise in its dish (W. H. H. recommends the juicy slices of a really well flavoured cold leg of mutton) shake a few drops of tarragon vinegar over it, with a dust of black pepper: arrange some well dried lettuce leaves, trimmed with a silver dessert knife, over the mayonnaise; garnish as you like, with broken aspic jelly, gherkins, olives, capers, &c., ice the sauce, and pour it over all. W. H. H. suggests that “grace” should follow. He is right. A few words must now be said regarding miscellaneous luncheons :—the office snack-let, the lunch in the train, or al fresco out snipe-shooting, the “ tiffin” at home, a lady’s morceau, and the mid-day meal of the convalescent. Place aux dames. This is the time when a lady may indulge in mulligatani, or her favorite curry, with its chutneys, and relishes. Indian corn, boiled, stripped with a fork from the cob, tossed in melted butter, peppered, and salted, is generally liked ; see that the cob is a young one. A nicely roasted snipe, or pigeon, with chipped potatoes. A single canape of prawn, or a little patty of puff pastry filled with any tasty mixture.OUi? LUJTCHEOfJS. 14S A savoury omelette, spinach ou toast, with “ buttered- eggs,” or served with short-bread biscuits. A little plate of peas, tossed iu butter with dice of fried ham or bacon. A cheese fondue en caisse. A chicken neatly cut up (as for a curry) then dipped in bread-crumbs, fried a golden brown, and served with mac- caroni, and tomato, or good bread-sauce. The undercut of the saddle, cut out entire, grilled over a brisk fire, and sent up with a potato duchesse: or a juicy chop similarly served, with a pat of maitre d’hdtel butter melting over either of them. Braise a neck of mutton, or a breast, in gravy, with vegetables and some chopped bacon : slip a slice of bacon under the flap of either, and tie it in shape before you commence operations : when almost done, lift the little joint up, strain off the gravy, and make any nice sauce with it. Put the joint in the oven, after bread-crumbing it, to brown and finish cooking; when ready, dish it surrounded by boiled maccaroni over which the sauce should be poured at the last minute. Tomato pulp may be added to the sauce with marked effect, and some glazed turnips or carrots may garnish the dish. From these dishes the luncheon of a lady or an invalid, ought to be easily selected. Savoury toasts of all kinds, from the homely Welsh rarebit upwards, are welcome on the luncheon table. I shall treat of them in extenso hereafter. The office snacklet is, as a rule, a sandwich followed by a slice of cake. The former is susceptible of infinite variety: here are a few good ones :— 13146 CULI^RY JOYYIJIGS FOIt Spread the bread with green or any fancy butter, and fill the sandwich with chopped sardines, and some bits of pickle lere and there ; or with mixed chicken and tongue, a lettuce ieat and some mayonnaise sauce. Any potted meat worked up with butter, pepper, and a touch of mustard. 1 1 v ’ Ham and beef sandwiches should make your nose tingle with mustard: be easy with the butter if you can dot in some nice pieces of fat. Pound a slice of cheese well, with a little fresh salad oil, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a little black pepper, and salt, add an anchovy, well wiped free from oil, and passed through the sieve with a little butter if too thick; mix thoroughly, give it adust of Nepaul pepper, spread'it on your bread, and complete the sandwich. This is for one large, or two small ones remember, so cut jrnur cheese accordingly. Hard boiled eggs work up well for sandwiches, and may be either used plainly with a seasoning of pepper and salt, or added to other ingredients like chopped tongue, ham, or corned beef. I am especialty fond of a little snack composed of one home-made roll, a small piece of cheese, and two ripe plan- tains, but the taste of eating cheese with fruit is, I fear un- English. The traveller’s luncheon basket, and that of the sportsman are analogous. A friend of mine with whom I used to walk the paddy fields, adopted the plan of taking out a digester pot, previously filled with stewed steak and oysters, or some equally toothsome stew, which he trusted to his syce, who lit a fire somewhere or other, in the marvellous way the natives of this country do, and, as sure as there are fish in the sea, had the contents of the pot steaming hot, at the147 0172? LUJJCHE0J78. proper time, and at the exact spot we required it. He was a bowlegged veteran, this syce, and a most trusty varlet. I almost think, though, that our shooting became a little er- ratic after our stew, for it was bountiful in quantity, rich in quality, and provocative of beer, of whiskey and water, or brandy and soda, according to our supply thereof. A good cold lunch is the best for the open air, when work must follow. When I was going through the course of Garrison instruction, and accustomed to long days out sur- veying, I was partial to a galantine made of a small fowl, boned, and rolled, with a block of tongue and some force- meat introduced in the centre of it. A home-made brawn of tongue, a part of an ox head, and sheep’s trotters, well seasoned, and slightly spiced, was another socialite. A nice piece of the brisket of beef salted, and spiced, boiled, placed under a weight, and then trimmed into a neat shape (the trimmings come in for sandwiches, potted- meat, or “ bubble and squeak”) is a very handy thing for the tiffin basket, and a much respected patron of mine recom- mends for travelling, a really good cold plum pudding in which a glass of brandy has been included. Cake is accept- able at every kind of luncheon ; in fact, cakes were invented for that meal, for weddings, and for schoolboys only.CHAPTER ♦ Fritters. AILURE in the accomplishment of the many excellent dishes which come under the head of “ fritters” may be fairly attributed to three things: The first, ignorance in making the batter; the second, a wrongly shaped utensil; and the third, an insufficient use of the frying medium. If you once master these cardinal points, and can drum them into the head of your Ramasamy, you will have at your command a tasty and, indeed, artistic method of cookery upon which you can always rely with confidence. The charm of fritter cooking is its simplicity. The mixing of a good batter merely depends upon the accurate following of the recipe before you, whilst the culinary operation itself presents no difficulty whatever, provided a liberal supply of fat be given out, and the vessel used be a proper one. The beginner, as a rule, overcomes this part of his education after a few trials, and thenceforward has no apprehension concerning success. There are numerous dishes, sweet, as well as savoury, which can be made with batter in the sciufe-pan :—Vegetables, and fruit; fish, both fresh, and cooked; remains of cold meats, pounded cheese, and lastly, by batter,—pure, and unassisted, in the form of “ beignets souffles," “ brioches,” &c. As the main point in this kind of frying consists in providing a bath of boiling fat for the thing to be cooked, it • is essential that we choose a deep, rather than a broad and14.9 shallow vessel, for the operation. The ordinary frying-pan sold at hard-ware shops is of no use whatever for this branch of the cook’s work. The pan you want should look like a stew-pan with its sides cut down half-way; its diameter need not exceed eight or nine inches. It may be as heavy as you like, for it must, of necessity, be kept stead}’ over the fire when in use; and a handle like that of an omelette-pan is unnecessary, for you never require to shake a saute-pan. Besides your pan, for delicate fritter work, there is nothing more useful than the wire frying-basket,—a cheap thing enough, and not hard to make. Provided with this utensil, which may be described as an open-work, draining-pan, the whole process of working may be thus described:— 1. —Make your batter, to begin with, according to one of the receipts hereafter given, and place it in its bowl on one side, covered up from flies, dust, &c. 2. —Prepare your fish, meat, vegetable, fruit, or whatever you are going to cook, and arrange the pieces on a flat dish, on a table handy, with the bowl of batter next to it. 3-—Take your saute-pan, see that it is thoroughly clean and dry. 4. —Set it on the griddle rest, over a good bright fire, and empty the fat, or whatever you use as a frying medium, into it. 5. —When melted, the fat ought to be quite two inches deep. 6- Determine if the fat be hot enough by throwing a sippet of bread into it: if it turn a yellow-brown the fritter bath is ready. 7. —Now dip your morsel-to-be-fried into the batter, which should be of sufficient consistency to coat it nicely ; and put it into the frying basket, after you have plunged that vessel into the hot fat. & 8. —The fritter must be covered by the fat, not partly in and partly out of it. J150 GULQTJ&tY J0<TYIJTa8 FOi? WJlQIiflS. 9. —Let it frizzle, and when of a golden brown tint, lift up the basket, and hold it a moment or two over the pan to drain. 10. —Lay each fritter, as you take it from the basket, on a dry clean cloth, or on a sheet of new blotting paper, to complete the draining. 11. —When dry, dish it in a very hot dish, and, if a savoury fritter, give it a dust of finely powdered salt; if a sweet one, shake a canopy of powdered sugar over it. 12. —Fritters can be fried one after another. Never put in more than the pan can easily hold at one time. The fat should now be poured through a strainer into a clean bowl: it will harden, and be fit for work again, until it assumes a leaden tint, which may take place after it has been used two or three times. Fat in which fish has once been fried must be reserved afterwards for fish only, as it acquires a fishy taste. If you follow these rules closely, you ought never to fail to turn out nice fritters, provided, of course, that your batter be properly made. I cannot too strongly impress upon you the necessity of attention to this part of the work which so many cooks slur over carelessly. I have adopted as a standard batter in my own kitchen one recommended by the “ G. C.,” whose advice I have so often quoted in these pages. Friends who have tried it at my recommendation have generally commended it. You must proceed in this way:— Beat up the yolks of three eggs with two table-spoons- | ful of brandy, one table-spoonful of the best salad oil, and four or five table-spoonsful of cold water. Incorporate with this mixture three table-spoonsful of flour and a pinch of salt. The flour should be the best imported. Work this now, with care, to a smooth paste, and continue to beat itF%I<?<rEIlS. 151 for at least ten minutes. If the batter appear too thick, add a little water until its consistency be satisfactory, i.e.:—it should cover the spoon when lifted' out of it with a coating about the eighth of an inch thick. This stage having been reached, take the whites of the three eggs, and whip them to a stiff froth, which must be stirred into your batter at the time of using. This recipe may be reduced for a small dish of fritters as follows:—two ordinary eggs, one table-spoonful of brandy, a dessert spoonful of salad oil, two or three table-spoonsful of water, and one and a half table-spoonful of flour. For sweet fritters, use su^ar instead of salt. Another good batter is made thus :—Beat up equal parts of salad oil, and brandy,—say, a table-spoonful of each; add the yolk of an egg, and incorporate with this, sufficient flour to make a thick paste, which you thin to the required consistency by the addition of water, reserving the whipped white of the egg to finish with. ° I have more than once alluded to “ beignets” in previous chapters, and receipts for several will be found amongst my menus. The kramousky is, I think, the prince of all savoury fritters, and is susceptible of being served in many delicious ways. The oyster, pounded shell fish, minced fish of any kind, sweet-breads (when you can get them) or any deli- cately composed mince of fowl, or of meat, with tongue or ham, can be thus turned to an artistic account. Whatever your salpicon or minced composition, may be made of, the specialties of the kramousky are the little jacket of fat bacon in which it is enveloped, and the batter in which it is dipped. The bacon should be previously cooked, and cut into thin slices, two and a half inches long, and one and a half deep : two oysters, or a heaped up tea-spoonful of any salpicon, should be laid in the centre of each: the bacon must then be folded over it very neatly, and kept ready for the dipping process, which must be carried out cautiously • the frying should be conducted as already described ^ "OULIJTJII^Y JQ3<npa8 FOI? 152 If you wish to make a lcramousky of chicken, turkey or game, you should mince the meat coarsely, the pieces being cut like little dice, bind the mince with the yolks of an egg or two, and stir into it, in a sauce-pan on the fire, a little richly made veloute ; let this get quite cold, and firm, then divide it into little portions and fill your bacon slices. Miuced truffles, and mushrooms, are, of course, undeniable improvements to any salpicon. A fish lcramousky is easily accomplished : you need only mince the fish, stir into it, in a sauce-pan on the fire, a few spoonsful of well made white sauce, add a little spice, with the yolk of an egg, and set it to cool. In like manner, tinned lobster, tinned oysters, and any tinned fish, can thus be successfully treated. In using them, however, it is necessary to wash, and drain them from the liquid of the tin. The sauce should be made very carefully, so that it may freshen up the fish as much as possible. An oyster, plainly dipped in the batter I have given you, and fried secundum artem, is perhaps as dainty a morsel as can be presented to the jaded appetite of an Anglo Indian. Drain the oysters from their liquor in the tin, wipe them, and set them en marinade all the day in a soup plate, with the juice of three limes, an onion sliced, some whole peppers, and a few cloves; turn them occasionally till they are wanted. Here is a super-excellent idea of the “ G. C.’s”:—Split each oyster open, almost as wide, comparatively speaking, as you do a kidney, and insert therein a little of the follow- ing composition :—a dessert spoonful each of minced mush- room, shallot, and truffle, tossed on the fire in batter, with pepper, salt and a spoonful of rich brown sauce : thicken this with the yolks of two eggs, give it the juice of a lime, and let it get cold. After putting a small allowance of this in each oyster, shut the sides together, dip it in the batter, and fry immediately.Fi?i<r<rEits. 158 I have already indicated the vegetables which make good fritters, and repeat here my high opinion of that method of treating them. Try this:—pound a dish of boiled prawns in the mortar with some butter, and weak gravy; when quite worked to a puree, incorporate them with the batter mixture, and drop it by dessert spoonsful at a time, into your sawihf-pan: let them cook till they turn a rich golden brown, and are as crisp as biscuits then drain, and serve them on a napkin. If you omit the prawn purde, and simply fry spoonsful of the plain batter, you will have “ pancake fritters,” which may be either sent up as a savoury entremet, to be eaten with butter, pepper, and salt; or as a sweet one, when they must be dusted over with powdered sugar, and sprinkled with lime juice. In the latter case, a spoonful of brandy shaken over the fritters improves their general effect. All fruit fritters can be cooked in the batter I have described. Peaches, apricots, pears, and apples make deli- cious fritters; the pineapple is equally amenable to the saute- pan; whilst oranges and our lowly plantain are not to be despised. For the four former fruits we must look to the tin; those that come to us from America are specially to be recommended. Pineapples, when in season, can be procured in the market; if out of season, the American tinned slices are capital substitutes. Oranges can be used in their season, and the plantain is a perennial friend. Whatever fruit be chosen, let it be set en marinade in liqueur, brandy, or rum. Delicate fruits require liqueur, the pineapple is better associated with rum, the plantain and orange are thankful for either rum or brandy. A wineglass is enough. The fruit, sliced, and prepared for the “ beignets,” should be laid in a soup-plate, dusted over with sugar, and sprinkled with the brandy, or liqueur. After an hour, the slices should be turned over, basted again, and that should be repeated during the afternoon, until they are required by the cook.15.4 CULIJTJlIiY JOYYIJTaS FOR JAfiQIifiB. The brandy or liqueur you use for the marinade should be mixed in the batter. I cannot do better than wind up this chapter with a recipe for beignets souffles:— “ Put about a pint of water in a sauce-pan with a pinch of salt, a piece of butter the size of an egg, a table-spoonful of sugar, and the rasped peel of three lemons—when the whole boils, throw in gradually sufficient flour to form a thick paste, then let it remain ten minutes, and work into it, off the fire, two eggs complete, and the yolks of two more, the whites of which you reserve for whisking to a froth: add the froth, let it rest awhile, and then proceed to fry by dropping pieces of it the size of a walnut into boiling fat. The paste will swell in the process of frying, and hollow balls of a fine golden colour will be produced, if the lard is sufficiently heated. Serve them piled upon a dish, with a plentiful coating of powdered white sugar.” (G. C.) In this country it will be better to use a few drops of lemon essence than the rasped peel of a lime; and any essence, such as vanilla, ratafia, almond, &c., may be used as a change. If you omit the lemon and the sugar, and stir in with the flour a good allowance of finely grated Parmesan, you will achieve a “ beignet souffle au Parmesan,” a truly toothsome savoury entremet.CHAPTER Salads. N an early chapter of these jottings, I observed that amongst the accessories of the artistic dinner, a good salad, though not entered in the menu perhaps,°was still expected to be present. On the continent we find the salad handed to us, as a matter of course, with ‘the roast;’ and this custom is being fast adopted in England by those who are quick to mark that which their neighbours do well. There can be no doubt whatever that this method of dressing raw vegetables, if correctly done, is wholesome, and a singularly commendable staple of diet for people who live in hot climates. There are ailments to which the English- man seems to be especially prone, which are comparatively unknown by Italians with whom raw vegetables, and oil are daily food A careful study then, of what we can do in India in this branch of cookery is worthy of every man’s attention. J We all know that a salad demands two things its veo-e- table foundation and its dressing, both of which may be a good deal varied. J First, as regards the foundation of a salad. This mav be composed of cooked, as well as of raw materials: the ve^eta- endivf fnClpai 7 era?loyed beinS» lettuces (cabbage, and coss) endive, tomatoes,onions, cucumbers, parsley, mustard garden cress, and water-cress, in the latter condition; and*m the156 CULIJlfillY JOYYIJIGS Foil WJIQIIJIS. former, beetroot, French beans, potatoes, artichokes, cauli- flower, turnip-tops, asparagus, cabbage, vegetable marrow, and young carrots. With cold cooked country vegetables I have made capital salads; the brinjal, bandecai, country beans, greens, and little pumpkins, gathered small, are all worthy of treatment in this way. Touching salad-dressing a great deal might be Avritten, for concerning its composition cookery books seem to pos- sess “ a thousand several tongues,” and every tongue to bring in “ a several tale.” Let us try and be contented with”a few standard ones, remembering that salads may be clothed in simplicity, as well as in grandeur. True con- noisseurs, I think, adhere, as a rule, to the very simplest: that is to say, the simplest as far as its component parts, and the process of mixing them, are concerned; the artist’s hand and eye, and some little experience to boot, are however essential to acquire that nicety of judgment of quantity which a plain dressing demands. It is, therefore, the hardest to describe. Let me lead off with one general law for every salad, of which English people are, collectively speaking, ignorant; it is this:— Abstain from the vinegar bottle as much as possible. You do not want an acid dish at all; vinegar is merely added to lend a peculiar flavour to the composition, and to assist it with a very slight pungency. The correct use of vinegar is, therefore, to my mind the feature which contains the main difficulty in mixing a salad. The following rules for plain salad-dressing may be trusted I think Pull the leaves of the lettuce from the stalk with your band rejecting all that are bruised and discoloured, turn them into a basin, wash them well, and drain them thoroughly on a sieve, tossing them lightly m a cloth afterwards to ge rid of every drop of water. When dry, put them into the bowl, and work them about with the wooden spoon and fork157 SJiLJlQS. whilst an assistant drops over them a little of the finest oil you can buy. As soon as every leaf is thoroughly anointed,— glittering with a coating of moisture as it were,—shake over them a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and dust them with salt, and black pepper. The spoon and fork must be kept going during the addition of the vinegar drops, and also whilst the pepper and salt are being dusted into the bowl. The thing to avoid is a sediment of dressing: the leaves lying at the bottom of the bowl must, in that case, become sodden, and so the crispness you desire to maintain will be marred. A thorough lubrication is all that lias to be accom- plished. I picked this up from a French waiter at Verrey’s dining rooms in London : it was surprising how much oil was caught up by the dry crisp leaves, and how little vinegar was put in as a finishing touch by this accomplished gargon. Very finely minced onion, curled parsley, and garden-cress may be sprinkled over the lettuce leaves after the oil has been worked into them, but for dinner parties the “ violet” had better be omitted (valuable as it is) or its absence supplied by a drop or two of shallot vinegar. And this leads me to aromatic vinegars, “ without which,” to use the out-fitters favourite form of advertisement, “no salad-maker’s equipment can be considered complete”:— 1. —“Tarragon Vinegar,” 2. —“ Anchovy Vinegar,” 3. —“Shallot Vinegar,” 4. —“ Elder Vinegar,” 5. -—“ Garlic Vinegar,” These are all procurable at the shops of the leading preserved provision merchants at Madras, but the salad artist should make his own, peculiar vinegars, and use them, accord- ing to.his judgment, to vary the too often repeated flavours of ordinary compositions: here are a few suggestions:— “Fines herbes vinegar”:—To half a pint of tarragon vinegar, add a table-spoonful of minced garden-cress, a table- 14 *153 CULIJJJlIiY JOttrjtQ-a FOIL J£Jk<gltJlB. spoonful of minced marjoram, a clove of garlic, two green capsicums shred, one minced shallot. Or:—To the same vinegar, add the rind of three limes, a dozen cloves, a dozen pepper corns, and the same green herbs and onion. The bruised seed of garden-cress, celery, and parsley, in equal portions,—say a tea-spoonful of each, a clove of garlic, and two capsicums finely minced, make, when added to half a pint of tarragon vinegar, an invaluable element of salad dressing. A very few drops of the strongly flavoured vinegars I have described are, of course, ample to “ animate the bowl.” A cook’s ingenuity will aid him in concocting other varieties easily enough. When made, cork your bottle down tightly, seal it with wax, and set it in the sun,—an operation which presents but little difficulty in this country. In a week or two, you may strain the liquid, and take it into use. An excellent salad is that made by slicing raw tomatoes, with a Bombay onion. The dressing given should be like that recommended for lettuce, only that, inasmuch as there must be much juice from the tomatoes, your allowance of oil may be abundant; and, as tomatoes are sweet, there may be a little freer use of the vinegar cruet. As in all salads, tarragon, or any aromatic vinegar, may be employed advan- tageously in this one, and minced fines herbes may be sprinkled over the whole. This is obviously a salad for the sterner sex, and one which no man would partake of just before a ball, on his wedding day, or at all during the halcyon period which generally precedes that ceremony. O ! why is our rose thus thornily encumbered ? Whj7 was it ordained that man should never eat of the fragrant bulb without remembering it to his sorrow ? I heard a cook once sa}7 that the forbidden fruit in the garden of Eden must have been an onion. “ Hence,” said he, “ the curse it carries with it, and hence the universal dislike with which it is regarded by the ladies/' But this man was a free thinker.159 BfiLjiQB. The other form of salad dressing is closely allied to mayonnaise sauce, and has many admirers. With some vegetable ingredients it undoubtedly works better than its plainer relative. In England, however, it is nearly always spoilt by being drowned with vinegar,—common, acid stuff without any flavouring,—and in nearly every cookery book of the average capacity, you are told to mix oil and vinegar in equal parts, which I have already denounced. In point of fact, the part played by the vinegar in these dressings ought to be so small (as regards measurement) that a fixed amount can scarcely be laid down. In propor- tion to the oil, a quarter is to my mind the outside allot- ment that should be given. This is a good every-day salad mixture:— Put the very hard boiled yolks of two eggs into a slop basin, with a tea-spoonful of powdered mustard, a salt spoon- ful of salt, a pinch of sugar, and a tea-spoonful of minced shallot. Bruise these with a wooden or silver spoon, and work them to a paste with a little salad oil, add oil by degrees till your paste is about the consistency of batter, then toss into it the raw yolk of an egg, continue the working, and add oil, till you have a nice rich sauce coating the spoon pretty thickly : you can now dole out a little tarragon vinegar, and mix it thoroughly with the other ingredients: the sauce will become creamy the moment it receives the vinegar. Taste your sauce by dipping a leaf of lettuce into a spoonful of it, and finish it off, as regards further addition of oil and vinegar, according to discretion. The eye, and the palate are your surest guides : no true salad maker works by measure. As soon as you have got a creamy, well-flavoured sauce to suit your fancy, strain it through the little block tin strainer to get rid of every lump, and the little bits of onion. This should be done over the sauce-boat, which should be put into the ice box as soon as it is filled. I recommend very strongly that the salad, nicely dressed in its bowl, and the sauce in its boat, should be preserved separately, and handed round together. If you mix a salad160 CULljY^Y J0YYIJ1G-8 FOI? J&JtQl&B. of this kind before dinner, and let it soak, it deteriorates considerably before the time comes for its service. Cover up your nicely selected lettuce leaves, &c., and they will be ciisp, if handed round, with their sauce following them, on the arrival of “ the roast.” This advice holds good with mayonnaise. The meat or fish of which the dish may be composed becomes sodden, and dead, and the green accom- i paniments fall off in crispness. Besides, after the meal, a mixed majmnnaise is wasted, whereas one with which the sauce was separately served may be turned to account. You have only to pick the meat out of lettuce leaves, and set it in the safe. The plain salad 1 first mentioned must, of course, be mixed beforehand. Salads of cold cooked vegetables can be either served with plain, or rich dressings. Sliced potatoes, beetroot, French beans, and cucumber, go well together: cauliflower and cabbage, both kinds of artichokes, and asparagus points, are admirable with a plain sauce : and the country vegetables I have alluded to are nice with ordinary salad sauce, or mayonnaise dressing. Choose very young brinjals, boil and slice them; bandecais may be plainly arranged in rows ; | young pumpkins must be sliced, and greens, slightly boiled and drained. Strips of anchovies, well wiped from their tin oil, may be slipped into each bandecai with satisfactory results. Here is a noble recipe for a mayonnaise for which I have to thank a fair, and most accomplished artiste now in Madras:— In an oval, or round cylinder-mould, pour a little well made aspic jelly; as soon as it is set, drop in a number of balls of green butter, and prawn butter alternately, cover them with jelly, set it, and repeat the process until the mould is packed: you must fee the balls of butter before you drop them in, and alternate them differently in each layer, so that the colours may be checkered. The mould can now be left in ice to consolidate thoroughly: whenSJlLfiQB. 161 turned out, 3tou can garnish it externally with balls of the same fancy butters, and pack its hollow centre with the fish, or fowl of which your mayonnaise is composed. Lettuce leaves should crown the centre, and be disposed round the margin of the dish outside the mould. The sauce should be kept in ice till the nick of time before serving when (in this case) it should be poured over the contents in the centre of the mould. My up-country readers have only to make their fancy butter from tinned lobster meat, instead of prawns, to turn out just as grand a mayonnaise as this. For fancy butters, please follow me in the next chapter. N.B. In all rich salad, or mayonnaise dressings, cream may be used instead of oil, or be added to a made sauce as a finishing touch.CHAPTER XXVHI. Hors d'oeuvres. BE must now consider those attractive accessories of an artistic dinner, luncheon, or breakfast party, which, under the title of hors d’ceuvres, are gradually becoming popular amongst English people, whose minds have expanded under the beneficial influence of travel in foreign countries. Hors d’ceuvres, as you all doubtless know, are little dainties, or kickshaws, carefully prepared, and tastefully served, which, on the continent, are offered to the diner to whet his appetite prior to the more important discussion of the banquet itself. In Italy the service of these trifles under the title of “antipasto,” precedes every meal as a standard custom. We have not yet acquired this agree- able fashion, notwithstanding that the sending round of three or four oysters to each guest, with a slice of brown bread and butter’, &c., has for a long time, been no novelty either in England, or even in Madras. Our custom, at present, is to reserve the hors d’ceuvres to accompany the cheese at a dinner party, and to advocate a change would, I fear, be lost labour on the part of the author of these jottings. As far as luncheon, and breakfast parties are concerned, however, surely we might adopt the Italian custom as a novelty, and watch its effect upon our friends, before passing an opinion upon the suitability of the introduction.HO^S Q:CEUVI?ES. 168 Unlike the greater part of our culinary labours, this little item of our menu need cost us but little trouble. We can obtain many excellent things wherewith to captivate the appetite, and' we can make others which in their way are generally successful. Olives farcies, olives plain, anchovies in oil, sardines, sliced Bologna sausage, preserved tunny, lobster, cod’s roes, reindeer’s tongues, ox tongue, devilled ham, potted meats, fancy butters, herrings a la sardine, pilchards in oil, caviare, oysters, pickles, cucumber, radishes, thin bread and butter, wafer biscuits, oaten biscuits, and last but not least “Bombay ducks,” provide us with a goodly list from which to choose our three tasty morsels. Hors d’ceuvres should be served in a dish made with compartments. Tongue, sausages, and ham should be most delicately sliced: preserved fish should be very carefully wiped free from all tin-oil, and re-dressed with the finest salad oil; if of a large kind, small portions should be cut to suit the dish: potted meats should be fresh, home-made, and prettily shaped in a cone, caviare should be turned out of the tin, and garnished with quarters of lime. Fancy butters must.be iced, and served separately. Oysters are rarely sent round with the cheese: when they appear before dinner, send them up in their shells, and be quick with their accompaniments: you sometimes see a hungry man polish off his bivalves before the lime, pepper, and bread and butter, have reached him: combat this contingency by breaking up the dishes containing these adjuncts into detachments, and serving them in two or three directions at once. In selecting your hors d’oeuvres try to avoid giving two fishy things on the same dish, thus :—do not give anchovies, and prawn butter together, or olives farcies and caviare, but take, let us say, anchovy butter, devilled ham, and oat biscuit, or cream cheese, olives farcies, and wafers. Here are a few combinations :—164- CULIJi^Y JOttlJfGS FOI? JdJkQ^B. Sliced Bologna sausage, prawn butter, bread and butter. Kippered seer fish, sliced tongue, oat biscuit. Herring a la. sardine, potted tongue, dry biscuit. Cheese fingers, green butter, Bologna sausage. Cucumber, olives farcies, oat biscuit. Pilchards in oil, butter, pulled bread. The best cheese you can get, cut into dice, should accom- pany the above. Home-made cream cheeses are not seen as often as they ought to be, and yet a child could make one, following any domestic cookery book recipe. The garnish- ing of the compartments of the hors d’oeuvres dish should be tastefully done with knots of curled parsley, curled cress, or little bunches of fresh water-cress. Fancy butters have of late become justly popular at Madras. There are many ways of making them. The objects you must keep in view when composing a fancy butter, may be thus summed up :—a pleasant flavour, a pretty tint, and novelty. To secure the first, it is imperatively necessary that the basis upon which you work be beyond suspicion. The butter you use must be the best possible. If, therefore, you cannot make it at home, from cream you have set under your own eye, I strongly advise you to use that of a “Denmark” tin. You must wash the butter well with milk, and form it with your butter-bat, setting it in ice afterwards. The colouring is clap-trap work: you can get a nice green tint from “ spinach greening,” and a pretty orange scarlet from crab coral. Novelty rests with yourself: you can ring the changes upon pounded anchovies, sardines, herring roes, lobster, prawns, crab, and pilchards: you can use capers, parsley, garden-cress, gherkins, onions, and olives : by the judicious selection of your ingre- dients, all of which are agreeable in fancy butter, you will avoid sameness, and secure success. This is my recipe for a stock “ green-butter” :— 1.—Weigh a quarter of a pound of butter such as I have described, and ice it.165 HO%S (D’CEUVI?ES. 2. —Boil a couple of good handsful of spinach, pass the leaves through the hair sieve, and save all the pulp, so obtained, in a bowl. 3. —Take six full sized anchovies from the tin, wipe them free from oil, pick out their back bones, pass them through the hair sieve, and save the pulp. 4. —Mince as finely as possible sufficient curled parsley to fill a tablespoon generously. 5. —Mince also as finely as possible capers sufficient to fill a teaspoon. 6. —Having these ingredients ready, first colour the butter by working into it, as lightly as you can enough “spinach- greening” to secure the tint you require (it is always wise to order a little more spinach than you think you may want, to be on the safe side) then add the other things by degrees, and when thoroughly incorporated, trim the butter into a tasteful mould, or sundry pretty patlets, and set it in the ice box. “ Maitre d’hotel butter” I have already given. It is quite worthy of a place amongst hors d’ceuvres. “ Prawn butter,”—a highly delicious composition, should be made in this way :—Boil the prawns, clean them carefully, pound them to a paste in your mortar, mixing a little butter with them to assist the operation. Now melt some butter in a sauce-pan, mix your pounded prawn meat in it, and as soon as it appears to have absorbed the butter (having been well stirred during the process and flavoured with a very little cayenne pepper, and powdered mace) take it out, and mix it with your iced butter in the proportion of about half and half. The pounding must be thorough; there should be no granulated particles of prawn meat in the butter. Crab-coral butter, and lobster butter may be made exactly as the foregoing: in the case of the former, I would put in166 GULT^^Y JOttl^GS Foil tfjiQiyia. a couple of anchovies, as the coral is rather tasteless; and in that of the latter, I would wash the lobster clean, getting rid of all oily, tinny juices. To do this, turn the contents of tin out upon a sieve, with a bowl under it to catch the liquor; when the lobster meat drips no longer, pour over it a good jugful of clean cold water turning the pieces so that they may all come under the stream. Hard boiled yolks of eggs may be passed through the sieve, and be made to form a part of any fancy butter; they tint plain butter yellow and make a tasty pat if flavoured with soft herring roes, or cod’s roes, peppered and sharpened with a few capers. Fish that is very salt must, of course, be soaked in water before it can be used : anchovies in oil do not need that treat- ment ; gorgoua anchovies, on the other hand, must be freed from brine by steeping. Home-made potted meats, if carefully made, so far surpass those you get in tins, that I can hardly understand why they are so rarely attempted. Really good butter, and a little pure gravy, attentively extracted from some fresh meat and bones, are the chief corner-stones in such compositions. Ramasamy invariably over-spices his potted meat, and the less we enquire into the class of butter he uses the better. Potted prawns should be made precisely as laid down for prawn butter, omitting the final amalgamation with butter. I will select home-made potted tongue as a trustworthy method of using up meat advantageously :— Take one pound weight of tongue, home-cured, (don’t hesitate to pay eight or ten annas for it when fresh : the sum will not ruin 3rou, and you will get your money’s worth) four ounces of “Denmark” butter, a tea-spoonful of pounded mace, a coffee cup of beef gravy, a tea-spoonful of “spiced pepper” (q. v. page 90), and work them in this manner:—cut167 SORS Q'CEUVIiES. off the hard skin of the tongue, and pass the meat through your mincing machine: after that,'pound it thoroughly in your mortar, adding the butter and gravy during the operation: press the meat through your wire-sieve to get rid of gristle, and lumps, work the spiced pepper and mace into it, and pat it down tightly in a jar: smooth the surface: melt a table-spoonful of the same sort of butter in a sauce-pan, and pour it over the surface; let it get cold, and the work will be completed. This receipt is practicable, as to quantities, with cold corned beef, chicken and tongue (half and half), cold roast beef, and even mutton. Roast beef, and mutton, require about three anchovies to the pound, as they have not the flavour of salted meat. Potted snipe, hare, partridges, &c., are excellent. Don’t forget the livers when you are potting birds, and turn back to page 58 for my recipe for “foie gras forcemeat,” a little of which will encourage your game pate exceedingly. If you happen to have any spare atoms of truffles handy, slip them into the potted meat, and no man will blame you. Mock-crab” is the name given to a very good hors doeuvre in which cheese plays a prominent part; this is how it is made :—half a pound of prawn meat, a quarter of a pound of good fresh cheese, a dessert-spoonful of mustard powder, a table-spoonful of salad oil, a table-spoonful of “anchovy vinegar,” and a liberal dusting of spiced pepper. Pound every thing (omitting the prawns) and work the mixture till it looks like a rich mayonnaise sauce, adding oil if necessary to obtain that result: when creamy, mingle it with the prawn meat, pounded, &c., as in the former leceipt, and trim it into a shapely little mould for serving. “Pulled bread” accompanies the cheese in the place of biscuits. You can make it easily enough, if you bake at home, as follows:—Make a pound loaf, and when the bread is all but done, take it from the oven, tear the crumb from the inside with a fork in irregular pieces, place them on a buttered baking tin and crisp them in the oven.165 OULIJT^Y JO<Z<Z1J<TQ-8 FOI{ jlfjSQXZfjSS. Use coarse grained oatmeal for your oat biscuits, and send them up piping hot from the griddle. *' Cheese fingers” should be made in these proportions :— a quarter of a pound of puff paste, a pinch of salt, two ounces of grated Parmesan, or other mild cheese, and a very little cayenne, or a few drops of “tabasco.” Work the ingredients together, roll the paste out about half an inch thick, cut it into oblong shapes, about three inches long, bake and serve as hot as possible, on a napkin. “ Devilled ham” is sold in tins, it is as good a thing as can be got at a pinch, if you have no time to make a hors d’ceuvre at home. It is not as hot as its name would lead you to suppose: it is merely potted ham well peppered.CHAPTER XXIS:. Eggs, Maccaroni, and Cheese. NDER the title which I have selected for this chapter, I propose to place before you a few dishes of a savoury nature, some of which will be found, I think, suitable for the breakfast, or luncheon table, and some of them worthy of a place as entremets in the choicest of dinner menus. Although many people must be aware that there are numerous ways of cooking eggs nicely, why is it that so few attempt to go beyond the ordinary methods which have obtained in English kitchens since good King Arthur ruled the land ? It is the same with maccaroni: how rare a thing it is to see that most invaluable article of food dressed otherwise than in the time-honoured baking-dish. And, in the many uses of cheese, what ignorance we betray ! Whether taken independently, and made the most of alone, or com- bined together, and treated in some artistic fashion, we pos- sess in these three things the elements of certain dainty dishes which, in their way, are excellent. Singularly adapted to the climate in which we spend our exile, and inexpensive, they are at the same time iuvested with a ceitain amount of refinement that to many people is no slight recommendation. The accessories which are more or less necessary in this branch of cookery are good butter, cream, a little clear 15170 CVLIJIJI^Y JOWlJIG-a F0% gravy, herbs and onion as used for omelette making, the tomato, cold vegetables, and carefully sifted bread-crumbs. j he 1 emains ot fish, game, and poultry; grated ham, corned beef, and tongue, and slices of sausages, may be also occa- sionally made use of by an ingenious cook. Let us first consider a few ways of serving eggs:— “ CEafs sur le plat” :—this simple, yet capital method of doing eggs in a hurry, should be noted. Melt a table- spoonful of butter in an omelette pan, and slip two eggs into it, carefully avoiding breaking the yolks; let them set°'n the butter, as a poached egg sets in water; the moment they are sufficiently firm, let them slide off into the hot dish ready to receive them, pouring the butter in which they were cooked over them. Put in the eggs the moment the butter melts ; for, when first they go in, the pan should not be too hot: a drop or two of tarragon vinegar maybe shaken over the dished eggs, or a tiny bit of maitre d’hotel butter the size of a pea may be allowed to melt over each of them. If after dishing the eggs, you return the pan to the fire, and brown the butter before pouring it over them, you have “ ceufs an beurre noir.” Eggs broken gently over thin slices of cheese, (which have been placed in melted butter in an omelette pan over the fire) and allowed to set, are called “ ceufs au fromage”: they should be dusted with pepper, and salt before serving. I have frequently mentioned “ buttered-eggs”* in con- nection with fish, and vegetable cookery. By some, the dish is called “ scrambled eggs,” which is perhaps the more accu- rate title, being a translationof the French “ceufs brouilles,” the name given to it by our “ lively neighbours.” Do not forget the many ways in which you may serve this com- position, and proceed to make it thus :—Break three eggs into a bowl with a salt spoonful of salt, a table-spoonful of cream or of milk, and a dust of pepper: mix them well: * The “rumbledeggs” of Ramasamy.171 EGGS, JAfiOCJlIlOJU, J1J7Q CHEESE. melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in 37our omelette pan: pour in your mixture, stir it about uneasingly until it is lightly set, and turn it out. Tomato pulp may be mixed with the eggs, and any nice meat like ham, tongue, corned beef, game, &c., may be minced up, and added to them. The cream is by no means necessary, neither is the milk, but with the poor eggs of the Indian fowl, I think the assistance they give is very perceptible. By adding grated cheese you have “ ceufs brouilles au fromage “ asparagus peas,” and truffles are also grand ad- ditions recommended by Gouffe. “ CEufs au jus”:—Suppose that you have a nice breakfast cupful of gravy saved from the joint which was served at last night’s dinner. Choose a little pie-dish, and pour some of the gravy into it, so as to cover the bottom well; flavour it with a little minced shallot, or any sweet herb, set it in the oven, and when it bubbles, break into it as many eggs as will fill the dish nicely without crowding; shake some bread-crumbs over the eggs, and some little pieces of minced anchovy, or the remains of any cold fish ; return the dish to the oven for three or four minutes, so that its contents may partly set; then pour the rest of the gravy evenly over the surface, add another layer of fine crumbs, and bake for five or six minutes. Be careful not to let the eggs harden. CEufs a la creme ’:—Choose a shallow pie-dish, and butter it liberally. Pour over the bottom of the dish a layer of cream a quarter of an inch deep, over that shake a coating of well grated cheese a quarter of an inch deep : if wide enough to hold them without crowding, slip in as care- fully as you can, to avoid breaking a single yolk,—six eggs ; give them a dust of black pepper, and salt, and pour a little more cream over the surface, coating it over again with grated cheese. Let the dish remain in the oven until the eggs are set without being hard,—the time will depend upon the state of the oven,—brown the surface by passing a172 CULIJTjillY JOWIJTGS FOif JdJKgiyiS. red hot iron backwards and forwards over it, about an inch above the cheese, and serve. The cream should be really thick and rich, or the effect of the little entrcmet will be “ poor indeed.” This dish may be added to by first placing a layer of maccaroni in the pie-dish, the cream being poured over it, then the cheese, and so on. “ CEufs au gratin’’:—Butter the bottom of a pie-dish previously well rubbed with shallot, and line it with some maccaroni already boiled in milk, pour round it some melted butter in which you have dissolved some grated Parmesan, or other mild well rasped cheese, and upon that dispose a complete layer of hard boiled eggs, sliced. A finely minced anchovy should be sprinkled over the eggs with pepper and salt or, better still, with a judicious dressing of “ spiced salt” (q. v., page 90) for seasoning; and then a nice coating of bread-crumbs, and grated cheese mixed in equal proportions : drop a number of little bits of butter the size of a pea over the surface, and bake the dish till the top takes a golden brown tint. Slices of tomato, drained of their watery juice, and with their seeds picked out, may be laid upon the egg, or thin slices of Bologna sausage; and mushrooms, or truffle trimmings, may be chopped up, and sprinkled over them: there is obviously ample scope for culinary ingenuity in the enrichment of “ceufs au gratin’’ “CEufs farcis” :—Boil six eggs for half an hour, take them out, and plunge them into cold water. When quite cold, peel off their shells, and, with a dessert knife rubbed in butter, divide each egg in half, slicing a little piece off the rounded ends to admit of each half sitting upright upon a dish: now pick out the yolks, pound them with butter in a mortar, and proceed to dress them with any tasty trifles at your command, season the composition delicately, and fill the egg cases therewith, trimming the farce neatly, with a des- sert knife dipped in melted butter, in a convex shape over each case,—for there will be more than enough mixture to merely fill each cavity. For the farce you can use finely173 EG-G-S, JtfjZCCjltfOJfl, JIJTQ CHEESE. minced olives, capers, anchovies, mushrooms, and truffles; very finely grated ham, the bruised liver of a chicken, the re- mains of a pdtd de foie gras, or a little sausage meat. A judi- cious selection of two or three of these ingredients, seasoned with “ spiced pepper” is what you require,—say, one tea- spoonful of mixed farce to each half yolk. Having dressed your cases to your mind, fry a little square of bread for each one, as for canapds (q. v., page 141) and place them thereon : arrange them on a flat silver dish slightly buttered, pour a little melted butter over each egg, and bake for five minutes. Some nicely fried breaxl-crumbs may be strewn over the dish when going to table. Eggs may, of course, be served in this manner very plainly farcis: a little minced curled parsley or marjoram, with a pounded anchovy, and some chopped olive, for instance, would not be a bad mixture when worked up with the hard yolks. Hard boiled eggs may be fricasseed, or gently heated up, in a rich sauce like veloutd, Espagnole, orpoulette, and those who do not object to fried onions, might do worse than con- coct a dish with their assistance in this way :— . ®ufs oignons :—Slice up a good sized Bombav onion, and fry the rings in butter till they are nice and biown, add a little flour to the butter, and when it is mixed, poui in a breakfast cup of cream or fresh milk : give this a dusting with salt and “spiced pepper,” and put into the sauce four hard boiled eggs cut into slices; simmer the sauce-pan till its contents are thoroughly hot, and servo garnished with curls of crisply fried bacon, alternated with neatly cut pieces of fried bread. If you desire to err on the side of studied simplicity, cut four hard boiled eggs in halves, trim them like “ ceufs /ams to stand upright, set them on a flat silver dish slightly buttered, and bake them until quite hot, then serve with a cap of 'niaitre d hotel. butter, prawn butter (or any fancy eri?ft from la?.fc. night’s dinner) meltiDg over each half egg o o The error will be pardonable.CULTfljLTlY J0YY1J7GS FOf? 174 “ (Eufs aux topinambours”:—This delicious entremet should be prepared in this wise:—choose four good sized Jerusalem artichokes, trim, boil, and set them to cool; take four hard boiled eggs, and cut them in halves; out of the artichokes prepare eight flat slices, and place half an egg upon each slice with the rounded end uppermost; set them on a buttered dish, heat them thoroughly in the oven, and just before serving, pour over them some thickly worked “ veloute cm parmesan,” or some melted maitre d’hotel butter. A dusting of “ spiced salt” should be given on taking the eggs from the oven. This is nicer still with artichoke bottoms,—the leafy kind. Maccaroni, and the numerous varieties of the Italian paste family of which it is the best known member, should invari- ably be plunged into boiling water to commence with—no matter whether you intend to cook them in milk, or stock, afterwards—in order to rid them of the imperceptible dirt which clings to them. Remember that maccaroni is a much handled comestible, and that washing it in water is not enough. I adverted to this when speaking of soups (page 27), and described how the cleansing can alone be effected. Besides, maccaroni must not be wetted to begin with by any liquid not boiling. Mark these golden rules :—“ washing maccaroni is useless and unnecessary, putting it to cook in cold water is a blunder, soaking it is a crime.” Treat it as our native cooks do rice,—here let me yield to Ramasamy, or his tunnycutch (?) the praise that either he, or she, deserves,— and throw it into plenty of boiling water, test it occasionally with a fork, as soon as it is nice and tender, stop the boiling by a dash of cold water, lift the vessel, and drain it com- pletely returning the maccaroni to the hot pan. If you want to cook Italian pastes in milk or stock, whichever you use should be boiling: parboil the paste in boiling water for five minutes to clean it, drain it carefully, and turn it into the stock or milk as the case may be to finish cooking. “ Maccaroni d V Italienne” will be found in Chapter XXV, (page 143).EGGS, JAJlCCJH{OJT.I, jfiJTQ CHEESE. 175 Another excellent method may be described as follows:— Make a breakfast capful of good chicken broth flavoured with an onion, sweet herbs, and black pepper corns. With that make a nice “veloute cm fromage” in this way:—melt an ounce of butter in a sauce-pau, stir into it a table-spoonful of flour, mix them to a paste and by degrees pour in the chicken broth; as this is heating up, add to it two ounces of grated cheese, or Parmesan from the bottle, a table-spoon- ful of powdered mustard, salt, and spiced pepper,” at discretion ; continue to stir the sauce until it reaches a creamy thickness, when you can finish it by a table-spoonful of cream. Now put into the sauce two ounces of boiled maccaroni, heat it up well without boiling, and serve. The association of tomatoes with maccaroni seems to be as happy as that of green peas with a duckling, egg sauce with salt fish, or red currant jelly with a well hung saddle. These vegetables are generally applied in the form of pur€e, to achieve which you must cut them into quarters, trim them from stalk, &c., and put them into a sauce-pan with just sufficient water to cover them, a few pepper corns, two or three cloves of garlic, a tea-spoonful of dried basil, and a little salt; boil till the quarters are quite soft, and then turn the contents of the sauce-pan out upon a hair sieve. Let the watery part escape, you do not want it, and when thus drained, pick out the garlic, and rub the vegetable through the sieve with a wooden spoon: the pulp that comes through,—well peppered with black pepper,—must be heated again with a lump of butter before it is mixed with the maccaroni. Maccaroni with “ conserva di pomi d’oro” is an Italian delicacy. The conserva is, as may readily be supposed, a regular jam made by reducing a good quantity of the puree aforesaid in a sauce-pan over the fire, stirring it without ceasing until it attains the consistency of paste. This may be preserved in bottles, and if securely corked, and waxed, will keep well. During their season tomatoes absolutely rot on the ground in many a private garden in this Presi-176 CULIJl^Y J0YYIJ7G-S F0% MfiQFJlE. dency: why permit such waste ? the trouble of making a few bottles of this conserve would be amply repaid when the plants have died down. A spoonful or two of the preserve, thinned with a very little stock, and with a pat of butter worked into it, would at all times be handy for dressing mac- caroni. A dusting of finely grated cheese should, of course, accompany it. Here is a ' foreign composition’ which I commend to the at- tention of those who like Italian cookery :—Mince a clove of garlic, a shallot, three anchovies, boned and well wiped from the tin oil, and four olives, put the mince into a small sauce- pan with three table-spoonsful of the best salad oil,boil till the bits of garlic and onion begin to brown, and then turn the mixture into a sauce-pan containing a large dish of hot boiled maccaroni, stir it well, and serve. An Italian cook would probably put in half a dozen, or more, cloves of garlic : in the proportions I have given, however, I do not think the taste of the bulb will be considered more prononce than it is in chutneys, and numerous dishes made in India which we eat without murmuring. The accepted form of serving maccaroni with English- men is either swimming in white sauce round a boiled fowl, or turkey, or in a pie-dish “ au gratin’’ The former is generally presented in such a flabby, tasteless manner, that the general unpopularity of the Italian paste may be easily accounted for. The “ au gratin’’ is better understood, but even there, there is room for im- provement. First boil the maccaroni as I have laid down, if in milk or stock, so much the better. Well butter a pie-dish, arrange the maccaroni therein neatly, give it a dusting with black pepper and salt, pour round it a cupful of good sauce blanche (q. v., page 66) in which you have mixed two ounces of grated cheese : let this run well in amongst the bed of maccaroni, and shake over the surface a liberal coating of grated cheese. Make this thoroughly hot, in the oven, brown the surface of the cheese by passing a hot iron about half an inch above it, and send it up. Mac-177 EGGS, MTQ? CHEESE. caroni “ au gratin’’ should be nice and moist: you can use cream instead of sauce blanche if you like, and tomato puree may be introduced in its composition. A little minced fish like herring, prawns, lobster, or anchovy, may be dotted about amongst the maccaroni, and with minced ham and chicken, or tongue and chicken, you can make a capital home-dinner entree, following in other respects the ordinary recipe. Several dishes will be found in my menus in which maccaroni figures, for I have the highest opinion of its merits in savoury cookery. The rules I have given will, I think, be found reliable with respect to all kinds of Italian paste, and I sincerely hope that what I have said may be the means of drawing my fellow exiles’ attention to a comestible which deserves far greater attention than it receives. An inexpensive article of food which, with a little attention, may be made a luxury, is surely a thing that the banished lover of good things can ill afford to despise. The “fondue’’ or “ cheese souffle” is the dish par excel- lence of which when successfully made, the good cook has just cause to be proud.' It requires the most delicate man- Iagement, and an atom will ruin the undertaking, for with all souffles, to fall short of perfection means failure. Prac- tice and experience go a long way towards turning out this piece de resistance satisfactorily, it is nevertheless one of those things in which the best hand may occasionally err; so, for a dinner party, beware of placing too great confidence in it, have another dish ready to go round in case the fondue fail to “ come off,” and don’t enter it in your menu. Here is the best recipe I ever read for this dish:— “ Melt an ounce of butter in an enamelled sauce-pan, and stir into it a table-spoonful of flour. When the two are well amalgamated, put in a small quantity of milk, and about three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. Stir the mixture on a very slow fire till it assumes the ap- pearance of thick cream, and beware of its becom- ing too hot, or boiling, for that would be fatal. Now178 CULJJ'TjUfY JOYYlJf G-3 JPOlf put m one clove of garlic, a small quantity of mustard povvder, a dash of grated nutmeg, and some white pepper. Mix thoroughly, and if upon tasting you find that it is lequired, add a little salt. Keep on stirring the mixture at a very moderate heat for quite ten minutes, then remove the garlic, take the sauce-pan from the fire, stirring occa- sionally till the contents are nearly cold, then add the yolks O OU1 previously beaten up with a table-spoonful of milk, and well strained ; mix well; incorporate swiftly with the mixture the whites of five eggs beaten to a froth, pour this into a deep round tin, and put it into the oven which must not be too hot; from twenty to thirty minutes baking will make the fondue ready for the table, to which it must be quickly sent, in its tin, with a napkin folded round it.”—(G.C.) If the early stage of preparing the fondue mixture were conducted in the bain-marie pan, there would be no risk of overheating it. A simpler recipe by the same author runs as follows:— Make a thickish paste in a sauce-pan with milk and flour, taking care that it is quite smooth : add to, and thoroughly mix with it as much grated cheese as you have used flour, and a little over, a small quantity of salt, a little flour of mustard, and some pepper. Beat up, if you have used as much as a pint of milk for the paste, three or four eggs. Incorporate them with the paste, then fill a dish, or a number of patty-pans with it, bake a nice brown colour, and serve. “ Ramequinsf or little fondues of cheese, are invariably popular. They are not hard to make : I choose a simple recipe which runs thus :—Put one ounce of butter in a roomy sauce-pan, with a quarter pint of water, a pinch of salt, and a dust of black pepper; boil it, and add two ounces of flour. Stir over the fire for four minutes, and then mix with it two ounces of grated Parmesan, and two eggs, one after the other. Put the paste thus formed on a buttered- baking sheet in lumps the size of a hen’s egg, flatten themEGGS, JdjlCCfillOJU, CHEESE. 179 slightly, brush them over with an egg, bake in the oven, and serve very hot. (Goufte.) “ Ramequins en caisses” :—Take two ounces of mild grated cheese, and two ounces of white bread-crumbs ; soak the crumbs in milk, and pound them in a mortar with the cheese, and a little butter, till the whole is well mixed ; now season the mixture with pepper and salt, adding a tea-spoonful of mustard powder, and the yolks of three eggs. Finally beat up the egg whites to a stiff froth, mingle it with the mix- ture, and fill your paper cases, which should be well buttered to prevent their burning outside, or “catching” the fondue within : bake them from ten minutes to a quarter of an hour, and serve them as soon as they have raised their heads, and have slightly taken colour. “ Beignets souffles au Parmesan” will be found at page 154?, and several dishes demanding cheese amongst the menus. N. B.—The best flour for fondues and souffles is potato flour. China souffle cases are nicer than paper ones.CHAPTER ♦ Camp Cookery. LTHOUGH no doubt there are many of my readers who have by long experience acquired the knack of making themselves thoroughly comfortable under canvas, and who, being fond of nice food and au fait in culinary science, contiive to eat and drink in camp as luxuriously as in cantonment, there must be, I take it, a good many travellers, sportsmen, soldiers, and others whose duties demand several months of tent-life per annum, who would like to pick up a wrinkle or two in the matter of cookery under difficulties. A friend of mine, who in addition to his passionate devotion to la chasse, possessed the keenest affection for his dinner, assured me, once upon a time, that good bread was the back-bone of happiness,—gustatory happiness that is to say,—in the jungle. In cantonment even, this man despised the miserable travesty called bread furnished by the native baker,-—they say he once saw it being made, never thought of it again without a shudder, and pre- ferred a home-made roll for ever afterwards. He carried his roll with him, so to speak, into camp, and with the aid of a talented servant, was able to bake hot, clean, white bread daily at a distance of many marches from an Eng- lish dwelling place. He used Yeatman’s baking powder, imported Australian or American flour, and a little salt.181 CjlJtftP COOKERY. Butter and milk were added in the case of his fancy petit pain, and he occasionally mixed oatmeal with the flour for variety. I often envied my friend’s bread, yet never took the trouble to follow his example until comparatively lately. My conversion was brought about by Mr. Woolf of 119, New Bond Street, who introduced me to the “Aemd cooking stove,” and gave me many a seance with regard to the use of Yeatman’s baking powder for which his firm are the London Agents. The man who could remain uncon- vinced after one of Mr. Woolf’s pleasant demonstrations, would be a stoic indeed. You are shown how to make a pound loaf,—“cottage” pattern, in rolls, or in the tin,— which is placed in the stove oven whilst you examine the numerous clever contrivances for the kitchen,—principally American inventions,—which form the speciality of the establishment. In less than half an hour the loaf, baked to perfection, is placed upon the table. Now here are two invaluable articles for the dweller in tents: a composition, perfectly climate-proof, by which he can turn out an excellent loaf of light, clean bread; and the oven to bake it in. mis cheaP’ portable, strong, and easily • Yp,.' 19 *ed b}' mineral oil, kerosine or parafine, and °n t0 °Ven’ Provides the cook with a capital ill- ° la,m§e adaPted for boiling, stewing, frying, and even & o- The size I recommend, after upwards of a year’s expense of its working,-ten months 0Pf that time hivJ widf> a r fr?IaS’ *s fitted with double wicks four inches cafbe Pu 42ed“rsutb & onnifni „„„„ 4 for that sum you have a a Kettle WJ. h. bakin§ ^Ifbes and a griddle, a radiator, diame pr ^“g-pan. Ordinary sauce-pans of a certain ”d6t Han > used,with it- A Warren’s cookin* pot fitted to the stove, is iurnished for £1-1 and a o-riller fm- ftVecanhl* eu?edaDfo f T*' ^ »°fc ed^coling can be used foi heating a room, for which purpose, you use 16lc?J? CULIJTJltfY JOZZIJTG-8 FOJJ JAJKJJIIJIS. the radiator, or ornamental chimney, previously mentioned. I lius adjusted, it is also very useful for airing damp linen or drying wet clothes : you have merely to place a large circular basket over it, and spread the things thereon, for the chimney is so contrived that the heat radiates laterally, and there is therefore no chance of burning or scorchino- In camp, the first thing the Acmd would do for you would be to boil the water for your tea : if a raw December, or January morning in the Deccan, or on the plateau of Mysore,you would not object to the operation being performed inside your tent, for the warmth would be very pleasant. It would then bake the bread for your breakfast, and warm up any rechauffe destined for that meal at the same time. During the day it would make the soup, and in the evening be available for work for dinner. I do not say that you could do without a charcoal fire, but the stove would do a large portion of the day’s cooking, and in a way vastly superior to any ordinary fire, either in camp or cantonment. In soup-making, tor instance, and in stewing operations, you possess the power of producing the exact amount of heat you need by turning down the wicks at will. I have made a pot au feu, in a Warren’s kettle placed upon my Acmd, the like of which I defj'' a native cook to produce with a common cookroom fire, simply on account of this regulating power. A gallon flask of kerosine oil should be made to fit the stove box for short periods of camp life. If a man were settled in a standing camp, or out in his district for an indefinite period, he would, of course, require a keg of oil. j I use my stove for some hours daily, and my month’s 1 expenditure does not exceed ten quart bottles. Another of Mi’. Woolf’s valuable inventions, which I can | strongly advise the traveller to obtain, is the “Lang spirit 1 lamp:” the large one costs five shillings and sixpence, and is a never failing source of comfort on a journey. In camp | it would be found a most useful appendage to the Acme | stove for light work, such as boiling milk for coffee, cooking eggs in all sorts of ways, heating sauces, frying bacon, &c. *Iff 8 OfiJA^P COOKERY. I use mine for omelettes almost every day in cantonment, for which work it is admirably adapted. With a “ Lang lamp” you can make a cup of tea or coffee in the train, by the side of the road, on arrival at a public bungalow, or under a tree whilst the lascars are pitching your tent: and by its aid, and that of a small fr}fing-pan, you can devil a biscuit, fry a rasher, poach an egg, or cook a kidney, to accompany the tea or coffee. It is fed by methylated spirit, a gallon of which would last for at least two months. Having thus directed your attention to two excellent appliances for the camp kitchen,* I will return to the subject of baking bread, for your servants can always contrive afield oven for you without difficulty, which, though infinitely inferior to that of the stove, will perform the task required of it ^fairly enough. But in wet weather, the owner of an Acme will, of course, laugh and grow fat, whilst his neighbour with only Ramasamy’s fine weather make-shift to fall back upon, will beg for bread. I have baked at home regularly now for ten months, using, for ordinary bread, Yeatman’s baking powder, American flour, salt, and water; for fancy rolls, the same with butter, and milk; and have discovered, after many experi- ments, that in this country, the proportions of baking powder to flour which are laid down in the paper of direc- tions accompanying each tin, have to be increased. For eight ounces of flour, for instance, I find that I have to use two tea-spoonsful of Yeatman. I may say without hesitation that very few bread- makers hit off* perfection at starting. I struggled through many disheartening attempts, before I turned out the thing I wanted. The common mistakes are overworking the dough, and using too much liquid. The mixing of dough with the proper quantity of fluid can only be acquired by practice, and all beginners knead too heavily through over * There are, I dare say, cooking stoves, fed by mineral oils, patented by other farms, which are similar to the Acme in working : I have confined my remarks to the one which I have thoroughly tested.GULIJTfiliY JOYYIJTGa FOF{ MJiQZflS. zeal. Watch a professor. The fair haired artiste who demonstrates bread-making at Mr. Woolfs’, makes a pound loaf with three-quarters of a tea-cupful of water: her touch is as light as a feather, and the dough is made with wonderful swiftness. I have taught my servant to use two wooden spoons to work his dough with, the result is satisfactory as. regards the lightness of the bread, and to those who dislike eating food mauled by native finders, the system is especially attractive. If by any chance your dough has been made too sloppily, and from its putty- like consistency you feel convinced it will be heavj', bake it in a tin. The paraphernalia of the home-baker should be:—a large enamelled iron milk basin, two wooden spoons, a floui dredger, scales to weigh the flour, some patty-pans for rolls, some small tins for ditto, a baking sheet, a half pound and pound loaf tin, and a cake tin : these various things are not expensive, they should be kept in the house (when in cantonment) away from thecook-room, as clean as possible,and be scrupulously reserved for their own purposes. Having provided^ yourself with this equipment, you should use ^ eatman s baking powder, the best imported flour you can get, oatmeal occasionally, salt, and either good butter made at home, or that of any well known brand preserved in tin. Here is a reliable receipt for four nice breakfast or dinner rolls:— eight ounces of flour, one dessert spoonful of good butter, two tea-spoonsful of Yeatman’s powder, one salt-spoonful of salt, four table spoonsful of warm milk. Rub the butter into the flour with one of the wooden spoons after having spread the latter in the enamelled pan, sprinkle the salt over it, and mix your dough as lightly as you can, using both wooden spoons, and shaking the milkCJlJdtP COOKERY. 1SS into the flour by degrees. When nicely formed, add the baking powder (last thing of all mark) stir it well into the dough, divide it into four equal portions, pat them into shape with the spoons, and place them in four patty- pans well buttered : These must be put on the baking sheet, and slipped into the oven, which should have been heated to receive them to such a degree that you can hardly bear your hand inside it. The time taken in baking depends upon the sort of oven you employ : as soon as the rolls brown very slightly, having risen- into nice round forms, they are ready. This recipe may be altered to five ounces of flour, and three of oatmeal, for a change. “ French Rolls —Half a pound of flour, a dessert-spoon- ful of butter, one small egg, two tea-spoonsful of Yeatman’s powder, a salt-spoonful of salt, four table-spoon9ful of warm milk. Work the butter into the flour. Beat the egg up with the warm milk, and strain it into another cup, dust the salt over the flour, and gradually add the eggy-milk till the dough is formed; then mix the baking powder into it thoroughly; form the dough into two nice oblong rolls, place them on a sheet of well buttered paper, on the baking tin, and set them in the oven ; look, at them after twenty minutes baking, and take them out as soon as their colour indicates that they are done. “ Half pound plain loaf”—Half a pound of flour, two tea-spoonsful of Yeatman’s powder, a salt-spoonful of salt, four or five table-spoonsful of warm water. Work this as above, reserving the baking powder to the last, set the dough in a tin, or form it in the well known “ cottage”, shape, and bake. The ordinary cookery book receipts for fancy breads can be safely followed if you remember the proportion of the baking powder to the pound of flour, and, where eggs are pro- pounded, make an allowance for the difference which exists between the English and the Indian egg. In using Yeatman’s powder,do not let your made rolls, or bread, stand waiting for136 CTJL&r&lT JOWrVG-8 Foil MfiQUjiS. the oven: see that your baking apparatus is all but readv that"'IT COmm?r.tmtki,ng the bread* You wil1 observe tl at I lecommend the baking powder to be put into the * ough, not mixed with the flour in a dry state to start with in London Mr. Woolf follows the latter method. I cannot exp am what causes it, but I have found that the bread never turns out so satisfactorily here, if the powder be put lnearJv: the temperature may have something to do with tins ; at all events, experience seems to show that the pow- cer expends its effect to-a great extent, during the working of the dough if mixed with the flour first; whereas, if put in as a finishing touch, the bread being rapidly consigned to the oven, the result is invariably satisfactory. I advise home-bakers to make rolls rather than large loaves There is ess waste with them. A roll is either eaten in toto or eft untouched. . If intact, you have merely to dip it in milk, and put it into the oven—damp; it will turn out a»ain almost as freshly as a new roll. Bread, once cut, is apt to get dry, and with the exception of being sliced for toast or grated for bread-crumbs, is not very presentable a second’ time In baking, be very careful that your flour is well sifted and thoroughly dry. In a moist climate like this it is advisable to dry it in the oven before using it; the sifting must be carried out by a sieve. I have made very eatable bread with carefully sifted country flour, the sifting of which is an imperative necessity, be it observed, unless you have no objection to a gravelly loaf. Now let us discuss the animal and vegetable food of camp life, taking soups first:— . Many people think that because they cannot get beef in camp, they cannot have a freshly made soup. Now there are a few capital soups requiring no meat at all, which are known as ‘ soupcs <xu maigre.” I will give you two : Soupe a l oignon : —Slice a couple of Bombay onions • powder them well with flour, let them fry awhile in a stew- pan with plenty of butter; before they begin to brown at all add water, pepper, and salt, let the whole boil till theCjLM<P COOKERY. 187 onions are well done and serve with croutons of fried bread. Grated Parmesan should accompany. “ Soupe aux choux”.—Let us assume that you have taken a cabbage or two with you when you left cantonment. Cut the cabbage into quarters, put them into a sauce-pan with a good sized slice of bacon, some slices of a Bologna sausage, and a bag containing sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, pepper, and a little spice; add water enough to cover the whole, and let the soup simmer till the cabbage is done, serve with crotitons of fried bread. A bacon bone would assist the undertaking greatly. But you need not condemn yourself to “ soupes cm maigre” whenever there are sheep, and fowls, to be had, when you can shoot game, and lastly, when j^ou are provided with tinned soups, and preserved vegetables, especially that excellent tablet called ‘’Julienne” In camp, bottles of dried herbs, and tinned provisions are, of course, indispen- sable, and you should be provided with potatoes and onions before starting. Soups in tins can be turned to excellent account in this wayKill a good full-sized fowl, cut it up, and put it, giblets and all, into a stew-pan ; cover it with water, and let it come slowly to the boil, skimming off the scum which may rise during that process ; when the boiling stage has been attained, take the pan from the fire for a minute and thiow into it a Bombay onion, cut into quarters, any fresh vegetables you may have brought out, a bag of mixed sweet herbs, the peel of a lime, a dozen pepper corns, a pinch of parsley seed, a few drops of celery essence, and a dessert-spoonful of salt. Now let the pan boil a^ain till the onion is soft, and then reduce the fire for the simmering stage. When the pieces of fowl are nice and tender, the broth is ready : long cooking will avail nothin^ • so lift up your pan, and strain ofi the broth into a bowl it will be beautifully bright and clear; slightly tinted with caramel (page 28) and served hot with a tea-spoonful of*** CULIJJJH?Y JOZYIJiG-S F0% MjKgltfS. Madeira and a dissolved tea-spoonful of “ Julienne,” this consomme devolaille will be found sufficient for two hungry men. When used in connection with a tin of soup, the broth should be poured from the bowl into the pan again, and the tin of soup added to it;* a slow process of boding should now be commenced, during which any scum, the soup may throw up should be studiously removed, for all tinny impurities will thus be got rid of: when all but boiling, a table-spoonful of Madeira should be added, and the soup served. The pieces of fowl may be served in the form of fricassee, with maccaroni and tomato conserve, &c. Very valuable stock, remember, can be made from cold roast mutton bones—(don’t try raw mutton, the taste will be tallowy)—assisted by bacon skin, bones and trimmings, a thick slice of Brunswick or Bologna sausage, and a chicken, or any game you can spare. Birds that have been mauled in shooting can thus be utilized. Purees of game can be made if you have taken out your utensils (page 38), if not, you must make the game broth as strong as possible, helped by a fowl as stock, and thicken it with flour. The addition of Madeira or port is, of course, a sine qud non. Tinned fish served,—as you sometimes see salmon,— plainly, and hot is exceedingly nasty, and in no way im- proved by a cold sauce like tartare. Who, after a moment’s reflection, could send up hot fish with a cold sauce ? Pre- served salmon, fresh herrings, and other tinned fresh fish, if served with tartare or mayonnaise, sauces should be served cold, after having been carefully drained on a sieve from all the tinning juices which adhered to them. Select nice sized pieces, place them on a dish with any garnish you may have such as olives farcies, capers, sliced gherkins, and rolled anchovies, and send the sauce round in a boat. If }Tou want a hot dish of tinned fish, you must choose the nicest pieces and gently warm them up in a rich matelotte * If a thick soup, like mockturtle for instance, you must thicken the consomme with a little flour.Cfijd. CP COOKERY. 18 9 sauce, veloutd, or poulette, or you must wrap them en papi- lottes and broil them a moment (page 48.) All trimmings and odd bits can be saved and worked up as rissoles, or in any of the ways I have mentioned for cold fish in earlier chapters. Fresh-water fish is often to be had by men out in camp. In cooking them, many recipes already given for filleted fish may be followed : clean them thoroughly, wash them well to get rid of all muddy taste, scale, trim, and soak them after cleaning, in water. A fish like murrel may be treated like a pike:—after having been carefully cleansed, and trimmed, stuff it with turkey forcemeat (page 88) sew it up, trim it in a circular shape with its tail in its mouth and bake it in apie-dishsurroundedby chicken stockabouthalfan inch deep. A glass of any white winelike hock, chablis, or sau- terne may be put into the stock, and onion, and any vegeta- bles you can spare. The fish should be basted every now and then, and when it had absorbed the gravy and seems soft, take it out of the oven. Put a pat of mditre d’hotel butter on the top of it, and serve in its own dish with a napkin folded round it. A good sized murrel will take from half an hour, to three quarters in baking. A stuffing made with a tinful oysters, well drained and cut up, mixed with a pint of bread-crumbs soaked in milk or stock, some spiced pepper, a little chopped lime peel, and a couple of minced anchovies, all stirred together, and bound with a couple of eogs> is highly acceptable with a murrel. Eels ought to be slightly boiled first, whatever you do with them, you then get rid of their oiliness. After being thus treated, you can cut them into fillets for frying, for stewing, or for a pie. Eel fillets dipped in batter, and fried in oil (lots of it) with a plain sharp sauce are delicious. The matelolte will be found in the menus. Tinned Australian, and other preserved lumps of meat, are valuable additions, to the store box of the jungle-wallah/but they require very delicate handling, because they are almost190 cuLgwiiY aa foii JWifcss. always overdone. The really nutritious part of a tin of knows X meaV9 the gl'avy thafc surrounds it. Ramasamy nn^Zrl hlJ 1° beware 0f unriShteous dealing, see the tin a^owl’ Tn m eVeIy atT of the Sravy strained off into fnb°r- nIn cold1 weather, during such nights as you have in the Deccan during December and January for instance t e toravy in these tins becomes a jelly, so before you open one set it on the fire in a sauce-pan surrounded by arlwter fo7vteP. m.lnutes or 80; now open it, and strain the toiavy iiom the tin into a bowl; turn the meat out carefully upon your sieve, and pour some hot water gently over it catch the water in a bowl below the sieve, and add it to the gravy. Now the gravy of atwo-pound tin of beef will, as arule give you an excellent stock for two basins of soup:—skim the fat that may rise to its surface, and put it into a sauce- pan with a bag of sweet herbs, an onion cut into quarters, any vegetables you can spare, some pepper corns, a pinch of spice, and salt according to the quantity : simmer this gently to extract the flavour of the things you have added, and in about a couple of hours you will have an excellent consomme, quite fit to be served as soup, with maccaroni, vermicelli^ a couple of poached eggs, or Julienne, grated cheese accom- panying ; a table-spoonful of Madeira will be a grateful finishing stroke. .The meat should be treated in this way:—choose the nicest looking pieces, trim them neatly, and if of a fair size, brush them over with egg, bread-crumb them, and brown them m the oven, serving a good sauce,—tomato, soubise, or piquante for instance, with them. Or you can cut the meat into collops, and hash it very gently in a carefully made gravy. Lastly, you can mince it (as I have described in Chapter XXIII) and serve it in many nice ways, one of which may be thus described: —Having made your mince and flavoured it with a little chopped olive, anchovy, sausage meat, &c., bind it with a couple of eggs, and let it get cold ; make a good sized thin pancake, take it from the pan when almost done, put it on a dish, and strew some slices of cold cooked bacon upon it, spread the mince over the191 CJJJCP COOKERY. bacon, give it a dust of spiced pepper, and roll the pancake over like a roly-poly pudding : brush it over with an egg, bread-crumb it, and bake it a golden brown in your oven. If you look upon a tin of preserved meat as a dish that has been cooked once, and has accordingly to bo dressed en rechauffes, you will not fail to turn it to good account. But warmed up as it comes from the tin, unaided, and carelessly dished, it preseuts an irregular mass of sodden and tasteless diet which few would care to touch unless driven to do so by the calls of ungovernable hunger. Messes like Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell’s “ducks and green peas,” “ Irish stew,” “ ox cheek and vegetables,” &c., should be avoided carefully, but if you find that your butler has sent such things to camp, you must pick the meat out of its surroundings, dress it with some fresh chicken meat, as a rissole, or a mince, and cook the gravy and vegetables with some fresh chicken broth as a sauce. I have already spoken of tinned vegetables, (pages 122 and 123) and also of the produce of the country. The traveller ought to try and find out what country garden stuff can be got from the villages near his camp. The recipes I have given will be found easy, and the monotony of tinned food will be much relieved by an occasional nicely dressed dish of common vegetables. I will conclude this chapter with a reliable recipe for cooking a hare. If you have shot the hare yourself so much the better1 * * * * *, for then you will not find its heart, liver and kidne}7s gone. Skin, clean, and wash the animal well, saving the three parts I have mentioned carefully; when quite clean, wipe the carcass inside and out, and fill it with a well made stuffing as for turkey (page 88). The kidneys and heart should be minced, fried in fat bacon, with a little onion; when done, the contents of the pan should be poured into a bowl to cool, and when cold, pounded to a paste, and mixed with the forcemeat. The back of the hare should be larded,192 ouLijsfjn^Y jOttrrvG-s foi£ or covered with thin slices of bacon pinned down with little skewers it should then be roasted, a constant basting 0f melted butter being kept up throughout the process. When nearlv done, the bacon strips should be removed, and the back lightly diedged with flour; the skin should be allowed to b^ow^ and run into crisp blisters, the hare should then be served — with a sauce made with separate gravy thickened anri pounded liver added thereto: with 0? por“1ne^ tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, and the juiceof a lime S°TtimeS envel°Pes hare in a coatin* of li0ht batter. Pi ay caution him never to do so again. ° Many of the dishes detailed in previous chapters, especi- ally those spoken of under the title of “ Ecms. maccaroni and cheese,” will be found practicable fn the camp •’ amongst the menus, more than one nice recipe for cooking mutton, fowls and chickens, has been recorded; in short if the pilgrim be blessed by the possession of an intelligent cook, and provided with a judicious assortment of culinary necessaries and stores, his tent life should never fail to pos- sess amongst its many attractions that indubitably import- ant one—a really good dinner. y F End of Part I.PART II. TWENTY-FIVE MENUS WORKED OUT TlsT IDE 17NOTE. HE menus have been revised and corrected. They are all susceptible of being doubled for larger parties than those they have been designed for. Though each menu is given in French, the English names of the dishes it contains will be found in the margin of the detail of instructions. I have not attempted to treat of sweet dishes in this work, but here and there an entremet sucre of a simple kind will be discovered amongst my recipes. For hors d’ceuvres, please consult the chapter I have devoted to them. Wyvern. ~V_iHXCEINTCT No. I. ♦ For a party of eight. Consomme aux quenelles. Seer aux concombres. Aspic de puree de volaille a la reine. Grenadins de boeuf a la Bearnaise. Selle de mouton aux haricots verts. Galantines de cailles, sauce tartare. Epinards a la creme. Pain de fraises. Boudin glace aux abricots. Cream cheese, dry biscuits, fancy butter. Dessert. 1.—Let us have prawn quenelles for our clear well- flavoured consomme, to flavour which nones'* S°UP With qU6‘ don>t forget a bundle of dried basil, and a table-spoonful of Madeira. Make the quenelles thus:—Pound a dozen and a half well-cleaned prawns with half their bulk of crumb of bread, soaked in stock; work in with the paste two whole raw eggs, and season with a pinch of salt, a dusting of white, or Nepaul pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce : when thoroughly blended, and of the right consistency, form your tiny olive-shaped quenelles between196 MEJ1U POi? J1 <P£I&Y OF EIG-R9T. two tea-spoons, poach them for o •*- u drain them'and add '«<> & “ & 2.—This is a dish of fish plainly stewed in brown «ravy Seer with cucumbers. sweet Wbs, spLt anda'gl aTs'of cite?! Idd foT ThiCken ^^av^with^u^td ZufanS he °’ifcl^f°athi'ck^ pieces^oIZh ^ eat altogether, till the stew steams freely, and serve. ’ S.-Here we have a mould of creme de volatile, nicely Mould of chicken in ed> enveloped in a larger mould * ot asPlc Je%> and served with a sauce a broth fwifP *i :made in this manner:—Make as strong a bioth (with the bones of the fowl, and all parts not strained andfrfTf^ asfyou.caui work this when cold, J, ”^volks of two ?fc> Wlfch “elted butter, flour, and sauce strain it +f°S’ ien„as thlck as a rich mayonnaise ice hoV V 1 f?gh a fine sieve> a“d “t it in the e box. You must treat your puree thus:—pick the meat parTsaS iy rT>i fowl. carefully excluding all bum pennei silt Teii«1 T” “ » •‘mU pan, throw in some ofPthe foil ’ If dned sweet hei’bs, and tbe meat bri‘h? Z ihZ thfmJogethev for five minutes over a x, ° & bie, then empty the pan into a mortar, and pound e meat to a paste; add half its bulk of crumb of bread thfmstTtZ ’iandrhen-th°r0Ughly incorporated, pass the paste thiough a hair sieve. Moisten the pur'ee with and ndd thSaUCe’ /J'ghfcly flavour it with sweet almonds, of IS?6!01' four eggs. Now introduce a good allowance of tiuffles cut into dice. Butter a plain mould, fill it with 3 our puree, and steam it in your Warren’s pot, or in a Zfe.e w? STe'Pan P^ged into a larger vessel full of TlnZv ? S d0ne’ lefc Xt °et cold> turn ifc 0l>t, atld set it in ice-box m°U d ’ P0ur some asPic r°und it, and set it in the197 JAEJIU FOIl Jt FjUlHY OF EIG-HY. 4. —Choose a nice fillet of beef, or the tender meat of a piece of the ribs. Trim this into heart- hs™?9 °f beef shaPed filets of a size large enough for one person each ; lard them with lab bacon, and set them to marinade all day, as described in Chapter XII, page 55: when ready, drain them, and stew them gently in as rich a stock as you can make from the meat and bones you had over after shaping them : when done, strain the gravy, add one tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and the yolks of four eggs, slightly thickened in a sauce- pan with the lump of melted butter; incorporate these quickly,—the sauce should be thickish, and creamy,—pour it round your grenadins, and serve. Madeira should be added to the gravy during the stewing process, a couple of table- spoonsful ought to be enough for eight grenadins. Dish them round a mould, of carefully mashed potato, and intro- duce a slice of crisply fried bread between each of them. 5. —Speaks for itself: don’t forget to follow my advice about trimming your French beans, Saddle °f mutton with. cpacre 107) and dish them with a good tench bnnn,. ’{ rioh cream, boiling hot, added at the very last moment. 6. —Buy eight quails, four sheeps’ tongues, a little lamb’s liver, and a couple of pounds of gravy withStSene8au?edr0lled’ meat" Make S''avy at once wifch tlie last, boil the tongues, and bone the quails: throw the bones into the gravy, and all scraps you may have of bacon, &c. Now place your boned-birds, breast downwards, on a board, and dust them over with spiced pepper. Proceed to make a forcemeat thus :—Melt a couple !of thick slices of fat bacon in a frying-pan; when melted, throw in three table-spoonsful of the lamb’s liver, and those of the birds too, cut into dice, and one onion shredded finely ; cook the liver in this, and when done, empty the contents of your pan into a mortar, throw in a pinch of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, work this to a paste, pass it through the sieve, add some finely minced parsley, garden-cress, a salt- spoonful of powdered dried thyme, a little grated lime peel, and193 JtfEJTU F01? jS (P£Z?2r OP1 SSi|S=SSi£ out drain off th,T~! g''«« of «negar: when done, lift them mint 7th! g y’thlokeD' and reduce it to a »laze • them in he' ceZ °Ve1' nith the glaze whe“ <»l3, slicS Of lirn! I: and/a™lsh y°ur dish with parsley, and slices of lime. Sauce tartare, also iced, should accompany. 7. —As a change, I highly recommend you to try little Spinach with cream. short-bread biscuits with this in which been mixed ; >“ 8. A simple, and refined cold sweet entremet. Make Mould of strawberries. some strawberry syrup by diluting a thrmcrfi ™ Pot °f strawberry jam with water, as though you were going to make a water ice: melt some isinglass, and strain it, when cold, into the syrup stS •well. decorate a plain mould with almonds, put it on ice and pour your strawberry syrup into it; cover it over, and set it in ice for two hours ; turn it out, and serve it with cold custard in glasses. . •?.'_An ordinaiT apricot cream ice, puddfngApncofc cream ^ pieces of crystallized apricots introduced here and there.IVIZEUIT UNTO. II. For a dinner of four friends. Potage a la tortue clair Seer, aux champignons. Poulette a la St. Lambert. Filet de bceuf aux haricots verts, sauce a la Wyvern Petits pois an lard. Fruits a la creme. Boudin glace Fromage, hors d’ceuvres. Dessert. 1.—This soup which is simply the ordinary mock-turtle not thickened, is to my mind the nicer form of the two; tastes vary however, so I shall describe both methods. First, for the clear :—Procure the stock meat as usual, and either half an ox-head unskinned, or a sheep’s head (a calf’s head is the proper thing, but we must deal with fact, not fiction, knowing that we cannot get veal here), well,—clean the head thoroughly, keeping the skin on, and scalding it to get rid of the hair or wool: remove every atom of brain, and wash the meat in several waters, set it to soak awhile in cold water, and then place it in your soup kettle; cover it with water and let it boil slowly for half an hour, skimming all fat, and scum that rises : take it up (it will be about half done) and set it with a weight200 Mejtu F0Ii of fqu^ shin &c°nina^diS t0 flafcfc,ei1 and cold. Now throw your shin, “C-j into the soup kettle adding to the liquor alreadv proceedUfoCient ^ l° C°Ver the “eatwmpletely : ?etaidLX1b jr C0WSTm" skif ming veiT carefully, and letaidmg the boiling point as much as you can by periodical and adTtlTerl Whe" boiU"= **« Iff Bombay onions in quarters, a head of celery a couple of carrots, the rind of two limes, a larcre bunch of spoonful ofT fTnCe °f fHed basil> (sold in bottles) a tea- lin half led thyme>and ot marjoram, (the herbs in a mus- iin ba ) a dozen pepper corns, two anchovies cut up, half a f- of mushroom.ketchup, a tea-spoonful of cammed and miiT6"8 0! 7110! f01' about th'ree hours, skimming the to Z ocSrasionaI1y. and on no account permitting the vessel bow?! No.w ^ry carefully, and set the "soup in a info ™ cool, and throw up all grease. Cut the cold head to one:and-half inch squares, skim the cool soup well, and infco a larSe sauce-pan, adding the pieces of head, iiet the pieces cook gently in the consomme for half an hour, then drain them, and again strain the soup; clarify it f necessary adding a glass of Madeira and a few drops of mie juice; let this heat up finally and pour the soup into the tureen, over a dozen or so carefully selected pieces ot the head arranged therein. Serve, with limes cut into quarters which should be handed round, and Madeira should iohow. 1 he basil is most necessary, and the whole success or the soup depends upon a strict attention to the flavouring herbs, and ingredients. For the thickGo back to the period when you strained Thick mock-turtle. the soup, and set it to get cool. Take r .. , ’ a lai’ge sauce-pan, and melt at the bottom of it quarter pound of butter, mix into it three ounces of flour, when it looks nice and velvety, gently add your soup, (stirring it in by cupsful) and the pieces of head. a glass of Madeira should now go in, with a few drops of hme juice; let the soup come up to the boil to thicken properly and let it simmer slowly immediately afterwards, constantly stirring to prevent the meat sticking to the bot-JAEJTU Foil fi QIJIJIEIl OF FOUR SOI tom of the pan. When ready (which you will decide by testing the meat), you can add a little more Madeira if y°u find it needed, and serve. Some people make forcemeat halls of hard boiled eggs, or of chicken, with a little ham or tongue, some savoury herbs, and eggs (which should be formed the size of pigeon’s eggs, and poached in gravy) and add them to the soup when serving. I think that the soup costs trouble enough without them, and so many people misunderstand what they are, that making forcemeat balls is often lost labour. 2.—Choose a good deep cut of seer fish, and boil it in salt and water. When done, divide it into Seer with mushrooms. . . . pieces, a nice size for each guest, and place them on one side, covered up. Make about a pint of thin brown sauce, with some gravy, a little onion, flour and butter, as described in Chapter XIII, using the flour sparing- ly, flavour with a little white wine, a very little red currant jelly, and a few drops of lime juice ; when you have worked it well, add a dozen “ black Leicestershire” mushrooms, and the pieces of fish ; heat up without boiling, and serve. Chiclceu, fa shion. S’Lambert 3.—Take two nice chickens, cut them up as if for fricassee, steep the pieces in cold water for half an hour, then drain them, and select the following pieces, viz.:—the four wings, the four legs, two breasts, and four thighs, and place them aside covered up. Take all that remains, viz.:—the backs, pinions, necks, livers, gizzards, and trimmings, and, with an onion cut up, some pepper corns, a few spoonsful of meat gravy, a bit of lime peel, a tea-spoonful of ketchup, and salt, make as good a pint of broth as you can ; when read}7, fish out the livers, and strain the broth. Now put into the stew-pan the selected joints of the chickens, cover them with the strained broth, and stew them gently till done, with one carrot, and a handful of French beans. Now pick out the chicken, strain the broth, and put the vegetables aside. Proceed with the broth to make a nice veloute (rich white sauce) flavoured with a dozen sweet almonds pounded.202 MBJTU FOZi fl QIJTJfEIl OF FOUI?. and thickened in the bain marie pan with the yolk of an Hashed potatoes, shaped like the pastry case of a vnl m, vent,_and nicely ornamented, can hold the chicken and the garnish should be sprinkled over the surface. 4.—Order the undercut of a sirloin, or two, if the beef hap- Fiiiet of beef with P” t0 *5® fa^d have them neatly French beans. Wwern tummed, tied to the spit, and roasted sauCe- ' over the brightest fire possible. Serve • . them with “mock new Dotatnps” no thirchaDte/ Th a"d harj°tS Wrt* UU bmm‘ 8*ven « tWs 3The .s?u,CeI TOnmmend should be made in mix with if f ^l iake your ordinary tartarc sauce, and now ^ocu»SeU in M'S °f " ” * ■»» 0.—Cook the peas as recommended in page 105, cut a thick Green peas with fried 5IfbaCOn int° S™a11 dice, fry them bacon. till they are dry and crisp, mix them with the peas, and serve. in SUel!as aPricots*strawberries,cherries,&c., in sjiup, with whipped cream.MEISrTJ ISJ'o. IIL For a party of eight. Potage a, la Julienne. Darnes de seer a la Pbrigueux. Filets de boeuf au creme d’anchois. Cassolettes a la financiere. Selle de mouton aux petits pois. - Quenelles de perdrix en aspic. (Eufs a la niege. Creme de pistache glace. Fromage, hors d’oeuvres. Dessert. 1.—A consignment of the French preserved Julienne has been received by a well known firm Julienne soup. jy[a(|rag> Armed with one of these tablets, you can achieve a Julienne soup which will at once show you what a lamentable parody of the true potage you have hitherto accepted without a murmur from your Rama- samy. Having made a good, strong, and clear consomme sufficient for your party, all you have to do is to add a por- tion of your Julienne tablet, which should be simply broken off carefully, placed in a sauce-pan with a large allowance of boiling water, or weak stock, and allowed to cook until the pieces of vegetable detach themselves, and appear nice and tender : drain them when thus ready, and add them to your consommd with a pinch of sugar, and a table-spoonful of Madeira. Each tablet is marked for five portions. Remember that a portion is enough for two persons: I have found a table-®°4 JAEJTU FOIl JL OF EIGHT. .'ws ,,lem }fhtly 011 tbe fire until thev take colour siio-htlv a h!ad of lettuce shredded finely, a little sorrel also shredded, and, after tossing the whole over the fire for five minutes or so, moisten them with a little oravv from consomme let the vegetables thus cooked remain i“ the gravy near the fire, nice and hot, until the time ofUJvinv broughtWetn, and sent up. ^ "* °f ““ 2. Stew a couple of handsome slices of seer fish in a Seer with truffle sauce. »°.oc^ brotfi made from bones and trim- a hunch of oo i imnS®> assisted by an onion, a carrot, a bunch, of parsley, a table-spoonful of preserved thvme and marjoram a minced anchovy, a dozen pepper coras a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a table-spoonful fulI^flVhyhrUCe; a table-sPoonful of vinegar, a table-spoon- fn thf fhaillS °j' Sfufceme' Let the fish slices cook slowly in this broth, and When done, drain and place them in a very hot dish, carefully covered up. Strain the broth in which they were cooked, thicken it, add a little stock if necessary and a little more wine ; throw into it a couple of table-spoons- ful of chopped truffles (previously heated in a little butter) nd let the sauce simmer for ten minutes to extract the flavoui of the truffles. When ready, pour it over the slices ana serve. hh'oil the fillets (cut from the undercut of a sirloin) Fillets Of beef with ovei'a bright fire, and serve them round anchovy cream. a chaplet of mashed potato, in the centre of which you may place a puree205 JIEjrU F0% JL OF Eias<r. of spinach, or a bunch of water-cress. For the sauce (which should go round in a boat) take six anchovies from the tin, wipe them dry, free them from the oil and pass them through the sieve; add the pulp to about a pint of good veloute (page 79) heat it up, and as you serve, enrich the sauce with a ladleful of good cieam. 4—Make your cassolettes as follows : peel two pounds of potatoes, cook them as usual; when Potato cases with done, stir into them the yolks of five ragout,Financierefashion. e-ggS>add a little grated nutmeg, a little salt, and stir them over* the fire for five minutes. Now pass them through the sieve : pat them to a paste, and flatten that out on your slab about one-and-half inch thick. Let it get cold: then with your cutter, cut it into cylinders (or little drums) two inches in diameter. Egg and bread-ciumb each cylinder, and fry these potato drums till they are a bright golden brown. Now carefully slice off the top of each drum (say) a quarter inch thick ; place the caps so obtained on one side, and scoop out the interior of your drums very care- fully. Fill up each cassolette thus formed, with a portion of ragout a la financiere, (q. v.) place the caps on the top of each, and a few minutes in the oven will bring them to perfection. This entree can, of course, be prepared early in the day, and heated up just when required. 5, Order your saddle some days beforehand and you will get a good one. Roast it, and Saddle of mutton with serve it with red currant jelly, potatoes, green peas. and green peas dressed as you may like best. Quenelles of partridge in jelly. 6.—Simply quenelles of partridge meat., truffe'es, set in aspic jelly, iced, and served with sauce tartare. 7.—“Beat up” (says the G. C.) “a quantity of white of egg into a froth with a little sugar. Egg snow. Have some milk previously sweetened in a sauce-pan on the fire, and when it boils, throw in your egg froth in separate table-spoonsful. A few seconds will IS206 J4EJUJ FOIl fi <P£H?Y OF EIGBF. cook each spoonful of froth on one side then turn u t ess s bafls Tn^6 Sf °f the custard- Sprinkle over the snow °f th°Se ** ^ 8. An iced pudding flavoured with pounded pistachio Pistachio cream ice. ^ Pa^6 green colour. Highly delicious. ° JIvlB^STTJ INTo. I"V. For a party of eight. Consomme de becassines. Darnes de seer a la Peg Woffington. Cotelettes de mouton en aspic sauce Tartare. Kramouskys aux huitres. Chapon a la Frangaise. Canards sauvages sauce bigarade. Petits pois au beurre. Gelee au marasquin. Boudin glace aux fraises. Green butter, Cheese, oat biscuit. Dessert. 1.—Prepare a bright clear consomme for six covers. Slightly roast six snipes ; let them get Clear ampe soup. cold, divide them into convenient pieces, mash them in a mortar and throw the whole, with the exception of the livers of the birds, into your stock pot; let it come to the boil skimming carefully, and then remain simmering all the afternoon: towards evening, strain the liquor from the bones, and set it to cool; pick from the remnants of the snipe sufficient meat to form a dozen tiny quenelles the size of an olive: pound this meat in a mortar with the saved livers, a pinch of salt, some chop- ped parsley, and a little thyme, with a dust of cayenne, or spiced pepper; stir in a very little red currant jelly and208 JIEJITJ FOIl £ <P£%TY OF EIGHT. minute: the cowsommt itselfhaving been meanwhileellri fled, and again heated almost to boilfng point 2-Divide a cut of seer fish into six nice slices about Seer with Peg Woffing. fal * lnch fcbiek; flatten them on a ton sauce- board, butter a pie dish, and Jay them tVwarv, -XU therein; pepper and salt them sprinkle ■spread a sheel^f TTd S"'Sley’ and a little s,lc‘ll°t' “d ' °f, butlered PaPer over them : bake for ten ininutes in a quick oven, and when done, arrauge the slices ove them1 For the P°ming ^ liqU°r from the pie-dish ovei tnem. for the sauce : a quarter of a pint of cream a ; :sp,00^ of waIfiut catsup, and half one of anchovy sauce , boil these together, and just before you remove the sauce-pan from the fire, stir in well a bit of butter the size of a walnut rolled in flour, with a thought of red pepper. 3. For this dish select the nicest choplets you can from Mutton cutlets in jelly f£ther a neck, or loin of mutton; trim with tartare sauce. them very neatly, lard them with fat ’ a- • t i bacon, and introduce some pieces of truffle judiciously here and there by making incisions with a sharp, pointed, root knife : stew these very tenderly in b+one®>flaPqand trimmings; take them out, and set them to get cold with a weight above them; when trnffl P ?Ce ,them \n a PIai» mould, garnish with slices of tiuffle, sliced cornichons, and white of egg; fill up the mould ^ri\aSP1C JG and serve wifch cold Plates, and * iartaie sauce, iced, in a sauce boat (a metal one if possible). This entree can be made early in the day, and is con- sequently so much off the cook’s hands as the dinner hour a™y®3, , Wl11 be found vastly better than the everlasting 'pate ae foie gras en aspic. 4.—The difficulty in this dish is the batter which should be most carefully considered.JAEJTU FOI{ JL <PJt^Y OF EIG-Htf. 209 Beat up the yolks only of three eggs, with a table-spoonful of brandy, one of olive oil, and three Oyster Kramouskys. or f()ur of coid. water: mix into this three table-spoonsful of flour and a salt spoonful of salt, beat this to a paste for ten minutes preparing a rather thicker batter than you would for ordinary fritters: at the time of using, stir in the whites of the two eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Wash your oysters (about a dozen good ones) early in the day/(parboil them if fresh ones, beard them,) and put them to marinade for two hours in the juice of three or four limes, a sliced onion, some whole pepper and a few cloves. Lift them out of this when wanted, cut them up, bind together with liaison of yolks of eggs and thick white sauce, and lay them on six slices of previ- ously boiled bacon; roll up your bacon fillets,and fix them into shape with a tiny skewer; dip them now into the batter, and lay them, ever so gently, in your frying basket, dip this into a seething bath of fat, and fry a golden brown. Serve prettily garnished with curly parsley. If your cook be hopelessly clumsy in handling Kramouskys—try putting your six rolled fillets on one silver skewer (like larks) dip that in batter, and fry;—this will require delicate helping, and each portion must be handed round. 4.—The capon in this receipt should be braised, with a pint of good stock round it, an onion wayap°n 111 tie French sliced, half a glass of sherry, and pep- per and salt to taste : a few slices of fat bacon should be pinned over the breast, and the larding needle may be used also. Braise gently till done. Lift the capon out of the pan, strain and reduce the gravy in which it was cooked, add a couple of table-spoonsful of minced truffle, and pour this over the bird before serving; sippets of dry fried bacon, and slices of lime may garnish the dish. 5.—Wild duck sauce :—Pare as thin as possible the rind of two oranges (sweet limes), cut them into thin shreds and boil them in water for five minutes ; melt a piece of butter in a sauce-pan, stir into it a table-spoonful of flour, and a Boast wild ducks witli Bigarade sauce.J4EJIU F01? Jl CPJkl&Y OF EIGHT. 210 the giUet:"/ tlCSr°pePp“ksSadaendWihh boils. Indl^eTa boat 6 b°‘led ** Sfc ti!1 ths — 6-Wash the contents of a tin of petite poie in cold Green peas in butter. water, by emptying the tin into your over them P.,t fia S ^aiiner pouring a jug of waterIvrEJlSTTJ 3KTo. "V- —_♦> For a party of eight. Consomme de poisson. Filets de pomfret a la poulette. Croquettes de canard a la Bordelaise. Cotelettes de mouton au creme de fromage. Chapon au chou-fleur. Topinambours a la Chetput. Gelee au cura9oa. Boudin glace. Fromage, hors d’oeuvres. Dessert. 1.—This is a clear soup flavoured with fish. A crab for instance answers the purpose admi- Ciear fish soup. rably, but any fish will do. Let us take the crab. Make ordinary clear gravy soup for the number you expect. One large crab or two small ones will suffice for eight basins. Boil the crab: drain it: pick out the flesh, saving that of the claws for garnishing. Pound the rest of the meat and shells in a mortar, put the whole of it into the gravy you have made with a little bag of basil, and boil gently for half an hour, strain through a fine sieve, or tamis cloth,—it should now be bright and clear,—and pour it into your soup tureen over some little quenelles made of the claw meat you saved. A table-SIS JtEJTU F0% <Pjli?qy 0F EIGHT. spoonful of Madeira, and the iuiee of holf o r the finishing touches of this soup. hme COnsfcltute 2-Divide one large, or two email pomfrets into fillets a, Pomfret fillets with neatly as you can, season them on pouiotte sauce. one side with finely minced (coolced) the mushrooms you usefor the^auce Roll trimruings of mg the seasoning within each fillet N fch«m up envelop- broth1 made Ci cupful vfnetr. lift ttf^ ^u^a^wR^^flour^d^bu^ter^ad^^^0 * t ?a,'efu11^3 rooms cut into quarters a littl’ ii f dozen button mush- as you take it off the file ‘ tn fe tPePPa *"!? Sait’ and eao-s Pmir tia- Uie’ stl* m fche strained yolks of two bl™ kept hot Tn The rUr 6tS- Whi0h have' of course, beingSde mcl™ whilst “>c sauce was win ' be~~adv i sable "the”'Wh TiZ 11 colorant, and serve the dish brown; but true "pouleul’ is necessary ’ a°h'eVe ‘he white bu«°n mushroom 3.—These are croquettes made of duck and are exceed- Duck croquettes with n*ce- Roast the bird lightly, let Bordeiaise sauce. lfc get cold, then cut off all the meat skin, bone liver, fa t a good dusting with black pepper and salt. Now fo! the^sauce .—Mince an onion, and one clove of garlic (a sine SteTa^rV tf the ?ince int° a ^e-spoonCof Selted buttei at the bottom of a small sauce-pan, lightly fry a pale mashed thr0'7 in a11 y°ur fragments of duck,Savina mashed the bones in a mortar, a breakfast-cupful of aravy a tLs cufen °f C trefc (°i:Bm'S^dyi{ possible) two torna- corns a ninl mid of a lime, a dozen pepper to cover P+h K °f SUgar,and salfc t0 taste : add water enough to covei the bones well, and let the contents of the sauce-SIS JtfEJVU FOB Jl OF EIG-HCH. pan simmer, skimming off the scum that nses. In an hour you will have a well flavoured broth in which the taste of the tomato is easily recognised. _ When quite satisfied with the broth, strain it off, let it cool, skim it, and thicken it plainly with flour and butter. . riace the sauce-pan in the bain marie pan, and let it keep hot there. In making the croquettes of the duck meat you saved, use some minced bacon, lean and fat in equal shares, one tea-spoonful to each croquette, the bird’s liver, any truffle or mushroom parings there may be to spare, and put one olive farcie whole in the centre of each: season the pounded meat with pepper and salt, don’t use any spice, but dry some sage leaves in the oven, and make a powdei of them, giving about half a salt-spoonful of the powder to each croquette. °Form the croquettes with egg, bread-crumb them in the usual way, and fry them a pale golden brown in abundance of fat, serve, with the Bordelaise sauce, piping hot, and a centre of petits pois verts, 4.—A nice dish of neck cutlets trimmed neatly and grilled over a very fast fire. Each cutlet Mutton cutlets with oucrht dipped into melted butter, or brushed over with salad oil before it is placed on the grid-iron. The sauce should be made thus:—Parboil two, or three, fair sized Bombay onions, cut them up roughly and put them into a sauce-pan with a ladleful of butter, a pinch of sugar, and pepper and salt to fancy; let them cook slowly so that they do not take colour, add a table-spoonful of boiled rice, or pearl barley, and a cup- ful of broth and let the simmering go on till the lumps of onion are quite soft; then add a heaped up table-spoonful of finely grated cheese, stir this in well for a minute or two, then lift it up, and work the mixture through the sieve as you would a puree. Heat it up gently in the bain marie pan, and at the last stir in a table-spoonful of rich cream. Serve the cutlets round a wall of mashed potato, and fill in the centre with French beans d la maiire d’hdtel. Let the sauce go round in a boat with the entree: it ought to be a thick creamy looking sauce of the consistency of tartare,214 MEJVU POJf jS op EIGHT. 5. Lard your capon roast him with the utmost care Capon With cauliflower, pasting with melted butter - let a carcass, and sew up the venf00^ be,.Put inside the stuffing; and let aP<Mirl nt’ H6 Pa!'tlcuIar with your accompany each plate Thp ,crisP ^ fned streaky bacon composed, a^dThe cauliflower^ “T? must be carefully out, that is to say not ruined , D(? Pofca^oes freshly turned your entrees. ’ ^ bein£ hawked about with 6-This excellent entremetI de legume is described at the Mould of Jerusalem you l XXI> Page 115,—As «w,hokeB’ Chetpat fa- y ba™.already used crime de from- h9lm • h,1S serve the mould (if fq v.Wpageaig75r)iSh °f t0ma‘° C0DSer'-eIS^BTsTXJ UNTo. VI. For a party of eight. Potage Brunoise. Seer a la Napolitain. Cotelettes de mouton en aspic a la ravigotte, Croustades de lapin a la reine. Entrecote de bceuf au creme d’anchois. Salpicon de gibier en caisses. Tomates au gratin. Beignets de peches. Boudin glace aux cerises. Prawn butter, Cheese straws, pulled bread. Dessert. 1.—This is a soup something like Julienne, but of a dis- tinct character on account of the man- Brunoise soup. ner ^he vegetables are pre- pared for it. Make consomme enough for your party. Cut some carrots, turnips and celery into dice : melt a piece of butter in a sauce-pan, add pepper, salt, and a tea-spoonful of powdered loaf-sugar. First put in the dice of carrots and toss them on the fire till they begin to brown, next the celery, and lastly, the turnips with a little chopped onion. Work them all together, and after a few minutes, add your consomme: set the sauce-pan by the side of the fire, and let it simmer; during this process the butter will be thrown up to the surface in the form of scum, skimJtEJVU FOJf Jl EJU^EY OF EIGHY. £16 this off veiy carefully and the soup will be ready to serve, tureen61 t SP00nfUl °f Madeira is enougl1 wine for the whole 2. This is a dish of fish au gratin. Divide a good cut Seer, Neopolitan fa- of se®r figb lnto slices, parboil them, and cut them into portions about large shion, „ • nu , et)ough for each guest. Boil some mac- caiom till tender: slice up some nice ripe tomatoes, have your bottle of Parmesan cheese by your side, and a plate upon whichyou should turn out the mushrooms only (not the giavy) of a tm of black Leicestershire mushrooms. Now butter a nice sized pie-dish (not too deep in the sides) and ar- range the maccaroni on the bottom of it: dust over the mac- carom a little of the Parmesan : now put a layer of the sliced tomatoes and arrange your portions of fish upon it with a piece of mushroom between each of them, and a slice of tomato in the centre of each : give a light surface dressing o Parmesan ; pour a little melted butter over it, and bake the dish for about a quarter of an hour. A little pepper and salt m i rnu -ken gently over each layer as you pack the dish. I here is so much moisture in the tomatoes, that no wine or gravy should be added. The oven should be quite hot. 3- This I gave in menu No. IV; choose some nice neck Mutton cutlets in jelly Ch°PS °/ ^ beSt mutt0Il, lard them with ravigotte sauce. ar*d introduce some pieces of truffle with the point of a sharp knife: m:ake a gravy of the trimmings, and stew the chops gently till tendei. Set them to get cold, and place a weight over them. When ready, pack them in a mould of aspic jelly, and serve with sauce ravigotte (page 74) for a change. 4. Take eight stale dinner rolls, tinned, of about two „ , £11 , inches in diameter: cut them so as to rabbit. leave a case a little more than an inch deep : scoop out every atom of crumb and trim the tops that you cut off neatly, so as to fit the top of the hollowed rolls. Boil a small rabbit, boil two sheeps’ tongues, grate some ham or lean bacon, boil a few sweet-breads if you can get them, have217 JAEJ7TJ FOIl fi FJIIITY OF EIGHT. ready some cocks’ combs, sliced mushrooms, a little grated lime peel, and a slice of truffle for the top of each croustade. Now reduce the broth the rabbit was boiled in, and make a rich white sauce; pick off all the meat from the rabbit, and pass it through the mincing machine and through the sieve,—the bones of course being thrown into Ihe broth to help your veloute. Now pack your croustades exactly like miniature vols au vent, with pounded rabbit, slices, or dice of tongue, the rabbit’s kidney, and the other ingredients, cut to fit the cases, moistening the whole with your creamy velouU: put a slice of truffle on the top of each, and cover it with the cap you cut to fit it. A few minutes in the oven will bring the croustades to perfection, when they should be quickly served. Send round dry toast with this dish. 5.—Trim a good joint of the ribs of beef by cutting the tender meat boldly in one long piece cW9creLbeef With a" from fche bones; the tough flap, can either go into the stock pot, or be set with the bones to produce a good gravy for the joint, the latter for choice. Shape the long piece of meat as best you can (it will look rather like “ roly-poly pudding”) and preserve all the fat you can find which should be fixed with skewers : lard it with fat bacon, and tie it to your spit with string. Let it be roasted over a clear fire. Serve this in slices, with a sauce (q. v. page 205) made with melted butter and flour, to which a judicious proportion of pounded anchovies, and lastly, a spoonful of good cream have been added. Potatoes, French beans,and salad should be sent round with the sauce. 6.—This is an economical dish, for you can use in it the „ . gravy of the mushrooms saved in No. 2, the liver of the rabbit which com- posed part of No. 4, and the gravy (skimmed and strained) that remained after cooking the chops for No. 3. Take four snipes and four pigeons, or three partridges and three pigeons, or any game you can get. Roast the birds, pick the meat from their breasts, take the bones, and scraps, and with them assisted by the gravy of No. 3 and the mushroom sauce 10218 JIEJIU FOIl Jk FJkll'lY OF EIGHTY. °f Nf\2, ?eltedi buttf1\ ?>°PPed °nion, some spice, pepper sweet heibs, and grated lime peel, make the very thickest and richest glaze you can: give it assistance with red currant jelly a glass of Madeira, and a little vinegar. Save the livers of the birds, and add that of the rabbit; pound these together, and mix with them some fat bacon, truffle shavings, and red pepper cut the meat into dice (all scraps, skm, etc., should go to help the gravy) and pack your well buttered paper cases with a mixture of glaze, meat and the liver paste—place in the oven till quite hot and then serve. 7. Empty a dozen large tomatoes preserving the cases Tomatoes an gratin. f-f aS. you can ; stuff them with ,,, , , , , the lolloping composition : to the pulp of the vegetable (q. v. page 175) add sufficient bread-crumb to thicken it somewhat, and beat up some ego-s in the pro- portion of one egg to two cases, mix the whofe thoroughly flavour with a couple of pounded anchovies, a tea-spoonful of minced ohves, and one of capers, stuff the cases, dust them over with grated Parmesan, and bake for ten minutes iust before they are wanted. J very careful with your preparation of the batter Peach fritters. for ^^ese fritters; cut the peaches . (American ones in tin are excellent! into neat pieces ; let them lie in a little maraschino, or any nice liqueur till wanted, then dip them in your batter, and fry them in abundance of boiling fat; drain them on blotting findy sifted6™6 ^ yvithPounded loaf sugar, Make a quarter of a pound of fresh butter from cream Green butter. y°u have set at home and put it , . ,, in ice: boil a handful of spinach till endei, and then pass it through the sieve: save the pulp carefully and give it a dust of pepper. Take two sardines from the tin, wipe them carefully to get rid of the oil, skin them and then pound them, bones and all, in a mortar, and pass them through the wire sieve. Mince very finely a lar<re bunch of curly parsley, so as to have at least a heaped up ab e-spoonful of it when minced; mince a dozen capers, andJ1EJITJ FOR Jl FJLRRLY OF EIGHT. 219 then mix the whole of the ingredients together with a wooden, butter bat, and shape it as you like, setting it again in ice till wanted. There are numerous varieties of “ green butter,” this recipe has, however, been proved a nice one.IVIEKTXJ 1ST o. VIZ. For a party of eight. Consomme au maccaroni. Filet de Pomfret aux fines herbes. Epigrammes de mouton aux dpinards. Quenelles de volaille au macedoine de legumes. Filet de boeuf k la Tartare. Chaud-froid de becassines. Choux-fleurs au gratin. Reine claudes & la creme. Boudin glaed a la Nesselrode Caviare, cheese, oat biscuit. Dessert. Clear soup with mac- caroni. 1. —Proceed tb make a bright clear consommd in the usual way: boil till tender in any weak stock some pieces of maccaroni: when done, drain them, let them get cold, and cut them into pieces half an inch long, add them to 37our consomme just before serving with a dessert-spoonful of sherry to which a few drops of chilli vinegar have been added, let a plate of grated Parmesan be handed round with the soup. 2. —Divide a good sized pomfret into six nice fillets:—put ^ the bones and trimmings with a sprig herbs. ot parsley and a pinch of salt into some water, and boil them at once; mean- while spread your fillets on a board, brush them over on oneJrfEJTU FOIl fi (Pjlll&Y OF EIG-HV. SSI side only with a beaten egg, now dust over them some finely minced parsley, a little cooked onion chopped fine, a very little grated lime peel, and a little white pepper: roll up your fillets and pin them into shape with a small skewer : now strain off your liquor from the bones and trimmings, and set your fillets in it to boil gently till done (they should take about 12, or 14 minutes) take them out, draw out the skewers, set them on a very hot dish, and cover them up. Now melt a lump of butter quickly in a sauce-pan, work a spoonful of flour into it: throw in a little salt and moisten, with as much of the fish broth as will make a nice white sauce to cover your fillets; add, as you take the sauce-pan off the fire, a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Pour it over your fillets and serve. 3.—Braise a breast of mutton in a stew-pan with some water, onion, two tomatoes, carrots, wifh spinach°f m u fc 0 n celery, whole pepper, salt, a clove or two, some parsley, and a tea-spoonful of dried thyme: when sufficiently done to enable the to remove the bones, draw the pan from the fire, take out the breast, and pick out the bones; then place it flat on a dish with a heavy weight upon it: strain the water and vegetables in which the meat was cooked, putting the vegetables aside, and setting the gravy to cool. These operations should be performed early in the day. When the breast has become thoroughly cold, remove the weight, and divide the meat into six nice collops. Brush them over with egg, and bread-crumb them with some very finely sifted stale bread-cumbs crisped in the oven. Let them stand for an hour, and repeat the process,— re-crumbing them again. Now fry them in boiling fat a nice golden brown, take them out, drain them dry, and arrange them round a tiny mould of spinach. For the sauce:—skim every atom of fat from the gravy you set to get cold, put a lump of butter in a sauce-pan, work a little flour into it when melted, gradually add your gravy, and the pulp of all the vegetables worked through a wire sieve ; stir well, and let the sauce thicken, add a tea-spoonful of222 _tfEJ7U FOI^ Ji (PjUt&Y OF EIG-HV. Chicken quenelles, with mixed vegetables out into dice, and heated up in nicely flavoured white sauce. sauce. sherry and a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, and pour this T?,, 70ur !'!Q° of W^ammes and serve. The sauce should be as thick as ordinary rich cream. A few dice of sliced cornichons (gherkins) may be mingled with the sauce or nunced mushrooms if you have them. 4.—Choose a nicepullet not quite full grown; slightly roast it; let it get cold; cut it up, saving all the meat from the breast, wings, back, and thighs and the liver: throw the skin, fragments, bones and giblets into a sauce-pan to make broth for the , 'Ll" n°W make a coffee cuPful of stiff paste with a little butter, flour, water and a pinch of salt; when ready, take ialf the quantity of butter that you have, chicken meat, and half the amount of paste that you have of butter : mince the chicken m the machine, and pound it in a mortar with the paste and butter; bind the mixture with three eggs,flavour it with a little spiced pepper, and form the quenelles between two table-spoons. For a dinner party, you would, no doubt, put a nice piece of truffle inside each quenelle. For the sauce, take equal portions of carrot, peas, turnip, French beans, and cucumber, all previously boiled ; cut them into dice and heat them up in a white sauce enriched with chicken broth flavoured with almond. In this case make your socle of savoury rice instead of the usual mashed potato: that is, boiled rice, flavoured with salt, a little spice, the pulp of a tomato, and a little finely grated cheese, stirred well with melted butter, and made firm by the addi- tion of the yolks of two or three eggs, according to the quantity required. This may be set in the silver dish, brushed with egg, bread-crumbed, and slightly browned in the oven; the quenelles carefully poached, should then be arranged round it, and the macedoine poured into the centre. **• Trim the undercut of a sirloin nicely, lard it with Fillet Of beef with tar. strip,3 °f bacon with your larding-needle, tare sauce. roast it over a nice brisk fire, and serve plainly sliced with potato chips : water- cress should be the garnish, and sauce tartare should be228 J6EJITJ FOIl £ (PJIIZ'Y OF EIG-H<F. handed round in a boat: potatoes in another way and a vegetable may accompany. 6.—The chaud froid will require one snipe a head :—take your six birds, and roast them over a wifwd0sa8nce.es drGSSed bright fire, let them get cold, remove the breasts, forming two fillets of the breast of each bird : Fill a border mould with aspic jelly and set it in the ice box. Arrange your fillets in the well in the centre, placing slices of truffle between each layer of fillets. Meanwhile make the richest sauce you can by boil- ing and simmering all the bones, remnants of meat, and the trails of the snipe in as much common stock as will cover them well; dried thyme, lime peel, a pinch of spice, a tomato, one onion sliced, and some bacon should accompany the bones; after you have simmered this for an hour, strain the liquor clear, and thicken it with butter and flour as previously described; flavour it with red currant jelly, Madeira, and lime juice, and pour it, cold, over the packed fillets—when it has settled well amongst and over them, let the whole remain as long as you can in ice, remove the mould from the jelly, and serve, with crisp dry toast “ in waiting.” 7. —Choose a nice cauliflower or two small ones, and boil Baked cauliflowers. them carefully • they must be under rather than over-done. Place them in a neat dish that will stand the fire, well buttered,—the flowers in the centre, and the tender leaves, and stalks neatly arranged round them,—give them a dust of white pepper and a dream of salt, then pour round, so that all the crevices may be filled, a coffee cupful of good white sauce. Let a layer of grated Parmesan repose on the surface, and bake the dish in a quick oven for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, lastly, by passing a red hot iron just over the top you can brown the surface of the cheese. 8. —Turn the greengages out into a glass dish, stir,a Greengages in cream. bqueur glass of maraschino into the . syiup, and set the dish in the ice-box to get nice and cold. Serve with either moulded, or whipped Cl 6cLUl«IVlEnSTXJ INTO. VTTT ♦- For a party of six. Consomme a la Royale. Pomfret a la maitre d’hotel. Filets de pigeon a la Bordelaise. Cotelettes de mouton a la Maintenon. Filet de boeuf aux haricots verts. Canapes de bdcassines. QEufs aux topinambours. Tourte de cerises. Boudin glacd aux confitures. Fromage, hors d’ceuvres. 4 Dessert. 1.—This is a bright clear soup into which pieces of custard are cunningly introduced. Pro- tabietT S°UP wtl1 CUStard ceed therefore to make consomme for six covers, and make your custard thus :—mix the yolks of four eggs with a little water and a pinch of salt, strain the mixture and divide it into three equal portions; colour one with cochineal, one with spinach greening, and leave the third plain : pour them into three little moulds previously buttered, and dip them into a pan of hot water: boil just long enough to set the custards: take them off the fire, and when cold, turn the moulds out on a napkin : cut them up into dice as gently as possible, and add them to the soup just before serving. The colouring ofJIFJIU FOIl fi (PJUtTY OF SIX. 225 the custard is obviously optional. I have found a slight deviation from this receipt very nice, viz.:—simply make a small omelette flavoured with parsley and shallot, a slight degree more firm than you have it for breakfast: let it get cold, and cut it up for the soup with the vegetable cutter into various pretty shapes. Grated Parmesan should be handed round. 2.—Divide your Pomfret, maitre d’hotel fashion. pomfret into nice fillets, egg them on one side, and shake over the egg some finely minced curled parsley only. Boil the fillets,—neatly rolled up and skewered, in gravy made from their own bones and trim- mings, and dish them on a hot dish as soon as they are done. Now melt an ounce of butter in a small sauce-pan, throw in a table-spoonful of chopped curled parsley, and finish the sauce, off the fire, with the yolk of an egg beaten up with the juice of a lime : pour over the fillets and serve. S.—Lightly roast six 37oung pigeons : slice the breasts of the birds off whole, and place the six BOTdeiaise°sauce!°n Wlth so obtained tn marinade in oil, vinegar, minced parsley, and shallot. Take the bones, trimmings, livers, &c., and put them into a sauce-pan with a good breakfast cupful of gravy; sim- mer this until you have extracted all the goodness from your pigeon scraps, and then strain it. Now chop up an onion, and one clove of garlic (a sine qua non) very small : stir a piece of butter the size of an hen’s egg at the bottom of a sauce-pan over the fire, and throw in your chopped onion, &c., let it slightly brown, and then add the gravy you previously made, with two or three tomatoes chopped into dice, pepper and salt to taste, and the juice of a lime, with one glass of claret. Bring this sauce to boiling point, let it simmer awhile, and then strain it. Replace it in the sauce-pan, thicken it with a little flour, and place your six fillets in it to gently heat up without coming to the boil; when quite hot, place the fillets in their dish, pouring the sauce round them and serve, with a crisply fried curl of bacon, between each of them.MEJTU FOIf fi (Pjq^q-Y OF 81X. 226 4.—Put six or eight nicely trimmed choplets of mutton Mutton cutlets & la ° a stew-pan with some scraps Maintenon. ot bacon, onion, carrot, dried herbs, n . , . PePPer> salt, and a pinch of grated &mren^lt^littl^00d Sravy-and gently stew hSPf t,u d°ne' Now lay them out on a large Yfe? .by “other with a weight upon it- when w'hiV ot° d- S?m finalIy iufc0 shaPe if necessary. ’ Mean- Z\ £\ ®t^ln °ravy ™ which they were stewed, remove all tat and set it on one side. Now mince an onion very fine and a few capers, with two or three truflles also. Fry the onions a golden brown, add the minced capers and truffles with pepper, salt and a spoonful of chopped parsley, moisten with a little of the gravy, and then put the mince away to get cold : cut some papers for your cutlets and oil them • now spread your cold thick mince over your cutlets liberally, loll them or rather fold them in their papers most carefully and broil them on the grid-iron sufficiently long to heat them thoroughlyor if preferred, they can be just as well heated in the oven,. Serve your cutlets in their papers, and Jet a rich sauce be handed round (in a boat) made of the remains of the gravy originally got from the cooking of the cutlets, flavoured with red currant jelly, anchovy vinegar and a spoonful of sherry, all judiciously applied—the sauce should be slightly thickened with flour. -B. Petit pois verts should accompany entree No. 1, and the “ Maintenon cutlets” maybe placed round a little well of mashed potatoes filled with celery puree. Laid the fillet carefully, and tie it up into a convenient with shaPe for roastiiig. Roast it over a W1 brisk fire, and when sufficiently done, serve with some minced anchovies and olives tossed in melted butter poured over it at the last mo- ment. 1 or the haricots verts:—Remember not to allow your cook to cut the beans into the vermicelli-like strips you see everywhere. All that is necessary is to peel off the external fibre which runs round the outside edge of the pod; leave the pods so peeled intact, and boil them with an onion for Fillet of French beans beefJAEJJU POJf <PJJtTY OF BIX. 227 their companion which you can remove when serving : a spoonful of melted butter, or, better still, of boiling cream is an improvement just before serving. 6. Slightly roast your snipes; fillet them as you did Baked fillets of snipe. the PJge°us, saving the trails; make the richest sauce you can of the bones, moistened with stock and helped up with vinegar, red currant jelly and a little sherry. Now prepare as many pieces ot fried bread as you have fillets, (vide pao-e 141) butter them and spread the trails over them; pepper and salt them; place a fillet of snipe upon each trail toast and pour your thick rich sauce (almost a glaze) over them • bake till quite hot, and let crisply fried bread-crumbs surround your toasts. Eggs with Jerusalem , thiS entre™t, turn to page artichokes. y4- 4 he eggs may be fcurds if you like, for which, consult page 172. 8. I need say very little concerning the cherry tart, Cherry tart. e*c®P!; that puff paste frosted over . with finely sifted loaf-sugar, is far nicer than the inevitable short-bread paste which custom has decreed for all fruit tarts made in Madras. Ramasamy is of opinion that short-bread paste is the only correct one for sweet things, and puff paste alone for savoury pies Drive this barbarous notion out of his head as soon as you can. Custards, or cold cream, should go round withIMJEJUKTTX UNTO- IJ251. For a party of six. Pot au feu. i ilets de pomfret sauce aux capres. Pigeon en aspic, sauce vavigotte. Cotelettes de mouton, sauce soubise. Poularde braisde a la jardiniere. Aubergines a PEspagnole. Beignets d’ abricots. Purde de fraises glacd. Cheese straws, green butter, dry biscuits. Dessert. 1.—I described this capital soup in Chapter VI; its chief features may be summed up as follows : Plain gravy soup. —take three or four pounds of shin, and ... , gravy beef; cutup the bone and tie the meat into a shape with string; place the meat first in the stew- pan, and arrange the bones round it; cover these with water, and proceed to heat the whole over the fire slowly, until finally boiling point is attained, skimming off, as it rises dur- ing this process,all scum and grease. Now add to the soup two xseiiary onions cut into quarters, two carrots sliced, one turnip sliced, one plant of small celery, leaves and all, a dozen pepper corns, a table-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of sugar, one of caramel and a tea-spoonful of dried sweet herbs, with aJIEJIU FOIl fi. Fjlll'FY OF SIX. 229 clove of garlic, in a bag,—add cold water to the extent of a breakfast cupful, and replace the pan on the fire. There should be, including the water first put in, about two and a half quarts of water, altogether. Let the soup boil gently till the vegetables are done, and then remove the pan from the extreme heat of the fire so that the contents of it may simmer very slowly for three hours. The pot au feu, is then, complete ; you have merely to strain it from the meat, and bones, and a clear well flavoured consomme will be the result. The vegetables may be cut into small dice, and added as you serve. I have repeated this recipe in a concise form, for it is a most valuable one. 2. —Fillet the pomfret, and make a fish gravy with the bones and trimmings, flavoured with per>'sauce^ fiUets ca' an onion and a little celery : boil your fillets, nicely rolled in little curls, in this gravy ; drain them, and dish them on a hot dish. For the sauce, make a sauce blanche with butter, and flour, moistened with the liquor from the fish ; when smooth, add a table-spoonful of finely minced capers, and the yolks of two eggs, well mixed with some melted butter, off the five, just as you serve. Pour the sauce over the fillets. A few drops of aromatic vinegar improve this sauce. 3. —Gently stew the pigeons in a rich espagnole gravy, divide them into halves, and pack raSttenLuce.3elly Wlth them, with the gravy thickened to a glaze, inside a border mould filled with aspic jelly. The sauce ravigotte is a change after perpetual tartar e: remember my description in Chapter XV, viz.:—a mayonnaise sauce with chopped capers, anchovies, olives, celery, and parsley added. 4.—There is nothing very remarkable to describe in this dish. Follow recipe No. IV, Menu No. Mutton cutlets with V, as far as the cooking of the cutlets eoubise sauce. is concerned. For the sauce, vide page 67. 20JAEJTTJ FOIl fi <PjSi?2T OF 8IX. 280 5. —Braise a fowl in gravy, and a little white wine, with Braised fowl with vc-ge- ? ^ellary onion, a carrot, a turnip, a *“«*»• handful of French beans, a head of n -, . , , , celery, a cucumber cut un and twn an sized tomatoes; when done, dish the fowF’strain the ? avv asaln W *r ',fSetables into dice ; add them to the Svel U^fowi “ “ Sa"Ce-p“ 9ttiddy. aDd P»” i‘ 6. —Parboil eight young brinjals, the size of a small hen’s «2£** “J over the surface of tliaet wn“ stand* th” a SilVer dift Wel1 lettered, or any dfeh t.nat will stand the oven, and bake for ten minutes • nmiv serve in^lm disht^"1 °' Wel1 .“f6 EsVa9™U sauce,Pand serve m the dish they were cooked in, placed on a napkin, rCIfla“.dei, of this menu is familiar to you all • be ca eful with the batter for the fritters, cut the aprfeots into halves, and soak them during the afternoon in noveau or anv good liqueur. The jcurie of strawberries is obvSy a afraw herry cream ice under a more ostentatious nameUVEZEISrTT UNTo. ^21. For a party of six. Potage a la reine. Pomfret a la Venitienne. Kramouskys aux grandes-crevettes. Boudins de pigeon aux olives. Gigot braise a la jardiniere. Aspic de perdreaux. Tourte d’abricots au creme. Boudin glacd aux confitures. Cream-cheese, dry toast, caviare. Dessert. 1—Prepare your stock as usual. Remove the flesh from a Puree of chicken. ?old roaft fowl> excluding all skin, and browned parts: add to the meat so obtained, half its bulk of bread-crumbs soaked in stock, and pound both together in a mortar, with twelve sweet, and thiee bitter almonds, and the hard boiled yolks of four eggs. Cast all the bones into as much stock as j7ou think you will require, and let them simmer for two or three hours. Pass your pounded fowl and crumbs through the sieve to get rid of lumps, gristle, &c., moistening it with a spoonful or so of stock to assist the operation. When near the dinner hour, strain off your stock from the bones, and place it to get cool, removing all the fat that may rise to the surface. Now take a sauce-pan and melt a pat of butterMEJVU FOI? jl (P^q-Y OF SIX. 232 Pomfrefc, fashion. Venetian at the bottom of it, stirring in a table-spoonful of flour; add a little stock, and work the paste so obtained without ceasing, gradually pouring in stock, and adding pounded fowl, until you have exhausted your supply. Let the puree now come to the boil; remove the sauce-pan from the fire, and as you pour it into the tureen, stir into it a wine-glassful of cream, (or that quantity of milk with which the yolk and e™ has been mixed, and strained,) and serve. 2.—Dress your fish in fillets, and bake them in a buttered dish with a slice of tomato laid upon each of them, and a little chopped par- sley and shallot, sprinkled over them. When done, arrange them upon a hot silver dish, and serve with the following green sauce Boil a little spinach, and when done, squeeze it through a piece of muslin: save the pulp you obtain for colouring. Now make a little melted butter, or veloute assisted by a little stock; throw into it some finely minced parsley, a very little shallot, some chopped capers, and gherkins, and colour the whole with the spinach greening. The white fish, the brilliant green sauce, and the scarlet slice of tomato with each portion,present a tasteful combination of colours, which might almost "tempt the dyino- anchoret to eat.” 3. —Be careful in in the mixing of your batter, and use a Prown kramouskys. Prodigal amount of frying medium : : for the salpicon use prawns, boiled, minced, and thickened in rich veloute sauce. Proceed as laid down for "oyster kramouskys,” page 209. 4. —Roast six pigeons early in the day; pick the meat '. ... from them, save the livers, and throw olives?0n °U nS W1 aH the bones into a small sauce-pan with some lean bacon, as much stock as you can spare (to the extent of half filling the sauce- pan) some whole pepper, spice, a sliced carrot, a bunch of parsley, and a clove of garlic, a muslin bag containing some mixed sweet herbs, and any scraps of meat you have lying idle. With this make a strong gravy, by simmering it slowly until almost half wasted : now strain the liquor from233 JAFJIJJ FOIl <PJi%2Y OF SIX. the various ingredients, and set it to get cool. Meanwhile, stone a couple of dozen French olives, and parboil them, skim the tat that may have risen on the top of your sauce, and then add the olives chopped into dice; let the sauce rest awhile. The meat of the pigeons should be thoroughly pounded, assisted by bread-crumb, to a paste, the livers thoroughly incorporated with it, and some fat bacon; when you have worked this quite smooth, pass it through the sieve, and then fill six little buttered moulds with it, here and there, slipping in a slice of truffle, and some pieces of mushroom; having your moulds thus packed, you can set them in the bain-marie, and steam them gently till they are done; turn them out, and serve with olive sauce pre- viously described, thickened, and brought to the boil at the last moment. Braised leg of mutton with vegetables. 5.—Remove the bone from a leg of mutton, and tie the meat into shape, set it in a stewing-pan with as much broth (made from the bone you cut out) as will half cover it: throw in sliced onions, vegetables of all kinds, peppers, a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, a little spice, &c., one glass of Madeira, and set the pan on the fire, with some live coals on the lid as well: let this stew till done, slowly, keeping it from absolutely boiling point, and when it is ready, strain oft the sauce in which it has been cooked, thicken it, chop the vegetables into small dice (there should be as good a variety as you can command) and serve the mutton garnished with vegetable dice, and rich brown gravy. b- Gently stew four partridges in stock with condi- Partridges in jelly. ,s_pices, sweet herbs, and a glass ot Madeira. When done, set the birds to get cold and strain the gravy in which they were done. Now take the fillets of the partridges, and pick all the other meat from the bones as well. The fillets should be put aside. Simmer skin, bones (pounded) and scraps in the gravy a^ain with a little red currant jelly and lime peel, strain, and reduce it to a glaze. Now pound the meat you picked from backs, thighs, with the livers, <fcc., and with your glaze make a richMEJTU *02? jS (PjOfO'Y OF SIX. £134 savoury paste of it. Prepare your aspic jelly flavoured with tarragon and pack your mould with the fillets of partridge between layers of the paste and slices of truffle. Ice this, and present it with sauce ravigotte (also iced) in a boat, and dry toast. “Aspic Jelly.” This requires attention; the common flavourless jelly, consolidated with isinglass, should be avoid- ed if possible. In order to turn out an aspic, fit to present at a dinner party, you must proceed in this way Put into a stew pan an ox-foot cut up, with a bacon bone, or a slice or two of ham or bacon, any scraps of raw meat, such as cutlet trimmings you may have, or, better far, a young fowl cut up as for fricassee, with a few mixed vegetables, &c., as for soup. Add a cup of cold water, cover th§>pan, set it on the fire, shaking it occasionally : when the pieces of meat begin to take colour, add a little more water, and in about lalf an hour, pour in enough water to cover the contents of the pan completely; put in a tea-spoonful of caramel, and then let the vessel simmer for three hours very gently, j When ready, strain the liquor off into a bowl, let it get cool, ; skim it carefully, add a table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, clarify it, (q. v. page 27) and strain it finally through a clean cloth, producing a clear, amber-coloured liquid, which will set of its own accord without isinglass, if put in the ice box. \iviEnsrxj nxrcx 3s:i- For a party of six. Potage a la creme d’orge. Beignets de seer a la Hollandaise. Chau-froid de volaille en aspic. Petits pates de lapin a la financiere. Filet de bceuf a la Napolitain. Sarcelles en caisses. Gelee aux fraises. Boudin glace a la Nesselrode. Cheese sandwiches, oat biscuits. Maitre d’hotel butter. Dessert. 1. —Boil half a pint of pearl barley in a quart of clear Pearl barley soup. tiU « reduCed to » PulP 5 PaSS it through a hair sieve, and add suffi- cient additional stock, very well flavoured, to bring the purte to the consistency of cream ; put it now in a sauce-pan on the fire till it comes to the boil, then stir into it off the fire the yolk of an egg thoroughly beaten up with a gill of milk (or cream if you can spare it) serve with dice of bread, dipped in stock, and crisped in the oven. 2. —Divide a cut of seer-fish into six nice collops about SeorMto.rtl.Hol. *"? in?h6,S ^lf “ “eh thick, landaise sauce. and an inch wide. Prepare some batter as followsBeat up together the236 JMejuj Foif fi (Pyuiq-y of six. yoik3 of two eggs (save the whites) with one table-spoonfuf of waT a”6 ^ Salad °^> an(i four or five table-spoonsful of water. Amalgamate with this three table-spoonsful of imported flour, and a pinch of salt. Beat the mixture by addincTw^6 ^ * fl°’ blng h t0 fche riShfc consistency by adding water, or flour, as the case may require When leady, add, at the last moment, the whites you saved, whip- ped to a froth : dip your collops into this, and drop them Hby °,le ln. a dee-P saute'-Pan> Abed with boiling fat; as soon as they turn a nice yellow brown, lift them out, drain far wSh Sbee ;° ^ 0U7ing paPer’ and serve them, crisp and ar3 > with sauce hollandaise in a boat. (q. v. jia^e 68 ) 3.—Roast a fair sized fowl, protecting the breast from . Chaud-froid Of fowl in burmnS by a buttered paper; when jelly. cold, carve the bird carefully, removing ,, the filets, and trimming each joint as neatly as you can ; remove the skin from these pieces and put them aside. Break up the carcass, and throw it, with all fragments of skin and bone, and the giblets of the fowl previously saved, into a sauce-pan, with as much stock as will cover the whole : add two onions, a clove of garlic, some cloves, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and simmer the contents o your pan as long as you can, finally adding a glass of sherry, and bringing the broth to the boil. Now strain, and remove all fat that may rise, and reduce the sauce a little; take it off the fire, and stir in the yolks of two e^gs beaten up with the juice of a lime. Let the sauce get cold, and then dip each piece you laid aside into it, richly coatino- every one ot them: now pack them in the centre of a border” mould filled with aspic jelly, and pour the rich sauce over them. set the mould in the ice box, and serve with iced sauce tartare. Slices of truffle may, of course, be introduced in the packing of your chaud-froid with marked effect. ^ This is an effective entrde:—line a number of patty pans with good paste, and fill each with a share of thoughtfully composed rabbit ragout a la financiere; (the . Eabbit patties, finan- ciers fashion.287 JAEJ7U FOIl fi FJlIiFY OF SIX. same that you would prepare for a vol aw vent, only a little more minced) and bake in a quick oven. 5. —Tie the fillet whole to your spit, and roast it over a brisk fire; dish it up upon a cradle of NepoUtan°manner.^1 the maccaroni, with a dust of Parmesan cheese, and pour some rich tomato puree round the maccaroni. 6. —Roast the teals, and proceed as you did to compose the chaud-froid, only add port or Ma- deira to your sauce, fill your buttered cases with pieces of the teal, and pour round, and over them your thick glaze. Bake for five or ten minutes, and serve. N. B.—Touching ragouts d la jinanciere, and a la reine: the former is brown, the latter white. For jinanciere you must therefore use Espagnole; for a la reine, bechamel. Oysters, chicken, rabbit, tongue, sweet-breads, liver, cocks- combs, truffles, mushrooms, and game, form the chief com- ponent parts of the plat. Select your ingredients; trim the pieces of meat into small collops, and gently stew them; that is, heat them up salmi fashion, in either the rich brown, or delicate white sauce I have named; the meat having been previously dressed, of course, requires no cooking. Bearing these general rules in mind, the ragouts will not be found very difficult.IvTIBIsTXJ 3XTo. ~7rrr for a dinner of four friends, (during the hot weather.) Purde de grandes-crevettes. Matelotte d’anguilles. Cotelettes de mouton au pure'e d’oseille. Galantine de chapon au salade. Haricots verts a la creme. Canapes de sardines. Boudin glacd. Cheese, etc. Dessert. 1.—Make a strong clear consomme, with shin and vege- Prawnpuree. tables as usual, as soon as you can: , , wheu ready, strain it into a bowl to be ready when wanted. Pick enough cold boiled prawns* to fill a half-pmt pot to the brim: pound these in a mortar with a good allowance of butter till you get them to a pulp : flavour this with a little spiced pepper to taste • now melt a lump of butter in a sauce-pan, and incorporate therewith a table-spoonful of flour; mix this with the prawn pulp. .Now take about the same quantity of bread-crumb soaked in stock (the consomme) that you have of prawn and add it to the prawn pulp also, off the fire, mixing the two together by degrees thoroughly, and gradually addincr the consomme till you find you have a soup a little less thick * than that you want eventually to get. You now set the j wJll'a!.* my uP-°"untry friends follow this recipe, using a tin of lobster, drained, and washed : their efforts will result in “ bisque de ho7nard.” I289 JrfEJTU FOIl (DrUJTER OF FOUR. sauce-pan on the fire, and stir vigorously till it boils, and thickens; take it off the fire then, and let it get cool, to enable you to remove any fat that may rise, after which the puree can be re-heated, and served with dice of fried bread. This soup is well worth the little trouble it requires : it is, of course, a relation of the bisque family. A spoonful of boiling cream, or milk in which the yolk of an egg has been whipped, may be added, but I think the puree is generally rich enough without that assistance. Skin a couple of eels, clean, parboil, and divide them Stewed eels. !nfco two for stewing. Put into your stew-pan two ounces of buttei, and an ounce and a half of flour; stir over the fire for five minutes,, and add half a pint of claret, and half a pint of stock, with a clove of garlic, an onion, six cloves, and a bag of sweet herbs: boil this for ten minutes, stirring it well with your wooden spoon; now throw in a pinch or salt, a tea-spoonful of spiced pepper, the rind of a lime, and place the pieces of eel in the midst. Simmer this for a half of an hour. Place the pieces of the fish in the i d}s“> strain the gravy rapidly, thicken it, re-heat it almost to the boiling point, add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and pour it round the fish 3. Choose a first rate neck of mutton, divide it into the Mutton cutlets with neatesfc cutlets you can, give them a sorrel sauce. dust of pepper and salt, and place them , enmarinade for the rest of the day. For the sauce you want one Bombay onion, two handsful of sorrel, one lettuce, and two table-spoonsful of butter. Take a liaht sauce-pan, melt the butter at the bottom of it: throw into it the onion very finely shredded, toss this about till it turns a pale brown, and then add the whole of the sorrel and the me ied hZ f-? ^ T ■ Sfcir the veSetables about in the melted butter till they begin to change colour, and then pour lnidtheHaflCe'pan.ab°,ufc half a Pint of gravy slightly thick- of whi? h fl°Ull U’ tlJ18 wel1’ and Put in a dessert-spoonful of blu fci SUga1’’ thr6T salfc'sP°onsful of salt, and a good dusting of black pepper. Let the vegetables boil for about five240 JtEJJU FOI? fi QIjrprEI? OF FOUIl minutes, then, if you find the sauce too thick and, or as cooks say, “ stodgy,” dilute it with a little more gravy till it assumes the consistency of a rich puree, ease the fire and let the sauce simmer for an hour. At the end of that time it will be ready to accompany your cutlets, which should be drained from their marinade, dipped in melted butter, and gulled over a bright clear fire. Prepare a circle of mashed potato,fill it with thesauce burning hot, and arrange the cutlets round the outside of the circle, with bunches of water- cress for garnish, A really tasty cold dish, garnished with blocks of Galantine of capon. bl’°kerl aSPic fche whole fresh from the ice box, and accompanied by a good salad is, to my mind, a worthy piece de resistance for a little dinner party at Madras in the month of May. A galantine too, is a dish that is well adapted for a Neilgherry picnic, so let us discuss the following recipe :—Choose a fine fowl, capon, or hen-turkey; purchase one of Crosse and Blackwell’s “picnic tongues” (in the round tins) and proceed as follows: Having cleaned the bird, and hav- ing carefully saved the liver, heart, and gizzard, lay it breast downwards on a board, and proceed to bone it (Rama- sanry does this generally very cleverly) you may sever the pinions, legs, and neck, but draw the skin carefully over the places, and sew them up, so that the outer skin may be as whole as possible. Cut off all the meat from the pinions and legs (removing the sinew) and flatten the carcass before you with a cutlet bat. Make a forcemeat as follows :—five ounces bread-crumb stale, five ounces minced fat bacon, the rind of a lime minced fine, a dessert-spoonful each of thyme and marjoram, spiced pepper, salt, a table- spoonful of minced parsley, all bound with three eggs : mix this as previously described and keep it by your side in a basin. Now turn out the “ picnic tongue,” straighten it, and cut a solid piece of the best meaty part to form the centre of your galantine: it should be nearty as long as the carcass of the fowl (leaving room for folding up) and nearly the full thickness of the tongue after the skin has been peeled off. Slice up the remainder of the tongue, separating fat slicesJAEJTU FOZt fi QIJ*J*E% OF F0U1?. ££1 from lean, and keep them on a dish handy; scraps may be minced fine, and mixed with the forcemeat. To make the foundation of your work as level as possible, you should trim nearly all the meat of the carcass of the fowl, with a very sharp knife, almost to the skin; the meat that is thus detached should be kept with that of the wings and legs. Lastly, mince together the liver, gizzard and heart, and “ spice-pepper” the mince well. First, spread a layer of the stuffing a quarter of an inch thick evenly over the.fowl, upon that a layer of your slices of tongue (spice pepper freely) upon that a layer of the meat you cut from the fowl (dust of salt) over that a second spread of forcemeat, then your minced liver, &c., and lastly, the block of tongue: fold over this the flattened carcass, disturbing the layers as little as possible, and sew the galantine up securely with fine twine. Envelop this in a clean cloth, and tie it up carefully with cross strings to preserve the oval shape of the galantine. Set this in a deep stew-pan, cover it well with weak stock in which a glass of Madeira, has been introduced, and simmer gently for three or four hours. When done, lift it out, drain it, take off the cloth, wrap it in a fresh dry one, and place it on a dish with a heavy weight above it: when quite cold, take out your galantine, scrape off any fat that may be attached to the skin, glaze it, and set it in the ice box, finally serving garnished with broken lumps of aspic jelly. A galantine to be correct should, of course, contain a goodly allowance of truffles : these should be introduced during the packing of the carcass, according to the artistic skill of the chef, in fairly large pieces; truffle trimmings should be minced fine and added to the forcemeat. 21IVlEHSTTU JSTo. ~X~TTT ♦ For a dinner of four friends. Potage k la Gladstone. Merlans aux fines herbes. Poulet a l’Americaine, • sauce aux huitres. Bognons au surprise. Beignets d’ananas. Cheese, &c. Dessert. 1.—This, I need scarcely say, is “oxtail soup!” Buy a shin and a half of beef, and make the Oxtail soup, (clear). best gravy you can as usual: take an oxtail, and when the shin consomme is ready early in the afternoon, (you should commence boiling the shin as soon as you can) separate the tail at the joints, and throw the pieces into your stock pot with two Bombay onions, two carrots, a stick of celery, and a muslin bag containing sweet herbs, six cloves, a dozen pepper corns, and a clove of garlic ; add a wine-glass of mushroom ketchup, and simmer the soup for a couple of hours, skimming it carefully. If wanted clear, all that is now needed is to strain and clarify the liquor, saving a few joints of the tail as a garnish, a table-spoonful of Madeira with a squeeze of a lime, and a pinch of sugar being added to finish with : but if youJAEJTU FOR fi QIJVJVEIl OF FOUIj\ 248 desire to serve a thick oxtail, go on in the following manner:—Strain the soup, saving all Oxtail soup, (thick.) the tail joints, and leave the soup in a bowl for a while. Pick all the meat from the tail, pound it in a mortar, pass the paste through the sieve, and then skim the fat off the bowl of soup. Take a roomy sauce-pan, melt a lump of butter at the bottom of it, stir in a table-spoonful of flour, and gradually add soup and paste till all has been expended, let the puvde come to the boil (by which time it will be thick enough) ; add a dessert- spoonful of red currant jelly, a dessert-spoonful of anchovy vinegar, and a glass of port, stir vigorously for a minute and serve. The common way of making this soup is simply to thicken the gravy, and to throw in the joints of the tail whole. I have tried the puree, and consider the soup is vastly improved by the pounded meat, the flavour of the oxtail being far stronger. 2.—Bake the whitings very gently, and serve them with Whitings with herbs sauce. green chilli (if liked) a sauce blanche, in which a bunch of parsley, minced fine a very little shallot, a little lime peel, and a little have been mixed. Fowl in tlie American manner. 3. This is a capital method of cooking a fowl, the pro- cess is simply that of steaming, so you will want your fish kettle, and a pan, hig enough to hold the fowl, with a close fitting lid. Truss the fowl: place a big Bombay onion inside the bird, with a couple of slices of bacon ; sew up the vent, pin a strip of bacon over the breast, and set the bird in the pan (without any water or gravy round it) carefully securing the lid with paste if necessary. Immerse the vessel containing the fowl in the fish kettle or any larger pan full of cold water, and set it to boil. Cook it slowly for upwards of an hour without removing the lid which should be scrupulously kept closed. In about an hour and a quarter (after the water came to the boil), you can take the fowl out, and place it at once on a hot dish well244 JtEJUJ FOIl fi QQTJTEIl OF POt/if. covered up. Now strain oft’ the gravy that you will find p'®en/!rfwn fro“ ^efowl, and save it for the “oyster sauce, which make in this way as fast as you can-—Mix an ounce of butter with a dessert-spoonful of flour at the bottom of a sauce-pan, add the fowl gravy, the liquor from a tin of oysters, and the beards of the oysters cut oft: (save the oysters themselves separately) throw in some pepper corns, the peel of a lime, salt to taste, and, as the mixture bods a table-spoonful of Harvey sauce: after it has come to the boil, strain the sauce carefully, add the oysters you saved heat it up again : take it off the fire : pour in a coffee- cupful of boiling cream (or milk in which the yolk of an ias been stirred, and heated up to the consistency of thin custard) and serve poured over the fowl. Whilst this sauce is being made, it would be wiser to leave the fowl in the vessel in which it was cooked, carefully covered up and kept in the hot-water bath. As soon as the sauce is ready, it can be dished up, upon a cradle of well boiled maccaroni. neys 4.—This dish is simply “Bombay onions stuffed with Onion stuffed with kid- % “°stcapital savoury entre- wiet if caiefully done. Take four large Bombay onions: have ready eight sheep’s kidneys, scalded, and skinned, but uncooked. Boil the onions till three parts done; take them out drain them ; slice off Hie top of each one (as you would treat an eg<H and caiefully lemove the inside, leaving a hollow big enough to hold two small kidneys cut into eight pieces; take two anchovies, pick out their spines and cut the fish into little squares : have some minced parsley handy, a lime, and some of the inside of the onion that you scooped out, minced and peppered ; put a lump of butter into the onion case first, then a little of the minced onion peppered, then your pieces of kidney, with little bits of anchovy here and theie, and crown the top again with minced onion, and a pat of butter: a drop or so of lime juice should be given during the packing, and an occasional dust of spiced pepper. Now place the cap on again, and when the four onions are stuffed, lay them in a buttered baking dish, and bake in aMEJTU F0% fi CPIJVJVEI? OF FOUll 245 slow oven for an hour. When done, pour a brown sauce (separately made) over them and serve in their own dish. 0.—When pine-apples are in season,* 'pray try these Pine-appiefritters. fritters; cut up the pine in slices a quarter of an inch thick : divide each slice into convenient lengths for frying (about two inches long, and one wide) : place the pieces in a soup plate ; pour a wine-glass of rum over them, and dust them well with sugar. Let them soak in this all the afternoon, turning them every now and then: mix, when the time is at hand for cooking them, a batter (which I will repeat) as follows : Beat up the yolks of three eggs with two table-spoonsful of rum (in this case) one table-spoonful of salad oil, and four of cold water. Mix with this three table-spoonsful of flour and a pinch of sugar. Work this to a smooth paste ; if too thick, add a little water, and lastly, add the whites of your three eggs whipped to a froth. Dip each slice of pine apple in this and fry (if possible) in a deep bath of boiling beef fat: as soon as they turn yellow, they are done; take them out, drain them on a sheet of blotting paper and serve, well dusted over with powdered loaf sugar. * Excellent fritters can be made,—following this receipt exactly—with American canned pine-apple slices.. IvIElNTXJ ISTo. 'XTA7- For a dinner of four friends. Consommd de perdreaux. Seer aux concombres. Kramouskys de volaille. Longe de mouton au purde a la soubise. Topinambours au gratin. Beignets soufflds. From age, hors d’ceuvres. Dessert. 1.—Buy two partridges in addition to your customary Clear partridge soup. S0UP nleafc : Pluck the birds> d,aw and cut them up, breaking all bones of any size with a mallet. Set the soup meat for consomme as usual, and when you have obtained as strong a stock as possible therefrom, strain it, and let it get cool; remove all fat that may rise to the surface, and when quite clear, pour it into a large sauce-pan, adding all the pieces of partridge, including the livers of the birds, &c.; set this on the fire°to come slowly to the boil, skimming it very carefully ; after it has boiled, slack off the fire, and let the contents of your sauce-pan simmer slowly for an hour or more. Now strain the soup from the bones, clarify (it should be a nice, bright clear consomme remember) and give it half a glass of Madeira, a pinch of sugar, and a few drops of chilli vinegar to finish with.JVfEJIU FOIl Jl QlJIjlEIl OF FOUIl. 24.7 2. —Any fish will do, divided into portions, or fillets. Boil the fish, and put it aside : boil befs6er fish with cucum' the cucumber, cut it into lengths about two inches long and one inch wide, prepare a nice white sauce with chicken bones for the stock, flavour it with almonds and a little spice, gently warm up the pieces of fish, and cucumber, together therein, and serve. On no account let the heating up reach boiling point. 3. —This dish is a variation of that given in Menu No. IV, page 209, being composed of a well Chicken kramouskys. devised salpicon or mince of chicken with tonafue, minced mushrooms, and truffles, bound with a thick sauce, and divided into portions which are wrapped up in slices of bacon (previously boiled) dipped in batter, and fried a crisp golden tint. It is a dish that needs neither sauce, nor vegetable; all you want with it is your roll and your glass of wine. 4. —Roast the loin to a turn, serve it with potatoes cooked in your favourite manner, red currant Loin of mutton with iePy and a puree of Bombay onions which should go round in a boat. For the puree, you must boil the onions till tender, mash them, and pass them through the sieve; work into the pulp that you then get, a coffee-cupful of cream, or milk enriched with the yolk of an egg, with a little gravy; flavour with a little pepper, salt, and a very little lime peel, heat it up as hot as possible, and serve. Its consistency ought to be that of thick custard ; no flour please. 5. —The Jerusalem artichoke is one of the most useful vegetables we get. I choose a very bakfdUSmchee^Cil0keS simple, yet tasty dish of them; its correct name is topinambours au gratin:—boil the artichokes till quite tender: then mash them with a silver fork, moistening them with cream, (or milk with the yolk of an egg) season with salt and pepper, place the artichoke in a buttered pie-dish, give the surface a layer of grated cheese, and bake till it takes colour. Let the vegetable rest upon its own merits for248 MEJfU PQi? QIJfJVEI? OF FOUF. con™ a Zlni Xnot"‘ °‘' “““*: the ■="»■» » of *“6^a <*? e-ra, tone of the •^SSr*'"’ ■ or tins dish consult page 154; serve the fritters ■„lrf JiU.ltedr ,with *“*«. «<» «end Sweet fritters. „ ougar, ana se lonnd a glass of liqueur with them.is/leuxttt into, zxlat-. ♦— For a dinner of four friends. Potage de lievre Merlans au sauce piquante Croquettes de volaille, aux points d’asperges. Fricandeau de boeuf. Ballotines de cailles. Epinards a la ‘ Wyvern’. Boudiu glace. Fromage, hors d’oeuvres. Dessert, cafe noir. 1.—Skin, clean, and thoroughly wash the hare, saving all the blood you can in a cup : cut it up into small pieces, and put them into a stew-pan with half pound of butter, a sliced onion, a muslin bag full of herbs, season with pepper and salt, and fry the meat over a brisk fire for five minutes. Make a roux (brown thickening) in another stew-pan, with a pat of butter, and a table-spoonful of flour: moisten this with a quart and a half of beef gravy, made as usual from the shin, and add four glasses of portwine, or claret. When well incorporated, pour this into the pan containing the pieces of hare, and let them stew in it very slowly till thoroughly done. Now drain ’off the liquor from the bones, &c., put the neatest pieces of the hare on one side for eventual serving250 JAEJIU FOI( fi WIJIJIEII OF FOUIl. with the sou^ and set them in the bain marie nan to keep warm. Next return the liquor in which thf v. * was cooked to the stew-pan, set it on the fire and let^t throw up all grease, &c., in the form of scum, which skim th 7‘ Now take a small sauce-pan, and mix therein the blood you saved, and some of the soup from the stew paiJ' ^°f,°ughly amaloamate these (in the bain marie nan) and add the mixture, slowly by spoonsful, to the gradJag !!"heating soup Let it come nearly to the boil, and then p °Ve-r fc^.e Pieces-of hare you preserved. This is Gouffe s receipt simplified. There are other ways of maldna are soup, especially that called potage a la puree de lievre which are always popular. The pur4e is of course LsTsted Tfportwine ^ c™ntieU* and plenty 2. Get whitings if you possibly can ; if not, cut a nice Fried whitings, sharp C 1S pomfret, 01' slices of sauce- seer- Dip these in batter (according to, 11 ,. . my old receipt) and fry them a crisD frrvenw^ tLVnn “ °f b°iling fat' them S seive with the following sauce in a boat:—Fry a Bombay buUer^tV™^'' °ne Cl°ve of SarIic als» minced, in buttei at the bottom of a sauce-pan; when turning brown put in a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, lime peel and 7Zr miXedAt0^efch-> a coffee-cupful of Vinegafand one of beef gravy. A tea-spoonful of red currant jelly may next be stirred in, and a table-spoonful of mushroom kefchup. J? the sauce bec°mes nicely flavoured, and the itrafn nff Van°US ]^reblenfcs aPPear to be extracted, stiain off the sauce. Now fry in butter for five minutes a couple of table-spoonsful of minced truffles, add the mince to the strained gravy, heat it up to concert pitch, and send it lound, with your fried fish in a boat. 3. Proceed with a nice sized chicken or small fowl as Chicken croquettes With th°Ug^ yoo were goin§ to make asparagus points. quenelles. Lightly roast it. Save all bones, skin and scraps, and make a251 MWU F°i{ £ of fouii. nice clear white gravy with them. When jtou have thoroughly pounded the meat, and mixed it well with paste, and egg, form it into six egg-shaped cutlets; intro- duce in the centre of each a piece of truffle the size of a shilling (the trimmings of the truffles should be chopped, and mixed with the pounded meat) now bread-crumb them and fry them a very light gold colour. Prepare a circle of mashed potato, place it neatly in the dish you intend for your entree, dispose the croquettes carefully round it and pour under them a rich white sauce, made with the chicken broth you drew from the scraps, slightly flavoured with almond, salt, and enriched with a goodly spoonful of cream. Between every croquette, you can introduce a crisply fried curl of bacon, and a slice of truffle may repose upon each of them. For the “asparagus points,” you must cut off the green ends of the stalks of a tin of asparagus. Heat them gently up in veloute; give them a few drops of anchovy vinegar, and pour them into the middle of your potato circle. 4.—A fricandeau ought, I believe, to be reserved for a Fricandeau of beef. ?llet °f V6f' °nl^ but 1 am nought to suggest your trying one with beef, thus Get two undercuts of the sirloin, if one be too small, trim them into a neat shape, and attach them together by two good skewers. Lard them freely with fat bacon. If you cannot lard, having no needle, you must introduce a slice of bacon into each fillet by making therein a longitudinal incision ; slip into it your slice of bacon, and pin the lips of the incised meat together with a small skewer. Your fricandeau is now ready foi the stew-pan, into which please put the trimmings of the meat, two ounces of carrot sliced, two ounces of onion sliced, a pinch of salt, a pinch of sugar, and a pinch of pepper: place your fillets upon the vegetables, and pour into the pan half a pint of good gravy; let this cook up to boiling point, and keep it on the fire till the broth has somewhat reduced and thickened: then add a pint more gravy, and let it simmer for an hour with the pan half covered. Now c ose your pan : put some live charcoal on the lid which2£i? JAEJTTJ FOJf QIJTJVEIl OF FOU%. lift every five minutes or so to admit of your bastin* the meat under it. Continue this until you have glazed the fricandeau, then take it out, and dish it on a very hot dish Quickly strain the gravy from the stew-pan, skim off any grease there may be, pour it over the meat, and serve Let a of sorrel, vide page 239, Menu No. XII, accompany the fricandeau, potatoes a l Amcricaine, and petit pois verts 5.—A quail for each guest, boned, stuffed with a part of a Quail Ballotines. small tin of foie gras, rolled up in a cloth, and boiled in broth. When done let them cool, take off their cloths, let them get cold and glaze them. Now set them in a mould, or dish, surrounded with aspic jelly, set that in ice, and serve—garnish with olives farcies and hand round iced tartare. 6- This is merely the usual pur6c of spinach, nicely Spinach with tomato J°rked «P with cream, and delicately and egg. nayoui ed, formed in a circular shape in its dish, with “ buttered-eggs,” tinted red by an admixture of tomato pulp, filling the centre Short-bread pastry in tablets accompanying.HVrZEUXrTT INTO. 2£VI. For a dinner of four friends. Potage a la puree de becassines. Crapes de poisson a la Woodstock. Cotelettes de mouton a la Milanaise, Dinde braisee, aux choux fleurs. Pain de foie gras. Asperges en branches. Boudin glace. Fromage, hors d’oeuvres. Dessert. 1.—Make a good strong stock for four basins (at least a quart Snipe puree. an<^ a with a shin of beef, and one _ good sized chicken cut up into frag- ments; flavour it highly with sweet herbs, and mixed vege- tables. Take four snipes, and lightly roast them: pick the whole of the meat from their breasts, and save it; mash the bones that remain, and put them in a bowl with the trails. W hen the stock is quite ready, strain it, return it to the pot’ and throw into it the bowlful of mashed snipe bones two glasses of port wine, a dessert-spoonful of red currant felly aud a table-spoonful of crystal-vinegar. Let the contents of the pot simmer slowly for an hour and half, skimming off any scum that may rise, and when you have thus extracted the essence of the snipe fragments, strain the liquor from the ones, and set it in a bowl to cool. Now pass the snipe meat 2225A JtEJ'TU FOI? fi QIJVJfEI? OF FOUIf. through the mincing machine, and pound it thoroughly to a paste,using a little of the soup to help that operation" When the jDounded meat is ready, skim any fat that may have risen on the surface of your soup, take a roomy sauce-pan plaTeTt on the fire, put a couple of ounces of butter intuit, stir into the butter a table-spoonful of flour, work it to L smooth paste, and then add, by degrees both soup and snipe paste keeping the spoon at work the whole time. When all is expended, let the purte reach the boil in order to thicken ofTS 7’ At the last> add a glass of port, a tea-spoonful of led currant jelly, and the juice of a good linm Now get your tureen ready, break a raw egg into a cup,' savin* the yolk carefully; mix a little of the soup with the yolk, and when well mixed, pass it through a perforated strainer into the tureen. Lift the sauce-pan from the fire ZL.T' uT • 8t?i"ed W Serve. Additional ichness would be obtained if you were to pour into the tuieenwith the soup, stirring as you did so, a coffee cupful of boiling cream. F ~1' ^K)0'sc an- ^ice fish, and about an equal amount of Fish rolled in pancakes. Prawns—the whole being sufficient for four portions. Boil the fish and prawns and when cold, make a nice salpicon or coaise mince of them, with some chopped mushrooms. Mix the mince in a sauce-pan with some rich veloute, and bind it with a couple of eggs, let it get cold again, and divide it into four nice portions, just as you would for “ kramouskys.” Now make a large pancake, or two small ones, and when not quite done, take them from the pan, spread them on a flat dish, and from them cut four pieces about four inches square Blace your salpicon portions in the centre of each and wrap them up neatly, set the folded pancakes on a well buttered flat silver dish, egg them, bread-crumb them, pour some melted butter over them, and bake until a nice golden brown: serve m the same dish, laid upon a napkin. The. pancakes should be nice and thin, and you should season your salpicon with “spiced pepper.” «Dutch sauce” (not 1 nouanaaisc jrou know) should accompany.JtfEJTU FOP Jk QIJIJIEIl OF FOUp. 255 3.—This is a dish of neck chops, nicely trimmed, which have been larded with bacon and set aisefashionUtlet8’ MUau' en marinade all day, and then bread- crumbed, secundum artem, with finely sifted crumbs, some minced parsley, a very little shallot, and a little grated cheese, all shaken together. When nicely crumbed with this mixture, the cutlets must be fried a golden brown in abundance of fat, and served round a hollow mould of “savoury rice” (given in Menu No. VII, page 222) with the following composition in the hollow in the centre:—“ Buttered eggs” coloured with tomato pulp, and mixed with two heaped up table-spoonsful of boiled maccaroni cut into dice. 4. Truss the bird nicely, lard its breast, stuff it with A hen turkey braised. veiX cavefully made turkey stuffing as explained in Chapter XVII, and place it in a deep stew-pan upon a bed of sliced bacon. Put a couple of .sheep’s trotters, cut into small pieces, round it, with a sliced Bombay onion, two carrots, some chopped sweet herbs, whole pepper corns, lime peel, and a clove of gailic. Pour into the pan a good pint of gravy made from the giblets, trimmings, and any scraps you may have, with a wineglassful of Madeira, and cook the bird gently with live coals on the stew-pan lid, as well as under the vessel, lor about three hours, brown the larding on the breast by passing a red hot iron close to it, and serve. Strain the giavy, thicken it, add some minced truffles, and send it lound in a boat. Potatoes and cauliflower accompanying. o. A small tin of Pate de foie gras will do for this little Mould of foie gras. party. Cut a thick slice of fat bacon f , into dice, and fry it with a seasoning of spiced pepper, some minced shallot, parsley, and marjo- ram ; when the bacon is. melted, add some finely minced lv.er (that of the foregoing turkey could be spared) fry tin the hot bacon, and then turn the contents of your saute pan into a bowl to cool. Now break up the pdtS pict out the truffles, and foie gras, and place then? on one side; pound the pate forcemeat, and the cooled liver256 JtfEJTU FOp fi QIJtJTEIl OF FOUR and bacon, together with the crumb of a roll, soaked in stock, say about a quarter the bulk of the meat, and pass this through the sieve : you have now three things the pounded force- meat and roll, the foie gras, and the truffles: choose a nice sized mould, butter it, and pack it with alternate layers of forcemeat, and foie gras, dotting the truffles in according to fancy:—when packed, steam the mould in your bain-marie pan for three-quarters of an hour; let it get cold, turn it out, glaze, and ice it. Serve with dry toast. 6. One remark only here :—Please do not spoil your Asparagus. asparagus by pouring an indifferent white sauce like thin “conjee” over it. All you have to do is this : gently warm the asparagus in its own tin in the bain-marie pan (immersed in a bath of hot water) drain it from its liquor as soon as it is hot (if you keep it longer it will be spoilt) and turn it carefully into a hot dish. Put a pat of fresh, or of the “ Denmark” tinned butter) on the top of it, give it a squeeze of a lime, and serve. A pat of maitre d’hotel, or anchovy butter, mav with advantage supply the place of plain butter. N.B.—For heaven's sake, no toast.UVEEHSrTT No. XVII. ♦ For a little home dinner. Potage au pauvre homme. Darne de seer en papillote. Cotelettes de mouton au macddoine de legumes. Drumstick seeds au gratin. Tartelettes d’amandes. Cheese-fingers, and fancy butter. Cafe noir. 1. —Put an ounce of butter into a sauce-pan with Poor man’s soup. ^ree onioas shredded finely, and fry them a pale golden colour; add half table-spoonful of flour, stir a few minutes, but do not let the roux turn brown, then add the usual allowance of beef consomme which you make daily. Stir till the soup boils, and add pepper and salt to taste. Cut up a couple of cold’ boiled potatoes into dice, throw them into the soup, and serve it, with crotitons of bread crisped in the oven. The yolk of an egg beaten up in a little milk may be passed through a strainer into the soup just as it goes to table. 2. —Cut a boiled carrot and one boiled onion into Slice Of seer in paper. tJlin slices> add some powdered dried thyme and marjoram and some chop- ped parsley; mix this up with three table-spoonsful of salad oil and cover your slice of seer with the mixture. Now258 MEJVU F0% jk LIHHLE HOME QIJVJVE%. SkfithLfiSlfarefSlym5r8heefc °f but^red paper and very carefilt Ld" h]0U1\, Wben done, remove the paper receive it lil? P-aCe tbe,shce uPon a dish made hot to cS of hrfff a/ife 0f bufcter> aHd a pinch °f flour, a ™ cooked hni?^- fclf V^etable9» **■> in which the slice pour it over’the fish"* ° °r f°Ur minufces’ strain’ and 3.—Take the eight cutlets (small chops) which you Mutton cutlets with can from a neck of mutton, trim mixed vegetables. these neatly,^ and grill them over a iv , ' isk, clear fire i when done arramxp of6wh^nhnd a*urcle, °f Vicely mashed Potato, in the centfe whilh T hf be P afd a SC^ce au mac^doine de legumes, carrot o h .explained ; some French beans, a rut intn turnip, and a piece of cucumber, previously boiled, “ m S™aIi dlce> and heated up in some well made opWv hl ly’ a ftW/.r®en Peas> and some pieces of boiled celery may be added if you can get them. T—If you summon up courage to try this homely dish, Baked drumstick seeds f “ °rder ifc aSain' Bu7 with cheese. enough young mormga pods to yield ,, • , seeds enough to fill a little pie-dish. Boil them, and scrape out the seeds, and the tender flesh inside the pods, into a basin: stir into this a table-spoonful of cream or a coffee-cupful of milk in which the yolks of two e^s have been well beaten; season with salt and pepper, and add a few drops of anchovy essence; pass this into a well buttered pie-dish, and grate over the surface a good layer of .Parmesan or any nice mild dry cheese. Bake for a quarter of an hour, and serve. 5.—Line four patty pans with nice pastry, and fill them Almoad cheese cakes. same preparation you would make for an ordinary baked almond cheese cake pudding—(a liqueur glass of maraschino, or noyeau, is a great improvement) bake for a quarter of an hour and serve.jvnuiNrxj into. -\7~ttt. ♦ For a little home dinner. Consomme de grandes crevettes. Filets de pomfret sauce au persil. Poularde a la Wyvern. Pommes de terre a la maitre d’hotel. Bandecai a la belle alliance. Beignets de pommes. Cheese, green butter, plain biscuit. Cafd noir. 1. —Prepare your ordinary beef consomme from your daily allowance of soup meat. Boil a dozen good sized prawns, save the liquor in which you have cooked them, reduce that a little, and throw into it the meat which you pick from the shells; add the beef consomme, some pepper corns, a dessert-spoonful of dried basil tied up in a muslin bag, a bunch of parsley, and some celery leaves : let this simmer gently, strain after three hours’ simmering, clarify it, and add half a glass of Madeira. 2. —Cook the fillets in milk as I have described (page 67): _ or, if you cannot spare the milk, trim pi!*s»rm,rGt 'VItl! your fillets, tie them in little knots, aQd boil them in a liquor made from the bones and trimmings of the fish they were cut from. Make a melted butter sauce diluted with the broth in which your fillets were boiled, and add to it a table-spoonful of fane y minced parsley, and a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar:260 JAEJTU FOF£ fi LITTLE ELOJJLE (PIJVJTEE. an onion should be boiled in the water with the fillets, and pressed into the sauce through the sieve. Prepare an ordinary fowl as if for roasting, cutting off Fowl in Wyvern’s way. a11 superfluous bones, the pinions, neck, and legs below the joint, which, with the heart, gizzard, and liver (the giblets), throw into as much water as will cover them : an onion sliced, and some whole peppers. Whilst this is producing a broth, lard your fowl with strips of fat bacon, and stuff the cavity of its car- cass with plain 'unashccl potatoes, and boiled onion—two- thirds of the former, to one of the latter. When your broth is ready, put it into a deep stew-pan, and place the fowl therein, with a carrot cut into slices, celery leaves, and stalks, pepper corns, a bunch of parsley, and some dried thyme in a muslin bag, and a glass of sherry. Braise the bird in this till done:—Meanwhile pound the liver you boiled in the broth, and get ready some tomato pulp (say) a tea-cupful. Lift out the fowl, and dish it upon some previously boiled maccaroni: strain off the gravy in which it was braised, thicken it, add the liver, and tomato pulp, give it a rapid boil up, and pour it over the fowl. The stuffing of the fowl helps to preserve its juiciness, and lends a nice flavour to it. 4^—Place some boiled maccaroni at the bottom of a small „ , .... well buttered pie-dish; dust over itsome ronUnd°toinatoes.maCCa' grated cheese; upon this place a layer of previously boiled bandecais, dust them with white pepper, and some grated cheese: on the top arrange a number of slices of tomato also dusted with cheese; pour a little milk in which the yolk of an egg has been beaten (or cream if you can allow it) in amongst your layers, not nearly to cover them though, just to moisten the bottom of the dish, and bake for ten or twelve minutes; serve with cold tartare or mayonnaise sauce in a boat. 5.—I have often spoken of the batter for fritters, so will Apple fritters. n°fc th® reciP6' Soak the aPPle slices in brandy or rum, and dish them with powdered loaf-sugar dusted over them.IvIBKTXJ INTo. SSLIIX- ♦ For a little home dinner. Potage a la Ciec\r. Pomfret au sauce piquante. Poifcrine de mouton a la Wyvern. Puree de pommes de terre. Aubergines au gratin. Blancmange a la vanille. Potted prawns, cheese. Dessert. Cafe noir. 1. —For the soup, read the receipt already given, (page 39.) 2. —Boil a little pomfret, and serve it with sauce piquante, (page 68.) 3.—Choose a nice breast of mutton, bone it, and put it en marinade all day in oil, vinegar, chop- Wyvern* °f mutt°n a la ped parsley and shallot. When wanted, take it up, dry it in a clean cloth. Par- boil, and when cold again, bread-crumb it for ordinary baking, and slip a good slice of boiled bacon under the flap, or outer strip of meat. Meanwhile make a little broth with the bones, and any scraps obtained from trimming the breast into shape, set it to cool, and skim off the fat. Boil sufficient raacearoni for two people, and when done, drain off the Carrot soup. Pomfret & sharp sauce.S6S MEJTU EOJf fi LIQ'ELE HOME Q^EIf. water, and leave the maccarnni in n.« t, . =l;r“r,,i“,,!:rr. :S”5? little water; stew gently till donp- fnm^i ’ an<^ a very hair-sieve drain off Hip wot °,V6' tuin them out upon a with a litS^saH an7d0Ublacakepaepn^r ?„7LC'th ^ thoroughly hot after it has boiled up^ P “ SaUCe 4“ tzz ui 7zs and pour your hot tomato purie over the whole. *’ d 4. Mash the potatoes thoroughly, and work them Mashed potatoes. *11 on©“ a wire sieve to get them smooth add a little milk, as much hnffpr qg you can spare, and a little salt: form with th? wooden snoon and brown the outside in the oven. Don’t let your cook waste an^egg in endeavouring to glaze the outside of the mould ! o.—Now this is well worthy of a trial:—Boil a couple of Brinjals aii gratin. ^1(je onnjals till tender, cut them in „ •, , halves, and scoop out the inside with a silver spoon and put it into a bowl: butter the now enTptv eases, 01 pods stir into the inside part that you scooped out a good spoonful of cream, and season with white pepper sa t and few drops of anchovy sauce. Mix thoroughly'‘and then lefill your cases. Shake over the surface a layer of orated the bottle. “any dry mild cheese that will f, ate. .Bake for seven or eight minutes, and serve. Under the more ostentatious name of “ Les aubergines an gratin ” 3 ui lowly dish might find favour even at the dainty meal of an epicure. J G.—You all know how to make this as well if not better Blancmange with vanilla. I do. Only see that the milk is j . iresh, not charmingly smoked, vou know, and don t over-do the flavouring O *J6EJUJ FOI[ fi LIEELE HOME (DIMMER- 288 7.—Potted prawns, home-made, Madras, ought to be t, ,, , oftener seen than they are. Whether eaten with cheese, spread on toast, or at office in the form of a sandwich, this preparation is most acceptable. Select some nice sized prawns, boil them, pick out very carefully all the grit, and that black line which runs straight down the back and underneath every prawn: wash them afterwards in cold water, and pour a lot of water over them as they lie on the top of your sieve : when satis- fied that you have thoroughly cleaned them, dry them, and toss them in a littld melted butter in a frying pan until they have absorbed the butter; next pass them through the mincing machine ; pound them thoroughly in the mortar, and lastly press them through the wire sieve. Season the paste so obtained with salt, white and red pepper, a few drops of anchovy sauce, a little pounded mixed spice, and work the whole together with some nice freshly made butter till thoroughly incorporated : set it in an earthen- ware jar, and pour a spoonful of melted butter over the surface. N. B.—Here is a wrinkle worth noting:—If you want to „ . , send round at dessert a dish that is brandy.ne8 1 n c erry generally speaking popular, buy a glass jar of the best French plums, (prunes) and a bottle of good cherry brandy, take out a few plums, and pour as much cherry brandy into the jar as the plums will admit: the next day you can add more, for the plums will absorb the brand)7; and so on for a day or two. Finally cork it down for a fortnight or so, then serve at dessert. Never let the jar be empty, but refill it as the plums are eaten.ivrEisrxj zsto. BOUp. For a little home dinner. Potage a la Palestine. Croustades de grandes crevettes. Perdreaux a la soubise. Petits pois au lard. CEufs a la creme. Dessert. '^is a S0UP which is to those who are fond of Jerusalem artichoke the flav°u,1; °[.the Jeiusalem artichoke, an especially favorite one. I may com- „p , .. mence by pointing out that the word Palestine is a misnomer : it has been applied to the soup no doubt owing to some connection being desired with the Jerusalem artichoke. But as the term “ Jerusalem” is only an Anglicised corruption of the Italian girasole (artichoke! there is really no analogy between the soup and the Holv Eand. I here are two methods of composing this puree to wit au maigre (with milk) and au gras (with stock) • I take the' latter as the commoner form. Having washed, peeled, and boiled a nice dish of artichokes, pass them through the sieve; save the pulp so obtained, until your daily allo°wance of soup meat has yielded sufficient nice clear stock for the puree Now proceed to amalgamate the two in the proper way, by melting a couple of ounces of butter at the bottom ot a sauce-pan first, incorporating therewith a dessert- spoonful of flour, and after that has been done, stock, andJIEJTU FOIl fi LIttLE HOJIE (DIJIJIEIl. 265 pulp of artichoke by degrees until you have used all you have. The spoon must be kept going all the while, and when the puree comes to the boil, it will be ready to serve. On its way to the table, like all purees, it may be enriched by a table-spoonful of cream, or a little fresh milk into which the yolk of an egg has been stirred, but the addi- tion is not essential. An old fowl makes a good stock for this soup, if assisted by a slice or two, or a bone, of bacon, or ham. Fried sippets of bread should be handed round with it. Let those who rejoice in a dairy try the recipe au maigre thus :—Take as much milk as you want soup, and boil in it twenty pepper corns, some mace, cloves, nutmeg, parsley, and a small onion. When thoroughly flavoured, strain the milk, mingle the pulp of the artichoke with it, as described for stock, and finish it off: in the same manner: the cream must be added in this case. 2.—Choose two or three small dinner rolls which have Prawn croustades. been baked in tins> and will stand up- right. Scoop outall the crumb, and fry the cases so obtained a golden yellow colour in melted butter. Drain them. Now pound enough prawn meat to fill them,' with melted butter, a little spice, pepper and salt; fill your cases, shake a little bread-crumb over the surface of each, place them on a buttered baking tin, and heat them for five minutes in the oven, serve as soon as the tops take colour. 3- This is a capital dish for Darby when it pleases -p , .L, to dine cosily with his Joan, sauce.n geswi sou 180 Prepare the partridges as for roasting: fill them with some chopped Bombay onion (which has been boiled in milk) seasoned with spiced pepper, salt, and a little chopped lime peel. Make a broth with the giblets of the birds, any scraps you may have, a slice o bacon, an onion cut into quarters, a few pepper corns, and a seasoning of salt and pepper: when you have got a broth to your mind, simmer the partridges therein until prefectly tender When done, (they will take three-quarters of an hour) take them out, and drain them, replacing them in the hot pan in which they were done, with the cover on. Now strain the 23266 JtfEJVU FOi? Jl LIEELE HOME QIJT^EIi. liquoi in which the birds have been cooked, and with it make a rich soubise sauce as follows Boil four large Bombay onions till tender, drain them, chop them up very fine (in this instance, I would not pass them through the sieve) and pioceed with melted butter, and the stock aforesaid, to make a rich puree; when boiling hot, dish the birds, pour the omon jmrte over them, and serve, garnished with curls of tried bacon. The onions should, of course, be prepared before- hand to prevent delay : the puree ought not to occupy more than ten minutes in preparation. Peas with bacon. 4~F or this nice «ntremet de legume, consult page 107. 5- Butter a little pie dish well, strew a good layer of Eggs with cream. mild Srated, cheese at the bottom of it, pour over the cheese a coffee-cupful of cream, break four fresh eggs very carefully, and pass them into the cream without breaking them: dust a light layer of cheese over the surface, bake for about seven minutes (till the surface lightly colours) and serve: the eggs ought not to be done hard, the dish is not a pudding, but eggs, just set, in a creamy sauce with a little cheese flavouring.nVTEKTXJ KTo. ♦ For a little home dinner for the hot weather. Purde de rognons. Ecrevisse de mer au gratin. Biff-tek a la jardiniere. Pommes de terre a la duchesse. Beignets d’aubergines. Creme de vanille glace. Dessert. 1.—Take your daily allowance of soup meat as usual and make a strong consomme with it. Buy Kidney puree. six mutton kidneys and treat them as follows:—Wash them, dry them, slit them in halves, and plunge them immediately into boiling water well salted; let them remain in this bath for one minute only, take them out, and dry them in a napkin. This is an infallible recipe for the removal of that peculiar taste which many people dislike in kidneys; it should be followed always, no matter how you intend to cook them. Well, having thus blanched the kidneys, proceed to boil them gently with some dried thj’me, marjo- ram, and a bag containing spice, &c., till they are very tender. Take them out, and pound them in the mortar, with one well washed anchovy: when sufficiently pounded, pass the paste through a wire sieve to get rid of fibre, gristle, &c. When ready, place the consomme in a bowl handy, and keep the kidney paste ready in a soup plate. Take a roomy sauce-pan, melt a pat of butter at the bottom of it over the fire, stir in a table-spoonful of flour; when nice268 JdEJTU F01? fi LI6E6LLB HOJvLE QIJVJJEI?, fyc. and creamy, add a cupful of consomme, stirring via-orouslv and continue to add consommi and kidney paste by decrrees working them well together, till you have used them up’ now let the purte come to the boil; add a glass of port a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, and a tea-spoonful of <mod vinegar, stir well for a minute over the fire, and serve with croutons of fried bread. Like all purges, a coffee cupful of boiling cream or a coffee cupful of milk in which the yolk of an &&& has been stirred, may be added to this soup off the fire for additional richness. This puree will be found so like a game soup that many will doubt its having any connection with kidneys. In hot trying weather, a rich sustaining soup of this kind is very acceptable. 2- Choose a nice crab, have it boiled, cleaned, and picked : Baked crab. place the meat in a soup plate, and ,„ . £^ve ^ a dust of black pepper. Boil till tender, sufficient maccaroni to line the bottom of a small pie-dish, and grate a tea-cupful of mild cheese. Now rub the bottom of the pie-dish with butter, place the macca- nmi thereon,and pour some melted butter over the maccaroni. bhake a dust of grated cheese over its surface. Next place the crab meat, well worked with melted butter, over the maccaroni, and, as you arrange it, dust it with spiced pepper. Over the crab, dredge a nice dressing of the grated j o e eighth of an inch deep, and pour a little melted butter over the surface. Bake till the top takes colour, and serve. No sauce is necessaiy with this, but if you like, you can send round a sauce piquante, or any plain sharp relish of that class. Vegetables are sometimes scarce at Madras, and our Beefsteak stewed with variety for this dish somewhat meagre; vegetables. but we can always get delicious Bom- bay onions, fair French beans, and carrots. Turnips seem too strong late in the season, so I would not advise your using them. Choose a nice steak, iy it, to begin with till it takes a nice brown colour on both sides, then put it into your stew-pan, with half a pint ofMEfTTJ FO% £ LITTLE HOME QIfTJTEI[, tyo. 269 water, (or broth) one Bombay onion in quarters, a good handful of French beans, a plant of celery and two carrots sliced; a table-spoonful of walnut ketchup, a salt-spoonful of sugar, pepper, and salt. Cover the pan, and stew the steak ever so gently till the meat parts easily when tested by the fork. Then lift it out, strain the gravy, place the steak on a hot silver dish, arrange the vegetables cut up into very small dice tastefully over it, thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour, add a dessert-spoonful of Madeira, and pour it boiling hot over the steak. 4-—With the above, try your potatoes in this way :— Potato duchesses. mash them up with a little good milk, and the yolks of two eggs; add pepper, salt, some grated nutmeg, and some parsley, or celery leaves chopped fine (a few marjoram leaves are an improvement.) Roll the mixture into balls the size of a pippin, brush them over with a beaten egg, set them on a buttered tin, and bake for a few minutes till a golden yellow colour.* They look pretty, and taste nice. •5- This is the American method of serving egg-plant, and Brinjal fritters. j? a, ™ry g.00.d dish for a change. Par- boil the bnnjals in salt and water, let them get cold, and slice them in longitudinal pieces of a convenient size and thickness for fritters; two inches long, and a quarter of an inch thick. Prepare the batter I have previously described, dipping the pieces of brinjal in it, and frying them a crisp golden brown in abundance of fat. Drain them quite dry, dust a little salt over them,and serve with Dutch sauce (q. v. page 72). 6. This is a simple recipe for a delicious iced pudding, Vanilla custard iced. nofc exPe°sive. Mix the yolks of three . . _ eggs well with a pint of fresh milk, strain it, sweeten it to taste, flavour it with vanilla, and ice it in a small mould. It turns out rich and creamy, not a bit like the milk-and-water ices one so often mourns over. * They may also be formed somewhat smaller, the size of racciuet balls and fried a golden brown in melted butter. racquet Dalis, ♦3VEE3NTT1J IsTo. XXII. For a little home dinner for the hot weather. Consomme de laitue. Pomfrefc a la Normande. Filet de bceuf en aspic. Courge a la moelle au gratin. Pain de groseilles. Fromage, hors d’oeuvres. Dessert. 1.—Make a clear consomme as usual, and treat the lettuce Clearsoup with lettuce. in thls wayand wash one large, or two small cabbage lettuces, dip them into boiling water for a few minutes, take them out, cut them into quarters : tie them together again : butter a stew- pan, place a couple of slices of bacon at the bottom of the pan, lay the lettuces on them, and cover them with stock: add two cloves, an onion, a tea-spoonful of sugar, and one of salt, and a tea-spoonful of dried herbs. Simmer the lettuces until done, take them out, drain them, and when diy, cut them into shreds with a dessert knife: put the shredded pieces at the bottom of your tureen, and pour the consomme boiling hot over them. Serve. One average lettuce will be found enough for four basins. The broth in which it is cooked can be strained, and added to the soup: see, however, that it is clear.JAEJTTJ F01? ji LIEHLE HOME QlJTJVEIl, #c- 271 2.—Clean and trim a fine pomfret; detach the flesh from the bone with a sharp knife : take the niMd^manner.1110 Nor’ ^wo sides so obtained, and season them on their respective inner sides (which were near the bone) with pepper, salt, a little finely chopped parsley, and some minced mushroom, lay them together again : the fish resuming its former appearauce. Now butter a flat silver dish, or one that will stand the fire, strew over the butter some minced boiled onion, place the fish thereon, moisten it with a little chablis, or light white wine of that class, and bake it in the oven. Whilst baking, make a good veloute, in which you should pour the liquor of a tin of oysters, and use the broth made from the bones and trimmings of the pomfret. When the fish is nearly done, take it out of the oven ; pour the liquor from its dish into your veloute: garnish the fish with the oysters of the tin previ- ously mentioned, and some black Leicestershire mushrooms, over all pour your veloute,— which should be nice and thick, -set the dish in the oven again for five minutes, and serve with croutons of bread, buttered on each side, and coloured a pale brown in the oven. This will be found an excellent dish far from difficult: veloute remember, is merely a rich creamy white sauce. o. Tie a whole fillet of beef into a compact shape and t;,.,, , , , „. ... ^ai‘d it with plenty of fat bacon : braise (cold)6 ° 386 m ]e y’ it ’n stock, and vegetables : when done, fake it out, remove the string, and place the meat in an oblong shape with a heavy weight upon it; when thoroughly cold, and set, trim it all round with a sharp knife, glaze it with its own gravy reduced, and set it in aspic wru 6 *Ce ^°X’ A P^aiQ oblong mould should be selected. When you turn it out, garnish with hard-boiled eggs, and paisley, and serve with the best salad you can devise, and a good mayonnaise sauce.* . frilis recipe may be followed with a home cured ox tongue : boil tho tongue, of course, you cannot braise it.J?7£ JIEJIU FOIl Jk LIE-TLE HOME QIJIJIEF, f0. 4. Slice up a cold boiled (not over-boiled) vegetable rr f ,, marrow. Butter the bottom of a pie- gratin. uisn, place a layer of slices thereon, , giate a good lot of mild cheese over them, place another layer of slices above the first and strew giated cheese over that also. Now melt some butter in a small sauce-pan, and add a little gravy to it, together with some finely powdered cheese, when you have enough to hal. cover your layers of marrow, pour the liquid round them, and bake for ten minntes or so in a fast oven. Salt and pepper should be dusted over each layer, before the cheese gratings are added. 5. This is a simple yet effective sweet entremet suggested Mould Of gooseberries. to me ,a Madras Gouffd Turn out a bottle of gooseberries, sweeten them to taste in their own syrup. Melt an ounce of gelatine in water, and stir this into the basin containing the fruit; now place this in a mould, and set it to get° firm in the ice box. The best creamy custards (also set in the ice box) should go round in glasses; this is coolino-, and inexpensive. You may perhaps nibble a cheese biscuit, and take an atom of fancy butter with it to finish with, but fancy that this little menu will be found quite as much as people want with the thermometer at a “ level” 90° all the day long. IZVEIEIIINrTT KTo. For a little home dinner. Creme de viz aux haricots verts. Ragout de pomfret (or any fish.) Caneton aux petits pois. Pommes de terre nouvelles.* Podolong-cai au jus. Maccaroni au gratin. 1. —Make your gravy for soup as usual. Boil a tea-cup- ful of rice till tender, work it through Rice puree with French £pe gjeve . amalgamate the pulp so obtained with the soup gravy, by butter and flour as described for 'purees. Cut into dice a handful of boiled French beans, stir the dice into the soup as it thickens, and add a coffee cupful of milk, with which the yolk of an egg has been mixed, off the fire, just before serv- ing. A few pounded sweet almonds may be mixed with the rice pulp if the flavour is liked. 2. —This is a very useful recipe, practicable with all fish, _ L L which I specially commend to notice. Kagout of p°mfrefc. . Take a g,d bof,ed pomfret (in Ms case) remove the skin and cut the fish into fillets of a nice length, dust them with pepper and salt, and put them aside. Slice finely half a Bombay onion, and fry the slices, till just colouring, in an ounce of butter, now add a pint of milk and * “ Mock new potatoes.”274 MEjm TOJ? fi lihhle home qimmeii. water, two-thirds milk to one-third water ill a u u trimmings, a few pepner porno ir, , ,a the fish bonesand. flavouring your white <jnn^a • v ^ 10 onus ^ere hes in SO do not5omit anything I have mentioned! W£Um ^ ^ : 3.—“ First catch your duckling” eh ? well I know they Duckling and green ^ , d to gefc Just DOW, but let those peas- ™ h,ave them try one before the should bo scarcely stZ^ThanTfstlolf'H young enough. Roast, do“ not stuff duckhnl 1st the' ba t,ng be frequent, and froth the breast up nicely to finish dressing which havrbeen gmn in Chl|tearbXXl' CCeiptS f°‘' ’Wtefigs r !nfrzk“ * - 4. This vegetable, known as the “snake vegetable,” cut p , , .. into convenient lengths, boiled, drained Podoiong-cai m gravy, its seeds removed, and the pieces finally worth trying when ifbeh:ir‘hu'bouf fitof-ted^ 5. —Many fail to achieve this homely dish as nicely as they could wish. The following is a simple recipe Take two ounces of maccaroni, boil, and drain it well; put Maccaroni with cheese m.fc° a sauce-pan one ounce of butter, baked- mix ^ well with one table-spoonful of of draw foe j r d<,,ur’ moisten with four table-spoonsful Q a } (saved from the soup gravy) and a coffee cupful ofJ6EJTU .FOi? fi LITTLE HOJAE (DIJ7J7EII. 275 cream, or milk enriched with the yolk of an egg; add two ounces of grated cheese, one table-spoonful of mustard, salt and pepper to taste: place the maccaroni in a shallow well buttered piedish, by degrees pouring your mixture, made as above, amongst it; dust a layer of grated cheese over the surface and as soon as it browns nicely in the oven, send it to table.IvTEnNTTX UNTo. For a little home dinner. Potage a la puree de legumes. Dame de seer au gratin. Longe de mouton braisde. Pommes de terre a la j’aidit. Beignets de bananes au rhum. Cheese, oat biscuit. Dessert. Cafd noir. 1—Prepare early in the day the usual gravy soup, o Vegetable pnreo. tJlat ^0U 01'der daily,—take i two carrots, a turnip^ draToffTh Salt B?il t0Set,lw': "hen thoreuoWy done ^fve No°wPma PaSS tbe b°iled veoetaWes through th< wne sieve. ISow mix m a sauce-pan a little bit of butter a dessert-spoonful of flour, gradually addin* vegetable Duln 2.—Flatten out on a board a nice slice of seer fish, havin* Slice of seer au gratin. Previously prepared a small cupful of ■? il maccaroni boiled till tendpr butter a small pie-dish, place a layer of maccaroni on it, andMEJVU FOX fi LIZXLE HOME (DIMMefl- 877 dust over the maccaroni a couple of table-spoonful of grated cheese; now put the slice of seer on the top of the macca- roni, put a little butter on the fish, spread a piece of paper over it, and bake for 12 minutes : remove the paper and serve. 3. —In this dish the loin may, of course/ be roasted if pre- ferred. For the potatoes :—mash one jS? h°iled Bellary onion with three or four times its bulk of potato previously boiled and hot, a little salt, a little butter, and some black pepper, form this into a little mould, and brown it in the oven. 4. —Here are our old friends “plantain fritters”—mix Ptafcun fritters. wit,h y0U1' ,ba“f (which should be made exactly like that I have given for leramoushys, with sugar instead of salt) a goodly spoonful of rum, or any liqueur you may have in the house open. The addition of a little liqueur is a great improve- ment. All who have tried pineapple fritters with rum will not hesitate to apply the same test to plantains. Dust over your fritters before serving them a nice coating of finely sifted white sugar. The rum or liqueur should be poured round the sliced plantains, like a marinade, an hour before they are cooked, and used in mixing the batter afterwards. 24dVEEUXTTT KTo. "V. ♦ For a little home dinner. Croute au pot. Merlans a la remoulade. Poulet grille, “ bread sauce." Pommes de terre santees. Sarcelles roties, sauce a la bigarade. Victoria pudding. Cheese, &c. Dessert. Cafe noir. 1.—This is an ordinary consomme with pieces of toast Clear soup with crusts and Veptabule introduced at the last moment. The preparation of the toast however, demands attention. Cut off the bottom crust of a rinnedloaf, with the same thickness of crumb as of crust • cut this out into squares the size of dice, soak them in some stock (from the soup) and put them in a buttered tin into the oven where they should remain until crisp and dry S carrot> turnip, and pieces of celery should be added witn the crusts before serving O FVWI r • <* 2.—Fry the whitings and serve them remouladeV(hofcn)S " 1 1 with the following sauce in a boat:— _ Toss in butter a couple of shallots, . ely minced; add a dessert spoonful of flour and half a pint of common stock; then take a table-spoonful of mixed marjoram, garden cress, parsley, and capers, all very finely minced, and add them to the sauce, with a little French mustard, pepper, and salt to taste, and a little grated nut- meg; lastly, add a dessert spoonful of salad oil, and when the sauce has boiled a minute or two, it is ready.279 JrfEJIU FOIl Ji LIXELE HOME (DIJIJIEIl. 3.- Grilled fowl. -Bone your fowl, and make a nice strong broth with the bones, which will, ot‘ course, form the basis of the gravy to be served round the bird. Flatten out the fowl and grill it smartly over a bright fire, serve with bread sauce, and fried potatoes. Don’t forget the bread sauce receipt I gave in chapter XIV : —boil a Bellary onion in a cupful of Bread sauce. milk with a dozen pepper corns, a pinch of nutmeg, and four cloves ; strain when the onion is quite pulpy, pour the strained milk over the grated bread-crumbs, and heat it up again adding a spoonful of cream before serving. 4. —Bone the teal, and make a game-gravy from the bones and the giblets of the birds, proceeding sauce?al With bisarade as directed (page 209) to make bigarade sauce;—I think, however, that as the oranges which compose this sauce in Europe are the sour Seville, a little lime juice should be added to the sauce to give it piquancy. Roast the boned teal without stuffing, merely folded into shape, skewered, and tied with a string to the spit. 5. —Quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, three ounces of shredded suet, quarter of a pound of Victoria pudding. any jam, the juice of a lime, with the peel grated also, two ounces of sifted sugar, two eggs and a pinch of salt—mixed thoroughly, place it in a buttered mould, and boil for three hours. Sauce :—mixed two tea-spoonsful of flour in cold water and add a cupful of boiling water. Stir in a table-spoonful of the jam you used for your pudding, the juice of a lime and a spoonful of brandy : simmer for five minutes, mix with it a little pat of butter, strain, and pour it both over, and round the pudding. Or this:—Sauce Royale a la Cheiput:—two ounces of sifted sugar, two ounces of butter beaten to a cream, a small wine glass of Madeira, or sherry, and one of brandy; keep it quite cold, and serve in a boat. This is a speciality for plum pudding.The last, most worthy, recipe of all. U ||T is not generally known, my dear Wyvern ” writes ijf ray learned and very kind friend C. S., “ that _ - • e luraes of sulphur prevent the rapid decomposi- Z K r?al matter’ and that a fine tender mutton chop can be had, even in the hottest weather, by exposing the .loint from which it is cut to the fumes of burain^tUM St is'b ^ f" two or hours^C the meat is brought home from market. A joint thus treated Tnd t? Pe;fe,Ct,'y- f°r thirty-S« l.oure,Jeve„7n chased tZ 7"°US> ,t?'!der the it was pur- cnased. The pastiles should be composed as follows 1 Eight parts powdered sulphur. One and halt part powdered charcoal. A quarter part powdered saltpetre. • ^1X a11 together, and make them into pastiles addins r.am\?Ugh/I!m water for the purpose; shape them like three dlT them ? the sun- A roomy box,—say a thiee-dozen case, furnished with hooks to suspend the with;iby/.w,fchaclose,y filing door, and all crevices filled ith putt}T and pasted over with strips of strono- paper is the sort of receptacle you require for the fumigation Suspend the meat, place two or three pastiles below it, licrht them, close the door securely, and leave well alone.” °Page. INDEX. 1- stove the ... do. working of Allemande sauce Almond cheese cakes Apple fritters Artichoke Jerusalem Do. globe (with leaves) ... Do. to trim Do. fritters Do. bottoms au sauce blanche Do. Jerusalem au gratin... Do. do. petits pates of Do. petits pates of Asparagus Do. (tinned) Do. points Do. peas Do. en branches-.. Aspic de puree de volaille a la reine Do. jelly to make aeon value of in rechauffes Bain-marie pan Baking stove a... Do. concerning Ballotines of quails Bandecai with maccaroni Do., in salad Batter for frying Do. in rechauffes ... Beans (country) Bechamel sauce... 181 182 79 258 260 114 116 ib. 117 ib. 115 118 ib. 121 122 ib. ib. 256 196 234 129 77 181 183 252 260 160 151 130 122 78 25282 INDEX. Do. Do. Do. Do. Beetroot leaves... Beef and mutton Beef-steak and vegetables Beef grenadins a la Bearnaise Beignets souffle's Do. do. au Parmesan J-'O. d artichaut de topinambours de p6ches d’ananas de bananes Bigarade sauce for wild duck Bisque de grandes-crevettes Do. de homard Boiling ... Do. common errors in Do. to improve flavour of Do. a ham... Do. fish "... Boiled turkey... Bombay onions Do. _ do. au gratin... Bordelaise sauce Bouilli... Bouillon Braised neck of mutton... Braising Bread-making... Do. do. things required f’ Do. (plain loaf) Do. sauce Breads fancy Bread-making, hints on Bread-crumbing Breakfasts a la Fran^aise Breast of mutton a la "Wyvern Brinjals a l’Espagnole ... Do. au gratin Do. fritters Broiled seer en papillotes Brunoise soup... Brussels sprouts Do. a, la creime ... Do. a la Lyonnaise Do. au jus Page. 114 82 268 197 154 • ib. 117 115 218 245 277 ■209*279 238 ib. 91 92 ib. 94 45 96 120 121 212 ' 32 26 145 83 184 ib. 185 70 & 279 185 186 56 139 261 230 262 269 48 215 111 ib. ib. ib.INDEX. Brussels au beurre ... ’ 283 Page 111 Do. a la maitre d’hotel ... ib. Butter necessity of in cookery ... 60 Do. home made expense of ... ... ... ib. Do. maitre d’hotel ... ... 67 Do. fancy ... • • • 164 Buttered eggs ... 170 [1 abbage stewed 109 Do. au sauce blanche ... ... • • . • 110 Do. with rice and gravy . • * ... ib. Do. leaves with forcemeat ... ... ib. Camp soups au maigre ... 186 Do. do. tinned . . « 187 Do. do. fowl stock for ... ib. Do. do. consomme au Julienne . . • 188 Do. do. miscellaneous stock for ... ib. Canap es 141 Caper sauce ... 165 Capon stuffing ... 88 Do. a la Fran^aise 209 Do. with cauliflower 214 Caramel 28 Carrots ... 118 Do. to trim ib. Do. soup ... ... ...39 & 261 Do. (tinned) ... 122 Cassolettes a la financiere 205 Cauliflower boiled 112 Do. different ways serving of . • . ... ib. Do. au gratin with cheese ...112&223 Do. and cabbages to prepare for cooking 108 Do. plain boiling of ••• ib. Do. au gratin (Italian) without cheese 112 Chapelure 58 Chaud-froid of snipes ... • . • 222 Do. of fowl in -jelly ... 236 Cheese fingers 168 Do. fondue... 177 Do. souffle . . • ... ib. Chicken a la St. Lambert 201 Chives equivalent of ... ... 74 Clear soup with quenelles , , , 195 Do. fish soup ... ... 211284 INDEX. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Clear k la Koyale Do. prawn soup Do. with crusts Do. with lettuce Clarifj'ing soup Colouring soup Consomme Do. aux quenelles au maccaroni de becassines de poisson ... a la Royale ... de laitue de grandes-crevettes Cold meat slices like cutlets Do. vegetables Conserve of tomato Cooked vegetables as salads C ountry vegetables Court bouillon Crab coral butter Do. au gratin Crfeme de riz aux haricots verts Cream (in soups) Do. in salad Croquettes to crumb Croustades of rabbit Croute au pot... Crohtons Cucumber (to cook) Cure’s omelette the Page. 224 259 278 270 27 28 26 195 220 207 211 224 270 259 130 131 175 160 122 46 165 268 273 136 161 53 216 278 40 119 132 ejeuner a Devilled ham ... la fourchette Dil pussund (young) ... Dinde braisde... Dinner rolls ... Drumstick seeds au gratin Duck stuffing... Duckling and peas Duck croquettes a la Bordelaise Dutch sauce ... 140 168 123 253 184 258 86 274 212 72INDEX. els to cook Do. stewed Eggs (in soups) Do. with cream Do. snow Endive Entrees classification of.. Do. selection of Do. of pastry Do. garnishing of ... Do. iced helping of... Epigrams of mutton Espagnole sauce Do. do. descendants of Essence of fowl Do. of game 2S5 Page. 189 239 36 266 205 114 50 51 59 62 63 221 76 77 78 80 ancy butter do. green do. do. do. do. do. Do Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Fennel sauce ... Fillet of beef ... Do. with Wyvern sauce Do. with Anchovy cream Do. with Tartare sauce Do. a l’ltalienne Do. in jelly ... Do. a la Napolitaine ... Fillets of mutton Do. of fowls and game Do. of rabbits Do. of hare Fines herbes vinegar ... Financi&re sauce Fish au gratin.. Do. essence ... Do. cold done up Do. pates (rechauffe) ... prawn crab coral lobster hard boiled eggs in fish in 164 ib. 165 ib. 166 ib. ib. 66 53 202 205 222 143 271 237 53 ib. ib. ib. 157 78 47 80 125 127286 INDEX. Fji?h fitters (pounded) .. IJo. (fresh water) Do. rolled in pancakes Jjoie gras forcemeat Do. do. pain de (Fonds) d’artichaut a la'maitre d’hotel augratin ... h l’ltalienne a l’Espagnole a la Lyonnaise (cold) treatment of do. S°- . do. ®0. do. S°- do. Do- do. J? orcemeats Forcemeat of liver a laf’oie gra Fowl or chicken essence S i'ow! braised with vegetables JJo. a 1 Araericaine Do. il la Wyvern Do. grilled ... Do. boiled with soup stock I rench beans. Do. do. Do. do. Do. do. Do. do. Do. do. Do. do. Do. do. Do. rolls ... Fricandeau of beef Fried bread sippets -Fritters to make wrong trimming of au fines herbes au sauce blanche ... au sauce au fromag au lard ... a la crem (tinned) Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Frying fish batter for oyster, prawn, fruit ... pancake galantine of capon or turkey . Do- of quails u-nerkin sauce... Glazed turnips (navetsglaces) Dourte s classification of sauces... Do. fundamental sauces ... IM • «< II* • ■ • Page. 130 189 254 58 255 117 ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. 88 58 78 230 243 260 279 93 107 ib. ib. ib. 108 ib. ib. 122 185 251 129 149 151 152 153 ib. \ ib. 49 240 197 66 118 65 76287 INDEX. Page. Goose stuffing... Gravy soup Greens on toast Do. puree of Grenadins de bceuf a la Bearnaise Green peas in butter ... Do. butter with sardines Do. gages in cream ... 87 228 111 ib. 197 210 218 223 am to boil Handing round dishes... Hare roast Do. soup Haricots verts Hashes Hashed mutton Hash gravy (at a pinch). Hollandaise ... Horse radish sauce Hors d’oeuvres, service of Do. do. things composing • M 163 Do. do. to compose • • • ib. Do. do. serving the oyster as . . . 1 .. ib Do. do. to choose • » • ib Do. do. combinations of. • • • 164 Do. do. garnishing ... ... ib. ndian corn, k l’Americaine 122 94 62 191 249 107 127 56 128 68 72 162 Isinglass in soups 34 ambon au Madere Jerusalem artichokes ... Do. do. au gratin ... Do. do. fritters Do. do. with cream a la Ghetput Do. purde (au gras) Do. do. (au maigre) Julienne soup.,, ... 94 114 115&247 ib. ib. 264 265 20328S INDEX. edgeree English Tray Kidney soup ... Killing poultry.. Kippered seer fish Kitchen utensils Knolkhol Kramousky the f==Jlaug spirit lamp, the Deg of mutton braised... Diver forcemeat Eoin of mutton en papillote Do. do. with onions Uo. do. braised... -Luncheons Luncheon party features of Do. do. a menu for Do. the lady’s Do. the traveller’s Do. the sportsman’s accaroni (in soup) Do. cheese, and tomatoes a l’ltalienne to treat ... en veloute a foreign dish of au gratin with tomato soup Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. ho. *_i.. .a ,, Macedoine de legumes ... Made dishes component parts o Do. entrees ... Madeira with ham ,,, Maitre d’hOtel sauce Do. do. butter ... Do. do. with vegetables . Marinade value of Do. to make , with meat Page. 127 267 89 138 16 118 151 182 233 58 85 247 277 139 ; 140 141 144 147 ib. 27 130 143 174 175 176 -176&274 175 220 ... 67& 222 * 57 — ib. 95 67 ... ib. 123 54 55INDEX. 289 Page. Marinade for mock venison ... Marinading joints Marrows (young) Matelotte ... Do. d’anguilles ... Mayonnaise a la Chetput Do. sauce Do. do. (W. H. H.) Melted butter sauce Do. do. do. for sweets ... Menu for a luncheon party Minces Minced game in cases ... Milk (in soups)... Mince gravy at a pinch... Do. ways of serving ... Mirepoix Mixed vegetable sauce ••• Mock venison marinade for Do. new potatoes Do. white bait Do. crab Do. turtle, clear ... Do. do. thick ... Mollay keeray (country vegetable) Mould of chicken in jelly Do. of foie gras Do. of strawberries Do. of gooseberries Murrel to cook Do. to stuffing for ... Mutton and beef Do. cutlets ... ... Do. do. trimming of Do. do. to grill ... Do. do. to stew ... Do. do. to bread-crumb ... Do. do. in aspic (tartare)... Do. do. au crfeme de fromage Do. do. in aspic (ravigotte) Do. do. a la Milanaise Do. do. au macedoine Do. do. a la maintenon ... Do. do. with sorrel 123 48 239 160 73 144 66 67 141 127 217 36 128 129 80 67 55 104 116 867 199 200 123 196 255 198 272 189 ib. 82 52 55 56 ib. ib. 108 213 216 225 258 226 239290 INDEX. biscuit CEufs sur le plat Do. au beurre noir Do. au fromage Do. brouilles Do. au jus Do. a la creme Do. a la niege Do. au gratin Do. farcis Do. aux oignons Do. a la maitre d’hbtef Do. au topinambours ... Omelette materials for making Do. the “ Pennaconda” Do. making rules of varieties of ... au Parmesan.., aux legumes ... the Cure’s to make —— elaborate Onion sauce ... Do. stuffed with kidney Uur vegetables classified Oxtail soup (clear) Do. do. (thick) Oyster fritters Do. kramouskys Do. sauce ... Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. ain de foie gras . Do. de fraises Do. de groseilles. Palestine soup Pancake-fritters Pancakes with fish Parsley sauce... ’’ Parsnips Partridges in jelly Do. clear soup of Do. a la Soubise I astry entries of Page. 168 170 ib. ••• ib. ••• ib. 171 ••• ib. 205 172 ib. 173 ib. 174 133 ... 134 135 ... 136 137 ... ib. ib. 138 ... 67 & 266 244 98 242 243 152 209 244 255 198 272 264 153 254 66 118 233 246 265 59INDEX. Peach fritters... ••• ••• • • • 291 Fage. 218 235 105 ... ib. ... ib. 106 Pearl barley soup ... ... Peas—choosing of • • • ... Do. boiled ... ... Do. in the jar ... ... Do. old to stew ... Do. puree green ... ... ib. 78 107 & 210 Pdrigueux sauce Petits pois au beurre ... • . • ::: Do. do. a la creme ... ... ... ib. Do. do. au jambon ... ... ... ... ib. Do. do. au lard ... ... ... ib. Pigeon fillets with bordelaise sauce . . . ... 225 Do. boudins with olive sauce. ... 232 Do. in jelly,.. ... 229 Pine-apple fritters ... ... ... 245 Pistachio nut cream ice. . . . ... 206 Plain loaf, half pound ... .. . ... 185 Plain gravy soup ... ... 228 Plantain fritters ... 277 Podolongcai in gravy ... Points d’asperges 274 ... 122 Pomfret a la Normande. ... 271 Do. a la maitre d’hotel 225 Do. with Venetian sauce (green) • •• 232 Do. with caper sauce ... ... 229 Do. with parsley sauce ... 259 Do. a la poulette ... ... 212 Do. aux fines herbes 220 Do. ragout . .. 273 Pot au feu (Bouillon) ... ... 26 Potage a la bonne femme ... • •• 35 Do. a la Crkcy ... ... ... 39 & 261 Do. k la tortue ... ;.. . . • 199 Do. a la creme d’orge • . • 235 Do. k la Gladstone... ... ... ... 242 Do. k la Palestine ... . . • 264 Do. a la puree de becassines .. • . • •it 253 Do. do. do. de ldgumes ... . . . •. • 276 Do. au pauvre bomme ... 257 Do. de likvre • . • ... 249 Do. a la reine ... 231 Do. a la brunoise ... ... ... 215 Do. a la Julienne ... ■ • * • •• 203 Potato snow ... ... ... 100 Do. cases for entrees . ... ... 205292 INDEX. Potatoes concerning Do. selection of ... Do. boiling Do. new ... Do. to vary service of Do. mashed Do. a la Duchesse Do. a la j’aidit Do. croquettes Do. waxy to treat... Do. a la maitre d’hotel Do. sant6es Do. a la Lyonnaise Do. a l’Americaine Do. chips Do. cones, &c. Do. mock new Do, steamed Do. time for boiling Potted meat *... ..7 Do. prawns... Do. tongue Do. game ... Pork stuffing... Poultry to roast Do. killing Prawn fritters Do. croustades Do. soup clear Do. potted... ;;; Do. puree... Do. butter. Do. kramouskys. ... Pumpkins (young) Palled bread Puree the Do. de pommes de terre Do. of chicken Do. of prawns. ... Do. of peas... Do. of snipe. Do. of tomatoes Do. of sorrel. Do. of spinach Do. of kidneys Page. 99 • •• ib. ib. 100 ••• ib. ••• ib. 101 & 269 ••• ib. ••• ib. 102 • •• ib. • •• ib. • •• ib. ••• ib. 103 104 • •• ib. ib. 105 • •• 166 ib. ib. 167 87 85 89 153 265 259 263 238 165 232 123 168 38 101 196 & 231 ... 238 106 253 175 239 113 267293 INDEX. [nails ballotines of Do. galantines of Quenelles of chicken ... | abbit patties a la financikre Ragout a la financiere ... Do. a la reine Do. of fish Do. cutlet ... ... 57 Do. cabbage cut u p •.• ... 109 Do. fish pudding ... 126 Do. fowl plucking 89 Do. hare paste • • • ... 192 Do. ham garnish ••• • • • 94 Do. hash ... ... • ... . . , 125 Do. kitchen butter 60 Do. onion garnish • . • • • • 62 Do. objections to boiling the fowl with the soup meat 93 Do. omelette... • • • • • • 133 Do. stuffings... 86 Do. toast for garnishing 129 Do. tart pastry concerning • • • • • • 227 Do. habit of dishing ducks ... 274 Ravigotte sauce (cold) ... Ramequins ... Do. en caises Rechauffe’s laws of Remoulade sauce (cold) Ribs of beef with anchovy cream Roasting Roast hare Root vegetables en puree, &c. ... Rolls dinner ... Do. Drench ... Roux ... Rules for soup-making addle of mutton with Drench beans Do. do. with peas Page. 252 197 222 236 237 ib. 273 70 Salads vegetables for 74 178 179 125 74 217 84 191 119 184 185 37 30 197 205 155 2G294 INDEX. Salads dressing plain Do Do. Do. Do. Do. do. principles of do. with eggs service of tomato - cooked vegetables in Salpicon de gibier en caises Salsify au gratin Do. scallops Do. sauce.. Do. soup ... Sandwiches Savoury rice ... Sauce-making utensils.. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. do. materials. Gouffe’s classification o h la maitre d’hotel Allemande au fenouil au fromage au Parmesan au pauvre homme au persil aux capres aux cornichons... aux fines herbes.. bechamel bigarade (Wild fowl) blanche.. blonde bordelaise bread ... Dutch... Espagnole do. descendants of financiere Hollandaise ... horse radish mayonnaise “ Peg Woffington” perigueux piquante ravigotte (hot) ... do. (cold)... remoulade (cold).. Page. 156 ib. ••• 159 • •• ib. 158 160 217 121 ••• ib. ••• ib. ib. 146 222 64 65 ib. 67 79 66 67 ••• ib. 72 66 • •• ib. ib. ib. 78 209 66 67 •212 70 72 77 ib. 78 68 72 - 73 & 144 208 78 68 69 74 ... ib.INDEX. 295 Fage. Sauce remoulade (hot) .. Do. Kojale a la Chetput Do. Salad (plain) Do. do. with eggs Do. soubise Do. tartare (hot) Do. do. (cold) ... Do. tomato Do. veloute Scraps of mutton trimmings to use Scrambled eggs Seakale Seer with cucumbers ... Do. en papillote ... .. Do. kippered Do. with mushrooms Do. with truffle sauce Do. with “ Peg Woffington” sauce Do. with cucumbers ... Do. au gratiu Do. a la Napolitain ... Do. fritters with Hollandaise sauce Snake vegetable in gravy ... Snipe canapes Do. soup clear Do. puree ... Do. en caisses Soup-meat, use of Soups au maigre Sorrel Do. puree ... Spinach greening Do. on toast Do. with anchovy toast Sportsman’s luncheon, the Spitting meat, concerning Spiced pepper.. Do. salt ... Spinach purde.. Do. plain... Do. with eggs and tomatoes Stewed eels ... Stock Stuffing for braised fowl Sue colorant ... 69 279 156 159 67 69 74 175 79 57 170 121 196 48 & 257 138 201 204 208 247 276 216 235 274 227 207 253 217 33 186 114 239 41 113 ib. 147 84 90 ib. 113 ib. 252 239 25 87 28290 INDEX. jabasco ... Tartare sauce (hot) Do. do. (cold) Teal in cases ... Do. with Bigarade sauce Thickening soups Thick soups ... Tinned butters Do. fish treatment of Do. do. (cold) Do. do. (hot) Do. meat (Australian) Do. do. to treat ... Do. do. soup from Do. do. a mince of Do. provisions generally Time in boiling Tomatoes Do. au gratin Do. a ritalienue ... Tomato salad ... Do. puree Do. conserve Tongue in jelly Topinambours a la Chetput Traveller’s luncheon, the Turkey, boiled Do. stuffing Do. hen braised ... Turnip tops ... Turnips Do. to trim Twice-laid of meat Sanilla custard ice Vegetable marrow (to cook) Do. do. au gratin Do. do. fritters (“beignets”) ... Do. pur4e Vegetables not to be handed round with entrees Veloute sauce ... Page. • •• 29 69 74 237 279 37 35 61 188 ib. ib. 189 190 ib. ... ib. 191 94 119 120 & 218 ... ib. 158 175 ib. 271 115 147 96 88 255 114 118 ib. 130 269 119 119 & 272 ... ib. 276 61 79INDEX. 207 Veloute au fromage ••• Do. descendants of •• Victoria pudding Vinegar in salads Do. aromatic Do. do. lines herbes Vol au vent, concerning the Page. 175 70 •279 157 ib. ib. 59 ater-crcss White sauce, plain Do. do. varieties of White bait mock Whitings aux fines herbes Do. -with sharp sauce Wine in soups 114. 66 ib. 119 243 250 29 eatman’s baking powder ... 181(p%-~ ■(! P]a.Kse^(Tn,l Sout1i‘C,ni Iudia> wi&aiuaj by an Atlas of ,, • 1 ,s 0, ns and,.Cantonments, oil "raved bv Waltki- ,, l>> blunt Spurs?: ;»th ,u) ilJM^ i »nciia, Greenlaw's ( HulfHf**®1 ^'-w UDr<lt(Ts' - beiu^ Indian ^ ■IrfenSS6C:^1^,\c'ul uuu °"ilKes iounct m liRliji a'ntl •'• 1y E.d,ward Nicholson, Surgldn', Army Indian Adfnvv “'f • *^d‘’ W1^1 ^ outline and 12 tinted plate's nalan (Ihe) Iam%:Doctor, by G. E. Iviim \sst Wntliv r India,! Do.nestie Economy and Cookery, by’ RWdeltttd" 7 12 jfefiSaI iiddell’ *? ed" ?dVd ^ CoC Mdfm. 1 H °r Ceremonies „f tHe : and its Missions, by the Rev. E. R the German, by J. D. B. Gribble.. Y Senngapatam—Past and Present, >■ , ,- ’ coloured, folded book form R "a - Men wjulnln witK P^tes’ edited b.V Rev:' Simpson! M 12 B,ographies ^ eminent Indian , . tion« p! ’i WS ? arranged, 2nd ed, with emerida- I thTZ’J?^®ider>art?Sd^ltlons and a frontispiece containing the portraits of 22 of the most Eminent Indian men 6 0 to IST-it; "F udimentals, A series of discourses addressed i to JSat ves, -ud ed., with Introduction, by J. B. Norton 4 0* 0 tan So\1ilt;i,'y .{'‘“‘suctnins of the British nation in Hindoos, . ,i#',,vvitli plates and Maps ... ....... 1? ( fM^S^-nold.Ladylfek, ieicivabs (Kev., P.) Tamil Proverbs, with t>>»;<- tiWHs* latidns: 9nd nd their English trim's-» “*W ° v^u.«niuaiiua*, uoitee by u Iclvor, revised ed., fipw ready ... Rhodes (A.) Earth-work Tables, 3rd ed. ... ... or .. Universal Curve Tables for Railways, C.anais,'- &c. Shortt (J., M. d.) Manual of Family Medicine for.India on Indigo Culture, Hindustani and English... * ... Coffee-planting in Southern India ... account of the Tribes and a Geographical and Statistical Memon- of the Neilgherries, by the late Colonel Ouchterlony, Part I *V V-V 4 6 3 14LIST OP INDIAN PUBLICATIONS. Shortt (J.,' M, n.) Account of Jeypore, in Vizagapatam descrip- tive of its feature, climate, people, &c.—The Mahmdra Malli—the Yelagary and Jawady Hills—GalliCondah, A* Manual of Indian Cattle and Sheep, their breeds, management, &c., with 19 plates1-.. ••• Account of Nundidroog, the Mukh, or Kildare Mookha, the Baba Biiden Hills and RamandrOog in Bellary, with 3 plates, Part IV ... ... , ■••• and Cornish’s.'on the Shevaroys, and other Hill- Ranges, in the Salem District, Part II ... ••• ••• Account of Thomas’ Hill or Kilasa in Vizagapatam, 1 12 2 12 2 4 2 ( Report on the proposed Sanitariu m—MemorandumonVizaga- patam Harbour and Port—-Kondavide in the Kistna District—^ The Hill Ranges of the Cuddapah District—The Anamally Hills—The Pulni Mountains—North Coimbatore, and Lamb- ton Peak Range, with 3 plates, Part V ... Scott’s Routes in India, with Map... Skinner’s description of Indian and Burman Timbers Sketches of Native Life and Character in India, by F. E. W... Stoddard’s.(Col.) Hydraulic Rules and Formulae, 3rd ed. ...' Taylor’s Hindu Mythology and Philosophy, 2nd ed.... Tea Cultivation in India... ... Todd’s (Lieut.-Col. James) Annals and Antiquities of Rajast’- han, or the Central and Western Rajpoot States of India, in 2 vols., with a map, royal 8 vo.. .... This reprint has been made without the illustrations of the first edi- tion, so as to place it's valuable information within the reach of those civil and military servants of the Crown, to whom £14 (the price of the first edition) would*be an effectual bar to its possession. Temple’s (Lt. R. C., 21st Fus.) The Australasian Colonies con- ; sidered with regard to sick and general leave, with a map ... Ward’s on the Hindus, 5th ed., with plates -—1—Introduction.to the above... What to tell the Cook, or the Native Cook’s Assistant in 2 7 4 .4 3 3 0 11 12 f f 12 i 1! 27 C 1 2 14 12 2 12 7 English and Tamil, third edition, just out Wheeler’s Madras in the Olden Time, 3 vols. Cotton Hand-book of the Madras Presidency Wilk’s Historical Sketches of Southern India, in an attempt 2 t 13 ( 2 12 to trace the History of Mysore, from the Origin of the Hindu Government of that State to the extinction of the Mahome- dan Dynasty in 1799—2 vols., royal 8vo., with maps, cloth... 26 1 ®. 16. ilUlls, BOOKSELLER. 2 PALACE STREET. BUCKINGHAM QATE. S.W- BOOKS BOUGHT.