LIVING UPONNARROW- MEANS * * •I 22102368852Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/detaiis/b28115326Vt Il3.‘ t /• t ✓ - Ht , ■* ■ Tl, <l»LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS BY CHRISTINE TERHUNE HERRICK BOSTON AND NEW YORK HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN AND COMPANY (2Cbe 2aiuer0i&c |l»re0s, CambriDae 1890Copi’right, 1890, By CHRISTINE TERHUNE HERRICK All rights reserved. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY 1 " CoM.j. we'.VlOmec Cal! No. GT The Riverside Press, Cambridge, Mass., U. S. A. Electrotyped and Printed by H. O. Houghton & Company.CONTENTS —*— CHAP. A WEEK’S DINNERS FOR; page I. Jajjxtary 1 II. February 1'7 III. March 33 VI. April 46 V. JklAY 60 IV. June '13 VII. July 84 VIII. August 09 IX. September 112 X. October 125 XI. November 140 XII. Christmas Week — The Christmas Dinner . 154 XIII. Cheap Mutton and Beef . . . 172 XIV. The Seamy Side of Summer . . . 182 XV. The Tea Table — How to make it Attractive 197 XVI. Dainty Dishes for Tea .... 206 XVII. High Tea 215 XVIII. Country Boarding 223 XIX. Summer Desserts 234 XX. Food FOR THE Sick. — Bouillons and Broths; Regarding Fever Patients; Eggs, Cereals, Arrowroot, and Wafers .... 246 XXI. Food for the Sick. — Chicken, Steak, Chops; Oysters, Sweet-breads, Birds; Jellies, Blanc- manges, Custards ...... 259LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANSo CHAPTER I. JANUARY. The practice of publishing bills of fare accom- panied by recipes for the preparation of the viands enumerated has become extremely popular of late years. With all due respect for the compilers of such menus, who are often highly skilled in culi- nary matters, it may be said that one fault marks them all. They are written either for those who can afford to engage trained cooks, or else for those who have abundant leisure to devote to the concoction of elaborate dishes. But to the thrifty housewife who has the aid of only one maid-of-all- work in the management of her home, or to her who is forced to make the charge of the culinary department but one of a number of equally press- ing duties to be accomplished by her own hands, such directions are oftener a discouragement than a help. She reads descriptions of dishes far be- yond the limits of her purse in cost or of her2 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. time in preparation, and goes back sighingly to the old round of tough steaks, stringy chops, and juiceless roasts. Yet it has been abundantly demonstrated that a wholesome variety may be obtained without a large expenditure of time or money. To illus- trate this truth will be the aim of these chapters. Each month the dinners for a consecutive week will be given, thus affording opportunity to direct how to dispose of the “ left overs ” from day to day. The faculty of manufacturing tempting and novel dishes from simple or hackneyed materials grows marvelously with practice. If the outline for seven days’ meals may lighten by a feather’s weight the burden upon even one housekeeper’s shoulders, or give her a suggestion which will render less monotonous the never-ending, still- beginning toil of catering to her family, the writer will be more than rewarded. SUNDAY. Tomato Bisque. Pot Eoast of Beef. Mashed Potatoes. Cold Slaw. Stewed Celery. Lemon Jelly. Nut Cakes. Tomato Bisque. One can tomatoes. One quart milk.3 JANUARY. One tablespoonful butter. Two tablespoonfuls cornstarch. One teaspoonful white sugar. Salt and pepper to taste. Strain the juice from the tomatoes, setting aside the pulp for future use. Put the liquor over the fire in a saucepan, and add the sugar. Heat the milk in a double boiler and thicken with the corn- starch rubbed smooth with the butter. Stir in a pinch of soda, and just before taking from the stove pour the tomato into the milk. Season and serve at once. If left on the fire more than a minute after adding the tomato, the milk is apt to curdle. This will be found a simple and deli- cious soup. Pot Roast of Beef. Lay in a broad pot a boneless piece of beef, cut from the round. It should be between three and four inches in thickness, a solid “ chunk,” bound and skewered into compact shape. A piece weigh- ing from five to six pounds is enough for a family of ordinary size. Pour over it about a pint of boil- ing water, sprinkle with a few fine shreds of onion and a little salt, and cook over a slow fire. Turn the beef once or twice. Allow about fifteen min- utes to the pound for cooking. When it is done, transfer it to a dripping pan and brown slightly in the oven while the gravy is cooling suffi- ciently to allow the grease to be skimmed from it. Thicken the gravy with browned flour, boil up once, and add a dash of catsup. Pour part4 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. over tlie meat in the dish, the rest into a gravy boat. Mashed Potato. Peel potatoes, cut in pieces, and boil in slightly salted water until tender. Drain dry and beat with a fork until light and creamy, then whip in a good tablespoonful of butter, and enough hot milk to soften the mixture to the desired con- sistency. The housekeeper will do well to use the small potatoes for such purposes as this, keep- ing the large ones for roasting and boiling whole. It is also a good plan to prepare a generous sup- ply of mashed potatoes, as they can be utilized in many forms. Cold Slaw with Egg Dressing. Cut the heart of a white cabbage fine with a sharp knife, and just before sending to table pour over it the following dressing : — Yolks of two eggs. Two tablespoonfuls oil. Pour tablespoonfuls vinegar. One teaspoon fill salt. One teaspoonful sugar. One saltspoonful each pepper and mustard. Whip the oil by degrees into the yolks of the eggs until the mixture is thick and smooth. Add the seasoning and the vinegar, beating all to- gether thoroughly. Both the dressing and the cabbage may be prepared on Saturday, and will keep perfectly in a cold place.JANUARY. Steived Celery. Take the outer and imblanched stalks of celery for this dish, reserving the firm white pieces for Monday’s dinner. Cut into short lengths, stew tender in a little boiling water, drain this off, and supply its place with half a cupful of hot milk. Simmer five minutes, and thicken with a teaspoon- ful of butter, rubbed smooth with a tablespoonful of flour. Pepper and salt to taste. Lemon Jelly. Half package gelatine soaked in a cupful of cold water for an hour. Two cupfuls boiling water. One cupful sugar. Two lemons, juice and rind. Plalf teaspoonful cinnamon. Stir the sugar, cinnamon, lemon - juice, and grated peel into the soaked gelatine, and pour over this the boiling water. Strain through a thick cloth into moulds wet with cold water. Set in a cold place to form. Eat with cream. Nut Cakes. Half cup sugar. Half cup butter. Two eggs. Half cup water. One and a half cups 'prepared flour. One cupful hickory nut kernels, freed from all bits of shell and dredged with flour.6 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Cream the butter and sugar, add the yolks of the eggs, the water and flour, and the whites. Last of all, stir in the nuts. Bake in small tins, and ice if desired. MONDAY. Beef a la Jardiniere. Baked Sweet Potatoes. Celery. Fruit. Beef a la Jardiniere. Slice three carrots, two turnips, and two beets, and cut into inch lengths the contents of a pint can of string beans. Stew these until tender, and drain dry. Pour over them whatever gravy you have left from the day before, and add the residue of the can of tomatoes opened yesterday. Heat your beef in a steamer. If you have none, one may easily be improvised by placing a gridiron or toasting rack over a pan of boiling water set in the oven, laying the meat on the bars and turning another pan over it. When it is heated through, lay it in a platter, arrange your vegetables about it, and pour the gravy around it. This will prove an easy and appetizing method of serving the beef for the wash-day dinner,” that is a bugbear in numberless households. Browned Potatoes. Boil potatoes and peel them. Lay them in a pan and pour over them a cupful of the gravyJANUARY. i reserved from your beef. Set in the oven uncov- ered, and turn them occasionally, watching closely to see that they do not scorch. Let them brown nicely before taking from the oven. Celery. Serve the fresh white pieces reserved from yes- terday’s supply, and arrange in a long dish or a tall glass. Fruit. If possible, have a set of fruit plates. Pretty ones may be bought for from five to eight dollars a dozen, and sometimes for even less. Dainty plates, arranged with doilies and finger bowls and furnished with small silver fruit knives, add an air of elegance to a dish of bright apples or win- ter pears that makes the simple dessert doubly tempting. TUESDAY. Potato Soup. Boiled Ham. Mashed Potatoes. Boiled Squash. Crackers and Cheese. Potato Soup, A dozen potatoes. One cup milk. Two quarts cold water. Bunch of soup herbs and celery tops. Half onion, minced. One tablespoonful butter. One tablespoonful flour.8 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Peel and slice the potatoes, and boil ten min- utes. Drain off the water and return the sauce- pan to the fire with the two quarts of cold water, onion, herbs, and celery. Boil for an hour, then rub through the colander, and return the strained contents of the soup pot to the fire. Bring to a boil, and stir in the butter, rubbed smooth with the flour. Season and pour into the tureen ; after this is done add the cup of milk, which should have been heated in a separate vessel. Mix well. This is a palatable and nourishing soup. Soups are to be especially recommended as much more wholesome than pastry and rich puddings, and costing less trouble. Let them supersede des- serts occasionally, and place the extra course at the beginning of the meal instead of at the end. Boiled Ham. Get a corned ham in preference to a smoked one, as the latter are less digestible than the former. Soak over night, and put on to boil early in the morning in cold water. Cook stead- ily, but not too fast, allowing fifteen minutes to the pound. Skin, sprinkle over thickly with cracker crumbs, dot with “ dabs ” of pepper, and garnish with parsley. Mashed Potatoes. Prepare as directed on Sunday, cooking enough to leave a supply for next day’s dinner.9 JANUARY. Boiled Squash. Peel and slice the squash, removing the seeds. Lay in cold water half an hour, then put it on the stove in enough boiling water, slightly salted, to cover it. Boil for an hour, drain dry in a colan- der, and mash and beat smooth in a wooden bowl. Heat again, stirring in a lump of butter the size of an egg, and quarter of a cupful of milk. Sea- son to taste and serve very hot. Crackers and Cheese. Clear the table as though for dessert; have the crackers heated in the oven, and eat with the cheese. Neufchatel and Philadelphia cream cheese, or the home-made pot cheese,” are very good, or, when these are not available, good Eng- lish or American cheese. A cup of coffee or tea is a pleasant addition. WEDNESDAY. Mutton Stew with Dumplings. Potato Cones. Scalloped Squash. Baked Sweet Potatoes. Cottage Pudding. Glutton Stew with Bumjplings. Two pounds lean mutton. Two cups cold water. One tablespoonful browned flour wet with cold water. Herbs, chopped onion, etc., for seasoning.10 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Have the meat cut into inch squares by your butcher, and put it on the fire in cold water with the onion. Stew slowly until tender, and add the herbs and seasoning. Cook ten minutes longer ; remove the meat with a split spoon, and set aside in a hot place. Thicken the gravy with the flour, and cook the dumplings. Dumplings. One cup prepared flour. One small tablespoonful lard. A little salt. Milk enough to make a moderately stiff dough. Eub the lard and salt into the flour until they are thoroughly mixed; add the milk, and roll the paste into a sheet a quarter of an inch thick, handling as little as possible. Cut into strips about the length and width of the finger, and drop these into the boiling gravy. Cook about ten minutes, and arrange around the meat on a hot dish. Pour the gravy over all. Potato Cones. Beat the whipped yolk of an egg, a teaspoonful of butter, and a little salt and pepper into two cupfuls of cold mashed potato. Form with the hands into cones, leaving a hollow in the top of each. Place the cones in a greased pan, and brown in the oven. Two minutes before removing them, put a little of the whipped white of an egg into the hollow on top.JANUARY. 11 Scalloped Squash. Heat a quarter ciq^ful of milk almost, but not quite, to scalding; stir into it a lump of butter half the size of an egg, creamed with a tablespoon- ful of flour; remove from the fire, and add a beaten egg. Whip this into a cupful of cold boiled squash, season to taste, put into a buttered pudding dish, sift crumbs over the top, and brown in a quick oven. Baked Sweet Potatoes. Wash and wipe sweet potatoes, and bake on the floor of the oven until soft to the touch. Cottage Pudding. One cup sugar. One tablespoonful butter. One cup milk. Two eggs. Two cups prepared flour. Cream the sugar and butter; add the whipped yolks of the eggs, the milk, the flour, and the beaten whites. Bake in a brick-shaped mould well greased, and slice crosswise. Eat with either hard or liquid sauce. THURSDAY. Mutton Broth. Barbecued Ham. Corn Pudding. Cream Turnips. “ Brown Betty.”12 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Mutton Broth. One pound lean mutton, cut small. Two pounds mutton bones, well cracked. Two quarts cold water. Chopped onion and parsley; salt and pepper. Let the meat, bones, and onion simmer slowly several hours. Season, and set aside until cold. Eemove all the fat, and strain out the bones and meat, squeezing out every drop of soup. Have ready half a cupful of rice, which has been soaked in a little cold water for two hours. Add this to the soup; put them on the stove and let them simmer until the rice is soft and broken. Add the chopped parsley and the milk, which should have been heated to scalding in another vessel. A little foresight will enable the housekeeper to prepare the stock for this soup the day before the broth is to be used. Barbecued Ham. Cut large slices of cold ham and fry them in their own fat. Prepare a sauce of three table- spoonfuls of vinegar, half a teaspoonful of sugar, the same of made mustard, and a little pepper. Lay the ham in a hot dish, stir the sauce into the fat left in the pan, boil up once, and pour over the meat. Corn Pudding. Drain the liquor from a can of corn and chop the kernels very fine. Rub together a tablespoon- ful of butter and sugar; add a beaten egg and13 JANUARY. two cupfuls of milk. Stir the chopped corn into this; salt slightly, and bake in a good oven for about half an hour. A delicious dish. Cream Turniios. Peel, slice, and stew the turnips until tender. Make a sauce of a cupful of milk thickened with a tablespoonful of butter worked into half as much cornstarch, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Drain the turnips, pour the sauce over them, and let them stand over the fire in a double boiler for ten minutes. Do not let them come to a boil. Brown Betty. Six large apples, sliced, cored, and chopped. Two cups fine bread crumbs. Half cup sugar. One tablespoonful butter. A little cinnamon. In the bottom of a greased pudding dish place a thin layer of the crumbs ; follow this by one of apples, well dotted with bits of butter and sprin- kled with sugar and spice. Kepeat the layer of crumbs, and continue in the same order until all the materials are exhausted, making the top stra- tum of the crumbs and laying bits of butter on it. Bake the pudding covered fifteen or twenty min- utes, then uncover and brown. Eat with sauce or with butter and sugar.14 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. FRIDAY. Boiled Cod with Tomato Sauce. Mashed Potato, browned. Boiled Pice with Cheese. Plain Macaroni Pudding. Boiled Cod with Tomato Sauce. Order a good solid piece of cod; lay it in cold water, salted, for fifteen minutes ; sew it up in a piece of cheese cloth or white mosquito netting, and put on the fire in boiling water. Cook twenty minutes to the pound. Prepare the sauce by draining the liquor from a can of tomatoes, heat- ing this liquor over the fire, seasoning, and thick- ening with browned flour moistened with a little of the cold juice. Lay the piece of cod, released from the netting, upon a hot dish, and pour the sauce over and around it. Mashed Potato, browned. Prepare the mashed potato as usual, stir a beaten egg into it, mound on a pie plate, and bake in a quick oven. Boiled Bice with Cheese. Wash a cupful of raw rice in cold water, pick- ing it over carefully ; put over the fire in two quarts of water that is boiling hard at the time. Salt slightly, and cook twenty minutes, shaking the saucepan occasionally, but never stirring it.JANUARY. 15 Ascertain if the rice is clone by pinching a grain between the thumb and finger. When it is soft, drain off the water through a colander, and set this with the rice in it over an empty pot on the stove to dry. Just before sending to table, mix into it with a fork a teaspoonful of butter and a tablespoonful of grated cheese, with salt to taste. Plain Macaroni Pudding. Break half a pound of macaroni or spaghetti into inch lengths, and cook soft in boiling water. Scald three cups of milk, adding a pinch of soda; stir in a little salt and a tablespoonful of butter, and add the macaroni, first draining it dry. Cook ten minutes in a double boiler, and eat hot with butter and sugar. SATURDAY. Rolled Steak. Fried Potatoes. Scalloped Tomatoes. Crullers. Coffee. Rolled Steak. Order a round steak, less than an inch thick. Have your butcher beat it hard with the flat of his cleaver, and score it yourself across both ■ways with a sharp knife. Spread it thickly with a forcemeat made of chopped salt pork and bread crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, thyme, sweet marjoram, parsley, and a little finely minced onion. This done, roll up the steak as you would16 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. a piece of music, the forcemeat inside, and bind it firmly into shape with stout string. Lay it in a dripping pan half filled with boiling water, cover it closely, and cook two hours, turning two or three times. Serve with the thickened gravy poured around it. Remove the strings before sending to table, and in carving slice across the end. Fried Potatoes. Peel your potatoes, and slice them very thin. Throw them into very cold water, salted, and leave them there for an hour. Then dry them carefully between two cloths, and drop them into boiling lard or dripping. They should brown quickly. Take them from the frying pan with a perforated spoon, and lay them in a hot colander. Send them to table in a napkin. Scalloped Tomatoes. Cover the bottom of a greased shallow baking dish with bread crumbs, and on this lay the re- maining contents of the can of tomatoes opened yesterday, first chopping them to avoid lumps. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and sugar; cover with another layer of crumbs, and dot this with small bits of butter. Bake covered twenty minutes, and then brown. Coffee and Crullers. Make according to directions given in chapter. “For Christmas Week.”CHAPTER II. FEBRUARY. Ix beautifying the every-day table, the house- keeper refines and educates her children. The boys and girls who have been accustomed to see- ing the best kept for company and the common and unclean made to serve for family use are not only awkward and ill at ease among elegant sur- roundings, but lose respect for the guardianship that does not hold consistency as an essential in domestic matters. One may own velvet and satin without despis- ing homespun, but bear in mind that to make the homespun equally worthy of esteem, it must be neat, clean, whole. To drop metaphor, coarse tablecloths and napkins may be well laundried and carefully laid, stone china and pressed glass immaculate and placed on the table with as strict regard to the conventionalities as though it were the finest Minton and Baccarat. Nor should one commit the blunder of saving real silver for grand events. It is really more economical than are plated knives and forks. It takes generations to wear out solid silver, and its unbreakable qualities make it an exception to18 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. the rules that apply to crockery. Like so-called “company manners,” it should be in daily use. If possible, let each child have his individual fork and spoon. It is a pretty custom that makes the birthday gifts of the boy or girl always in- clude some small piece of silver, — a fork, knife, or spoon, a napkin-ring, or a salt-cellar. The plen- ishing of the future home is thus begun, and the child given that feeling of ownership in the do- mestic belongings that strengthens the household ties and creates an interest in making the home and its contents attractive. SUNDAY. Split Pea Soup. Roast Mutton, stuffed. Succotash. Potatoes au Gratin. Lemon Pie. S^Mt Pea Soup. Two large cups dried split peas, carefull}' washed, and soaked over night in cold water. Two teaspoonfuls butter. One tablespoonful flour. One saltspoonful each salt, pepper, and sugar. Two quarts cold water. Put the soaked peas over the fire in the two quarts of cold water, and let them come slowly to a boil. Simmer until the peas are soft, taking care not to let the liquid be reduced to less than two quarts. As it boils away, add water from19 FEBRUARY. the kettle to keep it up to the required quantity. When done, rub through a colander and return to the lire. If it seems too thick, dilute to the proper consistency with milk or water. Bring to a boil and stir in the butter and flour, rubbed smooth together. It is better to cook these for a few moments before putting them into the soup. Season this to taste, and pour it upon dice of fried bread laid in the tureen. Roast Mutton, stuffed. Have the shoulder - bone extracted by the butcher, leaving a cavity for the stuffing. Make a dressing of crumbs and chopped pork, well sea- soned with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs. Take a few stitches in the edges of the opening to keep the forcemeat from escaping. Lay the meat in the baking pan, dash a cup of boiling water over it, and bake about fifteen minutes to the pound. Baste frequently. When done, transfer to a plat- ter and set in a hot place while you cool, skim, and strain the gravy, and thicken it with brown flour. Pour a little of the gravy over the meat and serve the remainder separately. Canned Succotash. Strain off the liquor and turn out the contents of the can into a bowl for a couple of hours be- fore using, that they may get rid of the close odor peculiar to canned food. Stew about twenty min- utes, putting them on in boiling water. Turn off20 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. the water at the last and pour over them a half cup of hot milk into which has been stirred a bit of soda the size of a pea. Thicken the milk with a teaspoonful of butter creamed with one of flour, add a teaspoonful of sugar, and pepper and salt to taste. Potatoes au Gratin. Prepare mashed potato as usual, and mound it in a pie plate or a dish that will stand the heat. Sprinkle fine dry crumbs over the top and brown on the upper grating of the oven. Lemon Pie. Make pastry as directed in the chapter treating of the Christmas dinner. Line the pie plate with the paste and fill with the following mixture : — One teacupful boiling water. One tablespoonful cornstarch. One lemon. One cup sugar. One egg. Two teaspoonfuls butter. Wet up the cornstarch in a little cold water and stir, into the boiling water. Cream the butter and sugar, and stir into the cornstarch and water. Set aside to cool, and when quite cold, add the egg beaten light, the juice of the lemon, the grated peel, and the inside chopped very fine. Set aside a little of the pastry in a cold place to use for Monday’s dessert.FEBRUARY. 21 MONDAY. Pea and Tomato Soup. Scalloped Mutton. Baked Potatoes. Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. Jam Tarts. F^a and Tomato Soup. To the remains of yesterday’s pea soup add half a can of tomatoes, stewed tender with a tea- spoonful of sugar and rubbed through a colander. Should this thin the soup too much, thicken with a teaspoonful of butter, rubbed into one of flour. The stock made from the well-cracked mutton bone removed from yesterday’s shoulder will be a welcome addition to your soup. Scalloped Mutton. Cut all the meat from the bones of yesterday’s roast. Peject the fattest bits of meat and mince the rest fine with a sharp knife. Put the stuffing with this and moisten all well with the gravy. Fill a buttered pudding dish, strew the top with crumbs, dot with bits of butter, and bake covered half an hour. Uncover and brown. Care must be taken not to have the scallop too dry. Should the gravy run short, borrow a little stock from your soup. Baked Potatoes. Potatoes roasted in their jackets are generally a popular dish, but they are sometimes sent to22 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. the table with the aforesaid jackets bearing too strong a reminder of mother earth to be alto- gether agreeable. Potatoes served in their skins should be very thoroughly washed. It is best to keep a small stiff brush for the especial purpose of scrubbing them. Cook them until they yield readily to the pressure of the thumb and finger, and send to table wrapped in a napkin. Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. Break the macaroni into pieces not over an inch in length and stew in hot water until tender. Drain dry, heap in a hot dish, and pour over it a sauce made of a cupful of stewed tomatoes and half a cupful of gravy from the mutton bones, well seasoned, and thickened with a teaspoonful of butter mixed with as much flour. Sprinkle grated cheese thickly over the top. Jam Tarts. Line small pans with the pastry reserved from Saturday’s pies, fill with jam or marmalade, and bake in a quick oven. If you wish, j^ou may lay strips of pastry across the top. TUESDAY. Curried Veal. Rice. Bananas. Cornstarch Hasty Pudding.23 FEBRUARY. Curried Veal. Order two pounds of veal for stewing. The neck or the leg pieces are much cheaper than the other parts and serve this purpose equally well. Have them cut small for stew, and let them simmer gently until tender, with half an onion minced fine. About ten minutes before dinner, add a couple of teaspoonfuls of curry powder to the gravy and stir in wmll. The amount of curry used must be regulated by the tastes of the eaters. The average palate does not like it too hot. In serving, put the rice upon the plate first and place the curried meat and gravy on top of the rice. Rice. Boil as directed in chapter for January, omit- ting the butter and cheese, and taking the precau- tion to prepare a double quantity, as it will be the only vegetable, and also because it will be needed in the bill of fare for Wednesday’s dinner, Bananas. These must be passed as a vegetable. Their cool freshness counteracts the heat of the curry. Cornstarch Hasty Pudding. One quart milk. Four tablespoonfuls cornstarch. One tablespoonful butter, One saltspoonful salt. Heat the milk to boiling in a double boiler.24 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Stir into it the salt and the cornstarch wet up with cold water. Let it cook ten minutes, add the butter, and let it stand five minutes on the side of the stove before serving. Eat with the following sauce: — Pudding Sauce. One cup sugar. Half cup hot milk. One egg. Vanilla to taste. Pinch of soda. Beat the egg very light and stir in the sugar. Add the soda to the boiling milk and mix little by little with the egg and sugar. Set in boiling water a few moments and flavor just after taking from the fire. WEDNESDAY. Creamed Salt Mackerel. Mashed Potato. Savory Rice. Apple and Tapioca Pudding. Creamed Salt Mackerel. Soak the fish all night, and wipe dry before using. Broil on a buttered gridiron over a clear fire. Lay the fish on a hot dish and pour over it a cream sauce made as follows: — One cup milk. One egg. Two teaspoonfuls butter. One teaspoonful cornstarch rubbed smooth with the butter.25 FEBRUARY. Pepper and a little salt. Chopped parsley. Heat the milk to boiling, thicken with the but- ter and cornstarch, mix carefully with the egg to prevent curdling, cook a moment longer, season, and pour over the fish. Mashed Potato. Directions given in Chapter I. Savory Rice. Heat the cold rice saved from yesterday by adding a little boiling water to it and setting it on the fire in a double boiler. Mince fine half a cupful of cold meat, if you have it. A few re- mains of yesterday’s curry will work in well, but if these are lacking’ boil a couple of eggs hard and chop them. Stir them into the rice, and sea- son well. Turn into a buttered mould, with plain sides. A brown bread tin or a small pail may be used. Set this in a pot of boiling water and cook steadily an hour and a half. Heat half a cup of gravy, and when the rice is turned out, pour this about it. Apple and Tapioca Pudding. Peel and core enough firm apples to fill, with- out crowding, a pudding dish. Pour over them a teacupful of cold water, cover closely, and steam in the oven until tender. Have ready a cupful of tapioca which has been soaked for several hours in enough water to cover it. Drain the water26 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. from the apples, fill the empty centres with sugar, stick a clove in each, and pour the tapioca over and between them. Bake one hour. Eat either with cream and sugar, or with a sauce made by rubbing to a cream two tablespoonfuls of butter with one cupful of powdered sugar. Flavor with a little lemon juice. THURSDAY. Corn Soup. Barbecued Babbit. Baked Hominy. Pea Pancakes. Fruit. Corn Soiqj, Drain the liquor from the contents of a can of corn, and chop the corn very fine. Put it on the fire in a quart of boiling water, and simmer for an hour. Bub through a colander, and return to the pot with a teaspoonful of sugar, and pepper and salt to taste. Boil up and thicken with a tablespoonful of butter, rubbed into one of flour. Have ready two cups of boiling milk, to which has been added an egg, beaten light. Stir this into the soup and serve immediately. Barbecued Rabbit. Open all the way down on the under side, wash out with soda and water, and lay in cold salted water for an hour before cooking. Cut gashes in the back, that the heat may get at the meat, and broil over a hot fire, turning often. Lay on a hot27 FEBRUARY. platter when done, baste plentifully with butter, and pour over it a sauce such as is described in the recipe for barbecued ham in Chapter I. Baked Hominy. One cupful cold boiled hominy. One and a half cups milk. One egg. Two teaspoonfuls butter. One tablespoonful sugar. Eub the hominy smooth with the back of the spoon, work in the melted butter, the sugar, the egg, beaten light, and the milk. Beat hard, and bake covered half an hour in a buttered pudding dish. Eemove the cover five minutes before tak- ing from the oven, and brown. Pea Pancakes. Drain the liquor from a can of peas, and put them over the fire in enough boiling water to cover them. Cook tender, pour off the water, and mash them very smooth with the back of a spoon. Eub into them two teaspoonfuls of butter, and pepper and salt to taste. Whip up one egg, add a cupful of milk, half a cupful of fiour, and a tea- spoonful of baking powder, and stir the peas into this. Bake as one does griddlecakes, and eat hot with butter as a vegetable. Fruit. Apples, Elorida oranges, and bananas are now in season.28 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. FRIDAY. Lobster Bisque. Scalloped Eggs. Fried Bananas. Stuffed Potatoes. Batter Pudding. Lobster Bisque. One can lobster. Four cups milk. Four cups boiling water. Three quarters cup rolled cracker crumbs. Two tablespoonfuls butter. Salt to taste. Cayenne pepper at discretion. Juice of a lemon. Cut the lobster small with a sharp knife, and put into the boiling water with the salt and pep- per. Cook thirty minutes. Stir the cracker crumbs into the boiling milk, which should have been heated in another vessel. Stir the butter into the lobster when it has cooked half an hour; simmer five minutes, add the milk, beat all to- gether, and just before serving put in the lemon juice. Serve as a soup, passing crackers and sliced lemon with it. Scalloped Eggs. Five hard boiled eggs. Half cup gravy or drawn butter. One cupful bread crumbs. Three quarters of a cupful of minced cold meat.29 FEBRUARY. the rabbit left from yesterday, or better still, cold ham or tongue. If none of these are forth- coming, buy one of the small tins of deviled meats that come at a low cost, and use that. Butter the bottom of a pie plate or shallow pud- ding dish, and cover with a layer of the meat. Over this spread the hard boiled eggs, sliced, and pour in the gravy. Sprinkle the bread crumbs over all, pepper and salt and dot with bits of but- ter. Bake covered ten minutes in a moderate oven ; then brown. Fried Bananas. Cut bananas in two lengthwise and dip them first in beaten egg, then roll them in flour. Have fat boiling hot, drop them in and fry them to a fine yellow brown. Take out carefully with a split spoon, and serve folded in a white napkin. Stuffed Potatoes. Select fine large potatoes, and bake until tender. Cut off the ends, scoop out the contents with the handle of a spoon, and work soft with butter, hot milk, pepper, salt, and if desired, a little grated cheese. Eeturn the mixture to the skins, mound- ing it up on the open ends, and with these upper- most, set the potatoes in the oven for five min- utes. Eat from the skin.30 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Batter Pudding. Four eggs. Two cups milk. Two cups prepared flour. One saltspooiiful salt, well mixed with the flour. Beat the eggs light, whites and yolks sepa- rately. Add the milk to the latter, stir in the salted flour and the whites. Beat vigorously for two or three minutes, and pour into a buttered mould. Bake three quarters of an hour in a steady oven, and eat as soon as possible after it is done, as it falls very quickly. Prepare hard sauce for it, such as was directed for apple and tapioca pudding. SATURDAY. Corned Beef. Fried Potatoes. Baked Macaroni. Stewed Oyster Plant. Ginger Snaps and klarmalade. Corned Beef. Buy a piece from the round, taking care that it is not too fat. Soak over night in cold water. Put it on the stove in plenty of warm water; bring to the boil slowly, and cook about twenty minutes to the pound. For sauce, make drawn butter. Take a cupful of the pot liquor, strain and stir into it two tea- spoonfuls of melted butter rolled in a good table- spoonful of flour and a little tart pickle minced fine. Set aside the liquor for soup.31 FEBRUARY. Fried Potatoes. See directions given in Chapter I. Baked Macaroni. ^ Two Clips macaroni or spaghetti, broken into inch bits. Half cupful milk. Quarter pound cheese, grated. Two teaspoonfuls butter. Cook the macaroni in slightly salted boiling water, for about twenty minutes. Drain through a colander, and put a layer into a greased pud- ding dish. Sprinkle with cheese and bits of but- ter, place another layer of macaroni, then more cheese and butter, until the supplies of all three are exhausted. Pour in the milk, and make the top stratum of cheese thicker than the previous ones. Bake covered half an hour, and then brown. Stewed Oyster Plant, or Salsify. Scrape the roots and cut them into inch lengths, dropping them into cold water to prevent discol- oration. Put on in hot water, and stew until ten- der ; drain nearly dry, and cover with hot milk; simmer about ten minutes, and thicken with a teaspoonful of butter, rubbed into a teaspoonful of flour. Salt and pepper to taste. Ginger Snaps. Four large cups flour. One cup lard.32 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. One half cup butter. Two cups brown sugar. One cup molasses. One cup cold water. One tablespoonful ground ginger. One tablespoonful cinnamon. Two small teaspoonfuls soda dissolved in hot water. Put sugar, molasses, and shortening into a bowl and set in the oven until the contents are warm enough to mix readily. Stir in the spices, water, soda, and flour. Plour thickens so variously that it may be necessary to add more in order to make the dough stiff enough to roll out. INIake the cakes very thin and bake quickly. This recipe is for a large quantity.CHAPTER III. MARCH. The cry of the forlorn young housekeeper in “ What Katy Did,” “ I wish some one would in- vent a new animal!” arises to the lips of every family caterer at this season of the year. New vegetables, too, are still scarce. Never was an epithet more apt than that which describes the period preceding the advent of Spring viands as “pinch time.” The housewife’s ingenuity is taxed to the utmost to tempt the flagging appetites that weary of winter fare. Constant study of ways and means will produce surprisingly satisfactory results from unpromising materials, and the con- scientious director of the culinary department will not consider labor and thought thus expended as wasted. SUNDAY. Boiled Chicken and Macaroni. Whipped Potato. Creamed Parsnips. Jonquil Blanc-mange. Boiled Chicken and Macaroni. Stuff as for roasting a pair of fowls of medium size. An excellent recipe for stuffing will be34 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. found in the chapter entitled “ For Christinas Week.” Sew up each chicken in a piece of tarla- tan or cheesecloth, binding down legs and wings with twine. Put over the fire in hot water, and boil steadily, but not violently, for nearly an hour, testing the fowls with a fork to ascertain if they are done. When they are about three quarters cooked, take out a cupful of the liquor, strain and season it, and cook in it a cupful of macaroni, broken into inch lengths. Twenty minutes should suffice to stew it tender. Form this into a broad mound upon a platter, and lay the chick- ens, released from their bonds, upon it. Garnish with parsley, and serve with drawn butter. Whij)ped Potato. Boil the potatoes, and beat them hard with a fork until very light, whipping in butter, milk, and salt to taste. Creamed Parsnips. While the parsnips are boiling, prepare in a double boiler a sauce of half a cupful of hot milk, thickened with a tablespoonful of butter rolled in one of flour, and seasoned to taste. When smok- ing hot, lay the cooked parsnips, scraped and sliced, in the sauce for five minutes, turning them two or three times. Serve very hot.35 MARCH. Jo7iq'uil Blanc-mange. Three cups milk. Two eggs. Half package gelatine. One cup cold water. One cup sugar. One teaspoonful vanilla. One cup cream. Soak the gelatine in the water for two hours. Heat the milk to boiling, adding a tiny pinch of soda and the sugar ; stir in the gelatine, and cook until dissolved. Beat the yolks of the eggs light, and add the boiling mixture to them little by little, to prevent curdling. Keturn to the fire, cook for two minutes, stirring constantly, flavor and pour into a wet mould, with a hole in the centre. This should be done on Saturday. Just before dinner on Sunday, whip the cream light with a Dover egg beater, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a meringue, and fill with this the opening in the turned out bowl of blanc-mange. Heap about the base as well. Fancy cakes are a pleasant addition to this dessert. MONDAY. Chicken Soup. Chicken Shortcake. French Beans with Sausages. Baked Potatoes. Hot Crackers and Cheese.36 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEAN8. Chicken Soup. Break up the carcasses of yesterday’s chickens, having first carefully removed every particle of meat from the bones. Put them over the fire with the fragments of skin and gristle, a little parsley and a chopped onion. Cover them with cold water and simmer gently until this is re- duced one half. Add to it the liquor in which the chickens were boiled the day before, skim, strain, and return to the pot. Add one cup of hot milk, pepjjer and salt to taste, and five min- utes before taking from the range stir in Cereal- ine Flakes, in the proportion of one cupful of the flakes to each quart of the soup. Boil up once and serve. Chicken Shortcake. Two cupfuls flour. One cupful milk. Half cupful butter. Two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Eub the baking powder and the butter into the flour. Stir in the milk and make a soft dough, just stiff enough to roll out very thin. Bake in round jelly cake tins, in a quick oven. Have ready the bits of chicken left from yesterday’s dinner, minced fine with a sharp knife and warmed in a little gravy. Spread this between and on top of the short-cakes, and serve with gravy or drawn butter. French Beans with Sausages. Turn the liquor off from canned French stringMARCH. 37 beans and stew them until tender in boiling water. Drain very dry, mix in a couple of teaspoonfuls of butter and mound on a hot platter. Have ready sausages, fried, and carefully freed from grease, and lay them about the beans. Baked Potatoes. See Chapter II. Hot Crackers and Cheese. See Chapter I. TUESDAY. Drost Dish with Tomatoes. Browned Potatoes. Pickled Beets. Oranges and Bananas. Frost Fish with Tomatoes. Drain the liquor from a can of tomatoes and set it aside for soup. Butter a baking dish, lay the tomatoes in the bottom of this, and sprinkle with bread crumbs, pepper, salt, and bits of but- ter. Lay the fish on this, placing them as closely together as they will lie. Cover with bread crumbs, season, and dot plentifully with butter. Moisten the whole with a half cupful of oyster liquor, easily procured from any fish, store, bake covered fifteen minutes, uncover and brown. Browned Potatoes. See Chapter I.38 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Pickled Beets. Boil four hours, scrape, slice, and butter lightly. When cold, pour vinegar over them. Oranges and Bananas. These fruits are apt to be cheap and excellent at this time of year and make an easily prepared dessert for ironing day. WEDNESDAY. Tomato Soup. Liver and Bacon. Cannelon of Potato. Cold Slaw. Bread and Marmalade Pudding. Tomato Soup. Slice and fry a small onion in two tablespoon- fuls of sweet dripping, placed in the bottom of the soup pot. Pour in the tomato liquor, together with three cups of boiling water. Cook fifteen minutes, season and strain. Eeturn to the stove with a half cupful of boiled rice and a teaspoon- ful of sugar. Cook ten minutes more and thicken with two teaspoonfuls of butter rubbed smooth with as much flour. Boil up once and serve. Liver and Bacon. Have both liver and bacon sliced thin. Fry the latter crisp, transfer it to a hot dish and fr}’’ the liver in the fat left in the pan, first rolling each slice in a little flour. Place the liver in the dish with the bacon and keep hot, while you pre-39 MARCH. pare a sauce by thickening the fat with a table- spoonful of browned flour, adding a cupful of boiling water and a little pepper, and cooking all together for three minutes, stirring constantly. Pour over the meat in the dish. Cannelon of Potato. Prepare as for mashed potato, beating in, be- sides the usual milk, pepper, salt, and butter, a raw egg. Heat in a greased frying pan, stirring until quite stiff. Shaj)e into a long roll, rub with raw egg and sprinkle with fine crumbs. Brown quickly in the oven, transfer to a hot dish and pour a cup of drawn butter over it. Cold Slaw. See Chapter I. Bread and Marmalade Budding. Make according to directions given in Chapter XI. for Bread and Apple Pudding, substituting some good jam or marmalade for the apples. THURSDAY. Veal Croquettes h la Creme. Baked Hominy. Boiled Potatoes. Peach Dumplings. Veal Croquettes a la Creme. One pound raw veal, chopped very fine. One small cup fine bread crumbs. Two cups milk.40 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. One tablespoonfiil butter. Pepper and salt to taste. Let the bread crumbs cook in half of the milk until they form a smooth, soft j^aste. Stir in the minced veal, butter, and seasoning. Let the com- pound cool, and when it can be handled, form into small croquettes. Dip these in raw egg, roll in flour and fry to a light brown in really good drip- ping. If you have none that will answer, use butter. Take the croquettes from the pan with a split spoon, and thicken the gravy with a table- spoonful of cornstarch. Stir in a cupful of boil- ing milk and season to taste. Put this sauce into a double boiler, drop in the croquettes and stew gently ten minutes. Baked Hominy. Two cupfuls boiled hominy. One cup and a half milk. One egg. Two teaspoonfuls butter. One tablespoonful sugar. One saltspoonful salt. Kub the hominy very smooth, beat in the melted butter, the whipped egg, the sugar, salt, and milk. Beat thoroughly and bake in a pudding dish. Eat soon, as it is apt to fall if left standing too long. Boiled Botatoes. Select large firm ones, peel, put on in slightly salted boiling water, and cook until tender. DrainMARCH. 41 off the water, leave them in the pot long enough to become dry and floury, and serve folded in a napkin laid in a vegetable dish. Many cooks claim that it makes potatoes mealy to give them two or three vigorous shakes in the pot after the water has been drained off entirely. Cook a larger quantity than is needed to-day, in antici- pation of to-morrow’s dinner. Feach Dumplings. Two cups flour. One tablespoonful lard. One tablespoonful butter. Two teaspoonfuls baking powder. One and a half cups sweet milk. Pinch of salt. Cut the lard and butter into the flour, dissolve the salt in the milk and make a soft dough, just stiff enough to be handled. Poll into a thin sheet and cut into neat squares. In the centre of each place a canned peach, quartered. Sprinkle gener- ously with sugar, pinch the sides of the dumpling together, and bake with the joined edges under- neath. Eat with hard sauce, made as directed on Wednesday in Chapter II. FRIDAY. Oyster and Salmon Pie. Potatoes Hashed with Cream, and Browned. Stewed Celery. Suet Pudding.42 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Oyster and Salmon Pie. One pint oysters. Half pint oyster liquor. One can salmon. One large tablespoonful butter rolled in flour. Drain the liquid from the salmon and save it. Kemove all bits of bone and gristle from the fish. Place a layer of this in the bottom of a greased pudding dish. Salt, pepper, and sprinkle with bits of the floured butter. On this lay a stratum of oysters, then more salmon, and so on until all the materials are used. Pour in the oyster and salmon liquor, and make a top crust of pastry as directed in chapter, For Christmas Week.” Bake in a steady oven. Potatoes Hashed with Cream and Browned. Cut the cold boiled potatoes left from yester- day into neat dice. For two cupfuls of the potato heat in a double boiler one cupful of milk, thick- ened with a tablespoonful of butter rubbed smooth with one of flour, and seasoned with salt and pepper. Into this stir the potatoes, letting them remain on the fire just long enough to be- come smoking hot throughout, but on no account let them boil. When well heated, turn them into a greased baking dish and brown in a quick oven. If rightly prepared, this is a delicious dish. Stewed Celery. Prej^are as directed in Chapter I.MARCH. 43 Suet Pudding. One and a half eups flour. One cup molasses. One cup milk. One cup suet. Half cup seeded raisins. Half cup currants, carefully washed and dried. One teaspoonful soda. One saltspoonful salt. Free the suet from strings and rub it fine. Work it, with the soda and salt, into the flour, add the milk and molasses, and after beating thoroughly, stir in the fruit, dredged in flour. Pour into a well greased brown bread tin or small pail with tightly fitting top, set this in boiling water, and boil hard three hours. Eat with hard sauce. SATURDAY. Stewed Beefs Heart. Kidney Beans with Sauce. Mashed Potatoes. Cerealine Flakes Hasty Pudding. Stewed Beef^s Heart. Wash the heart thoroughly, and soak for two hours in cold water, slightly salted. Stuff with a forcemeat made of a cup of bread crumbs, two or three slices of salt pork minced very fine, pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful of sweet marjoram, and the same of chopped onion. Moisten with two teaspoonfuls44 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. of melted butter. Fill the heart closely with this, sew up the opening, and tie up firmly in a piece of cheese cloth. Put on the fire in a saucepan with enough boiling water to nearly cover the heart, and stew gently three hours. The water should then be reduced to not more than a pint. Take out the heart; remove the cloth and dish. Set aside a cupful of the gravy and thicken that left in the saucepan with a tablepoonful of butter rubbed smooth in one of browned flour. Boil up, pepper and salt to taste, and after taking from the fire, add the juice of half a lemon and two tablespoonfuls of cooking sherry. Pour over the heart. Carve the heart in slices across the top. A savory and inexpensive dish. Kidney Beans with Sauce. Soak the beans over night, and in the morning boil them until soft. Twenty minutes before din- ner drain the beans from the water in which they were cooked, and put them over the fire with the cupful of gravy taken from the beef’s heart. Simmer fifteen minutes and serve. Mashed Potato. Prepare as directed in Chapter I. Cerealine Flakes Hasty Pudding. One quart milk. Three cups Cerealine Flakes. One tablespoonful butter.45 MARCH. Heat the milk to boiling, stir in the flakes, and cook five minutes. Add the butter and a pinch of salt. Eat with powdered sugar, cream, and a little grated nutmeg.CHAPTER IV. APRIL. The advisability of rendering dishes attractive by dainty serving is not enough appreciated by the busy housewife. It seems so much easier to dish the meat and vegetables “anyhow,” than to use the extra exertion needed to make them pretty that she is apt to grow careless. Habit is everything in such matters. For instance, take the various styles of serving potatoes. When baked or boiled in the skins, they should always be wrapped in a large white napkin folded to a quarter of its size and laid in a deep dish with the corners turned over the con- tents. Sweet potatoes should receive the same treatment. Fried potatoes, after having been drained entirely of fat, should be heaped on a small, fringed, white napkin, lining a dish. Like those cooked in the skins, they “ sweat ” and be- come soggy, if laid directly on the china. Stewed potatoes should be sprinkled with finely minced parsley, and mashed potato neatly mounded. Bread must be smoothly cut, then piled on a little doily or Japanese paper-mat, laid in the plate. Cheese and crackers should be arranged47 APRIL. in the same way. A napkin or doily should al- ways be placed on the bottom of a cake-basket. Croquettes of all sorts should be served on a nap- kin. Celery should be freed from green or rusty stalks, and arranged in a tall glass or long celery dish. Meat dishes should be garnished with sprays of parsley, water cress, or celery tops; fish with these and with sliced lemon. Carrot tops, or young beet leaves, make a pretty garnish, as do lettuce leaves. Gravy should be served in a boat, unless it is some sauce expressly intended to be poured over the meat or fish, and even then it is better to reserve part of it and help it out sepa- rately, as each plate is filled. A dish of fruit is twice as tempting if deco- rated with ivy leaves, ferns, autumn leaves, or any graceful sprays of green. A few- bright blos- soms produce a pretty effect. Bricks or forms of ice cream should be placed on a napkin, as they are thus more easily helped, and are less likely to melt and float than on the bare dish. A little thought will easily indicate to the housewife the best and simplest methods of serving various viands, and she will devise for herself dainty modes of garnishing and arranging dishes. SUNDAY. Boiled Fresh Tongue with Sauce. Savory Potatoes. Lima Beans. Celery Salad. Ambrosia.48 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Boiled Fresh Tongue. Order a beef’s tongue from the butcher. A tongue generally weighs from four to six pounds and has very little waste, as it contains only a small amount of bone. It is sometimes necessary to bespeak one several days ahead, as there is not much call for them. Soak it over night in slightly salted water, wipe dry and trim off a lit- tle. Plunge into boiling water and cook steadily but slowly for an hour and a half, or until tender. This sometimes requires two or three hours. Take from the pot, rub with a raw egg, beaten, and cover thickly with fine bread crumbs. Bake in a good oven half an hour, basting it from time to time with hot water and butter. While it is baking, the sauce may be prepared. Sauce. Take a cupful of the liquor in which the tongue was boiled, heat it to scalding and skim. Thicken it with a tablespoonful of butter rubbed into a tablespoonful of browned flour. Pepper and salt to taste, add a little, chopped parsley and a couple of gherkin pickles, minced very fine. If the flavor is not disagreeable, substitute for one of the gherkins a pickled onion, minced. Boil up, pour part of the sauce over the tongue as it lies in the dish and send the rest to table in a sauce boat. The remaining liquor from the tongue will make excellent soup stock.49 APRIL. Savory Potatoes. Peel and slice potatoes as for stewing, and lay- in cold water for an hour. Put them over the fire in boiling water, throw in a pinch of salt and cook until tender. Drain and pour over them a cupful of your soup stock, skimmed, strained, sea- soned with parsley and a little onion, and thick- ened with a couple of teaspoonfuls of browned flour rubbed up with one of butter. Keturn to the fire, cook ten minutes and serve in a deep dish. Lima Beans. Open the can several hours before using, and pour off all the liquor. Cook twenty minutes in boiling water, drain and toss up with a table- spoonful of butter and pepper, and salt to taste.’ Eat while very hot. Celery Salad. Wash the celery carefully, selecting the finest and whitest stalks, and cut these into inch lengths. Just before sending to table, pour over it a may- onnaise dressing (which may be prepared on Sat- urday) made by recipe given in the chapter “ For Christmas Week.” Ambrosia. Peel small oranges that are not too tart, and divide them into lobes. Place a layer in a glass dish and sprinkle lightly Avith powdered sugar and thickly with grated cocoanut, scattering a little sugar over this as well. Add another layer50 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. of oranges, treat these as you did the first and continue the process until all the materials are used, making the top covering of cocoanut and sugar. This is a simple and delicious dessert. MONDAY. • Curry Soup. Salmi of Tongue with Tomato Sauce. Boiled Potatoes. Corn Pudding. Tea. Ginger Snaps. t Curry Soup. Pemove all fat from the liquor in which the tongue was cooked, season and let it boil half an hour with a chopped onion and several stalks of celery. Strain these out and add to the soup a half cupful of well soaked rice. Let this cook until tender. Ten minutes before dinner, stir in two good teaspoonfuls of curr}'^ powder and let it simmer until needed. If this proportion of curry should make the soup too hot for the palates of the family, it may be lessened next time. Tastes vary so widely in this respect, that experience is the only reliable teacher. Salmi of Tongue with Tomato Sauce. Slice neatly the remains of yesterday’s tongue. Heat the remaining gravy and add to it half a cupful of liquor strained from a can of tomatoes. If this seems to thin the gravy too much, thickenAPRIL. 61 with a little browned flour. AVhen the sauce is boiling, drop the pieces of tongue into it and let them simmer about fifteen minutes. Boiled Potatoes. Prepare as directed in Chapter III. Corn Pudding. See recipe in Chapter I. Tea and Ginger Snaps. Make fresh hot tea, after the family is seated at the table. So prepared, it is a very different beverage from the bitter brew achieved by allow- ing the leaves to steep, or worse still, boil on the range for an hour or more. With the tea serve Holmes’s and Coutts’s “ Homemade Gingersnaps,” the best substitute for the bond fide homemade articles that can be found. TUESDAY. Fillet of Sole. Scalloped Tomatoes. Baked Potatoes. Stewed Prunes. Fillet of Sole. Buy the ordinary flounder from a fish merchant. Lay it on a board, cut off head, fins and tail, and scrape off the skin. Quarter the fish lengthiuise and take out the bone, leaving four strips of the flesh. Cut these into pieces about three inches52 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. each in length, clip them first into beaten egg, and then roll in cracker crumbs. Fry in boiling lard or dripping, having it as hot as would be required for doughnuts. Drain dry of all fat in a colander on soft or tissue paper. Serve on a white napkin laid on a very hot dish and garnish with bits of parsley and sliced lemon. Pass quarters of lemon with the fish, as a few drops of the juice squeezed over it greatly improves the taste. This is a capi- tal imitation of the famous English sole. Scalloped Tomatoes. Of the remains of the can of tomatoes opened yesterday, prepare a dish of scalloped tomatoes according to the recipe given in Chapter I. Baked Potatoes. See recipe given in Chapter II. Stewed Prunes. Put the prunes over the fire in enough water to cover them and stew until tender. Sweeten to taste and eat when perfectly cold. Small sponge cakes or fancy cakes of any kind are a pleasant accompaniment to this dish, or lacking them, nice bread and butter. WEDNESDAY. Bean Soup. Stewed Chops and Peas. Potato Croquettes. Rice Custard Pudding.APRIL. 5a Bean Soujj. Soak one cup of beans over night in cold water. In the morning put them on the stove with a quart and a pint of cold water, and boil steadily until they are soft, adding more water from time to time, so that the quantity of liquid may re- main the same. Put through a colander when the beans are tender and return to the pot. Thin with milk or soup stock to the required consis- tency and thicken with two teaspoonfuls of butter rubbed smooth in a tablespoonful of flour and then cooked together. Season to taste and pour on small squares of fried bread laid in the bot- tom of the tureen. If you have half a cupful of tomatoes left, they may be rubbed through a colander and added to the soup. Stewed Chops and Peas. Lay your chops in a shallow saucepan and poiir over them enough cold water to cover them. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and add half a small onion sliced. Stew gently until tender. When they can easily be pierced with a fork, re- move them to a hot dish. Have ready a can of green peas from which the liquor has been drained some time before. Cook these ten minutes in the gravy from which the chops have been withdrawn and pour them over the meat in the dish. This will be found an appetizing way of cooking tough or ill-cut chops.54 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Potato Croquettes. Boil and mash your potatoes early in the day, unless you have cold mashed potato already in the house. Into two cupfuls beat a lump of but- ter the size of a walnut, one raw egg, and pep- per and salt to taste. Form the mixture into croquettes, rolling them lightly between the hands to acquire the proper shape, and flattening them at the ends. Boll them in flour and set aside in a cold place to stiffen. Fry in boiling dripping or lard, drain in a colander and serve upon a nap- kin in a hot dish. Rice Custard Pudding. Two cups rice, boiled as before directed. Three cups milk. Two eggs. One tablespoonful butter. Pinch of salt. Half tablespoonful cinnamon. Beat the eggs light, and add them to the butter and sugar, rubbed to a cream. Stir in the milk, rice, salt, and cinnamon; pour into a greased pud- ding dish, and bake covered until Arm. Uncover and brown. Eat cold. Cream and sugar are an improvement, although not a necessity. THURSDAY. Stewed Liver. Spinach. Potato Puff. Orange Fritters.APRIL. 55 Stewed Liver. One pound liver, cut into inch squares. Quarter of a pound chopped salt pork. One good sized onion, minced fine. One tablespoonful sweet herbs. Sprinkle the meat thickly with the onion, herbs, and a little pepper; place it in a tin pail with a closely fitting cover, and set this in an outer ves- sel of cold water. Bring this to a boil, and let it cook steadily for two hours. Uncover the inner pail, transfer the liver with a split spoon to a hot dish, thicken the gravy left in the pail with browned flour, boil up and pour over the liver. Spinach. Wash and pick over the spinach with great care, rinsing it in several waters. Strip the leaves from the stems, and cook in slightly salted boiling water for twenty minutes. Drain dry, and chop very fine, until it can be rubbed through a colan- der. Return to the fire, stir in two teaspoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls of milk, a teaspoon- ful of sugar, pepper and salt to taste, and a pinch of cinnamon. Heat smoking hot, and beat very thoroughly until it is light and creamy. Turn out on slices of fried bread or buttered toast. Potato Puff. Two cupfuls cold mashed potato. A little fore- sight the previous day wfill result in having this already in the pantry.56 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Yolks of two eggs. Keserve the whites for the pudding. Half a cupful milk. One teaspoonful butter. Beat the potato until it is free from lumps. Whip the eggs light, stir in this and the milk, butter and salt and pepper to taste, and bake in a buttered pudding dish. It should be eaten as soon as ready, as it is apt to fall as it cools. Orange Fritters. Two cups milk. Three eggs. One and a half cups prepared flour. Six sweet oranges, peeled, sliced, and seeded. Pinch of salt. Make a batter of the eggs, milk, flour, and salt. Dip into this the slices of orange, and fry them in boiling lard. Drain in a colander on soft paper, and eat hot with a sauce made by creaming two tablespoonfuls of butter in a cup of sugar, and flavoring with lemon juice. FRIDAY. Panned Oysters. Baked Omelet. Stuffed Potatoes. Tapioca Pudding. Panned Oysters. One quart oysters. One dozen rounds toasted bread. Two tablespoonfuls butter. Pepper and salt.57 APRIL. Butter a dozen small patty pans. They should be rather deep, and, if possible, have straight sides. Cut the rounds of toast to fit these, and lay one in the bottom of each, buttering them lightly and moistening each with a tablespoonful of oyster liquor. Place on the toast as many oysters as the pan will hold readily, dot with bits of butter, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and add a little oyster liquor. Set in a steady oven for from five to ten minutes, until the oysters “ crimp.” Eat from the pans. Small china “ nappies ” may be used instead of pans. Baked Omelet. Five eggs. Half cup milk. Half teaspoonful cornstarch. Pepper and salt to taste. Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs sepa- rately and very stiff; stir lightly together, add the milk and cornstarch, the pepper and salt, and bake in a buttered pudding dish ten minutes, or until firm. Eat quickly, as it soon falls. Stuffed Potatoes. Prepare as directed in Chapter II. Tapioca Pudding. One small cup tapioca. Three eggs. One cup sugar.58 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Three cups milk. Cinnamon or nutmeg to taste. Tiny pinch of soda. Dissolve the soda in the milk, and pour it over the tapioca. Let it soak five hours in a warm place. Turn it into a double boiler, and bring the water in the outer saucepan to a boil. Let it cook until the tapioca is dissolved. Pour over the sugar and beaten eggs, stir well, add the spice, and bake in a buttered pudding dish for three quarters of an hour. SATURDAY. Savory Stew of Beef. Mashed Potato. Stewed Carrots. Croutons. Salted Almonds. Savory Stew of Beef. Two pounds lean beef, cut for stewing into pieces not more than an inch square. One chopped onion. One tablespoonful minced herbs. Pepper and salt. Three cups cold Avater. Let the water and meat come to a boil very sloAvly, keeping the pot closely covered. Cook gently tAvo hours, add the herbs, onion, and pep- per and salt, and steAv an hour longer. Thicken with one tablespoonful of broAvned flour, wet up in a little cold water; boil up once and serve.APRIL. 59 Mashed Potato. Prepare as directed in Chapter I. Stewed Carrots. Scrape, and boil three quarters of an hour. Take from the fire and slice. Keturn to the saucepan with a cupful of weak gravy, — you can filch a little from your stew, — and simmer twenty minutes. Add two tablespoonfuls of milk and a teaspoonful of butter rubbed into two of flour. Pepper and salt to taste. Croutons. Cut stale bread into slices not more than a quarter of an inch thick, and quarter these slices. Dry in an open oven until the triangles are a deli- cate brown. Spread with a paste made of equal parts of butter and grated cheese, and set in the oven again until they are dry on top. They are a good relish. Salted Almonds. Shell and blanch almonds. When perfectly dry, spread in a dripping pan and stir with a tablespoonful of melted butter. Set in the oven until they brown, stirring often to prevent scorch- ing. They should be lightly browned. Take them out and sprinkle thickly with salt, tossing them about in it, so that all have a generous sea- soning. Eat with the croutons.CHAPTER V. MAY. Tpiere are many ways of adding to the general attractiveness of the table. Some of these have been already mentioned in these chapters. The necessity for perfect neatness and for careful serving have been touched upon. Something more than these is required to give a table the appearance of elegance which makes the time spent at meals a gratification to the eye as well as to the palate. These aids to the housekeeper are so numerous that it is strange the majority of homes are not supplied with them. Good napery is an essential. Linen fine enough to satisfy any reasonable person can be bought now at moderate prices. A pretty tablecloth with the accompanying set of napkins costs anywhere from five to eight dollars. The largest sized din- ner napkins, a yard square, are less popular at present than those three quarters of a yard square. The latter are, of course, not so expen- sive, while they are just as useful. Some people prefer a little color about their table linen, but this is hardly advisable at din- ner. Let the linen then be pure white, and let61 MAY. whatever color is desired come from the china or flowers. An exception to this rule may be made in favor of carving cloths. They are often em- broidered in boiled silk in two shades, with such designs as a carving knife and fork, crossed, a steaming soup tureen, a smoking joint of meat, an elaborately decorated platter, and similar fan- cies. Less pronounced but quite as pretty are those wuth the initials or monogram of the hostess ■worked in one corner. The regular carving cloths can be purchased ready made at most dry-goods shops, or they may be manufactured at home from stout “ butcher’s linen.” They should be nearly square, though a little longer than they are broad, are usually hemmed or fringed (the hem is preferable) and adorned with a border of drawn work or hem- stitching. When the housewife cannot spare time for such needlework, she may use instead a large wdiite napkin, laying it at the carver’s place under the dish containing the meat he is to serve. The cloth thus catches the splashes of gravy and scraps, which even the most skillful carver some- times scatters. When the meat is carried off at the end of the coarse and the table brushed, the carving napkin is removed and the tablecloth is found free of spots. SUNDAY. Boiled Leg of Mutton, Caper Sauce. Creamed Potatoes. Asparagus Bolls. Chocolate Custards.62 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Boiled Leg of Mutton. Sew the meat up snugly in a piece of coarse cheesecloth, and put it in a pot nearly full of boil- ing water, slightly salted. It should cook about fifteen minutes to the pound. When done, re- move the cheesecloth, lay the mutton on a hot platter, rub it with butter, sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper and serve. Set aside the liquor in which the mutton was boiled, for next day’s soup. Caper Sauce. About ten minutes before removing the meat from the pot, take out a cupful of the liquor and cool it by setting it in cold water or on the ice. Skim off the fat that rises to the top, and strain the liquor into a saucepan. Bring it to a boil and thicken it with a small tablespoonful of but- ter rubbed in the same quantity of flour. Season to taste and pour upon a beaten egg, little by lit- tle. Eeturn to the stove for a minute and add a handful of capers. Pour into a gravy boat, and serve with the mutton. Creamed Potatoes. Mash the potatoes, in the usual way, but add nearly twice as much milk as usual, and beat in the whipped white of an egg. Mound in a pie plate and set in the open oven for five minutes before serving.63 J/AF. Asparagus Rolls. Stale rolls. One large or two small bunches of asparagus. Yolk of one egg. One cup milk. Two teaspoonfuls butter rubbed smooth in one tablespoonful of flour. With a sharp knife cut off the tops of the rolls and scrape out the crumb from the lower halves. Set these shells in the oven long enough to dry without scorching. Boil the asparagus tender, drain off the water, cut off the tops, and chop flne. Heat the milk to boiling, thicken with the butter and flour, pour a little on the beaten yolk and stir that into the milk, season to taste and add the asparagus tops. When heated through, fill the hollowed rolls with the sauce, put on the tops and serve. In spite of the elaborate directions, this is not a difficult dish to prepare, and is excellent early in the season before asparagus has become as cheap and plenty as it is later on. Chocolate Custards. Four cups milk. Four eggs. Four teaspoonfuls cornstarch. One cup sugar. Half cupful grated chocolate. Vanilla to taste. Heat the milk to boiling, and add the sugar.64 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. cornstarch, and chocolate. When both are well dissolved, pour upon the beaten yolks, return to the double boiler, and cook until it thickens, stir- ring constantly. When thick and smooth, set it aside to cool. Flavor it just before it is to be eaten, and send to the table in glasses or in a large dish, with a meringue made of the whites of the eggs and a little sugar, heaped on top. MONDAY. Mutton Broth. Mutton and Eice Pat4. Baked Potatoes. Crackers. Cream Cheese. Mutton Broth. Eemove the fat from the top of the liquor in which the leg of mutton was boiled. Season to taste, add a little finely minced onion and half a cup of uncooked rice. Boil until the rice is ten- der. Mutton and Bice Pate. Slice the cold mutton neatly, and arrange it in a greased pudding dish, sprinkling lightly with pepper and salt. Pour over it what is left of yes- terday’s caper-sauce, adding, if necessarjq a little soup. Have ready two cupfuls of boiled rice, into which have been stirred salt, pepper, two tea- spoonfuls of butter, and a beaten egg. Cover the mutton with this, and bake in a slow oven for half an hour, or until it is heated through and slightly browned.MAY. 65 Baked Potatoes. See Chapter II. Crackers and Cream Cheese. Heat the crackers in the oven until they are crisp, but not brown. Pass with them the Phila- delphia or Neufchatel cream cheese, if you can get it. If not, work butter, a little cream, pep- per, and salt into the ordinary cottage or “ pot ” cheese, and eat this with the crackers. TUESDAY. Mutton Potage. Ham and Eggs. Macaroni and Cheese. Stewed Khubarb. Bread and Butter. Mutton Potage. On Monday break the bones of the leg of mut- ton with the back of a hatchet, and put them on the fire in cold water, with all bits or scraps of the mutton that are unavailable for your jpdte. Let them boil slowly several hours. On Tuesday skim off the fat and put the broth on the stove with a handful of spaghetti, broken fine, a couple of potatoes, parboiled, a tablespoonful of boiled rice, and half a can of tomatoes. Cook until the vermicelli is tender. Ham and Eggs. Boil the sliced ham fifteen minutes, and let it get cold. Pry the slices in their own fat until66 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. they are tender and crisp. Take from the frying pan with a fork and lay in a hot dish. Break the eggs into the fat left in the pan, and fry until firm. Lay an egg on each slice of ham. Macaroni and Cheese. Break half a pound of macaroni into pieces and stew until tender in boiling salted water. Drain off the water, and pour over the macaroni a cup of milk, in which has been dissolved a pinch of soda. Season to taste, add a lump of butter the size of an egg, and a couple of tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. Stewed Rhubarb. Scrape the stalks and cut them into inch lengths. Stew in as little water as will cover them until they are tender, and sweeten to taste after taking from the fire. Eat when cold with bread and butter. WEDNESDAY. Boast Shoulder of Veal, Stuffed. Glazed Potatoes. Baked Bice and Tomatoes. Steamed Corn Bread. Roast Shoulder of Veal, Make cuts in the meat near the bone, and fill these with a stuffing made of bread crumbs, a slice of yesterday’s ham chopped very fine, sweet herbs, minced, and seasoning to taste. Bind the mixture with a beaten egg. Boast slowly, bast-67 MAY. ing frequently with hot water and butter, taking great care that the meat does not dry out. Make a brown gravy, as before directed, from the drip- ping in the pan. Glazed Potatoes. Peel good-sized potatoes, and from half to three- quarters of an hour before the veal is done, dredge the potatoes with flour, and lay them in the drip- ping pan. Baste them with the gravy from time to time, and drain them for a few minutes in a sieve when they are quite brown. Arrange them about the veal on the dish. Baked Rice and Tomatoes. Boil enough rice to nearly fill, when cooked, a fair-sized baking dish. Butter the dish, and spread a layer of the rice in it. Dust with pep- per, salt, and some bits of butter, and then place a layer of tomatoes chopped fine. The half can left from yesterday’s soup will be enough. An- other thickness of rice should be followed by one of tomato, and this sprinkled with fine bread crumbs, and dotted with bits of butter. A little gravy poured over the whole is an improvement. Brown in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Steamed Corn Bread. Two cups corn meal. One cup flour. Three scant cups sour milk.68 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Two tablespoonfnis sugar. One large tablespoonful lard. One teaspoonful soda. One teaspoonful salt. Stir the sugar and salt into the mixed flour and meal, add the melted lard, dissolve the soda in a little boiling water, and put into the milk, and pour this upon the dry materials. Beat very hard, pour it into a small tin pail, well greased, and with a tightly fitting top. Set this in a pot of boiling Avater, guarding carefully against the water coming over the top of the mould. Boil three hours, turn out, and eat with a hard pud- ding sauce. THURSDAY. Veal and Ham Pie. Spinach Shapes. Potatoes au Maitre d’Hotel. Strawberry Shortcake. Veal and Ham Pie. Put the bones of the shoulder of veal into a stew pan with all bits of gristle, skin, etc., re- serving the nicer parts. Pour three cups of cold water over these fragments, and add half a pound of raw ham, sliced, an onion and a few sAveet herbs, and simmer till but half the graAy is left. Strain this and thicken it AAuth broAAmed flour. Cut the cold veal and the boiled ham into neat slices and arrange them in alternate layers in a pudding dish. Pour the gravy OA^er all, cover Avith a plain pie crust, and bake.69 MA Y. Spinach Shapes. Prepare spinach as directed in Chapter IV., but instead of turning into a deep dish when it is ready for the table, fill egg cups with it, pressing it down hard. Turn out of the moulds upon rounds of buttered toast, and garnish each hillock with a slice of hard boiled egg. Potatoes an Maitre PHotel. Boil firm potatoes, and when nearly cold, cut into neat slices. Heat a cupful of milk in a saucepan, add the potatoes, two teaspoonfuls of butter rolled in as much flour, a little minced parsley, and pepper and salt at discretion. When heated through, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon and serve. Strawberry Shortcake. Prepare a paste according to directions for chicken shortcake in Chapter III. Bake in layers, and between them place strawberries slightly crushed with the back of a spoon and plentifully sweetened. Cut into triangles and eat either warm or cold. Whipped cream is a delightful addition. FRIDAY. Broiled Shad. French Potato Balls. Green Peas. Queen’s Toast.70 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Broiled Shad. Clean, wash, and wipe a fine roe shad, splitting it open. Lay it inside down on a buttered grid- iron over a clear fire and brown nicely. When done on one side, turn it over, taking care not to break it. Keep it hot while you broil the roes. Lay these about the shad in the dish. Pass sliced lemon with it. French Potato Balls. Three cupfuls mashed potato. Two eggs. Three tablespoonfuls grated cheese. Salt and pepper to taste. Stir the beaten egg into the potato, add the cheese and seasoning, form with the hands into small balls, roll in flour and fry in very hot lard. Green Peas. Lay them in cold water for ten minutes after they are shelled, and cook until tender in boiling water, slightly salted and containing a teaspoon- ful of white sugar. If young and fresh they should not require more than from ten to twenty- five minutes cooking. Drain as dry as possible and stir in salt, pepper, and a tablespoonful of butter after they are dished. Queen’s Toast. Fry rounds of stale bread from which you have trimmed the crust, to a light brown in boiling71 MAY. lard. Free each piece from grease by laying it on soft paper in a hot colander. Sprinkle thickly with powdered sugar and pile on a heated platter. Pass with them a jelly sauce made by directions given in Chapter XI. SATURDAY. Lentil Soup. Baked Mutton Chops, Breaded. Mashed Potato. Stewed Tomatoes. Boiled Kice and Kaisins. Lentil Soup. Soak two cups of dry lentils for three hours in enough water to cover them. Put them on the fire in two quarts of cold water with quarter of a pound of lean salt pork, cut into dice, a small onion, sliced, a couple of celery tops, and a little salt and pepper. Simmer for three hours, adding hot water from time to time, keeping always two quarts in the pot. Take out the pork and celery with a split spoon, rub the soup smooth through a colander and pour on tiny squares of fried bread in a tureen. Baked Mutton Chops, Breaded. Trim the chops neatly, roll each in beaten egg and then in crushed cracker crumbs, and arrange in a dripping pan. Put a lump of butter the size of a hickory nut on each and set in the oven. As they brown, baste half a dozen times with boiling72 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. water and a little melted butter. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, lay in a chafing dish, and keep hot while thickening the gravy left in the pan with browned flour. Add two or three table- spoonfuls of tomato catsup and pass in a gravy boat. Mashed Potatoes. See Chapter I. Stewed Tomatoes. 4 To a can of tomatoes, opened an hour before cooking, add salt, pepper, a teaspoonful of sugar, and a tablespoonful of butter, after the tomatoes have stewed gently for half an hour in a porcelain lined saucepan. Simmer flve minutes after the seasoning has been added, before serving. Boiled Rice and Raisins. Boil the rice according to former directions. Just before taking from the Are add half a cup of hot milk into which has been stirred a beaten egg, and half a cupful of seeded raisins. Cook live minutes, turn into a deep dish, and eat with butter or cream, and sugar.CHAPTEE VI. JUNE. With the arrival of fresh fruits and vegetables, catering becomes an easy matter. Fruit is always an acceptable dessert; one that is easily prepared and is far more wholesome than the made dishes upon which one has to rely in the winter. It usually possesses the added merit of cheapness. Its appearance, at a time when confinement to the kitchen and proximity to a hot stove becomes doubly irksome, is a boon to the housewife. The recipes furnished in this chapter for methods of making cooked desserts in which fruit is used, have been given more from a desire to supply variety than from the belief that any mode of preparing fruit is superior to that of serving it au naturel. SUNDAY. Brown Fricasseed Chicken. Boiled Potatoes. String Beans. Raspberries in Ambush. Broivn Fricasseed Chicken. Select a pair of plump chickens. They need not be very young. Joint them carefully, guard-74 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. ing against cutting them into too large pieces. Tut them into a saucepan Avith half a pound of salt pork cut fine. Pour over them a quart of cold Avater and simmer until tender, letting them cook very sloAvly. AVhen they are done, strain off the liquor into a frying pan, add to it a tea- spoonful of parsley, minced fine, and a very small onion, also minced. Thicken Avith a tablespoon- ful of butter and one of broAvned flour, and boil ten minutes, stirring constantly. The chickens should have been kej)t hot, Avhile the gravy Avas preparing. They may noAv be transferred to a hot dish and the gravy poured over them. Boil the giblets separately in tAAm cups of Avater, season Avell, and set aside for Monday’s soup. Boiled Potatoes. See Chapter III. String Beans. Cut off the ends and trim the edges so as to re- move every particle of the strings. Dhdde into inch lengths and steAV until tender in boiling Avater, slightly salted. Drain dry, dish, pepper and salt, and stir into them a tablespoonful of butter. Raspberries in Ambush. Make a good pastry, according to directions given in chapter ^‘For Christmas Week,” and line a pie plate A\dth it. Bake in a quick oven, and Avhile Avarm spread thickly with red raspberries.75 JUNE. and heap on these a meringue made of the whites of four eggs beaten stiff with half a cupful of powdered sugar. Mix a handful of raspberries through the meringue. Brown very lightly and eat as soon as it is cool. MONDAY. Giblet Soup. Chicken in Bice. Baked Potatoes. Sliced Tomatoes, Durkee’s Dressing. Berries and Cream. Giblet Soup. Cut the meat from the bones of yesterday’s chicken and put them over the fire with a half pound of lean salt pork, cut into pieces, a chopped onion, and a bunch of herbs. Cover with cold wa- ter and stew two hours. Strain and skim and return to the fire with the liquor in which the giblets were boiled. Thicken with a tablespoon- ful of butter rolled in as much flour, add the gib- lets, chopped fine, and just before serving, a cup of hot milk. Season to taste. Chicken in Rice. Boil two cupfuls of raw rice. Spread the bot- tom of a greased pudding dish with this, then put in a layer of the chicken cut from the bones for the soup, season, cover with rice, spread this with more chicken, and continue thus until the mate- rials are used up. The top layer should be of7G LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. rice, into which a beaten egg has been stirred. Before spreading this on, pour in the remains of the gravy. Bake covered twenty minutes, un- cover and brown. Baked Potatoes. Directions given in Chapter II. Tomatoes with Durkee^s Dressing. Peel with a very sharp knife. Cut into slices and lay in a bowl with pieces of ice. Pass as a separate course with a bottle of Durkee’s salad dressing, to which each may help himself. Berries and Cream. Keep in a cold place until just before they are to be eaten. TUESDAY. Baked Shad au Gratin. Mashed Potatoes. Green Peas. Iced Cherries. Baked Shad au Gratin. Split as for broiling and lay in a dripping pan. Pour over it half a cup of boiling water, and bake covered twenty minutes, basting twice with but- ter. Uncover, sprinkle thickly with fine bread crumbs, season with pepper and salt, and pour around it a wineglassful of cooking sherry. Bake ten minutes longer and serve.JUNE. 77 Mashed Potatoes and Green Peas. Directions given in Chapters I. and V. Iced Cherries. Serve the cherries in a bowl with fragments of cracked ice mixed with them. They should, if possible, be fresh gathered the day they are eaten. Stale cherries do not come far short of being ab- solute poison. WEDNESDAY. Veal Squabs. Potato Dumplings. Asparagus on Toast. Strawberry Meringue Pudding. Veal Squabs. Have veal cutlets cut quite thin, spread each with a forcemeat of finely chopped salt pork mixed with an equal quantity of bread crumbs, seasoning with herbs, minced onion, pepper, and salt to taste. Lay a good-sized raw oyster in the centre of each cutlet, and roll it up tightly, tying with stout white cotton. Lay in a dripping pan, dash a cupful of boiling water over them, and bake covered until the meat is done. Skim the gravy, thicken with browned flour, and pour it around the squabs as they lie on a hot dish. Potato Dumqdings. Shape cold mashed potatoes into little cones, slightly flattened on top. Lay these in a baking78 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. pan, put a tiny dab of butter on top of each, and brown in the oven. Asparagus on Toast. Trim the stalks of asparagus until they are of the same length, and tie together with a soft string. Drop the bunches into boiling water, and cook half an hour, or until tender. Toast enough bread to cover the fiat dish in which the aspara- gus is to be served, dip each slice into the aspar- agus liquor and butter it well. Cut the strings about the asparagus, and arrange the stalks on the toast, pouring over all a good drawn butter. For this, stir into one cup of hot milk a table- spoonful of butter, rubbed smooth with one of flour, and let it cook until it thickens. Strawberry Meringue Pudding. Two cups bread crumbs, very fine and dry. One cup sugar. Four cups milk. Two cups strawberries. One tablespoonful butter. Yolks of four eggs. Cream the butter and sugar, add the beaten yolks, the milk and the crumbs. Pour into a buttered pudding dish, and baked covered until firm. Draw to the mouth of the oven, spread the strawberries on the top of the pudding, sprinkle with sugar, and cover with the whites of the four eggs beaten light, with a half cupful of pow-JUNE. 79 dered sugar. Set back in the oven and brown very lightly. Eat perfectly cold with sugar and cream. THURSDAY. Macaroni Soup. Hamburg Steaks. Potatoes Hashed with Cream. Stewed Onions. Cherry Dumplings. Macaroni Soup. Two pounds beef bones, cracked fine. Two pounds veal bones, also broken. One chopped onion. One bunch soup herbs. Three quarts water. Pepper and salt. Half cupful fine macaroni, broken into inch bits. Cover the bones and seasoning with the three quarts of cold water; bring to a slow boil, and cook for five or six hours. The stock should be made the day before it is to be used. Cool, strain, and skim. Stew the macaroni until tender in a little boiling water and add to the hot soup, just before serving. Hamburg Steaks. Two pounds lean beef from the round, chopped very fine by the butcher. . One small onion and one bunch of parsley, both minced very fine. Two raw eggs. Wet the beef with the raw eggs, and add the80 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. seasoning. Lay upon a pastry board spread with cracker crumbs, and roll out the beef into a sheet about an inch thick, sprinkling it with more crumbs to prevent it sticking to the rolling pin. Cut into neat squares with a sharp knife, and fry these in butter until they are well browned. They are very good if properly prepared. Potatoes Hashed ivith Cream. Prepare as directed in Chapter III., but do not brown them. Stewed Onions. Young onions should be chosen for this dish. Stew them fifteen minutes in boiling water, then drain it off, and pour a cup of cold milk over the onions. Let them stew in this until tender; sea- son to taste, and thicken the milk with a table- spoonful of butter, rolled in one of flour. Cook five minutes after adding this. Cherry Dum^olings. Four cups flour. Two tablespoonfuls lard. Two cupfuls sweet milk. One teaspoonful soda. Two teaspoonfuls cream tartar. One saltspoonful salt. Two cups cherries. One cup sugar. Sift the salt, soda, and cream tartar with the flour ; rub in the shortening, and wet with the81 JUNE. milk. Roll out about a quarter of an inch thick and cut into squares about three inches in diame- ter. Heap as many cherries as the dumpling will hold in the centre of each ; • sprinkle thickly with sugar, and press the edges of the pastry together tightly. Lay them with the pinched edges down- ward in a baking pan that has been well sprinkled with flour, and bake half an hour. Serve with hard sauce. FRIDAY. Salmon Toast. Egg Timbales. Mashed Potato. Summer Squash. Raspberry Shortcake. Salmon Toast. Heat two cupfuls of canned salmon, from which the liquor has been drained, in a cup of drawn butter. All bones and bits of skin should first have been removed from the salmon. When it is scalding, beat in one egg, whipped light. Tnrn the mixture upon triangles of bread, fried brown and freed from fat. Egg Timbales. Six eggs. Half cup milk. Four tablespoonfuls grated cheese. Pepper and salt to taste. Pinch of soda in the milk. Beat the eggs very light, add the milk, soda, pepper and salt, and last of all the cheese. Pour82 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. into small buttered patty pans, set these in a pan of boiling water, and bake in the oven until the egg is firm. Turn out on a fiat dish, stick a spray of parsley in the centre of each, and pour drawn butter around them. Eat very hot. Mashed Potato. See Chapter I. Summer Squash. Lay in cold water twenty minutes after it is peeled and sliced. Stew until tender in boiling water, press out all the water, season with pepper and salt, and stir in a couple of teaspoonfuls of butter. Rasjphevry Shortcake. Prepare as for strawberry shortcake (see Chap- ter V.), using instead of strawberries either the red or the black raspberries. If you can get it, spread whipped cream thickly over the top. SATURDAY. Vegetable Soup. Lamb Chops and Potatoes. Young Beets. Green Peas. Cherry Pie. Vegetable Soup. Six sliced tomatoes. Two large potatoes, sliced and parboiled.83 JUNE. One turnip, sliced and parboiled. Two carrots, sliced and parboiled. Two small onions. Two cups green peas, shelled. One cup Lima beans, shelled. Bunch of soup herbs. Half cup nice dripping. One tablespoonful butter rolled in two teaspoon- fuls cornstarch. Two tablespoonfuls flour. Two quarts boiling water. Slice the onions and fry to a good brown in the dripping, add the flour, and brown this. Pour all into the soup pot, rinsing out the pan with a cupful of boiling water and pouring this into the pot. Put in all the vegetables, the herbs, and the rest of the boiling water and simmer slowly for two hours. Put all through a colander, return to the fire, heat to boiling, thicken with the butter and cornstarch, pepper and salt to taste, and serve. Lamb Chops. Trim the chops neatly and boil over a hot Are. Dust with pepper and salt, butter lightly, and arrange around a mound of mashed potato. Young Beets. Boil in salted water an hour, rub off the skins, and slice the beets into a hot dish. Pour over them two tablespoonfuls of boiling vinegar, a tablespoonful of melted butter, and pepper and salt to taste.84 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Green Peas. Directions previously given. Cherry Pie. Make a nice paste as directed in Chapter “ For Christmas Week/’ line a pie plate with it, and fill with ripe cherries. Spread well with sugar, cover with pastry, cut a slit on the middle, and bake to a delicate brown. Eat cold and sprinkle each piece with sugar.CHAPTEE VII. JULY. Aiioxa the useful and pretty contrivances in table furniture that one sees nowadays, none are better worth having than silver-plated pudding or vegetable dishes. They are really more economical than the china vegetable dishes, for although the first cost is greater, they outlast the porce- lain ten to one, being practically unbreakable. The housewife who owns them bids farewell to the qualms of dismay that have stirred her soul at the sight of knobless tops, that compelled her to open the dish by awkwardly lifting the cover at the edges, of missing handles that were a con- stant eyesore to her, or worse still, of dishes that lacked tops and tops that were minus dishes. The worst that rough usage can do for metal dishes is to dent them, — a misfortune any silver- smith can remedy at small expense. If they are washed carefully in hot suds after each time of using and given a minute’s vigorous polishing with a chamois skin, they w'ill keep bright for a long time with no further exertion. A rubbing with a little electro-silicon once in a week or ten days will be all that is needed even when they80 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. are in constant service. They brighten a table and have the great advantage of keeping food liotter than any other kind of dish except one pro- vided with a spirit lamp. There are two styles of these dishes. One variety, intended for vegetables or food of any kind prepared in other ways than by baking, has no inside porcelain casing, but is plated within and without. The bake dishes, on the contrary, are supplied with a porcelain-lined vessel of a size that fits snugly into the outer form. These inner receptacles are proof against heat. The food is cooked in them, and thev are then set in the silver dishes without the trouble o:^ transferring their contents. This is a great improvement upon the white napkin neatly pinned about the pudding dish, which was for a long while the only method of disguising the unsightliness of the yellow earthenware, or of the discolored porcelain that, originally white, had been “ crazed ” and stained by exposure to the heat of the oven. Pie plates come in the same material. For these, as for the pudding dishes, it is well to have more than one inner vessel. An excellent plan is to have half-a-dozen tin pie plates made to fit the same silver frame. With pudding dishes, one extra bake dish will usually be sufficient, as a large number of puddings are seldom baked at once. It is useful, however, to be able to have a scallop appear at the first course and a pudding at the second. The additional inner vessels doJULY. 87 not come with the dishes, but may be readily picked up at a tin store. As pretty, if more perishable, are the china pudding dishes. These come in all prices, from three up to twenty dollars apiece, and in a variety of wares, from the plain English to the costly Worcester and Crown Derby. The inner dishes are of plain white stoneware, warranted to stand heat. For a small family, the medium sized dishes, holding from one to two quarts, will be found more useful than the larger ones, in which a not very big pudding looks absurdly small. SUNDAY. Beef a la Mode. New Potatoes. Lima Beans. Stuffed Tomatoes. Pineapple Pie. Beef a la Mode. Order from the butcher a round of beef, from which the bone has been removed. Bind it firmly into shape with a band of stout muslin. Cut per- pendicular incisions in the beef, through the round, and through these draw narrow strips of salt pork. Make the cuts not more than an inch apart. Into some of them stuff a forcemeat made of chopped salt pork and fine bread crumbs, well seasoned. Lay the meat in a deep dish and pour over it a cupful of vinegar into which has been stirred half a teaspoonful each of allspice, cloves,88 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. pepper, salt, and mustard, and a teaspoonful each of minced sweet marjoram, summer savory, pars- ley, and thyme. All this should be done on Sat- urday, and the meat allowed to lie in the vinegar until Sunday morning, turning it several times. Sunday morning put it into a broad pot, nearly cover it with boiling water, put on a well fitting top, and stew at the rate of half an hour to each pound. Turn the meat once. When done, cut off the muslin band, thicken a cupful of the gravy with browned flour and pour over the meat in the dish. Set the rest of the liquor aside for soup stock. Slice the beef horizontally. It should be mottled with the pork. New Potatoes. Wash, rub the skin off with a rough cloth, put on the fire in boiling water, slightly salted, and cook until tender. Serve whole. Lima Beans. After shelling, cook about half an hour in boil- ing water with a little salt. Drain dry, and when dishing stir in a lump of butter half the size of an egg, and pepper and salt to taste. Stuffed Tomatoes. Cut the tops off large, fine tomatoes and scoop out the inside, taking care not to break the outer skin. Mince what you have removed fine, add to it half as much bread crumbs, season to taste89 JULY. with salt, pepper, sugar, and a little butter, and refill the shells. Eeplace the tops, and if there is any stuffing left, put it between the tomatoes as they are placed side by side in a pudding dish. Cover closely and bake half an hour, uncover and brown. Pineaiyple Pie. Peel a pineapple and cut it into dice. Line a pie dish with good paste and lay the pineapple in it, sprinkling liberally with sugar. Cover with an upper crust and bake. MONDAY. Pressed Beef. Baked Squash. Whole Stewed Potatoes. Cream Kaspberry Tart. Pressed Beef. When the beef is removed from the table on Sunday, fasten the band tightly about it again, lay it back in the cold soup stock and put a thick plate on top of it, bearing a heavy,weight. On Monday take it out, remove the band, and serve the beef cold, garnishing with parsley. Baked Squash. Boil and mash the squash, stir in two teaspoon- fuls of butter, an egg beaten light, a quarter cup- ful of milk, and pepper and salt to taste. Pill a buttered pudding dish with this, strew fine bread crumbs over the top, and bake brown.90 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Whole Stewed Potatoes. Peel the potatoes and put them over the fire in cold water. Bring to a boil and cook until ten- der. Turn olf the water, cover them with warm milk, and stew ten minutes. Transfer the pota- toes to a vegetable dish, thicken the milk in which they were cooked with a teaspoonful of butter worked into a tablespoonful of flour, and season with salt, pepper, and mixed parsley. Pour this over the potatoes, pressing each with a spoon so as to crack it. Cream Raspberry Tart. Line a dish with pie paste and fill with rasp- berries, red or black, sweetening them well. Lay a top crust lightly over them and bake. When done, lift the top crust and pour into the pie a mixture made of a half cup of boiling milk, into which has been stirred the beaten white of an egg, a tablespoonful of sugar, and half a table- spoonful of cornstarch rubbed smooth in cold milk. These should have been boiled together five minutes, and should be cool before put into the tart. Keplace the top crust, sprinkle sugar over it, and eat the tart when cold. This may be prepared on Saturday at the same time with the pineapple pie. TUESDAY. Beef Soup with ISIacaroni. Liver and Ham. Moulded Mashed Potato. Sliced Cucumbers. Lettuce, Crackers, and Cheese.JULY. 91 Beef Soup ivith Macaroni. Kemove the fat from the stock in which the beef was boiled and strain it into the soup pot. Break a cupful of macaroni into pieces about an inch long, and cook them tender in boiling water. Drain and add to the soup when it is scalding hot, let them boil together fifteen minutes, and serve. Liver and Ham. One pound calf’s liver. Half pound ham. Half cup gravy from your soup stock. One cup fine bread crumbs. Two eggs, well beaten. Minced onion and parsley. Pepper and salt at discretion. Boil the liver and chop it fine. If you have no cold ham in the house, buy a slice, boil it and chop it also. Mix with the liver and add the soup stock. Stir in the seasoning, eggs, and crumbs. Grease a Boston brown bread mould or a small tin pail with a closely fitting top, put the mixture into this, fit on the lid, and set in a vessel of boil- ing water, taking care that the water does not come to the top of the mould. Boil two hours, turn out, and pour a cupful of good drawn butter over it. Moulded Mashed Potato. Prepare mashed potatoes as usual, with milk, butter, and seasoning, press them hard into a fluted mould that has been wet with cold water.92 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Turn out, set the dish on which they are in the oven for five minutes, and serve. If you wish, brush the potato over with beaten egg after turn- ing it out, and before setting it in the oven. Sliced Ciicumberfs. Be sure that your cucumbers are perfectly fresh, l^eel them and lay in ice water an hour before dinner. Slice them and serve with bits of ice laid among them. Just before eating, season with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. Many people al- ways wish a couple of young onions sliced with the cucumbers. Lettuce, Crackers, and. Cheese. ]\Iake a separate course of these. Pick the let- tuce leaves apart and lay them in ice water long enough to have them crisp and fresh. Pass Dur- kee’s salad dressing with the lettuce and let each one help himself. Serve crackers and cheese as directed in Chapter V. WEDNESDAY. Braised Chickens. Baked Potato Balls. Green Peas. Huckleberry Koly-Poly. Braised. Chickens. Stuff and truss a pair of well grown fowls as for roasting. Lay them on slices of fat salt pork in a broad pot, pour over them a pint of boilingJULY. 93 water, cover closely, and cook slowly two hours, or until the fowls are tender. Keniove them then to a dripping pan and let them brown in the oven while you strain the gravy that is left, thicken it with browned flour, and boil it until it is of the right consistency. ' Dish the fowls, season the gravy to taste, and send to table in a boat. Baked Potato Balls. Beat up an egg into two cupfuls of mashed po- tato and form it with the hands into oblong balls. Koll these in flour, lay in a well greased pan, and bake to a good brown. Green Peas. See Chapter VI. Huekleherry Roly-Poly. Four cups flour. Two cups milk. Two tablespoon fills mixed lard and butter. One teaspoonful soda. Two teaspoonfuls cream tartar. Saltspoonful salt. Four cups huckleberries. Sift the salt and cream tartar with the flour, rub in the shortening, and wet with the milk. Roll out into a sheet longer than broad and quar- ter of an inch thick. Spread thickly with the fruit, sweetening it well with white sugar. Roll up the dough with the berries inside, as you94 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. would a sheet of paper, pinching the ends to- gether that the juice may not run out. Baste it up in a pudding cloth that has been wrung out in hot water and well floured. Bake an hour and a half. Eat with hard sauce. * THURSDAY. Chicken Mince. Boiled Sweet Corn. Fried Egg Plant. White Pudding. Chicken Mince. Trim the meat from the bones of yesterday’s chickens, and cut it into small neat pieces. Heat the remaining gravy and stir the chicken into it, seasoning well. Simmer for five minutes and turn out on a hot dish. Surround with potatoes browned whole. Boiled Sweet Corn. Strip off the husks and free the corn from every thread of silk. Put on in boiling water, salted, and cook twenty minutes. Send to table folded in a hot napkin. Fried Egg Plant. Slice the egg plant about half an inch thick, peeling the slices. Lay them in salt and water for an hour, placing a plate on them to keep them down. Wipe each slice dry, and dip into a batter made of a beaten egg, a cup of milk, a cup of95 JULY. flour, and pepper and salt. Fry in boiling drip- ping, and serve on a hot dish, first draining off all grease. White Pudding. Four cups milk, in which is dissolved a bit of soda the size of a pea. One cupful sugar. One cupful boiled rice. Four eggs. One heaping tablespoonful cornstarch. Pinch of cinnamon. Grated peel of a lemon. Bring the milk to boiling in a double boiler, add the cornstarch, wet with cold milk, and the sugar. Pour a little on the beaten yolks of the eggs, and return with these to the saucepan. Stir in the boiled rice, cook until it thickens, remove from the fire, season, and pour into a buttered pudding dish. Bake until firm, draw to the door of the oven, and spread with a meringue of the whites of the eggs beaten stiff with a little sugar. Brown delicately, and eat very cold with cream and sugar. FRIDAY. Fish Chowder. Creamed Eggs and Bacon. Corn and Potatoes. Black Raspberry Shortcake. Fish Chowder. Two pounds fresh cod. Six large potatoes. N96 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Quarter pound fat salt pork. Two cups boiling milk, to which has been added a pinch of soda. Six Boston crackers, split and buttered. Chopped onion and parsley ; pepper and salt to taste. Cut the pork into dice, the fish into strips. Peel, slice, and parboil the potatoes. Cover the bottom of the soup pot with fish, strew with the onions, the pork, and the potatoes. Season each layer, and continue arranging the ingredients in this order until all are used. Pour in just enough boiling water to cover all, and stew gently three- quarters of an hour. Line your soup tureen with the buttered crackers, pour boiling milk over them, and turn the chowder upon them. Add the parsley just before taking the chowder from the fire. Pass sliced lemon with it. Creamed Eggs and Bacon. Boil six eggs hard and cut them in slices. Arrange on a platter, and pour over them a cream sauce made by stirring a teaspoonful of butter worked into one of cornstarch into a cup of boil- ing milk, and cooking until it thickens and sea- soning with pepper, salt, and minced parsley. Arrange thin slices of bacon, fried to a crisp, around the edge of the platter.97 JULY. Corn and Potatoes. Cut the cold corn left from yesterday from the cob, and mix it with an equal amount of cold boiled potatoes, chopped. Heat a tablespoonful of dripping in a frying pan, stir the corn and potatoes about in it until they are smoking hot, and send to table in a deep dish. Black Raspberry Shortcake. Two cups sour milk. Four cups flour. One tablespoonful lard. One tablespoonful butter. One egg, beaten. One teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water. One teaspoonful salt. Make a dough stiff enough to handle, and roll into two sheets, one, quarter of an inch, the other half an inch thick. Lay the former in a greased baking pan, spread the berries thickly over it, strew them with sugar, cover with the upper crust, and bake to a good brown. Cut in squares, pile on a dish, and eat hot, splitting and butter- ing each piece before sprinkling it with sugar. SATURDAY. Veal Chops. Scalloped Tomatoes. Boiled Potatoes. Currant Pie.98 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Veal Chops. Trim off superfluous fat and gristle, and broil over a clear fire. Place on a hot dish; pepper, salt, and butter each one, and sprinkle with minced parsley. Boiled Potatoes. See Chapter III. Scalloped Tomatoes (afresh). Prepare as in recipe given for scalloping canned tomatoes (see Chapter I.), only cutting the raw tomatoes into slices instead of using those already stewed. This will take a little longer to cook. Currant Pie. Pick the currants from the stems, rejecting all that are soft. Fill a pastry lined pie dish with the fruit, sweetening it very plentifully. Cut more pastry into strips, and lay them in a lattice work across the top. Bake in a moderate oven, and sprinkle with powdered sugar before sending to table.CHAPTER VIII. AUGUST. “ Keep cool,” is an excellent motto in theory and practice for August weather. The most fer- vid and trying heats of the summer may be expected during this month, and the endeavor should be to make them as tolerable as possible. Especial care in this direction is required in the larder and dining-room. At no other time of year are the flies as troublesome. They swarm about eatables and seem constantly on the alert for mis- chief. It is not safe to have meat exposed for even a moment. When on the table it should be kept covered with a napkin except while it is being carved, and a thick cloth should be laid over it before it is carried from the dining-room. Great watchfulness is also demanded with un- cooked meats, not only to protect them from flies, but also to prevent their spoiling. If they are put upon the ice at all, they must be kept there altogether, and only taken from the refrigerator or ice-house to be put into the oven. Vegetables and fruit should be kept in a cool place until needed, not left in a sultry kitchen to wither into insipidity.100 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. All diligence should be used to keep the dining- room cool and pleasant. Blinds, windows, and doors should be opened as soon as possible after daybreak to admit whatever dewy freshness there may be about the morning. Before breakfast the flies should all be beaten out, the blinds closed, and the nets put in the windows. There should be a fly door betAveen the kitchen and dining- room, and this should be kept shut. Breakfast over, all the dishes that have had food upon them should be carried out immedi- ately, the crumbs brushed up, the table set for dinner, a light cloth or mosquito net throAAm over it, and the room kept dark and cool. The same course should be followed after each meal. Sprinkling the room plentifully Avith insect pow- der the last thing at night and then shutting all the doors and AvindoAvs Avill so asphyxiate the flies that they can be SAvept up in the morning by handfuls and consigned to the stove. Cooling effects should also be sought in eat- ables. Meat should not be eaten in large quanti- ties. Poultry is generally abundant and cheap at this time of year, and it and fish should be, Avhen possible, substituted for beef, mutton, and veal. Hot soups are not especially tempting Avhen the mercury runs up into the nineties. The numerous varieties of fresh vegetables should receive due attention, and fruit should be on the table at least tAvice a day. There are many delicious Avays of preparing it for dessert, and nothing but good can101 AUGUST. be derived from making it the principal part of one’s diet. Americans eat too much meat at all seasons of the year, and its consumption is espe- cially undesirable at a time when the heat renders it almost impossible to take regular and vigorous exercise. Once a day is often enough to have meat, and at the other meals its place may be taken by fish, eggs, salads, and fruit. SUNDAY. Stewed Ducks. Boiled Corn. Baked Potatoes. Fried Egg Plant. Whole Peach Pie. Stewed Ducks. Stuff a pair of ducks as for roasting. Make a gravy of the giblets, by cutting them in pieces, covering them with two cupfuls of water, and stewing a couple of hours. Lay the ducks, stuffed and trussed, in a dripping pan, dilute the gravy from the giblets until there is enough to half im- merse the ducks when it is poured over them, cover them with a pan of the same size as the other, and let them simmer in this for from two to three hours. Take them out and keep them hot while you thicken the gravy in the pan with browned flour, boil it up once and stir in the juice of a lemon, — or better still, two teaspoonfuls of currant jelly. Pass currant jelly with the ducks. This is an excellent way of disposing of old, tough ducks which would be uneatable if roasted in the ordinary manner.102 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Baked Potatoes. See Chapter II. Boiled Corn and If vied Egg Plant. See Chapter VII. Whole Peach Pie. Fill pie dishes lined with pastry with whole peaches, peeled, but not stoned. Sprinkle them thickly with sugar, and lay a good crust over them. Bake in a steady oven. Sprinkle the crust with powdered sugar before the pie is served, and pass sugar and cream with each piece. MONDAY. Salmi of Duck with Green Peas. Corn Fritters. Boiled Hew Potatoes. Tomato Salad. Croutons. Salmi of Duck ivith Green Peas. Cut the meat from the bones of yesterday’s ducks, and break the carcasses into pieces. Put the bones and stuffing over the fire with three cups of cold water, and boil this down to a little over a cupful. Skim and strain this, and put into a saucepan with the pieces of duck. Let them get very hot together, but do not bring them to a boil. Cook about a quart of shelled green peas. Take the duck from the gravy, and pile it on squares of fried bread laid on a hot platter, and arrange the peas in a border about it. Thicken the gravy leftAUGUST. 103 ill the saucepan with a little browned flour, and pour this over the meat. Corn Fritters. Grate two cupfuls of corn from the cob. The ears that are too old for eating in the ordinary method will serve admirably for this. Mix with the corn one egg, beaten light, a cup of sweet milk into which has been stirred a bit of soda the size of a pea, two teaspoonfuls of melted butter, a pinch of salt, and enough flour to make a thin batter. Beat well together and fry on a griddle as you would cakes for breakfast. Boiled New Potatoes. See Chapter VII. Tomato Salad. Peel tomatoes carefully and cut them in half, laying each piece upon a leaf of lettuce. Pour over them a mayonnaise dressing made by beat- ing the yolk of one egg smooth and thick with six or eight tablespoonfuls of salad oil, putting the oil in a drop at a time for five minutes and then adding it more rapidly. Thin with vinegar from time to time. When ready it should be quite as smooth as cream and much thicker. Add salt and pepper to taste. Put only a little on the toma- toes and pass the remainder to the guests that they may help themselves. The dressing must be mixed in a bowl set in a pan of cracked ice, and kept on the ice after it is made until it is served.104 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Croutons. See Chapter IV. TUESDAY. Baked Halibut. Succotash. Browned Potatoes. Peaches and Cream. Baked Halibut. Order a piece of halibut weighing about four pounds. Lay it in salt and water for an hour be- fore cooking. Wipe dry, score it across the top with a sharp knife and lay it in a dripping pan. Bake about an hour in a steady oven and baste several times with hot water and melted butter. When it is done, lay it on a hot dish, strain the gravy left in the pan, and boil up after adding two teaspoonfuls of butter rubbed smooth with two tablespoonfuls of browned flour. Just before tak- ing from the fire add a tablespoonful of Harvey’s or Worcestershire sauce and the juice of a lemon. Pour part of the gravy over the fish and pass the rest in a gravy boat. Sticcotash. Cut the corn from about a dozen cobs, and put it in a saucepan with half the quantity of shelled Lima beans. Simmer in enough water to cover them for an hour, or until tender. Drain off the water and pour over them a cup of hot milk into which has been stirred a half tablespoonful ofAUGUST. 105 butter rubbed smooth with a tablespoonful of flour. Let the beans and corn boil gently in this about fifteen minutes, add pepper and salt to taste, and serve in a hot dish. Browned Potatoes. Boil and mash potatoes as usual, stir in a beaten egg in addition to the regular butter, milk, and seasoning, mound on a pie plate or in a pudding dish, and brown in the oven. Send to table in the dish in which they were browned. Peaches and, Cream. Peel and slice peaches as late as possible before serving them, as exposure to the air discolors them. Never sweeten in the dish, but pass sugar and cream with each saucerful. WEDNESDAY. Larded Shoulder of Mutton. Chopped Potatoes. String Beans, Saute. Sliced Cuqumbers. Blackberry Pudding. Larded Shoulder of Mutton. Make deep, narrow cuts in the shoulder of mut- ton with a sharp knife, and in these incisions in- sert strips of fat salt pork. They should be long enough to project a little way on each side. Lay the mutton in a dripping pan, dash two cupfuls of boiling water over it, cover with another pan,106 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. and bake two hours, basting from time to time with its own gravy. When it is tender, uncover and brown, basting twice with butter and currant jelly. Keep the meat hot, while straining and thickening the gravy left in the pan. Send the gravy to table in a boat. String Beans, Saute. String tender beans and cut them into inch lengths. Cook in slightly salted boiling water for half an hour, drain them and put them in a deep frying pan with a large tablespoonful of but- ter, a teaspoonful of vinegar, and salt and pepper. Toss and shake five minutes over a hot fire, and serve. Chopped Potatoes. Chop cold boiled potatoes into dice. Put them into a saucepan with a tablespoonful of nice drip- ping. Pepper and salt, stirring them constantly until they are hot through, but not browned. Sliced Cucumbers. See Chapter VII. Blackberry Pudding. Two cups milk. Pour quarts flour. Two eggs. One gill yeast. One teaspoonful soda. Saltspoonful salt. Pour quarts blackberries.AUGUST. 107 Beat the eggs, add the milk, yeast, soda dis- solved in hot water, and the salted flour. Set it to rise in a warm place for between three and four hours. When it is light, stir in quickly the berries, well dredged with flour, and bake in a buttered pudding dish. It will take an hour to bake. If the top crust forms too quickly, lay paper over it. Eat with hard sauce. THURSDAY. Summer Soup. Mutton Pudding. Baked Tomatoes and Corn. Watermelon. Summer Soup. Two quarts soup stock, made by boiling your mutton bone, from which you have cut all the meat, with a pound of lean beef, chopped, in four quarts of water. Reduce the liquid by boiling to one half the original quantity. Four cups shelled green peas. Two cups shelled Lima beans. One onion chopped flne. Six large tomatoes. Two tablespoonfuls butter rolled in the same quantity of flour. Lay the peas and beans in cold water for an hour. Strain and heat your soup, put in all the vegetables, and season to taste. Simmer a full hour covered, add the butter and flour, and cook half an hour longer.108 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Mutton Pudding. Chop your cold mutton into small bits, season it well, put it into a buttered pudding dish, and pour over it what remains of the gravy. Prepare two cupfuls of mashed potato, beat into it an egg, a cupful of milk, a tablespoonful of prepared flour, pepper and salt. Spread on top of the mutton. Bake an hour in a steady oven. Baked Tomatoes and Corn. Cut the top off fine large tomatoes and scoop out the seeds. Set the hollowed tomatoes in a but- tered baking dish and fill them with corn grated from the cob, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and butter. Put on the tops, pour a little gravy or some of your soup stock over and around them, and bake, covered, an hour. Brown, and send to table in the pudding dish in which they were cooked. Watermelon. Lay the melon on ice for several hours before it is served. FRIDAY. Salmon Scallops. Beet Salad. Fried Cucumbers. Glazed Potatoes. Green Apple Pie. Salmon Scallojjs. One can salmon. One egg, beaten light.109 AUGUST. One cup bread crumbs. Half cup good drawn butter. Minced parsley, pepper, and salt. Open the can some hours before the salmon is to be used. Pick the fish fine, removing all bits of bone or skin. Stir in the egg and seasoning, and beat the fish into the hot drawn butter. Kemove from the fire and fill buttered scallop shells or small pans with the salmon, sprinkle thickly with crumbs, dot with bits of butter, and brown lightly in the oven. Eat from the shells. Beet Salad. Boil young beets as directed in Chapter VI., and after they are sliced and cold pour over them a dressing of vinegar, salt, sugar, pepper, aiid salad oil. Let them stand in this, on the ice, for an hour before they are to be eaten. Fined Cucumbers. Peel, slice lengthwise, and lay in cold water, a little salt, for an hour. Take out, wipe dry, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and flour well. Fry in nice dripping to a light brown and drain well in a hot colander. Glazed Potatoes. See Chapter V.110 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Green Apple Pie. Peel and slice juicy, tart apples and fill a shell of paste with them. Strew thickly with sugar and scatter thin slices of lemon here and there. Cover with a top crust. Eat warm, with sweet cream and plenty of sugar. SATURDAY. Chicken Pot-Pie. Boiled Cauliflower. Pea Pancakes. Mashed Potatoes. Blackberries and Cream. Chicken Pot-Pie. Joint a chicken as for a fricassee, and put it into a wide saucepan with a quarter of a pound of salt pork cut into narrow strips, and a minced onion. Pepper to taste. The pork will salt it sufficiently. Pour in enough cold water to cover the contents of the pot well. Make a good biscuit dough or plain pie paste, cut a round crust to fit the size of the pot and lay it over the chicken, etc. Stew two hours. Heat a stove shovel red hot and brown the crust by holding the shovel over it. Take off the crust carefully, that you may not break it, and put it aside where it will keep hot. Kemove the chicken to a warm dish, bring the gravy left in the saucepan to a hard boil, and drop into it squares of your pie paste. Let them cook ten minutes, take them out, and arrange about the chicken. Thicken the gravy with a table-AUGUST. Ill spoonful of butter rolled in flour, pour over the chicken, and lay the baked crust on top of all. Boiled Cauliflower. Tie the cauliflower up in a piece of cheese cloth or mosquito net, plunge it into a pot of boiling wate:^ and cook fast for from twenty minutes to half an hour. Kemove the netting, lay in a deep dish with the stems down, and pour over it a good drawn butter into which has been squeezed the juice of a lemon. Pea Pancakes. Boil the peas soft and mash them with a potato beetle. Whip into them a teaspoonful of butter, pepper and salt to taste, one egg beaten light, a cupful of milk, and half a cup of flour into which has been thoroughly mixed a teaspoonful of bak- ing powder. Bake on a griddle and eat very hot. Mashed Potatoes. See Chapter I. Blackberries and Cream. Pick the blackberries over carefully, and let them get very cold before serving them. Light cakes of any sort make an agreeable accompani- ment to berries and cream.CHAPTER IX. SEPTEMBER. Some of the methods for adding to the comfort of meals and the excellence of food are so simple that the wonder arises that they are so seldom practiced. Chief among them may be mentioned hot food served upon hot plates. Most modern stoves and ranges are supplied with an apparatus for keeping dishes hot, but apparently it is not often put into use. Soup comes to the table in a tepid condition that dis- gusts instead of stimulating the stomach. Vege- tables are often lukewarm messes, and meats are surrounded by a pool of congealed gravy. Vege- tables, especially, should be smoking hot. Such esculents as squash, turnips, and parsnips lose all excellence as they become cold, and are nauseating rather than appetizing. It is not sufficient to have the food come warm from the kitchen. The plates from which it is to be eaten should be well heated. Where there is no plate-warmer attached to a stove, a few min- utes on a register, before a grate, or in an open oven will do the work. In heating dishes in an oven or plate-warmer,113 SEPTEMBER. care must be taken to avoid getting them so hot as to imperil the glazing of the china, or render them too hot to handle. It is not pleasant to get hold of a plate that threatens to blister the fin- gers. Some people urge this as an excuse for having all the dishes stone cold. But there is a readily acquired medium of comfort, and it is a pity it should not always be attained. SUNDAY. Boast Lamb. Mint Sauce. Fried Squash. Whipped Potatoes. Sliced Cucumbers. Cream Peach Pie. Roast Lamb. Pour a cupful of boiling water over the piece of lamb as it lies in the dripping pan. Cook in a steady oven, allowing from ten to twelve minutes to the pound, and basting frequently and plen- tifully. Cover it if it threatens to brown too quickly. By this time of year lamb ought to be very reasonable. A shoulder piece is quite as nice as the leg and less expensive. Pass the sauce with it, but none of the gravy. Mint Sauce. Chop a bunch of mint very fine, put it into a china bowl, and with the back of a silver spoon rub into it a saltspoonful of salt, half as much pepper, and a tablespoonful of white sugar. When114 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. the mint is well bruised and all the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, add by degrees three table- spoonfuls of vinegar. Stir up well before help- ing. Fried Squash. Peel and cut a summer squash into slices about quarter of an inch thick. Lay these in salted water half an hour, and then dry between two clean towels. Dip first into beaten egg and then into cracker crumbs. Salt and pepper, and fry to a nice brown in lard or good dripping. Whipped Potatoes. See Chapter III. Sliced Cucumbers. See Chapter VII. Cream Peach Pie. Line a pie plate with good pastry and fill with halved peaches pared and stoned. Sprinkle thickly with sugar and lay over all an upper crust, buttering the edge where it will touch the lower layer of pastry. Bake quickly. While it is still hot lift the crust and pour a cream into it made of a cup of milk, the whipped whites of two eggs, a tablespoonful of sugar, and a small teaspoonful of cornstarch. This should have been cooked three minutes, the milk being heated first in a double boiler, and the other ingredients added to this. The mixture should be perfectly cold before it is poured into the pie.115 SEPTEMBER. MONDAY. Curried Lamb. Boiled Rice. Bananas. Roast Green Corn. Peaches and Cream. Curried Lamb. Cut the remnants of yesterday’s lamb into thin slices or small neat pieces. Make a gravy of the bones, skimming the fat from this after it has cooled. Warm it again and add to it two teaspoon- fuls of curry powder. Drop into this the pieces of lamb, and let all simmer about ten minutes before serving. Boiled Rice. Wash the rice carefully, picking out discolored kernels or specks. Put two cupfuls of the rice over the fire in three pints of boiling water and boil hard for fifteen minutes, setting the sauce- pan over the hottest of the fire and giving it an occasional shake. Test the condition of the rice by pinching a grain of it between the thumb and finger. When it is soft, drain off the water and set the saucepan to the side of the stove, where the rice will dry without scorching. At the table, serve the rice first, and heap the curry upon it and around it in genuine East India fashion, Bananas. Keep them on the ice until the last moment, and pass them with the rice and curry.116 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Roast Green Corn. Select tender ears, turn back the husks and re- move the silk, then re-cover the grains with the husks. Lay on the floor of the oven and roast, turning often. Wrap in a napkin laid in a dish. Send to table with the inner husk left on. Peaches and Cream. See Chapter VIII. TUESDAY. Steak and Mushrooms. Succotash. Boiled Potatoes. Nutmeg Melons. Steak and Mushrooms. Select a nice sirloin steak an inch thick and beat it well with the flat of a hatchet. Cut it into pieces about three inches square and broil these over a clear Are. Pepper, salt, and butter. Lay on a flat dish and keep hot. Open a can of mushrooms, drain off the liquor, take out half of the mushrooms, cut each in two, and put them into a saucepan in which a tablespoonful of but- ter rubbed smooth in as much browned flour, half a cup of boiling water and a little salt and pep- per, have been cooked together about ten minutes. Let the mushrooms become heated through, and pour these around the steak as it lies in the dish. A couple of tablespoonfuls of cooking sherry added just before the mushroopis are taken from the fire is a great improvement,117 SEPTEMBER. It may sound extravagant to recommend mush- rooms. While they are rather expensive, their occasional use is not a heavy drain, and they add greatly to the delicacy and flavor of any dish v/ith which they are served. By purchasing the canned champignons, or French mushrooms, all risks of poisoning may be avoided. The rest of the can will keep perfectly for a few days, if set in a cool place. Succotash. See Chapter VIII. Boiled Potatoes. See Chapter III. Nutmeg Melons. Lay the melons in the ice-house or on the cellar floor until just before they are needed. Then halve them carefully, scrape out the seeds, and lay in each semi-sphere a lump of ice. Send to table on a large platter. Southerners eat them with pepper and salt, while some people prefer dipping each slice in sugar. WEDNESDAY. Stewed Shoulder of Veal. Stripped Potatoes. Stuffed Egg Plant. Peach Batter Pudding.118 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Stewed Shoulder of Veal. Have the bone removed from the shoulder, and stuff the space left with a cup of bread crumbs seasoned with sweet marjoram, thyme, salt, and pepper. A little finely chopped ham or lean salt pork is an improvement. Put the meat into a broad pot, pour over it a couple of quarts of boil- ing water, add a chopped onion and a couple of stalks of celery, cover and stew gently for two hours. Remove the meat and keep it hot while you strain a cupful of the liquor in which it was cooked, thicken it with browned flour, and bring it to a brisk boil in a small saucepan. Pour a lit- tle over the meat and send the rest to table in a gravy boat. The rest of the stock may be set away for to-morrow’s soup. Stri'pjped Potatoes. Peel potatoes and cut them into neat strips. Put them on in boiling water and cook until ten- der. Drain dry and pour over them a cupful of hot milk, thickened with a tablespoonful of flour rubbed smooth with a teaspoonful of butter. Sea- son with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, and simmer three minutes. Stuffed Egg Plant. Select a small or medium sized egg plant and put it on the stove in a saucepan of boiling water. Cook it steadily for half an hour. Take it out, cut it in half and scoop out the inside, taking careSEPTEMBER. 119 not to break the skin. The soft portion removed must be beaten smooth with a fork, well seasoned, and a lump of butter the size of an egg mixed with it. Fill the two shells made by the divided egg plant, sprinkle the top of each with bread crumbs, dot with bits of butter, and brown in the oven for ten minutes. Peach Battei' Pudding. One pint prepared flour. Three eggs, whipped light. Four cups milk. One tablespoonful butter. Pinch of salt. A dozen nice peaches, peeled, stoned, and halved. Eub the butter into the salted flour, beat the milk into the eggs and stir these into the flour. Arrange the peaches in a buttered pudding dish and pour the batter over and around them. Bake in a steady oven and eat with hard sauce. THURSDAY. Barley Soup. Veal Eagout. Baked Hominy, Eoast Sweet Potatoes, Stewed Pears with Eice, Barley Soup. Crush the bones of the shoulder of veal cooked yesterday, first cutting off all the meat. Stew120 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. the bones for several hours, putting them on in three quarts of cold water, with an onion, a car- rot, and a bunch of herbs. When the liquor is reduced about one half, strain, cool, and skim it, first adding to it whatever is left of yesterday’s stock from the stewed veal, after you have re- served a good cupful for your ragout. Wash a cupful of pearl barley and cook it half an hour in slightly salted water. Add this to the strained and skimmed soup, season to taste, add the barley and simmer half an hour before dishing. Veal Ragout. Cut the remnants of veal from the stewed shoulder into small squares. Rub a tablespoonful of butter into one of browned flour, mix this with the cupful of stock you have saved, and stir until boiling hot, in a saucepan. Chop the mushrooms left over from Tuesday, add these and two table- spoonfuls of tomato catsup to the stock, salt and pepper to taste, put in the veal, and stew gently ten minutes. Baked Hominy. See Chapter II. Baked Sweet Potatoes. See Chapter I. Stewed Pears with Rice. Peel a dozen small firm pears, lay them in a saucepan, and cqver them with half a cup of sugarSEPTEMBER. 121 and a cup of water. Stew gently until tender. Kemove the pears carefully, and boil down the syrup one half. Cook a cupful of rice in the or- dinary manner until it is nearly done, then drain off the water, and add milk. Spread this on a flat dish, sprinkle it plentifully with powdered sugar, and lay the pears on it, pouring the syrup over all. Set on the ice until very cold. FRIDAY. Boiled Blueflsh. Mashed Potatoes. Cauliflower au Gratin. Apple Dumplings. Boiled Bluefish. Secure the flsh neatly in a piece of cheesecloth. Have ready in a pot broad enough to hold the flsh without breaking, three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, half a small onion, chopped, and a blade of mace. Lay the fish in this, and add enough boiling water to cover it. Let this stand at the side of the stove half an hour; then bring to a boil, and cook for half an hour longer. Take out the fish, remove the cloth, and serve in a chafing dish, with a cup- ful of dra’^vn butter into which has been squeezed the juice of a lemon. Mashed Potato. See Chapter I.122 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Caulifiower au Gratin. Boil the cauliflower as directed in Chapter VIII. When it is done, cut the sprays apart and arrange them stem downward in a buttered pudding dish. Pour over them a cupful of drawn butter, pepper and salt, and sprinkle thickly with grated cheese. Set in a quick oven until lightly browned. Apple Dumplings. Four cups prepared flour. Two cups milk. Two tablespoonfuls mixed butter and lard. Pinch of salt. Six or eight fine ripe apples, peeled and cored. Sift and salt the flour, and rub in the shorten- ing. Make into a dough with the milk. Boll out about an inch thick, and cut into pieces about three inches square. In the centre of each lay two quarters of an apple, and sprinkle them with sugar. Fold the edges together, and lay the dumplings in a floured baking pan, the joined edges underneath. Bake a nice brown, and eat hot with either hard or liquid sauce. SATURDAY. Calf’s Head. String Beans Garnished with Brains. Mashed Potatoes. Peaches and Cream. English Pound Cake.SEPTEMBER. 123 Calf’s Head. Order a calf s lieM from your butcher, directing him to scald it and clean it thoroughly without removing the skin. Take out the tongue and brains, boil the former and parboil the latter. The tongue will make a nice relish for tea, served cold, or cut into dice and stewed in a little stock will make a savory breakfast stew. The brains must be put away to cool before serving them with the beans. To empty the head, it must have been split in two by your butcher. Tie the two sides together with a cord, put it into a pot and cover it with cold water. Salt slightly and stew slowly for two hours. Remove from the water, wipe off the head, rub it all over with beaten egg, and coat with crushed cracker crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt. Set in the oven, and after ten minutes baste with a cupful of the liquor in which it was cooked. Bake twenty min- utes longer, basting twice in that time. Thicken the gravy in the pan with browned flour, add a little chopped pickle and a couple of teaspoonfuls of good catsup or Worcestershire sauce. Pour around the calf’s head as it lies in the dish. It is an excellent plan to have the butcher re- move the teeth from the calf’s head, or to do this yourself after it is boiled and before putting it in the oven. String Beans Garnished with Brains. Prepare the string beans as directed in Chapter124 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. VIII. Heap in the middle of a dish and sur- round them with the brains. These must have been minced fine, seasoned with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, formed into small balls with the hands, rolled in beaten egg and cracker dust, and fried to a light brown. Mashed Potatoes. See previous directions. Chapter I. Peaches and Cream. See Chapter VIII. English Pound Cake. Six eggs. One cuj) butter. One cup granulated sugar. Two cups prepared flour. Cream the butter and sugar, beat the yolks of the eggs light, and stir into the butter and sugar, add the flour alternately with the whipped whites, and beat all hard for ten minutes. Bake in a well greased tin in a quick oven.CHAPTER X. OCTOBER. Stkict observance of the minutiae of neatness is necessary for comfort at the table. When the tablecloth is disfigured by a spot at a single place, this should be concealed by a clean napkin smoothly laid over the unlucky blemish. The knives should never be allowed to appear until all marks of acid, etc., have been polished from them. The silver should be bright, and the china and glass free not only from visible dirt, but from the slight roughness to the touch that indicates either want of thoroughness in the wiping or im- perfect cleanliness of the towel. The saltcellars should be emptied and refilled after every meal, or the top of each be pressed down, specks re- moved, and more salt put in to take the place of that removed at the last using. A custom pursued in some households is that of putting on the individual saltcellars empty, and passing around a larger one full of salt and furnished with a salt spoon. Each person is thus enabled to help himself to what he will need for his own wants. The small quantity of salt left in the little cellars may then be thrown away after each repast.126 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. That the people who gather about the board must be scrupulously neat in their personal ap- pearance should, one would think, go without saying. Still there are families where the father and sons sit down to dinner in their shirt-sleeves and with unwashed hands, and the mother and daughters come to breakfast without collars, and hair in curl papers or crimping pins. It is bad enough in men, but unpardonable in women. If bangs or frizzes are absolutely indispensable, let the hair be released from its bonds before each meal, and put up again afterwards. SUNDAY. Coddled Chickens. Rice Croquettes. Boiled Potatoes. Cold Slaw. Charlotte Russe. Coddled Chickens. Choose young, tender chickens, suitable for broiling. Split them down the back and lay them in a dripping pan. Dash a cupful of boil- ing water on them, turn a pan over them, and roast in the oven for half an hour. At the end of this time rub them over with butter, re-cover them for ten minutes, and baste again with the gravy in the pan. Rub them with butter once more in about five minutes, and then baste fre- quently with the pan gravy, keeping the fowls closely covered between times. Try them with a fork to see if they are tender. When done, theyOCTOBER. 127 should be a uniform, delicate brown. Dish and keep hot while boiling up the gravy, thickening it with a little browned flour, and seasoning it with minced parsley, salt, and pepper. Four half a cupful over the chickens, and serve the rest in a gravy boat. Boiled Potatoes. See Chapter III. Rice Croquettes. Two cups boiled rice. Two eggs. One teaspoonful sugar. Half teaspoonful salt. Butter the size of a walnut. Melt the butter, and work this, the eggs well beaten, and the salt and sugar, into the cold rice. Shape with the hands into croquettes, roll in flour, and fry in lard or nice dripping. Be care- ful not to make the mixture too stiff. Drain the croquettes in a hot colander, and serve them laid on a white napkin in a dish. Cold Slaw. One egg, the yolk only. One teaspoonful butter. Two teaspoonfuls sugar. One teaspoonful flour. One cup mild vinegar. If it is very sharp, dilute it with water. Salt and pepper to taste.128 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Heat the vinegar to boiling, add to it the sugar, salt, and pepper, and the butter rubbed smooth with the flour. Stir until it begins to thicken, put in the well beaten yolk of the egg, boil up once, and remove from the fire. Have ready in a dish the heart of a nice white cabbage, shredded fine with a sharp knife. Pour the hot dressing over this, mixing it in well with a fork, and set aside to become perfectly cold before sending it to table. Charlotte, Riisse. One quart whipped cream. Half box Coxe’s gelatine. Four eggs. Two cups milk. Two cups sugar. Two teaspoonfuls vanilla. Two dozen penny sponge cakes. Heat the milk to boiling with the sugar, in a farina kettle, dropping in a pinch of soda the size of a pea to prevent its curdling. Beat the eggs light and pour the hot milk upon them, a little at a time. Return all to the fire, and cook until the custard is set, stirring constantly and watching closely that it does not break. J ust before taking from the fire, add to it the gelatine, which should have been soaked tAvo hours in enough cold water to cover it. Let the custard become cool, and stir the whipped cream into it. Line a plain mould with the sponge cakes, split in two, the edges touching each other closely. Into the shape thus129 OCTOBER. formed pour the whipped cream and custard, and set on the ice until needed. Turn out on a flat dish just before eating. MONDAY. Chicken Melange Pie. Pried Oyster Plant. , Toasted Potatoes. Tomato Salad. Crackers and Cheese. Chicken Melange Pie. Boil six eggs hard and slice them. Cut all the meat from the bones of the chickens cooked Sun- day, making a gravy of the bones. In this stew half a dozen sweet potatoes cut in quarters. When they are tender, place a layer of these in the bottom of a greased pudding dish. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and place a layer of the chicken on top. Over this comes a stratum of hard-boiled eggs, followed by one of bacon, cut into very thin slices. ^Repeat the order of ingre- dients as long as they last, and cover all with a good plain crust, first pouring in all the gravy left from the chicken bones. Bake until the crust is done. Fried Oyster Plant. Scrape and wash the roots and boil until they are tender enough to be mashed with the back of a spoon. Work them into a paste with two eggs whipped light, a teaspoonful of butter, pepper and salt to taste, and a little milk. Mould into130 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. round cakes, dip in flour, and fry in boiling lard to a nice brown. Toasted Potatoes. Cut cold boiled potatoes into rather thick slices, and lay them between the sides of a small toaster. Brown on both sides over a good fire, lay on a hot dish, put a bit of butter on each, and sprinkle with pepper and salt. Tomato Salad. Peel large, fine tomatoes, and put them in a plate directly upon the ice. Leave them there at least two hours, and just before sending to table, cut them in quarters with a sharp knife. They should be chilled to the heart. Serve with a plain salad dressing of one teaspoonful sugar, one salt- spoonful each of salt and pepper, two tablespoon- fuls of oil, and four of vinegar. Crackers and Cheese. See Chapter I. TUESDAY. Broiled Chops an Pran9ais. Tomatoes and Com. Baked Sweet Potatoes. Pears, Apples, and Grapes. Broiled Chops au Frangais. Trim the fat and gristle from the chops, and broil them ten minutes over a hot fire, turning131 OCTOBER. them often, and watching that they do not smoke. Have ready a puree of potatoes, made of a cupful of mashed potatoes, beaten light with an egg, a teaspoonful of butter, half a cup of milk, and a sprinkling of salt and pepper. Lay the chops in a baking pan, and put a spoonful of the potato on top of each. Set in a quick oven long enough to brown the potato, and serve at once before it falls. Stewed Tomatoes and Corn. To two cups of stewed tomatoes add a cupful of boiled green corn, cut from the cob. Simmer together ten minutes, stir in a tablespoonful of butter, and season to taste. Baked Sweet Potatoes. Wash and wipe large sweet potatoes, lay them on the floor of the oven, and bake until soft. Serve in a napkin folded in a dish. Pears, Apples, and Grapes. Wipe pears and apples bright, and cleanse the grapes, if sticky or dusty, by plunging each bunch into cold water, and drying between the folds of a soft cloth. Arrange the fruit tastefully in a dish, and garnish with leaves or flowers. Provide each person with a plate, finger bowl, fruit napkin, fork, and spoon. WEDNESDAY. Curried Halibut. Boiled Rice. Spinach. Cabinet Pudding.132 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Curried Halibut. Three pounds halibut steaks, cut quite thin. Half an onion. One tablespoonful butter. Two teaspoonfuls curry powder. Juice of half a lemon. Half teacupful gravy or soup stock. Shred the onion, fry it brown in the butter in a saucepan, and stir in the curry powder. Cut the halibut steaks into pieces about three inches square, removing the skin and fat. Lay the fish in the saucepan with the curry powder, onions, and butter, pour over them the gravy, and let all simmer about fifteen minutes. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon just before serving. Boiled Rice. See Chapter IX. S2)inach. Wash the spinach very thoroughly and pick the leaves from the stems. Put on the fire in boiling water, slightly salted, and cook twenty minutes. Pemove from the fire, drain dry, and chop as fine as possible. Return to the saucepan with a table- spoonful of butter, pepper, salt, and a saltspoon- ful of nutmeg. Beat hard for two minutes, and serve in a very hot dish on slices of buttered toast.133 OCTOBER. Cabinet Pudding. Four cups fine bread crumbs. Three cups milk. Three eggs. Half cup sugar. Half cup seeded raisins. Half cup currants washed and dried. One teaspoonful vanilla. Let the bread soak in the milk while beating the eggs very light. Stir these into the bread and milk, with the sugar. Beat all together and add the vanilla and the currants and raisins, Avell dredged with flour. Turn immediately into a buttered brown bread mould or tin pail Avith a tightly-fitting top. Set in a pot of boiling Avater and boil steadily for an hour and a half. Turn out and eat hot, Avith hard sauce. THURSDAY. Potato Soup. Veal Olives. Puree of Turnips. Baked Potatoes. Orange Froth. Potato Soiqj. One dozen medium sized potatoes. One quart millc. Tavo teaspoonfuls butter. One tablespoonful flour. Salt and pepper. Half a small onion, minced. Small bunch of parsley, minced.134 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Boil the potatoes until mealy, rub them through a colander, and put back on the fire with the onion and parsley. Cook slowly for twenty minutes. Heat the milk to boiling in a farina kettle, and thicken it with the butter and flour rubbed to- gether. Pour the potatoes into the tureen, and stir the milk into them just before sending to table. Veal Olives. Three pounds veal cutlet, cut into slices about six inches long, by three wide. One pint oysters. One cup forcemeat, made of fine bread crumbs and a little fat salt pork minced very small, moist- ened with oyster liquor, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs. Spread each slice of veal with the forcemeat, lay a couple of small oysters, or a large one, in the centre, roll up the meat with the oyster in- side, and pin the roll with a small skewer. Lay them in a dripping pan, pour over them a cupful of boiling water in which has been melted a table- spoonful of butter, bake covered for an hour, bast- ing frequently with the gravy, uncover and brown. Keep the olives warm while you thicken the gravy with browned flour and season it with a couple of tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup. Pour the gravy around the olives in the dish.OCTOBER. 135 Puree of Turnips. Peel and slice half a dozen large white turnips. Boil them until soft enough to mash, rub them through a colander, and return to the fire. Beat into them a tablespoonful of melted butter, a table- spoonful of cream, and pepper and salt to taste. Serve very hot. Baked Potatoes. See Chapter II. Orange Froth. One box Coxe’s gelatine, soaked two hours in two cups cold water. Six small tart oranges. One cup and a half sugar. Four eggs, the whites only. Peel and squeeze the oranges and put rind, juice, and the sugar and soaked gelatine over the lire in a double boiler. When the two latter are dissolved, strain through a flannel into a dish to grow cool. When almost hard, beat into the jelly the whipped whites of the eggs, and beat until both are a stiff froth. Set to form in a plain mould, and when formed, heap by the spoonful in a glass dish. FRIDAY. * Baked Pickerel. Mashed Potatoes. Scalloped Tomatoes. Apple Pancakes.136 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Baked Pickerel. Select rather large fish, have them carefully scaled and cleaned, but do not remove the heads. Score the fish with a sharp knife on the sides and backs, and lay in a large dripping pan, pouring a cupful of boiling water over them. Bake slowly, covered, until tender, basting with butter and wa- ter five or six times. When the fish are done lay them in a hot dish and pour over them a sauce made of one cupful of milk, heated to boiling and thickened with two teaspoonfuls of corn- starch rubbed smooth with as much butter, a lit- tle chopped parsley, and pepper and salt at discre- tion. Mashed Potatoes. See Chapter I. Scalloped Tomatoes. Peel and slice fresh tomatoes and place a large layer of them in a baking dish, strewing them tliickly with bread crumbs, dotting with bits of butter, and sprinkling with pepper and salt. Al- ternate the strata in this style until the materials have all been used. Bake to a nice brown in a steady oven. Apple Pancakes. Four eggs. Four cups milk. Two cups prepared flour. One cup Cerealine Flakes. Saltspoonful salt.137 OCTOBER. Half cup powdered sugar. Twelve fine tart apples. Prepare the batter by adding the milk to the beaten yolks and stirring in the flour, Cerealine Flakes, and whipped whites alternately. Have ready the apples, peeled, cored, and cut into slices half an inch in thickness. Poll the slices in sugar until they are well coated; dip them into the batter so that they are thickly covered with it, and drop them, two or three at a time, into boiling lard. Drain in a colander and sift over them powdered sugar mixed with a little cinna- mon. Sauce for Pancakes. One cup boiling water. One cup sugar. One tablespoonful butter. Half teaspoonful cinnamon or nutmeg. Juice and grated rind of a lemon. Stir sugar and butter into the boiling water, and add the lemon and spice after taking it from the fire. SATURDAY. Beefsteak Pudding. Scalloped Potatoes. Creamed String Beans. Baked Pears and Cream. P>eefsteak Pudding. Four cups prepared flour. One cup cold water. Half cup suet.lo8 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Two pounds round steak, cut into pieces as for stewing. Pepper, salt, and catsup to taste. Free the suet from strings and rub it to powder. Chop it into the flour, add a pinch of salt, and work with the water into a paste just stiff enough to be handled. Line a round, plain bowl with this, first buttering the inside of the vessel. The paste should not be over an inch thick. Fill with the cut meat, sprinkling each layer with pepper and salt and dashes of catsup. Cover the top with a piece of pastry cut to fit it, pinching the edges of the pastry, lining and covering, closely together. Tie over all a good sized pudding cloth, floured liberally on the inside, and fastened se- curely, but not so tightly as to hinder the pastry’s swelling. Set the mould in a pot with enough boiling water to cover it well. Boil hard two hours, taking care that the water is filled up as fast as it boils away. When it is done, plunge it upside down for a second in cold water, untie the cloth, slip a dish carefully under the inverted mould and turn the pudding out upon it. Scalloped Potatoes. Into three cups of hot mashed potatoes, beat half a cup of milk, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one raw egg, and pepper and salt to taste. Fill a baking dish with this, sprinkle bread crumbs over the top, bake covered twenty minutes, uncover and brown.139 OCTOBER. Creamed String Beans. Drain the liquor from a can of string beans, cut them into inch long pieces, and stew fifteen min- utes in boiling water, to which has been added a pinch of salt. In another saucepan mix three tablespoonfuls of milk and one teaspoonful of cornstarch rubbed into a tablespoonful of butter. Add this, a little at a time, to a beaten egg, season with pepper and salt, return to the fire for three minutes and stir in a tablespoonful of scald- ing vinegar just before pouring over the drained beans, in a hot dish. Baked Pears. "Wipe large sweet pears and place them side by side, stems upward, in a pudding dish. Pour over them a cupful of boiling water, into which has been stirred a tablespoonful of sugar. Invert a pan over them and bake until the pears are ten- der. Let them become cool in the liquor, and serve them in a glass dish with the syrup poured over them. Eat with sugar and cream.CHAPTEE XI. NOVEMBER. In no department of the home are constant care and a high ideal more necessary than in what pertains to the eating room and hours of the family. In many households the meals are the only times when all the members are assembled, and the endeavor should be to make such seasons the bright spots of the day. Pleasant faces, an attractive table, neat serving, and well prepared food all bear their part in accomplishing this re- sult. The waiting may be of the simplest, but even if the cook must change the courses, she may don a white apron and cap for the task. When the work devolves upon members of the family, it should be performed as carefully as by professionals. Such experience will stand in good stead to sons and daughters when they have homes of their own. The routine may seem irk- some at first, but in tlie end it will prove easier than the “ higgledy-piggledy ” style of serving common in some homes. A few leading points should be clearly under- stood, both by professional and amateur waiters. Dishes must be passed on the left side, as the141 NOVEMBER. guest’s right hand is then free to help himself. Ill clearing the table, the large dishes should first be removed, next the plates, and last the smaller pieces, such as saltcellars, cruets, etc. A folded napkin is better for crumbing the cloth than a brush, as the latter soon becomes unpleasantly soiled. Every vestige of the earlier courses should be banished before the dessert is placed on the table. The sweets of the meal will be enjoyed better if there are no remnants of the preceding viands in the shape of crumbs and scraps, or worst of all, soiled knives, forks, and plates. SUNDAY. Braised Veal with Tomato Sauce. Boiled Potatoes. Sliced Beets. Succotash. Almond Tapioca Custard. Almond Cream Cake. Braised Veal. Order from the butcher a breast of veal, or as it is sometimes called, a “ pocket ” of veal, in which there is left a cavity for stuffing. Fill this with a forcemeat of finely chopped salt pork and bread crumbs, well seasoned with pepper, salt, a very little onion, and sweet herbs. Lay in a drip- ping pan, pour over it a large cup of boiling water, cover with another pan and bake slowly, about fifteen minutes to the pound. Baste once or twice and turn the meat over when it is about half142 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. cooked. When done, transfer it to a hot dish, cool the gravy by setting it in cold water, skim, heat again to boiling, add half the liquor drained from a can of tomatoes, and thicken with browned flour. Gravies for roasts of all kinds should in- variably be thus thickened. The practice of using uncooked flour for this purpose is unpleasantly common, and should be avoided by all who aspire to really dainty and savory cookery. Not only is the appearance of the gravy affected, but the taste as well. It is easy to brown a good quantity of flour at a time, and keep it on hand in a glass jar or tin box with a closely fitting top. Boiled Potatoes. See Chapter III. Sliced Beets. Wash carefully and boil for an hour. Scrape the skin off, slice thin, and pour over them a tablespoonful of melted butter, two tablespoon- fuls of vinegar, and pepper and salt to taste. Serve either very hot or very cold. Succotash. Eight ears of corn. One cup and a half of shelled Lima beans. Boil the beans half an hour in slightly salted water. Cut the corn from the cob, add to the beans, and stew gently half an hour longer. Drain off the water and pour in half a cupful of boiling143 NOVEMBER. milk into which has been stirred two teaspoon- fuls of butter rubbed into as much flour. Season, cook fifteen minutes longer, and serve. This dish can be made with canned corn and beans, but the fresh will be found more palatable. In either case serve very hot. Almond Tapioca Custard. One cup pearl tapioca, soaked in a cup and a half of cold water. One pint milk. Four eggs. One cup sugar. Two teaspoonfuls vanilla flavoring. Quarter of a pound of shelled almonds, blanched and chopped very fine. Soak the tapioca over night in the water. Heat the milk in a double boiler with a tiny pinch of soda. Add to it the soaked tapioca, and simmer until this is tender. Beat the yolks of the eggs light with the sugar, stir into it the boiling tap- ioca by cautious degrees, and return to the fire. Cook until the custard has a creamy look and taste, which should be in about ten minutes. Turn out into a bowl, and when cool stir in the flavoring and the almonds. Just before it is to be eaten, whip the whites of the eggs to a me- ringue with a little powdered sugar and heap upon the top of your custard144 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Almond Cream Cake. Two cups sugar. Half cup butter. Four eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately and very light. Three cups prepared flour. One cup cold water. One lemon, the juice and grated peel. Cream the butter and sugar, add the lemon, the yolks of the eggs, the water, flour, and the whites. Beat hard and bake in jelly cake tins. Filling. One cup milk. Three teaspoonfuls cornstarch. One egg. Half a cup sugar. Half a cup almonds, shelled, blanched, and chopped fine. One teaspoonful vanilla. Heat the milk to boiling, thicken with the corn- starch wet in a little cold milk, pour upon the whipped yolk of the egg and sugar, and cook all together for ten minutes. Take from the fire, and wdien cool, add the flavoring and the almonds. Spread thickly between the layers of cake. A simple icing may be made by beating the re- served whites up with powdered sugar and a little lemon juice or bitter almond flavoring.145 NOVEMBER. See Chapter I. MONDAY. Veal Pate. Baked Potatoes. Scalloped Tomatoes. Fruit. Veal Pate. One small cupful rice. One egg. Half cupful milk. Kemains of cold veal, chopped. Gravy left from yesterday. Boil the rice in plenty of water at breakfast time, and when cold, work to a stiff paste with the milk and the beaten egg. With this line a well greased brown bread mould, or if this is not available, a small tin pail, and fill the centre with the chopped meat moistened with gravy and well seasoned. The stuffing will make a pleasant ad- dition. Spread more of the rice on the top, fasten on a tight cover, and boil hard for an hour and a half. Turn out and pour the remains of your sauce or gravy about the base of the pate. A good gravy may be made out of the bones from which the veal has been cut. These may cook at the side of the stove, as may the pot containing the mould, without interfering with the boiler. Baked Potatoes. See Chapter II. Scalloped Tornadoes.146 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Fruit. In the busy households, where every added item of work ou Monday is a burden, a dish of grapes and pears, or even of apples, will prove the easiest dessert. Nowadays, when pretty Jap- anese finger bowls can be purchased at twenty and twenty-five cents apiece, one can easily get a harlequin collection that will cost less than a more pretentious set and be fully as ornamental. The Japanese paper mats, selling at fifty cents a dozen, make excellent doilies, and if carefully handled will last for some time. TUESDAY. Salmon au Gratin. Mashed Potatoes. Stewed IMacaroni. Celery. Boiled Chestnuts. Salmon au Gratin. One can salmon. One cup drawn butter. Pine bread crumbs. Pick the salmon to pieces A\dth a fork, carefully removing the bone, and stir into it the drawn but- ter. Season to taste, add the juice of half a lemon, and pour into a buttered pudding dish. Cover with the crumbs, and bake covered ten minutes. Uncover and brown. Pass sliced lemon with this. Mashed Potato. See Chapter I.147 NO V EMBER. Stewed Macaroni. The best variety of macaroni to use is the spa- ghetti, a size between the pipe and the vermicelli. Break half a pound of this into inch lengths, thus simplifying its management for the eaters, and put it into salted hot water. Boil half an hour, or until tender. Drain in a colander, pour into a dish, and stir into it a tablespoonful of butter melted in hot milk and two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. Set in the oven a few minutes before sending it to the table. Celery. Wash and pick over carefully, selecting the whitest and freshest pieces. Send to table in a celery dish, or a high goblet, with ice about the celery. Pretty, long, shallow dishes are now sold for this use. Boiled. Chestnuts. This is an easy dish for ironing day, and to most people a pleasant one. Boil the chestnuts until tender, drain dry, moisten with a little melted butter, and sprinkle with salt. Serve piping hot. A good cup of tea is a refreshing adjunct to Tuesday’s dinner. WEDNESDAY. iMutton Chops with Eggs. Potato Puff. Baked Sweet Potatoes. Bread and Apple Pudding.148 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Mutton Chops with Eggs. For this dish the dainty French chops that are at once so delicious and so expensive need not be used. The large chops, coming farther down the leg and resembling cutlets, are quite as good. Beat them hard with the flat of a hatchet, crush- ing the bones, and dip each chop first into beaten egg and then into cracker crumbs. Have ready plenty of boiling hot dripj)ing in a frying pan. Test it with a piece of bread, and if this browns almost instantly the fat is in proper condition. Fry the chop a good brown, remove with a skim- mer and place on a hot platter. Fry an egg for every chop and lay one on each piece of meat. Potato Puff. See Chapter IV. Baked Sweet Potatoes. See Chapter X. Bread and Apple Pudding. Cut enough slices of stale bread to All a baking dish, trimming the crust from each piece. Butter the slices lightly, place a layer of them in the bottom of a greased j)udding dish, and moisten them with milk. Spread thickly with apple sauce, sprinkle with sugar, and then repeat the layer of bread. Continue thus until the dish is full, mak- ing bread the last layer. Bake covered half an hour, draw to the door of the oven, and heap on it149 NO VEMBER. a meringue made of the whites of egg saved from the potato puff, beaten up with a little sugar. Brown lightly and eat cold with sugar and cream. THURSDAY. Corned Beef. Stuffed Potatoes. Creamed Cold Slaw. Bice Croquettes, with Jelly Sauce. Corned Beef. Select a “plate ” piece, if you like the alternate layers of fat and lean. Soak overnight in cold water. Boil it slowly, about twenty minutes to the pound. For sauce, make drawn butter as directed in Chapter II. Stuffed Potatoes. See Chapter II. Creamed Cold Slaiv. Half a firm white cabbage. Two teaspoonfuls butter. One cup vinegar. Half cup milk. One egg. One teaspoonful flour. One tablespoonful sugar. Heat the vinegar to scalding, and add the sugar and seasoning. Stir into this the cabbage and take from the stove. In another vessel heat the milk and thicken it with the flour rubbed smooth150 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. witli the butter. Pour this on the egg, whipped light, return to the tire and cook five minutes and pour over the cabbage. Mix thoroughly. Eat very cold. Rice Croquettes. Two cupfuls cold boiled rice. One egg. Two teaspoOnfuls sugar. Two teaspoonfuls butter. Beat the egg, whipped light with the sugar and butter, into the rice, guarding carefully against lumps. Shape the mixture into croquettes by rolling between the floured hands. Coat with flour. Make them some hours before they are needed, that they may be firm. Fry in very hot dripping, lay in a colander, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. Jelly Sauce. Half small cup of boiling water. Half cup currant or other tart jelly. Two teaspoonfuls cornstarch. One tablespoonful butter. Wet up the cornstarch with a little cold water and stir into the boiling water. Cook until it thickens, and add the butter. Beat in the jelly, and pour over the croquettes. FRIDAY. White Soup. Baked Cod with Cheese. Mashed Potato. Pea Pancakes. Nuts and Baisins.151 NO VEMBER. White Soiq). Skim all grease from the liquor in which the corn beef was boiled, and clear it by heating to a boil and breaking into it the white and shell of an egg. Boil up hard and strain. Return to the stove, and when it is once more boiling, stir in a couple of tablespoonfuls of cornstarch rubbed smooth in a cupful of milk. Dip out a little of the soup, and pour it on two beaten eggs, doing this carefully, to avoid curdling them. Pour these into the rest of the soup, add a good hand- ful of chopped parsley, and send to the table. This will be found a cheap and palatable soup. The liquor will be too salt, however, unless the corned beef is soaked before cooling. Baked Cod with Cheese. Soak over night a piece of salt cod. In the morning, pick to pieces, removing all bits of skin or bone. Heat a cup of milk to boiling, and thicken with two teaspoonfuls of cornstarch rubbed into a tablespoonful of butter. When the gravy is smooth and thick, add the flaked cod. Let this become thoroughly heated, and pour into a greased baking dish. Strew the top thickly with grated cheese, and brown in the oven. Mashed Potato may be prepared as directed in Chapter I., taking care to prepare a larger amount than is needed for the day.152 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS, Pea Pancakes. Make according to directions given in Chapter II. Nuts and Raisins. Hickory nuts, walnuts, butternuts, almonds, fil- berts, etc., are apt to be cheap and plenty at this time of year. They make a good dessert balanced by a dish of raisins. SATURDAY. Scalloped Beef. Mashed Turnips. Buttered Sweet Potatoes. Soft Gingerbread. Scalloped Beef. Chop the remains of your corned beef fine, as for hash, put into a greased pudding dish, and moisten with gravy or drawn butter, into which has been stirred a good teaspoonful of Worcester- shire sauce. Be very careful that the mince is not too dry. Spread over the top a thick layer of mashed potato which has been softened by the addition of half a cupful of milk, a beaten egg, and a tablespoonful of butter. Salt and pepper to taste. Bake covered twenty minutes, and then brown. Mashed Turnip)s. Drop, after ])ee]ing and slicing, into cold water, to prevent their blackening. Put over the fire in slightly salted boiling water, and stew gently until soft. Drain dry, mash smooth, and returnNOVKMBEIi. 153 to the pot with a spoonful of butter and season- ing to taste. Eat very hot. Buttered Sweet Potatoes. Boil the potatoes in their skins until soft. Peel them and slice them lengthwise, butter liberally, lay in a hot dish, and set them in the oven for two minutes before sending them to the table. Soft Gingerbread. Two cups flour. Half cupful sugar. Half cupful flour. One cupful sour milk or cream. Butter the size of an egg. One teaspoonful cinnamon. One teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little boil- ing water, and stirred into the milk. Cream the butter and sugar, stir in the mo- lasses, spice, the milk and soda, last of all the flour. Beat very hard for five minutes, and bake in a large card. Eat warm, and break, instead of cutting it.CHAPTER XII. FOR CHRISTMAS WEEK. As the Christmas season approaches, the thoughts of the housekeeper turn towards the preparation of those dainties which seem to be- long jpar excellence to the holiday time. It is the period for social reunion, for unbending from the cares and dignities wRich cumber the rest of the year, and yielding mind and body to the genial relaxation that restore even to the most hlase something of the freshness of youth. In view of the entertainments generally given during the holiday week, it is thought wdse to present directions for the Christmas feast, and hints as to the concoction of pretty dishes for the little gatherings that are apt to take place be- tween Christmas and Xew Year’s Day, with one or two suggestions as to such assemblies that may possibly prove useful. In the rural districts, out-door sports are prac- ticable in winter as in summer. Indeed, except in the centre of large cities, there are few places where coasting parties are impossible. Whether the sleds used are the toboggans of the far North, the “ double rippers ” of New England, or theFOR CHRISTMAS WEEK. 155 bob ” sleds of the Middle States, the fun and ex- citement are the same. Such expeditions should not be too large, and their members should be judiciously chosen. Twenty is an ample number, and among these there should be no one so tena- cious of his dignity or so averse to frolic as to mind a tumble in the snow. From such assem- blies should be rigorously excluded the practical joker, who is not happy unless he is making some of his fellow creatures uncomfortable by well- directed snowballs, or by upsetting a loaded sled. The fun over, every one is usually supplied with a hearty appetite, demanding something more substantial than the coffee and cake that serve very well at a home reception. A delicious supper may be provided by those living near enough the seashore to procure shell fish at rea- sonable rates, by having an oyster roast when the coasters return to the home of their host. The preparations for this are simple. An open fire- place and a bed of glowing coals, or a stove with the ovens well heated, are essential. The shell oysters, carefully washed, are brought in by the basketful and laid among the coals or on the oven floor. When the heat opens the shell, the contents are done. The shell is wrenched in two by a stout knife, the oyster treated with a little pepper, salt, and a dash of lemon juice, and is ready for eating. A good plan is for each man to open the oysters for himself and Iris' partner at the supper table. They must be eaten very hot.156 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. as soon as possible after they are drawn from the fire, and accompanied by crackers, or bread and butter and coffee. Cake and fruit may finish the repast, if desired, but they are not absolutely nec- essary. Oysters must be provided in generous measure, for the exercise in the frosty air devel- ops astonishing appetites. In the regions where sledding and skating frol- ics are out of the question, there may still be much amusement found within doors. The old- fashioned parties, where the elders played cards, the juniors amused themselves with such games as Twenty Questions, Dumb Crambo, and even Fox and Geese and Blind Man’s Buff, winding up, perhaps, with a Virginia reel, in which all took part, still have for their admirers those who do not care for round dances and who wear}^ of whist and progressive euchre. At such a gather- ing as this, it is pleasant to have refreshments of a rather different variety from the stereotyped salads and ices of a more conventional assembly. Where there is an ojDen fire, chestnuts may be roasted and corn popped, while cracked hickory nuts and butternuts, sandwiches, turnovers and gingerbread, doughnuts and crullers, apples and cider, with perhaps a pot of hot coffee or choco- late, may make up the rest of the supper. A ])leasant and inexpensive form of entertain- ment is furnished by candy parties. These may be of two kinds. The first and time-honored method involves more work, but has its advan-157 FOR CHRISTMAS WEEK. tages. Nearly every one is familiar, by hearsay, at least, with the candy pull, where the molasses must be brought to the right consistency over the fire, then poured into great buttered platters and left to partially cool, and finally, by dint of dex- terous and vigorous manipulations with greased or floured hands brought to a state of creamy white brittleness. Variety may be produced by converting some into taffy and stirring into this the kernels of peanuts, walnuts, or hickory nuts. While the cooking is going on, chocolate cara- mels may be made in another vessel, and, the sticky part of the fun over, the party may take themselves, with what appetites they have left, to a pretty little supper of salads or croquettes, rolls, ice cream, cake, and coffee. The same style of supper is admirable for a French candy party, a much cooler form of enter- tainment. At this, the materials needed are con- fectioners’ sugar mixed with white of egg and cold water in equal parts to a consistency that will permit the compound to be handled. Stoned dates and raisins, carefully shelled English wal- nuts, blanched almonds, and crystallized fruits of different kinds must also be provided. In mak- ing cream almonds or walnuts, the sugar mixture is shaped by the fingers into small oblong balls, and each of these placed between two halves of the kernel. Cream raisins, figs, dates, and al- monds may be prepared in the same manner, and will be found delicious. An almost endless assort-158 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. ment of fancy candies may be made in this style, variety being gained by the use of different fla- vorings, colorings, and fruits or nuts. To secure real enjoyment at parties of any sort, whether held in the holidays or at other times, the hostess should guard against overtaxing her strength or her pocket. The simplest form of entertainment is preferable to an elaborate one which must be paid for later by worn nerves or an exhausted purse. With care and judgment, extravagance may be avoided and a pleasant re- sult yet obtained. Make the house gay with Christmas greens, have a cordial welcome ready for guests, give them of the best of yourself and of your belongings, and it will be a difficult visitor who will not thoroughly enjoy the party, be it what style it may. This caution is especially necessary to young housekeepers who have planned family reunions for Christmas Hay. In their desire to have every- thing as it should be, they are apt to wear them- selves out. Let them avoid too much ambition and try only such dishes as they are sure of. A lengthy course dinner is not the ideal Christmas feast. Have an abundant supply of good food, in- cluding such traditional dainties as turkey, cran- berry sauce, and mince pie, but reserve fussy cro- quettes, uncertain jellies, and anxiety-provoking entrees for some other time. The table should be shining with tlie best china, glass, and silver, and bright with flowers, evergreen, or holly. The159 FOR CHRISTMAS WEEK. dishes should be garnished with parsley, and their contents served hot. After a hearty dinner of this kind, supper is a mere form, and may consist of tea, bread and butter, and perhaps a little cake or sweetmeats. Christmas Dinner. Oyster Soup. Eoast Turkey with Oyster Stuffing. Baked Sweet Potatoes. Mashed Potato. Cauliflower. Celery. Cranberry Jelly. Mince Pie. Cheese. Fruit. Nuts. Coffee. Oyster Soup. Two quarts oysters. One pint water. One quart milk. Three dessertspoonfuls butter. One dessertspoonful cornstarch. A pinch mace. Pepper and salt to taste. Strain the oysters out of the liquor and place this over the fire with the water. Let it heat slowly to a boil. At this stage add the seasoning and the oysters. Cook these until the edges be- come crimped. Have ready in a double boiler the milk, into which has been stirred the butter rubbed smooth with the cornstarch. Pour this upon the stewed oysters, stir well, and serve. Guard against over-cooking the oysters. Five160 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. minutes should bring them to the proper state, but a few minutes’ added cooking renders them tough and tasteless. Roast Turkey. In choosing your fowl, be careful that your poulterer does not palm off a last season’s bird upon you instead of the tender yearling which should occupy the place of honor at the Christmas feast. Wash out the inside of the turkey with soda and water before stuffing him. Prepare a dressing of bread crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little thyme, and moistened with melted butter. Chop fine about twenty small oysters and add them to your stuffing. Stuff both body and breast with this. Bind the limbs of the fowl closely to the body with stout string, tucking the gizzard under one wing, the liver under the other. Lay the turkey in the dripping pan and pour a couple of teacupfuls of hot water around him. Boast slowly, but steadily, basting frequently with butter and water until a good gravy is formed, and then using that. Allow from ten to twelve minutes a pound if the fowl is a young one, but fifteen if it is tough. Should it brown too rapidly, cover it with greased paper. When it is done, remove it to a hot platter, let the gravy in the pan boil up, and thicken with browned flour. A pleasant addition may be made bj^ add- ing half a can of mushrooms, chopped. Serve the gravy separatel3^161 FOR CHRISTMAS WEEK. Mashed Potato. Prepare according to directions given in Chap- ter I. Baked Sweet Potatoes. Wash clean, wipe, and bake in their jackets. Serve wrapped in a napkin. Cauliflower. Pull off the outer leaves and cut the stalk off close. Tie up the cauliflower in a piece of mos- quito net or thin cheese cloth, put into twice as much salted boiling water as will cover it, drop in a piece of charcoal to absorb the odor, and boil fast until tender. Another excellent precaution against the cabbage smell that accompanies this delicious vegetable is that of placing a small tin of boiling vinegar upon the stove at the same time. One odor seems to neutralize the other. Cook the cauliflower uncovered. When done, remove the netting, lay in a deep dish, and pour over it a sauce made of one good tablespoonful of butter rolled in two teaspoonfuls of flour and stirred into a cup of boiling milk. Cook in a double boiler until it thickens, and add a little finely shredded parsley. Celery. Wash and separate, laying aside the outer stalks and reserving only the blanched ones for present use. The others are very nice stewed or in soup, but are out of place for eating aii naturel.162 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Stand or lay the selected pieces in a celery glass or dish and place a few bits of cracked ice about them. Cranberry Jelly. One quart cranberries. One teacujDful water. Sugar to taste. Cook the cranberries until tender, stirring often. When they are of the consistency of marmalade, take from the fire. Sweeten, and strain without squeezing through a jelly bag. Set to form in a mould in a cold place, and turn out just before sending to table. Mince Pie {Pastry'). One pound flour. One quarter pound lard. One half pound butter. One half pint ice water. Chop the lard into the sifted flour until it is thoroughly incorporated. Add ice water to make a stiff dough that can be easily managed. Roll out thin with few strokes and dot the sheet thickly with bits of butter. Make into a close roll, flatten it a little on the board, roll out thin, and repeat the buttering process. Continue this treat- ment until the butter is all used, handling the dough as little as possible. Butter the pie plates, fit each with a bottom crust, fill with mince meat, and cover the top with narrow strips of paste laid on in a lattice-work pattern. Sift powdered sugar163 FOR CHRISTMAS WEEK. over each pie before sending to table. It is advis- able to make the paste a little while before it is needed and leave it in the cold for a couple of hours before putting it into the plates. Cider Mince Meat. Three pounds peeled and chopped apples. One pound lean boiled beef, minced fine. One half pound powdered suet. One pound seeded raisins. Half pound sultana raisins. One pound currants. Both these and the sultana raisins must be care- fully washed and picked over, the former being passed through three or four waters. One quarter pound shred citron. One tablespoonful cinnamon. One tablespoonful mace. Half tablespoonful each of cloves, allspice, and salt. One pound and a half sugar. One quart good cider. klake the mince meat several days before it is to be used. Add the cider last of all, and set the crock containing the compound in a large kettle of hot water. Bring this to a boil at the side of the stove, stirring the mince meat two or three times that it may become heated through. Keep the pot at a steady boil for four or five hours, re- newing the hot water as it evaporates, and then let it cool gradually. It is a good plan to cook164 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. it in the afternoon and leave it on the range all night. By this means the temperature is lowered gradually. When it is really cool, cover the crock closely and set it aside in a cold place. By this process all danger of spoiling is avoided, and the mince meat will, if proj)erly prepared, keep all winter. Cheese is not only an agreeable accompaniment to mince pie, but is also said to assist in its diges- tion. Fruit and Nuts. A dish of apples, oranges, bananas, and white grapes, and one of mixed filberts, almonds, and pecans, or better still, cracked hickory nuts, wal- nuts, and butternuts, make a pleasant finale to the Christmas dinner. Coffee Should be very strong, allowing half a pint of really good coffee to a quart of boiling water. It may be drunk black, or with cream, as preferred. FOR CHRISTMAS PARTIES. Salads. Oyster Salad. One quart oysters. One small bunch celery. One raw egg. Yolks of two hard boiled eggs. Two tablespoonfuls best olive oil. One teaspoonful sugar.FOR CHRISTMAS WEEK. 165 One saltspoonful each of pepper, salt, and made mustard. Half cupful vinegar. Whip the raw eggs light with the sugar and the oil. Kub the yolks of the boiled eggs to a paste with the salt, pepper, and mustard, add the beaten raw egg and oil and beat in the vinegar, a few drops at a time. Drain the liquor from the oys- ters and cut them with a sharp knife into small pieces. Cut the celery into half inch lengths. Chopping bruises it. Put oysters and celery into a salad dish, mix with it half of the dressing, and pour the rest over it. Garnish with celery tops and stoned olives. Mayonnaise Dressing. For a large party, provide at the rate of one egg to every four persons. Free the yolks carefully from the whites, and set the latter aside to be used in meringue, icing, or ice-cream. Beat the oil into the yolks, in the proportion of six table- spoonfuls to each yolk, putting in at first only a drop or two at a time. By diligent beating, the dressing will begin to thicken in about ten min- utes. After this the oil may be added a little more rapidly, still taking care, however, to mix each addition of oil thoroughly into the egg be- fore pouring in any more. When the dressing becomes so thick that it is difficult to beat, “ cut it" with a little vinegar, and then proceed with the use of the oil. Great judgment must be ob-166 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. served in adding vinegar, as too much thins the dressing and deprives it of that creamy thickness which should be the distinguishing characteristic of mayonnaise. Many prefer to use lemon juice rather than vinegar. At the last add salt and a little red pepper cautiously. This dressing is delicious for nearly all kinds of salad. Celery Salad. Cut the celery into half inch lengths, moisten with a little vinegar, and pour over it mayonnaise dressing. Serve immediately, as it withers soon in the vinegar. Canned Chicken Salad. When fowls are expensive, really good chicken salad may be made from the canned chicken or turkey that comes at fifty cents a box. Cut the chicken into small pieces with a knife. Never chop it. Mix with this an equal quantity of cut celery. Moisten with vinegar, season with pep- per and salt, and stir into it a dozen olives, stoned and minced fine. Prepare a mayonnaise dressing, and about half an hour before the supper stir half of it into the salad. Arrange the salad in the dish from which it is to be served in the midst of a nest of lettuce leaves. Pour the remaining dressing over the top and garnish with celery tops and lettuce-centres.167 FOR CHRISTMAS WEEK. Shrimp Salad. This may be made either of the canned or fresh shrimps. If the latter are used, the shells must be cracked and the meat picked out carefully. In either case they must be cut rather fine with a sharp knife. Heap upon crisp lettuce leaves and pour over them a mayonnaise dressing, made ac- cording to the receipt given above. Oyster Croquettes. One quart small oysters, minced fine. One half pint cream. One large tablespoonful butter rubbed into two teaspoonfuls cornstarch. Pinch of soda added to the cream. Pepper, salt, and lemon juice to taste. Heat the cream and soda to scalding in a double boiler and add the butter and cornstarch. While the sauce cooks, stir constantly. When smooth and thick put in the oysters and seasoning. Ho not leave on the fire more than five minutes. Set the mixture aside to cool, and when perfectly cold and stiff form with floured hands into croquettes. Let these stand in a cool place three or four hours before cooking, that they may be firn;. At the last, dip into raw egg and roll in fine cracker crumbs. Fry in boiling fat, drain dry in a colan- der, and serve laid on a napkin.168 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Crullers. Half pound butter. Three quarters of a pound powdered sugar. Six eggs. Cinnamon and mace to taste. Enough flour to make a stiff paste. Cream butter and sugar, beat the eggs light, white and yolks separately, and stir all, together; add spices and flour. Eoll out thin, and cut into fancy shapes. Have plenty of boiling lard ready in a deep frying pan and try it with a piece of the dough. It should rise from the bottom imme- diately and brown quickly. As each is done take it from the fat with a split spoon and lay it in a colander at tlie side of the stove. Sprinkle the crullers with powdered sugar while still warm. Banana Cake. Three tablespoonfuls butter. Two cups sugar. Yolks of flve eggs and the whites of three. One cup cold water. Three cups prepared flour. One lemon, the grated peel and juice. Cream the butter and sugar, add the yolks of the eggs, beaten light, the w'ater, lemon juice and rind, and last the whites and flour. Bake in jelly cake tins. Filling. Sliced bananas. One cup powdered sugar.FOR CHRISTMAS WEEK. 169 Whites of two eggs. Juice and grated rind of a lemon. Beat the whites and sugar together, and very- light. Spread on each layer, and place over it the banana, cut in thin slices, the pieces joining each other closely. Sprinkle each layer with the lemon juice and a little of the grated peel. Ice the top of the cake. Cocoanut Cake. This may be made in the same manner as the banana cake, only omitting the lemon juice alto- gether and substituting grated cocoanut for the sliced banana. Ice Cream. In these days of many confectioners, it is often easier and cheaper in the city to buy ice cream than to make it. In country towns, however, or in families who have plenty of milk and ice at their disposal, this is not the case. The inexperi- enced are apt to shrink in dread from such an un- dertaking, but it really involves very little more labor than the preparation of elaborate jellies, and is certainly less trouble than the making of really good [)ies. A freezer is necessary, of course, and there are many patents on the market from which one can choose. If a good one is selected, the work of freezing will not be heavy, provided the ice is broken sufficiently fine and the rock salt is used freely.170 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Macaroon Ice Cream. One quart cream. One quart fresh milk. Half box gelatine. Four cups sugar. One tablespoonful vanilla essence. One pound macaroons. Soak the gelatine for two hours in barely enough water to cover it. Heat a pint of the milk scald- ing hot, but do not let it boil. Pour over the gelatine and dissolve it and then strain into the cream. Add the rest of the milk, the sugar, and flavoring. When about two thirds frozen, open the freezer and add the whites of the eggs beaten stiff, and the macaroons crushed to a powder with a rolling pin. Freeze solid and turn out. Tutti Frutti Ice Cream. One quart cream. Two quarts fresh milk. Eight eggs. Four cups sugar. Half pound mixed crystallized fruits cut very small. Quarter pound raisins, stoned and halved. Quarter pound citron, minced fine. Half pound almonds, cracked, blanched, and minced. Half cup sherry wine. Make a rich custard of the milk, sugar, and yolks of eggs. When perfectly cold, add theFOR CHRISTMAS WEEK. 171 cream and freeze partially. When nearly solid, add the whipped whites, the fruit and almonds, and the wine. Freeze solid. This will be found very delicious and not at all difficult to prepare.CHAPTER XIII. CHEAP MUTTON AND BEEF. The popular belief that palatable results can only be evolved from choice materials is a time- honored fallacy. Like some other ancient opin- ions, however, it is high season that it was swept out of the way, and that housekeepers of mod- erate means understood that dainty cooker}^ and a limited purse are not incompatible. Instead of burdening their incomes and the butcher’s con- science by paying exorbitant amounts for so-called “choice cuts,” why do they not boldly face the situation and pay lower prices for pieces of meat which, while sold under less high-sounding titles, are frequently fac-similes of those same “ best ” pieces ? The hackneyed jokes upon ram, lamb, sheep, and mutton, the indifferent quality of the mutton oc- casionally furnished, and, above all, carelessness in cooking it, have resulted in creating in the minds of many people a well-founded prejudice against this meat. In the South, especially, where through the heedlessness or ignorance of the butcher the wool is sometimes permitted to come in con- tact with the flesh and taint it, there are num-CUEAP MUTTON AND BEEF. 173 bers of tables where it is never seen. The distaste once established is not readily shaken off, and thus one of the most wholesome, and, if properly prepared, most appetizing articles of diet is pro- scribed. The chief cause, however, for the lack of taste for mutton arises from the fact that it is seldom prepared properly or served smoking hot. A leg of mutton or lamb may be good cold, but a chop, a stew, or a mince is detestable when served in a pool of congealed gravy. Few things possess more disagreeably adhesive qualities than cold mutton fat, and the person who has once known the sensation of having tongue and teeth coated with it is not desirous to repeat the ex- perience. A chafing dish is almost an essential for preparations of mutton. Well seasoned, properly cooked, and served hot, they offer in themselves the strongest argument in their own favor that can be desired. The concoction of these, as of all made dishes, requires care and judgment; but when these are duly given, the results are suffi- ciently savory to afford recompense for the pains. Mutton Cutlets au Fromage. Two pounds of cutlets taken from near the neck and cut not more than half an inch thick. Two eggs beaten light. Half a cup very fine bread crumbs. Half a cup grated cheese. Quarter of a can of tomatoes.174 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Trim all fat from the cutlets, dip them in the beaten egg and then into the bread crumbs and cheese. Drop into boiling lard or dripping and fry quickly to a nice light brown. Stew the to- matoes until tender, with half an onion, rub through a colander, season, return to the fire, thicken with a little browned flour, and pour over the cutlets. Mutton Rechauffe. From a cold roast or boiled leg of mutton cut neat slices, about an eighth of an inch thick. Have ready an egg beaten light and stir into it a tea- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Dip each slice in this, then roll in cracker crumbs and fry quickly. Serve very hot, in a chafing dish if possible, and garnish with Saratoga potatoes. Or, you may make a mound of mashed potato in the middle of the dish and arrange the slices of mut- ton about it. A sauce of drawn butter will be found an improvement. h'ish Stew. Three pounds of lean mutton cut into pieces not more than two inches square. Stew the meat gently in enough cold water to cover it, until it is tender; remove from the fire, strain off the gravy, and set it in a cool place to allow the fat to rise to the top. Skim off every particle of this, and return the gravy to the stove ; season it to taste with a little chopped onion and herbs, and put the meat into it together with a175 CHEAP MUTTON AND BEEF. dozen potatoes, which have been parboiled and sliced; cook fifteen minutes and serve very hot. By allowing the gravy to cool and removing the tallowy cake that rises to the top, the disagree- able, oleaginous taste will be avoided, and a very different dish will be evolved from that which usually figures under the name of Irish Stew. Braised Shoulder of Mutton. Have the bones removed from the shoulder by the butcher; lay the meat flat, spread it with a force - meat made of chopped salt pork, bread crumbs, a very little minced onion, and a small allowance of thyme and sweet majoram. Moisten the mixture with a couple of teaspoonfuls of catsup or Worcestershire sauce. Roll the meat tightly, secure it with strings, and put it over the fire in a broad pot. Dash over it two cup- fuls of boiling water, cover closely, and cook slowly for two hours, turning it once. When tender, place in a hot dish and set in a warm spot. Cool the gravy by setting it in cold water, re- move the fat, return to the fire, and thicken with browned flour. Pepper and salt to taste, and add to it a cupful of tomatoes stewed soft and rubbed through a colander. Boil up once and pour over the mutton. Barbecued Mutton. Pry generous slices of cold mutton in a little butter or bacon dripping. Remove to a chafing dish when done, and add to the gravy in the fry-176 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. ing pan two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one salt- spoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of made mus- tard, and pepper and salt to taste. Pour this over the slices of mutton. This will be found an appetizing breakfast dish. Mutton Cache. Cut tender, cold mutton into thin slices and lay them in the bottom of a shallow, buttered baking dish. Salt and pepper them lightly and dot with bits of currant jelly. Moisten with some good gravy. Over the top spread a coating of rice, worked up with a teaspoonful of melted butter, pepper and salt, and a beaten egg. Bake covered for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven, uncover and brown lightly. Baked Mince. Fill a small pudding dish or pie-plate one third full of mashed potato, into which have been worked a little milk and melted butter. Set in the oven long enough to brown lightly; draw to the door of the oven and fill with minced mutton chopped very fine and well seasoned. Pour over this as much gravy as the dish can hold without running over and put back in the oven until the gravy is bubbling hot. A few mushrooms chopped fine and mixed with the mince make a pleasant addition. Stewed Chops. Heat to boiling a couple of tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying pan. Lay the chops in thisCHEAP MUTTON AND BEEF. 177 just long enough to brown them very lightly. This done, put them into a saucepan with about water enough to half cover them. Stew gently until tender. Take out the chops, place in a chafing dish, cool the gravy, and remove the fat. Heat the skimmed gravy to boiling, thicken with browned flour, pepper and salt to taste, and just before taking from the fire add the juice of half a lemon and a couple of tablespoonfuls of cooking sherry. Badly shaped chops, that would look most un- attractive if simply broiled, are very delightful cooked in this style. Mutton Pie. This may be made either of raw or cooked mut- ton. If the former, it must be cut in pieces and stewed until tender. If, however, cold roast or boiled mutton is used, it may be sliced, arranged in a baking dish, and plentifully moistened with rather highly seasoned gravy. The addition of three or four hard boiled eggs is an improvement. Make a plain pastry for the top crust. Cut it into rounds with a biscuit cutter and arrange the disks on top of the pie so that their edges touch each other. Bake in a quick oven. In city and country alike, the stand-by is beef. No matter in what shape, roast, boiled, or steak, corned or fresh, it probably appears on most tables at least twice as often as any other variety of animal food. The busy housewife, who, with the178 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. best intentions in the world, roasts the “ chuck rib,” sold to her as tenderloin, until it is a taste- less chip, or commits the “ culinary solecism ” of frying the rump steak, would possibly sigh at tlie suggestion of new modes of preparing the food, anticipating an addition to her already heavy cares. She “ has no time for fancy French cook- ing,” she would tell you. The few moments more of thought and labor devoted to the leathery steak or tough round will produce effects far exceeding the expenditure. Only really fine beef can appear on the table as a plain roast. To those who can afford to pay from twenty-five to fifty cents per pound for tenderloin and fillet, the following recipes may prove of less inter- est than to those whose attempts at good living and a pleasing variety are cramped by narrow means : — Beef a la Mode. Order from your butcher a solid chunk of the round, six or eight inches thick, and weighing about seven pounds, from which the bone has been extracted. Bind it into shape with a band of stout muslin, fastening this securely with strong twine. This is especially necessary, as the meat swells in cooking and shrinks in cool- ing. Cut into long, narrow slices half a pound of fat salt poik, and thrust tliese strips perpen- dicularly through incisions made in the beef with a small sharp knife. Place these lardoons not more than an inch apart, and be careful that theyCHEAP MUTTON AND BEEF. 179 protrude a little on each side of the round. This finished, cram into other slits and rub into the top of the beef a forcemeat made of bread crumbs and a little pork chopped fine, highly seasoned with allspice and mace, and well wet with vine- gar. Place the prepared beef in a large pot with a closely fitting top, cover with hot water, and cook slowly for three hours. Let it cool in the gravy under a heavy weight. The next day, re- move strings and band, and it is ready for the table. Slice horizontally. Rolled Beefsteak. Select a juicy rump steak an inch thick and remove the bone. Spread the steak heavily with a forcemeat made of finely chopped salt pork and bread crumbs, seasoned with parsley, thyme, sweet marjoram, and a little onion. The steak well coated, roll it up like a sheet of paper, the forcemeat inside, of course, and tie securely with stout twine. Place in a dripping pan, half fill this with boiling water, and cover closely, basting frequently. Cook slowly for an hour, turning once; then brown and serve, first clipping and re- moving the strings. Thicken the gravy with a little browned flour, and pour over the meat. Beef a la Jardiniere. Lard a five pound piece of beef as in the recipe for beef a la mode, taking the precaution to bind it securely. Put it on the stove in three quarts180 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. of boiling water, and cook slowly fifteen minutes to the pound. When it is about half done, take out three cups of the liquor. Cool and skim this, and set over the fire in a saucepan with two small onions, two turnips, two carrots, and one cup of Lima beans. Cook these until tender. Fifteen minutes before removing them from the fire, add a few parboiled potatoes. Dish the beef, drain the gravy from the vegetables, and slicing these neatly, lay them about the meat, each kind by itself. Take a cup of the liquor in which these were cooked, and when boiling hot, thicken with a teaspoonful of butter, rolled in one of browned flour, and season well. A dish of catsup or Worcestershire sauce gives additional savoriness. Pour over the beef in the dish, or if you prefer, serve separately. Pot Roast of Beef. Five pounds from the rump, without bone. Place in a broad pot, season with pepper, salt, and minced onion, and pour over it a liberal cup of boiling water. Cover tightly and cook slowly two hours, turning once. Remove the meat from the pot, place it in a drippin-g pan, dredging it well with flour, pour the pot liquor over it, and brown, basting half a dozen times. Put the meat when done in a covered dish to keep warm while you cool the gravy by setting it in cold water. When the fat rises, skim off every particle, return the gravy to the fire in a saucepan, thicken with181 CHEAP MUTTON AND BEEF. browned flour, boil up, and serve. Even the coarser pieces of meat may be made palatable by this mode of cooking. Minced Beef au Gratin. Two cups cold beef, minced fine. One cup mashed potato whipped light with half a cup of milk. A teaspoonful butter. One egg. Put the minced beef into a greased pudding dish, first seasoning it well. A little made mus- tard, or a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce is an improvement. Moisten it thoroughly with gravy, and cover with the mashed potato, which must be entirely free from lumps. Sprinkle with fine crumbs, and brown in a quick oven. This is an agreeable variety on the reappearance of the cold meat, and is very appetizing -made from corned beef.CHAPTER XIV. THE SEAMY SIDE OF SUMMER. Some years ago the housekeeper was considered delinquent who did not “ put up/’ in cans for win- ter consumption, as many varieties of fruits and vegetables as came within her reach. Berries of every kind, cherries, currants, peaches, pears, plums, apples, grapes, were all made available, and superseded to a great extent the richer and more expensive preserves that had been deemed essential by our grandmothers. Tin cans were used at first even by home manufacturers, and some writers on cookery still recommend them, although the majority prefer the more convenient glass jars. At the outset, all canned goods prepared for the market were extremely expensive. Tomatoes sold for a dollar a quart can, and were esteemed a choice luxury. Fruits were not put up in this style until about twenty-five years ago. Then, as large establishments were formed for doing this branch of housewifery by wholesale, the coun- try was suddenly fiooded with canned edibles of all sorts, shapes, and descriptions. Every prov- ince of nature was taxed to supply the demand,THE SEAMY SIDE OF SUMMER. 183 from the birds that fly in the air to the mollusks and Ashes that inhabit the sea, and the herbs that cover the earth. Soups, meats, fowls, game, crabs, lobsters, salmon, herrings, mackerel, shrimps, all kinds of vegetables, from asparagus to dandelion greens, truffles, mushrooms, and fruits of every description were offered for sale at such low rates that the markets for a while were almost glutted. Every one bought the tin cans, and countless tongues were loud in their praises. Some people even went so far as to de- clare their preference for the canned over the fresh goods, since the former required much less care in their preparation. As was natural, the reaction from this sensa- tion was in proportion to the violence of the first enthusiasm. The manufacturers grew careless. Keports were started of whole families who had been poisoned by the contents of carelessly sol- dered cans. Many persons returned to their glass- jars and to the regular hot weather penance of “putting up,” and these and other intimations, including close surveillance by committees from state and local boards of health, warned the pro- prietors of canning factories to guard more watch- fully against the adulteration of their wares. At the present day, certain brands of such goods hold an enviably high position. They are sold in enormous quantities to hotels and board- ing houses, and have a large sale among private families. As makeshifts when fresh fruits are184 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. unattainable, they are a boon, but as substitutes for ripe fruit and vegetables, fresh fish, etc., when these can be secured, they are utterly inadmissi- ble by people of just taste. In spite of this they are in constant use in households where better things would be expected. One woman of wealth, who gave a large dinner party to an especially honored visitor, offered her guests as accompani- ments to the choice fish, game, entrees, and meat dishes that went to make an elaborate repast of a dozen courses, canned peas, canned corn, canned string beans, and canned tomatoes, all served as they came from their tins except for being warmed. At a slight additional outlay of trou- ble or money, she could have procured fresh vegetables, or prepared those she had in a far more palatable manner. One great objection to “canned goods” is that it seems to be the general impression that they were sufficiently cooked at the time they were put up, and need only to be turned out of their recep- tacles and heated to be ready for use. The truth is that even the choicest of such viands require a good deal of “ doctoring ” before they are fit for the table. Canned corn, hardly palatable when simply warmed, is excellent when chopped fine and converted into fritters, corn pudding, or suc- cotash. American green peas are seldom good unless transformed into soup or pancakes, while even tomatoes should be allowed to simmer with a little sugar and a slice of onion, and be freedTHE SEAMY SIDE OF SUMMER. 185 from hard lumps before they are ready for use in the simplest style. As for canned salmon, lobster, etc., it would seem needless to state that they should be carefully prepared before serving, were it not that one often sees them placed on the table with no other care than that of simply turn- ing them out. Upon canned fruit the same course of treat- ment must be bestowed. Peaches and pears should have the liquor drained from them, and this be boiled to a thick syrup with more sugar, the fruit being dropped in at the last for a fif- teen minutes’ simmer. Even then they are hardly equal to fresh fruit stewed, and are chiefly useful in the manufacture of pies, puddings, shortcakes, etc. The tendency to fermentation that renders it impossible to season or sweeten fruit and vege- tables in putting them up, makes as necessary careful cooking for the table of those prepared at home as of those bought in shops. Still, there is no denying that the former are usually better. Compounded in a trim kitchen by a neat house- wife who devotes her whole energy to the success- ful accomplishment of her task, it is not to be wondered at if the results are more satisfactory than when the labor is done by wholesale in the perfunctory manner that becomes habitual to those who work only for others. Even with the added perfection, however, it is doubtful if in these busy days the game is worth186 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. the candle. From a pecuniary point of view it certainly costs more, except to the possessor of a large garden and orchard whose vegetables and fruits would otherwise go to waste. In this case, if a woman’s time is of little value except for household occupations, it may pay her to do her own canning instead of purchasing such articles. But for the dweller in cities who has not only to devote her leisure to this pursuit, but also to buy all her materials, canning pure and simple is about as expensive a branch of domestic economy as she can choose. With pickling, preserving, jellying, etc., the matter is different. Pickles, for instance, can rarely be procured that will compare wdth those put up at home. Dreadful suspicions of sulphuric acid rise in the minds of the beholders of the phe- nomenally clear liquid that surrounds the gher- kins and mixed pickles that bear the stamp of various noted English and American firms, and are intensified into certainty when the sharp tang of the so-called pure vinegar greets the palate. Those that are not bitingly sharp are apt to be insipid, while really good sweet pickles are almost unknown unless made at home, or purchased at a Woman’s Exchange. The wise housewife will content herself with ordinary canned fruits and vegetables, and elect rather to give her spare moments to the putting up of cherries, gherkins, peaches, pears, chow- chow, and similar appetizers. A pleasant varietyTHE SEAMY SIDE OF SUMMER. 187 upon these stereotyped although favorite dainties may be found in spiced small fruits, cherries, berries, currants, gooseberries, grapes, and the like. These are much easier to prepare, requir- ing none of the preliminary steeping needed for many varieties of pickles or the peeling demanded by others, and have the added recommendation of being less likely to ferment when they are in their jars or tumblers. They possess likewise the advantage of being done at once and finished, in- stead of having to be submitted to a series of tedious processes that drag on from day to day. While the canning of large fruits is not advised, the lovers of ‘‘ roly-poly ’’ and “ fruit valise ” pud- dings, berry dumplings, and berry pies, will do well to can huckleberries, blackberries, and rasp- berries, to be put to these uses when cold weather comes. With a little care they will keep perfectly, and when disposed of in any of the desserts men- tioned can be with difficulty distinguished from the fresh fruit. They are not tempting, however, unless served in this manner, except to the very few v/ho like stewed berries. Even for them they should be liberally sweetened and have a little more cooking before they are fit for the table. Canned apple, too, is good, whether used in pies and puddings or as furnishing a simple dessert for lunch or tea. At present a reaction in favor of preserves is taking place. Those old-fashioned dainties have furnished the subject for many strictures. They188 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. have been stigmatized as unwholesome, expensive, and troublesome to make, and canned fruits have been advocated as more desirable, both on the grounds of cheapness and digestibility. But the depraved palate still prefers the more tempting delicacies in spite of all the excellent arguments that can be adduced to the contrary. That they are costly cannot be denied, and. although mature stomachs may possibly indulge in them with im- punity, they should be kept from children, or ad- ministered, if at all, in homoeopathic doses. An excellent substitute for these, less trying to the gastric powers than the regular preserves and more toothsome than the simple canned fruit, is offered by the fruit conserve. With little care and cost, much less than are required for preserv- ing, a goodly store of these may be laid in for use in seasons when fresh fruit is out of the market. Banking with them in popularity are jams and marmalades of different kinds. Not the Scotch or Dundee marmalades that, delicious as they are, cannot be recommended upon the score of cheap- ness, but those made at home of berries, apples, and, chief of all, of peaches. They are small trouble in the making, keep perfectly, and are good, when eaten by themselves or when serving as a sweetmeat to be used in puddings and trifles. A properly made bread and marmalade pudding is a dessert that can hardly fail to please any one, and a ‘‘ Queen of all Puddings ” well deserves its name when peach marmalade is one of the ingre-THE SEAMY SIDE OF SUMMER. 189 clients. It is delightful as the filling for sponge cake custard or trifle, and makes a pleasant accom- paniment to ice cream or blanc-mange. The economical manager will find it far cheaper to make jellies than to buy them. If those sold in stores are of really first-class quality, both as regards materials and making, they are usually beyond the limits of the average purse, except in small quantities. On the other hand, the recent investigations into the composition of cheap jellies reveal adulterations that make it dangerous to par- take of them. More than one case of severe ill- ness has been caused, especially among the poorer classes, by the eating of the jellies sold at low prices. Analysis shows that the ingredients are of the cheapest and coarsest character, often, in- deed, consisting of spoiled fruit, which has been utilized for jellies, the taste of the decayed mat- ter being masked by strong acids and flavorings. Jellies make a pretty side dish or garnish for meat dishes, and some kinds, notably currant, are almost essentials in the preparation of game and savory dishes. The old custom of boiling the jelly after the sugar has been added is almost discarded at present, as it has been conclusively proved that this course not only involves addi- tional labor without rendering the jelly any firmer, but positively impairs the flavor and color. A few of the old fashioned cooks may still cling to this obsolete custom, but its observance is rap- idly growing to be the exception rather than the rule.190 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS.' While jellies are almost invariably formed in glasses, other sweets are frequently put up in glass jars. There are few families so large that they require a quart of any sort of preserve or marmalade at a single meal. The pint jars or even the tumblers will be found better for mar- malades, preserves, conserves, or pickles. Canned fruits are eaten of less sparingly, and these may be put up in quart cans if desired. A difficulty common to nearly all housekeepers in summer is that of finding some little relish for supper. Cheese dishes are appetizing, but are seldom good cold. Common sense in dietetics forbids too frequent use of meat in hot weather. Fresh fish cannot always be found. Salads are delicious, and the materials for these can readily be secured by slight forethought. Nearly any of the potted meats sold by first-class grocers furnish an excellent basis for salad. These, however, are apt to be expensive when they are really excellent, and home made substitutes are less costly and quite as good, if well seasoned. Odds and ends can thus be utilized, and oysters, clams, etc., pickled to be used at times when they cannot be obtained in their natural state. Potted and pickled halibut and salmon are always favorite dishes, and those who consider fresh salmon higher priced than they can afford will find that when that which may be bought in cans is carefully pickled, even an epicure would find difficulty in discerning any inferiority in its flavor to that put up when the king of fish has just left his river home.THE SEAMY SIDE OF SUMMER. 191 Fielded Cherries. Four quarts cherries. Garden Ked ” or some other tart variety is the best. One quart good cider vinegar. One cupful white sugar. Two dozen whole cloves. Twelve blades of mace. Heat vinegar and spices together and boil ten minutes. Pack Mason’s pint jars three quarters full of the cherries, and fill up with the strained vinegar when it has been allowed to become per- fectly cold. Screw the tops on tightly and keep in a dark place. They will be eatable within forty-eight hours, but mellow and improve with keeping. Pickled Peaches (impeeled). Eight pounds rather small, firm peaches. Three pounds white sugar. One quart vinegar. Three teaspoonfuls cinnamon and the same mace and allspice. As many whole cloves as there are peaches. Wipe off the peaches and stick a clove in each. Heat spices, sugar, and vinegar to the boiling point, drop in the peaches, and boil ten minutes. Take out the peaches with a perforated skimmer, strain the syrup, return it to the fire, and boil it down to a tliick syrup. Put the peaches into jars, pour the boiling syrup over them, and seal while hot.192 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Pickled Seckel Pears. Twelve pounds fruit. Six pounds sugar. One quart vinegar. Whole spices, cloves, allspice, mace, and stick cinnamon. Peel the pears carefully, taking off as little as possible except the skin. Drop each in cold water as it is finished to keep the color. Weigh the fruit after peeling. Lay in a porcelain lined kettle, cover thickly with sugar, and proceed in the same way until the fruit and sugar are all used. Bring to a boil on the side of the stove and add the vinegar and spices. Simmer ten min- utes. A hard boil is apt to break the fruit. Re- move the pears, boil down the syrup, and put up like pickled peaches. Spiced Grapes. Ten pounds Catawba, Isabella, Concord, Dela- ware, or sweet wild grapes. Eight pounds sugar. Four tablespoonfuls cloves. Four tablespoonfuls cinnamon. One quart vinegar. Boil slowly until the fruit is tender. Remove from the fire, and rub through a colander. Fill half pint glasses with the strained fruit and cover closely. This is delicious made of fox grapes or tart ones, but where these are used the proportion of sugar must be increased to a pound for everyTHE SEAMY SIDE OF SUMMER. 193 pound of fruit. Spiced gooseberries are excellent, as are cherries and currants. The two last need not be strained. Canned Plums for Pies. Till quart jars with the fruit, and pour in enough cold water to cover them. Set the jars in a broad pot of hot water, taking care that they shall not touch each other. Bring the water in the pot to a boil and cook ten minutes, remove from the fire, screw the tops on the jars while still hot, and set away in a cool, dark place. Al- most any sort of fruit may be put up in this way, and will be admirable for pies or puddings, or by stewing, with a little more sugar, will make a good simple dessert. Canned Apple. Peel, core, and quarter tart, juicy apples, laying each piece in cold water as soon as prepared. Drain the water from them, weigh them, and put them over the fire in a porcelain lined kettle. Cook slowly half an hour, dip out the juice, and add half a pound of sugar for each pound of fruit. Boil ten minutes, and seal in pint glass jars. Peach Marmalade. Small peaches serve for this purpose quite as well as large ones. The fruit should be peeled and sliced, or cut into small pieces. Weigh it before putting over the fire. Cook three quarters194 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. of an hour, and put in three quarters of a pound of sugar for eaeh pound of the fruit. Boil stead- ily twenty minutes, stirring eonstantly to prevent burning. Ladle out all the superfluous syrup and put it into cans to serve for pudding sauce. Be careful that no hard lumps are left uncooked in the marmalade. Bill half pint jelly glasses with the fruit, and fasten on closely fitting covers. Peach Conserve. Peel and halve fine firm peaches, and lay them in enough sugar to cover them in order to extract the juice. At the end of six hours, pour off the juice and sugar, and heat both to boiling. Sim- mer ten minutes, drop in the fruit, and boil ten minutes longer. Take the peaches out with a strainer, and put them into glass jars, keeping these hot in scalding water until the syrup left in the kettle shall have boiled thick. This should be in about fifteen minutes. Pour this over the fruit in the jars, and seal them while hot. Grape Marmalade. Pick over and stem ripe, well flavored grapes. Cook over a steady fire half an hour after they have come to a boil. Dip out most of the juice, and rub the grapes through a colander. Beturn to the fire, and add sugar in the proportion of pound for pound, unless the grapes are exception- ally sweet. In this case three quarters of a pound of sugar to each one of fruit may be used. BoilTHE SEAMY SIDE OF SUMMER. 195 half an hour longer, and put up in air-tight glass jars or tumblers. Totted Halibut. Pick to pieces cold halibut, removing all the bones. Kub with the back of a spoon until the fish is perfectly smooth. Put it into a double boiler, having the water in the outer vessel at a hard boil, and when the fish is heated through, stir into it, to each cupful of fish, a good teaspoon- ful of butter, a saltspoonful of anchovy paste, a teaspoonful of vinegar, and a little cayenne pep- per. When the fish is nearly cold, pack it into small jars, cups, or tumblers, and cover the top with clarified butter. This must be prepared by melting the butter in a cup set in a saucepan of hot water, removing the white cheesy scum that rises to the top as it melts, and finally straining the melted butter through a cloth. Pour it on top of the potted fish while warm, but not hot. Melted beef suet answers nearly as well as butter. Codfish is good prepared like halibut, and either will keep a week or ten days in a cool place. Totted Beef. Chop cold roast or boiled beef extremely fine. Put into it a teaspoonful of melted butter to each cupful of the meat, and season well with pepper, salt, and a little mace. A slice of cold boiled ham chopped with it is an improvement. Heat as di- rected in the recipe for potted halibut, and when196 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. cold, pack in the same manner in little jars, cover- ing the top with clarified butter or suet. Many directions for potting fish and meat in- sist that they must be rubbed in a mortar. This is not necessary if they are chopped to a dust-like fineness. The aim is to imitate jJuUs as nearly as possible; and to do this there must be no bits left of gristle, bone, or skin, but the mixture to be potted must be reduced to a paste-like smooth- ness. Chicken, tongue, ham, and mutton may all be potted in this style. Fielded Salmon {canned). One quart vinegar. One cup cold water. Six blades mace. Six cloves. Six whole black peppers. One teaspoonful made mustard. Two tablespoonfuls white sugar. Heat to a fast boil, and skim clear, taking care not to remove the spices. Cut the salmon into neat pieces, and drop them into the scalding liquor. Boil up once, hard, remove the salmon with a skimmer, and pack it closely into jars, pouring in the vinegar while it is boiling hot. Screw on air-tight tops, and keep the jars in the dark.CHAPTER XV. THE TEA TABLE. HOW TO MAKE IT ATTRACTIVE. Ik our large cities and among professional men, the necessity for late dinners has to some extent crowded out the tea table. It is in the vast num- ber of the homes of the so-called middle classes, and of the working people, however, that the tea table has its stronghold. Elaborate menus are in- compatible with their means, nor are they desired. The busy mother, who has been on her feet since daybreak, sweeping, dusting, making beds, and “ putting to rights,” does not feel inclined, as the evening approaches, to rally her flagging energies, and assist in the preparation of a three or four course dinner. And, where the mother is her own nursery maid, the babies are apt to miss that share of cuddling and petting that cannot be readily be- stowed when they are weary and over-excited by late hours and hearty food, while the mother has arrived at the same state through nervous and physical exhaustion. For all these, a pretty, simple supper, that can be prepared and con-198 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. smned in half the time demanded for the dinner, is far more beneficial, besides giving the house- keeper a little spare time for rest in the after- noon, and saving her half an hour more in the evening. The American tea is an institution bv itself, and, when properly managed, very charming. The chief difficulty in making it all it should be lies in the tendency familiar to busy housekeepers to get into one rut, and be shy about leaving it in an experimental search for diversity of diet. In the country, especially in New England, all the enterprise and energy of the cook seems to run to the concoction of various kinds of cake. The tea table of a prosperous farmhouse will be supplied with a plate of cold white bread, one of brown, possibly, — though not always, — with a little cheese, and three or four kinds of cake, to say nothing of doughnuts and gingerbread. Eor half the work and expense bestowed upon the ingre- dients, making, and baking of that cake, a dainty relish might have been prepared, which would have been more tempting and wholesome. The cost of many such dishes is a drawback to the careful housewife, as it ought to be. Any one can set a good table on liberal means, but it takes talent and study to be both an economical and an acceptable caterer. Avoid the beaten paths, and do not be afraid to test new recipes once in a while. Fewer cakes and pies, and more savory “made dishes,” would be an improvement, alikeTHE TEA TABLE. 199 to the healtlifulness and tastefulness of the aver- age table. An important element for the proper enjoyment and subsequent digestion of food is the appear- ance of the board from 'which it is eaten. This remark is uttered advisedly. Who cannot remem- ber the times when well cooked and abundant provisions have been made unpalatable by a soiled tablecloth, ill washed glass and crockery, and sticky silver and cutlery ? A recent writer has tried to urge that it is better to leave these arti- cles in this condition, than to oblige an overtaxed woman to get them into a neater state. It should be remembered, however, that it is no more trouble to do a thing well than to do it indifferently, and that, since dishes, knives, and forks must be washed somehow, it is as easy to use plenty of fresh hot water, soap, and clean towels, as to rinse them out in a lukewarm bath, and let them drain before wiping them. The draping of the table is the first point to which attention must be given. So much has been said in favor of sub-covers of felt and flannel that one would think by this time every woman in the country would have provided herself with one. Without it, even a rich quality of napery has a thin look, while with it a cheap tablecloth appears of really good material. To those who dread the purchase of the expensive felting, let it be said that of the unbleached canton flannel that costs eight and ten cents a yard can be made200 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. an excellent substitute by carefully whipping to- gether the selvage edges of two breadths in order that it may be the width of the table. Pretty tea cloths come now at very reasonable rates. In white or buff fringed linen, with scarlet border, they sell for from four to five dollars, in- cluding the dozen napkins. Neat red cloths are sold for even less, while if more exjDensive articles are desired, really exquisite cloths can be pur- chased for eight or nine dollars a set. The old custom of using the bare board is coming into vogue again, and may well be followed by those who possess tables wdth good hard-wood tops. A large colored napkin should then be spread in the middle of the table, while small mats are laid at each plate and under the various dishes. These mats may be knit, crocheted, or woven, or of white linen with pretty drawn work borders, and if de- sired a spray of flowers, a quaint Kate Greenaway figure, or a Kensington design may be embroidered in the centre. In china there is a boundless choice. Odd Ja- panese and Chinese patterns can be procured very reasonably in dull or gay tints, while some people prefer the plain white porcelain to anything else. Whatever it may be makes little difference, so long as it is clean and bright. A pretty custom is that of having an individual cup and saucer for each member of the family, and the harlequin effect may be heightened by the use of odd sugar bowl and cream jug. The tray should be coveredTHE TEA TABLE. 201 with a cloth made for the purpose. This may be bought fringed, and ready for any additions in the way of needlework that taste or ingenuity may devise. One pretty design is the old couplet: — “Except the kettle boiling be, Filling the teapot spoils the tea.” The pictures of the kettle and teapot are given instead of the written words, while the same plan is followed by placing the capital initials B and T instead of the “be” and “tea” terminating the lines. These may be done in outline in wash silks. The cosy or thickly wadded cap to cover the teapot is another important appurtenance, and may be made rich or simple as desired. It should be cut of a size to lit the pot for which it is in- tended, and of any suitable material, ladies cloth, turcoman, felt, sateen, or even silk or satin. It is prettiest in a plain color, not too bright, and of a serviceable goods, and may be braided, quilted, embroidered, or painted, and the edges finished with a cord. French wool wadding is better for stuffing than cotton batting, as being both warmer and lighter. Individual taste may be consulted in the design worked upon the cosy, but two or three suggestions may not come amiss. A minia- ture tea tray, a tiny teapot and creamer, a cup and saucer, a spray of flowers (presumably blos- soms of the tea plant), or any other appropriate pattern, and for mottoes, “ The cup that cheers,”202 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. “ Come, sip the tea’s delicious flower,” “ Let us welcome peaceful evening in,” or, “ Take only such cups as leave a friendly warmth.” There is but one proper method of making tea, and that is with boiling water, on the table. Many people dread this process from an exaggerated idea of the trouble involved, but looked at from a com- mon sense point of view, it is really no more labor than preparing it in the kitchen. First of a.11, one must, of course, have a hot water pot, and this is really the only item of expense worth mention- ing. One may pay almost any price for these articles, the cost depending largely upon the ma- terial of which they are composed, for they come in plated silver and nickel, copper and brass. The last named are the cheapest. A very j^retty one on a swinging stand may be bought for from three to flve dollars, according to tlie size. If this is too dear, an excellent substitute may be arranged by purchasing one of the little stands containing an alcohol lamp, known sometimes as portable stoves, and setting on it a small nickel plated or copper kettle such as may be picked up at a household furnishing store for a dollar or two. Even one of tin, always kept clean and shining, need not be despised. The late Charles Delmonico used to say that water that had been boiling long was “ worse than no wiiter at all ” for making tea, and he urged the necessity of having it freshly heated for that pur- pose. The table kettle can be brought to the boil203 THE TEA TABLE. on the range before it is taken into the dining- room, and then kept in a state of ebullition by the flame of the spirit lamp. The water must be actu- ally boiling when poured on the tea, in order to extract the full strength from the leaves. The teapot should be of earthenware or silver, as the tannic acid in the herb is said to produce a corro- sive effect upon some metals, and to cause an un- wholesome if not an absolutely poisonous liquid. Pretty Japanese teapots are sold at nearly all china shops at twenty-five cents apiece and up- ward. The old rule in tea making, “ A spoonful for each person and one for the pot,” is a good one to follow. The little china rose-jars, of the same invalu- able Japanese ware, cost only thirty or forty cents apiece, and are provided with tops that serve as measures. The teapot should be scalded out be- fore the leaves are put in, enough water poured on them to cover them, and the cosy drawn over the teapot for from three to five minutes. Then the pot must be filled, and after it has stood two minutes longer, the contents must be stirred and it will be ready for use. A very simple process, but one that seems to be poorly comprehended, judging from the difficulty one has in finding reall}'' good tea, even in the houses of the wealthy. Tea should never be boiled, as this gives it a rank, herby taste, entirely destroying the pungent, yet delicate flavor that is its chief charm. The cosy keeps the tea so warm that it happily204 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. dispenses with any need of the disagreeable fash- ion that was once common, of rinsing out the cups and spoons in the slop basin before filling the former. The strainer is an important adjunct to the tea equipage. Quaint and pretty ones in the Gorham silver plate that almost equal those made of the solid metal, cost only a dollar and a half. Block sugar is an added nicety and not an expen- sive one. Real cream is also an acceptable addi- tion to a cup of tea, except for the palates of those so-called genuine tea lovers, who prefer drinking theirs with neither milk nor sugar. A grateful variety may be obtained sometimes by the use of Russian tea. This consists simply of putting a lump of sugar and a slice of lemon into a cup or glass and pouring the tea upon it. In nearly every family there are some who have no liking for “ the cups that cheer.” For these another beverage may readily be prepared. The cocoas manufactured by Wilbur, Whitman, Baker, Huyler, Maillard, and others are easily cooked and are palatable to almost every one. The graceful accompaniments that come into play for the beautifying of the tea table are legion, and may be left to the taste of the house- keeper. A vase of blossoms, a pot of ferns or flowers, is always a refreshing addition. Little fringed doilies laid on the bread or ca,ke plate, under their contents, or gay Japanese paper mats, put to the same use, knit or crocheted holders for the hot water kettle, cheap but ornamental indi-205 THE TEA TABLE. vidual pepper and salt boxes, dainty glass dishes for preserves or marmalades, — all these and a dozen other similar adornments will readily sug- gest themselves to the student of ways and means for rendering the tea table attractive, and the evening hour the brightest spot in the day.CHAPTER XVI. DAINTY DISHES FOR TEA. The following recipes are not intended for elab- orate supper parties, but for simple family teas in households where the wife and mother has to do most of the preparation herself. While it may be easier to serve beef, veal, or chicken cold, it is believed that few women will grudge the slight additional labor involved by the following direc- tions, if, by its outlay, they can render the even- ing meal more appetizing, and the home more attractive. Mounded Beef. Two cupfuls cold roast or boiled beef, chopped as for hash. One cupful cold mashed potato. One cupful gravy. One tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce. One tablespoonful mixed green pickle or chow- chow. One teaspoonful minced onion. One saltspoonful each ground cloves, allspice, and cinnamon. Thyme, summer savory, sweet marjoram. Salt and pepper to taste.DAINTY DISHES FOR TEA. 201 Yolks of two raw eggs. Stir th.e ingredients together until all are thoroughly incorporated, moistening with gravy until the mixture is as soft as it can be made, and yet be handled. Mound into a brick-like shape in a greased baking pan, sift flour thickly over it, and bake covered half an hour. Kemove the cover, rub over with butter, and brown. Transfer carefully to a hot platter, and have ready a sauce made from a cupful of stewed tomatoes, heated with the same quantity of well seasoned soup stock. Rub through a colander to remove Mmps, and pour over the mound. Half a can of mush- rooms, sliced, and stewed tender in the gravy, will be found an improvement, but the dish is tempting even without this addition, and is a pleasing variation upon the stereotyped hash. Creavied Chicken. One cup and a half unskimmed milk. One tablespoonful cornstarch. One tablespoonful butter rubbed into the corn- starch. Half teaspoonful minced onion. Half teaspoonful minced parsley. A pinch of soda stirred into the milk. Salt and pepper to taste. Remnants cold roast, boiled, or broiled chicken, jointed, or cut into neat pieces. Heat the milk to scalding in a double boiler, and pour, a little at a time, upon the cornstarch208 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. and butter. Eeturn to the fire, stir until it thickens, and add the seasoning. Drop the pieces of chicken into the sauce, and let it simmer five to ten minutes. Pour over rounds of fried bread, garnish with sprays of parsley, and serve very hot. Minced Veal on Toast. Prepare a cream dressing in the manner de- scribed above, and stir into it two cupfuls of cold lean veal, minced small with a knife, but not chopped. When the whole is smoking hot, pour it on slices of lightly buttered toast, from which the crust has been carefully trimmed. A border of scrambled eggs makes an agreeable addition to this dish. Baked Ham Omelet. Six eggs. One scant cupful milk. One even teaspoonful cornstarch. One cupful cold boiled ham, chopped very fine. Whip the whites and yolks separately, until the former are stiff and the latter creamy. Beat them lightly together, but without mixing thoroughly. Add the milk, in which the cornstarch has been dissolved, and last of all, stir the minced ham in quickly. Pour into a buttered pudding dish, and bake immediately in a hot, steady oven, for fifteen minutes. Should it brown too rapidly, cover until the omelet is fairly set. Do not let it stand after it leaves the oven, or it will fall and becomeDAINTY DISHES FOR TEA. 209 heavy. This omelet will require longer for cook- ing than one made without meat. Instead of the ham, finely chopped chicken or veal may be used, but these must be highly seasoned with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs. Potato Puff with Cheese. Two cupfuls cold mashed potato. One egg. One half cupful milk. One teaspoonful melted butter. Two tablespoonfuls grated cheese. Salt and pepper. Beat the potato, milk, and butter together until light, and add the whipped egg. Pour into a greased pudding dish, strew the cheese thickly over the top, and bake in a good oven until brown. Fifteen minutes should be sufficient. English Muffins. One cupful bread dough which has been rising all night. One cupful sweet milk, or enough to make a batter a little stiffer than that for griddle cakes. Let the batter rise an hour, and then bake on a well greased griddle, allowing a good table- spoonful of the mixture for each muffin. They must be at least half an inch thick, and may be served warm, if desired. They are better, how- ever, if they are left until cold, then split open, toasted lightly on the inside, and eaten hot with butter.210 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Rye Puffs. Two cupfuls rye flour. Half cupful wheat flour. One egg. One tablespoonful sugar. One teaspoonful and a half baking powder, sifted three times with the flour. One cupful and a half milk, or enough to make a rather stiff batter. Add the milk to the whipped egg and sugar, stir in the flour, and beat hard for a minute be- fore pouring into greased gem pans. Bake in a quick oven. They will be found wholesome and delicious. Creamed Salmo7i. One can salmon. One cup cream. Half cup milk. Two small tablespoonfuls cornstarch rubbed smooth with one tablespoonful of butter. Pinch of soda. Pepper and salt to taste. Turn the salmon from the can into a colander so as to drain off all the liquor, and pick the fish into small flakes with a fork, carefully removing all bits of bone and skin. Have ready the milk and cream heated in a double boiler with the soda, and add to them the cornstarch and butter, stirring constantly until they thicken smoothly. Put in the salmon and toss it about with a fork until it is hot throughout. Remove from the fire,211 DAINTY DISHES FOR TEA. and fill greased scallop shells or patty pans ■with the mixture. Sprinkle the crumbs over the top of each, stick bits of butter here and there, and set in the oven long enough to brown delicately. Serve with crackers and sliced lemon. This dish can be entirely prepared in the morning, with the exception of the final ten minutes in the oven. Cold cod, halibut, or other firm fish can be used instead of the salmon, if preferred, but it must be very finely shredded. At first sight the call for cream and butter may seem extravagant, but the total cost of the ingredients will prove less than that of good chops or steak, and will give that variety w'hich it should be the housewife’s study to provide. If cream is not to be obtained, use milk and double the quantity of butter. Sausage Omelet. Six eggs. One cup milk. One small teaspoonful cornstarch. One cup cold cooked sausage, chopped very fine. Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs sepa- rately until both are as light as they can be made. Stir together until they are tolerably well mingled, add the milk in which the cornstarch has been dissolved, and pour the whole into an omelet pan, containing a tablespoonful of sweet lard boiling hot. It must not have been allowed to brown. Tip the pan from side to side that the mixture212 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. may not burn, and with a knife loosen the edges when they show signs of sticking. When it be- gins to grow firm in the middle, sprinkle over it the chopped sausage, cook a moment longer, double one half of the omelet on the other with the knife, and slip from the pan to a hot dish. Serve at once. Turkey Salmi. Cut bits of cold turkey, either light or dark meat, into pieces not more than an inch square, with a sharp knife. Add to this remnants of the stuffing and the minced giblets. Put the bones, bits of skin and gristle on the stove in enough cold water to cover them, and let them simmer gently until the liquid is reduced one half. Cool, and skim off the grease, and heat a cup of the gravy to boiling. Thicken with browned flour, season with sweet herbs, chopped parsley, and a little onion, stir in the minced turkey and three hard boiled eggs sliced. Let it remain over the fire until smoking hot. Serve in a platter, and surround with small triangles of bread fried light brown in nice dripping. Curried Beef. One cup nice gravy. One teaspoonful curry powder. Half small onion chopped very fine and added to the gravy, One small sour apple, also minced. Slices of cold roast, boiled, or braised beef.DAINTY DISHES FOR TEA. 213 Heat the gravy, add the onion, apple, and curry powder, lay in the slices of beef, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Serve plain boiled rice in a separate dish. Mince with Poached Eggs. Chop cold meat as for hash, removing all bits of fat and gristle. Warm in a saucepan with a little gravy, or if neither this nor soup stock is at hand, moisten the meat with a little boiling water in which a dessertspoonful of butter has been melted. Season to taste. Cut the crust from square slices of bread, toast and butter lightly, and heap a generous spoonful of the mince upon each piece. Set covered in a hot place while you poach as many eggs as there are X)eople to be supplied. Lay one on top of each mound of mince, dust over with pepper and salt, and serve very hot. Oyster Toast. Half a pint oysters chopped small. One cup milk. One egg.. One teaspoonful butter rolled in one of corn- starch. Heat the milk in a double boiler with the corn- starch and butter. Bring the oyster liquor to boiling, and cook the chopped oysters in it not more than five minutes. Too much stewing ren- ders them as tough as India rubber. Season to214 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. taste, add the hot milk into which the beaten egg has been stirred at the last moment, and take at once from the fire. Pour upon slices of buttered toast arranged in a deep dish, and cover closely. Sugar Snaps. One cup sugar. Three tablespoonfuls butter. Three tablespoonfuls lard. Half small cup water. One teaspoonful ginger. Two teaspoonfuls cinnamon. Half teaspoon fill soda dissolved in hot water. Enough flour to make a stiff dough. Warm shortening and sugar, stir in the water and spices, and add the flour last. Roll out very thin, cut into fancy shapes with a cake cutter, and sprinkle a little sugar over them before baking. Be very careful that they do not scorch.CHAPTER XVII. HIGH TEA. One of the most popular forms of small enter- tainments that can be given at present is a tea. Not the old-fashioned “hearty tea” of our grand- mothers. That was a repast under which the board groaned, and for which preparation must be made days beforehand. The more delicate dishes, such as salads and croquettes, were not thought of then, but meats of many kinds must be cooked, six or eight sorts of cake compounded, and every plate must be surrounded by an array of saucers, each holding a different variety of pre- serve or sweetmeat. Such a “ spread ” demanded a greater expenditure of time, labor, and money than would suffice now to provide a fashionable dinner a la Russe. The afternoon tea is a far simpler affair and does not (piite fill the requirement. A cup of tea or chocolate and a macaroon, while it is all that is needed by guests who drop in for half an hour on their way to their own homes and a substantial dinner, is insufficient as provision for a social evening. Accordingly, there was something de^ vised resembling the English “high tea” which216 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. supplies a pretty, dainty meal, less heavy and formal than a dinner, more cosy and homelike than a kettledrum. For such an entertainment, guests are usually invited at any time from six to eight o’clock p. m., with the understanding that they are to remain the rest of the evening. In cities, dress coats and light gowns are considered essential, but in small towns or in the country, gentlemen may appear in morning coats, and ladies in pretty afternoon or evening costumes. The invitations may be either verbal or written, and are informal. As a rule, the number of guests does not much exceed twenty, and may be less. Small tables are generally used, of a size to ac- commodate from four to six persons apiece. The tables are covered with large napkins and spread with plates, knives, forks, spoons, glasses, and napkins. Each should bear salt and pepper cruets, sugar bowl, and creamer. It is an excel- lent plan, in setting the table, to give each guest two or three forks, knives, and spoons, — in short, all the silver required for the successive courses, if the state of the family plate will allow this. It saves much time and trouble in changing the silver. A roll or a thick half slice of bread should be laid between the folds of each napkin. This should be placed at the side of the plate, the knives, with their edges from the plate, in a row pn the right, and on the left, the forks, while theHIGH TEA. 217 spoons are laid above the plate, at right angles with the other silver. The glasses should be filled beforehand, to save as much time as pos- sible when the real business of eating begins. Where there are two rooms, such as dining-room and parlor, or two parlors, the tables can be laid in one room, while the guests are assembling in the other. Often, however, the hostess can com- mand but one large room in which to entertain her friends. In this case, the little tables can be brought in by a servant and spread in the pres- ence of the guests without the least breach of propriety. After the meal is over, the dishes are quickly carried out on trays, and the tables either taken from the room or left where they stand for cards or any of the many popular pencil and paper games that are pleasant at such gatherings. One waitress, if quick and deft, can readily wait on a dozen people, especially if all the nec- essary articles for changing the courses, plates, silver, etc., are arranged on a side table in the room or outside the door. An excellent plan is that of writing out a full list of the various dishes to be served, and their order, accompanying each item with a memorandum of the china and silver to be used. It is an exceptionally dull-witted servant, who, with a little preliminary drilling, will not manage such an affair without very ob- vious blunders. In seating guests, judgment must be used. Congenial companions should be placed together,218 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. or if strangers, those who will be likely to enjoy meeting one another. It is not pleasant to have as one one’s next neighbor or op]30site, through a meal that may last an hour or more, some one whose society is distasteful, or with whom one has nothing in common. The places may be marked by cards, bearing the names of those who are to occupy them. The dainty hand-painted cards with appropriate designs and mottoes add to the beauty of the table and set the conversational ball rolling, besides furnishing pretty souvenirs. In place of these, plain cards may be used, or the hostess may inform her guests with whom they are to sit. If one is not quite sure of making judicious arrangements, she may leave her vis- itors to choose their own companions and seat themselves. There are many attractive menus that can be suggested for teas, but the following seems to demand as little home labor for satisfactory re- sults as any other. The word tea, by the way, is something of a misnomer, as at these entertain- ments the beverages are almost invariably coffee or chocolate, or both, tea being left entirely out of the question.HIGH TEA. 219 Menu. Bouillon. Bread. Crackers. Celery. Pickled Oysters. Chicken Salad. Pinard Sandwiches. Olives. Salted Almonds. : Chocolate. Coffee. Ice Cream. Fancy Cakes. Fruit. Serve the bouillon in cups, and be sure that it is very hot. Have a thin slice of lemon floating on the surface of each cup. Pass crackers (the Zephyr or Snowflake brands are best) with this, and choice blanched celery. If the tables are set before the guests arrive, it is well to have a couple of short stalks of celery laid at each plate, and spare that amount of waiting. Have each cup and saucer set in a plate, and take all three pieces off at once. Either tea or coffee cups may be used, and it is, of course, unnecessary to have them match. The pickled oysters, with not too much liquor, may either be served on the same plate with the sala,d, or separately. Glass or china dishes may hold the salad and ovsters. Forks should be used with this course. The sandwiches must be neatly piled on fringed napkins on bread plates, and must be passed several times, and the olives and salted almonds may fill small glass dishes. The olives may be helped with a fork or spoon; the almonds may be served with spoons. The220 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. coffee and chocolate should be poured out at a side table, and sugar and cream passed with them to each person. The ice cream should also be served off the table, and passed in the plate or saucer from which it is to be eaten. The cakes should be prettily arranged in a cake dish with a doily under them. The fruit should be placed on a flat salver, as high-piled dishes are apt to be top- heavy and difficult to pass. Oranges, bananas, grapes, the last cut into rather small bunches, make a pretty array. Each guest must be sup- plied with a fruit plate, doil}'^, finger bowl, fruit knife, and fork or spoon. Bouillon. Four pounds beef, chopped fine at the butcher’s. Four quarts cold water. Put the beef on in the cold water, and let it take at least an hour to come to a boil. Cook very slowly, simmering at the side of the stove, and never boiling hard. Keep this up four or five hours until this water is reduced to about two quarts. Let the meat get cold in the liquor. All this should be done the day before it is to be used. Next day remove the grease and strain the liquor through a thick cloth, squeezing every drop of moisture from the shreds of beef. Put the liquor on the stove, bring to a boil, and stir in the white and shell of an egg. Boil about two minutes, and strain the soup once more. The221 HIGH TEA. result will be a clear amber colored fluid. If de- sired, this may be darkened by the addition of a little caramel. Of course, the bouillon may be made weaker, but these directions will, if followed exactly, pro- duce most satisfactory results. Two quarts will prove enough for sixteen or eighteen medium sized tea cups, or for twenty after-dinner coffee cups. Pickled Oysters. Eighty fine oysters. Two small cups white vinegar. Twelve whole cloves. Twelve whole black peppers. Twelve blades mace. Two small red peppers. Salt to taste. Heat the oysters and liquor in a porcelain lined kettle. Just before they reach the boil, take out the oysters with a split spoon, and set aside in jars. Add the cloves, mace, pepper, and vinegar to the liquor, boil up once, and pour, while still scalding, over the oysters in the jars. Cover and put in a cool, dark place. They will be fit for use next day. If they are to be kept for a week, the jars must be air tight. Chicken Salad. Boil full grown fowls until they are so tender that the flesh almost drojDS from the bones. Cut the meat into neat pieces, rejecting all bits of222 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. skin or gristle. Mix with it an equal amount of cut celery, and proceed according to directions given for canned chicken salad in the chapter “For Christmas Week.” Full directions are also given there for mayonnaise dressing. Pinai'd Sandwiches. Purchase what are known as finger rolls; they are about four or five inches long and quite thick. Split these and scrape out most of the crumb. Butter the inside of the shells thus left, and fill the hollows with finely chopped meat, tying the two halves of the rolls together in the middle with narrow ribbon. A pretty variety may be made by using ribbons of different colors, as pink or red for tongue sandwiches, pale blue or green for chicken, etc.CHAPTER XVIII. COUNTRY BOARDING. Long before the first warm weather makes it- self felt in city and country, extensive summer preparations are being made both by boarder and landlord. The far-seeing father or mother en- gages lodgings three months ahead at the popular seaside hotel, the famous mountain resort, or the quiet country boarding place, as inclination or purse may dictate, while the proprietors of these different establishments are no less prompt in their provisions for the reception of their guests. With the advent of the heated term comes the rush from the town to cooler abiding places; an exodus that is perceptible in the packed hotels of Coney Island, Cape May, and the White Moun- tains. A less notable, but almost equally formida- ble move along the line is made at the same time upon mountain farmhouses and obscure seashore villages by quiet mothers, with an accompanying escort of children and nurses. To their hostesses, these arrivals are of far more importance than are the guests to the proprietors of the mammoth fashionable caravansaries. The plain, common-sensible housewife, who de-224 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. votes the summer days that mean rest and recrea- tion to her boarders, to added toil in their behalf, commits a grave blunder when she attempts to imitate, even in a slight degree, the elegances and luxuries furnished in expensive hotels and showy boarding houses. One great charm and benefit to her city visitors is derived from the complete con- trast most of them find between their usual sur- roundings and those among which they spend the hot months. There are few of them so lacking in wisdom or in good taste, as to draAv invidious comparisons. When they do, the criticism reflects more discredit upon themselves than upon those under whose roof they are sheltered. There are luxuries that are necessaries to most people, however, and these, fortunately, are not difficult to proAude. Prominent among them are ample Avashing accommodations. Sojourners in the country cannot expect stationary AA^ash stands and bath tubs Avith unlimited hot Avater, but they have a right to demand good-sized boAvls, pitchers, and foot tubs, plenty of clean toAvels, even though they may not be of the finest quality, and an abundant supply of fresh Avater. That these re- quirements are not ahvays fulfilled need hardly be said. There are many summer resorts Avhere fresh Avater for bathing purposes Avould seem to be one of the most expensive of commodities, from the trouble one has to obtain more than a stinted share of it, Avhile the boarding-school allowance of two toAvels a Aveek apiece is rigidlyCOUNTRY BOARDING. 225 observed. Naturally, generosity in these respects involves extra toil in carrying water up and down stairs, and adds materially to the work of the laundry. But all these facts should be taken into consideration by the housekeeper before she opens her home to guests. What is worth doing at all is Avorth doing well, and it is a very poor policy to exercise an economy that will result in deterring people from ever again engaging accom- modations in the same establishment. On the other hand, no hostess can be expected to accede to unreasonable demands, nor can a boarder an- ticipate regular hotel service for the moderate sum asked for board in most country places. Another prime requisite is absolute cleanliness in every department of the house. The sheets may be coarse, but they must be spotless, and the mattress they cover, whether excelsior, cotton, or hair, must be SAveet and free from any musty odor. The Aveighty calico-and-cotton spreads, misnamed comfortables, should never be used in summer. They are too heavy for comfort or healthfulness, and should have as substitutes light, cheap blan- kets that can be easily Avashed. The AvindoAvs may be guiltless of draperies, but the glass must be clear, Avhile perfect purity and neatness lend a charm to even the plainest and least costly fur- nishings. So many farmhouses are built Avith especial reference to keeping out the cold blasts Avhich hoAvl about them in Avinter, that the bed- rooms are apt to be provided Avith small AvindoAvs,226 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. thus rendering perfect ventilation extremely diffi- cult. On this account it is all the more necessary to have everything so thoroughly clean that bad air will find it hard to gain a lodging place. All receptacles for holding water, and particularly those reserved for slops, should be scalded daily, and if possible, have an hour’s sun bath; while the tin vessels should be subjected to a tri-weekly scrubbing with washing soda or Household ammo- nia. A thorough sweeping once a week is essen- tial, and the dust pan and brush should always be in readiness to remove daily accumulations of dirt or fluff. The housewife who already owns carpets can- not afford to discard them from her chambers, but if she has to purchase some kind of floor cover- ings, mattings will be found cheaper, more service- able, less given to harbor dirt, than anything else. Hard-wood floors are excellent, but are not usually found in the country, while painted ones manifest a disagreeable tendency to show every dusty or muddy footprint, and to recpiire a wet cloth to remove the traces. Matting is cooler and much more easily kept clean than a carpet, and a touch of luxury may be granted, if desired, by the ad- dition of strips of carpet or some of the many varieties of home-made rugs, laid in front of the bureau and washstand, and beside the bed. Many ornaments and draperies in a bed-chamber are now voted to be inadvisable, both on the ground of health, and of the additional labor227 COUNTRY BOARDING. caused by the care of them. Plain linen shades at the windows, a few pictures ion the walls, a neat cloth or pretty towel spread on top of the bureau, a pincushion, catch-all, match safe, etc., are all the adornments that are absolutely re- quired, although others may be added at pleasure. One useful adjunct to a bedroom is a neat shelf, of plain or stained deal, upon which can be placed the guests’ books, work-box, and little knick- knacks. The lack of something of this kind is often painfully felt by the summer boarder, who is obliged either to keep her Bible, prayer-book, and novels on her bureau, in a jumble with combs, brushes, cologne bottles, and toilet articles, or else is forced to dive into her trunk for her books whenever she wishes to sit down for five minutes’ reading. A light rocking-chair, and even the most unpretentious footstool, will also be heartily ap- preciated by the woman visitor who is principled against using the bed as a lounging place, but whose spine is wearied by the straight-backed high chairs which are often the only seats offered. The question of the table is one which is espe- cially likely to exercise the soul of the house- keeper. Unless she. is one of those for whom this paper is not intended, whose chief aim is to squeeze every penny she can from her boarders, regardless of their comfort or her own future pat- ronage, she has an honest desire to furnish lier city guests with tempting food, and a natural pride in giving them as good a table as they have228 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. been accustomed to at home. In pursuance of this, she too often falls into the error of endeavor- ing to procure such viands as she imagines they would have in the city, not reflecting ihat to them a greater treat would be a complete change. She purchases, at a high figure, sea fish, that are brought to her after being carted over miles of hot, dusty, country roads, while she leaves un- touched treasures of lake and stream almost at her door. She buys tough steak and roasts, stringy veal and bony mutton six daj'S in the week, and provides poultry so seldom that its ap- pearance is marked as a red-letter day in her guests’ calendar. She outdoes herself in the num- ber and variety of canned goods she places on her table, while her boarders are rarely treated to fresh vegetables, berries, or fruit. She spends strength and money upon elaborate assortments of cake, and omits to furnish the fresh eggs, milk and cream, which are craved by the visitors from town, to whom they would be a delicious rarity. Nine times out of ten the hostess commits these errors through sheer ignorance. Although she may not go as far as did one landlady, who wrote to a city friend begging for directions for cooking “ fashionable ” dishes, yet the desire — a very nat- ural one — is the same with all, to prepare suit- able and acceptable fare for their guests. It is a jjity that so much energy and good will should ever be misdirected. Employed in the right quar- ter, it might produce the happiest results.COUNTRY BOARDING. 229 The housekeeper who carefully plans for the accommodation of summer boarders, will have lit- tle difficulty in procuring tempting fare for the inmates of her home. She can arrange so that the early broods of chickens may furnish a stock of broilers, “^nd those of the older fowls who are not devoting their energies to the production of eggs may serve for soups, fricassees, and chicken pies. She can secure what is so seldom found in the country, a supply of fresh vegetables, so that she may be free from bondage to canned goods. She can contract with the urchins of the neighbor- hood for goodly supplies of berries, and she can resolve to make less butter for market, and keep her milk and cream for free use at the table. If there are streams or ponds in the vicinity, she can almost always have fresh fish to order. In a word, she can secure her provisions from sources immediately about her rather than from a dis- tance, and profit immeasurably by the course. When her visitors see set before them poultry and eggs instead of country butchers’ meat, trout, pickerel, and bass for cod, mackerel, or halibut, fresh fruit and berries in place of heavy puddings and pastry, it is not likely that there will be com- jjlaints uttered because the menu does not compete in elaborateness with one concocted by a Parisian chef. Sensible people do not expect to find fine dam- ask, solid silver, and French china in a rural hotel or boarding house, nor does the ambition of the230 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. hostess often lead her to attempt to imitate met- ropolitan fashions in this particular. She cannot be too solicitous, however, to preserve a high standard of neatness in everything pertaining to the table. This is not always the simple matter it might appear at the first glance.'* With the crush of visitors during the few weeks of mid- summer, compelling extra labor from a house- keeper already taxed to nearly her full powers, with the difficulty of obtaining faithful and com- petent service in the country, and with a hundred apparently equally important duties claiming her attention in different parts of her menage., it is no wonder that occasionally a sticky spoon, a rough- ened tumbler or a streaked plate should find its way to the table, or if the linen should not always be immaculate. Constant vigilance must be exer- cised to prevent the contretemps being of daily occurrence. In the country there is no excuse for not always having the table bright with flowers, though they may be nothing more than a bunch of wayside blossoms or grasses in a common tumbler. These should never be suffered to become faded or mal- odorous, and strongly perfumed flowers should be avoided. There is generally one, at least, among the young people of the house who is ready to undertake to gather bouquets for the table, and often there is an embarrassment of riches, the only trouble being to find receptacles for the woodland and meadow beauties brought in by flower-loving ramblers in forest and field.231 COUNTRY BOARDING. Country residents are apt to underestimate the passion for out-door life felt by the dwellers in cities, whose only breathing spell is found in their summer vacations. The farmer and his wife view with good-natured amusement the enthusi- asm their visitors will devote to the getting up of picnics, alfresco teas or lunches, and mountain or boating expeditions. In this idiosyncrasy — per- haps incomprehensible to her — the housekeeper may find a suggestion for lightening her own la- bors. Few are the country neighborhoods that do not possess some attractions to be visited; a glen, a waterfall, a cave, a view. Excursions to these are regarded as part of the pleasures of rural sur- roundings. The wise hostess will utilize this de- sire, and at the same time give herself a relief from the constant strain of devising and cooking hot meals, by making at least one day in the open air a part of the weekly programme. It would be a real boon to a hard-worked woman to have a nearly empty house on washing day. By the aid of a little forethought she may make most of the necessary preparations on Saturday. One or two extra pans of cake, cookies, or gingerbread, a beef or veal loaf, a pair of roast or broiled chickens, will form only a small additional item in her weekly baking; and these provisions may be sup- plemented by biscuit baked before breakfast on Monday morning, hard-boiled eggs, and bottles of cold coffee, tea, or lemonade. Raw potatoes and green corn may be taken along to be roasted in232 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. the ashes or boiled in a gypsy kettle when the pic- nickers are ready for them, and will have a far finer relish than when cooked and served in the ordinary and orthodox method. An entertain- ment of this sort costs no more than would a reg- ular dinner eaten at home, while the time thus gained by the housewife for other duties is of in- estimable value. So many crusades have been waged against the heavy midday meal that it seems almost uncalled for to attempt further warfare. It may be said, however, that every objection urged against them in winter is intensified a hundred fold by the com- ing of hot weather. In fact there should be a marked difference in the commissary department during the two seasons. The amount and quality of food required when cold weather demands ani- mal warmth for comfort, and when hearty eating may be counterbalanced by corresponding exer- cise, varies materially from that needed when the dog-days have enervated the system, causing de- bility of the gastric forces as well as to the other powers of the body. Yet the man who would not think of starting on a long tramp or row, when the mercury is up in the nineties, does not hesi- tate at the same temperature to burden his stom- ach with a load that exacts its utmost vigor of assimilation. It is hardly practicable to contemplate abolish- ing one substantial meal per diem, but let its items be carefully considered. Abjure everythingCOUSTRY BOARDING. 238 heating in its tendency ; fat meats, fried food, rich pastry, etc., and choose rather, fish, eggs, poultry, cereals, green vegetables, salads, and fruits. Let the noon repast be a compromise be- tween lunch and dinner, and provide a substan- tial tea, where there will be less cake than one usually sees on a farmhouse table, Avhile the eggs thus saved are poached, scrambled, boiled, or con- verted into savory omelets. It seems in many localities impossible to effect the compromise be- tween stinginess and lavishness that will result in a simple yet appetizing meal. Let a pleasing variety be studied, and too regular a repetition of any one bill of fare be avoided. Simplicity can be preserved withal, for elaborate cookery is wearying and unwholesome in hot weather. "While an open fire in each bedroom is usually out of the question, a charm is imparted to the general parlor or sitting-room if there is a blaze of sticks on the hearth cool mornings and even- ings. The care will be slight, and more than atoned for by the pleasure gained. One of the pleasantest hostelries in Berkshire county owes much of its homelikeness to the generous wood fire that crackles in its broad chimney place when- ever a touch of chilliness in the air renders it ad- visable. Brass andirons and fender contribute to the cheery effect, and it serves as a loadstone to draw back all who have once gathered about its hospitable light.CHAPTER XIX. SUMMER DESSERTS. The American pie is an article sui generis. Among the many “ institutions ” of this great and glorious country, none other may be reckoned more purely national. The English have their raised pasties, the French their tarts and pates, the Germans, Italians, and Spaniards the counter- parts of those, but in none of these cases does any dish occupy the j)lace that pie proudl}^ fills in the United States. In its nature it is as essentially democratic as should be the epitome of the tastes of the land of freedom and equality, and graces — or disgraces — the tables of rich and poor, high and low, with impartial indigestibility. No patri- otic citizen could for a moment venture to hint at the abolition of this Palladium, but a mild protest may be uttered against making it a universal vade mecum. Pie, at the right time and in the right place, can be rivaled by no other form of dessert. Thanksgiving would be incomplete without the pumpkin pie, which, as the jolly “November” says in “The New Year’s Bargain,” to be perfect must contain as little pumpkin and as much else235 SUMMER DESSERTS. that is good as possible. The Christmas feast would lose its crown, on this side of the ocean, at least, if the smoking and spicy mince pie, “ a box where sweets compacted lie,” were not numbered among the dainties prepared for that day. Nor can lemon, peach, apple meringue, and cream berry pies be voted other than delicious. In winter, or even semi-occasionally in summer, a good pie is as tempting a delicacy as can be of- fered. But familiarity breeds contempt, and the stomach which is forced to attempt the assimila- tion of leathery pastry three hundred and sixty- live days in the year revolts at length. Pastry, to be made as it should be, is one of the costliest of dishes. Its manufacture requires the best of materials, the most careful handling, and the most skilled judgment. Seldom is the house- wife found who brings all these essentials to the concoction of her weekly — sometimes tri-weekly — batch of pies.” Cheap butter and little of that, a slap-dash mixing and rolling out in a warm kitchen with hot hands, are far more likely to be the conditions under which the national dessert is prepared for the table. If this is the case with the outer garment, what shall be said of the inte- rior construction of the pie ? The well known school-boy doggerel, — “ I hate, abhor, detest, depise. Abominate dried apple pies ! Tread on my toes and tell me lies, But don’t give me dried apple pies ! ”236 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. only voices the sentiment of many older people, but in spite of that, few and far between are the homes where this dish fails to make its appear- ance. With other varieties the faults are no less glaring. Unsweetened berries, flour thickened custard, acid rhubarb, lumpy squash or pumpkin are equally uninviting. ‘^Call that a pumpkin pie ! ” exclaimed a vigorous and somewhat pro- fane Irish cook. “ Shure, a good pumpkin pie should have eggs an’ milk an’ sugar an’ spices in it, an’ divil a thing is there in that one ixcipt pei^per an’ pumpkin ! ” With all these expensive materials, it may read- ily be seen that pies are about as costly a dessert as can be served by peojfle of moderate means. And the pull is not upon the pocket nerve alone. The foundation for the dyspepsia too common among all classes of Americans has in many instances had pie for its chief corner - stone. Whipped creams, jellies, trifles, custards, and fruit dishes are easily prepared, and are less heating both to the makers and the eaters thereof than pastry in any form. The housewife who attempts reform in this re- spect cannot be promised an easy task. It is per- haps hardly natural that the tastes vitiated by years of tough pastry should turn gratefully to less substantial and more wholesome desserts. The transition must be effected gradually. When the traditional triangle or square of pie is alter- nated with inviting puddings, delicate jellies and237 SUMMER DESSERTS. custards, and tempting preparations of fruit, the variation is not so apt to provoke unfavorable comment as if the order of things were reversed at a blow. Among summer desserts, fruit dishes justly hold the foremost place. With the wealth of small fruits which may often be had for the picking in the country and may be purchased for a merely nominal sum in the city, there is no excuse for lack of variety during berry season. There are so many easy yet delicious combinations in which these can be prepared that there need be no oc- casion for the complaint of monotony that is sometimes called forth by the periodical appear- ance of berries, pure and simple, upon the table. With the arrival of peaches, pears, and harvest apples, fresh opportunities come for the manu- facture of dainty dishes. The two seasons often overlap each other, but when there is a hiatus between them, it may readily be filled by exer- cising a little ingenuity in the concoction of plain and appetizing desserts. The task is made es- pecially light in summer, for then eggs are at their cheapest and cream is plentiful. In the country it can generally be bought for twenty-five cents a quart, and even at city creameries it rarely costs more than forty cents a quart. Taking it for granted that no family will ever be without a Dover egg beater, the whipping of the cream is a mere nothing. With a pint of plain cream whipped light, plenty of eggs, fresh fruit, and238 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. practiced handling, no housekeeper need be at loss for wholesome and tempting desserts. Sponge cake, fresh or stale, forms a basis for many of the most delicate dishes. It is one of the least expensive and most easily made cakes, requiring only careful measuring or weighing, quick mixing and judicious baking, to be a suc- cess. The recipe given below, if closely followed, will yield results in the highest degree satis- factory. One great advantage possessed by the dishes for which directions are appended is that they can all be prepared in the morning while the day is fresh and cool and before the heat of a summer noontide combines with that of a cooking stove to render a kitchen almost intolerable. Dorchester Sponge Cake. Six eggs. Two cups powdered sugar. Two cups prepared flour. One saltspoonful salt. Juice and grated rind of a lemon. Beat the yolks very light and smooth with the sugar, and the juice and rind of the lemon, next the whites, whipped to a stiff froth, and last the salted flour. Stir as little as possible after putting in the flour. Bake in a moderate oven, and do not touch the stove, if it can be avoided, for fifteen or twenty minutes. Unless you are very sure of your oven,239 SUMMER DESSERTS. it is a wise precaution to lay a sheet of brown paper on the top of your pan, removing it long enough before taking out the cake to allow this to brown lightly. Sponge Cake Custards. Stale sponge cake, cut in slices. One cup marmalade, jam, or sweet jelly. T^hree eggs. Three cups milk. Half cup sugar. A small pinch soda in the milk. Heat the milk to scalding in a double boiler, add the sugar, and pour both, a little at a time, upon the beaten yolks of the eggs. Heturn to the fire and cook until it begins to thicken, stirring constantly. Add a teaspoonful of vanilla after the custard is taken from the stove, and set it aside to cool. Spread each piece of cake thickly with marmalade and arrange the slices in the bottom of a glass dish. When the custard is cool, pour it over the cake and on top heap the whites, beaten to a meringue with a tablespoonful of sugar. Set on the ice until needed and eat very cold. The dish may be made more elaborate by pouring a glassful of sherry over the cake before adding the custard. Coffee Charlotte Russe. One pint sweet cream. One third package gelatine.240 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. One cup powdered sugar. Half cup strong black coffee. Enough sponge cake to line a mould. Soak the gelatine for one hour in barely enough cold water to cover it. Add to it just sufficient boiling water to dissolve it thoroughly. Whip the cream with a Dover egg beater, re- moving the froth to a colander with a spoon from time to time. When it is all beaten, stir in the partially formed gelatine with the back of the bowl of the spoon. Do this lightly, and when the gelatine is fairly incorporated add the sugar and coffee, a little at a time. Have ready your mould, lined with the slices of cake. The plainer the mould, the easier will be the task of turning out the completed charlotte. A plain brick-shaped bread pan answers the purpose admirably. Pour in the whip and set it aside in a cold place that the gelatine, the cohesive element, may have an opportunity to harden. Once firm, it will stand perfectly twenty-four hours, if kept cool. This makes a delicious Sunday dessert, as it can be be prepared the day before. Berries Caches. One quart berries. One pint sweet cream. One cupful fresh milk. One large stale sponge cake. Scoop out the inside of the cake, taking care not to break the bottom or side walls. These241 SUMMER DESSERTS. should be about an inch thick. Place the cake in the dish from which it is to be served and pour over it a cupful of rich milk, gently and slowly, that the cake may be thoroughly moistened. Cream is even better, if it can be readily ob- tained. In the opening left by the removal of the crumbs, heap raspberries, red or black, sprinkling them lightly with powdered sugar. When berries are gone, sliced peaches can be sub- stituted. Whip the cream light and pile it over all. If the sponge cake is of impracticable shape, it can be sliced, a dish lined with it, and the fruit placed in the centre. Raspberry and Currant Jelly. One pint whipped cream. One pint red raspberries. Half pint currants. Half package Coxe’s gelatine. Five cups powdered sugar. Soak the gelatine two hours in half a cup of cold water. Add to it the sugar and half a cup of boiling water. Kub the berries through a col- ander into the jelly, and strain both through a thick cloth. Set to form in a mould with a funnel in the middle. When cold, turn out and heap whipped cream about the jelly and in the opening left by the funnel.242 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Rasphemj Blanc-mange. One quart rasiDberries. Half a package Coxe’s gelatine, soaked in half a cup cold water. Two cups powdered sugar. One pint sweet cream. Crush the raspberries with a wooden spoon to extract the juice and stir into this the soaked gelatine and the sugar. Add half a cup of boiling water, strain, add to it the cream, and set on the ice to form. Raspberry Snow. One pint red raspberries. Whites of four eggs. Half package gelatine soaked in half a cup cold water. One cup powdered sugar. One cup boiling water. One pint whipped cream. Add to the soaked gelatine the sugar and boil- ing water, strain, and set aside to cool. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, and when the jelly is nearly firm, whip this into the frothed whites. Stir in the berries just before pouring the mixture into a melon-shaped mould. Heap the whipped cream about it, after turning it out. Burnt Cream. Yolks of four eggs. One pint cream. One cup sugar. One teaspoonful cornstarch.SUMMER DESSERTS. 243 Heat the cream to boiling and pour upon the yolks of the eggs beaten light with the sugar. Return to the hre, cook, stirring constantly for ten minutes, pour into a glass dish, and flavor with vanilla to taste. Put a tablespoonful of granulated sugar into a tin cup, set on the stove and brown, adding boiling water to prevent its becoming too thick. Pour over the cream when both are cold. In this, as in all other creams, cus- tards, or blanc-manges containing milk or cream, the cooking should be done in a double boiler. Rice Trifle. One cup and a half raw rice. Two quarts boiling water. One cup jam or marmalade. One pint whipped cream, slightly sweetened. Wash the rice well and throw it into the water, which must be boiling hard. Avoid stirring, but shake the saucepan well occasionally. Do not relax the violence of the boil for at least ten min- utes, or until the grains of rice are soft when pinched between the thumb and finger. This point reached, drain off the water, and set the rice in a colander over a vessel of boiling water. Let it steam for twenty minutes, when it will be ten- der without being pasty. Have ready seven or eight tumblers or cups, wet with cold water. Fill these about half full of rice, pressing it down firmly, and set them aside. When cold, turn out into a glass dish and with a sharp knife cut a244 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. little hollow in the top of each. Put in this a spoonful of the conserve and arrange the rest about the base of the hillocks. Heap the whipped cream over all. Peach Cream. One can peaches. Half package gelatine. One quart milk. Pour eggs. One cup powdered sugar. Soak the gelatine two hours in half a cup of cold water. Heat the milk to boiling, add the yolks of the eggs beaten lightly with the sugar, and take from the fire. Dissolve the soaked gela- tine in a little boiling water and strain into the custard, taking pains to mix them thoroughly. Drain the juice from the peaches, add half as much water and one cupful of sugar, and set over the fire. When the syrup thickens, drop in the peaches cut into quarters. Stew gently ten min- utes and put aside to cool. When the cream is nearly firm, wet a plain mould and put in a cup- ful of the cream, then a layer of the peaches, al- ternating cream and peaches until the mould is full. Let it stand several hours on the ice, turn out and pour about the base the syrup and a stiff meringue made of the whites of the eggs beaten with a little powdered sugar.245 SUMMER DESSERTS. Peach Shortcake. One egg. One cupful sugar. One cup milk. Two cups and a half of flour. Two teaspoonfuls baking powder. A pinch of salt. One tablespoonful butter. One cup sweet cream. Sift the flour and stir into it the sugar, salt, and baking powder, then the milk. Add to these the egg, without beating it, and the butter melted in a little hot water. Beat all well and bake in jelly cake tins. Slice the peaches, crush slightly with the back of a spoon, and place between the layers of cake, sprinkling with powdered sugar. For the top cake have ready the cream, whipped firm, and stud this thickly with sliced peaches. If the cream is not obtainable, the whites of three eggs whisked to a stiff meringue with a little sugar will prove an excellent substitute. Berries may be used instead of peaches, when the latter are not available.CHAPTER XX. FOOD FOR THE SICK, BOUILLONS AND BROTHS. So many exhaustive treatises have been penned upon diet for the sick that it would seem hardly probable that there are homes where the ques- tions of what to give the patient, and how to pre- pare the nourishing diet prescribed by the physi- cian, should be matters for troubled consideration. There are few households in which the duty of catering to the capricious desires of the sufferer is not felt to be more of a pleasure than a task. Frequently, however, the best intentions are sadly hampered by lack of knowledge, and, with all the good will in the world, the dishes prepared for the invalid are insipid and unattractive. The cook has to contend with languor and partial or total dearth of appetite, caused by confinement to room and bed, as well as with other effects of disease. Under these circumstances it is the more neces- sary that no means should be left untried to ren- der the meals dainty and tempting. The najdiin covering the tray should be spotless, silver, glass, and china shining in their cleanliness. A flower laid beside plate or cup is a cheering adjunct.247 FOOD FOB THE SICK. Avoid the risk of discouraging the patient by pre- senting food in large quantities. The weak stom- ach requires coaxing. Small meals, frequently taken, are both more wholesome and more wel- come than tri-daily “ crams.” In all the medical dietary, broths hold pre- eminence as nourishing food. Properly prepared, they may be palatable and strengthening, and are especially valuable in cases of cold, prostration, and general debility. Where febrile symptoms prevail, no animal food should be given without the advice of the attending physician. In serving soup to an invalid a bowl will be found preferable to a plate, as the broad surface of the latter allows its contents to become cool on their passage from the kitchen to the sick-room. No floating globules of grease on the top of the broth should be allowed to offend the fastidious eye and taste of the invalid. As a rule, if soup is permitted to become perfectly cold, all fat can be readily skimmed off; but should this fail to remove the more minute particles, these can easily be absorbed by laying soft white tissue paper upon the surface of the broth for a few sec- onds, throwing aside one sheet after another, until the last one fails to show any trace of grease. Bouillon. Two pounds lean beef chopped fine. Two quarts cold water. Put the meat on in the cold water, covering248 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. closely, and set the pot where it will not boil un- der an hour. Let it simmer for five or six hours, never coming to a hard boil. When the liquid is reduced to one half the original quantity, take from the fire and allow the soup to cool upon the meat. Strain through a coarse cloth, squeezing the meat until every drop of juice is extracted. Carefully remove the fat, after the soup has cooled, and return the bouillon to the fire. When it reaches the boiling point, stir in the white and crushed shell of an egg, boil half a minute, skim, and strain once more. Heat in small quantities as it is needed. To those who prefer bouillon cold and almost jellied, this result can be achieved either by boil- ing a knuckle of veal with the beef, or, if this is not desired, by adding Coxe’s gelatine to the liquid after the first straining in the proportion of half a box to a quart of the beef tea. Soak the gela- tine for an hour in enough cold water to cover it, and stir into the bouillon just before clearing it with the white of egg. Serve ice cold. Chicken Bouillon. Select a well-grown fowl — an old one will an- swer the purpose better than a spring chicken — and pound and chop with a hatchet into small pieces, breaking the bones thoroughly. Follow the directions given for beef bouillon with the ex- ception of clearing with white of an egg. Observe the same precautions in the removal of all floating grease.FOOD FOR THE SICK. 249 Chicken Jelly Can be made by allowing small quantities of the broth to get perfectly cold. It is good spread on toast or thin bread and butter. A very pleas- ant variety of broths may be prepared with this stock as a foundation. Chicken and Rice Broth. To one cupful of the hot soup allow' half a cup of cooked rice. This may be made still more nour- ishing by decreasing the quantity of rice and add- ing a couple of tablespoonfuls of rice and one w'-ell beaten egg. For those to whom rice is unpalata- l^e, tapioca or sago may be substituted. The lat- ter is good in case of colds. Veal and Tapioca Broth. One pound well cracked veal bones. One quart water. Let the bones and water simmer for several hours, until the liquid is reduced one half. When cold, strain and skim. Keturn to the fire, with two tablespoonfuls of soaked tapioca, and boil gently half an hour longer. Add three table- spoonfuls of cream and an egg beaten light and cook five minutes. Barley Cream Broth. One pound lean veal, chopped. One quart cold water. One cup pearl barley.250 LIBERAL LIVING UFON NARROW MEANS. Put veal, barley, and water into a covered sauce- pan, boil down slowly to three cups of brotli, and rub through a sieve. Add salt to taste. Mutton and Rice Broth. Two pounds lean mutton. One pound cracked mutton bones. One quart water. Boil the meat, finely chopped, and the bones until all the nourishment is extracted — the bones clean and the meat white, tasteless shreds. Add one cupful of boiled rice, simmer half an hour, and stir in a little finely minced parsley, half a cupful of milk, and two beaten eggs. Boil fi^e minutes and serve. REGARDING FEVER PATIENTS. When a sick person is recovering from an ill- ness and the proverbial appetite of the convales- cent asserts itself in all its force, the business of supplying food becomes comparatively easy. The nurse has a large assortment from which to choose. But it is when the sufferer is burning with fever or agonizing with nausea that the caterer’s inge- nuity is most severely taxed. The task of pre- paring food that will tempt the appetite and yet not increase the malady is no light one. It is especially difficult in cases of fever. The patient’s strength must be maintained, while at the same time everything that quickens the circulation or excites the system is as fuel to the flame that is251 FOOD FOR THE SICK. consuming him. And this is not the only argu- ment against administering animal food. The prime evil effect of the fever is the drying up of the various healthful juices of the body. The stomach, deprived of the amount of gastric fluid requisite for proper digestion, is unable to dispose of anything but the lightest and simplest forms of nourishment. Neglect or ignorance of this duty of sparing labor to the digestive powers has been responsible for many cases of gastric complica- tion which have not only retarded immediate re- covery, but have borne fruit long afterwards in dyspepsia and kindred complaints. The use of milk in febrile disorders is of com- paratively recent date. The practice of keeping typhoid patients alive for weeks on an almost exclusively milk diet was regarded as a startling innovation, but its success has been the best argu- ment in its favor. The drinking of hot milk as a remedy for bov/el troubles has also been proved when the threatenings of cholera have been heard among us. A glass of this, as hot as it can be sw'allowed, taken at each meal, to the exclusion of every other beverage, has been known to act like a charm as an antilaxative. The prescription of milk and lime water in cases of obstinate nausea is time-honored. The fever patient’s bill of fare is of necessity limited, but by the exercise of care and thought- fulness it may be made much less unattractive than would appear at first. The precautions of252 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. daintiness of serving are doubly important where there is a natural revulsion from food, and the desire for it, or even the endurance of it, has to be created. It is wel] that where extreme moder- ation is advisable nature guards against the dan- ger of imprudently hearty feeding by implanting a disinclination to the substantial nourishment craved in health. Milk and Lime Water. To four teaspoonfuls of milk put one of lime water and give to the patient ice cold. This is especially valuable in cases of prolonged nausea, as the stomach rarely fails to retain this, even when it rejects everything else. Milk and Vichy Water. To two thirds of a glass of milk add one third of a glass of Vichy water. This is most refresh- ing taken very cold, but the milk may be heated to boiling and then tempered by the Vichy. Peptonized Milk. Dissolve twenty grains of bicarbonate of soda and five grains of the extract of pancreas (the lat- ter prepared by Fairchilds Brothers & Foster) in a half cup of warm water, poured into a large, wide-mouthed bottle. Add to this two cups of fresh milk, cork the bottle tightly, shake well, and set in a warm place for an hour. The tem- perature should not go above 100°. At the end253 FOOD FOR THE SICK. of the hour set on the ice until needed. ]\Iilk prepared in this manner can be taken by those with whom the beverage disagrees when drunk in its natural state. Milk Porridge. One pint milk. Two tablespoonfuls flour. Heat half the milk to boiling, and stir into it the flour mixed smoothly into the remaining cold milk. Boil steadily half an hour, and salt to taste five minutes before removing from the fire. Indian Meal Gruel. One quart boiling water. Half a cup sifted Indian meal. Wet up the meal with a little cold water, and stir it gradually into the boiling water. Boil slowly for two hours, stirring often. The secret of making palatable gruel lies in cooking it thor- oughly. Before removing from the fire beat well with a Dover egg beater, thus breaking up all lumps. Strain, salt, and pepper to taste. The latter condiment must not be given to fever pa- tients. Oatmeal gruel may be prepared in the same manner. Panada. Two half slices stale bread. One tablespoonful white sugar. Salt to taste. A little cinnamon or nutmeg. One small teacupful boiling water.254 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Lay the bread in a china bowl, sprinkle with the salt, sugar, and spice. Pour over all the boil- ing water, cover with a plate, and set in an open oven for ten minutes. If preferred, split Boston crackers can be used instead of bread, but these must lie in the hot water half an hour. Panada is soothing in cases of painful sore throat. Dry Toast. Cut a slice of moderately stale bread about half an inch thick. Trim off the crust, and toast quickly over a clear fire, taking great care not to scorch the bread. Butter very lightly, or not at all, and serve immediately after it is made. Meringued Toast. Dip a freshly toasted slice of bread into boiling water, slightly salted, and lay in a bowl or deep saucer. Pour over it a sauce made of half a cup of boiling milk, a teaspoonful of butter and the stiffly whipped white of an egg, the latter stirred in just before the milk is taken from the fire. Set in the oven for five minutes until the mer- ingue is delicately browned. Toast with Chicken Bouillon. Lay a crustless slice of toast in a deep dish, and pour over it a cupful of chicken bouillon, made as above directed. Let it stand in the oven for a few moments before serving.FOOD FOR THE SICK. 255 EGGS, CEREALS, ARROWROOT, AND WAFERS. The element of the unexpected should always be brought into play in catering for the sick. It may be laid down as an excellent rule never to ask a sick person what he wishes to eat. While it may be well occasionally to inquire if he has a longing for any particular delicacy, avoid sug- gesting articles of food. Far better provide the dainty, even with the risk of its failing to please. Study little surprises, and be careful not to make too much of a run upon one kind of food. An in- valid’s taste wearies of monotony in diet much more readily than would that of a well person, and a disgust of this sort once formed is almost impossible to eradicate. One case may be men- tioned where the constant use of eggs by a con- valescent engendered in her a distaste for them that never wholly disappeared. Another invalid acquired a disrelish for broiled quail, while a third, after recovery from a long illness never could bear the taste of oysters in any form. Drop-ped Eggs on Toast. Have ready in a shallow saucepan two cupfuls of boiling water, slightly salted. Break the egg carefully into this, and cook until the white has formed firmly about the yolk. Take from the water with a skimmer, and lay on a crustless slice of buttered toast. Salt and pepper lightly, and serve very hot.256 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Meringued Egg. Whip the white of an egg veiy light, heat it in a scallop shell or small flat dish, salt and pepper, and then lay the yolk in the centre of the white. Stand the dish in the oven until the yolk is set and the white a delicate brown. If the patient is allowed meat, a crisply broiled slice of breakfast bacon will be found an appetizing accompani- ment. Baked Omelet. Beat separately and extremely light the yolks and whites of three eggs, and then stir together until they are partially mixed. Add half a tea- spoonful — no more — of cornstarch, dissolved in three tablespoonfuls of milk, and a little salt. Pour into a well buttered baking dish, and cook in a quick oven for from five to eight minutes, or until Arm. Serve immediately. When a very small omelet is required a single egg may be pre- pared in the same manner, and baked in a good sized scallop shell. The quantity of milk and corn- starch must, of course, be reduced in proportion. Arrowroot Jelly. To two teacupfuls of boiling water, add four teaspoonfuls of Bermuda arrowroot, rubbed smooth in a little water. Let the mixture boil up once, and then remove it from the fire. Cool in cups or jelly glasses. Eat with powdered sugar and cream. Some people prefer to have the cream flavored with a little vanilla., lemon, or rosewater.257 FOOD FOR THE SICK. Sago Jelly. Soak a tablespoonful of sago in lukewarm water for one hour. Stir this into a cup of boil- ing water, slightly sweetened, and simmer for five minutes. Eat cold, with cream and sugar. Wafers. One cup flour. One saltspoonful salt. Two teaspoonfuls butter. Half a cup milk. Sift the salt with the flour, work in the butter, and add milk until you have a stiff dough. Eoll out very thin, cut into rounds with a biscuit cut- ter, and roll these again until they are of the thickness of writing paper. Bake quickly and lightly in a floured pan, using great care to pre- vent burning. These are delicious eaten with broth or with any preparation of milk. t Oatmeal Porridge. This is usually considered a very simple dish, but owing to the different preparations of the grain in the market, it is rather difficult to give one set of directions that will apply to all varie- ties. The steam-cooked oatmeal does not require more than half an hour’s simmer in a double boiler to be ready for the table, while the ordi- nary brands of oatmeal need three or four hours steady cooking. If the porridge is needed early in the morning, it is advisable to put the meal in258 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. soak in warm water on the back of the stove the night before, drawing it forward where it will cook more briskly as soon as the fire is started in the morning. To half a cup of oatmeal, soaked in barely enough water to cover it, add a scant pint of boiling water. Cook without stirring until just before removing from the fire, when add salt to taste, and beat thoroughly for two minutes. Some people prefer to have the stirring omitted entirely, but it prevents lumps in the porridge. Cracked wheat may be prepared in the same manner. Hominy boiled in Milk. To a half cup of hominy, add enough water to cover it fairly, and cook gently half an hour in a double boiler. Drain off the water, and pour on in its place a cup and a half of hot milk. Boil slowly half an hour longer, or until tender. Serve with cream and sugar. Rice Boiled in Milk, with Egg. Wash thoroughly in two waters one half cup of rice. Put into a saucepan with at least three pints of boiling water. Cook hard for fifteen min- utes, or until the grains begin to soften, shaking often, but never stirring. When a grain can be easily mashed between the thumb and finger, drain off the hot water. Pour over the rice two cups of boiling milk into which a beaten egg has been whipped. Simmer gently ten minutes, salt to taste, and remove from the fire.CHAPTER XXI. FOOD FOR THE SICK {continued). CHICKEN, STEAK, AND CHOPS. The embargo on animal food removed by the convalescence of the patient, much of the diffi- culty in providing a pleasing variety vanishes. Still, certain restrictions remain. All fried food must be most carefully avoided. The oft-repeated story of St. Lawrence having attained sanctity by a gridiron, and that in so doing he conferred upon that implement the power of making better every- thing prepared upon it, by no means applies to the frying-pan. It is labor enough for the vigor- ous stomach of a person of active habits to digest fried food, but the task becomes almost an impos- sibility to the delicate gastric organs of one who is just recovering from illness, and is unable to indulge in any but the slightest exercise. Let the convalescent’s food, then, be prepared by stewing roasting, or broiling; these afford a sufficiently wide scope for the most exacting palate. As a beverage for the invalid when no longer bound to a milk diet, cocoa is pleasant and nourishing.260 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Chicken Broiled in the Oven. Prom a young cliicken, cut a drumstick and second joint, or, if the invalid prefers light meat, the wing and part of the breast. Should there be any doubt as to the tenderness of the chicken, lay the piece on a gridiron or toaster resting over a pan of boiling water set on top of the stove and let it steam, closely covered, for half an hour be- fore broiling. This done, lay the j)ortion in a clean, warm dripping-pan, and set this in a mod- erately hot oven; turn two or three times, rub- bing with butter at each turn until the chicken is done. It is claimed that the juices are preserved more thoroughly by this mode of cooking than by broiling over an open fire. Barbecued Chicken. Prepare a sauce of two teaspoonfuls of melted butter, one tablespoonful of vinegar, one salt- spoonful of white sugar, the same of made mus- tard, and a dash of salt and pepper; heat to boil- ing ; pour over the broiled chicken and let it stand covered in a warm place for five minutes before serving. Stewed Chicken. It seems to be a belief among some cooks that it is impossible to fricassee less than a whole chicken. A half or a quarter of a fowl can, how- ever, be prepared in this manner, and the invalid be spared the monotony of a series of meals at261 FOOD FOR THE SICK. which the meat, dish is the same until the over- generous supply is exhausted. Lay the pieces to be stewed in a saucepan; pour in just enough cold water to cover them ; put on a closely fitting to|) and cook slowly until tender; add four table- spoonfuls of milk, one beaten egg, and a teaspoon- ful of butter; boil up once and serve. Minced Chicken on Toast. Stew part of a chicken until tender. Eemove the meat from the bones and cut with a sharp knife into inch square pieces ; thicken the gravy in which it was stewed with a teaspoonful of but- ter rolled in one of flour; add a little milk and season to taste. Heat the mince in this sauce, and pour over crustless slices of lightly buttered toast. Cold fricasseed chicken may be warmed up in this style. Broiled Beefsteak. Select a piece of tenderloin cut nearly an inch thick; broil over a clear, hot fire for about ten minutes, turning often. The patient’s preference for rare or well-done meat must to some extent regulate the length of time allotted to its cooking. Eare beef is always more nourishing. When the steak is done, butter it well, pepper and salt a.nd let it stand covered for a few moments before serving. Water-cresses are a pretty garnish and an excellent appetizer.262 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Mutton or Lamb Chops May be prepared in tlie same manner. Be care- ful to remove all superfluous fat before cooking. A pleasant accompaniment to a chop is a single baked tomato. Cut off the top, and without break- ing the skin, remove the pulp from the inside : mix this with fine bread crumbs, pepper, salt, but- ter, and a very little sugar; return to the tomato shell, cover and bake to a light brown. Broiled Venison. Cook on a well-buttered gridiron, turning often, for about fifteen minutes ; lay in a hot dish, pep- per and salt lightly, and butter generously. Al- low a liberal teaspoonful of currant jelly to a small steak, and let it stand covered until the melted butter and jelly have soaked thoroughly into the meat. Serve very hot. Warming Over. When practicable, it is best to cook chicken, steak, etc., just as it is needed, but when, as some- times happens, a dainty bit is left over, there is no reason why it should not be warmed up, and yet be appetizing. Instead of heating the meat in the oven, thus drying it out and making it tasteless, the cold remnant should be placed in a closely covered saucer or tin pan, and this set over a kettle of boiling water. The steam warms the meat and also preserves the juices.263 FOOD FOR THE SICK. OYSTERS, SWEETBREADS, BIRDS. Many a dainty repast has been spoiled for an invalid by having its consumption “ assisted at ” by several well meaning friends or relatives. Nothing injures the appetite sooner than for the eater to be the centre of observation of even the most kindly eyes. Not that the invalid should be compelled to take his meals alone. There is al- ways some one, mother, wife, or sister, who can be at hand to supply deficiencies and to keep up a lively chat that will brighten rather than fatigue her charge. Above all, let distressing topics be rigorously shunned. A little worry that appears a mere bagatelle to a sound mind in a sound body, swells to mammoth proportions when it is turned over and over in the flagging brain of one shut in with his own thoughts from the outer world. Roast Oysters. Wash the shell oysters and lay them on the top of a stove, or in a shovel placed directly on the coals. The shells will open when the oysters are done. Serve with butter, salt, and pepper, and, if desired, lemon juice, and cut thin bread and but- ter to eat with them. If there is a stove or open fire in the sick room, it is best to roast the oysters there, as by this course they may be served smok- ing hot.264 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Milk Stew of Oijsters. Heat the liquor from half a pint of oysters, season, and when boiling hot put the oysters in it. Cook three minutes, add two teaspoonfuls of butter, and half a cup of hot milk. Take at once from the fire. Oysters prepared in this manner will be found juicier and of finer flavor than those which have been suffered to stew longer. Broiled Oysters. Select larger oysters than those used for stew- ing. Wipe them dry and broil quickly upon a buttered gridiron over a hot fire. Butter lightly before serving. They are also good if rolled in fine cracker crumbs before cooking. Pan Boast of Oysters. Lay a thin slice of buttered toast, moistened with oyster liquor, in the bottom of a rather deep patty pan with smooth sides. Place on the toast as many oysters as the pan will conveniently hold, butter, pepper, and salt, and roast, covered, in the oven until the oysters ruffle. Roast Sweetbread. Parboil a fine, large sweetbread and let it lie in cold water for ten minutes. Wipe dry and roast, covered, in a dripping pan, basting frequently with butter. Serve hot.265 FOOD FOR THE SICK. Stewed Sweetbreads. Parboil one large or two small sweetbreads and throAV into cold water. When quite firm, cut into quarters and stew in a very little water until ten- der. Add two tablespoonfuls of cream, one tea- spoonful of butter rolled in one of flour, pepper and salt, and cook ten minutes longer. Siveethreads Stewed in Oyster Soup. A pleasant variety may be obtained by cooking the parboiled sweetbreads in a little oyster liquor, adding cream, butter, and seasoning as directed. Broiled Sweetbreads. Parboil, then broil as directed for oysters. If the sweetbread is a large one, cut it in half, that it may cook thoroughly without becoming hard or dry. Quail Boast ivith Oysters. Clean and truss as you would a fowd for roast- ing, but in lieu of other stuffing, thrust a couple of fine, large oysters, rolled in melted butter, in- side of the body. Lay in a dripping pan and sprinkle with salt. Cook, covered, for twenty minutes or until tender, basting frequently with butter and water and then browui. It is well to wrap buttered paper about the legs of the bird that they may not be crisp while the body is still underdone. Lay on a slice of toast.266 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Broiled Squabs. Split down the back and wash in ice-cold water, slightly salted. Wipe dry and broil over a bright tire. Blitter well before serving. Steiued Pigeon. Cut a good sized young pigeon into four pieces and lay in a saucepan with a little cold water. Stew gently until tender. Add a couple of table- spoonfuls of milk into which has been stirred a beaten egg, a teaspoonful of butter rubbed into as much flour, pepper and salt. Simmer ten minutes and serve. JELLIES, BLAXC-MAXGES, CUSTARDS. One of the beliefs popularly held concerning the care of sick people, that should long ago have been exploded, is that an invalid will “relish something right off the table,’’ better than he will “ sick folks’ messes.” This may be true in a few rare instances, but the fact remains that the ap- petite of nearly every convalescent is apt to be tempted by some delicacy prepared expressly for him, rather than by a portion of the food served at the family board. There is something, too, in the thought of the loving consideration that ])rompted the concoction of the special dainty which lends a flavor not to be imparted to food cooked without particular reference to the one who should occupy, for the time being, the most important position in the house.267 FOOD FOR THE SICK. Abstain from overloading a patient’s plate. This caution is peculiarly necessary with sweets, as a surfeit of these is apt to cause future aver- sion. Lemon Jelly. Soak half a package of Coxe’s gelatine in one large cup of cold water, for one hour. Stir into this one cup of sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the grated peel of one, and add two cups of boiling water. Strain, without squeezing, into a wet mould. Orange Jelly Is good made in the same manner, substituting the juice and peel of tart oranges for those of lemons, and lessening the quantity of water. This dish can be rendered attractive to an inva- lid by halving a large orange and carefully scrap- ing out with a spoon every particle of pulp. Rinse with cold water, and set the jelly to form in these. Trim off the skin where the jelly shrinks from it in oooling, and serve without turning out of the improvised moulds. Claret Jelly. To half a box of Coxe’s gelatine soaked in one cup of water, add one cup of sugar, one of claret, one of boiling water, and a pinch of cinnamon. Strain into glasses or small moulds. When it is intended for an invalid, this mode of forming is preferable to having the whole amount made into one large shape.i2G8 LIBERAL LIVING UPON NARROW MEANS. Coffee Jelly. Half a box gelatine. One cup sugar. One cup strong coffee. One cup boiling water. Proceed as directed in the former recipes. Tea jelly, in which strong mixed tea is used instead of coffee, is very refreshing. All jellies should be served ice cold. Whipped cream may be served with any of them. Tapioca Jelly. One half cup of pearl tapioca, soaked all night in two cups of cold water. Pour into a double boiler, and cook slowly until clear. If desired, thin with a little hot water. Add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and after the mixture is removed from the fire, the juice of a lemon. Serve cold with sugar and cream. Tap)ioca Blanc-mange. Into a cup and a half of boiling milk stir a pinch of soda and half a cup of sugar. When these are dissolved, add one half cup of tapioca which has been soaking all night in a scant cup- ful of cold water, slightly salted. Stir until clear, watching closely that no lumps form. Flavor, and mould in wet tumblers.FOOD FOR THE SICK. 269 Arrowroot Blanc-mange. One cup boiling milk. Two lieaping teaspoonfuls Bermuda arrowroot, rubbed smooth with a little cold milk. One teaspoonful sugar, dissolved in the milk. Stir the wet arrowroot into the hot milk; boil for one minute, and remove from the fire. Add half the juice of a lemon, and set to mould in cups or glasses. Plain Blanc-mange. Heat to boiling one cup and a half of milk; add to it half a cup of sugar, a pinch of soda and one of salt, and last stir in a third of a box of gelatine which has been soaked until tender in a small half pint of water. Boil five or ten minutes, stirring frequently; flavor to taste, and strain through a flannel or thick cloth into a wet mould. Eat very cold with sugar and cream. When the patient is permitted to eat brandied peaches, they make an appetizing combination, served with the blanc-mange. Boiled Custards. Heat in a double boiler, one pint of milk, into which has been dropped a tiny pinch of soda. Beat the yolks of two eggs light with a scant half cup of sugar, and pour the scalding milk grad- ually upon them. jMix well, and return to the fire; cook ten minutes, stirring constantly, until the custard thickens. When cool, flavor to taste and pour into glasses. AVhip the whites of the270 LIBERAL LIVING UFON NARROW MEANS. two eggs light with a very little powdered sugar, and heap the meringue on the custard in the glasses. If only a small quantity is desired, use half the proportions given. Tapioca Custard. Soak two tablespoonfuls of pearl tapioca four or five hours in half a cup of water. Heat two cups of milk to boiling, and stir in the tapioca. Let it simmer some time, stirring often, until the tapi- oca is translucent and thoroughly tender. When it has reached this stage, pour it on the yolks of two eggs, whipped with three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Put back into the farina kettle and sim- mer until the custard is done. Turn into a bowl, flavor, and stir in lightly the whipped whites. Eat very cold.INDEX Almonds, salted, 59. Ambrosia, 49. Apple, canned, 193. pancakes, 136. Asparagus rolls, 63. on toast, 78. Bananas, fried, 29. Beans, French, with sausages, 36. kidney, with sauce, 44. Lima, 49, 88. string, 74. string, creamed, 139. string, garnished with brains, 123. string, saut^, 105. Beef, ^ la jardiniere, 6, 179. k la mode, 87, 178. corned, 30, 149. curried, 212. heart, stewed, 43. minced, au gratin, 181. mounded, 206. potted, 195. pot roast, 3, 180. pressed, 89. savory stew of, 58. scalloped, 152. Beefsteak, broiled, 261. pudding, 137. rolled. 179. Beets, pickled, 38. sliced, 142. young, 83. Berries caches, 240. Bisque, lobster, 28. tomato, 2. Blackberries and cream. 111. Blanc-mange, arrowroot, 269. jonquil, 35. plain, 269. raspberry, 242. tapioca, 268. Bluefish, boiled, 121. Bouillon, 220, 247. chicken, 248. Broth, barley cream, 249. chicken and rice, 249. mutton, 12, 64. mutton and rice, 250. veal and tapioca, 249. Brown Betty, 13. Cake, almond cream, 144. banana, 168. cocoanut, 169. Dorchester sponge, 238. English pound, 124. Calf’s head, 123. Candy, 157. Carrots, stewed, 59. Cauliflower, 111, 161. au gratin, 122. Celery, 7. stewed, 5. Charlotte Russe, 128. coffee, 239. Cherries, iced, 77. pickled, 191. Chestnuts, boiled, 147. Chicken, barbecued, 260. boiled, and macaroni, 33. braised, 92. broiled in the oven, 260. brown fricassee of, 73.272 INDEX. Chicken, coddled, 126. creamed, 207. minced, 94. on toast, 261. m<^lange pie, 129. pot-pie, 110. in rice, 75. shortcake, 36. stewed, 260. Chowder, fish, 95. Cod, baked with cheese, 151. boiled, with tomato sauce, 14. Coffee, 164. Cold slaw, 127. creamed, 149, with egg dressing, 4. Corn, boiled, 94. Corn bread, steamed, 67. Corned beef, 30, 149. Corn fritters, 103. and potatoes, 97. pudding, 12. roast, 116. Crackers and cheese, 9, 65. Cream, burnt, 242. peach, 244. Croquettes, oyster, 167. rice, 127, 150. Croutons, 59. Crullers, 168. Cucumbers, fried, 109. sliced, 92. Custard, almond tapioca, 143. tapioca, 270. Custards, boiled, 269. chocolate, 63. sponge cake, 239. Duck, salmi of, with green peas, 102. Ducks, stewed, 101. Dumplings, 10. apple, 122. cherry, 80. peach, 41. potato, 77. Egg-plant, fried, 94. stuffed, 118. Egg, meringued, 256. timbales, 81. Eggs, creamed, and bacon, 96. dropped on toast, 255. scalloped, 28. Fritters, corn, 103. orange, 56. Frost fish, with tomatoes, 37. Gingerbread, soft, 153. Ginger snaps, 31. Grape marmalade, 194. Grapes, spiced, 192. Gruel, Indian-meal, 253. Halibut, baked, 104. curried, 132. potted, 195. Ham, barbecued, 12. boiled, 8. and eggs, 65. omelet, baked, 208. Hominy, baked, 27, 40. boiled in milk, 258. Huckleberry roly-poly, 93. Ice-cream, macaroon, 170. tutti-frutti, 170. Irish stew, 174. Jelly, arrowroot, 256. chicken, 249. claret, 2(57. coffee, 268. cranberry, 162. lemon, 5, 267. orange, 267. raspberry and currant, 241, sago, 257. tapioca, 268. Lamb chops, broiled, 262. and potatoes, 83. Lamb, curried, 115. roast, 113. Lettuce, crackers, and cheese, 92. Liver and bacon, 38. and ham, 91. stewed, 55. Lobster bisque, 28. Macaroni, baked, 31.273 INDEX. Macaroni, and cheese, 66. stewed, 147. with tomato sauce, 22. Mackerel, salt, creamed, 24. Mayonnaise dressing, 165. Melons, nutmeg, 117. Milk, and lime-water, 252. peptonized, 252. porridge, 253. and Vichy water, 252. Mince-meat, cider, 163. Mince with poached eggs, 213. Muffins, English, 209. Mutton, baked mince of, 176. barbecued, 175. boiled leg of, 62. braised shoulder of, 175. cach4, 176. chops, baked, breaded, 71. broiled, 262. au frangais, ISO. with eggs, 148, stewed, 176. stewed, and peas, 53. cutlets au fromage, 173. larded shoulder of, 105, pie, 177. potage, 65. pudding, 108. rechauffe, 174. and rice pat^, 64. roast, stuffed, 19. scalloped, 21. stew, with dumplings, 9. Nut cakes, 5. Omelet, baked, 57, 25(5. ham, baked, 208. sausage, 211. Onions, stewed, 80. Orange froth, 135. Oyster and salmon pie, 42. Oyster plant, fried, 129. stewed, 31. Oyster toast, 213, Oystera, broiled, 264. milk stew, 264, panned, 5(5, pan roast, 264. pickled, 221. roast, 155, 263. Panada, 253. Parsnips, creamed, 34. Pastry, 162. Peach conserve, 194. marmalade, 193. Peaches and cream, 105. pickled, unpeeled, 191. Pea pancakes, 27, 111. Peare, baked, 139. seckel, pickled, 192. stewed, with rice, 120. Peas, grreen, 70. Pickerel, baked, 136. Pickles, 191, 192. Pie, cherry, 84. cream peach, 114. currant, 98. green apple, 110. lemon, 20. mince, 162. pineapple, 89. whole peach, 102. Pigeon, stewed, 266. Plums, canned for pies, 193. Porridge, milk, 253. oatmeal, 257. Potato, cannelon of, 39. cones, 10. croquettes, 54. moulded, mashed, 91. puff, 55. with cheese, 209. Potatoes au gratin, 20. au maitre d’hotel, 69. baked. 21. baked, balls, 93. balls, French, 70. boiled, 40. browned, 6, 105. chopped,106. creamed, 62. fried, 16. glazed, 67. hashed wdth cream and browned, 42. mashed, 4. browned, 14. new, 88. savory, 49. scalloped, 138. stripped, 118. stuffed, 29.274 INDEX. Potatoes, toasted, 130. whipped, 34. whole, stewed, 90. Prunes, stewed, 52. Pudding, apple and tapioca, 24. batter, 30. blackberry, 105. bread and apple, 148. marmalade, 39. cabinet, 133. Cerealine Flakes hasty, 44. cornstarch hasty, 23. cottage, 11. peach batter, 119. plain macaroni, 15. rice custard, 54, strawberry meringue, 78. suet, 43. tapioca, 57. white, 95. Quail roast with oysters, 265. Rabbit, barbecued, 26. Raspberries in ambush, 74. Raspberry snow, 242. Rhubarb, stewed, 66. Rice, baked, and tomatoes, 67. boiled, 115. with cheese, 14. in milk, with egg, 258, and raisins, 72. savory, 25. trifle, 243. Rye puffs, 210, Salad, beet, 109, celery, 49, l66. canned chicken, 166. chicken, 221, oyster, 164. shrimp, 167. tomato, 102, 130. Salmon, an gratin, 146. creamed, 210, pickled (canned), 196. scalloped, 108. toa.st, 81. Sandwiches, Pinard, 222, Sauce, 48. caper, 62. Sauce, for pancakes, 137. jelly, 150. mint, 113, pudding, 24, Shad, baked, au gratin, 76. broiled, 70. Shortcake, black raspberry, 97. peach, 245. raspberry, 82. strawberry, 69. Snow, raspberry, 242. Sole, fillet, 51, Soup, barley, 119. bean, 53. beef, with macaroni, 91. chicken, 36. corn, 26. curry, 50. giblet, 75. lentil, 71. macaroni, 79, oyster, 159. pea and tomato, 21. potato, 7, 133. split pea, 18. summer, 107. tomato, 38, vegetable, 82. white, 151. Spinach, 55, 132. shapes, 69. Squabs, broiled, 266. Squash, baked, 89. boiled, 9. fried, 114. scalloped, 11. summer, 82. Steak and mushrooms, 116, Steak, rolled, 15, Steaks, Hamburg, 79. Succotash, 104, 142. canned, 19. Sugar snaps, 214. Sweetbreads, broiled, 265. roast, 2()4. stewed, 265. stewed in oj’ster soup, 265. Sweet potatoes, baked, 11. buttered, 153. Tart, cream raspberry, 90, Tarts, jam, 22.275 INDEX. Toast, dry, 25i. and chicken bouillon, 254. meringued, 254. queen’s, 70. Tomato bisque, 2. salad, 102, 136. Tomatoes, baked, and corn, 106. and corn, 131. scalloped, 16. (fresh), 98, 136. sliced,with Durkee’s dress- ing, 76. stewed, 72. stuffed, 88. Tongue, fresh, boiled, 48. salmi of, with tomato sauce, 50. Turkey, roast, with oyster stuffing, 160. salmi, 212. Turnips, creamed, 13. mashed, 152. pur^e of, 135. Veal, braised, with tomato sauce, 141. chops, 98. croquettes a la creme, 39. curried, 23. minced on toast, 208. olives, 1.34. pat4, 145. ragout, 120. roast shoulder of, 66. squabs, 78. stewed shoulder of, 118. Veal and ham pie, 68. Venison, broiled, 262. Wafers, 257. Warming over, 262.■ JW' *■ !#■' » .. * ' ' •■'* ■r-*'-, .rucT ■'♦fSl ^ - r# ■; • •■'M «' -*?• f :r>H^ 3>ti/b~~^ ' * • ■-«*»-■^ •'*. ,» M * » ♦ iST- - e,. I f ■' S<il. T*» ^ * ■ f 'I i. s<^‘- ‘ v .?- ; ■*:• * '■ ■ A*‘- ' r > •■■ .» V ■" * I <|IWrf41't’t>|V - vV* t , 4'- v» 4(>< ' ^ I I.«abr,4- t. 4- * - : y . ^■■•^ . X yj^ ■f -. “ ♦ 4t V * t t % ', j «. % «r*ousefjolli 33oofes A Descriptive Catalogue of House- hold Books, taken from the Publi- cations of Messrs, Houghton, Mif- flin and Company, Boston and New York, E. Angerstein and G. Eckler. Home Gymnastics, for the Well and the Sick, Adapted to all Ages and both Sexes ; with Directions how to Preserve and Increase Health ; also how to Overcome Conditions of 111 Health, by Simple Move- ments of the Body. Edited by E. Angerstein, M. D., Staff Physician and Superintendent of the Gymna- siums of the City of Berlin, and by G. Eckler, Head Teacher of the Royal Institution for Training Teach- ers of Gymnastics. With many Wood-Cuts and a Figure Plate. Translated from the Eighth German Edition. 8vo, $1.50. The book has the thorough approval of physicians in general, and merits the widest distribution, especially among persons of sedentary occupation, who lack either the time or the inclination to counteract the evil effects of such a life by joining classes or associations for gymnastics. Careful parents will also value the exercises defined for girls; they are particularly well adapted for establishing in children a good and erect carriage, and suppressing in their first stages in- cipient or threatened deformities. . . . The authors also deserve special credit for having confined themselves to such forms of ex- ercise as are most important and most efficacious. They have never lost sight of their purpose to render the proper use of their book independent of all teaching, and consequently everybody can understand it. — National Zeitung.2 Albert J. Bellows. The Philosophy of Eating. New Edition. I2m0, $2.00. An application of the principles of science to hygiene — in other words, sensible directions on diet for the varying ages and classes of men and women. Fannie Nichols Benjamin. The Sunny Side of Shadow. Reveries of a Convalescent. i8mo, $i.oo. Contents : The Doctor ; Patsy Pringle ; Mrs. Runabout; The Harpies; Loving; Friendship; Suggestions of the Sea; Thanksgiving; The Materialist; Presentiments; Christmas Musing ; From Night to Light. Thoughts suggested, plans revolved, anticipations indulged, conclusions formed during a long sickness, and the calm and weary hours of waiting for the return of health. And the thoughts are beautiful and instructive. . . . Their direct tendency is to encour- age faith and hope, to aid in resignation, to infuse comfort. . . . The wish of the author will be realized, and her revery, as thus mirrored back, will touch many another soul with refreshment.— Church Press (New York). If the reader will try to understand what is usually meant by the word womanly, in its gentlest and best sense, he will under- stand us when we say it is a womanly little book. — Mail and Express (New York). Susan Anna Brown. The Invalid’s Tea-Tray. Square i8mo, 50 cents. Seventy-five dainty receipts for the invalid — most delicious jellies and wheys, ices and sherbets, soups and broths, toasts, gruels and porridges, beef teas and egg-nogs, etc. In Bridget’s Vacation. Leaflets on metal • rings, to hang up, 50 cents. On bars and rings, in box, 75 cents. Nothing for the purpose could be more tasteful and handy than these leaves, which, in attractive form, give bills of fare for each day of the week, and plain directions for twenty-one simple meals. They are such as any housekeeper may easily and economically follow with satisfactory results. — Boston Globe.3 li)0ll5£^0lD )15OOI\0 How the Ends Met. i2mo, paper covers, 50 cents. A helpful and useful book.— Woman's Journal. A domestic good angel. — Cincinnati Commercial Gazette. Edward H. Clarke, M. D. Sex in Education; or, A Fair Chance for Girls. i6mo, $1.25. Dr. Clarke has a right to be heard, on account of the study he has made of the physiological principles involved in the discussion, as well as for his extensive practice in cases of disorders arising from a neglect of proper precautions during the school years of our young people. I am prepared to subscribe to every one of his most comprehensive propositions. — Louis Agassiz. I hold substantially the same views [as Dr. Clarke], and have, during my practice of more than twenty years, taught to my pa- tients identical principles of health.— Dr. Marie E. Zakrzewska. The Building of a Brain. i6mo, $1.2$. Contents: Nature’s Working Plans; An Error in Female Building; A Glimpse of English Brain Building. No two books have been written this many a year which to our way of thinking have a more important relation to the physical and mental welfare of the race than these [“ Sex in Education ” and “ The Building of a Brain ”]. — The Indepetident (New York). James Freeman Clarke. Self-Culture: Physical, Intellectual, Moral, and Spiritual. A Course of Lectures. i2mo, $1.50. Twenty-two lectures, discussing in Dr. Clarke’s wise and prac- jtical way the methods of educating the powers of observation, reflection, imagination, conscience, affections, reverence, temper, education, by books, amusements, love of beauty, and seeking of truth. It is thoroughly sensible, helpful, and interesting. One of the most valuable works which can be put into the hands of young men and women. Robert Laird Collier. English Home Life. i6mo, gilt top, $1.00. Contents: House and Home; Mistress and Maid; Court- ship and Marriage; Food and Cooking ; Manners and Customs ; Church and Religion ; Parents and Children.4 J^OUSf£l)Ol0 llBoolvflf This bright little book is interesting in two ways — because the subject treated is of itself interesting, and because it is the work of a bright, independent mind, which looks at things from its own point of view and not from the point of view of what it thinks it ought to think. Charles L. Eastlake. Hints on Household Taste in Furniture, Up- holstery, and other Details. Edited by C. C. Perkins. New Edition. With Illustrations and colored Plates. 8vo, red edges, ^3.00. Respecting the appointments of the house, from the entrance hall to the highest bedroom, Mr. Eastlake gives the most excellent counsels. The paper, the carpets, the table furniture, the picture- frames, the book-cases, the chairs, and secretaries, all are discussed with an intelligent and cultured taste that is simply invaluable to any one who may seek how to make his home more beautiful. — The Independent (New York). Mr. Eastlake remembers that all builders and furnishers of houses are not rich; indeed, he gives especial thought to the thou- sands who greatly desire beautiful things, but must have inexpen- sive ones; and this increases the practical value of the book. — Boston Advertiser. Charles Wyllys Elliott. The Book of American Interiors. Contain- ing Heliotype Views of 22 striking Interiors now ex- isting in this country, including the Libraries of Mr. Longfellow, Mr. Bryant, and Donald G. Mitchell; and noteworthy Halls and Dining-Rooms in Boston, Al- bany, Newport, San Francisco, etc. Comprising, also, 30 smaller Illustrations. With descriptive letterpress and Essays on the Library and Dining-Room. Large 4to, $10.00. In shape, color, and letterpress, the book is most praiseworthy. As to its illustrations, they are eminently good and valuable. . . . The essays which accompany the plates are very agreeably and even learnedly written, and bear pleasantly on the theme of house- hold art, the study of which has become the life-work of their accomplished author. — New York Evening Post. Lucretia P. Hale. Fagots for the Fireside. i2mo, $1.25.5 Charades, literati, anagrams, shouting proverbs, crambo, bean- bag, potato-race, clumps, jacoby, kopak, sapolio, Uncle Sam, and scores of other household games, old and new, with directions for playing, and a pretty love-story winding through them. The unwary person who opens this book will be sorely tempted to drop aH business, call together a company, and straightway fall to playing"the games here described and illustrated. It is the best collection we have seen, and will be a boon to any host or hostess . . . when entertaining young neighbors. Nor are all the games for immature brains; some of them will be found quite a test for older and better trained minds. — Christian Advocate (New York). Elizabeth Karr. The American Horsewoman. With numer- ous Illustrations, Glossary, and Index. Crown 8vo, $2.00. Contents : Introduction ; I. The Horse ; II. The Riding-Habit; HI. The Saddle and Bridle; IV. Mounting and Dismounting; V. The Seat on Horseback; VI. Holding the Reins and Managing the Horse; VII. The Walk; VIII. The Trot, the Amble, the Pace, the Rack; IX. The Canter; X. The Hand Gallop, the Flying Gallop; XI. The Leap, the Standing Leap, the Flying Leap ; XII. Defenses of the Horse, Critical Situations ; Addenda : Thirty-four points to be learned by Equestriennes; Glossary ; Index. “ The American Horsewoman,” by Mrs. Karr, has an especially timely value. Her little book, addressed solely to lady readers, embodies clear and concise teaching gained from many years’ expe- rience in horseback riding at home and abroad. She gives prac- tical hints, illustrated with thirty cuts, on the riding-habit, the sad- dle and bridle, mounting and dismounting, on the “whys and wherefores ” of a proper position in the saddle, and on the man- agement of the horse in walking, jumping, cantering, galloping, leaping, and in critical situations. The book concludes with an appendix containing thirty-four rules that every lady rider ought to be expected to know, and with a glossary of terms used in horsemanship. The letter-press no less than the other features of Mrs. Karr’s book is remarkably attractive.—Boston Advertiser. H. C. Leeds and James Dwight. The Laws of Euchre. As adopted by the Somerset Club, of Boston, March i, 1888. With some Suggestions about the Play. i8fno, 50 cents.6 l^ou6r!)olD 515oofe0 This attractively printed little volume is valuable as containing the latest modifications of the rules of the game, and also abun- dant plain and practical hints for the beginner, with illustrative examples of many fine points with which every ambitious player will be glad to familiarize himself.— The Critic (New York). Harriet Martineau. Household Education. i8mo, ^1.25. Contents : Old and Young in School; What the Schooling is For ; The Natural Possessions of Man; How to Expect; The Golden Mean ; The New Comer ; Care of the Frame ; Care of the Powers ; Will; Hope ; Fear ; Patience — Infirmity ; Love ; Ven- ef^ation; Truthfulness; Conscientiousness; Intellectual Training; its Requisites ; Order of Development — The Perceptive Facul- ties ; The Conceptive Faculties ; The Reasoning Faculties — Fe- male Education ; The Imaginative Faculties ; Care of the Habits — Importance of Habit; Personal Habits ; Family Habits ; Con- clusion. It is worth its weight in gold, a thousand times over, to parents and all who have to bring tip children. — Philadelphia Press (which expressed this opinion in italics). Rev. Theodore T. Munger. On the Threshold. i6mo, gilt top, ^i.oo. A book of thoroughly sensible, judicious, sympathetic, helpful talks to young people on Purpose, Friends and Companions, ^Ian- ners. Thrift, Self-Reliance and Courage, Health, Reading and In- tellectual Life, Amusements, and Faith. It is a book of a type similar to Mr. Clarke’s “ Self-Culture,” and calculated to do a great deal of good wherever it is attentively read, as it can hardly help being by any one who dips into it at all. We wish especially that every young man on the threshold of life might have such a wholesome introduction to its struggles and prizes as this book furnishes.— Christian Register (Boston). Catherine Owen. Ten Dollars Enough. Keeping House Well on Ten Dollars a Week. i6mo, $1.00. A love story and a cook-book in one. ... It is an exact ac- count of how well and how inexpensively it is possible for two persons and one servant to live, if the wife is only intelligent enough and industrious enough to undertake it. It is a most prac- tical and precise instructor about household matters. It renders it possible that love-matches may be made with happiest results. — New York Home Jourtial.7 J^ousfft)olD ^oobs; Molly Bishop’s Family. i6mo, $i.oo. The principal titles of the contents are as follows : — Something about the Baby Spartan Mothers ; Choosing Fur- niture ; What to Do ? Molly engages a Nurse ; Why Freddy Ste- vens cried; Little John arrives, Clouds on Molly’s Horizon, Molly a Widow; Molly’s Third Baby, Ways and Means ; Molly has a New Idea ; Molly takes a House ; Molly in her New House, Be- ginning Business; Molly at Work, Boarders; Molly goes to the Woman’s Exchange; Incomings and Outgoings ; Expedients and Difficulties ; Cheese Cakes, Cold Meat Fie, Cold Meat Fritters, and other Recipes ; Molly’s Success, Her Children’s Education. Gentle Breadwinners. The Story of One of Them. i6mo, $i.oo. Contents : The Question of a Livelihood; Mrs. Bevan’s Pones, Dorothy as a Dressmaker; French Icing, Genoa Cake, Stumbling-Blocks in Dorothy’s Way ; Macaroons, Venetian Cakes, Cucumber Ragout; American Walnut Catsup, Canned Apple Sauce; Mince Meat, Mince Pies, Candied Lemon, Orange Peel; Gateau de Riz, Bevans, Bouchees de Dames, etc.; Portable Chicken Broth and Consomme, Spanish Macaroons, Vanilla Paste; Candy- Making, Caprices of Sugar and Syrup, Failures, and how to avoid them; Dorothy wins a Home and a Husband, Mrs. Garland as a Business Woman; Mock Haggis, Stuffed Lamb’s or Sheep’s Heart, Hashed Liver, Beef Heart Roasted, Stewed Knuckle of Veal, Braised Beef, Pea Soup without Meat, To Fry Bread, Celery Soup, Cucumber Soup, Potato Hash, Mrs. Bevan’s Cream Toast, Cheese Pudding, Bottled Mixed Spice. Catherine Owen is a genius. . . . The object of her book is to show women who have known better days some of the ways in which they may win independence. . . . The book is an incentive and an influence as well as a guide in the right direction. . . . Full of suggestive hints to housekeepers with abundant means as well as to the class for which it is principally intended. — Providence Journal. Progressive Housekeeping. Keeping House without Knowing How, and Knowing How to Keep House Well. i6mo, $i.oo. Contents : A P'ew Introductory Remarks; Order of Work for Monday, with some Instructions good for every Day in the Week ; The Monday Dinner, Washing; Bedroom Work and Ironing; The Ironing Table ; Washing Dishes and Caring for Lamps ; Ex- tra Work for Wednesday; Thursday, Bedroom Sweeping; Tlie Waste of the Household. To Clarify Fat, To Make Soft Soap, etc.8 )15oob0 G. W. R Whist Universal. An Analysis of the Game as improved by the Introduction of American Leads, and adapted to all Methods of Play. i2mo, gilt top, $i.So. It is the purpose of this work to present opinions of European and American authorities upon the conduct of the Game of Whist; to give the history of French, English, and American leads and inventions; to show in what respect the practice in play of former times has been superseded by that of the present; and to apply the instructions of the best writers and players, from Folkestone to Trist, to the proper development of either method of play in vogue at any of the clubs in the country. No whist player who cares to play the game as it ought to be played will neglect “Whist Universal.” It is in its particular comprehensive field without an equal. — Hartford Post. No book is better calculated to aid the beginner or give renewed interest in the game to old players than the one before us.— Chi- cago Tribune. “ Whist Universal” is the most exhaustive and comprehensive treatise on the game which has thus far appeared. — Boston Courier. American, or Standard Whist. Ninth Edi- tion, revised. i6mo, $i.oo. This volume covers the ground so completely, that we do not see how it can fail to become the standard authority among all players in this country. — Saturday Eve?iing Gazette (Boston). We commend this handbook to all lovers of the noble game, as being practical, clear, and full, without falling into prolixity. — Boston Courier. It deserves to be on the tables of all good whist-players in the land. — New York Mail. A capital handbook to the first of all games of cards. — Chicago Tribune. Maria Parloa. First Principles of Household Management and Cookery. A Text-Book for Schools and Families. By Maria Parloa, author of the “Appledore Cook- Book.” i8mo, flexible cloth, 75 cents.9 I^ou0rl)olt) llBocfefif Miss Parloa begins at the beginning, and takes her pupils through a complete course of theoretical and practical instruction, making each step plain and part of a necessary order of progress. Though designed as a text-book, it is well adapted for self-instruction, — the lessons in cookery, especially, being just such as are needed in the ordinary family-life. Miss Parloa has, in a rare degree, the art of imparting instruction, and as she knows so much about house- hold management, she does the public a great service by putting her knowledge at its disposal in so compact and cheap a form. — The Golden Rule (Boston). Elizabeth Stuart Phelps. What to Wear.? i6mo, ^i.oo. Her main arguments in behalf of a more modest and inexpen- sive attire, and suggesting such as is more convenient, more com- fortable, and more healthful, are very strong and very wise. . . . An exceedingly thoughtful, exceedingly valuable, and generally commendable little volume.— Christiajt Intelligencer (New York). Edward Sprague Rand, Jr. Bulbs. Eleventh Edition. Beautifully illus- trated, and with Appendices. i2mo, $2.50. This volume is the only work on the subject, and is an exhaus- tive treatise upon the culture of bulbs. ... A practical and valu- able work like this deserves a large sale. — Boston Daily Adver- tiser. Flowers for the Parlor and Garden. Twenty- sixth Edition. Illustrated. i2mo, $2.50. A complete manual for the cultivation of all plants commonly grown in the parlor, garden, and greenhouse, with notes on Ward- ian Cases, hardy shrubs, and wild flowers. The Window Gardener. Fifth Edition, greatly enlarged. i2mo, J*;i.25. A volume giving descriptions of all plants commonly grown as parlor plants, with directions for their cultivation, and notes on the proper soil, temperature, watering, hanging baskets, ivy, etc. Margaret Sangster. Poems of the Household. i6mo, $1.50. Many of these verses — almost all of which are about homely scenes of Household life — originally appeared in “ Harper’s Monthly,” “ The Christian Intelligencer,” ■ the “ Sunday-School Times,” etc.lO Harriet Prescott Spofford. The Servant Girl Question. i8mo, $i.oo. Contents: The Nature of Service; What’s in a Name? Be- tween the Two Women ; The Conquest of America ; The Stran- ger in the Gates; The Pity of the Kitchen ; The Poetry of the Kitchen; The Prose of the Kitchen; Watch and Ward; Some Causes of the Trouble; Our Male Critics ; Master and Mistress ; Some Remedy ; Help in Macedonia; The Last Resort. Harriet Beecher Stowe. House and Home Papers. i6mo, ^1.50. Contents : The Ravages of a Carpet; Home-Keeping versus House-Keeping ; What is a Home ? The Economy of the Beauti- ful; Raking up the Fire; The Lady who does her own Work; What can be got in America? Economy; Servants; Cookery; Our House ; Home Religion. They make an invaluable volume, and one which should be owned and consulted by every one who has a house, or who wants a home.— The Congregationalist (Boston). Not only the most readable, but the most valuable, articles on common-sense housekeeping to be found in the English language. — Zion's Herald. Little Foxes. i6mo, $1.50. The foxes are seven common household faults, — Fault-Finding, Irritability, Repression, Persistence, Intolerance, Discourtesy, Ex- actingness. Mrs. Stowe has made essays as entertaining as stories, enlivened with wit, seasoned with sense, glowing with the most kindly feeling. The product of experience and ripe thought, they cannot but be of great benefit wherever read. — Hartford Press. The Chimney Corner. i6mo, ^1.50. A series of papers on topics of permanent interest, such as Woman’s Rights and Duties, Health, Amusements, Entertain- ment of Company, Dress, Fashion, Self-Discipline, and Bereave- ment. The set, in box, $4.50. George E. Waring, Jr. The Sanitary Drainage of Houses and Towns. With Diagrams. Tenth Edition, enlarged. i2mo, $2.00.It ought to be in every house and be consulted there. It is worth a dozen of the household “ doctors’ books ” that are treas- ured up by anxious parents against the coming of sickness, for this is intended to keep preventable sickness away altogether. — Hartford Courant. Charles Dudley Warner. Backlog Studies. Essays. Illustrated. Square i6mo, $1.50. Riverside Aldine Edition. i6mo, $1.00, This book discusses in the most charming way such matters as the Furnishing of Rooms, the Progress of Civilization, the Clothes Question, Gothic Architecture in Modern Churches, Life at Con- cord, Speech and Custom in Boston, Social Popularity, Misdirected Energy, and other topics. Kate Gannett Wells. About People. A Volume of Essays. i8mo, $1.25. Contents: Average People; Individuality; Striving; Loy- alty and Liberality; Transitional Woman; Personal Influence; Who’s Who ; Caste in American Society. An amount of good sense, honest thinking, and wide experience which it will do everybody good to heed. — Boston Beacon. Full of thought, rich in suggestion, and abounding in the prac- tical ethics of life. — Bosto7i Advertiser. Earnest in purpose, sparkling in manner, — Christian Register (Boston). Fresh, breezy, and piquant.— The Independent (New York), Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney. Just How: A Key to the Cook-Books. i6mo, 1.00. The object of this book is, to be so clear and simple and explicit, in directions for cooking, that one cannot help doing the right thing, in the right way, at just the right time, and come out right. A person entirely ignorant of cooking could, it seems to us, go into her kitchen with this book in her hand, and be confident of success in all the simple forms of cooking. It is not possible to speak too strongly in praise of the peculiar method and methods of the book. We can only advise every housekeeper, who has an inexperienced but willing and interested cook, to buy the book at once, put it into the kitchen, and await the result. — “ H. H.” in Denver Tribune,c W' • I* t r jt _ > V • V, *■ •■/>• &.'4'.:-!*a.v>