226 ATLAS OF PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. Fig. 17.—Gouty Fingers; Polyarthritis Urica of the Finger-Joints. In this case the finger-joints—with the exception of those of the two thumbs— are very much enlarged, and this is especially true of the middle joints. The skin covering these enlarged joints is white and appreciably thinned, so that it is possible to distinguish through it the yellowish-white masses of uric acid. There are several old cicatrices, representing the remains of former openings through which a portion of the accumulated uric acid had escaped. Deposits are also present in the sheaths of the tendons in the metacarpal part of the hand. Still larger swellings of the joints, of the same character as those ob- served in the fingers, are present upon the lower extremities, and particu- larly at the ball of the right foot. Here there is a very large swelling, with several openings, through which, during the past nine months, whit- ish-colored masses of varying consistence have been discharged. At first, solid concretions, varying in size from that of a bean to that of a hazelnut, and weighing in the aggregate about sixty grams, were cast out; but afterward the discharge which escaped from these fistulous Openings was of a pap-like consistence and greasy in character. When allowed to dry it became converted into a mass of substance like mortar. The skin of the entire foot is swollen, of a livid color, and traversed by cord-like veins. Alterations of a similar character (without any fistulous open- ings) are visible on both knees and at the shoulder-joints; and, besides, there are gouty deposits in both auricles. The patient, a man forty-nine years old, says that he had had the disease for a period of thirteen years; and that, in his capacity of steward of a ship, he had been for many years exposed to all sorts of weather and to hardships of different kinds. Two of the patient’s brothers, it appears, are also sufferers from gout (collateral hereditary taint). The patient admits that he is a moderate user of the stronger alcoholic drinks (rum, cognac, punch, and the differ- ent liqueurs). (Further details in regard to this case will be found in the dissertation of H. Keiper, entitled: “Zur Kenntniss der Gicht,” Munich, 1889.)