THE BONES AND JOINTS. 209 where the tooth had been extracted, a tumor about the size of an English walnut. It felt hard, and was at first painless in character, but later it became somewhat sensitive. Then, soon afterward, the whole cheek became swollen; and in the midst of this hardened area of the cheek there developed, at a later period, several tough and prominent tumors, which gradually assumed a somewhat softer consistence; no thickening of the jaw bone itself. Under suitable surgical treatment (incision; thor- ough scraping of the wound; opening up and scraping of the fistulous tracks) a cure was effected. The patient was a stable boy, eighteen years old. (Compare A. Illich: “Beitrag zur Klinik der Aktinomykose.” Wien, 1892. Case V., on page 7.) formed, and these in time break, either into the cav- ity of the mouth or outwardly through the swollen and hard tissues of the cheek. In the latter case, fistulse are formed, which open on the face or on the neck, or—where the upper jaw is diseased—beneath the margin of the orbital cavity. In addition to the inflammatory swelling of the soft parts there may be, as a result of proliferative processes in the periosteum (toxic ossifying periostitis), a certain amount of thick- ening and expansion of the bone. At first, small se- questra may be cast off, and the discolored necrotic bone may be exposed to view; then the alveolar proc- ess, having completely died, projects into the cavity of the mouth; and so, in the course of a few months, the entire lower jaw may be completely destroyed by necrosis. The new tissues thrown out by the perios- teum lie like pumice stone upon the old bone, and in course of time they also, in their turn, may be de- stroyed by necrosis. After the necrotic portions of bone have been cast out, or have been removed by surgical interference, the defect may in great measure be filled in by a new formation of bone on the part of the periosteum, or by the growth of granulation tis- sue. When the suppuration ceases, the fistulous channels heal and become closed. Markedly re-