portion of the frontal bone are deficient, thus affording an open- ing into the cranial cavity fully as large as a fifty-cent piece. At the post-mortem examination no metastatic foci could be discovered in any part of the body, and both the submaxillary and the cervical lymph glands were found—both macroscopi- cally and microscopically—to be normal. Specimens taken from both the base and the margins of the ulcer were submitted to a microscopic examination, and its carcinomatous character was thus established beyond all doubt. (The characteristic epithelial plugs and cylinders were found in these specimens.) (A more detailed description of this case will be found in the dissertation of Fritz Zorn, entitled : “ Seltene Falle von Gesichts- krebs mit ungewohnlich langer Dauer, ” Munich, 1891.) Explanation of Plate 50. Subcoracoid Dislocation of the Humerus, of Long Standing; Formation of a New Socket on the Scapula and Wearing away of the Head of the Humerus. (After Helferich.) Fig. a shows both bones—as seen from in front—in their posi- tion of dislocation. The head of the humerus covers the region of the glenoid fossa and rests upon the anterior surface of the neck of the scapula, beneath the coracoid process. The free an- terior surface of the head of the humerus, with its covering of cartilage tissue, is visible, and so also is the border of the newly formed mass of bone, on the neck of the scapula, which sur- rounds the new joint socket. The humerus occupies a position of slight abduction. The mobility of this abnormal arrange- ment of the joint is extremely limited. In Fig. b the two bones are represented in such a manner that the scapula is seen from in front, just as it is in Fig. a ; w'hile the humerus, having been rotated through an arc of 180°, pre- sents its posterior surface—that which normally faces the scapula —toward the eye of the observer. In this view the glenoid fossa is seen (on the scapula) from one side, and therefore a good deal foreshortened. Its anterior border is also seen to be considerably worn away ; and immediately next to it, toward the median line, comes the new joint socket, surrounded by its irregularly out- lined wall of bone. On the humerus may be seen an excavation which owes its origin to the wearing away of the bone caused by pressure upon the margin of the glenoid fossa; and in the local- ity which corresponds to the anatomical neck a few masses of newly formed bone tissue, like those which are characteristic of arthritis deformans, are visible.