Explanation of Plate 1. Contracted Kidney Associated with a Condition of Chronic Congestion. Cyanotic Indura- tion, with Secondary, Unequally Distributed, Granular Atrophy. The kidney, which originally was somewhat enlarged, is now (as here pictured) reduced in size, as a result of secondary con- traction, to about the normal proportions. (Weight of both kidneys = 300 gm.) The fibrous capsule was removed with comparative ease. The surface underneath it was found to he somewhat uneven, partly on account of the presence of (depres- sions of varying depths (the effect of retraction of the tissues), and partly on account of small-sized granulations. Consistence of the organ greatly increased. Color of a dark livid hue. When cut open the kidney presented, upon the surface of the section, the following appearance : Cortex somewhat diminished in breadth, of a cyanotic hue, and separated from the region of the pyramids—which is even more deeply cyanotic—by a sharp boundary line. Abundant development of fat at the hilus. From the history of the case it appeared that the patient, a sculptor, sixty-two years of age, had been under surgical treat- ment for a small ulcer upon his foot. Up to three days before hisdeatk-he had been going about, apparently in good health. Then he was suddenly taken ill with difficulty in breathing and a sensation of pressure in the region of the stomach. On physi- cal examination it was found that the heart was enlarged, the valvular sounds were clear but feeble, and the pulse was irreg- ular, small, and easily compressible. The urine was scanty and contained only a little albumin. There was no dropsy nor any fever. There was no appetite. His face was very pale and his finger nails were cyanotic. Death fol lowed speedily, under manifestations of heart weakness. The apparent cause of death was found to be idiopathic hyper- trophy and dilatation of the heart, of alcoholic origin. The organ weighed 470 gm. The other pathological conditions found were the following : Congestive enlargement of the spleen ; nut- meg liver; chronic congestive catarrh of the stomach ; gall stones ; at the apices of the lungs, on both sides, evidence of for- mer tuberculous-disease. (No. 3, 1895.)