Explanation of Plate 39. Callus Formation in Bone Fractures. (After Helferich.) Complicated Fracture of the Thigh. Fig. a.—The fractured ends of the bone, in consequence of a septic inflammation of the wound, became necrosed through- out their entire thickness. After the lapse of months, the sequestra formed in this manner separated from the living bone. Finally, amputation was resorted to, inasmuch as there seemed to be no prospect that a consolidation of the parts would take place. In Fig. a (the lower one of the three) the upper part of the lower fragment of the broken bone is shown in its entire thickness, with the sequestrum in place. The latter presents the appearance of a macerated portion of bone, whose upper extrem- ity shows the irregular edges of the line of fracture. The lower part of the sequestrum is surrounded by newly produced bone substance, which is characterized by osteophytic deposits, spe- cially numerous near the sequestrum, and presenting some resemblance to dripstones. The uppermost of the three figures represents a section of the upper fragment of the broken bone. The external deposits of bone, the beginning of the process of absorption in the compact substance, and the obliteration of the medullary cavity by the development of spongy bone substance, all these things are well shown in the drawing. The middle picture represents the sequestrum belonging to the upper frag- ment of bone. Below may be seen the irregular edge correspond- ing to the line of fracture, while above there are tooth-like pro- jections—the product of the inflammation which progressed slowly during the separation of the sequestrum from the living bone. Healed Fracture of the Humerus (section). Fig. b.—Slight axial dislocation. At the point of fracture one can see how the compact ends of the fragments are united to- gether by a scanty mass of callus, which also appears to be com- posed of a certain amount of compact substance. The medullary cavity is open, and it is only at the spot where the fracture oc- curred that a certain amount of narrowing, due to the presence of a few lamellae of spongy bone, can be seen. Fracture of the Tibia ivhich has Healed at an Angle (section). Fig. c.—The fragments are very much displaced and they have become united by their sides. The old compact cortical portion has assumed a more spongy character. The two portions of the medullary cavity are separated from each other by the cor- tical portions of the two fragments and by the bone substance which has been deposited in large quantity between them.