THE BONES AND JOINTS. 211 tracted cicatrices and deformities of different kinds remain as permanent results. Phosphorus necrosis is not a local affection, but rather a general disease of the osseous system. It develops, as a secondary process, in bones which have already previously been somewhat altered by the toxic influence of the phos- phorus. The disease attacks not only the jaws, but also the bones of the extremities, which then become thickened (hyperostosis) and abnormally brittle. (It Fig. 10.—Multiple Caries and the Development of Osteophytes in the Thoracic Portion of the Spinal Column and in the Ribs, in a Case of Actinomycosis. (After Ponfick.) At the post-mortem examination there was found a retromediastinal abscess cavity, which extended from the second to the eleventh thoracic vertebra. The anterior surface of the bodies of the vertebra was bare at many spots, and revealed to view a great variety of granular and dentated elevations aDd outgrowths. Be- tween these there were areas whose uneven surface was covered with a thin stratum of brownish granulations. The intervertebral discs were found to be superficially eroded, and already in a state of beginning dis- integration. In the intercostal spaces it was found that the pus had penetrated far in among the bands of muscular tissue. In this patient—a man, forty-five years of age—the disease had begun as an inflammation of the costal pleura, on the left side; but, as time went on, he did not seem to recover from the effects of this inflammation. Six months before his death he complained of quite sharp pains and other uncomfortable sensations in the region of his back and loins; and soon afterward abscesses formed at different points. Some of these broke directly through the skin of the back, while others burrowed extensively underneath it. There were at this time marked symptoms of a slowly in- creasing thickening of the pleura, low down on the left side. Terminal exudation into the pleural cavity of the right side, with beginning pericar- ditis. As stated above, a prevertebral phlegmon was found, at the au- topsy, in the posterior portion of the mediastinum. There was also a parapleuritic cavity which extended, on both the right and the left sides, from the seventh to the ninth intercostal space, and which communicated with the outside world through a large number of old fistulous channels in the substance of the longissimus dorsi muscle and also in that of the muscles belonging to the shoulder blades. These fistulous channels also ran in various directions through the subcutaneous connective tissue of the entire back. Evidences of a recent fibrino-purulent pericarditis were also found. (Compare E. Ponflck: “Die Aktinomykose des Menschen.” Berlin, 1882. Case I., on page 7.)