Explanation of Plate 37. Spinal-Cord Lesions Due to Traumatism (a) and to Poliomyelitis Chronica (6). (a) Compression Myelitis in the upper Cervical Portion of the Spinal Cord, in a Case of Spontaneous Frac- ture of the Odontoid Process of the Axis, or Second Cervical Vertebra. At a distance of 3.5 cm. from the pons the upper part of the cervical portion of the cord presented a distinct narrowing, and, immediately after these parts had been exposed to view, this narrowed condition stood out still more conspicuously. The substance of the spinal cord, at the point of contraction, was found to he in a softer condition than were the neighboring healthy parts. At this place also the vertebral canal was markedly narrowed, and the spinal dura mater bulged out in a backward direction and seemed to fluctuate. This gave the im- pression, in the earlier part of the post-mortem examination, that the narrowing of the canal was due to the presence of a semisolid extradural tumor (sarcoma) ; but, upon further exam- ination, it was ascertained that a spontaneous fracture had taken place in the odontoid process of the carious second cervical ver- tebra. The patient, a boy sixteen years of age, was affected, during his lifetime, with paralysis of all the extremities, and the diag- nosis which had been made was that of a cervical spondylitis. Among the pathological alterations found elsewhere in the body were the following: Broncho-pneumonia of both lower lobes, and of the right middle and upper lobes ; subacute verrucose en- docarditis of the mitral valve; general emaciation (weight of body = 84 kgm.) and anajmia. (No. 168, 1895.) A more detailed description of this case will be found in the dissertation of Martin Lubinski, entitled: “ Kasuistischer Beitrag zur Lehre von der Kompressionsmyelitis, ” Munich, 1895. (b) Multiple Capillary Apoplexies in the Posterior Columns of the Spinal Cord in Poliomyelitis Chronica. Upon the transverse section of the spinal cord there can be seen quite a large number of punctiform fresh hemorrhagic foci (capil- lary apoplexies), which do not disappear when the edge of the knife is drawn lightly over them. Similar multiple capillary apoplexies were found in the parenchyma of the cerebrum. As the cause of death of this patient—a young woman, nine- teen years old—there was found an acute, generalized, miliary tuberculosis of the lungs, liver, kidneys, and peritoneum; the disease having probably originated in an ulcerating primary tuberculosis of the intestines and a cheesy tuberculosis of the mesenteric glands.