Explanation of Plate 49. Carcinoma of the Skin of the Face, with In- volvement of the Underlying Bony Struc- tures. (Duration, about twenty-one years.) The patient was a man, sixty-four years of age. When he was twenty-six years old a wart, a little larger than the head of a pin, appeared upon the lower border of the right lower eyelid. Most of the time this small wart was in an inflamed condition, and the skin, for a short distance around it, was somewhat red- dened. A little moist secretion came from the growth. By the time he reached his forty-third year the ulcer, which had been a good deal irritated by the frequent removal of the crusts which formed upon it, had already increased greatly in size, both superficially and in depth. It had advanced in the direction of the mouth. By the end of another year it had so increased in all its dimensions that it could hold the last joint of a man’s finger. While at first the disease had advanced very slowly, it began at this period to take on a more rapid rate of growth, so that at the end of the next succeeding ten years the ulcer had attained greatly increased dimensions. Seven years before his death the loss of one eye took place ; then, later, pieces of necrosed bone escaped from the wound; and finally, toward the end of his life, the brain itself, robbed of its protecting dura, projected as a pulsat- ing tumor from the bottom of the ulcerated cavity. During the last two years of life frequent and copious hemorrhages from the ulcer took place. The cancerous ulcer (Plate 49, Fig. a) involves the entire right side of the face, and extends upward, upon the right half of the forehead, in the form of a diverticulum as large as a silver dollar, to and a little beyond the margin of the hairy scalp. At some spots it has laid bare the surface of the bone. With the excep- tion of its tip end the entire nose is destroyed. That part of the face which is eaten away is about as large as a man’s fist. This excavation is limited, on the outer side, by the ascending ramus of the lower jaw ; below, by the hard palate; toward the left side, by the septum narium; and above, by the frontal bone. At its fundus the excavation extends as far as to the pterygo- maxillary fossa. The walls of the cavity are covered with masses of cancerous and necrotic tissues. Upon the macerated skull (Plate 49, Fig. b) it can be seen that the entire superior maxilla of the right side, with the exception of the hard palate, has been destroyed ; and, further, that the ascending portion of the palate bone, the turbinated bones, the laorymal bone, the ethmoid bone, and both nasal bones have met with the same fate. The left [right?] orbital cavity is entirely destroyed, and toward the median line the roof of this cavity and the adjoining nasal