THE BONES AND JOINTS. 217 bone structures, sarcoma is the commonest. Fibro- mata, osteomata, and chondromata occur more rarely. The primary bone sarcomata develop either from the medullary substance or from the periosteum. 1. Cen- tral or myelogenous sarcomata (Plate 48). In this cate- gory belong the giant-cell sarcomata—tumors which are fairly benign, light brown in color, and generally sur- rounded by a shell of bone; and also the soft and mar- row-like round-cell and spindle-cell sarcomata, which Fig. 14.—Multiple Enehondromata of the Shoulder Blade and Humerus. (Two-fifths natural size.) (Case of Steudel.*) In this case (a man, forty- five years of age) a number of enehondromata developed in the shoulder blade and in the epiphyses of the humerus. As a result of the presence of so many outgrowths of different sizes, the scapula was a good deal deformed. The humerus was considerably shortened, and both epiphyses were thickened and knobbed, whereas the diaphysis, throughout a length of eight centimetres, was of normal thickness and presented a smooth surface. The individual tumors were of a soft and elastic consistence and presented a knobbed and uneven surface. Cartilaginous tumors of a similar character were found, in another case (a man, twenty years of age), upon both thighs and legs; and upon the fingers and toes, particularly of the right side, these growths were very numerous—so much so, in fact, that it was found necessary to amputate the right forearm. In addition to those already enumerated there were many tumors on the skull, on several of the ribs, on the spinal column, and on the pelvis. The only parts of the body which were entirely free from these growths were the upper arm and forearm of the left side. A microscopic examination showed that these tumors were composed of cartilage of a purely hyaline character. The first evidences of these tumors were discovered when the boy was between six and seven years of age. By the time he had reached his twentieth year their development upon the extremities had ceased. Numerous other anomalies were ob- served on the bony structures of the body, some of which had increased very greatly in size. Thus, for example, there were curvatures of the extremities and of the thorax; shortening of the affected bones; and nu- merous fractures, which had resulted from trivial mechanical injuries, and which were due to the abnormal softness of the entire skeleton. Finally, in addition to these pathological alterations, multiple cavernous angio- mata, growing out from the walls of the veins, were found in various parts of the body. * E. Steudel: “Multiplo Enchondrome der Knochen”; in Bruns' “Beitriige zur klinlschen Chirurgie,” Bd. viii., 1871.