Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 https://archive.org/cletails/b20390981TEXT-BOOK OF ANATOMY. GERPJSH.HENKY KIMl'TON'S STANDARD MEDICAL WORKS For Specialists, General Practitioners, and Students. PRACTICAL DIAGNOSIS.-The Use of Symplonis in the Diagnosis of Disease. By IlnHAltT Ajiiihy Hare, M.U , Profe-(.sor of Tlieiapeutics and Materia Medica in the Jefferson Medical College of Pliiladelpliia, etc. New (4th; edition. 623 pages, with aO.') engravings, and 14 full- page coloured plates. Cloth, 21s , net. Just ready. " We can thoronghly recommend thi.s book to practitioner.'^ and students."—Lanajt. A TEXT-BOOK OF PRACTICAL THERAPEUTICS; with Especial Reference to the Applications of Remedial Measures to Disease and their Employment upon a Rational Basis. By HOBAHT AmuUY Uakh, M.U., Professor of Therapeutics and Materia Medica in the Jefferson Medical College of Philadelphia. With special chapters by Drs. G. E. UK SCHWEINIT/., EDWARD MARTIN, and Barton Hirst. New (7th) edition. In one octavo volume of 775 pages. Cloth, 21s., net. (Revised in accordance with the new edition (1898) British Pharmacopcea.) " We may repeat the words of our last notice. We can thoroughly recommend this book to practitioners and students."—Lfoicif. A MANUAL OF CLINICAL DIAGNOSIS BY MICROSCOPICAL AND CHEMICAL METHODS. For Student.?, Hospital Physicians, and Practit'oners. By CHARLKS R. Simon, M D., I.ate A.sMstant Resident Physician, Johns Uopkins Hospital, Baltimore. New (2nd) edition. In one very handsome octavo volume of 5(i5 pages, with 133 engravings and 14 full page coloured plates. Cloth, llis., net. " One of tile best and most compendious manuals for the clinical lal>oratory that has yet appeared.*'—Lancft. TILLMANNS' SURGERY-3 Vols. A Text-Book of General Surgery. By Dr. Hkkmann Tillmanns, Professor in the Uuiversity of Leipzig. Edited by Lewis A. Stimson, M.D., Professor uf Surgery in the New York University, Octavo, cloth, £.1 Is., net, per vol. Vol. I.—The Principles of Surgery and Surgical Pathology. General Rules governing Operations and the Application of Dressings. Translated from the Third German Edition by John Rogers*, M.D,, and Benjamin T. Tilton, M.D. With 447 Illustrations. Vol. II.—Regional Surgery. Translated from the Fourth German Edition by Benjamin T. Tilton, M.D., New York. With 417 Illustrations. Vol. III.—Regional Surgery. With 517 Illustration.s. Complete work now ready, price £3 lis., net. *'One of the best works on modern surgery available in the English language."—Proctiitoiler, ** J'here is no English text book on the subject which can in any way be compared with it. . . . Indeed, there has been nothing issued at all comparable to this work.''—Ssottish Medical and Siirgical Journal. MANUAL OF THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN. By John Madison Taylor. A.M., M.I)., Professor of Diseases ..f ('liildi en, l'liibul. l]ilii,i I'olyiiinic, etc. ; and WILLIAM H. WELLS, M.D., Adjunct Professor of (il)stetrics and liifeasts nf liilanci in the Philadelphia Polyclinic, etc., etc. Complete in one illustrated volume of 743 pages, gilt top, price 16s,, ud. "One of the best books for the use of the student and the practitioner."—Lancet. A MANUAL OF MODERN SURGERY, GENERAL AND OPERATIVE. By John i'HALMKRS Da Costa, M.D., Demonstrator of Surgery, Jefferson .Medical College, Philadelphia; Chief Assistant Suigeon, Jefferson Medical College Hospital; Surgical Registrar, Philadelphia Hospital, etc. 2nd edition, revised and enlarged with 386 illustrations, nearly 1,000 pages. Royal octavo, cloth, price 21s., net. "We regard Dr. Da Costa's Manual as the most concise, reliable, and up-to-date of the many works on surgery.''—Glasgoiv Medical Journo-t. OPERATIVE GYNECOLOGY. By Howakd A. Kelly, A.B., M.D., Fellow of the American Gynecological Society ; Professor of Gynecology and Obstetrics in the Johns Hopkins University, and Gynecologist and Obstetrician to the Joiins {fopkins Hospital, Baltimore, etc. In two royal octavo volumes, with 24 plates and 590 illustrations. Handsomely bound in half-morocco, gilt tops. Vol. I., 680 pages ; Vol. II., 57.3 pages. Price £3 3s., net. ''I'he volumes are of the highest merit, will long remain the standard work upon the subject of which they treat, and should be in the hands of all gynecologists and surgeons performing pelvic operations."—Lancet. A TREATISE ON THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF GYNECOLOGY. EorSiudents and I'ractitioners. By E. €, Dl'ULKY, M,D., Professor of Gynecology in the Cliicago Medical College. In one very hand,some octavo volume of 652 pages with 42^ engravings, of which 47 are coloured, and two full-page plates in colours and monochrome. Cloth, 21s., net. "The illustrations are all remarkably good, and reflect great credit on the jiublifhers.Ji?'((i^/fc Medical Journal. London : HENRY KIMPTON, 82, High Holhokn, W.C.A TEXT-BOOK OF AMATOMY. EDITED BY FREDERIC HENRY GERRISH, M.D., Professor of Anatomy in thf. Medical School of Maine, Bowdoin College. ILLUSTRATED WITH 950 ENGRAVINGS IN BLACK AND COLORS. LONDON: HENRY KIMPTON, 82, High Holborn, W.C. 1899.All riyltts reserved. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY / Coll. welMOmec Call No. /PREFACE. In their work as teachers of anatomy the authors of this vohime have long- felt the need of a text-book, which, while presenting the essential facts of human structure, judiciously avoids the unimportant and exceptional. They believe that the students in medical schools should neither be encouraged to depend upon pocket manuals nor be compelled to resort to encyclopcedias. Between the extremes of flavorless condensation and universal inclusiveness is a middle ground whereon should be marshalled in systematic array those portions of anatomical knowledge which, with our present information, are seen to be necessary pre- liminaries to the intelligent study of physiology, surgery, and internal medicine ; and from this field should be excluded the much greater collection of facts, which, however important to a work which designs to be exhaustive, have no known practical bearing, or only such possible application as will make them available for a useful purpose once or twice in a generation. The authors have endeavored to make a text-book Avliich, as far as possible, shall stand in the place of a living teacher to the student—selecting from the vast accumulation of material those portions which are likely to be of actual service to the pupil in his subsequent study and to tlie practitioner in his clinical work, emphasizing the most important, striving to clarify obscurities, giving the greatest amount of help in the parts which are most difficult to learn, and illus- trating everything by all available methods. They may have slighted facts which others would have introduced ; they certainly, as a matter of policy, have admit- ted many things which, in their judgment, are not essential to the student, except for the aid thev afford him in meeting certain conventional demands, especially on the part of examiners, who may not have emancipated themselves from the tram- mels of tradition. The material facts have been gathered from the rich stores of information, which are recognized as the common property of science. No attempt is made to give credit to the discovei'ers, to whose efforts the })resent advanced state of anatomy is due ; and this omission is justified by two reasons: first, the impossibility of determining the original source in a majority of cases, and, second, the undesirability of loading a primary text-book with historical data which are not helpful in practical work. The various topics have been arranged on familiar lines, the ordinary divisions of systematic anatomy having been followed in the main ; but each author has set forth his subjects according to the metliods which his experience has shown him to be profitable, and some of these will be seen to be different from (and, it is hoped, better than) those in ordinary vogue. Greater relative stress has been laid upon visceral structure, without neglect of the other branches; surface anatomy has received attention more in proportion to its usefulness than is usual;PRE FA GE. 6 and the pictorial and diagrammatic illustrations (thanks to the remarkable liber- ality of the pnblishers) are phenomenally abundant and of striking artistic excel- lence. The method of direct labelling of the pictures, which has been proved to be so helpful to the student, has been applied M'herever practicable. It is thought that the 2>hin of giving tlie directions for dissection in a sepa- rate chapter will be appreciated as a marked convenience to the student in the laboratory. The nomenclature emjjloyed is that in general use among English-s])eaking anatomists. A few words, sanctioned by the approval of the Association of American Anatomists, or the Anatomische Gesellschaft, or both, have been used in preference to the customary, though less desii-able, terms ; but, in every such case, the synonym is given, so that no confusion can arise. When a term, which has not been employed previous]}' in the text, is intro- duced, its etymologic meaning is given parenthetically, unless its signification is manifest without such assistance. By this means a new and helpful aspect of the topic is often presented to the mind. The articles on the bones, the joints, and the veins have been written Ijy Dr. Woolsey, those on the peripheral nervous system, the eye, the nose, and the skin by Dr. Keiller, that on embryology by Dr. McMurrich, that on the arteries by Dr. Bevan, that on the reproductive organs by Dr. Stewart, and the remainder by Dr. Gerrish. Portland, Maine, 21 March, 1899.7 PUBLISHERS' NOTE. Perhaps the obvious niagnitucle of such an undertaking as the pi'esent may be connected with the fact, often observed, that ahhough America has enriched medical literature with systematic treatises on all other branches, its anatomical instruction has been derived from foreign works. The creation of another volume would, however, be justified neither by this fact alone, nor by the growing and natural wish of American readers for works by home authors. The very multi- plicity of bof)ks on Anatomy proves that the science is advancing in discoveries of fact, relationship, and methods of presentation, and moreover that no volume fully satisfies all requirements. No effort has been spared by those responsible for this work to render it one in which Americans might take a justifiable pride, and which the fraternity of medicine abroad might equally welcome as a conti'ibution to the advancement of a vital science. Text, illustration, and typography represent the best endeavors in their respective kinds. For many of the engravings individual acknowledg- ment has been made to Testut's admirable Traite de VAnatomie, published by M. Doin, of Paris, a work deserving wide recognition by English-speaking students. The series of illustrations in the present work is original to an unusual degree, and far more extensive than hitherto attempted. Colors have been abundantly employed, and particular care has been bestowed in engraving the labels of parts directly upon them wherever possible, whereby the student gains at a glance a knowledge of their names, position, and relations.LIST OF AUTHORS. ARTHUE DEAN BEVAX, M. D., Professor of-Anatomy in Rush Medical College in affiliation with the University of Chicago ; Surgeon to the Presbyterian and St. Luke's Hospitals, Chicago, etc. FREDERIC HENRY GEREISH, A. M., M. D., Professor of Anatomy in the Medical School of Maine, Bowdoin College ; Consulting Sur- geon to the Maine General Hospital, Portland ; Fellow of the American Surgical Association ; sometime President of the American Academy of Medicine, etc. WILLIAM KEILLER, F. R. C. S. (Edis.), Professor of Anatomy in the Medical Department of the University of Texas, Galv.eston : sometime Lecturer on Anatomy in the Edinburgh Medical School, etc. JAMES PLAYFAIR McMURRICH, A. M , Ph. D., Professor of Anatomy in the L'niver.sity of Michigan, Ann Arbor ; sometime Professor of Biology in the University of Cincinnati and Associate Professor of Animal Morphology in Clark L^niversity, etc. GEORGE DAVID STEWART, M. D., Professor of Anatomy in the Laiiversity and Bellevue Hospital Medical College, New York City ; Visiting Surgeon to Bellevue Hospital, etc. GEORGE WOOLSEY, A. B., M. D., Professor of Anatomy and Clinical Surgery in the Cornell University Medical College, New York City; Visiting Surgeon to Bellevue Hospital, etc.9 CONTENTS. INTRODUCTORY. By F. H. Gerrish. Definition 17 Names and Delimitations of Surface Parts 21 The Systems of Organs and tlieir Functions . 29 Organs removing Waste Matters ... 30 The Vascular System 30 Organs Supplying Nourishment .... 31 Organs of Internal Secretion 32 Organs of Motion 32 Framework Organs 32 Organs of Rehition 82 Organs of Reproduction 33 The Order of Topics 33 Methods of Study 33 ELEMENTARY TISSUES. By F. H. Cells. [ Cell-reproduction 39! Classes of Tissues. j The Epithelial Tissues 41 j The Sustentacular Tissues 4.5 White Fibrous Tissue 46 Yellow Fibrous Tissue 47 Areolar Tissue 47 Adipose Tissue 49 Gelatinous Tissue 50 Adenoid Reticular Tissue 50 Neuroglia 50 Cartilaginous Tissues . 51 Osseous Tissue 52 Dentinal Tissue 56 The Liquid Tissues 57 The Lymph 57 The Biood 57 The Muscular Tissues 58 I Plain Muscular Tissue 58 i Gereish. Cross-striped Muscular Tissue 59 Cardiac Muscular Tissue 61 The Nervous Tissues 62 Membranes 64 Serous Membranes 66 Serous Membranes Proper 68 The Lining Membrane of the Vascular System 68 The Lining Membrane of Certain Cav- ities in Sustentacular Tissues .... 69 The Lining Membrane of the Cavity of the Cerebro-spinal Axis • 69 Synovial jMembranes 69 Articular Synovial Membranes .... 70 Vaginal Synovial Membranes 70 Bursal Synovial Membranes 71 Mucous Membranes 71 Cutaneous Membrane 74 Glands 75 EMBRYOLOGY. By j. p. McMcrrich. Spermatogenesis 77 Oogenesis 78 The Early Stages of Development 79 The Umbilical Cord and the Placenta ... 83 Organs Derived from the Endoderm ... 86 The Teeth and Salivary (Elands .... 86 The Branchial Clefts and the Structures Derived from them 87 The Trachea and Lungs 88 The Intestine and Mesenteries .... 88 The Liver and Pancreas 90 Organs Derived from the Mesoderm .... The Skeleton The Heart and Blood-vessels The Diaphragm .... Tiie Lymphatic Vessels, the Spleen, and the Suprarenal Capsules The ^Muscular System The Excretory and Reproductive Organs Organs Derived from tlie Ectoderm ....CONTENTS. 10 THE BONES. By G. Woolsey. PAGE 113 155 115 'J'lie Fibula .... 157 The Tarsal Bones .... 158 116 Tlie Astrai;alus 158 117 Tlie C'alcaiR'Uiii ... 159 119 120 .... 160 122 .... 160 123 The Internal Cuneiform .... 160 124 The ^Middle Cuneiform , .... 161 The External Cuneiform .... 161 .... 161 126 .... 162 127 The Foot as a Whole .... 163 129 Homologies of the Bones of the Two 130 .... 164 General Considerations The Spine The Cervical Group The Thoracic Group , The Lumbar Group The Sacral Vertebra ..... The Coccyx . ,. The Spine as a Whole ..... Ossification of the Vertebra; The Thorax. The Sternum The Ribs The Costal C^artilages The Thorax as a Whole .... The Bones of the Uppee Limb. The Clavicle 131 The Scapula 133 Tlie Humerus 135 The lUna 137 The Kadius 139 The Carpal Bones 140 The Scaphoid 141 The Semilunar 141 The Cuneiform 141 The PLsiform 143 The Trapezium 143 The Trapezoid 143 The Os Magnum 143 The LTneiform 143 The Metacarpal Bones 144 The Phalanges 144 The Bones of the Lovi'eii Limb. The Hip-bone 146 The Ilium 146 The Ischium 148 The ()s Pubis 149 The Pelvis 150 The Femur 151 The Patella 154 The Skull. The Bones of the Cranium. The Occipital Bone 165 The Parietal Bone 168 The Frontal Bone 169 The Temporal Bone 171 The Sphenoid Bone 176 The Ethmoid Bone 179 The Bones of the Face. The ^Maxilla, or Superior Maxillary Bone . 181 The Palate-bone 183 The Vomer 184 The Inferior Turbinate Bone 185 Tlie Nasal Bone 185 The Lachrvmal Bone 186 The Malar' Bone 186 The Mandible, or Inferior Maxillary Bone . 187 The IIvoid Bone 189 The Skull as a Whole 190 The Sutures 190 The Exterior of the Skull 190 The Interior of the Cranium 196 General Morjihology of the Skull ... 199 Various Forms of the Skull 200 THE ARTICULATIONS. By G. Woolsey. fieneral Considei'ations 203 Kinds of Joints 204 Kinds of Mo%'ement 205 The Articulations of the Trunk and Head . 205 The Articulations of the Vertebral Col- umn 205 The Articulations and Ligaments be- tween the Atlas, Axis, and Occipital Bone 208 The Articulations of the Thorax . . . 211 The Temporo-mandibular Articulation . 214 The Articuladdiis <if the I'jiper Extremity . 216 The StenKi-clavifular Articulation . . 216 The Seapulo-clavicular Articulation . . 217 The Shoulder-joint 218 The Elbow-joint 221 The Eadio-ulnar Articulations and Liga- ments . . 223 The Wrist-joint or Radio-carpal Articu- lations .' 224 The Carpal Articulations 225 The Carpo-metacarpal and Intermeta- carpal Articulations 226 Metacarpo phalangeal and Interphalan- geal Articulations 227 The Artictdations of the Pelvis 227 The Articulations of the Pelvis with the Last Lumbar Vertebra 227 The Sacro-coccygeal and Intercoccygeal Articulations' "... 228 The Sacro-iliae .Joint 228 The Svmphvsis Pubis 22911 CONTENTS. PAGE The Articulations of the Lower Limb . . • 230 The Hip joint ... 230 The Knee-joint 283 The Tibio-'lihiilar Union 237 The Ankle-joint 239 1 PAGE The Tarsal Joints 240 TheTarso-metatarsal and Intermetatarsal Articulations 243 Metatarso-piialangeal and Interphalan- geal Articulations 244 THE MUSCLES. By F. H. Gerrish. General Considerations 245 The Nomenclature of Muscles 248 The Muscles of the Upper Limb. Movements of the Upper Limb 251 Muscles Moving tiie Shoulder 253 Muscles Moving the Arm 258 Muscles Moving the Whole Forearm . . 263 Muscles Moving the Outer Part of tlie Fore- arm 266 Muscles Moving the Whole Hand 269 Muscles Moving the Fingers 272 Muscles Moving the Thumb 280 The Muscles of the Lower Limb. Muscles Moving the Thigh 289 Muscles Moving tiie Leg 301 Muscles Moving the Whole Foot 308 Muscles Moving the Digits of the Foot . . 316 The Muscles of the Trunk. The Mu.scles of the Back 325 Muscles in tlie Third Layer of the Back 325 Muscles in the Fourth Layer of the Back 327 Muscles in the Fifth Group of the Back 329 The Muscles of the Abdomen 331 The Muscles of the Thorax 334 The Muscles of the Neck. Muscles of the Front and Side of the Neck . 337 The Muscles of the Head. Superficial Muscles of the Head 342 Muscles of Ma.stication 342 Muscles of Expression 343 THE FASCIiE. By F. H. Gerrish. The Superficial Fascia 349 The Deep Fasci.e. The Fascia? of the Head 350 The Temporal Fascia 350 The Masseteric Fascia 350 The Buccinator Fascia 350 Tiie Cervical Fascia 351 The Outer Cervical Fascia 351 The Middle Cervical 1-^ascia 352 The Inner ( 'ervical Fascia 352 The Thoracic Fascia 353 The Pectoral Fascia 353 The Clavi-coraco-axillary Fascia . • . 354 Tlie Intercostal Fasciie 354 The FasciiB of the Shoulder 354 The Subscapular Fascia 355 The Supraspinous Fascia 355 The Infraspinous Fascia 355 The Deltoid Fascia 355 The Fascia of the Arm 355 The Fascia of the Forearm The Posterior Annular Ligament . . . The Fascia? of the Hand The Anterior Annular Ligament . . The Palmar Fascia The Dorsal Fascia of the Hand .... Fascial Sheaths of Tendons in the Hand The Fasciie of the Back The Vertebral Fascia The Lumbar Fascia The Fasciae of the Abdominal Cavity . . . The Transversalis Fascia Tiie Iliac Fascia The Pelvic Fascia The <)bturator Fascia The Recto-vesical Fascia The Fasciic of tlie Perineum The Fascia? of tiie Hip and Thigh The Fascise of the Leg The Fasciae of the Foot 355 356 356 356 356 357 357 358 358 358 359 359 360 360 360 361 301 362 3(;2 364 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. THE HEART. By F. l\. Gerrish. Descriptive Anatomy of the Heart .... 365 The Pericardium .... 373 The Physiological Anatomy of the Blood- vessels 374 Tlie Arteries 375 The Capillaries 377 The Veins 37712 THE ARTERIES. By a. D. Bevan. PAGE The Pulmonary Arterial System . . 379 A Syllabus of the Systemic Arterial System 381 The Aorta 383 The Arch of the Aorta 383 The Brachio-cephalie Artery 386 The Left Carotid Artery in tlie Thorax . . 3Stt The Common Carotids in the Xeck .... 3SIt The External Carotid Artery 39"2 The Internal Carotid Artery 401 Tlie Subchjvian Artery 404 The Internal Manimarv Arierv 40".* The Thyroid Axis 410 The Superior Inlercost^il .\rtery 411 The Triangles of the Xeck . 411 pai;f. The Axillary Artery 412 The Axilhiry Space 415 The Brachial Artery 415 The Uln;u- Artery 417 The Radial Artei-y 421 The Descending Aorta 423 The Abdominal Aorta 426 The Common Iliac Arteries 432 The Internal Iliac Artery 433 Tiie External Iliac Artery 438 The Eemoral Artery 439 Tiie Snpertioial Femoral Artery 440 The Posterior Tibial Artery 440 The Anterior Tibial Artery 450 THE VEINS. By G. W00LSEY-. The Pulmonary Veins . . . 454 The Systemic Veins .... 455 The Veins of the Heart 455 The Superior ~\'eua Cava and its Tribu- taries 456 The Brachio-cephalie Veins 457 Veins of the Head and Keck 457 Veins of the Neck 460 The Venous Sinuses of the Cranium . . 463 The ()p]ithalmic Veins 467 The Emissary Veins 467 The Veins of the Brain 467 The Veins of the Upper Extremity .... 468 The Superficial Veins of the Upper Ex- tremity 468 The Deep Veins of the Upper Extremity 470 Tiie Veins of the Thoracic Wall . . ". 470 The Azygos Veins 471 Veins of the Spine 472 The Inferior Vena Cava and its Tributaries . 474 The Common Iliac Veins 476 The External Iliac Veins 477 The Portal Svsteni of Veins 477 The Veins of the Pelvis 479 Veins of the Lower Extremity 481 Superficial Veins of tiie Lower Extremity 4S1 Deep Veins of the Lower Extremity . . 482 THE LYIMPHATIC SYSTEM. By F. H. Gerrish. The Lymph-vessels .... 484 The Nodes of the Head and Neck 489 Tlie Nodes of the Upper Limb 492 Lymph-nodes and other Lymphadenoid \ The Nodes of tiie Lower Limb 493 Structures 487 ^ The Nodes of tlie Tiiorax 495 Lymph-nodes 487 j The Nodes of tlie Abdomen 497 THE CEREBEO-SPINAL AXIS. B\' F. H. Gerrish. General Considerations The Cavity of the Cerebro-spinal Axis . . . Tlie Walls of the Cerebro spinal Axis . . . A Diagrammatic Description of the Brain The Cerebrum The Surtace of the Cerebrum Relation of the Principal Lolies to the Parts of the Lateral Ventricle . . . Situation of the Lobes in the Cranium . The Callosum The Fornix The Anterior Commissure The Septum Lncidum The Caudate Nucleus The Lenticular Nucleus The Claustrum The Amygdaloid Nucleus The Velum Interpositum 499 501 505 506 509 509 517 517 517 520 522 522 524 525 525 526 526 The Region of the Third Ventricle—The Tiialamencephalon ....... 531 The Thalami 532 The Internal Capsule 537 The ^Mesencephalon 538 The Region of the Aqueduct 538 The Epencephalon 540 The Pons 540 Tiie Cerebellum 541 The Oblongata 545 Internal Structure of the Oblongata . . 547 The Lemniscus 550 The Fourtii Ventricle 550 The Spinal Cord 552 The Membranes of the Cerebro-spinal Axis . 557 Tlie jMenibranes of the Brain 558 The Membranes of the Spinal Cord . 561CONTENTS. 13 THE NERVES. By W. Keiller. PAGE The Cekebeo-spinai- Nerves . . 56o Tlie Cranial Nerves 505 The First or < )lfactory Nerve 567 The Second or Optic Nerve 568 The Third or Oculo-motor Nerve . . . 571 The Konrth or Trochlear Nerve . . 574 The Fifth or Trifacial Nerve .... 574 The Sixtli or AVidncent Nerve .... 585 The Seventii or Facial Nerve . . . 585 The Eiftlith or .Viiditory Nerve .... 589 The Ninth or (ilossopharyngeal Nerve . 591 The Tenth, Pneumogastric, or Vagus Nerve 592 The Eleventh or Spinal Accessory Nerve 596 'i'he Twelfth or Hvpoglo.ssal Nerve . . 596 The Spinal Nerves . ' 598 The Anterior Primary Divisions . . - 603 Cervical Nerves 603 Branches given off' Above the Clavicle . 606 Branches given off' Below tlie Clavicle . 607 The Miisculo-cntaneous Nerve .... 608 Tlie Median Nerve 608 The Small Internal Cutaneous Nerve. . 612 The Internal Cutaneous Nerve .... 612 The Ulnar Nerve 612 j The Circumflex Nerve 613 The Musculo-spiral Nerve 614 I PAGE The Tlioracic Nerves 619 The Lumbar Nerves 622 Tiie Lumbar Plexus 622 The Iliohypogastric Nerve 623 Tlie Uio'inguinal Nerve 624 The (ienitdcrural Nerve 624 The External Cutaneous Nerve .... 624 The Anterior Crural Nerve 624 The Obturator Nerve 626 The Accessory Obturator Nerve .... 626 The Sacral and Coccygeal Nerves 627 The Sacral Plexus 628 The Pudic Nerve 631 The Great Sciatic Nerve ■ . 631 The Internal Popliteal Nerve 632 Posterior Tibial Nerve 633 External Popliteal or Peroneal Nerve . 636 Fourth and Fifth Sacral and the Coccy- geal Nerves 638 The Sympathetic Nerves. . . 639 The Sympathetic in the Neck 642 The Thoracic Portion of the Crangliated Cord 644 The Lumbar Portion of the Gangliated Cord 646 The Sacral Portion of the Gangliated Cord . 648 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. THE SKIN . By W. Keiller. 651 Nails and Hairs The Sebaceous Glands The Sweat-Glands . . THE TONCiUE . By F. H. Gerrish. Other Organs of Taste THE NOSE By W. Keiller. The Nasal Cartilages The Nasal Fossse Cavities Opening into the Nasal Fossse THE EAR By F. H. Gerrish. The Internal Elar or Labyrinth The Membranous Labyrinth .... 655 658 659 660 662 663 664 664 666 668 668 668 The Osseous Labyrinth 672 The Middle Ear or Tvmpanum 674 The External Ear . ! 677 THE EYE 680 By W. Keiller. The External or Fibrous Tunic 682 The Sclerotic 682 The (.'ornea 682 The Middle or Vascular Tunic 683 The Choroid 684 Tlie Ciliarv Zone 684 The Iris ." 685 The Inner or Nervous Tunic 686 The Vitreous 689 The Lens 689 The Aqueous 689 The Muscles of the Eyeball 690 The Superficial Appendages of the Eye . 691 The Eyelids 691 Tlie Conjunctiva 693 The Lachrymal Gland 694 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. By F. H. Gerrish General Considerations 695 The Mouth 698 The Lips 699 The Cheeks 699 The Hard Palate 699 The Soft Palate 700 The Teeth 702 Sets of Teeth 703 The Gums 707 The Tongue 707 The Extrinsic Muscles of the Tongue - 70914 CONTENTS. PAGE The Pharynx 710 The Tonsils 711 The Gullet 712 The Abdominal Cavity 713 Regions of the Abdomen 714 The Stomach 715 The Small Intestine . . . 717 The Duodenum 721 The Jejuno-ileum 723 The Labge Intestine. . . . 724 The Cfecum 727 The Appendix 728 Thet:olon 728 The Ascending Colon 729 The Transverse Colon 729 The Descending Colon 729 The Sigmoid Colon 730 The Rectum 732 The Anal Canal 734 Glands Accessory to the Alimentary Tube. The Salivary Glands 734 Physiological Anato The Trachea . . . The Bronchi . . . The Bronchia . . . Minute Anatomy of Gross Anatomy of tl The Kidneys 777 The Excretory Apparatus of the Kidneys . . 784 The Ureters 784 The Bladder 785 PAGE The Parotid Gland 735 The Submaxillary Gland 735 The Sublingual Gland 736 The Pancreas 736 The Liver 738 Physiological Anatomy of the Liver . . 738 A Typical Lobe 738 Arrangement of the \'essels 739 The Fcirm (if the Liver 740 The Surfaces of the Liver 741 Borders of the Liver 744 The Extremities of the Liver . . . .744 Tunics of the Liver 744 Supports of the Liver 745 Vessels of the Liver 745 The Bile-ducts 746 The Gall-bladder . 746 The Peritoneum 748 Mesenteries 748 Omenta 749 Ligaments 750 General View of the Peritoneum 750 Retroperitoneal Fossae 753 765 767 768 769 771 773 The Lrethra 787 Tlie Female Urethra 788 The Male Urethra 789 THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. By F. H. Gerrish. )my 755 757 758 758 the Lungs 759 he Lungs 762 Tlie PleurjB The Larynx The Cartilages of the Larynx . The Ligaments of the Larynx The Muscles of the Larynx . . The Lining- of the Larvnx . . THE URINARY SYSTEM. By F. H. Gerrish. THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. By F. PL Cterrish. The Spleen 793 Tlie Parathyroids 799 The Thyroid Body 796 The Carotid Glands 800 Tlie Thymus 797 The Coccygeal Gland • 800 The Suprarenal Capsules 79815 CONTENTS. THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. By G. D. PAGE The Male Organs of Generation. The Testicles 801 Tlie Vas Deferens 807 The Seminal Vesicles 808 The Ejuculatory Ducts 809 The Scrotum 809 The Spermatic Cord 812 The Penis 812 The Prostate Gland 818 The Bulbo-urethral Glands 820 The Muscles of the Male Perineum .... 820 The Anal Group 821 The Genito-urinary Group 821 PRACTICAL By F. H. Directions for Dissecting . . 883 Division of the Cadaver . . . 885 The Thorax and Upper Limb 886 Thoracic Cavity 886 Front of the Arm 886 Front of tiie Forearm 886 The Palm 886 Back of Thorax and Upper Limb . . 887 Back of the Arm 887 Back of tiie Forearm 887 Back of the Hand 887 The Abdomen and Lower Limb 887 The Abdomen 887 Abdominal Cavity 888 Abdomen Proper 888 The Pelvic Cavity of the Male . . 888 The Pelvic Cavity of the Female . 888 The Male Perineum 888 The Female Perineum 889 Front of the Thigh 889 Stewart. PAGE The Female Organs of Generation. The Ovaries 822 The Fallopian Tubes 827 The Uterus 829 The Vagina 835 The Vulva 837 The Mons Veneris 838 The Labia Majora 838 The Labia Minora 839 The Interlabial Space 839 Erectile Organs 840 Glands 841 The Muscles of the Female Perineum . . . 842 The Mammary Glands 843 871 ANATOMY. Gerrish. Inner Side of the Thigh 889 Front of the Leg and Dorsum of the Foot 889 Outer Side of the Leg 889 Back of the Hip 890 Back of the Thigh 890 Back of tiie Leg 890 The Sole 890 The Head and Xeck 890 Cranial Region 890 Inside of tlie Cranium 891 Back of the Neck 891 Side of the Neck 891 The Face 892 Temporal and Zygomatic Fossae .... 892 Mandibular Eegion 892 Deep Parts of the Neck 892 Prevertebral Region 892 The Orbit 892 The Back 893 RELATIONAL ANATOMY. By F. H. Gerrish. Plane Sections . 847 j Normal Skiagraphs Surface Anatomy 857 |2 17 A TEXT-BOOK OF ANATOMY. INTRODUCTORY. By F. H. GERRISH. Definition of Anatomy, and Divisions of the subject.—Names and Delimitations of Surface Parts.—The Systems of Oreans, and their Functions.—The Order of Topics.—Methods of Study. ANATOMY is the science of organization. It treats of the structure of j\. organized beings. Not all of the beings in the world can properly be said to have a structure. We may speak of the structure of a ilo\ver, however simple, but we never associate the idea of structure with a crystal. The flower has petals, and calyx, and stamen, and other parts, each differing in look, texture, strength, and use from all the rest. The crystal is of the same material and appearance throughout : it is a mass which is equally dense, equally strong, equally colored in one part as in another—it is homogeneous ; that is to say, its physical qualities are evenly distributed. Tlie flower is easily seen to have organs, each of which has its own peculiar office; the crystal has no organs whatever. The one is organized—it has a structure; the other is not organized —it has no structure. Therefore we may study the anatomy of a flower, but there is no anatomy of a crystal for us to study. Let us here draw a distinction between the words organized and organic. The first relates to anything which has organs—parts which are ditferentiated from each other; the second is applied to things which result from the vital activity of organized beings. Thus, caseine, which exists in milk and is the characteristic material in cheese, is organic, for it is a result of the activity of a living creature; but it is not organized, having no structure, one portion being exactly like every other. Many things—for example, water—are neither organized nor organic ; they are inorganic. All organized beings belong to one or the other of two great groups—plants and animals. The distinction may not be essential; indeed, there are creatures upon the dividing-line between these groups whose nature is not yet determined —perhaps they are plants, ]ierhaps they are animals. But, although it may be impossible to give a definition which shall include all of either group without taking in some belonging to the other, these terms are not in the least likely to mislead us. The study of the structure of plants is called vegetahle anatomy, and is thus distinguished from animal anatomy, which has to do with the organ- ization of the members of the other group of creatures. Physiologii is often used, carelessly, synonymously with anatomy, but they are absolutely distinct. Anatomy is the science of structure ; jjhysiology is the science of function. Anatomy teaches us what organs a plant or animal has; physiology teaches us to what use these organs are put. Anatomy shows whatINTRO D UCTOR Y. 18 au organ is ; physiology shows what an organ does. Anatomy may be, and nsually is, stndicd npon the dead creature ; physiology can be studied only upon the living—it requires organization in action. Of all animals, tlie human was the first whose anatomy was studied A\ ith great care. Naturally, men were more interested to know what they could about their own bodies than about those of other creatures ; and when thev did inves- tigate the structure of the members of lower oi'ders, it was to be expected that they would institute comparisons between the organs of the latter and those in themselves which seemed to correspond. Thus it came about that thev called the science of the structure of all other animals coniparatire (inatomy, to distin- guish it from the science of their own organizations, which is hiimnn anatomy. If they had begun their study of animal structure at the other end of the scale, taking first animals of the simplest organization and working up gradually through a series, each member of which was more elaborately constituted than its immediate predecessor, until they reached man, the term comparative anatomy would not be used in the sense in which it is usually employed. But, althougli we recognize the defects of their method, we must confess that in the same circaim- stances we would doubtless have done precisely as they did. Now-a-days, how- ever, the student is counselled to begin with simple and easily understood struc- tures, in order to prepare himself for the readier comprehension of the more comjjlex, and finally of the most intricate. The study of the anatomy of the lower animals is an admirable—indeed, the best—preparation for that of human anatomy. One who is familiar with the structure of one animal in the great group in which man belongs, as the cat, for example, will find human anatomy immensely simplified. But com]>arative anatomy, as a separate branch, has no right to a place in the course of study in a medical school, and only occasionally and incidentally will it be referred to in this book. Human anatomy is subdivided, according to the means employed in its study, into two great parts : gross or macroscojnc anatomy, in which no aids to vision are emj^loyed, and minute or rnk-roscopic anatomy, in which the assistance of optical instruments is used. According to the method pursued in its study gross anatomy is subdivided into systematic and relational. Systematic anatomy, called also eleso-iptire anat- omy, regards the body as made up of systems or sets of organs. For example, considering the human being from this point of view, we find that it has a nervous system (brain, spinal cord, nerves, etc.), a circulatory system (heart, blood-vessels, etc.), a digestive system (stomach, intestines, etc.), an osseous system (bones, etc.), a muscular system (muscles, etc.), a respiratory system (luDgs, windpipe, etc.), an excretory system (kidneys, bladder, etc.), a reproduc- tive system (ovaries, testicles, etc.). Knowledge of the various organs comprised in eaeli of these systems is essential to tlie practitioner of medicine and surgery. But if he knows each of these systems only in a separate and unassociated way, he is far from being equijiped anatomically as he ought to be. He still needs to learn how each part of every system is related to each part of every other system, and particularly what are the relations of each object to all of the other objects in its neighborhood or region. In other words, he must know his anatomy not only from the systematic ])oint of view, but from the relational. Other names given to this method of study are regional anatomy, because by it the body is divided into regions for investigation ; topographical (from the Greek word meaning "place"), a term used by civil engineers to designate a survey in which the position of every part of the tei-ritory involved is deter- mined relatively to every other part; surgical, because operations cannot safely be performed without knowledge thus acquired ; medical, because it is necessary to accurate diagnosis of disease of internal organs. Systematic anatomy is made possible by dissection, by which is meant the careful and delicate cutting apart of the various structures, so that they can be observed and studied. It is practised upon the dead body. Much of relational19 INTBOD UCTOB Y. anatomy also can be acquired in this, way; but a very modern method has revealed a multitude of facts in this connection which were previously unknown, and are incapable of demonstration by dissection alone. This new method is that of plane sections. The sections are made in the following manner : a body is frozen so hard that a saw, in cutting through it, encounters no more resistance in bone than in muscle. Cuts with a saw are made in any direction which one chooses, but the most common are the horizontal, the vertical sidewise (also called "coronal" or "frontal"), and the vertical foi-e-and-aft (known also as " sagittal"). The cut having been made, the saw-dust is very carefully cleared away from the surfaces, and the relations of the parts which have been brought to view are studied. As an elevation of temperature above the freezing-point will impair the fixity of the specimens, and as it is manifestly out of the question to maintain such a degree of cold permanently or to study the specimens com- fortably during its continuance, it is usual to photograph them, or immerse them in a preservative fluid in flat vessels covered with plain glass, or to adopt both of these devices for continuing the study. Students are not expected to do this work, which involves great labor, skill, and, for interpretation of the appear- ances of the sections, a high degree of anatomical knowledge; but they can avail themselves of the results of this method by studying the actual sections or casts of them in their medical schools, or, what is sometimes better because more intel- ligible, pictures of sections made from photographs and labelled in detail. Minute or microscopie anatomy deals with those features of structure which are too small to be recognized by the unaided eye. It can be studied only with the assistance of a microscope. A branch of microscopic anatomy is histolor/t/ (the name coming from the Greek Avord for " texture"), which is the science of the tissues. But the name histology lias been much used synonymously for microscopic anatomy, the whole getting its designation from a part, as in many other cases in our language. Histology is sometimes called general anatomy, because the tissues are distributed to all parts—are genei'al to the various organs. A homely illustration will serve to make the diflPerence between these various subdivisions of anatomy clear. We may use the word " anatomy " with refer- ence to artificial structures, as, for instance, the anatomy of a steam-engine or of a watch or of a house. Let us, then, regard a house from the points of view successively of the systematic anatomist, the topographic anatomist, and the histologist. The first of the trio considers the house as made up of sets of organs, a series of apartments devoted to alimentary pm-jioses, as the kitchen and dining-room ; another set used for sleeping—the bed-chambers ; one for study—the library, and so on ; a system of tubes conveying water to various parts of the establishment; another lot bearing illuminating gas to every room ; a third sujiplying steam or hot air for raising the temperature ; and still another carrying otf liquid waste materials; large, vertical pipes by which injurious products of combustion are conducted away ; a quantity of wires adapted to the conveyance of electricity for various purposes within the house, and a set of rods designed to keep electricity out of it. Thus he finds whatever organs go to com- pose a house, and describes each set by itself, so that a person who desires to know about any system of apparatus—as, for example, that used for heating or that for sewerage—can learn about it by consulting the record of the investi- gator's observations. The topogra])hic anatomist approaches the question of the structure of the house in an entirely diflerent way. He examines the building by such means that, without actually cutting it into slices, he is able to make drawings which show just what these plane sections would display if they were made. He does not concern himself with any separate system of rooms or rods or pipes or wires, but he studies the relations which obtain between all of the objects which he sees in each of his imaginary sections. For example, he observes that the parlor is related to the cellar below, to a bed-chamber above, to a library behind.20 INTROD UCTOR Y. to a corridor at one side, and a roofed piazza on two sides. He notes tlie electric wires, tlie gas- and steam- and water- and waste-pipes within the walls of the room, the chimney which projects into it, and the relations which these snstain to the room itself and to eac;h other. He proceeds thus until every region of the house is investigated and mapped out, and when he has done all this one can get from his records a complete idea of the relations of every piece of the structure to every other. Finally comes the histologist, who, disregarding systems of organs and heed- less of the relations between various parts, looks only at the structural materials entering into the composition of the house ; in other words, its tissues. He finds that the house is made up of stones, bricks, boards, beams, nails, slates, and many other things, which present to the eye definite forms by which they are recognizable. It may be that some one kind of these structural elements varies in shape and in other respects in diiferent parts, as, for instance, the bricks, which ai'e of one form, size, and smoothness in the outside wall, ditferent in all of these respects in the inner wall, and unlike either of the other kinds in the fire-places; but they are all readily seen to belong in the same category. Each of these three methods of considering the house has its uses; each alone is seen to be inadequate to convey a comprehensive idea of the building. An architect employs all of them : he is, as regards houses, a systematic anatonn"st, a relational anatomist, and a histologist; he knows what the organs of a building are, how they stand in space with refei^ence to each other, and of what textures they are constructed. For exactly the same reason every practitioner of medicine must be a human anatomist in all three of these ways. He finds one disease affecting a given system—as, for example, the alimentary—and therefore has to know the organs of this system as a continuous series ; he meets with another disease involving, not a set of physiologically associated organs, but a number of parts winch are related to each other in a geographical way, oecu])ying a limited region, and consequently he needs to be acquainted with the organs or parts of organs belonging to half a dozen ditl'erent systems. In either case he may be unahle to appreciate the condition of affairs if he is ignorant of the tissues entering into the composition of the structures which are invaded. The body may be considered anatomically from still other points of view. If it is in a state of health, the study of its structure is normal anatomy ; if it is in a condition of disease, pathological or morbid anatomy. When the organ- ization is studied with especial reference to function, we pursue the method of physiological anatomy. The consideration of the plan or model upon which organs are formed constitutes morphological anatomy; and as the discussion of such matters is attended necessarily with more or less of speculation, the synonyms philosophic and transcendental anatomy are often em])loyed. The object which the investigator has in view determines the division of the subject. Thus, if he studies the body with the purpose of representing it in a pictorial or plastic way, it is artistic anatomy ; if his only intent is to acquire knowledge which will be especially serviceable in the practice of the healing art, it is applied or clinical anatomy. Practical ancdomy is a name employed to indicate the study of the body by dissection. It will be understood, however, that we confine ourselves to human anatomy solely ; that we regard it only in its normal aspects ; that, unless otherwise sjjeci- fied, the adult condition is assumed ; and that we consider anatomy chiefly with a view to the interest which it must have for the student who desires to fit him- self for the work of the medical profession. This will involve the study of systematic, relational, and microscopic anatomy, and in the treatment of many topics all three of these methods will go along hand in hand. Frequently the physiological anatomy will be presented at the opening of a section, because it is so much easier to inidev'stand a machine if we enter upon its study with a distinct idea of the work which it is capable of performing, than if we have no notion of its function.NAMES AND DELIMITATIONS OF SURFACE PARTS. 21 The following tabulation will aid in I'ecalling the principal points which have been made : f Vegetable Anatomy - f Comparative (all f Systematic, or Descriptive. ■ [Animal -| Gross, or Macroscopic Relational, Topographic, [ Human (man) ^ jj;,^^^^^^ Microscopic ^ Regional, t (Histology) NAMES AND DELIMITATIONS OF SURFACE PARTS. At the outset of anatomical study it is important to have the clearest possible conception of the limits set by nature or hy convention to the various parts which will be referred to constantly in the following ]:iages, and also to have for each of these parts a name which shall be used for that and for nothing else. All parts, even the minutest, have technical names, which are Latin in form, and almost all parts Avhich are visible without dissection, and those which are brought into view by accident, have, besides the scientific, vernacular appellations—names given by non-medical people who never had a thought of knowing anatomy. The scientific name of a part is understood in every land where medicine is cultivated; the vernacular designation in one language is generally difierent from that in every other, and frequently essentially so. Thus, what we call *'head" in English is "t^te" in French, " kopf" in German, "testa" in Italian ; and the anatomist who is acquainted with no modern language but his own can understand only that one of these words which belongs to his native tongue. " Caput," however, means the same thing to English, French, German, and Italian, for all scientific men are supposed to know something of Latin, the language of scientific nomenclature. Only a small proportion of the names applicable to anatomical parts is included in the vocabulary of the common people, but anatomists generally use these in their writings ; for the suggestion of pedantry which inevitably would come from the invariable employment of the technical terms instead of the existing vernacular words would be almost intolerably offensive. Unfortunately, however, quite a number of these vernac- ular titles ai'e used by anatomists with different significations fi'om those Avhich they have to the unscientific ; and hence it seems necessary to explain Avhat meaning we shall attach to these words, which have been familiar to us from the cradle. It may seem to some readers needless to undertake this ennmei-ation and definition. But a large observation of medical students through many years has demonstrated that it is Ingbiy desirable to do exactly this tiling. People of much more than ordinary intelligence and educa- tion rarely have any idea of the difference between the meaning which many a word has to medical men and that which is attached to it generally. When a surgeon hears through a non- medical source that a person has broken a leg or an arm, he simply gathers the impression that a fracture is supposed to have occurred in a lower limb in the one case and in an upper limb in the other case; but if leg or arm is mentioned by a medical man, he knows that the third segment of the lower extremity is meant in the first instance, and the second segment of the upper extremity in the second. "Wrist" to the laity means anywhere from the upper level of the palm to nearly halfway up the forearm; "hip" is used instead of "thigh," mention of the latter, for some inexplicaljle reason, being at present considered even more indelicate than that of "leg," for which polite usage has substituted " limb." These few selections from a considerable number will serve, it is hoped, to justify the attempt which is here made in the interest of precision of language and of thought. In order to understand the application of the terms intended to designate the relation in space which different jiarts of the body sustain to each other, it is necessary to know Avhat is regarded as the anatomical position. This is the erect attitude, Avith the palms of the hands turned to the front, and the soles of the feet horizontal—that is, facing downward. To the anatomist " head" {eapid) means all of the mass Avhich is balanced00 IXTEOD UCTOE Y. on die neck, the front and lower portions being " face " {fades), the upper and back " cranium," the dividing-line bet-\veen the two parts starting at the so-called root of the nose in the mid-line, and extending on each side beneath the over- hanging brows and downward and backward to the ear. But " head," in com- mon parlance, means at some times all that we have included, as in decapitation : at otliers only the cranium, as in the use of the word headache. " Face " with the people embraces the anatomical flice and also the anterior portion of the cranium : a beautiful face would be considered desecrated if its picture showed nothing above the eyeballs. And yet " face " is often used in a more restricted sense than the anatomical, as when one speaks of faceache, meaning pain in the cheek region only. Fig. 1.—Side view of cranium and face. (F. H. G.) The cranium is subdivided (Fig. 1) into an anterior part, the "forehead" ifrons); an ujiper, the "crown" {vciiex or sinciput); a back, the occiput; and, on each side, the temple (tempus). There are no sui-face-markings by which these are absolutely delimited. At the lower portion of the temporal region is the flaring part of the ear, known by anatomists to be the least imjjortant division of the organ of hearing (auris), but thought by peoj^le commonly to be about all of it, and con- sequently named " ear." The forehead terminates below at the " nose " (na-ms) in the middle line, and on each side of this, in an arched border, u.sually covered with short, crisp hairs, and called the " brow " (supercilium). In the face immediately beneath each broAv is an "'eye" (oculu-s), that is, an eyeball or globe, shielded above by an "upper lid" (paJpebra superior) and below by a "lower lid" {jxil- pjcbra inferior), their edges fringed with short hairs, the " la.shes " {ciliet). Be- tween the eyes and in the middle of the face, below their level, is the projecting part of the nose, which is all that is generally recognized as nose. This has on each side below an opening, presenting downw ard, the " nostril" (naris), guarded on the outer side by a flaring projection, the " wing of the nose " (ala nasi). "What is commonly called the " bridge of the nose," a prominence caused by the nasal bones, has no technical designation. At a short distance beneath the nose is a transverse slit, to wliich, as well as to the cavity of which it is the 023ening, is given the name "mouth" (os). Above this a2)ertm'e is the " upj^er23 jStames and delimitattoxs of surface parts. lip" (labium mperius), and underneath it the " lower lip '' {labium inferius). Pop- ularly, the word mouth is often applied to the lips, as when a woman is said to have a pretty mouth—a comment which manifestly is not intended for the slit- like opening, and still less for the cavity behind it. (It may not be amiss to call attention to the foct that the Latin os, meaning a mouth, has oris for its genitive, and gives origin to our English oral; whereas os, meaning a bone, is ossis in the genitive, and thus stands behind our English osseous.) The upper lip extends vertically from the nose above to the free border below, and later- allv to the crease which cotirses down and out from the hind border of the Aving of the nose, and is called the geno-labial sulcus; the lower lip extends from its free edge above to a transverse crease, the mento-labial sulcus, which presents a downward concavity, and separates the lip from the chin. The middle portion of the upper lip projects farther downward than do the parts which bound it laterally, and its skin surface is marked by a somewhat tri- angular depression, the philtrum. The border of the skin of this lip describes a line which is a mark of beauty, and is called by artists the bow of Cupid. The "chin" (mentum, genium) is the central prominence which finishes the face below, in and near the mid-line. It is not distinctly separated from the cheeks. The main part of each lateral aspect of the face is the "cheek" (mala, gena), which presents a broad, quadrilateral expanse, botmded below by the inferior border of the lower jaw, behind by the vertical portion of the bone of this jaw, above by the lower margin of the orbit (the cavity lodging the eye) and by the ridge of bone running back from it, and in front above by the side of the nose, below this by the geno-labial sulcus, which separates the cheek from the upper lip. The outlines of the lower part of the face are determined largely by its framework, the inferior jaw-bone (mandibula), which, with its varioits attach- ments and coverings, constitutes the under jaw (maxilla inferior). The upper jaw-bone is the staging upon which the greater part of the central zone of the face reposes. On separation of the lips the " teeth " (dentes) are seen projecting beyond the " gums " {gingiva-) in two arches with the convexities forward ; and on depressing the lower jaw a view of the cavity of the mouth is obtained. In its floor we see the muscular " tongite " (lingua) with its rough upper surface; its roof is formed by the "hard palate" {palatum durura), and behind is the "soft palate" {palaturn nioUe) hanging like a short curtain over the base of the tongue. Between the two upright ridges to which the soft palate extends on each side is the " tonsil" {tonsilla, amygdala), and beneath the pendulous veil of the palate we can see a paii: of the rear wall of a cavity for which the laity have no name, but which we know as the phariin.v. The "neck" {cervix, collum) connects the head and the trunk (Fig. 2). In front it extends from the level of the lower jaw to the " breast-bone " {sternum) in the middle line and the " collar-bone " (clavicula) on each side. These bones can readily be felt through the overlying structures. Behind, in the middle line, the neck extends from the base of the cranium to the seventh segment of the back-bone or spine, the tip of which can be both felt and seen projecting beyond the plane of any of its fellows above. Between this segment {veiiebra 2:)rominens) and the collar-bones—that is, at the sides—there is no clear demarcation of the neck from the trunk when the upper limbs hang passively : there is usually an unbroken slope from the head to the peak of the shoulder. But if the shoulders are raised straight upward, a crease is produced which sharply indicates the boundaries of the neck for two-thirds or more of the distance, and suggests the line for the remainder. In this attitude of hunched shoulders the neck rises like a column from a depressed base. Although not exact in every respect, this technical delimitation of the neck is vastly more definite, as well as more restricted, than that which is in popular vogue concerning women arrayed in what is known as " full dress," whose necks, varying at different times according to the dictates of fashion, may find their lower limits anywhere between the collar-bones and the nipples in front, and between the vertebra prominens andFig. 2.—Front view of a man in the anatomical position. On one lateral half the parts are labelled in English, on the other in Latin. (F. H. G.)25 NAMES AND DELIMITATIONS OF SURFACE PARTS. the small of the back behind. The word " throat" has no anatomical equivalent. It is variously used to designate the front part of the rieck, or the tonsils and adjacent parts of the soft palate, or the pharynx, or the organ of voice {lanpix). High up on the neck in front is a hard protrusion, more prominent in men than in women, caused by the thyroid cartilage of the larynx, and called " Adam's apple " {pomum Adami) in playful celebration of the most noted and unfortunate gastro- nomic performance on record. The median portion of the neck behind is the ^' nape " (nucha). Just above the top of the breast-bone is often seen a little pit, esteemed a mark of beauty by artists, who have named it " Diana's pool." The body pi'oper, as distinguished from the entire organism, is known as the ^' trunk " (truncus), and jjresents two grand divisions, the upper of which is the ''chest" (thorax), the lower the "belly" (abdomen). The superficial line of separa- tion between them is pronounced, and is made by the bones and cartilages which form the lower border of the thoracic cage, as the skeleton of the upper cavity is called. Sloping downward and outward from the lower part of the breast-bone, the boundary- line is continued backward at the sides, and then obliquely upward behind. But this surface marking is by no means an indica- tion of the relative size of the two cavities : it only shows the line along which is at- tached the base of a muscular dome, the diaphragm or midriff, whose central portion rises to the level of a point about halfway up the sternum, and shuts off the cavity of the thorax from that of the abdomen. Thus, the summit of the belly-cavity is rounded, presenting a marked convexity upward, and the base of the chest-cavity, into which the former rises, is correspond- ingly concaved. From the front of the chest of the adult female there projects a nearly hemispherical mass on each side (Fig. 3). This is the "breast" (mamma), the organ in which milk is formed. The valley between these hillocks is properly the " bosom," but this word is often used as synonymous with s.-Front of torso of woman, (f. h. g.) breast. At about the central point of each mamma stands out the nipple or teat (mammilla, literally " the little breast"), its base surrounded by a circular space which is distinguished by the darkness of its skin, and is called the areola (literally "the little area") or the "halo." The male has no milk-forming organ, but he has in the same relative situation upon the chest-wall slightly developed mammillte. These are good illustrations of a rule that the generative organs which are fully developed in one sex are aborted in the other, being represented in the latter by some little bulge or dimple, whose only use seems to be to suggest the narrow escape of its possessor from being of the opposite sex. The belly at its upper central part presents a shallow depression, popularly called the "pit of the stomach," but technically serobicidus cordis, which literally means " the little pit of the heart." This confusion of names arises from the physical (not the figurative) nearness of the heart and stomach, the one resting upon, the other lying underneath, the diaphragm, and both being in the region of this slight hollow. Farther down in the mid-line, and usually nearly onINTROD UCTOR Y. 26 a horizontal drawn between the highest points of the haunoh-bones, is an irreg- ular, puckered dimple, the " navel," called in Latin vinbi/icHx, from umbo, the button in the centre of an ancient shield; so that we see that the childish name for the part—belly-button—has the sanction of a noble classical derivation. Following down in the middle line, we find at its lowest part an area which extends considerably sidewise, and is covered in the adult with crisp, curly hairs. This is the pubes. Behind the skin of the pubes the male has a little pad of fat, and the slight elevation which is thus produced is sometimes called inons pubis— that is, the mountain of the pubes. In the grown female there is so marked an accumulation of fat here as to make a very noticeal)le hillock, which is named mons Venci-is (the mount of Venus), in honor of the Roman goddess of love. Fig. 4.—The male perineum and surrounding parts. (After His.) Running obliquely upward and outward from the pubic region on each side is a crease which separates the trunk from the lower limb in front, and is called the "groin" [inguen). The name is usually applied to a narrow but indetermi- FiG. 5.—The female perineum and surrounding parts. (After His.) nate area of the abdomen immediately above this shallow furrow, and the adjacent area of the thigh just below it. Below the pubes are some of the generative organs—those which are super- ficially located, the external genitals (genitalia externa). In the male is the oi'gan of copulation, whose technical title, penis, has practically displaced the entireFig. 6.—Back view of a man. On one lateral half the names of the parts are given in English, on the other in Latin. (F. H. G.)28 INTROn UCTOR Y. group of Anglo-Saxon names by wliich it was formerly known. The free end of the penis, the "head," or glans penis (literally "the gland of the penis," from its resemblance to some internally located secreting glands), is covered by a long, movable fold of integument, the "foreskin," or "prepuce" (jyrejmtmm). At the tip of the glans is a little slit, meatus urlnariiis, the termination of the com- mon passage-Avay of the urine and semen. Behind the penis hangs the " bag " {scrotum) in which are suspended the essential male organs of generation, the two " balls " or " stones." which are more usually called by their Latin name testes (witnesses) or by the Anglicized diminutive of this Avord, " testicles." In the female the grouj) of external genitals is designated by the name vulva, for which modern English dictionaries, with a fastidiousness not always imitated in popular speech, afford no single-word synonym. These structures are sometimes called pudenda, which means " things to be ashamed of"—as if such a criticism could justly be applied to the organs which are necessary for the ])erpetuation of the human race. The vulva presents a fore-and-aft cleft, which starts just below the pubes and runs backward between the thighs. This fissure is bounded later- ally by thick folds of skin, labia majora (the greater lips), upon separation of which are seen the clitoris (which is the sujipressed representative of the penis), two thin folds of membrane, labia minora (the smaller lips), the meatus urinarius, and the opening of the vagina, the tube which leads to the " womb " (uterus). Behind the external genitals of both sexes, between the thighs, and in front of the lower opening of the bowels is a narrow antero-posterior area called perineum, a word with no vernacular equivalent (Figs. 4 and 5). The rear limit of the perineum is marked by the outer opening of the emus, the terminal portion of the alimentary canal. The posterior surface of the trunk (Fig. 6), generally called the " back" (dorsum), shows in the middle line from end to end a furi'ow in which appears a continuous series of bony prominences, each of which belongs to a separate segment of the pile of bones called the sj^inal column, or, naming tlie whole from a part, merely the spine or back-bone. Between the lower margin of the thoracic cage and the crest of the hip on each side, in the region known as the small of the back, is a "loin" (luvibvs). Projecting from the trunk are the "limbs" or "extremities" {membra or extremitdtes,) arranged in two pairs, an upper and a lower. Each pair has a bilateral symmetry, and therefore the statements which apjily to one limb need not be repeated for its mate of the opposite side. The " U])]X'r limb " or " ujiper extremity " (inembrum superius or extremitas superior) is divided naturally into four distinct segments. These, in regular order from above downward, are shoulder, arm, forearm, and hand. The "shoulder" {oinof<) connects the trunk and arm. The "arm " {brachiuu}) extends between the shoulder- and elbow-joints. Beneath the shoulder-joint, and between the side of the chest and the arm, is a pyramidal space, with its base presenting downward, called the " arm-pit" {etxillei). The " forearm " is known as antebrachium, which is the exact Latin equivalent of the English name, and also as cubitus, from which comes the name of a measure of length anciently employed. It includes all between the elbow- and wrist-joints. Its upper end is marked behind by a prom- inence, the " elbow" {euicoit). The fourth and final segment of the upper limb is the "hand" (manus). This is subdivided into a proximal portion, the "wrist" (car2)us), a central part, which constitutes the body of the hand, the ineteicarpus (meaning "beyond the carpus"), and a distal part, the digits" (digiti). The front surface of the metacarpus is the "palm" (palma), and the hind surface is "the "back" {dorsum manus). There are five digits to each hand, numerically named, beginning with that farthest fi'om the median line of the body and counting inward. They have also other designations, which are used with equal or greater frequency. The first digit (r?/f/;Y{ts ■primus) is the "thumb" (pollex); the second (digitus secimdus) is the " fore finger" {eligitus index); tlie third {eligitus tertius) is the "middle finger" (digitus medius) ; the fourth (digitus quartus) is29 THE SYSTE3IS OF ORGANS AND THEIR FUNCTIONS. the "ring finger" {digitus annHhiris, from annus, "a ring"); and the fifth (digitus quintus) is the " little finger " {digitus minimus, litei'ally " the least finger "). Each digit has three segments, except the thumb, which has but two. The lower limb is the homologue of the upper—that is, it is built on substan- tially the same structural plan/ It has four segments : hip, thigh, log, and foot, which corresi^ond respectively to shoulder, arm, forearm, and hand. Between hip and thigh is tlie hip-joint; l)et\veen thigh and leg, the knee-joint; and between leg and foot, the ankle-joint. The " hip," or haunch (coxa), is so firmly united to the back-bone that it serves as a portion of the wall of the abdomen, the greater cavity of the trunk. Behind the hip and immediately below the loin is a large mass of muscle and fat, the "buttock" (natis). The "thigh" extends from the hip to the leg, and is technically called/oh (tv, whicli name is also applied to the single bone that forms its framework. The prominence in front at its lower end is the " knee " {genu), and the space opposite tlie knee on the posterior aspect is the "ham" {poples). The mistake of calling the buttocks the hams is often made, but has no justification. From knee-joint to ankle-joint is the "leg" {crus). Its rear bulge is the "calf" {sura or gastrocueviia, literally "the belly of the leg"), and the sharp vertical ridge in front is the "shin." At the lower end of the leg are two bony prominences, the "inner ankle" {malleolus internus) and the " outer ankle " {incdleolus externus). Malleolus means " a little hammer." The " foot" {pes), like its homologue the hand, is divided into three parts—a hindmost, the tarsus, a middle, the mefcdarsus, and a foremost or distal, the "digits" {digiti). The "instep" of popular nomenclature has no equivalent in anatomical terminology, as it includes pai'ts of both tarsus and metatarsus; and, on the other hand, there are no vernacular words corresponding to tarsus and metatarsus. The part of the tarsus which projects to the rear is the heel (calx); the top of the foot is its " back " {dorsum pedis); and the entire under surface is the "sole" {planta). The five digits are designated numerically, like their homologues in the hand, the count beginning, however, not at the outer end of the series, but at the inner—that nearer the median line of the body. Thus, the "toes" or digits of the foot {digiti pjedis) arc first, second, third, fourth, and fifth {primus, seeundus, tertius, quartus, and quintus), respectively. But the first and last have other names also, the one being commonly called the " great toe" {pollex pedis, "the thumb of the foot," or hcdlux); and the other the " little toe" {digitus mini inus pedis, literally " the smallest digit of the foot"). In giving the Latin names for the toes it is rarely necessary to employ j)(dis (" of the foot") to distinguish those of the lower extremity, as the context indicates which limb is concerned ; and it is never essential to say manus (" of the hand "), as this is understood unless the contrary is obvious. THE SYSTEMS OF ORGANS AND THEIR FUNCTIONS. In studying anatomy the thoughtful learner is almost certain to conclude that he needs to know a great deal about every other part in order to comprehend fully the one which he has in hand. No organ, h(jwever simple, is independent: every one is so related to others, perhaps to many otliers, that they are absolutely essential to its life. In the same way it is true that some knowledge of many is necessary to the complete, or even sufficient, understanding of a single one. This fact constitutes a chief obstacle in the path of the anatomical student; but it may be diminished very considerably, and its residue rendered less discour- aging, by his having pi'esented to his mind at the beginning of his course a con- ' The difference between homology and analofty must be borne in mind. Homology relates to similarity of structure, analogy to likeness of function. The two do not always go together. For example, the upper limb of a man and that of a liird are homologous, because they are constructed on the same plan ; but they are not analogous, because the one is used for prehension (grasping), and the other for locomotion (flying). The organization in the two cases is strikingly similar ; the func- tion is radically diflerent. But compare the wing of a bird with that of a butterfly ; both are devoted to the same use—namely, flying; but they are essentially diflerent in structural plan, as can be seen on the most cursory inspection. Therefore they are analogous, but not homologous.30 INTBOD UCTOB Y. cise recital of the principal organs of the body and a statement of the chief function of each. In this way he will learn a number of most useful anatomical facts, and they will be grasped all the more readily because they are strung on a physiological thread. In the few succeeding pages an eftbrt is made to aflbrd the student just this assistance. Organs Removing Waste Matters. The human body is a machine, and, like every other machine, wears out in using. We all know that even in circumstances favorable for the preservation of a corpse, such as coolness and dryness of the atmosphere, it undergoes destruc- tive changes so rapidly that before many days have passed what was once an object of beauty and the occasion of delighted admiration becomes altogether grewsome and revolting. And yet, swift as is this putrefaction, the wearing out of the tissues in life is more speedy. Tlie greater the physical activity of a man, the more rapidly are his textures broken down. Every movement, however trifling, every glance of the eye, every thrill of sensation, every thought or emotion, is attended with destruction of substance. The products of this waste are poisonous, and if retained in the system in any considerable amount cause sickness and even death. But there are channels by which these effete and toxic materials are continually escaping—namely, the lunc/s, the skin, the Icidnei/s, and the boioels. Water, the common vehicle in the body-changes, carries them out in solution. The solvent and vehicular services of water are very manifest in the case of the urine, which is loaded with the waste escaping through the kidneys ; and they are often as plain in the case of the perspiration, which contains the effete matters discharged through the skin. The exci'ement which comes from the bowels is not in solution when it appears, but this is due to its loss of water subsequently to its formation and during its detention in the intes- tine. Other products of decomposition are borne out with-every expired breath, this being saturated with water, as appears by its visible condensation whenever the surrounding air is sufficiently cooled. The Vascular System, At this point there natui'ally arises the question of the means by which the various effete materials that are constantly being formed in every ])art of the body get to the four outlets named. This carriage is accomplished by the vascular system, which consists, first, of a complicated series of tubes, the blood-vessels, connected witli which is a |)0\verful organ, the heart, which drives the blood in a continuous current through them ; and, second, of another set of tubes, the lyiii^jh-vesse/s, whose stream of lymph flows into that of the blood. Almost everywhere in the body there are minute crevices between the elementary particles and threads of the tissues, and into these chinks the textures discharge their wasted molecules, always in solution in water. These tissue-crannies com- municate with little cylindrical tubes, into which the liquefied waste is poured. The tubes are lym])h-vessels, and they conduct their contents to certain blood- vessels, where it mingles with the current of blo(xl. Some effete matters pass from the tissues directly into the blood. The blood is contained in and com- pletely fills the heart and the blood-vessels associated with it, these being, first, the arteries, which are tubes through which the blood flows from the heart to the tissues ; second, capillaries, microscopic tubes of wonderful thinness and delicacy, through Avhich the blood flows in the midst of the tissues ; and, third, veins, through which the blood flows cdrai/ from the tissues. The heart, which is a kind of force-pump, drives tlie blood through this great system of tubes in a ceaseless stream, and thus brings it in practical contact with the tissue-elements that make up the various organs. When the blood, laden with impure matters from every part of the body, conies to one of the organs (kidneys, lungs, bowels.31 ORGANS SUPPLYING N0UBISH3IENT. or skin) which is capable of withdrawing decomposition-products from it, the particular poison which this organ can abstract is removed, and the blood is by just so much rendered less impure. Coming to another one of them, it gets rid of the foul material which can be unloaded at this door of exit; and so on at the others. The lungs are sewers for certain excrementitious substances, the kidneys for others, the skin for a third group, and the intestines for the remainder. In this way are eliminated all of the materials which result from the constant wearing out of the body. Org-ans Supplying Nourishment. If there were no compensation for the destructive changes which are going on incessantly, in a very short time every life would cease. But just in pro])or- tion to the extent of the waste, and ]:)ractically simultaneously with it, repair takes place. As an old particle lapses from a tissue a new one supplies its place without delay, even as the ranks of an army, though constantly suffering from the ravages of disease, death, and desertion, are kept full by the enrolment of fresh recruits. The portals of the body by which the new materials are intro- duced are the respiratory and the alimentary organs. First of all in importance is the respiratory system, which embraces the nasal passages, the pharynx, the larynx, the windpipe, the bronchi, the bronchial tubes, and the lungs, the last being the essential parts. But some critic observes immediately that the lungs have been mentioned already as channels of elimina- tion. Very true, but they are also channels of appropriation. Not only do they expel vile and injurious waste matters with eveiy outgoing breath, but they admit to the blood pure and sustaining nutrient material with every incoming breath. Here is one of the economies of nature—the wagon is never empty : it carries out the offal and it returns with a load of food. Second, we have the alimentary tube, with its attendant organs, the salivary glands, the pancreas, and the liver. This tube is very long, including the mouth, part of the pharynx, the gullet, the stomach, the small and the large intestines, the last mentioned having, like the lungs, the double and contrary functions of appropriation and excretion. It is furnished with apparatus by which solid food can be chopped, crushed, moistened, and reduced to a pulp, and other contrivances which dissolve and change the food in various ways until it is in such condition that it can pass through the walls of the tube and enter the capillary blood-vessels and lymph- vessels, which form fine networks in the substance of its walls. Passing into these two sets of vessels by tlie process of absorption, some of it reaches the blood immediately, and the remainder somewhat indirectly by way of the lymphatics. The blood, therefore, is seen to be enriched by gaseous material in the lungs and by liquids and liquefied solids in the alimentary tube. All of these additions are brought by the veins to the heart, and thence are pumped into the arteries. The latter pour their contents into the capillaries, which are embedded in the tissues. These minute vessels are so thin that the nutrient sub- stances in the blood can pass through their delicate wall, come into direct contact with the tissues, and flood them with food. To each tissue is offered a repast substantially identical with that furnished to every other, but no two of them choose the same articles from this sumptuous table, each having a selec- tive capacity for those things which are best adapted to the preservation of its own peculiar characteristics. So, each tissue having appropriated whatever it needs, the residue of the nutrient material is carried away by the lymphatics along with the waste products already mentioned. It will be observed that it is the vascular system which takes supplies to the tissues, and the same system which carries from them the products of waste. In connection with the alimentary tube were mentioned, as accessory parts, the salivary glands, the pancreas, and the liver. These are true glands—that is, organs which abstract certain materials from the blood, manufacture them intoINTROD UCTOB Y. 32 new substances, and discharge these last into cavities or upon surfaces. The salivary glands empty their products into the mouth ; the pancreas and the liver pour theirs into the small intestine ; and these fluids—saliva, pancreatic juice, and bile—effect certain digestive changes in the food. Organs of Internal Secretion. There are other organs which resemble true glands in their general gross appearance, but are unlike them in an important respect: they have no tubes through which their products can be discharged upon a surface or into a cavity, and hence they are called ductless glands. They are the thyroid, tlnjvms, and suprarenal bodies. It is supposed that they furnish substances which produce a profound impression upon nutrition, and that these matters, as soon as formed, are thrown into the blood, whence the material for their formation was originally derived. Organs of Motion. Certain organs are devoted to the work of movement. Through their instru- mentality man is enabled to seize and retain his food, to defend himself from and to assail his enemies, to move about from ])lace to place, and to do numberless other acts in which motion is the principal factor. The organs giving man such power are muscles. They form the most of the bulk of the limbs and a great part of the walls of the cavities of the trunk. The lean meat of animals, which is a part of our food, is muscular tissue. Framework Organs. All of tlie organs of the body are held in suitably close relation to each other, and are yet kept from crowding together with injurious force, by certain structures which are called skeletal. The most striking and familiar of these are the bones, which form a stable framework for the various parts, a strong protec- tive wall for cavities containing organs of great delicacy, and powerful levers upon which the muscles act. Cartilages are usually closely associated with bones, but there are cases in which cartilages by themselves perform just such services as bones moi'e commonly do. However conspicuous these hard structures may be in their peculiar line of work, it is doubtful if they are of more use in the animal economy, even in their peculiar province, than are certain soft, flexible tissues. The fibrous tissues do almost all of the minute detail of sup- port, the bones and cartilages being devoted only to the coarser kinds. All through the organs is a fine network of these tissues, furnishing a veritable skeleton for the microscopic elements of which the organs essentially consist. There are also substances which serve as stuffing and cushion-material for various parts. Organs of Relation. Of all the organs, those constituting the nervous system are the most exquisite in structure and the highest in function. They are the brain, the spinal cord, numerous small collections of nervous tissue called ganglia, and a great number of cords, the nerves, each of which has a connection at one end with some one of the nervous masses above mentioned. The nervous system gets its proper share of attention from the other organs which have been spoken of as engaged in carrying off waste, furnishing material for repair, moving parts or the whole of the body, and doing the passive service of framework. But it acts as if it recognized the great obligation resting on nobility, and it returns the devotion of its humbler neighbors by services of the most exalted order. It regulates and harmonizes the operations of all of the other parts, keeping them up to their work, restraining them if a tendency to overdoing appears, sustaining the equilibrium of all the functions. But, in33 METHODS OF STUD Y. addition to all this, it brings the individual into conscious relation with the world around him through the medium of the organs of special sense. Without this last service our lives would be purely vegetative. Organs of Reproduction. The functions of the organs thus far mentioned concern only the individual, providing, first, for his preservation, and, second, for his relation to the things around him. There are other organs—not, however, in a condition of functional activity during the whole of life—which are necessary to the preservation of the race. These are the organs of generation. One series of them is present in the female, and its chief members are the ovaries, which furnish eggs ; the Fallopian tubes, by which the eggs are conducted to the womb (uterus); the womb itself, in which the eggs, if fertilized, may remain during the period of pregnancy ; the vagina, which receives the penis of the male in co])ulation and gives passage to the young when the time for its bii'th has arrived ; and the maniina:, from which the progeny obtain sustenance for a considerable period. The other set of organs belongs to the male, and its principal parts are the testicles, which furnish the essential part of the semen for the impregnation of the eggs ; certain tubes by which the semen flows to the urethra, the conduit common to the urine and the generative fluid ; and, finally, the 'penis, the member by Avhich sexual connection is eifected and the male product deposited in the female generative passages. THE ORDER OF TOPICS. The chapiters in this book are arranged substantially in the conventional order. First comes a brief presentation of the elementary tissues, followed immediately by a chapter on embryology. Then succeeds the descriptive anatomy, in wliich the organs are treated in systems, and after this the topographical, which deals with the relations of the different organs to each other. That the account of tlie histologic materials com])osing the various organs should precede the description of these structures, and that the mutual relations of the latter should not be presented until the organs themselves have been described, are so logically necessary as to require no explanation. But the suc- cession of topics in the systematic anatomy should be made to vaiy according to circumstances. If the learner is studying anatomy only, the arrangement set forth in the table of contents is useful. But if he is studying pliysiology at the same time, he would do well so to modify the order that he may obtain a knowledge of the structure of each organ just before its function is considered. As physiology is concerned largely with the contents of the cavities of the body, this plan will involve the study of the viscera, including the brain and cord, early in the course. Any hours which are fairly due to anatomy and ai'e not consumed in this prepa- ration for the profitable study of functions should be devoted to osteology, and after this has been mastered the topics would best be taken up in the order as stated—joints, muscles, fasciie, vessels, and nerves. METHODS OF STUDY. Any work which is done according to a prearranged system is more econom- ical of time and effort and more productive of desirable results than that which is done in an unmethodical way. It is particularly im]iortant for the student of anatomy to follow lines wisely laid down for liis guidance, because of the limited time at his dis])osal in wliich to acquire a masteiy of tlie multitude of facts need- ful for his subsequent progress. Some ^vords of counsel, therefore, are here offered as to the methods of study which experience has shown to be advantageous. 3INTR OD UCTOB V. 34 Merely reading the text-book is productive of but little good. Many a man who has done this faithfully is utterly unable to answer a question which would be likely to be included in the list prepared by any competent board of examiners. The facts are so numerous, and often so seemingly unrelated to each other, the names of objects are so unlike anything previously known, and the allusions are so frequent to matters wliich must remain unexplained until a later part of the course, that it is wellnigh impossible to bring away from a single reading, however careful, much more than a chaotic impression of the sulyects considered. Some students in their desperation resort to the plan of verbal memorizing—learning word for woi'd the descriptions in the book. It is hard to conceive of a method more wasteful of energy and less fruitful of results. One who has done this may be able to pass a brilliant oral or written examination, but he has not begun to be an anatomist; he is helpless in the presence of the dissected subject, and incapable of using what he has studied in any practical way. A student should not allow himself to adopt this method. He must learn the fects in such a way that a permanent image of every object is produced in his mind, and thus his knowledge will be available at the bedside. Of course it is necessary to acquire a nomenclature—to learn the names of the objects dealt with—for without these labels of things it is impracticable to receive information, to retain it easily, or to impart it after it has l)een gained. But this is a vastly difl'erent thing from committing to memory the precise phraseology in which any author, however learned and eloquent, has framed his presentation of the facts. The clearer and more forcible a statement in the book, the better is it for the student; but, the idea having been grasped, its clothing of words should be ignored. The student should be satisfied with nothing less than such a compre- hension of the fact that he can lucidly convey it in his own language to one who never heard of it before. It is generally very advantageous for the student to have before him the object while he is reading the description of it, for thus he is able to verify or correct the account Avhich is given, and to get more concrete and enduring ideas of the various qualities of the thing itself. When osteology is under considera- tion, it is not difficult to pursue tliis ideal course ; for even if the student cannot afford to buy a complete articulated skeleton, he can obtain by a small expendi- ture a sufficient number of separate bones to supply almost all of his needs. The little outlay required for this purpose will be more than justified by the returns, however impecunious he may be. Many of the organs cannot be j^reserved in such condition that they can be studied to advantage in any such way as can the bones ; Init as substitutes for them w^e have casts and models—the former representing exactly the external form, size, and color of the originals, the latter in many cases doing this and also showing some details of internal structure. Both casts and models may be more instructive to the beginner than the objects for which they stand, even supposing the latter to be entirely normal, inasmuch as the real specimens are generally so soft and flabby tliat they do not retain their shape as do their artificial rej^resen- tatives, which are made of rigid materials and possess the additional merit of c<iin])arative indestructiV)ility and can be used year after year without appreciable diminution of value. When minute parts are in question models are far prefer- able to the real objects, as they are of coUosal size. The pigmy organ tells its story in a tiny voice which we cannot understand unaided ; the giant model sliouts its message in tones which a whole roomful of people can hear. But even casts and models are usually not available except in medical schools, and we are conse(pientl\' driven to employ pictures, which, fortunately, are to be had in such abundance and of so admirable quality that we often hardly miss the the really ideal means of illustration. Every one learns more quickly from a good ])ictorial representation than from the best description, for the mind stores up the impressions of form and color which enter it by the cliannel of sight far more eagerly and tenaciously than it does those which reach it by way of spoken35 METHODS OF STUDY. words. Where the subject is very complex, a diagram is commonly more useful than the best pictorial representation, because it eliminates everything but the essence of the matter, and thus does not confuse the mind by too vast an array of facts. The student, however, should scrupulously avoid allowing himself to be content with a merely diagrammatic knowledge of any part of anatomy: he should use tlie schematic picture only as a prelude to the actual thing, as the ma]) which informs him where and how to find and learn about the unknown land and its contents. Although descriptions, diagrams, pictures, models, and casts have their dis- tinct value, each in its peculiar held, it must never be forgotten that after learn- ing all which they can teach it is of the greatest importance to have contact with the natural object. Dissection of the dead body supplements and rounds out the knowledge which has been previously gained, and its service is indispensable. It is not well to attempt dissection until one has learned by other means the prin- cipal facts about the part to be dissected, because without such antecedent knowledge material, which in most places is scarce and costly, will be wasted by unintelligent cutting. But after the student has qualified himself to appreciate the views which can be obtained only in the anatomical laboratory, he should embrace every opportunity to dissect, for thus only can he become a practical anatomist. When a human body cannot be procured for this work, the nianual dexterity which is so important an accomplishment for a surgeon may be culti- vated by the dissection of cats, dogs, and other animals, which are abundant and cheap; and this practice is a most desirable pre])aration for the study of human anatomy for other reasons than the mere skill in the use of some instruments which it bestows. Among the aids to the acquisition of anatomical knowledge, two which are but little appreciated deserve especial mention. The first of these is the recitation. In this exercise the student is obliged to describe the things which he has been studying. This is a severe but most wholesome test of his knowledge. By it his attention is attracted as in no other way to the defects of liis attainments. Some matters which he had flattered himself were perfectly understood are found to have been only partially learned, and in others he discovers that he has acquired mistaken notions. The ability to describe a thing clearly and fully to others is a convincing evidence of attain- ment, and the exercise of it is a capital method of fastening the truth in the mind. If possible, the student should associate with himself another of the same class, and no day should be allowed to pass without a serious, exacting quiz, the two alternating in the office of questioner. Valuable as are the quiz and recitation in correcting and iuc^reasing one's knowledge, they are almost equalled in these respects by drawing. Sight and touch give an excellent idea of the form of a bone, but the information gained by these means is greatly intensified by making a free-hand picture of it; and in the process one is almost sure to see features which were not previously appre- ciated, and to rectify some faulty opinions. The same is true of all other objects, and the student is earnestly advised to make a drawing of every one of his dis- sections. If the natural objects are not available, he should draw the casts and models which he has the privilege of studying, and, in default of better repre- sentations, even the pictures in his text-book. But the objection is at once raised that only a few peculiarly gifted persons are capable of drawing. It is not unconniion to hear men declare that they can- not learn to draw. This statement, however, is absurdly incorrect, for every such objector can already write, and writing is nothing but the drawing of certain arbitrary characters. One who makes a capital A can surely outline a tent; if he can make an S, he can draw a wriggling snake ; in forming an X he has pictured a St. Andrew's cross ; and thus every one who signs his name demon- strates his ability to draw. The talent is undoubtedly more marked in some persons than in others, but is possessed in some degree by all; and, however,INTR OD UVTOR Y. 36 slight it may be originally, it can be cultivated to such an extent as to be wonder- fully serviceable to the medical student. Although the few succeeding paragraphs are not specifically anatomical in their bearings, they have a pertinency in this place because every medical student at the beginning of his career should be given the advice which they cai'ry and which he is unlikely to find elsewhere. Among the articles of equipment which a medical student needs none is more important than a good medical dictionary. It is an indispensable. If he ignores its aid, he is doomed to stumble and blunder in every direction ; if he accepts the assistance which it will give for the asking, he can progress readily and vigorously in all the paths of medical study. A medical dictionary, in order to be thoroughly serviceable, ought to possess the following characteristics : The inclusion of substantially all of the words employed by the English-writing medical authors of the time ; the arrangement of these words in alphabetical order ; the various accredited spellings of the words ; the pronunciation of those words on whose orthoejiy one might go astray ; the etymon or original form of each, and the simplest translation of it; and a concise definition of the word in each signification in which it is employed. Several lexicons constructed on these lines are available, any one of which will do good service; but one which is less ample will not satisfy the reasonable requirements of the student. Although the so-called Roman pronunciation of Latin is generally taught in the schools and colleges of this country, the dictionaries, for sufficient reasons, use the English pronunciation of the Latin and Latinized words which form the principal part of the vocabulary of medicine; and this method is recommended to the student for his adoption. The student is earnestly advised to establish the habit of consulting his dic- tionary whenever he encounters a word whose meaning he does not know. He should fix the spelling in mind, learn the definition, observe and remember the derivation, and repeat the proper pronunciation luitil the tongue has fully mas- tered it. Finally, he will do well to ascertain the kinship of the word, if any exists, to other words already known, and to group these all together in his memory as relatives. By this method he will rapidly acquire a large vocabulary, the ability to employ words with strict regard to their meaning, to spell correctly, to jironounce elegantly, and, as an accompaniment and result of this training, he will be content with nothing less than precision of thought.37 ELEMENTARY TISSUES, AND THE STRUCTURE OF MEMBRANES AND GLANDS. By F. H. GERRISH. AFULL pi-esentation of microscopic anatomy would require a large volume. It is the main purpose of this chapter merely to give a brief description of the elementary tissues which enter into the formation of the body. Without a knoAvledge of "these primary textures much that must be said of the gross anatomy of different parts will be unintelligible ; indeed, it is impossible to understand any organ, either from the anatomical or physiological point of view, unless the mate- rials of which it is composed and the various physical properties of these sub- stances are known with perfect familiarity; for the tissues are to the organs as the letters of the alphabet are to written words. The minute structure of the viscera will be described in connection with the macroscopic features of each organ in turn. CELLS. The word " tissue" means, in ordinary parlance, a web-like structure or a woven fabric. Anatomically, it is applied to any organized substance in the body. Notice that in this definition the word "organized" is used, not "organic." The latter would, indeed, exclude the substances which are inorganic—that is, all of the ultimate elements, of which there are many in the body—leaving them to the consideration of the chemist; but it would include quite a number of sub- stances found in the body which, although organic, have no title to be called structures, and belong in the domain of the physiologist, who deals with the proximate jirinciples. Thus, albumin and fibrin are organic substances, but not organized; and, consequently, they are not tissues, for tissues are always organ- ized. Every tissue originally consists of microscopic particles, named " cells," which have been aptly called the simplest expression of tissue. Etymologically, the word '■' cell" is an unfortunate designation, based upon a mistaken belief as to the structure of the corpuscle. At first it was thought that cells were cysts, sacs, vesicles, with fluid contents. But it was long ago learned that they are usually solid bodies, and hence a word which implies the existence of a cavity, as does " cell" (Latin, cella, " a small, hollow cavity"), is a misnomer in the majority of cases. However, the substitutes proposed have not met with general favor, and " cell" has become so firmly fixed in our nomenclature that we shall not attempt to displace it; indeed, there is no call to do so, since no confusion need arise from its use in this arbitrary sense. Not only is it true that all of the tissues primarily are composed of cells, but, going back much farther than this, we recognize the origin of the entire body from a single cell, the ovum (egg). This enforces the saying, which has become almost an axiom, that every cell comes from a pre-existing cell.ELEMENTARY TISSUES. 38 Diagram of a cell. Of the numerous definitions of cells, that which seems most exact is the (/7^/- mate morphological elements of the tissues. It is not sufficient to say that they are the " ultimate elements " of the tissues, because that term refers to their chemical constituents : it is necessary that the definition should include a word which explaius that the elements referred to have a definite, distinguishable, and charac- teristic shape, and this re(iuircment is fulfilled by the word " niorpliological," the adjective from " morpludogy," the science of form. Thus is conveyed the idea that in histological analysis—which is to the microscopic structures what dissection is to the macroscopic—we do not go beyond the cell; that this is the last thing reached by the process ; and that in all of the textures it lias such dcfiniteness of form as to en- able us to differentiate one tissue from another. The typical cell (Fig. 7), capable of development and reproduction, is a round or ovoid mass of proto- plasm in which is a nucleus. Protoplasm, (from Greek words meaning " the first" and " the thing formed") is a substance whose proper- ties inidei'lie the vital functions, and therefore it has been called the physical basis of life. It is homoge- neous, soft, and jelly-like, and possesses contractility— the power of sliortening a diameter, of drawing one of its jiarts nearer to another. It usually looks granular, l)ut this appearance will be explained a little later. The nucleus is a roundish mass, generally central in location, and named from the Latin word which means " the kernel," because its situation is so suggestive of the meat of a nut. Sometimes the nucleus contains a small body (perhaps more than one) bearing to it a relation similar to that which the nucleus itself sustains to the cell; and this is called the nucleolus ("the little kernel"). The typical cell has no investing membrane. Tlie granular appearance of its protoplasm is due to a network (sponfiiopla!<m) which becomes visible with lenses of high power. In the meshes of this plexus is a nearly fluid, homogeneous material {hyaloplasm). The nucleus has a similar construction, but has addition- ally a limiting membrane. The nucleoli are connected with the reticulum (net- work) of the nucleus. One point on the nucleus is called its pole, and the exactly opposite point is its antipole. Tlie jn'otoplasm may become condensed at the surface, and this hardened peripheral part is called the cell-wall. A deposit of chemical substances in the wall frequently occurs, and contributes to its solidity. Cells may j)roduce material sujxn-ficially in large amounts without essential change of their own shape ; and thus are formed substances called intercellular ("between the cells"). Tissues consist of cells and intercellular substance. In shape cells differ widely : the various forms will be described in connection with the discussion of the respective textures. Some cells are less than 27roTr "'^'^ diameter, others more than -j-gfr' ^"'^ between these extremes are all possible gradations. As has been said, the pi'otoplasm of the cell possesses contractility, and this ]>roperty enables it to display movements which are known as amoeboid, because they are ob- served in a typical form in a unicellular, aquatic creature called amoeba. In its cell alters its form rapidly, assuming inde- the irregular contraction, first, of one portion part. By virtue of this quality the cell can move from place to place, one point becoming fastened, and the rest of the cell moving up to it and pushing out a process to a farther point in the same Fig. 8.—Amceboid movements. (Hiickel.) amoeboid movements (Fig. 8) the scribably fantastic outlines, due to of the mass, and then of another39 CELL KEPBODUCTION. direction. Thus is accounted for the migration of cells from blood-vessels, and their wandering from one point to another outside of the vessels. CELL REPRODUCTION. The formation of new cells is accomplished by division of old cells. The direct method, by which every element of a cell Avas equally divided by a trans- verse constriction, was formei'ly supposed to obtain generally, but is now known to be voiy rare. The indirect plan of division is almost, if not quite, universal. By this method the nucleus undergoes a series of complicated modifications, which, taken as a whole, are called kdryohinesis, a name derived from the Greek words for "nut" and "change," the signification of the compound being "the changes in the kernel" or nucleus. In studying the details it is well to bear in mind that in this process, which is the principal movement toward the creation of two cells out of one, there occurs such a division of the cell-protoplasm and of the nucleus that each of the new-born cells inherits a half of every portion of the parent-cell's estate. When division is about to take place the nucleus noticeably enlarges (Fig. 9). The nuclear membrane and the nucleoli disappear, and the secondary filaments of the reticulum are drawn into the primary threads, making them thicker and more conspicuous (Fig. 10). It is not positively determined whether these threads Fig. 9.—Nucleus enlarged. The Fig. 10.—Nucleoli and second- Fig. 11.—The spindle and V body of the cell is represented ary filaments have disappeared. loops, side view. (F. H. G.) merely in outline in this series of (F. H.G.) diagrams. (F. H. G.) all unite and make one, or are separate ; whichever is true, they form a peculiar and complicated tangle which is called the skein. The diagram does not attempt to display all of the tortuosities of the skein, as they are rather confusing. There now appears a skeleton spindle 11), formed of delicate filaments of the inter- stitial substance, placed with one extremity at the pole and the other at the anti- pole. At each end of the spindle fibrils of the protoplasmic network converge and produce the appearance of rays. At the next step (Fig. 12) a number of Fig. 12.—V loops, end view. (F. H. G.) Fig. 13.—Daughter loops, end view. (F. H. G.) V-shaped loops are observed in place of the skein, these resulting either from the breaking of the single thread, on the one theory, or, on the other, from the plainer manifestation of the always separate threads. These V-shapecl pieces are short and thick, and marshal themselves aroimd the equator of the spindle, with apices to the centre and limbs outward, producing a star-like appearan(je, which isELEMENTARY TISSUES. 40 sometimes called the wreath. Simultaneously with this movement the loops are split lengthwise (Fig. 13), so that each original (or mother) loop is made into a ])air of secondary (or daughter) loops—a most important part of the series of changes. Next, the twin sistei's in each V-sliaped loop turn away from each other, one moving her head toward the pole, the other toward the antipole, their limbs being interlocked (Fig. 14). Presently they separate entirely, and migrate to pole and antipole respectively, travelling along the lines of the spindle, which seem to serve as guides to their movements. Arrived at their destination, each Fig. 14.—Mifrration of daughter loops toward pole Fig. 15.—Arrival of daughter loops at pole and and antipole, side view. (F. H. G.) antipole. (F. H. G.) forms a star (Fig. 15). Now, as far as can be seen, there has been accomplished an equal partition of the original reticulum of the nucleus, and the mass divides into two masses which are henceforth distinct nuclei. In each of these two bod- ies there takes place a reversal of the steps with which the karyokinesis was inaugurated : the V-sIiaped loops of the stars elongate, their limbs stretch out to the opposite side of the nucleus (Fig. 10), and the skein-like appearance is observed. Then branches are put forth from the main or primary filaments, and Fig. 16.—Division of nucleus into two nuclei, and Fig. 17.—Reappearance of secondary filaments and elongation of V loops. (F. H. G.) nucleoli. Division of entire cell into two. (F. H. G.) form the secondary filaments necessary to complete a netwf)rk. Nucleoli come in sight, and a wall is formed around the nucleus (Fig. 17). Before these last stages are acconijilished the protoplasm of the cell shows a constriction which rapidly deepens, and continues to increase until the cell is bitten in two, each part being furnished with a perfect nucleus in which is no sign of a spindle. It is held by some authors that the wall of the nucleus is not complete, and that thus is pei*- mitted a mingling of the interstitial substance of the nucleus with the cell-proto- plasm. However this may be, nobody questions the intercommunication after the disappearance of the nuclear wall. Various modifications of karyokinesis are frequently observed, but the fore- going description comprises the main features in a typical and complete case.41 THE EPITHELIAL TISSUES. CLASSES OF TISSUES. I. Tissues furnishing- the free surfiees of the Ixxly : Epithelial Tissues. > II. Tissues passively supporting other parts : Sustentacular Tissues. III. Tissues performing a nutritive function : Liquid Tissues. IV. Tissues devoted to movement: Muscular Tissues. V. Tissues essential to sensation : Nervous Tissues. THE EPITHELIAL TISSUES. Tissues furnishing the Free Surfaces of the Body. There is a peculiar propriety in speaking of this class first, as it is composed -entirely of cells, and also because the male and female cells, by whose union every human being is created, are, to all intents and purposes, epithelial cells. On every surface which is free, as distinguished from attached, are found multitudes of cells, and with liardly an exception the surfaces are covered with them or, more properly speaking, completely composed of them. Thus, the top layer of the skin is made wholly of cells ; so also is the exposed surface of every cavity, tube, or passage which connects directly or indirectly with the skin ; as, for example, the alimentary canal from mouth to anus, all of the air-passages, the urinary organs, the generative ways ; the surface of cavities which are entirely closed, which cannot be reached without dissection, such as the pleura, the heart, the blood-vessels ; and others which need not now be enumerated. These cells, thus spread out in close contact with each other, are epithelial cells, and the sheet of tissue which they form is an epithelium. Etymology does not suggest the character of the tissue, the extent of its distribution, its uses, or any other valuable fact about it, the word being derived from the Greek words signifying " upon the nipple." It is best, therefore, to employ it in a perfectly arbitrary way. Many groups of these cells—indeed, all of those which limit the surfaces of shut sacs, shut tubes, and other cavities which are not directly or indirectly continuous with the skin—are called endothelial, and the sheet of tissue which is formed by them is named an emlothelium, the derivation giving it the meaning of "within the nipple"—a term which has not even the minute justi- fication to be accorded to " epithelium ;" for there is epithelium upon the nipple, but there is no endothelium within it, except as there is in every part which con- tains blood- and lymph-vessels. As Macalister most pertinently says, " The dis- tinction between endothelium and epithelium is not always either histologically certain or functionally possible, nor can its development be relied on as a crite- rion." It would be well if the attempt to keep up the distinction were abandoned; but, as some writers still employ the term endothelium, it is well to understand that they refer to a cellular tissue which develops from what will presently be described as connective tissue. In this book all such will be included under the head of epithelium. Originally all epithelial cells are nucleated : in most of them the nucleus can be demonstrated at any stage of their existence ; but in some it becomes oblit- erated, usually as the result of jiressure or exposure to tlie drying elfects of the air. The cells almost literally constitute the entire tissue, the intercellular substance being reduced to its lowest terms, and consisting of a minute quantity of a semi- fluid, adhesive material called the interstitial cement-substance, which glues the cells together. Usually an epithelium rests upon a transparent, structureless sheet of extreme thinness, rather difficult of demonstration, the )iicmbrana propria or basement mem- brane. Though called structureless, it is shown to be made up of flattened plates •of typical connective tissue, which will be treated of a little later. An epithelium contains no blood-vessels and a very, diminutive supply ofELEMENTAB Y TISSUES. 42 nerves. When destroyed or in any way lost the cells are regenerated, as a rule, with rapidity. Epithelium performs many important services, among which may be men- tioned the protection which it furnishes to underlying tissues, the prevention of the escape of lymph from the parts which it covers, the absorption of nourishing materials into the blood, the maintenance of motion in the fluid which comes in contact with it, the smoothness which it imparts to surfaces, the formation of secretions, and assistance in the appreciation of certain sensory imjiressions. The materials composing epitliclial cells and tlie substance uniting them are sufficiently yielding to permit considerable alterations in their form without injury. Thus, when the structures upon which an epithelium rests enlarge or contract, it readily adapts itself to the changed conditions, without cracking in the oue case or wrinkling in the other. No classification of epithelial cells is very satisfactory, but the study of them is made somewhat easier by the knowledge that (excepting a few—the s]>heroidal— whose form presents but a slight departure from that of the typical cell) they may be placed in two classes, in one of which they are long and slender, and are arranged with their chief axis perpendicidar to the surface, and in the other of which they are broad and thin, with the long axis parallel with the surface upon which they rest. In the first class—the cells standing on end—are columnar (cylindrical), pris- moidal, conoidal (pyramidal), pyriform (pear- shaped), club-shaped, fusiform (spindle-shaped) cells. In the second class—the cells lying on side—are flattened (scaly or squamous) cells (Fig. 18). It will be observed that this classification is based upon form only, and that the differ- ence between on.e and another is accounted for by the direction in which pressure is applied. For example, suppose that a large number of soft, globular cells are placed upon an even plane, side by side, eacli just touching every Fig. 18—Flattened epithelial cells. (Daiton.) immediate neighbor, and imagine that an equal number of exactly similar cells are introduced Of course something must give way, or the prf)posed problem has no solution ; and what actually yields is the shape of each of the plastic cells. The cell cannot go downward, for the surface upon which it rests prevents tliis ; sidewise j^ressure of every adjacent cell deprives it of a con- siderable part of its former standing-room ; and, as its bulk remains unaltered, it is obliged to move a part of its mass upward, and its free surface, I'educcd by the lateral squeezing, is thrust two or three times as far from its attached surfiice as it was originally. The cell has become elongated, changed from a sphere to a cylinder or column, by pressure applied in a number of lateral and parallel direc- tions. If the surface upon Avhich the cells originally rested was convex in every direction, instead of flat, the cells would be changed from spheres to cones or pyramids by pressure made laterally on each at many points, and jirogressively increasing in force from the part nearest the surface downward. The difference in results depends upon tlie variation of the supporting surface. If the cells are pressed between two ]>arallel planes, one of which is the surface upon which they rest, the result is a flattened cell. It is easy to imagine how the other and less common shapes have been evolved. Flattened epithelium is often called tessellated, or pavement, because, when one looks directly down upon it, it presents the appearance of a flagging of stones. The names, however, are objectionable, not only because they are super- fluous, but more because they are equally applicable to the c(jlumnar variety when it is viewed in the same way ; for the flat, free ends of the latter look just additionally upon the same area.THE EPITHELIAL TISSUES. 43 cells. (F. H. G.) V, Fig. 19.—End view of a number of epi- thelial cells, presenting tlie appearance of a pavement. (Retzius.) Fig. 20.—Side view of some of the cells of "Fig. 19, sliowing that they are long and slen- der. (Retzius.) are cha- as much like a pavement—indeed, are even more suggestive of one than are the others (Figs. 19, 20). While these classes include nearly all epithelial cells, many cells have pecu- liarities which are dis- tinguishing, and it is convenient to designate them by descriptive names, such as ciliated and pricJde, from their appendages; sensory or neuro-, from their rela- tion to the periphery of a special-sense organ ; pigmented, from their coloration ; goblet or chalice, from their mod- ification of .shape ; tran- sitional, from their being of a rapidly varying form; glandular, from their work in secretion. A brief mention of the chief points of each variety is desirable. Ciliated cells (Fig. 21) in man are always of the columnar form, and racterized by the projection from their free extremity of a number of delicate processes strongly suggestive of eyelashes, and hence called cilia. The cilia have a constant vibrating motion, with a strong stroke in one direction and a weak one in the other. They are sit- uated in various parts, but never where they are likely to be subjected to hard usage. Thus, they are nowhere in the alimentary tract, where the masses of food and excrement would injure them ; but they exist almost everywhere in the breathing passages, which transmit nothing hurtful to them. Their more powerful stroke is always made in the same direction ; thus, in the res- piratory tract it is invariably such that the mucus which smears the surface is moved toward the open end of the system—that is, from the deep parts of the lung to the surface of the body. Cilia are found in the adult mainly in the organs of breathing and those of generation. Prickle-cells (Fig. 22) exist in the middle layers of the stratified epithelium of the epidermis, the outer layer of the skin. They are poly- hedral, and the little spaces between them are bridged over with delicate threads, which break when the cells are separated and present the appearance of short, rigid spines. Sensory epithelium, or neuro-epithelium cells (Figs. 23, 24), are found in close relation with the filamentous terminals of the nerves devoted to ta.ste, smell, hearing, and sight; from which fact the names sensory and neuro- (" nerve ") are derived. Such a cell is intimately associated at its attached end with the periph- ery of a sensitive nerve, and at its free extremity is quite gen- erally pi'olonged into a stiff, hair-like process, which may project beyond the plane of the surrounding surface. These distal bristles receive a shock from a wave of the fluid into which they ])rotrude, and this causes a thrill to pass through the cell and to agitate the nerve-filament, which carries the imjiression to the nerve-centre. Pigmented cells are found in various situations. They are of different shapes, generally very irregular, and have been invaded by (perhaps filled with) black particles. In the colored races the lower layers of the epithelium of the skin are highly charged with them. Fig. 21.—Two conoidal epi- thelial cells, their free ends fur- nished with cilia. (F. H. G.) Fig. 22.—Priclcle-ELEMENTARY TISSUES. 44 Goblet or chalice cells (Fig. 25) are a mo(Hfication of the cylindrical or conoidal, and their names are explanatory of their form. The nncleus retreats to the attached end of the cell, and the rest of the cell becomes filled with a granular material. The granules swell, causing the part in which they are contained to bulge out at the sides and crowd oyer into the territory of the adjacent cells ; and, finally, the internal pressure becomes so great that the cell bursts at its free end, its contents escaping upon the surface as a glairy substance called mucus. A goblet-cell, therefore, is a one- celled gland, doing real secreting work. In the true mucous glands the secreting cells are of this vari- ety. A goblet-cell may soon return Fig. 23.—Neuro-epithelial cells. Three cells project be- yond the general surface, and are supported by iuterme- diate cells. (Frey.) Fig. 24. — Neuro - epithelial cells. Two send long processes beyond the general surface. (Schultze.) Fig. 2.5.—Goblet-cell, surrounded by cyl- indrical cells. (F. II. G.) to the condition of an ordinary cylindrical or conoidal cell or remain a chalice for a long time. Transitional epithelium (Fig. 26) partakes of the features of a number of other groups. Its typical illustration occurs in the bladder, where the superficial layer is composed of thick, flattened cells, Avith dimples on their under surface into which the large ends of pear-shaped cells of the next layer are received, the spaces between the last being filled with the inverted cones of the lowest set. Fig. 26.— Transitional epithelium (F. H. G.) J > if- No two layers are alike, and a lower is in a state of transi- tion to a higher plane. Glandular epithelium (Fig. 27) is composed of cells of dif- fering shapes—cuboidal, cyl- indrical, conoidal, polyhedral, and spheroidal, the last being rarely found except in the re- motest recesses of tubular and racemose glands. The various forms of these cells are accounted for by the dif- ferent shapes of the cavities to which each series is compelled to adapt itself. The function of glandular cells is secretion. When an epitlielium consists of only one stratum of cells it is called simple or single-Ioyered; when it has two or more layers it is known as stratified. If a ciliated epithelium is stratified, only the cells of the upper layer are furnished with cilia. Fiii. 27.—Glandular epithelium as seen in a salivary gland. At lower riRht-haud corner is a duct lined with conoidal epithelial cells. (KoUiker.) the!THE SUSTENTACULAB TISSUES. 45 THE SUSTENTACULAR TISSUES. Tissues Passively Supporting Othee Parts. 1. Mostly fibrouH. («) White Fibrous Tissue (Connective Tissue Proper). {h) Yellow Fibrous Tissue (Elastic Tissue). (c) Areolar Tissue. (d) Adipose Tissue, (g) Gelatinous Tissue. (/) Adenoid Reticular Tissue. {g) Neuroglia. 2. Cartikiginom. (a) True Cartilage. {b) White Fibro-cartilage. (c) Yellow Fibro-cartilage. 3. Osseous. 4. Dentinal. The members of this large group present many violent contrasts in their physical qualities : we find the soft and the hard, the transparent and the opaque, the flexible and the rigid, the nearly liquid and the almost stonily solid, the fibrous and the granular, the moist and the dry, the colorless, the white, the yel- low, the pearly, and the pink. And yet, in spite of these antipodal traits, the individuals making up this class have certain common characteristics which dis- tinguish it from all others. One which strikes the attention most forcibly is the absolute passivity of every member of it: not one of them does anything actively; they stand still like stocks and stones, and are acted upon by the other tissues; they originate no action. But the service which they perform, though humble, is of essential imjjortance, and is measurably presented to the mind by any one of the various names borne by the group. " Sustentacular" suits our purpose excellently, suggesting mechanical support, the upholding that requires strength and endurance. " Connective substance " is good, as refei-ring to a very prominent function—the uniting of neighboring parts. " Connective tissue," oiF course, inherently carries an equal significance, but the term has been so much used to designate a leading member of the group, that it is not always certain to convey one's intent to include all of them. " Skeletal" is highly descriptive to one who has divested his mind of the popular notion that nothing but bony structures are entitled to be considered a skeleton. Probably the best term of all in our language is " framework," because everybody knows that a framework may be made of any materials which have suitable physical qualities, and under- stands that it does the work of supporting mechanically, of connecting near and distant parts of the whole, and of keeping these same parts away from each other—the last being an office quite as important as the more prominently men- tioned connective work. As, however, the term is so little used in a titular way by anatomists, another has been selected to distinguish the group. The word " framework," like " skeletal," to an anatomist suggests far more than the massive, bony staging, which is the gross basis of the human form. To him it means the delicate, and even microscopic, rafters, beams, and shelves, which serve to give definite shape to minute organs and to small parts of large structures, and to keep their active portions from pressing upon and being pressed upon by each other. So, too, in his mind, "connective" has both macroscopic and micro- scopic applications. It is a name given to the tissue of which are made the bands which tie the bones together, and the strong, flexible sinews which unite contractile organs to the parts which they move ; and it is equally deserved by minute parts which, on a small scale, do work of a comparable kind.ELEMENTARY TISSUES. 46 These tissues are very widely distributed in the l)ody—so extensively, indeed, that their diffusion may almost be declared to be universal. If every particle of material except the susteutacular tissues were to be withdrawn from the body of a person with whom we were well acquainted, there would be no diificulty in recognizing him, even in minute details of form. It is interesting to observe not only that the susteutacular tissues are similar in a functional way, but that they are structurally allied. They originate in the same elements of the embryo, to a certain extent they are interchangeable, and they often shade into each other. They consist of cells and intercellular sul)stance, though in most of them, when mature, the cellular elements are inconspicuous, and the material between the cells is so largely developed as to constitute almost the entire bulk of the tissue. White Fibrous Tissue. The name of this tissue is highly descriptive, for it is distinctly white when seen in a mass, and its fibrous character is manifest. It is often called "con- nective tissue 2>ro]>er," or even merely " connective tissue," because of its great abundance, both absolute and comparative, and its very Avide distribution ; but, while its conspicuousness among the sustentacular tissues entitles it to the name which implies the fact, the designation is confusing, and would better be dropped in favor of the descriptive appellation which is here chosen. Teased out with needles and viewed with the microscope, it is seen to consist almost Avholly of extremely fine, colorless fibrils, arranged side by side in bundles which have an undulating outline (Fig. 28). The fibrils may be very long—some inches—and do not branch. Closely applied to the bundles of fibrils are cells ; but these are not a prominent feature in the adult tissue, and are liable to escape atten- tion unless staining agents are used. The cells jiroper to the tissue are flattened, irregular, nucleated, gran- ular, and have long pro- cesses (Fig. 29). White fibrous tissue is distinguished chiefly for its great strength and flexibility, and is found Avhere these qualities by themselves are needed. For example, it is almost the only tissue in most of the bands (ligaments) \vhic]i fiisten the bones together, and in the cords (tendons) by which the force of muscular tissue is transmitted to and applied at distant points. In these situations great strength is required, for without it the bones Avoukl readily become dislo- cated and the muscular contractions would be fruitless of result; flexibility is demanded, since rigid ligaments and tendons would either jirevent movement or break, and thus prove useless. If, in addition to sti-ength and flexil)ility, elas- ticity were added, the bones would get out of place during many movements, and muscular contraction, instead of moving the object to which the distal end of the tendon Avas attached, Avould be devoted in large part to the stretching of the tendon itself. These illustrations Avill sIioav that this tissue is Avell fitted by its physical qualities to make up the ropes, cords, protective sheets, and outer shells of org-ans. Fig. 28.—White fibrous tissue (F. H. G.) Fig. 29.—Cells of white fibrous tissue, often called couiiective-tis- sue cells. (F. H. G.)YULLOW FIBROUS AND AREOLAR TISSUES. 47 Yellow Fibrous Tissue. This texture is composed mainly of fibres, and in large masses presents a delicate yellow hue, from which facts it is named. Under the microscope its fibres are seen to differ materially from those of white fibrous tissue : they are ribbon-like, thick, branched, and curled at the ends into hooks, which result from their fracture in the preparatory teasing (Fig. 30). The chief physical properties of this tissue are strength, flexibility, and elasticity, the last being that which dis- tinguishes it from all others, and gives it the name by which it is often known, " elastic tissue." Elasticity, the quality which restores bodies possessing it to their normal shape after distortion, is not to be confounded with contractility, the attribute which enables a body to shorten a diameter (for example, to draw its two ends nearer to each other) under the influence of a stimulus. Elasticity is a merely passive property : it cannot display itself until some outside force has stretched or otherwise deformed the substance in which it resides ; but contractility is active, and is manifested under influences which have no such ett'ect upon elastic bodies. The elasticity of yellow fibrous tissue, while disqualifying it for the work of tendons, eminently fits it for other duties, and it is found performing valuable service in many places. Wherever it is located, it does precisely such work as india-rubber would do, if simi- larly arranged. It is commonly associated with white fibrous tissue, though in relatively small quantities. The amount of it in the system is not large as compared with that of white fibrous tissue. The cleai'est masses of it are the ligamenta subflava between the laminse of the vertebrse. Its strength is not equal to that of the white fibrous. Fig. 30.—Yellow fibrous tis- (Queckett.) Areolar Tissue. Areola is the Latin word for " a little space," and areolar tissue gets its name from its appearance of being full of minute spaces. It is sometimes called " cellu- lar tissue "—a term which has no justification to the histologist, to whom the word "cell" has come to have an arbitrary meaning, entirely independent of its etymol- ogy. The designation " cellular tissue " is applicable properly only to a texture made up substantially of the histological elements called cells—such a tissue, for instance, as epithelium. In areolar tissue we discover no material different from those which we have already studied—only a new arrangement of some of them. It is composed of a mixture of white and yellow fibrous tissues, so disposed in irregularly criss-crossed bundles as to make a network, the meshes of which bound innumerable areolae (Fig. 31). The bulk of each bundle is white fibrous tissue, and around it are loosely twined threads of yellow fibrous tissue. The little spaces between the meshes are not definitely walled, but are indescribably irregular cavities, which communicate in the freest way with each other (Fig. 32). The fasciculi are moist- ened by a lymph-like fluid, which contributes to their flexibility and diminishes the friction between them. Areolar tissue is found almost everywhere subjacent to the skin and mucous and serous membranes, between muscles, blood-vessels, nerves, and other parts. It forms a layer which is attached on one side to the deeper structure, on the other side to the more superficial. When one of these structures moves, the areolar tissue permits it to slide upon the other for a little distance, the wavy bundles of white fibrous tissue being straightened out, and the narrow ribbons of yellow fibrous being put on the stretch. The motion ceasing and the disturbingELE3IENTABY TISSUES. 48 agency being removed, the white fasciculi back into th strained yellow fibres assert their elasticity, pull the eir undulations, and assist a little in the restoration of the parts between which it lies to their former attitude of rejiose. The tissue is connective in a typical sense. Disease and accident afford strik- ing illustrations of the freedom of intercommunication of the areolae. Fig. 31.—Areolar tissue, composed tissue and branched strands of yellow twined. of bundles of white fibrous fibrous tissue loosely inter- FiG. 32.—A portion of areolar tissue in- flated and dried, showing areolee. and also of the vast extent of this structure just beneath the skin—here called the subcutaneous areolar tissue. The lymph-like fluid mentioned above is sometimes formed more rapidly than is normal, or, what amounts to the same thing in effect, its absorption is less rapid than its formation, and the excess accumulates in the areolte. But, as each of these spaces opens into all of its neighbors, the fluid gravitates from one to another into those which are most dependent, and these it distends projiortionately to its amount. In such a case, when the feet have been upon the floor all day, by evening they are swollen ; but, after the patient has passed a night in bed in the horizontal position, the enlargement disapi)ears almost entirely, because the fluid has gravitated back again and has be- come widely diftused. Sometimes, as in fracture of a rib, a sharj) fragment of bone pei'forates the chest-wall and slightly punctures the lung, leaving an o]ien tract between some of the air-vesicles of the latter organ and the areolar tissue near the surface of the body. Every time that air is drawn into the lung, some of it escapes through the acci- dental opening into the subcutaneous areolar tissue, the spaces of which become inflated, at fii'st only in the region of the injury, but at each breath more and more extensively, until finally all of the areolte under the skin are so ballooned that the victim presents such an a])pearance as is shown in Fig. 33. The areolar tissue around certain organs, as vessels, becomes somewhat con- densed and forms a distinct sheath. The nourishing vessels of a part are situated in its areolar tissue. In the narrow spaces between the lobules of a solid organ, as the liver; forming a layer outside of the mucous coat of hollow organs, as the Fig. 33.—Inflation of subcutaneous areolar tissue, due to introduction of air through a wound in the chest-wall and lung. (Gross.)49 ADIPOSE TISSUE. stomach; everywhere among bundles of fibres, as in muscle,—in all such situa- tions is areolar tissue, furnishing a springy bed for the blood-vessels. Indeed, it may be laid down as a rule that vessels are developed in this sort of tissue, and always continue to occupy it. Adipose Tissue. Areolar tissue has been described as composed of white and yellow fibrous tissues, disposed in such a way as to leave irregular spaces between their bundles. Some of the cells of the white fibrous tissue of this combination in certain cir- cumstances undergo peculiar changes. The outer layer hardens, forming a deli- cate cell-wall ; the most of the substance of the cell is converted into liquid oil; and the nucleus, ])reviously central, is crowded off to one side, thus becoming peripheral, and is flistencd to the cell-wall. Thus is formed a fat-cell (Fig. 34)— a veritable sac of liquid oil, deserving the name " cell " in the etymological as well as in the his- . tological sense. Such cells are lodged in the jr*'®L.^S.^-^^~x Fig. 34.—Fat-cells : a, filled with oil; h, exhausted of Fig. 35.—Fat-cells packed closely together, oil, the cell-wall shrivelled. (Kolliker.) and thus becoming polyhedral. spaces of areolar tissue very generally ; but in a few localities they are never seen—the penis, the eyelids, the cavity of the cranium, and the lungs (excepting a little near the roots). When the number of fat-cells is suilicient to fill the areolae even moderately, the fmue is called adipose or fatty. The cells are round or ovoid, except when they are closely ])acked, and then the mutual pressure pro- duces angular facets all over them (Fig. .'>5). Fatty tissue is yellow, soft, and resilient when living, but hard when dead. Its quantity is very variable, and there is no absolute criterion of the normal quantity. But when its shifting line of healthful development is overstepped, obesity or corpulence is reached—a patho- logical condition which may interfere with the proper performance of vital functions. Sometimes the fat in the abdominal wall attains a thickness of six inches. The uses of adipose tissue are various. It is a cushion for organs—the kid- neys always lie in a bed of fat, and other organs are similarly provided, though less lavishly. Being a slow transmitter of heat, it is a protection against cold— it is always found in the great serous apron which hangs down in fi'ont of the bowels, and doul)tless serves to keep them warm. Adipose tissue is a reservoir of nutrient material which is drawn upon in starvation. If an animal is deprived of suitable food, his system relies largely upon its store of fat in the emergency. If a wolf and a sheep are starving, each feeds upon its own fat, the herbivorous animal becoming for the time practically a carnivorous one, since it lives on fat mutton. A man wasting with fever lives on his own tissues—cannibalistically consumes human flesh. The adipose, being a cheap tissue, is used most freely ; nervous tissue, the most costly, suffers the least loss of weight. During the process of starvation the oil is abstracted from the cells, and the walls become wrinkled and collapsed. The nucleus, however, keeps alive ; and, when nourish- ment is again appropriated by the system, the nucleus becomes active, takes from the blood the materials suitable for the manufacture of oil, combines them prop- erly, and deposits the product in the cell-cavity, which soon becomes plump again. Finally, it is not unworthy to mention the jesthetic effect of a reasonable amount of adipose, which softens the asperities of sharj) angles, and contributes to the pro- duction of the graceful contours, which are so essential to perfect beauty of form. 450 ELEMENT A B Y TISS UES. Gelatinous Tissue. This tissue is jelly-like, as its name implies. It is also called mucous tissue and mucoid tissue. No ty2:>ical example of it occurs in the adult body ; but the gelatin of Wharton in tlie umbilical cord illustrates it perfectly. Here is seen a protojilasmic network, formed by the union of the processes of cells, which are identical with those of white fibrous tissue. In the meshes of this reticulum is a semifluid ground substance. This tissue is the most immature form of fibrous tissue. The vitreous body (or humor) of the eye is composed of gelatinous tissue ; but the fibrous element is so slightly developed that its existence is by some observers denied, and almost all of the cells have disappeared, the few which remain being shrunken and indistinct. The vitreous is in large part (about 99 per cent.) water, and its appearance is that of a mass of beautifully transparent, colorless, and delicate jelly. The service performed by the vitreous is strictly sustentacular. It is the stuffing which keeps the ball of the eye in its globular shape, preventing the wrinkling of the retina, wdiich would be utterly destructive of definiteness of sight. When lost, the vitreous is not restored, having a low vitality and prac- tically no recuperative power. Adenoid Reticular Tissue. The word reticulum is the diminutive of the Latin rete, "a net," and conse- quently means "a little net." "Adenoid" comes from the Greek word for "gland," and signifies "gland-like." Adenoid reticular tissue, therefore, means the tissue forming the network in gland-like structures, ])articular reference being had to the framework of the so-called lymphatic glands, which are far l)etter named " nodes," since they are not real glands. This network has points of resemblance to areolar tis- sue—may, indeed, be regaixled as a modification of it. The reticulum consists of strands of white fibrous tissue, with few, if any, yellow fibres intermingled, and these delicate trabecula) ("little beams"), which support the proper substance of the node, are nearly or quite covered by fibrous-tissue cells in the shape of broad, thin plates Fig. 36.-Adenoid retic- closclv applied and wraiiped around them (Fig. 36). ular tissue. (F. H. G.) • i } J 1 . . ,. , }, ,S . ' 1 hough the most characteristic display ot this tissue is in the lymphatic nodes, it is widely distributed in the body, and is particularly abundant in mucous membranes. Neuroglia. Literally, the word neuroglia means " nerve-glue," and is misleading, for it is used as the name of a network supporting the nerve-substance of the brain i 7] Fig. 37.—Neuroglia cells. (F. H. G.) and spinal cord. This reticulum is not made of white fibrous tissue, as is thatCA R TIL A GIKO US TISS UES. 51 of adenoid tissue, but is composed of peculiar bodies, called glia-eells, and their processes. The cells (Fig. 37) are irregular and stellate, and their branches are frayed out at the end in tufts of minute fibrils, which ramify everywhere between the nerve-cells and fibres. Besides the neuroglia, there are two other means of mechanical support for the tissues of the great nervous centres. From the attached portion of the epi- thelial cells Avhich line the cavities of the brain and spinal cord delicate fibrils run perij)herally and end in the pia, the fibrous and vascular covering of these masses. Finally, the })ia itself sends prolongations inward, which are of manifest sustentacular value. Cartilaginous Tissues. Cartilage, popularly called "gristle," is a dense tissue, but much less hard than bone, elastic, and serving important skeletal uses. It occurs in three varieties : True or Hyaline Cartilage. White Fil)ro-cartilage. Yellow Fibro-cartilage. Hyaline cartilage is so named from the Greek word for " glass," because of the transparency of a thin slice of it. It is also called true cartilage, because it is the only variety which presents pure and unmixed the features which charac- terize this tissue. It encrusts the parts of bones which enter into the composition of movable joints, in such situations, being called articular cartilage ; it forms the extensions of the ribs to or toward the breast-bone ; it constitutes the bulk of the larynx ; it stiffens the windpipe and bronchial tubes with strips and plates ; it is the framework of the front of the nose, and does similar service in one or two other places. Hyaline cartilage is opaque, bluish-white, firm, elas- tic, and readily and smoothly cut ^ ^ with a knife. Covering it closely is c a coat, called perkJinndrinm ("around the cartilage"), which has an outer fibrous and an inner cellular layer, and is the agent by which the pro- tection and growth of the cartilage are effected. Under the microscope cartilage is seen to consist of small clusters of roundish, nucleated cells Fk;. ler ceils. ?8.—Cartilage-cells (Testut.) A, mother cell; B, C, daugh- (Fig. 38), each group crowded into a little cavity {lacuna, " a little lake "), between which and its neighbors is an exjianse of apparently homogeneous intei-cellular substance {^inatrLr). The cells are modified fibrous-tissue cells (the so-called connective-tissue cells), and the matrix is really composed of extremely delicate fibril- he, the mass of which is pervaded by minute lymph-channels. Cartilage is non-vascular, and the nourishing material for the parts far- thest from the surfiice ])ermeates the tissue through these lyniph-patlis. White fibro-cartilage is otherwise known as fibrous cartilage and fibro-cartilage. It makes the great disks between the bodies of the vertebrtB, the plates at the movable symphyses, the masses between the bones in the freely-movable joints, and the nodules which strengthen tendons in exposed situa- tions. It has no proper perichondrium, and, indeed, is more like tendon than it is like true cartilage. Microscopically (Fig. 39), it is seen to consist of a dense o'J.—White tibro-cartilai52 ELEMENTARY TISSUES. felting of white fibrous tissue, inibeikled in whieh are nests of cartilage-cells, as if the seeds of cartilage and those of connective tissue proper were sown together in the same field and developed in an intimate mixture. The physical proper- ties of the tissue are such as would be expected from such an association of ingredients—elasticity from one element, flexibility and toughness from the other. Yellow fibro-cartilage is called also clastic cadUagc and reticular ("network") cartihic/c, for structural reasons which will presently be manifest. Its principal examples are the framework of the auricle and that of the epiglottis in the larynx. It is opaque and yellowish, and more elastic, flexible, and tough than hyaline cartilage. Viewed with the microscope, it is seen to consist of a close network of yellow fibrous tissue, containing scattered groups of true cartilage-cells (Fig. 40)—a composition which readily explains its physical qualities. As both the second and third varieties of cartilage have a fibrous tissue mingled with the true cartilage, FiG. 40.—Yellow fibro-cartilage. (Kolliker ) the names " fibro-cartilage " and " fibrous cartilage " tlo not dilferentiate one from the other. As all carti- lage is elastic, the name " elastic cartilage" is not clearly helpful in the designation of that containing yellow fibrous tissue; and " reticular" is no better as a title for the third variety than is " fibrous " for the second, since in each its fibrous tissue is arranged as a network. The names which ai"e given above are pre- ferred because they actually convey a correct idea of the structure of each form respectively. Osseous Tissue. The word " osseous " is derived from the Latin os, meaning " a bone." Osseous tissue, therefore, is bony tissue, and it is the characteristic material in the bones. A bone is one of the numerous hard organs, which, taken together, make up the skeleton. One of the long bones of the limbs will show typically all of the features which we need for the study of osseous histology. A long bone has a central cylindrical portion, the shaft, and an expanded portion at each end. The parts of the extremities of the bone which present surfaces in movable joints are crusted over with a layer of cartilage, and the rest of the bone is covered with a fibrous and vascular membrane, called the perios- teum, meaning the structure " around the bone." The fibrous part of the perios- teum makes it protective ; the vascular serves for the nourishment of the bone. If the bone is divided into halves by a vertical cut, its shaft is found to be hollow (Fig. 41). The open space is called the marroiv-cavity, and is lined by a fine, Fig. 41.—Vertical section of a long bone. (Testut.)OSSEOUS TISSUE. 53 fibrous layer, the endosteum, meaning the structure " within the bone." Tlie material in the outer parts of the bone is very dense, and is, consequently, known as compact osseous tissue. It is veiy thick in the shaft, but shades off toward the expanded extremities, and in them is merely a thin shell. The residue of the bone has the appearance of a network, with the finest meshes nearest the outer surface, the coarsest next to the marrow-cavity. It is called spongif osseous tissue, on account of its porous character, and cancellous, from its being a latticework. But compact and spongy are terms which have ref- erence only to gross appearances, which are caused by the arrangement of the material: the structure is essentially the same everywhere. The marrow- cavity is occujiied by the marrow or 'medulla, a very vascular material, contain- ing many peculiar bodies {marrow-cells^, Avhich are largely changed into oil as adult life is approached, the color of the marrow being, therefore, altered from red to yellow. Osseous tissue is one of the hardest materials in the body, being surpassed in density by two tissues only—dentine and enamel—both of which exist in tlie teeth. It is very tough and elastic, as well as hai'd, and will resist great strain without breaking. It is composed of two kinds of substance, earthy and animal, so intimately commingled that, if either is removed, the other maintains the form of bone even in its minute details. Tlie earthy matter, which is mostly salts of lime and makes up two-thirds of the weight of the bone, can be removed by the action of a dilute acid. The bone is thus decalcified, and consists of a brownish, tough, flexible, and elastic material, so free from stiffness that the bone, if a very long one, may be tied into a knot (Fig. 42). The animal matter can be driven off by heat. When this has been done, the bone is white, rigid, and brittle to the last degree : it can be crushed into fragments between the thumb and finger. In the fresh condition the color of bone is delicate pink in the compact portion, deep red in the cancel- lated. If the shaft of a long bone is sawed in two transversely, and a very thin slice is removed from the cut surface and examined with the microscope, it will be seen that there are numerous nearly cir- cular or oval perforations, around each of which is a series of con- centric rings, which represent long, hollow cylinders fitted accurately one over another, so as to form a solid rod perforated from end to end (Fig. 43). Tliis constitutes a Haversian system, named from the celebrated anatomist. Havers. The concentric rings are la- melke or lamime (" layers"), and the hole in their midst is a Haversian canal. In the solid substance of the rod are numerous small exca- vations called lacunoe ("little lakes"), from which radiate in every direction fine channels, called canaliculi ("little canals"), which, by uniting with those from neighboring lacuufe, establish a free communication between the Haversian canal and the lacunae farthest away from it. The lacunas and canaliculi are lymph- paths, and are important agents in the nutrition of the bone. Tlie Haversian canal is occupied by blood-vessels, nerves, and lymphatic vessels, all imbedded in a mass of areolar tissue. The canals have a general longitudinal direction, but some run more obliquely and connect the more vertical. Immediately subjacent to the periosteum and parallel to it is a series of lamellae which form a continuous sheath for the more central parts, and are called circumferentied lamelke. A similar arrangement obtains at the inner free surface, several concentric lamellae encircling the medullary cavity, and standing in the relation to it that the Haversian lamellaB do to their central canal. Indeed, this inner circumferential series with its con- tained marrow has been called a mammoth Haversian system. In the spaces between the Haversian systems are sei'ies of layers arranged at irregular angles to each other. They are called intermediate lamelke, and, like the inner and outer -Human bone which has been deprived of its eartliy matter and tied in a Icnot. (Dalton.)54 ELEMENT A R Y TISSUES. circumferential, are of periosteal formation, the remnants of an i-arlier stage of groAvth than is shown in any Haversian system. The lacunas are occupied by nucleated corpuscles, called houc-ccl/s, fine pro- cesses of which extend into the canaliculi. Ijacunte and canaliculi are character- istic of osseous tissue, and are found in all true bone. But Haversian canals are not present in plates of bone which are so thin that sufheient nourishment is afforded by blood-vessels upon their opposite surfaces, as in manv lamelke of the cancellous tissue, and frequently in a part of the lachrymal bone. LAMELLAE LACUN>E CANALICUL HAVERSIAN CANAL Fig. 43.—Diagram of the structure of osseous tissue. A small part of a transverse section of the shaft of a Ions; bone is shown. At the uppermost part is the periostt->im coverinfc the outside of the bone; at the lower- most part is the endnstiniii liiiinu the m.-irrow-cavity. Between tliese is the eompaet tissue, consisting largely of a series of Hiivcrsinn s\>lrin^, r:i(Mi l.riiiucin-iilar in outline ami iierfoniteil Ijy a central cannl. In the first one is shown only tlir ■.tvi :i iH i ii|.ii d li\ :i snsIciii; in the second is seen tin' concentric arrangement of the lamella?: and in tiie oUn rs, i ('s|i( rti\ rly, ciiinlirnli; lacuna-; lacuiue and canalicvili; the contents of the canal, artery, vein, lyniphati<', and areolnr tissue ; hniu'll;r, lacun;c, and canaliculi ; and, finally, all of the structures composing a comidcli' system, lii lwci ii the systems are circnnil'creidiiil and intermediate lamelliE, only a few of which are rejiresented as loilging lacun.c, though it is to be understood tliat lacuna' are in all parts. The yjeriosteum is seen to be made up of a fibrous layer and a vascular layer, and to have upon its attached surface a .stratum of cells. From the fibrous layer project inward the rivet-lilie fibres of Sharpey. (F. H. G.) If a thin layer is peeled off of the surface of a decalcified bone, minute projections from its under surface may be seen. Tliese are inward prolongations of the ])eriosteum, and are known as the perforating fibreft of t^hai'pcji. They are not found in Haversian systems, but only in the circumferential and interme- diate lamellte, which, as has been already said, are developed from the periosteum. They seem to contribute to the strength of the portions of bone in whicli theyOSSEOUS TISSUES. 5r) exist by riveting them together ; and they certainly make the attachment of the pei'iosteiim tirmer by giving it a more than superficial hold. Tendons, when attached to bone, are ]irolonged into it as perforating fibres. A delicate, longitudinal sliver of bone is seen to have minute openings, which Fig. a.—a, transverse section of a long bone, natural size ; B, the dark part of A, magnified 20 diameters. Haversian systems of different sizes are seen, with canals, lamellEe, and lacunio. The enlargement is not suffi- cient to show canaliculi. At 6 is a portion of the cancellated tissue. (Peaslee.) represent the tracks of canaliculi; and, if the flake is superficial in origin, larger holes also appear wherein have lain the perforating fibres. Between the apertures is a very fine reticulum of fibrilhe, showing the essentially fibrous character of the tissue and its consequent homology with ordinary connective tissue. Marrow fills the cavity of the shaft of the bone and extends into the intei'spaces of the cancellous portion. Its elements are supported on an areolar network, and it is extremely vas- cular, especially in the sjjongy bone, where, on account of the great numl>er and size of the vessels, its color is red. In the shaft of an adult bone the marrow has been mostly changed into adipose tissue, and is yellow. In the mar- row are multitudes of cells, like those of fibrous tissue, and they are called marroiv-cells. There are also great, irregular masses, with many nu- clei—giant-ccUs. The marrow and the contents of the Haversian canals are practically identi- cal ; indeed, they are continuous one with the other, and the comparison of the marrow and its encircling lamellje with the Haversian canal and its surrounding lamellae is not fanciful. From what has been said, it will be under- stood that osseous tissue consists of cells, fibres, and an interstitial substance, which is saturated with lime salts ; and, consequently, that the feature in which Fig. 45.—Long;itudinal section of compact osseous tissue, greatly magnified. The Ha- versian canals are cut lengthwise. The dots in the canals are the openings of canaliculi. (Testut.) i56 ELEMENT A R Y TISS UES. it principally differs from wliite fibrous tissue is its impregnation with this earthy matter. It is important to remember that the integrity of the periosteum is essential to the proj)er nourishment of bone, and, if it becomes peeled off bv accident or by disease, it should be replaced speedily in order to prevent death of the j)art which it supplies with blood. Dentinal Tissue. Dentinal tissue gets its name from the fact that it makes up the bulk and determines the form of the teeth, the Latin for " tooth " being dms. A tooth has a crown, the part which projects from the gum ; a fang or root, the part buried in the jaw ; and a neck, the narrow and sometimes constricted part embraced by the edge of the gum. If a vertical section is made through the middle of a tooth (Fig. 46) which has a single root, there is brought to view a long central cavity, containing the Fig. 46.—Tooth iu vertical section. Fig. 47.—Dentinal tubules, in longitudinal section. The lower part of the cut shows the portion of dentine near the pulp-cavity. (Kolliker.) pulp, the latter being com])osed of vessels and nerves, supported on a staging of areolar tissue, and also a great number of cells of the connective-tissue class arranged at the periphery of the cavity. Around this pulp-cavity is the hard portion of the tooth, in which are three different tis- sues : a crust of epithelial tissue all over the crown, the enamel; a crust of osseous tissue all over the fang, the cementum; and the main mass of the structure, the dentine or ivory. ■ The dentine is white, very dense, closely allied to bone, than which it is a little harder. It is developed from closely-])acked white fibrous tissue, which becomes infil- trated with lime-salts. This compact mass is riddled with minute channels, dentmal tubules (Fig. 47), which radiate in wavy lines from the pulp-cavity in every direc- tion, except at the tip of the fang, where there is an opening through which pass Fig. 48.—Dentinal tubules in cross-section, showing their cavities, walls, and the intcr- tubular substance.57 THE LIQUID TISSUES. the vessels and nerves. The tubules branch as they pass toward the surface of the tooth, and the matrix is particularly dense just around them, thus forming a thick wall for each (Fig. 48). The peripheral pulp-cells, called odontoblasts (" tooth- germs"), send delicate processes into the tubules. The undulations of the micro- scopic tubules produce an appearance of striation which is visible to the naked eye. THE LIQUID TISSUES. Tissues Performixg a Nutritive Function. An elaborate presentation of the liquid tissues is not needed in an elementary v/ork on anatomy, for a knowledge of them, except in a superficial way, is not required for the comprehension of the description of macroscopic structures. Consequently, they are treated here in a cursory manner, and the student is referred to his text-book ou physiology for more detailed accounts of them. The liquid tissues are— The Lvmph. The Blood. They originate in connective tissue, but are so different from it in appearance, physical properties, and function as to merit consideration in a group by themselves. The Lymph. Fine and closely stowed as are the elements of the tissues, there are between them spaces, mere chinks and crannies, extremely diminutive and indescribably iri'egular, into which ooze from the blood of neighboring vessels nutrient mate- rials, and from the tissues themselves the substances which result from their waste. Thus, the tissues are constantly bathed in a mixture of their food and excrement. The spaces containing this fluid communicate freely w'ith each other, and open into the beginnings of minute and delicate tubes, which last, uniting with others of similar size, form larger tubes; these pursue a like course, and so on until tubes of considerable capacity are reached. The little crevices and the tubes are resjjectively lipiiph-spaces and I/pnph-vessels, and their contents are called lymph. The W'Ord "lymph" etymologically means "water," but histologically and physiologically it is much more than this. It varies in composition in dif- ferent parts, being poorest at the jjeriphery and richest near the centre. Exam- ined microscopically, it is seen to consist of a clear, fluid portion, Uquor li/inphce (" the liquid of the lymph"), and a cellular portion, the latter floating in the former, so that this is a tissue Avhose intercellular substance is liquid. The cells are lymph-corpuscles, and are spheroidal, granular, jelly-like, colorless bodies, aver- aging 9^0-0 inch in diameter each, with a vaguely defined nucleus, and capable of amoeboid movements. They are sometimes called leucocytes ("white cells"), because of the whitish appearance of a mass of them. The lymph-vessels which absorb lymph from the small intestines contain, during the intestinal digestion of food, not only ordinary lymph, but also ])roducts of the digestive process. This mixture is called chyle, and is milky-looking from the fact that, like milk, it contains a large proportion of oily material finely subdivided—pulverized, we would say, if it were a solid. The Blood. Like the lymph, the blood is a tissue composed of cells and a liquid intercel- lular substance. The fluid portion is called liquor sanguinis (" the liquid of the blood") or plasma. In it float microscopic particles of various kinds (Fig. 49), of which the most conspicuous and easily demonstrated are the colorless and the colored corpuscles, the former, though without a tint, often being called white, and the latter, though yellowish, red, because, Avhen seen in heaps, they present respectively the hues which these names suggest.58 ELEMENT A B Y TLSS UES. Tlie colorless corpuscles are globular, granular, about 2-5V0 "^^^^ diameter, and possess nuclei which are indistinct during the life of the cell. At rest thev display amoeboid movements. This description will be seen to coincide with that of the lyniph-eorpuseles ; and this Mall not be surprising to one who has learned that the lymph-stream pours incessantly into the current of blood, so that -w hat is at one moment a lymph-corpuscle, at the next, having entered the blood-vascular system, is a blood-corpuscle. The colorless corpus- cles are divisible into a number of varieties, which are cliiefly differentiated by means of staining tests. The colored corpuscles are very abundant, num- bering perhaps tive hundred to one of the colorless, and making about one-half of the volume of the blood. They are circular, non-nucleated discs, with rounded edges and centrally de])ressed surfaces, smooth, amber, transparent, flexible, elastic, and about y^gVs inch broad. Besides these bodies are others, inconspicuous and somewhat difficult of dem- onstration, which need not be mentioned here. The blood is contained in the chambers and tubes of the blood-vascular system, from Avhich it does not in the spleen, where it courses in wall-less channels, during menstruation, when it is discharged through Fig. 49.—Blood-corpuscles. One colorless corpuscle is seeu at the top; the others are colored. (Dal- ton.) normally escape, excepting and in the case of women ruptures in the vessels. THE MUSCULAR TISSUES. Tissues Devoted to Movejiext. Contractility is in some degree an attribnte of various tissues. The typical and original cell manifests its amreboid movements by virtue of its contractilitv, which it brings to bear now in one direction, presently in another. The cilia on the free surface of an epithelium are made to perform their rhythmical lashings because of contractility in their cells. But the muscular tissues alone depend upon this property for the sole functional quality which distinguishes them. Their contractility is displayed on a macroscopic scale, and results in the active movements by which locomotion of the body and changes in the relation of its different ]iarts are effected. We distinguish three kinds of muscle, which differ anatomically, and, for the most part, physiologically also. They are— 1. Plain muscular tissue. 2. Cross-striped muscular tissue. 3. Cardiac muscular tissue. Plain Muscular Tissue. This tissue is known by a variety of names besides that just given. It is called smooth, for the same reason that it is called plain, because of the usual appearance of its cells ; non-striated or unstriped, to distinguish it from the second kind of muscle, which is characterized by a regular criss-cross of lines on its cells; involuntary, from the fact that it is not under the control of the will; vegetcdii^e and the muscular tissue of organic life, because it aids directly in the performance of those offices Avhich are classed as vegetative—in the organic action which is beneath consciousness. It is found, for tlie most part, in the walls of the hollow organs, as, for exam- ple, the alimentary tube, the urinary bladder and the tubes leading to and from it, and the arteries and veins. It is made up of cells (Fig. 50) which typically are fusiform ; but theii- ends59 CRO^SS-STJUPED 3IUSCULAB TISSUE. i are sometimes forked instead of being single-pointed, and sometimes the spindle shape is lost by the rounding of the extremities. Often tliere is observed a faint appearance of lines running lengthwise, as if the cell were trying to develoj) into a striped fibre. A transverse cut shows that the cell has flattened sides, CN'idcntly tlie result of pressure from forcible contact with its fellows. The cell is always nucleated, and generally beyond each end of the nucleus is a little collection of granules. The cell has a delicate structureless sheath. Tlie length of the cells varies between T^l^y and inch, the greater part being very small. In some situations, as in the arterioles, the cells are separate ; but usually they are associated in such a way as to make bundles (fasciculi) or layers (strata), being united by a small amount of adhesive material. The cells are aggregated with much regularity, the bulge of one being adjusted to the ta])ering tips of its near- i W ? est neighbors (Fig. 51). AVhen distinct bundles are Fig. so. — Cells of plain muscular Fig. 51.—Cells of plain muscular tissue arranged in a sheet, tissue. (F. H. G.) (F. H. G.) formed, they are usually attached at their extremities to some other structure through the agency of a fibrous prolongation. Cross-striped Muscular Tissue. This variety, also, like the plain, has a number of other names : striped or striated, from its microscopic appearance; vohmtary, because the most of it is under the control of the will; the muscular tissue of animal life, because, while it has little direct eflFect upon the organs of the vegetative functions, it is largely concerned in those manifestations which are peculiar to animals. This tissue makes up a very considerable jiart of the bulk of the body, is principally con- nected with the bony skeleton, and is that material which, in other mammals, is called " flesh " or " lean meat." It is commonly found in coherent masses, of varying but definite shape, each of which, taken in connection with a fibrous 2)rolongation at each end, is known as a muscle. The histological unit of cross-striped muscular tissue is a muscle-fibre, which is the homologue of the cell of the plain muscular tissue. This fibre is like a long cylinder, with somewhat flattened sides, and rounded or conical ends. It is completely enveloped in a very delicate sheath, the sarcolemina. ("the flesh-hu8k "). When examined under an objective of moderate ]30wer, it seems to be marked with delicate, longitudinal, parallel, and equidistant lines, and with broad, transverse, regularly placed bands or stripes, from which the ordinary names of striated or striped (better, ci'oss-striped) originate (Fig. 52). Between these cross-stripes are lighter areas, which, with a stronger objective, seem to be divided by a fine line. The cause of these peculiar appearances is not manifest until the tissue is studied with a microscope of great power, but then it is found that they are deceptive. There are no continuous bands or lines running transversely, and the apparent breaks in the longitudinal continuity of the cross-lines are an illusion, caused by the extreme fineness of the contractile material at regularly alternating intervals. The accompanying diagram (Fig. 53) Avill illustrate this. The fibre is represented as composed of a series of threads placed side by side in longitudinal rows. Each ( of these threads is a fibril (fibrilla), and is marked by alternating bulges and con- strictions, regularly placed, and arranged in the following order : a long, wide, fusiform bulge, a constriction, a small, globular bulge, a constriction, and so on60 ELEMENT A R Y TISS UES. from one end of the fibril to the otlicr. Or, to put it in a different way, a fibril looks like a fine thread, upon which are strung large, spindle-shaped beads and small, round beads, regularly alternating, and leaving a little of the thread ex- posed between each bead and its two neighl)ors. These fibrils do not touch eaoli other, l)ut between them, and also separating them from the sarcolemma, is a thin (probably fiuid) substance, called mrcuplutsin. The fibrils are the contractile por- FiG. 52.—Part of a fibre of (.'ross-striped muscular tissue, shovviiiff the alternating bands. Fig. 53.—l>ias.'raiii slKiwingtho minute struc- ture of cross-striped muscular tissue. (F. H. G.) tion of the fil)re, and, when they contract, their spindles and beads shorten in the line of the long axis of the fibre, and swell out in the lateral direction. This causes a displacement of the sarcoplasm, which, consequently, pushes out the sarcolemma, and thus produces regularly placed protrusions along the surface of the fibre. If the diagram is viewed at a distance (as across the room), which will obscure some of its details, the effect is very like that produced by the examination of a fibre of muscle with a microscope of mod- PiG. 54.—Fragment of a fibre of cross-striped muscular tissue, show- ing fibrils separated at one end by teasing. Fig. 55.—Fragment of a fibre of cross-striped muscular tis- sue, hardened, showing trans- verse cleavage. (KoUilver.) Fiii. 'n.—Transverse section of muscle-tibre, showing nuclei. (Tes- tut.) erate power—faint, longitudinal lines and broad, transverse stripes, the latter sep- arated by light intervals, which are ci'ossed from side to side by a thin, dark streak. The spindle portion of the fibril is called a sarcous element; the round beads in a single transverse plane constitute what is known as Kraii>^e'f< membrane. In the teasing of a bit of muscular tissue with needles, it happens that many fibres are torn, and the broken ends of the fragments sometimes are frayed outCARDIAC 3IUSCULAR TISSUE. 61 like a coarse brush, tlie fibrils standing for the bristles (Fig. 54). When the fibre has been hardened by certain reagents, it will occasionally show a cross-cleavage, by which it is divided into discs (Fig. 55). Upon the inner surface of the sarcolemma are scattered a number of oval nuclei, the mmde-corpmcles (Fig. 56), so nnobtrusive that they generally escape observation unless reagents are used in the examination. They are regarded as nucleated accumulations of the sarcoplasm. In a fibre are many groups of fibrils, each collection being called a rimscle- column. The filn'es are aggregated in bundles (fasdcali), and the bundles are assembled in the contractile portion of the muscle. The fibres may be 2 inches long and ^^g- inch thick, or only a tenth part of these measurements. In muscles or fiisciculi whose length is greater than that of their component fibres the latter are joined to each other end to end. Fil)res commonly do not branch ; but in some of the lingual and facial muscles terminal divisions may be observed. The fasciculi, as a rule, run from one end to the other of the contractile part of a muscle ; but exceptions occur in double-bellied muscles and in others which have a tendinous interruption of the muscular continuity. The fasciculi, from the closeness with which they are packed, have flattened sides, and are thus more or less prismoid. As has been said above, each fibre has, as its true and perfect investment, the sarcolemma. Between the fibres is a delicate areolar tissue continuous with a thicker layer of the same, which sheathes the fasciculi ; and this is merely an inward prolongation of a still more pronounced _ lamina which coats the entire muscle. The outer tunic (Fig. 57) of the muscle is called epunysium (" upon muscle"); the sheaths of the bundles constitute the perimysium (" around muscle "); and the tissue between the fibres is the endomys- ium ("within muscle"). All of these are con- tinuous, each with the others, and all are composed of areolar tissue. Fibres which end in tendon come to it either in line with its axis or obliipiely to it. The sar- colemma of the end of the fibre is very closely attached to the tendon, and thei'e is a continuity of the areolar tissue between the fasciculi of the muscle and that between the bundles of the tendon. In these ways the two ])arts of the muscle are so firmly united that their separation by violence is extremely rare. The blood-vessels course between the fibres in the areolar tissue, making a network of long meshes. Lymph- atics, also, are numerous in the areolar tissue, and the nerves of the muscle are abundant. Cardiac Muscular Tissue. The muscular tissue of the heart has ])eculiarities, wliich ally it to the plain muscular tissue on the one hand and to the cross-striped on the other. It is like the former in being composed of nucleated cells, and in being beyond the control of the will; it resembles the latter in being cross-striped, and in presenting in a mass a color similar to that of voluntary muscle. The cells (Fig. 58) are short, branched at one end, cross-striped (though with less regularity and ))lainness than in the case of ordinary striated muscle), and are not fur- nished with sarcolemma. The cells are connected with their Fig. 57.—Sheaths of rrnjscular tis- sue in cross-section. The muscnlar tis- sue does not appear, but is rci.icscnti fl by the spaces between the |i.'iniii..i]s. Outside of the entire muscle is tiunn/x- iinii: l.i tween the bundles is pirimya- iIIIII: l.rtucen the fibres is endomysuim— the liisi shdwn In two areas at the right. Diagrammatic. (¥. H. G.) Fig. 58.—Cell muscular tissue. of cardiac (Testut.)ELEMENTA B Y TISS UES. 62 neighbors by an alirupt union, and form fasciculi and net- works (Fig. 59). The cardiac muscular tissue has a remark- ably abundant sujiply of blood- and lymph-vessels. THE NERVOUS TISSUES. Tissui<:s Essential to Sensation. The nervous apparatus is conveniently considered under two heads—the central ])ortion and the ])eri]>heral jtortion. The former comprises the brain and spinal cord, and is otherwise known as the cerebro-spinal axis; the latter in- cludes the cords which radiate from this axis, and also the ganglia (" knots ") upon these cords. In both the central and the perijiheral regions two kinds of tissue are recog- nized, which are distinguished by their color as grav and white. The white is much the more abundant in botli regions, but thei'c is a great deal more of the gray in the central than there is in the peripheral. Functionally regarded, the gray matter is that which receives impres- sions, retains, converts, and marshals them in various ways, and originates impulses : it is the part which feels, thinks, remembers, wills ; the white matter merely conveys impressions and impulses, connecting the gray matter with distant parts and associating one portion of it with another. The gray is cellular; the white is made up of fibres. Nerves consist of fibres of this kind, grouped together in bundles of small or large size. The gray ticrvous tissue is composed of cells, called verve-cells or ganglion- cells (Fig. 60). These vary greatly in shape and size in difterent parts, but they all have certain common features which are characteristic. They are granular, nucleated, usually pigmented, and have projections or processes which are called poles. At least one pole of a cell is prolonged as a nerve-fibre (Fig. 61), and thus it is seen that there is a struc- tural connection between the two kinds of nerve-tissue. The other processes of the cell—of which there may be many—radiate from its general mass, divide again and Fig. 59.—Cardiac mus- cular tissue, the cells uni- ted in a network. (Testut.) Fig. 60.—Nerve-cells. (Daltou.) Fig. 6].—Nerve cell. All of the processes are protoplas- mic except that marked a, which is the axis-cylinder pro- cess ; b indicates a clump of pigment-granules. (Gerlach.) again, and terminate in minute twigs, which mingle with, but do not become continuous with, corresponding ramifications from neighboring cells. These pro- cesses are called protoj>lasmic processes or dendrites (" tree-like "). A nerve- cell, with its dendrites, and the nerve-fibre which is continuous with the cell, constitute a neuron. The white nervous tissue (called white on account of the ap]iearance of a mass of it) is made up of fibres which vary in diameter and length, but have their63 THE NERVOUS TISSUES. NERVE CELL.— NAKED AXIS-CYLINDER AXIS-CYLINDER CLOTHED WITH MEDULLARY ..-DENDRITES. AXIS-CYLINDER PROCESS. -COLLATERAL BRANCH. MEDULLARY SHEATH. 1 -AXIS-CYLINDER. AXIS-CYLINDER CLOTHED WITH MEDULLARY - SHEATH AND NEURILEMMA. NEURILEMMA. main difference in the presence or absence of a certain coat. The simplest, because least clothed, of the fibres are small, pale, fibrillated, nucleated threads of tissue, whose component fibrillse are the minutest independently recognizable portions of the tissue. Such a thread is called a pale fibre, and also bears the name " non-medullated," on account of the lack of the tunic which distinguishes the other kind. It sends off mi- nute filaments at a right angle with its course soon after emerging from the cell, and then continues without fur- ther branching until near its end, where it divides into bundles of fibrilke, each of which splits up into smaller bundles, and so on, until the fibre has frayed out into its ultimate filaments. Besides the pale fibres is a more numerous class, called irhite or medullatcd fibres. A typical representative of this variety has three parts, of which the first and essential is centrally located, and from this fact is named the axis- c}/iinder (axis-band or axial fibre). The axis-cylinder is like a pale fibi'e, being fibril- lated, giving otf fine, lateral twigs near its origin, and di- viding into its ultimate fibril- lar at its periphery in the same manner. Outside of the axis-cyl- inder is a thick, insulating tunic, composed of a soft, oily material (myelin), and known as the medidlary nhenth or white substance of Schwann. Surrounding this first coat is a second, very delicate and thin, but sufticiently strong to keep the medullary sheath in shape. It is called the priinitive sheath, ncnrilemma (" nerve-hvisk"), or nucleated sheath. The medullary sheath is evenly spread upon the axis-cylinder, excepting at regular intervals, where it is lacking for a minute space, thus leaving the primitive sheath as the sole covering of the fibre. At these places the fibre presents the aj>pearance of being encircled with a cord so tightly as to squeeze the medullary substance away from the ]xirt. These constrictions are known as the nodes of Ranvier, and the lengths of fibre between them are called the internodes (Fig. 62). AXIS-CYLINDER CLOTHED WITH NEURILEMMA. NAKED AXIS-CYLINDER.' TERMINAL BRANCHES. Fig. 62.—a neuron. (Stohr.)ELEMENTARY TISSUES. 64 The pi'imitive sheath has on its iunei- surface a nucleus for each internode, midway between the ends t)f the latter. Either or both of the sheaths may be lacking ; and in the latter case the axis-cylinder alone is left, and we have a pale fibre instead of a white one. In brief, the axis is always present as the one essential thing in a nerve-fibre ; if it is coated with the medullary sheath, it is a white fibre ; and it may be in one part naked and in another clothed. There is no break in the continuity of the axis from one end to the other. The filaments or fibrillse composing it are held together by a cement called neuroplasm. A number of nerve-fibres gathered into a coherent bundle constitutes a funicu- lus {" little rope "). It is enclosed in a sheath of laminated fibrous tissue, called permeurium (" around nerve "), from the innermost layer of which shelf-like trabec- ulfe project between irregular groups of nerve-fibres, and compose the cndoncuriwm ("within nerve"). A single funiculus with its wra])piugs may constitute a nerve; but usually a number of funiculi are grou])ed together in a nerve, and, when this obtains, they are kept in close relation to each other by a common sheath, the epineurium ("upon nerve"). The bundles in a nerve have a network arrangement, each funiculus splitting up more or less at short intervals, and its component fibres passing into neighboring funiculi (Fig. 63). The fibres, however, always retain their in- dividuality : while they cross and recross in the nerve, and any one of them may be an ingredient of many funiculi in passing Fig. 6:?.—Connection between the bundles in a nerve. (Dalton.) Fig. 64.—Branchin from centre to periphery, there is never any coalescence between them. In the branching of nerves the same rule is observed : a funiculus lets some of its fibres switch otf at the side or separates them into substantially equal parts, but the fibres themselves remain undivided (Fig. 64). The larger vessels of a nerve course in its sheath, and the capillaries are arranged in long meshes between the fibres. The epineurium is also supplied with nerves, called nervi nevvonm ("the nerves of the nerves "). The origin of nerves varies with their function. Those which convey impulses from the centre to the ])cri[)herv, called efferent nerves (meaning " carrying from"), grow outward from nerve-cells in the centre ; while those which convey impres- sions from the periphery to the centre, called afferent (meaning "carrying to") or sensory nerves, grow inward from nerve-cells in organs of sjiecial sense or inMEMBRANES. 65 ganglia. These fibi'es branch within the nerve-centre, and send their nltimate twigs among the cells, but do not unite with theiu. Ganglia ("knots") are bunches of various sizes occurring in the course of nerves. They are made up of nerve-cells and their coverings, massed upon and between the fibres of nerves (Fig. 65). Each cell of a ganglion has one or more axis-cyl- inder processes, which are prolonged into nerve-hbres. The ganglion is clothed with areolar tissue, which sends trabecuke through it in every direction. Before coming to their peripheral divis- ion many medullatcd nerves lose their white substance ; but others retain it during several stages of branching, and in these last the division takes place at nodes. After the disappearance of the medullary sheath the primitive sheath continues for a variable distance. Afferent (sensory) nerves have various peripheral terminations. Some of them end in cells, others in special organs, as tactile corpuscles, end-bulbs, and Pacinian bodies. These will be described in the chapter devoted to the organs of the senses. Certain aflfcrcnt nerves end ])eripherally by the final separation of the axis-cylinder into its component fil)rils, wliich run between the tissue-elements, and generally either end there or else penetrate the cells. The sensory nerve- endings in tendons are often suggestive of the ending of motor nerves of volun- tary nmscle, to be described presently. Close to the muscle pro]>er a medullated fibre jiasses into the tendon, divides rci)eatedly, and the fil- aments of the axis-cylinder penetrate widely into the tendon. Efferent nerves have different endings ac- cording to the variety of muscle to which they are distributed. In the case of the plain mus- cular tissue the fibrillte of the nerve are brought close to the muscle-cells, after the nerve has formed a plexus in which ganglion-cells often occur. In cardiac muscle tlie nervous filaments come from a long-meshed plexus, and are ap- plied to the contractile fibres. Finally, in stri- ated muscle, after the formation of a close plexus, the nerve loses its white sheath, the axis-cylinder enters the muscle-fibre, and just beneath the sarcolemma splits up into its fibril- Ite, which spread out in a thin mass of granular material in which nuclei are embedded. This is the motorial end-jAate (Fig. 66). MEMBRANES. In its widest meaning the word " membrane " is used to designate any thin expansion of tissue, either simple or compound. Thus, we speak of the ])erios- teum, the covering of bone, as a fibrous memV)rane ; we call the layer of cells beneath the epitheliiun of free surfaces the basement membrane ; and a structure composed largely of blood-vessels may be known as a vascular membrane. But in a restricted, although the commonest, sense the word is applied to a broad, sheet-like organ, with a free (unattached) surface, furnishing the covering of a 5 Fig. 6.5.—Arranfiement of nerve-oells and nerve-fibres In a ganglion. (TJalton.) Fio. r.C).—Motorial end-plate, the termi- nation of a ner\ e in a tibre of crohs-striped muscle. (Testut.)ELEMENTARY TISSUES. 66 part or the lining of a cavity. Witli the hitter signification the term is employed in this section. The type npon which all of the members of the gronp are constructed consists of a foundation of white and yellow fibrous tissue, which is limited toward the free surface by a single layer of very thin, plate-like cells, and u\)u\\ tliis last an epithelium (Fig. 67). The fibrous tissues are felted into a layer of variable thick- - ( Fig. 67.—a typical membrane in vertical section. (F. H. G.) ness, strength, flexibility, and elasticity, according to the proportion and arrange- ment of its ingredients, and is called the cor/Hvu (" leather "). The lamella of flattened cells surmounting tins is really a part of the corium, for it consists merely of cells of the white fibrous tissue, greatly attenuated and adhering to each other at their edges. It is termed the baxeinent membrane. Finally comes the epithelium, which jjresents upon the free surface, and may be either simple or stratified in numberless layers. In most cases the attached surface of the membrane is connected with the underlying structures by areolar tissue, abundant or scanty, which permits some gliding of the membrane on the subjacent parts. This areolar tissue is called subserous, suImiiucous, subcutaneous, and so on, according to the kind of mem- brane under which it lies. The line between it and the corinm of the membrane is not exactly determinable, as a rule, the two structures being made of precisely the same materials, diflering only in their mode of arrangement, and gradually shading from one into the other. AVhen the membrane is peeled olf from the areolar tissue its under surface is flocculent, on account of the attachment of bundles of the fibrous tissues of the latter. In the areolar tis.sue course the larger vessels and nerves of the region, sending their branches to, or receiving their radicles from, the corium. There are four clas.ses of membranes : 1. Serous Membranes. 2. Synovial Membranes. 3. Mucous Membranes. 4. Cutaneous Membrane. SEROUS MEMBRANES. Of all the raend^ranes, the serous are the sim])lest—the nearest the type which has been described. They are always moist with a fluid very like blood-serum, and from this fact they derive their name. They are thin and transparent, permitting a view of the immediately subjacent parts, fairly strong, considering their delicacy, and somewhat elas- tic. With a single exception, which obtains in all females, but never in males, the serous memljranes are shut sacs ; that is to say, they have no opening by which they communicate with the surface of the body (Fig. 68). In the simplest of them this condition is so plain as to be easilv understood ; in the most com- FiG. 68.—Diagram showing arrangement of . • n , i a serons membrane. The broken line repre- plicated it IS UOt especially ClltnCUlt tO ClcmOll- (KH. G." '"'^"^^^'^"'^ ^^"^'"^ '^"'^^ strate, even though the form of the membraneSEROUS 3IE3rBBANES. 67 (F. H. G.) is contained. The former is called the the of reference sr one Fig. 69.—Diagram showing that when a viscus encroaches upon the space of a cavity, it still remains outside of the serous membrane, which gives it an external tunic while continuing to line the cavity. (F. H. G.) suggests but remotely that of a sac. In those which are manifestly bag-like, and which furnish a complete or partial coating to internal organs, two parts are rec- ognized—that which i.s attached to the viscus, and that which is fastened to the walls of the cavity in which the organ visceral layer, the latter the 'parietal ("on wall") or reflected jwrtion. The relations parts will be easily comprehended by to Fig. 69. The diagram represents a viscus pushin wall of the serous sac inward, thus making this ])ortion serve as a tunic for the organ ; conse- (juently, this is the visceral part. The other por- tion of the sac lines the wall of the cavity in which the viscus now is enclosed, and is, therefore, the parietal part. It is not asserted that this is the precise way in which the viscera procure their serous coat; but the condition which exists is such as would obtain if this procedure were actual. For the sake of clearness in the diagram, a cavity is represented Ijetween the epithelial sur- face of the visceral layer and that of the parietal laver ; but, as a matter of fact, tlie two layers are in actual contact, and the serous cavity, of whicli mention is often made, is not real, but virtual. Serous membranes j)resent many folds, which connect viscera with each other or with the walls of a cavity, or simply project into a cavity and return on them- selves, forming a tassel or an apron. A serous membrane may line a fibrous bag, and be I'eflected over the surface of a contained viscus, and in such case is denom- inated a fibro-serous membrane. The Gorium is thin, but contains blood-vessels, lymph-vessels, and lymphoid and adipose tissues. The lymphatics are especially abundant. The nervous supply is small and is symjiathetic in origin. The epithelium (Fig. 70) is always single and flattened, the cells having irreg- ular, notched edges and fitting accurately together, except that, at intervals, little apertures are found, some of which are the beginnings of lymph-ves- sels, and from this fact are named stovmta, from the Greek word for " mouth;" and others are filled with processes from cells in the corium, and hence are called psendo-stoniata {" false mouths "). The true stoniata are distinguished by a little boundary of cells, much smaller than those fur- nishing the general surface. The demonstration of their immediate connection with lymjih-vessels led to the belief that serous membranes are only expansions of lymphatics, and, consequently, are to be regarded as belonging to the lynijihatic system. Their physiological per- formance and their behavior in disease support this theory. The epithelial surface is particularly smooth and glistening, and thus the gliding of opposing portions is accomplished with very slight friction, which is still further reduced by the presence of the thin fluid constantly secreted by the cells. This fluid, which lubricates the membrane, is normally present in so small an amount that it merely moistens the surface. Just as fast as it is formed it is withdrawn by the lymjjhatics through the stomata. But, in disease, when the equilibrium between secretion and absorption is so disturbed that the lym])hatics do not carr}^ the fluid away as rapidly as the cells manufacture it, an accumulation occurs, the parietal layer is pushed away from the visceral by the intervening liquid, and in this way the virtual cavity is converted into a real one. Fig. 70.—Part of free surface of a serous membrane, showing the fiat- teueii epithelial cells and the stomata.68 ELEMENTARY TISSUES. Serous membranes may be divided into tolerably distinct classes, as follows : 1. Serous membranes proper. 2. The lining membrane of the vascular system. 3. The lining membrane of certain cavities in sustentacular tissues. 4. The lining membrane of the cavity of the cercbro-spinal axis. 1. Serous Membranes Proper. Under this head are included the various membranes which result from the division of the oi'iginal serous membrane lining the thoracico-abdominal cavity (Fig. 71). These are derived from the single sac by constriction, the thoracic first Tunicse Vaginales Testiim. Fig. 71.—Diagram showing formation of several serous sacs from the one original sac. (After Gegenbauer.) being separated from the abdominal, and then subdivisions of each of these making three distinct sacs of the upper grand division—the two pleurje and the pericar- dium—and three of the lower grand division—the peritoneum and the two vaginal tunics. They are called serous membranes jyroper, because they present, to an extent which the others do not, the features which have been mentioned as cha- racterizing this class of structures. The pleura; are the serous covering of the lungs ; the })ericardium encloses the heart; the peritoneum lines the abdominal cavity and clothes its contained viscera; and the vaginal tunics perform a similar service for the two chambers of the scrotum and the testicles, to which they give lodgement. These serous membranes will be treated of in detail in connection with the organs to which they are respectively related. 2. The Lining Membrane of the Vascular System. This is the internal coat of the heart and vessels, known also as the tunica intima. It bears a close resemblance to the jn'oper serous membranes in structure and appearance. Its power of forming a fluid like that of the gi-eat serous sacs is not to be doubted, but is not demonstrable, as the fluid must mingle with the current of blood or lymph as soon as it is formed. One at all acquainted with the circunistances favoring the coagulation of the blood, and the necessity of having it flow freely through the microscojiic tubes which we call capillaries, would feel warranted in the declaration that no other membrane than a serous would be practicable as a lining to the blood-vessels and lymphatics. If a mucous membrane were employed for the purpose, the small vessels would69 ^SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. speedily become clogged with its thick and slimy secretion ; and the thinnest and most delicate cutaneous membrane woidd obviously be too thick and coarse to permit the transudation necessary for the nutrition of the tissues. Only a serous membrane with its almost frictionless surface and its watery secretion could pos- sibly meet the recpiirements of the case. The details of structure of the tunica intima will be presented in connection with the description of the heart, blood-vessels, and lymphatics, respectively. 3. The Lining Membrane of Certain Cavities in Sustentacular Tissues. The most conspicuous illustration of this form of serous membrane is found in the internal ear. Around the greater part of the membranous labyrinth, which is the essential portion of the organ of hearing, and between it and the bone in which it is lodged, is a considerable S])ace, lined with serous membrane and filled with a watery fluid, which is called ])erilymph. Another example is found bet\veen the back of the eyeball and the bed of fat upon which it reposes. It is called the capsule of Tenon, and is a shut sac, with a visceral layer upon the globe of the eye and a parietal layer attached to the postjacent adipose tissue. It permits free movements of the eye in the orbit with the least possible friction. lu character and function it closely resembles the proper serous membranes. 4. The Lining Membrane of the Cavity of the Cerebro-spinal Axis. The brain and spinal cord are hollow organs. Their cavities are lined with a delicate membrane, serous in character, its epithelium being in embryonic life ciliated, and its secretion thin and watery. The membrane is known as the efirfyma (" garment") or epeucZywia. It will be described in the chapiter on the Cerebro-spinal Axis. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. By certain authorities the synovial membranes are classed with the serous, and there are some good arguments in favor of this association. But, while these mem- branes have no communication with the surface, and have the same order of func- tion as the serous membranes, there are such differences as to justify a separation of the one from the other. The group of synovial membranes with wliich surgeons have most to do are not shut sacs, although each forms a part of the wall of a closed cavity; they have a different lining from serous membranes ; their secretion is not serous; and they are not associated with the viscera. Therefore, they are here treated by themselves. The synovial membranes form a part f)r the whole of the enclosure of certain cavities, which are associated with the osseous framework or the muscular system, or both ; and the service which they render is the lubrication of parts which glide upon each other. A synovial membrane is composed of fibrous tissue, having on its free surface an imjserfect covering of cells (Fig. 72), and thus affording the great exception to the rule that free surfaces are completely clothed with cells. These cells are of no regular shape, are branched, and are gathered into little patches, which are scattered over the surface, leaving considerable areas upon which no cellular structure appears. The cells are often called epithelioid, which means "like epithelium." fig. 72.-synoviai membrane-free Their secretion is a glairy fliiid, which smears su[fece,^howmg imperfect covering of tlie entire free surface of the membrane, and is called synovia, from its resemblance to the white of egg.ELEMENTARY TISSUES. 70 Synovial niembraues are divided iuto the following groups : 1. Articular. 2. Vaginal. 3. Bursal. 1. Articular Synovial Membranes. These occur in those articulations of the bony skeleton wherein two surfaces move upon each other. The bones concerned in such a joint are covered on the surfaces, which enter into the composition of the articulation, with a crust of cartilage, whose free surface is very smooth and hard. The bones are held together by strong bands of white fibrous tissue—the ligaments—which encapsu- late the ex])anded ends of the bones, forming hollow cylinders, wliich bound the joint. The inner surface of a capsular ligament is covered with a synovial membrane, which is reflected from it a little way upon the margin of each of the cartilages. Thus, the synovial membrane is a short tube with its edges turned inward. The arrangement of the parts will be seen in Fig. 73. If, as sometimes occurs, a ligament or a tendon passes across or through the joint-cav- ity, the synovial membrane ensheaths it. (jc- casionally the membrane exhibits folds, which Fig. 73.-Diagram of articular synovial cross the cavity or hang iuto it like fringes, f:^iSZ\^k\T^f.^rof'^IZn^t '-^nd perhaps contain some adipose tissue. In The synovial membrane is shown by a all cascs the svnovia sccretcd bv the membrane broken line. (F. H. G.) l i • x il ^.-l t \\ i. t. lubricates the cartilages and other structures, which present a free surface in the joint. 2. Vaginal Synovial Membranes. These are so named from vagina, "a sheath," and are also known as synovial sheaths. They are found in situations where the tendons of muscles run over bones, to which they are bound down by strong, fibrous bands. The ])one in these cases is grooved, and the fibrous tissue bridges over the gutter, thus making a FIBROUS ROOF OF THE CHANNEL CAVITY OF SYNOVIAL SHEATH TENDON CAVITY OF SYNOVIAL SHEATH ^BONY BED CTF THE CHANNEL 2 Fir;. 74.—Diagram of a vaginal synovial membrane in cross-section. The membrane is shown by the broken lines. A space is left be- tween the tendon and channel-wall for the sake of clearness. (F. H. G.) Fig. 75.—Diagram of a vaginal synovial membrane in longitudinal section. Compare with Fig. 74. (F. H. G.) very strong, fibro-osseous canal, through which a tendon passes to its destination. The synovial membrane is arranged in the form of a tubular sheath, one portion lining the canal, the other investing the enclosed tendon, as will be seen in Figs. 74 and 75.71 MUCOUS MEMBRANES. In the movements of the tendon fric lubricating agency of the synovia. 3. Bursal Synovial Membranes. Other names for these structures are synovial bursa} {'^ aywox'vdl purses"), bursa} mueosce {" mucous purses "), and vesicular synovial membranes. A syno- vial bursa is a little bag of fibrous tis- sue, lined with synovial membrane, and placed between parts which move upon each other, as two muscles, two tendons, a muscle or tendon and a bone, the skin and a bone. The sac is connected with surrounding parts by areolar tissue, and the opposite sides of its internal surface are in contact, and kept moist with sy- novia. Some of these membranes are developed from spaces of areolar tissue by closure of connection with surround- ing spaces, and condensation of the con- tiguous fasciculi of the tissue. MUCOUS MEMBRANES. The serous and synovial membranes line closed sacs ; the mucous membranes {inembrance mueosce) line passages and cavities which have a direct communi- cation with the outer surface of the body. Indeed, from the physiological point of view, the parts which are covered by them are external, for they are regarded as inversions of the integument—por- tions of the outer investment tucked in and modified, but never lacking conti- niiity with it. There are two separate sets of mucous membranes—the gastro-pulmonary and the genito-urinary. Each of these con- sists of a continuous membrane, which lines two series of organs, and varies in many respects according to the organ of which it forms a part. The e/astro-pul- monary mucous membrane (Fig. 76) fur- nishes a free surface for the alimentary and respiratory systems, and gets its name from a principal organ of each— the stomach and the lungs. The ali- mentary part of it begins at the lips and passes through the mouth, the middle and lowest parts of the pharynx, the gullet, stomach, small and large intes- tines, and anal canal, and then comes to the skin-surface. In its course it sends offsets to the ducts of the salivary is reduced to its lowest terms by the Fig. 76.—Diagram of the gastro-pulmonary mucous membrane, showing the continuity of all 'its parts. (F. H. G.)72 ELEMENTARY TISSUES. glands, of the pancreas, and of the liver, to the gall-l)ladder, and to the vermiform appendix. The respiratory portion begins in the nostrils, and passes through the entire pharynx, the larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchial tubes, ending in the air-vesicles of the lungs. From the nasal cavities it gives prolongations to the inner surfaces of the eyelids and the front of the eyeballs, and to the chambers in the frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and upper-jaw bones; and from the pharynx it runs through tubes to the drums of the eai's and the cavities of the mastoid portion of the temporal bones. The r/enito-uri-nary mucous inemhrane lines the genital and urinary tracts, as its name implies. The portion which forms a part of the male reproductive organs (Fig. 77) leaves its junction with the skin at the distal open- FiG. 77.—Diagram of male genito-urinary mucous membrane, showing continuity of all its parts. (F. H. G.) ing of the penis, and is traced through the urethra to within an inch of its proximal end, where it enters the male womb and switches off on each side into the ejacu- latory duct, from which it sends one prolongation to the seminal vesicle and a second to the vas deferens, and through this last runs to the epididymis and the ducts of the testicle. In the female the genital tract (Fig. 78) begins at the vulva, goes through the vagina, the uterus, and the two Fallopian tubes, at the free extremities of which it is continuous with the serous membrane lining the abdominal cavity. In both sexes the urinary fimcous membrane lines the urethra, bladder, and ureters, ending at the papillae of the kidney. The variations in the character of the mucous membrane in diflFerent parts are very great, and changes are extremely abrupt at several points, while in other cases the modifications are effected very gradually. The corium (Fig. 79) is gen- erally much thicker than in serous and synovial membranes. It contains a com- paratively small proportion of yellow fibrous tissue. When it is largely occupied by follicular glands, the ordinary fibrous tissue is to a considerable extent replaced by adenoid-reticular, in whose meshes are entangled lymphoid cells, thus consti-73 MUCO US MEMBRANES. tuting a diflPuse lymphatic tissue. Usually the corium is bounded toward the free surface by a basement membrane, and deeply by a thin layer of plain muscular tissue, which is named muscularis mucosce (" the muscular [coat] of the mucous Fig. 78.—Diagram of female genito-urinary mucous membrane, showing continuity of all its parts. (F. H. G.) [membrane] "). The epithelium is the one element in the membrane which is never wanting ; but there are only a few cases and very limited areas in which it is the sole representative, the covering of the cornea being the most conspicuous. The epithelium may be single or stratified, of any possible shape, and with or without cilia. The membrane derives its name from the glairy fluid, mucus, which always covers it. This secretion is protective, and is abundant in propor-74 ELEMENT A B Y TISS UES. tion to tlie amount of irritation to which the meniljrane is subjected. Where the epithelial coat is columnar and single, the mucus is furnished very largely by the goblet-cells of the epithelium ; but, as these chalices are a modification of colum- nar cells, they are not found where the epithelium is flat; and in such cases all of the mucus comes from distinct glands, which devote themselves to this work. Mucous membrane is generally connected with subjacent parts by areolar tis- sue ; but exceptionally this is not present, and then the membrane is attached directly. This occurs only in cases where the passage or cavity which the mem- brane lines is not subject to distention, as in the nose, where the corium is fastened to the bone. In general, the areolar layer beneath mucous membrane is very abundant, and the usefulness of this arrangement appears when we consider that the corium has but little elastic tissue in its composition, and in many cases is pervaded by glandular structures, which would l)e injured by the stretching of the membrane. As a rule, the cavities and tubes which are lined with mucous membrane are liable to great changes of size, owing to their intermittent occupa- tion by solids and fluids to such an extent as to distend them. Between the periods of distention are times of collapse. If the membrane were elastic, like serous membrane, and had no delicate glands embedded in its substance, it could be stretched within a large range without harm, and would return to its state of relaxation on removal-of the distorting force ; and in such circumstances it would need but a moderate areolar layer between it and the subjacent parts. As it is, the membrane when relaxed becomes more or less folded—thrown into shallow or deep wrinkles—and presents a series of ridges, called rugcv, which in tubes are arranged in line with the longitudinal Fig. 80.—Diagram showing the folding of the Fig. 81.—Diagram showing the effacement of the- mucous membrane in a collapsed tube. (F. H. Ci.) folds of mucous membrane and the compression of the areolar layer when the tube is distended. Compare with Fig. 80. (F. H. G.) distending force is applied, as in the passage of a bolus of food through the gullet, or after a large dinner has been deposited in the stomach, these folds are effaced, the membrane becomes smoothed out, and presents an even surface (Fig. 81). This extensive change is rendered possible by the abundance of the submucous areolar coat, which is strong and elastic. Mucous membrane is very vascular, the vessels for its sup^jly running in the submucous areolar tissue, and sending minute branches into the corium above. Its nerve-supply varies greatly in different ])arts—some being extremely sensi- tive, others dull of feeling. As would be inferred from the amount of lymphoid tissue in the corium, its lymphatics are very abundant. The peculiarities of the mucous membrane of each part where it exists will be detailed in the description of the organs respectively concerned. CUTANEOUS MEMBRANE. By this term is indicated the membrane which furnishes the outer covering of the body, and is ordinarily called skin. It is a complex structure, and has75 GLANDS. a variety of functions, among which is the distinguishing of impressions of touch. It will, therefore, be more appropriately considered with the organs of the senses. GLANDS. A gland is an organ, which abstracts from the blood certain materials and makes of them a new substance, which is then discharged into a cavity or upon a surface. In other words, a gland is a secreting organ, its process and its product both bearing the name of secretion. Simply constructed membranes, such as the serous, doubtless perform some secretory work ; but it is always of a low order, and the resulting product is only slightly different from the materials of which it is composed. It would not be expected that the cells uj)on a plane surface, Avhose principal function is protective, and which are constantly subjected to hard usage on account of their exposed situation, would be able to do secretory work of any but the most primitive kind. It would be as reasonable to demand a high grade of work from an artisan stationed in the middle of a thoroughfare, where he would be jostled by every passer. Such a one needs freedom from interference, and with- draws from the bustle of the throng into a secluded retreat, where he has every facility for doing the most delicate and elaborate tasks. Nature acts in precisely this way in constructing an organ which is to make a secretion : a depression appears in a membrane—an inversion of the surface-structure takes place—and the cells, which are thus removed from the worries and dangers of the open and exposed locality, experience various changes. They become plumper and softer, their nuclei enlarge, and they develop a capacity for secretion, which their less favorably environed neighbors never emulate. The materials which they abstract from the blood are so wroufjlit over that their orig-inal character is not sug- gested by the nature of the secretion of which they are the ingredients. The organ which accomplishes this thing is a true gland ; and, as a rule, the more completely it is guarded from annoyances and interru2)tions, the more elaborate and valuable is its work. The essential thing in a gland, as has already been intimated, is the epithdial cell. The forms of secreting cells are as varied as possible, but the tendency is to keep near the spherical type. Indeed, spheroidal epithelium is hardly to be looked for outside of glands. The simplest form of a gland is the follicular, a mere dimple in the surface (Fig. 82, A). Enlargement of the embedded tube, without dilatation of its open- A B 0 D E F G Fig. 82.—Diagram showing development of glands: A, a mere dimple in the surface; B, enlargement by division; C, enlargement by dilatation; />, a combination of _B and C; £, a racemose gland; F, development of method of £; G, a single tube intricately coiled. (F. H. G.) ing, makes a saccular or flask-shaped gland (Fig. 82, C). Branching of the lower parts changes a simple gland into a compound (Fig. 82, B), and what was pre- viously the upper part of the secreting organ now becomes the duct of dis- charge, its epithelium losing its true glandular character, and becoming more like that upon the general surface. By repetition of these processes the gland becomes not only larger, but more complicated — fibrous or reticular tissue occupies the interstices, and affords mechanical support; muscular76 ELEMENTARY TISSUES. tissue forms around and in many ways elaboration goes on,, until in some glands not a suggestion of the orig- inal type remains to casual observation. And yet, the parentage of the most intricately con- structed gland can be traced back to the little inversion of the surface, which has been shown to be a simple follicular gland, and the structural principle is identical in the two. Fig. 83. — Compound tubular gland. The upper part Is the duet; the lower is the secret- ing portion. (Kolliker.) Fig. 84.—Compound racemo.se gland. The resemblance to a bunch of fruit is very marked. (Milne-Edwards.)77 EMBRYOLOGY. By J. p. McMURRICH. AT one period of its existence every vertebrate animal is represented by a single J\. cell, from which the adult individual develops by its repeated division and by the functional and histological differentiation of the aggregate of cells so formed. The cell, however, which has the power of undergoing this development is one which results from the complete fusion of two distinct elements, likewise cells, one of which is termed the ovum, and represents the female element of reproduction, the other being the spermatozoon, the male element. Spermatogenesis. The male cell is formed in the testis, and, if a section of a seminiferous tubule be examined, an arrangement will be seen which is re2>resented diagramatically in Fig. 85. The cells lining each tubule are arranged in several layers, the outermost Fig. 85.—Development, of spermatozoa. layer being formed principally by a number of cells known as ftpennaiogoncs. Each of these from time to time divides, one of the cells so produced persisting as a spermatogone, while the other becomes what is termed a primary spermato- cyte. This cell later divides into two cells, each of which is a secondary sperma- tocyte, and these, undergoing a further division, give rise to cells termed spermntkls. Thus, from each jirimary spermatocyte, by two divisions, four spermatids are developed, and each of these last becomes a spermatozoon. In addition to these various cells, others are to be found resting upon the basement membrane of the tubule, and extending through the various layers of the developing cells, the spermatozoa being grouped upon their inner ends. These are the Sertoli cells, or supporting cells, and they do not take any part in the formation of the spermato-EMBRYOLOGY. 78 zoa, but, as their name indicates, serve for the support of the germ-cells, and probably assist in their nutrition. The spermatozoa are the result of modification of the spermatids. Each of these latter is at first a round cell with a rather large nucleus, near which lies the eentrosome. Gradually this cell elongates, the nucleus takes up a position near one extremity, an axial filament develops in the cell-body, the eentrosome comes to lie behind tlie nucleus, and, as the final result, there is produced the mature spermatozoon, a body measuring in length about i^-Ly inch, and consisting of {(i) a pyriform head conijiosed of the nucleus of the original spermatid, surrounded by an exceedingly thin layer of jjrotoplasm ; (6) of a " middle piece," immediately behind the head, and representing probal)ly the eentrosome of the spermatid; {e) of the tail, derived from the cell-body of the spermatid, and composed of an axial filament surrounded by a sheath of ])rotoplasm, somewhat variable in form, though usually simply cylindrical; and ((/) of a terminal filament, which is the end portion of the axial iilament. Oogenesis. The ovum, as it exists in the ovary, corresponds to the primary spermatocyte of the male, and must undergo certain changes ere it is ready for union with the spermatozoon.' When ready to burst from the Graafian follicle, the liuman ovum (Fig. 86) is a spherical cell about diameter, enclosed within a meral)rane, the zona radiuta, and containing a large nucleus, situated somewhat excen- trically, while centrally there are a number of granides of food- yolk, a substance much more abundant in the ova of other mammals, such as the cat, and which forms the greater mass of the ovum of birds and reptiles. The maturation phenomena (Fig. 87) by a series of divisions con- vert the ovum into a structure homologous with a spermatid. At the first division (^1, B, C) the oocyte, as the ovum at this stage may be termed, divides into two cells, one of which is, liowever, very small and is termed a polar globule, while the other is practically as large as the original oocyte. By a second division {D, E) a second polar globule is formed, and the nucleus then passes into the resting stage and moves toward the centre of the ovum {F). There are thus two maturation divisions, just as there are two divisions of the spermatocytes in spermatttgenesis ; and the polar globules are to be regaitled as abortive ova, M'hich take no further part in development, but degenerate. After the extrusion of the polar globules the ovum is ready for union with the spermatozoon—a process which occui's probably, as a rule, in the upper part of the Fallopian tube. A spermatozoon penetrating the zona radiata is received into the substance of the ovum, and gradually passes centrally toward the ovum-nu- cleus. The tail of the spermatozoon is sooner or later absorbed ; but the liead— which, it will be remembered, rejjresents the nucleus f)f the spermatid—and tlie middle piece pass on to come into close ajiposition, and finally to fuse, with the oviun-nucleus, the compound nucleus so produced soon becoming converted into a division spindle which inaugurates the segmentation of the ovum. ' Neither tliese eliaiifces nor the phenomena of fertilization have yet been observed in the human ovum. Tliey have been observed, however, repeatedly in the ova of many of the lower animals, both vertebrate and invertebrate, and their general similarity in all cases makes the jtrobability that they occur also in the human ovum almost a certainty. Fig. 86.-Ovum. (Waldeyer.)79 THE EARLY STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT. It would seem from these plienomeua that the essential feature of fertilization is the union of the nuclei of two cells, the small amount of protoplasm present in the head of the spermatozoon seeming to play little part in the process. Since both paternal and maternal characteristics may be inherited, it has been supposed DEE Fig. 87.—Diagram illustrating the plieiiomena of maturation. (Testut.) that the nuclei must be the material bearers of hei'edity; and, since the charac- teristic substance of a nucleus is the chromatin, this has been regarded l)y many authors as the actual substance concerned in transmitting inherited peculiarities from the parent to the offspring. The Early Stages of Development. By segmentation is meant the conversion of the unicellular ovum into a mass of cells, a process which results from a series of divisions. The ovum first divides (Fig. 88) into two cells (a), each of these again dividing, so that four cells are Fig. 88.—Segmentation of the ovum. (After van Beneden.) formed (6), and, the divisions continuing (c, (T), a solid ma.ss of cells, termed a morula, is produced (e). A section through such a mass (Fig. 89, ^1) will show that it is composed of an outer layer of somewhat flattened cells enclosing aEMBRYOLOGY. 80 number of distinctly granular cells. At first no cavity exists in the centre of the morula, but soon the outer cells become in large jiart forced away from the inner ones by the imbibition of a fluid supplied by the walls of the uterus, and what is SEG M E NTA- TION CAVITY. ZONA PELLUCIDA. ECTODERM. Fig. 89.—Sectional views of ovum, after sogmeiitatioii, (After van Beneden.) termed a segmentation cavitj/ is formed (Fig. 89, B). The morula is thus converted into a hollow vesicle, termed the blastodermic vesicle, whose wall is formed by a single layer of cells, except at one region, where what were the inner cells of the morula form a lenticular thickening (Fig. 90). Later, this thickening flattens out, its cells becoming arranged in two layei-s, the innermost of which is composed of thin flat- tened cells, and forms what is termed the endoderm layer, while the outer one, consisting of cylin- drical cells, is known as the ecto- derm. External to these two layers, again, is a third one of flattened cells, termed the covering cells, which is continuous with the wall of the vesicle, but which eventually disappears so as to expose the ectoderm cells upon the surface. Still later, the endoderm layer, increasing in size, extends outAvard in all directions, and the vesicle presents a ditferentiation into three regions. One Fig. 90.—Blastodermic vesicle. (After van Beneden.; EMBRYONIC SHIELD. EMBHVONIC SHIELD. Fig. 91.—Blastodermic vesicle, viewed from above. (Kdlliker.) Fig. 9'2.—Blastodermic vesicle, side. (Kolliker.) viewed Irom the portion of its surface is occupied by a clear area composed of ectoderm and endo- derm, and termed the embryonic shield (Fig. 91) ; extending from this to about the81 THE EARLY STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT. equator of the vesicle is the region over which the endoderm layer has extended; and, lastly, the lower half of the vesicle is formed only of a single layer of cells, as in earlier stages. As development proceeds the embryonic shield increases in size and assumes an oval shape, and near one end of it there appears a dark longi- tudinal band which is termed the prhmtlve streak (Fig. 92, />'), and which is formed by the fusion of the ectoderm and endoderm. From this line of fusion cells grow out on either side into the space between the ectoderm and endoderm, and consti- tute a middle layer, the mesoderm. The three layers of cells thus produced constitute what are termed t\\e (/ena- layers, and it is by the differentiation of the cells composing them that the various tissues and organs of the embryo are developed, each layer giving rise to certain definite structures. There has not yet appeared, how- ever, any distinct indication of the embryo proper. This makes its appearance soon after the formation of the primitive streak in the form of a groove (Fig. 93), extending from what may be considered the front end of the streak almost to the front edge of the embryonic shield ; the groove is bounded by two ridges, which unite in front, but diverge somewliat behind, so as to embrace the front end of the primitive streak. The groove is termed the medulktri/ e/roove, and the ridges are the medullary ride/es, the whole forming the anlage or rudiment of the central nervous system. Immediately l)encath the medullary groove another groove likewise appears in the endoderm, the convexity of this groove being directed toward the floor of the medullary groove ; its two lips later unite, the cavity of the canal so formed disappears, and a solid rod of peculiar texture, known as the notochord, is produced, lying imme- diately beneath the central nervous system (Fig. 94). Fig. 93.—Formation of in-imitive streak and medullary groove. (Kolliker.) NEURAL CANAL. ECTO- DERM. WOLFFIAN DUCT. CCELOM OR BODY CAVITY. CCELOM OR ODY CAVITY. SOMATIC LAYER. SPLANCH- NIC LAYER. VESSELS. NOTOCHORD. AORTA. VESSELS. Fig. 94.—Transverse section through dorsal region of embryo. It has already been stated that the mesoderm forms in the region of the primitive streak ; it also arises frf)m those portions of the endoderm which are immediately adjacent to the notochordal groove on either side, and there is thus produced on each side of the middle line of the embryonic shield a sheet of mesoderm, which, however, early undergoes differentiation. In the first place,EMBRYOLOGY. 82 the sheet does not long remain single, but a split occurs in it, so that it becomes separated into two layers (Fig. 94), an outer one adjacent to the ectoderm and termed the parietal or somatic layer, and an inner one adjacent to the endoderm and known as the visceral or splanchnic layer. The cavity which separates these two layers is known as the ccelom, or body-cavity, and at first is continuous through- out the entire extent of the mesoderm. A second dilierentiation, however, early sii])ervenes, consisting of the separation, on each side, of a small ])ortion of the cadom from the rest, the somatic and splanchnic layers of mesoderm coming into contact and fusing a short distance external to the median line, while, at about the same time, a series of transverse constrictions divides this inner, narrower portion of the mesoderm into a series of oblong boxes which are termed protovertehra', or, better, mesodermal somites (Fig. 95). The formation of these somites begins in CEREBRAL VESICLES PRIMITIVE LINE. Fig. 95.—Development of somites. (Testut.) \\\Vc\i M'ill be the neck region of the embryo, and thence extends forward and backward until the entire median portion of the mesoderm, not only in what will be the trunk of the future embryo, but also in the head region, is divided into a series of somites. Each of these in the trunk region is connected with the more peri])heral undivided mesoderm by an intermediate cell-mass, which represents the longitudinal fusion of the somatic (parietal) and splanchnic (visceral) layers, and each contains a small portion (jf the originally continuous cadom. While these changes have been going on, the endoderm continues its extension, and finally its edges fuse at the lower pole of the blastodermic vesicle, which thus, tlu'oughout its entire extent outside the end)ryonic shield, becomes two-layered. The shield itself has also increased considerably in size, and allows certain regions to be distinguished. Along its median line are to be seen (Fig. 95) the anlagen of the embryo just described, and this region and the immediately adjacent parts may be termed the embryonic area ; external to this is a region where the shield presents a somewhat transparent apjiearanee, and this is termed the area pellu- cida; while the more perijiheral portions are ojjaque and receive the name of the area opaca. In this last region extensive changes have been taking jilace in the mesoderm : some of its cells arrange themselves so as to form a network of coi'ds, into the substance of which fluid penetrates from the surrounding tissues, the cords being thus transformed into canals in which lie numerous cells. TheseTHE UMBILICAL CORD AND THE PLACENTA. 83' canals are blood-vessels ; the fluid which they contain becomes the plasma of the blood; the outermost cells of the original cords tlatten and produce a thin wall for the vessels, while the more central cells group themselves into masses, which project here and there into the interior of the vessels from their walls, and are termed the hlood-islands. An abundant network of blood-vessels traversing the area opaca is thus formed, the intervals of the network being occupied by masses of unspecialized cells, which are termed subt^tancc-islands, and later give rise to embryonic connective tissue. Toward the periphery of the area opaca a circular blood-vessel, known as the sinus termincdis, is formed, marking the extreme periph- ery of the vascular region ; and, though the area opaca may extend beyond this, the blood-vessels do not, and it is thus possible to divide the area opaca into a more central area vasculosa, and a more peripheral area opaca proper. The forma- tion of blood-vessels begins a little later in the area pellucida, and thence they grow in toward the body of the embryo. The Umbilical Cord and the Placenta. The embryo at this stage is represented by a thickening occupying the median portion of the embryonic shield. The anterior end of the thickening now begins to sink down into the interior of the vesicle, a process which is continued until finally only the posterior extremity of the embryo remains at the surface (Fig. 96, A). The embryo thus comes to occupy the floor of a depression, which, relatively deep in front, becomes shallower posteriorly, and is surrounded by a well-marked lip or fold, consisting of ectoderm and somatic mesoderm, and known as the amniotie fold. By this time the mesodermal layers, as well as the endoderm, in their extension over the inner surface of the blastodermic vesicle, have reached its lower pole, where they fuse together, and, the coelomic cavities extending pari passu with the mesoderm, the extra-embiyonic portion of the vesicle becomes throughout its entire extent double-walled, the outer wall being composed of the original wall of the vesicle (which may l)e regarded as ectoderm) plus the somatic layer of the mesoderm ; while the inner wall is composed of splanchnic mesoderm plus endoderm. These two walls are separated by the coelomic cavity, which becomes relatively voluminous, the inner wall, enclosing a cavity known as the mnbilical veside (Fig. 96) or yolk-sac, being separated by a considerable interspace from the outer wall, which is now termed the chorion. While these changes have been taking place the embryo has begun to constrict itself from the embryonic shield by a tucking in, as it were, of the wall of the embryonic vesicle in front and at the sides under the body of the embryo. The anterior portion of the embryo thus becomes cylindrical and completely shut off" from the yolk-sac, which, as the result of the constriction, becomes converted into a pyriform vesicle connected with the intestine of the embryo by a narrow stalk. The constriction, continuing to develop from before backward, finally reaches the posterior end of the body, where it wraps itself around the connection of the embryo with the surface of the embryonic vesicle, converting this connection into a stalk known as the beJly-stalk or Bauchstiel. In its passage backward the con- striction carries with it the yolk-sac, which thus becomes enclosed within the belly-stalk, as does also a small evagination of the ventral Avail of the intestine of the embryo, situated behind the attachment of the stalk of the yolk-sac, and known as the allcvntois, a rudiment of a structure of considerable size in some of the lower mammalia and in the birds and reptiles, where it functions as an embryonic respiratory organ. In the subsequent development the belly-stalk elongates greatly, its cavity, which is continuous with the coelom of the embryo, becoming filled by a peculiar mesodermal, jelly-like connective tissue, the Wharton- ian jelly, in which are imbedded the rudimentary allantois, the umbilical vesicle, and certain blood-vessels, the whole forming what is termed the umbilical cord, the outer end of which comes into intimate relation with the walls of the uterus, forming the placenta (Fig. 96, B).84 EMBRYOLOGY. It has been seen that the depression of the embryo into the embryonic vesicle gives rise to the formation of an amniotic fold. ' As the constriction of the embryo from the embryonic shield progresses, this fold increases in size, and eventually its lips unite at the outer end of the belly-stalk, the depression in which the embryo lies being thus converted into a closed cavity, the amniotic Fig. 96.—Diagram showing the formation of the heUy-stalk. The heavy (lotted line represents the embry- onic portion of the epiblast, the dotted portions and brol^en lines the mesoblast, and the inner continuous line the hypoblast. cavitt/. The formation of this cavity takes place very early in the development, the earliest known embryo having it already completely closed ; and the same remark applies to the formation of branched outgrowths, which develop from the surface of the chorion and are known as the chorionic tn/H. These appear at first over a broad equatorial zone of the embryonic vesicle, but later are developed also at either pole, that portion of the vesicle to which the belly-stalk is attached also developing them. In this last region the villi continue to develop probably throughout gestation, taking part in the formation of the placenta, while over the rest of the vesicle they atrojihy during the second month of development; and it is thus customary to speak of the placental chorion as the chorion frondo- suni, while the remainder is termed the chorion Iceve. Concomitantly with the formation of these embryonic structures important changes take place in the walls of the uterus (Fig. 97). In the first place, the mucous membrane lining it becomes thickened, forming what is termed the dccidua vera, that jjortion of it which is in contact with the chorion frondosum of the embryo becoming especially thick and highly vascular, and forming the decidua serotina ; and, secondly, from the margin of the serotina a fold arises, which grows up around the embryo, and finally encloses it, forming what is termed the decidua rejlexa. Into the villi ofTHE UMBILICAL CORD AND THE PLACENTA. 85 the chorion frondosum blood-vessels pass from the embryo along the umbilical cord, and the vessels of the decidua serotina, developing into large sinuses, have projecting into them the villi, the blood of the embryo being thus brought into such intimate relation with that of the parent that an interchange by osmosis through the thin walls separating the two fluids readily takes place, and the nutrition, as well as the respiration and excretion, of the embryo is thus provided for. The entire region in which the interchange takes place is termed the pla- FiG. 97.—Diagram of gravid uterus, showing formation of decidua? and placenta. (Testut.) centa, which, as has been seen, is composed of a foetal and a maternal portion intimately related. At birth the placenta and the other decidute separate from the uterus and are cast oif, forming what is known as the after-birth. To return now to the embryo proper. At its first separation from the embry- onic shield it is practically straight, but a bend soon makes itself apparent in what will later be the region of the mid-brain, the fore-brain being bent ventrally until it is almost at a right angle to the rest of the body ; and, at about the same time, a linear depression directed dorso-ven- trally appears on each side of the neck region, and gradually deepens until it almost unites with the cavity of the digest- ive tract. This depression is known as a branchial deft, and is succeeded by three others which develop successively from before backward (Fig. 98). When the second cleft is devel- oped a second flexure of the embryo appears, the posterior portion of the body being bent dorsally. This flexure, how- ever, is of short duration, and leaves no permanent trace of its existence; but, when the third branchial cleft forms, a third and more prominent flexure appears, this time a ventral flexure situated in the neck region, and, as the dorsal portion "^t^^l'^P™*:?'^ ^ , , , , , n • 1 !• • 1 ofthe embryo—first month. ot the body also becomes curved in the same direction, the (His.) embryo seems to be coiled upon itself. Soon after the develop- ment of this neck-flexure the limbs make their appearance as simple paired, bud-like outgrowths from the sides of the body, and, as development proceeds, they increase in size, and rudiments of the fingers and toes appear. Gradually in later stages86 EMBRYOLOGY. the branchial clefts disappear or are modified into special structures not seen from the exterior, the features are gradually developed, the neck-flexure straightens out, and by about the third month of development the embryo has acquired a distinctly human appearance. It will now, after this sketch of the formation of tlie embryo, be convenient to consider the development of the more important organs of tlie body, and these may be grouped according to the germ-layers from which they are" principallv formed. For convenience the development of the organs derived from the endoderm will first be considered. FRONTO-NASAL PROCESS. OLFACTORY PIT. MAXILLARY PROCESS. ORGANS DERIVED FROM THE ENDODERM. At the stage with which the description of the formation of the germ-layers ended the endoderm formed a tube closed at either end, and having coimected with it two outgrowths, the umbilical stalk and the allantois. An examination of the surface of the eml)ryo at this stage will show a pentagonal depres- sion opjiosite the anterior end of the endodermal tube (Fig. 99). Tiiis de- pression is the oral sin us, or stomo- dcetoii, and it is boimded in front by the edge of a median fold of tissue known as the fronto-nasal process, while on either side is a >-shaped ridge, the anterior limb of each ridge being termed the maxillary, and the posterior the mandibular process. The thin jiartition which forms the floor of the oral sinus soon ruptures, and the endodermal tube is thus placed in communication with the exterior, its endoderm becoming continuous with the ectoderm of the sinus. Soon after the mouth is thus formed the t\vo maxillary ridges, growing toward each other, meet beneath the fronto-nasal process, and, in the connective tissue which they contain, the maxillary bones develoji. From each of these bones a horizontal lamella grows inward, and meets with its fellow of the opposite side and with correspond- ing lamellfe from the palatine bones behind, and the hard palate is thus formed, separating the original mouth-cavity into an iijiper or nasal and a lower or oral portion, these two cavities communicating behind witli the upper or pharyngeal part of the intestinal tube. Fig. 99.—Development of tlie flice. (Testut.) The Teeth and Salivary Glands. As early as the sixth week of development there appears, dipping into the lower and upper surfaces respectively of the maxillary and mandibular processes, a thickening of the ectoderm, whose cells subsequently arrange themselves into an anterior and posterior layer, the space which appears between these layers becoming the groove between the lip and the gum (Fig. 100). From the poste- rior layer a horizontal ridge grows inward into the substance of each gum, forming the dental shelf, and upon the under or upper surface of each shelf ten thickenings arise, each of which forms a more or less globular mass of cells, the enamel ore/an, connected with the dental shelf only by a narrow neck which ulti- mately disappears. In the mesoderm beneath each organ a rapid proliferation of cells forms a papilla, over which the enamel organ is folded like a cu]), those cells of the papilla which are in contact with the enamel organ becoming, like the outer- most cells of the latter, cylindrical, and forming tlie odrmtohlasts, whose office it is to deposit the dentine between themselves and the enamel organ. This they begin to do at about the end of the fourth month of development, and at about the sameBRANCHIAL CLEFTS AND STB UCTUBES DERIVED FR03I THEM. 87 time the enamel begins to be formed by the lower ends of the deeper layer of cells of the enamel organ becoming transformed into calcareous prisms. Finally, around the outside of that portion of the papilla which is not covered by the enamel organ Fig. 100.—Diagram of the development of a tooth. there appears, about the fifth month, a deposition of bony matter derived from mesodermal cells and constituting the cement. After the separation of the anlagen of the milk teeth from the dental shelf the latter continues to sink deeper into the substance of the jaw, and ojiposite each milk tooth a second enamel organ arises from it, and, mesodermal papillte also forming as before, the anlagen of the permanent incisors, canines, and pre- molars are formed. The permanent molars arise in a similar manner from a lateral extension of the dental shelf, and as soon as all the anlagen are formed the tissue of the shelf in the intervals between the various teeth begins to disap- pear, occasionally, however, persisting in irregular masses until adult life, and producing various abnormalities. In addition to the teeth certain glandular structures develop from the epithe- lium of the oral cavity, the most important of which are the salitniry glands, which arise as simple tubular evaginations, and gradually, by branching, become more and more complicated. The Branchial Clefts and the Structures derived from Them. At each side of the pharynx there are, as already stated, four furrows (Fig. 99), represented internally by corresponding depressions, so that along each furrow the pharyngeal epithelium is in contact with the ectoderm of the surface of the body. In the lower vertebrates actual perforation of the thin membrane so formed occurs, forming the gill-slits, but in birds and mammals the perforations do not develop. The fii'st furrow lies immediately behind the mandibular process, and between the members of each successive pair of furrows is a thickened ridge, constituting a branchial arch, each arch being homologous with the maxillo-mandibular pro- cesses, which really represent the first arches, the mouth being the first branchial cleft. As development progresses the second arch of each side grows more rapidly than the others, which are in consequence pushed inward toward the median line, and a deep depression is formed at the side of the neck, the sinus pmcervicedis. From the posterior edge of the second arch a fold grows backv/ard over the mouth of this sinus, and eventually completely covers it in by uniting posteriorly with the side of the body.EMBRYOLOGY. 88 From or in connection with the branchial arches or clefts a number of struc- tures develop, some of which may be considered here. From the epithelium of the fourth pair of clefts two thickenings develop, and subsequently fuse together, the single mass so formed growing backward toward tlic pei-icardium, separating from the clefts, and enlarging by branching at its posterior end. It forms the thymus gland, whose epithelial anlage becomes early infiltrated with lymphatic tissue, and which, subsequent to the second year after birth, begins to undergo degenerative changes. The thyroid gland arises partly from tlie last j^air of clefts as paired hollow evaginations, and partly from a median evagination of the floor of the pharynx in the vicinity of the second branchial arch. These anlagen early fuse together, and the gland usually loses all connection with the jiharynx, the foramen caecum at the base of the tongue representing, however, the place of the origin of the median anlage. The tongue is, embryologically, partly a product of the pharyngeal region, and arises from two anlagen. Its anterior portion arises as a thickening of the floor of the oral cavity, its back portion, however, developing as a pair of thickenings situated in the vicinity of the second and third branchial arches. These thicken- ings extend forward and outward, forming a V-shaped mass, M'hich encloses in front the posterior end of the anterior anlage. The junction of the two anlagen is indicated in the adult by the V-shaped groove in which the circunivallate papillae are situated, the foramen ciecum, already referi-ed to in connection with the thyroid gland, lying at the apex of the groove. The Trachea and Lungs. Below, the pharynx communicates with the tubular oesophagus, and on the inner surface of the upper part of this there early appears a longitudinal groove, from the lower end of which two pouch-like outgrowths develop. As soon as these begin to foi'm the groove begins to be constricted from below upward from the oesophagus, and becomes the trachea and larynx, the constriction not contin- uing to complete separation, so that the larynx communicates above with the pharynx. In the connective tissue of the walls of the trachea cartilaginous rings develop, the up^^ermost of which form the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages of the larynx, the thyroid cartilage being produced by the fusion of the ventral ends of two pairs of cartilaginous bars which are primarily develoj^ed in the mesoderm of the fourth and filth branchial arches. The pouch-like outgrowths are the anlagen of the lungs, and at an early stage become lobed, three lobes appearing in the right lung and two in the left. Secondary and tertiary saccula- tions later appear, and the complicated structure of the adult lung is acquired. It is to be noted that the epithelium of the lungs, trachea, and larynx is of endodermal origin. The Intestine and Mesenteries. From that portion of the primitive intestine whieli succeeds the oesophagus, the stomach and intestines, together with the liver and pancreas, develop. Of the two structures which in early embryonic life are connected with it, the allan- tois early separates, its intra-eml^ryonic portion persisting as the urinary bladder and the urachus, while the stalk of the umbilical vesicle retains its connection until after birth, the intra-embrj^onic portion of it occasionally persisting even into adult life as a more or less pronounced diverticulum of the lower part of the small intestine, known as Meckel's diverticulum. At first the intestine is a simple straight tube attached to the dorsal wall of the abdominal cavity by a dorsal mesentery, formed by the reflection over it of the peritoneal lining of the alxlominal cadom. Its upper portion is also attached to the anterior wall of the abdomen by a ventral mesentery, wliose lower border is falciform in shape, and is attached to the abdominal wall at the umbilicus. This simple arrangement, however, soon disappears, as the intestine,89 THE INTESTINE AND MESENTERIES. growing in length more rapidly than the cavity in which it lies, is pushed out into a loop, as is represented in Fig. 101. The elongation continuing, the loop Fig. 101.—Diagram of the human mesentery in its primitive relations. (C. S. Minot.) bends upon itself, that portion of the intestine which will become the transverse colon passing over the portion which is to become the duodenum. During the elongation of the intestine the edge of the dorsal mesentery which is attached to it undergoes a corresponding increase in length, while at the line of attachment to the body-wall it increases but slightly, the mesentery of the loop in conse- quence assuming a fan-like form, and, when the twisting of the loop supervenes, becoming funnel-like. By this time a ditferentiation of the intestinal tube has occurred, the portion of it above the loop becoming enlarged to form the stomach, while the portion of the loop which passes transversely across the abdominal cavity and the portion of the intestine below this becomes the large intestine. The ccecum develops as an outgrowth from the large intestine at the point where it is joined by the small intestine, and the vermiform appendix is an outgrowth from the c£ecum. The stomach Greater curvature Anterior lamella of greater omentum Posterior lamella of greater omentum Transverse colon Greater omentum Diaphragm Liver Lesser omentum Pancreas Transverse mesocolon Duodenum Mesentery Small intestine Fig. 102.—Diagram to illustrate the history of the liuman mesentery—earlier stage. (Hertwig.) further changes in the intestine consi-st principally of a continued elongation, especially of the small intestine, and of the occurrence of fusion and degeneration of certain portions of the mesentery. Thus, the mesentery attached to the trans- verse colon, primarily radiating from the apex of the mesenterial funnel, later90 EMBRYOLOGY. extends its insertion laterally npon the body-wall, forming a transverse sheet, the mesocolon. This passing over the duodenum binds it fast to the posterior wall of the abdomen, and as a result the duodenal mesentery degenerates. The ascending and descending colon likewise come to lie in contact with the abdominal wall, and their mesentery degenerates to a certain extent, their lower portions being only covered, and not enclosed, by peritoneum. The stomach, in the mean time, has also been undergoing certain changes in position. At first it is straiglit, what later becomes the small curvature being directed anteriorly ; but soon its pyloric end shifts over toward the right side of the body, and, at the same time, the entire structure twists in such a manner that its original left surface becomes anterior, and the small curvature is directed to the right.^ As the result of this the portion of the dorsal mesentery which is attached to the stomach becomes thrown into a pouch lying behind the stomach, the cavity of the pouch forming the omental cavity, and its floor later being drawn downward to form the great omentum, the posterior layer of which, as it passes back to the body-wall, fuses with the mesocolon. During the progress of these changes a pair of outgrowths have been develop- ing from the duodenum and passing forward between the two layers of the ventx'al mesentery. They unite to form the livei-, which quickly reaches a large size—so large, in fact, that the two layers of the mesentery cannot quite meet around it, JHaphiagm Liver Lcsaer omentum Pancreas Part of omentum enclosing pancreas Transverse mesocolon Duodenum Mesentery Small intestine Fig. 103.—Diagram to illustrate the history of the human mesentery—later stage. (Hertwig.) but are reflected from its sides as the coronary ligaments. The upper portion of the mesentery, above the liver, remains unchanged, however, forming the falciform ligament, while the portion below is affected by the torsion of the stomaeli, so that its faces come to lie dorsally and ventrally, instead of right and left, and it forms the small omentum (Figs. 102, 103). The Liver and Pancreas. The live7- arises as a pair of hollow outgrowths from the ventral surface of the upper part of the duodenum. Each outgrowth, which represents one of the lobes of the adult liver, becomes greatly complicated by the development of numerous lateral solid branches, these developing others, and so on, the various branches uniting with one another to form a network in the meshes of which are found capillary blood-vessels. The solid branches, termed hepatic cylindcrf!, become converted partly into bik-ducfs and capiHaries by hollowing out, and partly into the liver parenchyma, the original network becoming more or less inconspicuous. The various bile-capillaries unite to form the right and left hepatic ducts, which ^ It may be pointed out that this twisting? is tlie cause of tlie position of the pneumogastric nerves in tlieir course over the stomach in the adult, the left nerve passing in front of and the right nerve behind the viscus. Stomaeli Greater curvature Posterior lamella of greater omentum JVansverse colon. Greater omentum-ORGANS DERIVED FROM THE MESODERM. 91 at first open separately into the duodemun ; but later the duodenum becomes pouched where they enter, and this pouch is drawn out to form the common bile- duct, from which the gall-bladder and cystic duct arise as a hollow evagination. The pancreas arises as a hollow evagination of the dorsal wall of the duode- num ojiposite the point where the liver anlagen appear, and grows dorsally between the two layers of the dorsal mesentery, gradually becoming very much branched. It is affected by the torsion of the stomach, so that it assumes a transverse posi- tion in the abdominal cavity, and on the develojiment of the mesocolon is pushed with the duodenum against the dorsal wall of the abdomen, its mesentery in con- sequence undergoing degeneration. Its duct, which at first is attached to the dorsal surface of the duodenum, gradually moves around toward the ventral surface^ and finally, as a rule, unites with the common bile-duct. ORGANS DERIVED FROM THE MESODERM. The primitive layers of the mesoderm have their cells arranged at first in an epithelial manner, and this an-angement is pi'cserved by certain portions of the layers for a considerable time, even, it may be, throughout life ; to these j^ortions the term mesotheUma may be applied. At certain regions, however, cells are budded off from the primitive layers to form irregular masses, or become scat- tered throughout the body without any definite arrangement; and these cells are termed mesenchyme. It is possible, in accordance with this division of the mesoderm, to recognize mesothelial and mesenchymatous organs. The Skeleton. From the mesenchyme are derived the connective and supportive tissues of the body, whose histological differentiation need not be considered here. A few statements may be made, however, concerning the development of the skeleton. The first trace of a supportive structure in the embryo is the notochord. (Fig. 104), Fig. 104.—Cross-section of embryo. whose formation has already been described, and which is practically a transitory structure, being replaced later by the spinal column and skull. From a jwrtioii of each of the mesodermal somites a mass of cells is budded off, and these masses arrange themselves on either side of the notochord, which they eventually enclose, growing dorsally at the same time around the spinal cord. In the intervals between the members of each pair of mesodermal somites each mesenchymatous mass begins to be transformed into cartilage, which later ossifies to form the vertebral centmm; and, as the ossification proceeds, the portions of the notochord enclosed by the92 EMBBYOLOGY. in two cartilaginous barf centra are gradually encroached upon and finally disappear, the intervening por- tions persisting as the gelatinous substance of the intervertebral disks. The neural arches develop a little later than the centra, and ossify separately, uniting with the centra only after birth. The ribs arise by the chondrification and subsequent ossification of the niesen- chymatous tissue situated between the members of each pair of mesodermal somites, the ribs of the thoracic region being, however, the only ones which undergo complete development, extending in the wall of the body to the ventral surface, whei'e a number of them unite to form the sternum. In the other portions of the trunk and in the neck tliey remain small, and become united with the ver- tebrae, being represented in the cervical region by the ventral portions of the transverse processes, in the lumbar region by the costal processes, and in the sacrum by the lateral masses. The skull shows from the beginning no trace of being composed of distinct vertebi'fe, except in the occipital region. The first trace of the skull is found ilaced one on each side of the antei'ior end of the noto- chord. These are the paracJiordal cartilages (Fig. 105), and in front of them two other cartilages known as the trabeculm cranii are formed. These four carti- lages eventually unite together, and tlie tral)eculje uniting at their anterior extremities to form a plate, known as the ethmo-vomer- ine 2jlate, a cartilaginous basis cranii is formed, which later ex- tends dorsally behind and at the sides, leaving, however, the greater portion of the brain cov- ered only by membrane. About the third montli of development centres of ossification begin to ajipear in this chondro-cranium, resulting in the formation of a number of separate bones, which later fuse with one another to a and ethmoid bones, all of which -PTERYGOID RTILAGE. kel's cartilage mandibular). POPHYSIS. VOID CARTILAGE. FOR FACIAL NERVE. RIOTIC PSULE 3R GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL NERVE. '"'^EUMOGASTRIC NERVE. ''VP NOTOCHORb. PARACHORDAL -pr,-. CARTILAGE °GLOSSAL NERVE. Fig. 105.—Cranial cartilages of embryo. (C. S. Minot, after W. K. Parker.) certain extent to form the occipital, sphenoid are really composite bones. In addition to the bones which are thus developed, other elements occur in the skull and may be arranged in three groups : (I.) A number of bones are developed without being preformed in cartilage, their osseous matter being deposited directly in fibrous connective tissue. In this way—as membrane bones, as they are termed—are formed the parietals and frontals and the bones of the face, such as, for example, the nasals, malars, lachrymals, palatines, and maxillae. (II.) Around each auditory organ a cartilaginous case, the periotic capsule, devel- ops, quite independently of the primary chondro-cranium, filling up a gap in its walls on each side between the occipital and sphenoid bones, and from it are formed the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal, the squamous and tympanic portions being membrane bone!^ which secondarily unite with the cap- sule. (III.) In each branchial arch a cartilaginous bar develops, these bars foi'ming what is termed the visceral skeleton, and certain of them become intimately related to the skull. The dorsal end of the maxillo-mandibular cartilage becomes entirely replaced by membrane bones, the maxillae, palatines, and internal pterygoid plates of the sphenoid ; while its lower end, known as MecheVs cartilage, ossifies and unites Avitli a number of membrane bones, which enclose it, to form the lower jaw or mandible, and also takes part in the formationTHE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS. 93 of the ossicles of the middle ear. The cartilages of the second and third arches unite to form the hyoid bone, the small horn, the stylo-hyoid ligaments, and the styloid processes of the temporals representing the complete second arch, while the great horn represents the incomplete third arch. The fourth and fifth arches become greatly reduced, and fuse together, as already indicated, to form the thyroid cartilage of the larynx. The bones of the extremities are all preformed in cartilage, and for the long bones at least two or three centres of ossification are usually present, one being for the shaft and one for each epiphysis, these latter, however, being merely provisions for the growth in length of the bone, and not representing originally distinct bones. In the scapula, however, two primary centres are formed, one for the greater portion of the bone, and one for the coracoid process, which in the lower vertebrates is a distinct bone; and similarly three primary centres are found in each hip-bone, one for the os pubis, one for the ischium, and one for the ilium, each of these being primarily a distinct bone. In the carpus and tarsus certain fusions also occur. Typically, each consists of nine bones arranged in a proximal row of three bones, a clistal row of five bones, and a single bone between the two. The following scheme will show the fusions which have taken place, each comjjosite bone ossifying from two centi-es, the rest from one : Carpus. Tarsus. Scaphoid, Radiale. Semilunar, Intermediate. Cuneiform, Ulnare. (Fused with Scaphoid) Centrale. Trapezium, Carpal I. Trapezoid, " II. Os Magnum, " III. Unciform, | ^1^' ribiale, Astragalus Intermediate, j ° Fibulare, Centrale, Tarsal I., " II., " III., " IV., " v., Calcaneum. Navicular. Internal Cuneiform. Middle Cuneiform. External Cuneiform. Cuboid. The pisiform does not belong to the same category as the other carpal bones, being an ossification in the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, just as the patella is an ossification in the tendon of the quadriceps extensor femoris. Such bones are known as sesamoid bones. The Heart and Blood-vessels. It has already been seen that the formation of the blood-vascular system begins in the area opaca of the blastodermic vesicle, and thence extends toward the embryo, two vessels, the vitelline veins, carrying the blood from the yolk-sac to the embryo. While the embryo is still spread out flat upon the surface of the blastodermic vesicle the splanchnic layer of the mesoderm on each side of the body buds off a small collection of cells (Fig. 106, endocardium) into the space between it and the endoderra ; these early arrange themselves in a tubular form, and become enclosed within a fold of the splanchnic mesoderm. This folds (Fig. 106, myocardium), and tubes so formed are the anlagen of the heart, the two halves of which are at first widely sejiarated; but as the embryo becomes constricted olf from the yolk-sac they are brought nearer together, and finally unite to form a single double-walled tube, the folds becoming the muscular walls of the heart, while the mesencliymatous tubes form its endocardium. The heart, thus formed, is situated in the neck region of the embryo, and has communicating with it behind the vitelline veins, while anteriorly it is continued into the aortic trunk. This simple tubular heart now undergoes a considerable in- crease in length, and, as a result, bends upon itself in an S-shaped manner (Fig. 107), the aortic end being ventral to the venous. The venous end now begins to enlarge, and pouches out into a sac on each side, forming the right and left auricles; andEMBRYOLOGY. 94 from its dorsal wall between the two auricles a vertical partition begins to form, which, growing backward toward the horizontal portion of the heart, would sep- arate the auricles completely were it not that a foramen forms in its upper part MVOCARDIUM- ENDOCARDIUM Fig. 106.—Development of the heart: cross-sections of the cervical region of an embryo; diagrammatic. (Testut.) aha foramen ovaZe), which persists until birth, closing normally shortly thereafter. The partition passes to the left of the opening by which the blood from the vitelline Fig. 107.—Four stages in the development of the heart: front view ; diagrammatic. (Testut.) veins flows into the heart, and, consequently, this opening now commtmicates with the right auricle, the left receiving four small veins which come to it from the lungs. The point of union of the auricular and ventricular regions has in the mean time become considerably constricted, and the auricular septum extends far enoughTHE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS. 95 downward to divide the opening between them into two parts. In the ventricle a crescentic partition develops from the posterior and dorsal walls, and grows upward toward the auricular septum, with the lower border of which it unites, ending, liowever, in a free edge beneath the opening by which the aortic trunk communicates with the ventricle. The aortic trunk has meanwhile flattened dorso-ventrally, and on the inner surfaces of the flat sides two ridges develop, and finally unite, dividing the lumen of the aortic trunk longitudinally into two portions (i^ig- 108). The partition extends down into the ventricle, and unites c Fig. 108.—Development of the aorta and pulmonary artery. (After Born.) with the free edge of the ventricular septum, so that the division of the ventricle becomes complete, and the aortic trunk then separates completely into two tubes, one of which, the aorta, communicates with the left ventricle, while the other, the jjulmonary artery, opens into the right ventricle. The original tubular heart has thus become converted into a four-chambered organ which differs from the adult heart only in the existence of the foramen ovale in the auricular septum. The aortic trunk, prior to its division, in passing forward from the heart gives off from time to time pairs of lateral branches, which pass dorsally in the branchial arches. These are the aortic arches, which, on each side, unite above the branchial clefts to form a longitudinal vessel, and this, passing backward, unites with its fellow of the opposite side to form the dorsal aorta, (Figs. 109, 110). This primitive con- dition is, however, merely transitory, the first arches early disappearing, and then the second, the continuations of the aortic trunk from which these arche.s arise per- sisting, however, to form the e.vtenud carotid arteries, while the branches of the dorsal aorta into which they opened likewise pei'sist to form the internal carotids. The third arches persist, becoming portions of the internal carotids, and forming the connections between those arteries and the external carotids ; but the portions of the branches of the dorsal aorta which intervene between the third and fourth arches • disappear, thus cutting off the direct connections of the internal carotids with the dorsal aorta. The fourth arch of the left side persists in its entirety, forming the arch of the aorta of the adult, and is the only connection between the heart and the dorsal aorta, since the right branch of the dorsal aorta disap- pears completely behind the third arch, the right fourth arch forming part of the right subclavian artery. The fifth arches give rise to an artery on each side, the pulmonary arteries, and the portion of the arch distal to the branch on the right96 EMBRYOLOGY. side disappears, but persists on the left side to form the duQixis artefiosus, uniting the pulmonary artery with the dorsal aorta—a connection functional for the passage of blood up to birth, but aborting later. RIGHT LEFT Pig. 109—Anrtic arches,early arrange- Fig. 110.—Aortic arches, final condition. (After Rathke ) ment. (After Kathke.) Of the venous system it has already been seen that there is a jiair of vitelline veins coming from the yolk-sac and opening into the venous end of the embryonic heart. In addition to these, other veins are develojjed at an early period, which unite together and with the vitelline veins before entering the heart, forming a sinus venosus, which later is taken up into the right auricle. Of these veins there are, first, the umbilical veins, which bring back the blood from the placenta, enter- ing the body of the embryo at the umbilicus (Fig. 111). The left umbilical vein ABC Fig. 111.—Development of the veins: ^.primitive condition, bilateral symmetry; B, formation of portal sy.stem : C, final condition ; diagrammatic. 1, sinus venosus; 2, right ductus Cuvieri; 2', left ductus Cuvieri ;3, right jugular vein ; 3', left jugular vein ; 4, cardinal vein; 4', vena azygos major: 5, vitelline vein; 6, umbilical vein; 6', umbilical vein in cord ; 7, portal vein ; 8, liver; 9, ductus venosus; 10, vena cava inferior; 11, common iliac vein; 12, vena hemiazygos; 13, left brachio-cephalic vein; 14, coronary sinus; 15, veins of lower limbs. Atrophied parts in broken lines. (Testut.) degenerates later almost entirely, but the right passes forward in the ventral mid- line of the abdomen to the under surface of the liver, to which it distributes blood, continuing onward, however, to open into the sinus venosus. During embryonic life this vein increases in size, the vitelline veins, on the other hand, becoming smaller and, forming connections Avith one another, eventually giving rise to the portal vein. After birth, however, as soon as the placental circulation ceases, the97 THE DIAPHRAGM. umbilical vein becomes converted into a solid cord of tissue, which, from the ! transverse fissure of the liver to the umbilicus, is known as the round ligament, while the portion above this becomes the ductus venosus, the uppermost part persisting as the upper part of the vena cava inferior and receiving the hepatic veins. Secondly, there are two other pairs of veins which are entirely confined to the embryo—the jnguJarH, which bring back to tJie heart the blood from the head and upper extremity, and the cardinals, which return the blood from the trunk and lower limb, the jugulars and cardinals of each side of the body uniting together before opening into the sinus venosus to form a transverse branch, the ductus Cuvieri. As the embryo develops the jugulars increase in size more rapidly than I the cardinals, so that the Cuvierian ducts seem to be the continuations of the jugu- lars ; and when the sinus venosus is taken up into the right auricle the two Cuvier- ian ducts and the umbilical vein, which open into the sinus from the right and left sides and from below, respectively, come to have separate openings into the auricle, forming tlie three principal openings found in the adult. I The cardinal veins do not, however, persist until adult life in their original condition, but are to a certain extent replaced by an unpaired venous trunk, the vena cava inferior, which makes its appearance in the tissue between the two primi- tive kidneys, and early unites with the cardinals by means of transverse branches, through which it receives the blood from the kidneys and rapidly increases in I size. In the mean time, a connecting trunk has formed between the left and I right cardinals, and the main mass of the blood from the left lower limb flows over j into the right cardinal, which thus becomes enlarged and forms apparently the 1 continuation of the inferior vena cava. Above, the vena cava opens into the ' umbilical vein, and, on the degeneration of the umbilical after birth, this upper- most part of it persists as the upper end of the vena cava. This vessel is, there- fore, composed of three originally distinct parts : (1) the independent trunk between the primitive kidneys ; (2) the lower end of the right cardinal vein ; and (3) the uppermost part of tlie umljilical. When completely formed it receives the blood from the greater part of the territory originally drained by the cardi- nals, the upper portions of these latter still continuing, however, to receive the blood from the intercostal spaces of the thorax. The lower part of the left car- dinal completely disappears, and it also loses its connection with the left ductus Cuvieri, forming instead a transverse connection with the right cardinal, and i becoming the vena, hemiazygos (azygos minor) of adult anatomy, the upper part of the right cardinal becoming the vena azygos major. In the mean time, a slight change has taken place in the jugulars, a branch [ passing across from the left to the right, and forming the left brachio-cephalic vein of the adult, which receives and passes over to the right jugular all the blood returning by the left jugular. As the result of this the portion of the left jugular between the origin of the left brachio-cephalic vein and the left ductus Cuvieri be- comes greatly reduced, being represented in the adult only by the small oblique vein on the back of the left auricle ; but the left ductus Cuvieri, thus separated from both the jugular and the cardinal vein which originally opened into it, does not degen- erate, since it still receives a large projiortion of the l)lood returning from the tissue of the heart itself through the coronaiy veins, but persists as the coronary sinus. The Diaphragm. Closely associated with the development of the venous trunks is the formation of the diaphragm. At first the body-cavity or coelom is a continuous cavity extend- ing the entire length of the trunk, and even into the head region ; but during ! development the portions in the head and neck disappear, the thoracic and abdominal portions persisting, and being at first continuous. After the heart has formed, howevei', a thick transverse partition, the septum transversum, begins to grow from the ventral and lateral walls of the body toward the sinus venosus, 7EMBRYOLOGY. 98 enclosing tlie venous trunks whifh f)pcn into the sinus. By its formation the thoracic and ahdoniinal portions of the ecelom are ahiiost cdinpletclv sejtarated, the only communication between them l)eing by a pair of small eanal-like ojien- ings, one on each side of the dorsal mesentery ; and, as the lungs develop, they push the walls of the canals in front of them, these walls thus forming tlie pleurjc. At a comparatively early stage of development the pericardial portion of tlie thoracic cavity becomes separated from the pleural portions ; and considerably later the latter become cut oft' from the abdominal cavity, then known as the peritoneal cavity, by the growth forward from tlie dorsal wall of the body of a partition which unites with tlie free edge of the septum ti'ansversum. The Lymphatic Vessels, the Spleen, and the Suprarenal Capsules. Of the devel()2)ment of the fi/iiiph(itic vcssc/s comparatively little i^^ known with certainty, though they seem to be formed similarly to the blood-vessels by a hol- lowing out of strands of mesenchymatous cells. The mode of development of the spleen is also but imperfectly known : it arises as a collection of mesenchyma- tous cells situated between the layers of the dorsal mesentery of the stomach, and early receives a rich supply of blood-vesfeels. The SKprai-cnal boclicn arise as two distinct portions, one of which is derived from a collection of raesenehymatous cells in the vicinity of the inferior vena cava, and gives rise to the cortical portion of the organ ; while the other originates from the anlagen of the abdominal sympathetic ganglia and forms the medullary portion. The significance of these organs is, however, not yet understood. The Muscular System. From the mesothelial ]wrtions of the mesoderm the voluntary muscles and the urino-genital system develop. The voluntary muscles are derived from the mesodermal somites, the greater portions of which become transformed into mus- cle-tissue, and, consequently, the voluntary musculature has primarily a segmental arrangement, consisting of a series of muscle-plates placed one behind the other on each side of the Ijody, and extending forward even into the head-region of the embry o. Each plate is sujiplied by a cranial or a spinal nerve, and has the fibres of which it is composed directed longitudinally, and arising from and inserted into the connective-tissue membranes which separate each pair of plates. This jirimitive arrangement, however, is not long retained, the various muscle-plates fusing together to a greater or less extent, and dividing longitudinally and into various layers, and so producing the complicated muscular system of the adult. The involuntary muscle-tissue which occurs distributed through the walls of the various viscera seems to arise by the difierentiation of mesenchymatous cells, and to have nothing to do with the mesodermal somites. The Excretory and Reproductive Organs. The excretory and reproductive systems arise from certain of the mesodermal somites just where they join the splanchnic and somatic layers, and the first por- tion of the excretory system to ajipear arises from certain somites in the vicinity of the heart, a solid cord of cells growing out from each somite toward the ecto- derm. Each cord later becomes converted into a canal, \\liicli opens at one end into the ca'lom, and is connected at the other end with the ectoderm. This col- lection of tubules is termed tlie proyiephros (Fig. 112), and as it develops there is foi'med from the ectoderm, along the line where the tubules are in contact with it, a longitudinal canal, which later separates from the ectoderm and comes to lie close to the mesoderm (Fig. 104). This is the proDcphric or Wolffian dud, with which the tubules of the pronepliros unite, and which opens posteriorly into the urogenital sinus, to be described later.99 THE EXCRETORY AND REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. The pronephros, however, is but a transitory organ, and it soon degenerates ; a second excretory organ, the mesovephroH or Wolffian body, makes its appearance, its deveh^pnient being similar to that of the pronephros. Its tubules, which open at one end into the ccelom and at the other into the Wolffian duct, reach a consider- AORTA. Fig. 112.—Diagram of the various excretory organs successively developed in the formation of the urinary system. (Testut.) able length, and become much contorted, and a knot of capillary blood-vessels, developing in contact with each tubule, pushes its wall in front of it to form a glomerulus projecting into the tubule. The tubules early lose their connection with the ccelom, and, though at first they present a strictly segmental arrange- ment, this is not adhered to, as secondary and tertiary tubules arise from each mesodermal somite, develop glomeruli, and unite with tlie primary tul)ules to I open into the Wolffian duct. The Wolffian body thus becomes an exceedingly I complicated organ, which, on account of its size, forms a sti'ong projection into I the coelom from the dorsal wall of the body. But even this second kidney does not persist into adult life as a functional excretory organ, but portions of it degenerate, while other parts are adapted to new functions, its excretory functions being assumed by a new kidney, the meta- nephwft. This appears as a tubular outgrowth from the dorsal surface of the lower part of each A^'olffian duct, and from the anterior end of this a number of tubules grow out and push their way into a mass of mesodermal tissue which has concentrated around them. The original outgrowths become the ureters, and tlie tubules, which become very numerous, develop into the uriuai'i/ tubules, in connec- tion with which r/lomerull (Malpigliian corpuscles), derived from the mesodermal mass, develop. The compact organ thus formed becomes the functional kidney of the adult. When the Wolffian bodies are fully developed a cord of cells appears on the lateral surface of each of them, and becomes converted into a canal opening ' behind into the cloaca and in front into the coelom. This is the Mi'dlcrian duct, and by the time it is establisln'd a thickening of the ]ieritoneal cells covering the mesial surfaces of each Wolffian body aj^pears, forming the f/erininal ridges,{rom which the ovaries or testes develop. In the case of the ovaries the mesenchyma-EMBRYOLOGY. 100 tou8 tissue immediately beneath the thickenings develop into the stroma, mto which cords of cells (Fig. 113) grow from the thickening. Certain of the cells GERMINAL PRIMITIVE OVULES EPITHELIUM CORD OF CfLLS IW EPITHELIUM Fif;. 113.—Section of the ovary of a iifw-boni child. (After Waldeyer.) of the cords enlarge greatly and become ova, the remaining cells multiplying rap- idly by division and becoming the follicle-cells. Division of the cells which are to form ova ajipears to cease at aI)out the second year after birth, by which time, therefore, all the ova are differentiated. The /csfcs are at first very similar to the ovaries, and have a similar development, the spermatic cells being derived from the cells of the germinal ridge, and the stroma of the ovary being represented by the tunica albuginea and the trabeculfe of the testis. When mature the ova are extruded from the ovary practically into the peri- toneal cavity, though, as a matter of fact, they are usutdly received at once into funnel-like openings by which the Miillerian ducts communicate with the peri- toneal cavity, these ducts becoming the Fallopkiii tubes of the adult, and their lower ])ortions fusing to form the idcrun and vaf/ina. In the embryo, however, the Miillerian ducts extend much farther forward than the position of the ovary, the ostium of the Fallopian tubes being a new formation and not the original terminal opening, the more anterior portion of each duct being probably repre- sented iji the adult by the In/dafid of llorgof/ui (Fig. 114), a small vesicular structure attached to one of the fimbrise of the secondary opein'ng. While the ovary and the metanephros have been developing the mesoiiephros has been degenerating, and all those portions of the Wolffian ducts which lie anterior to the points of outgrowth of the metanephric ducts disajipear, excejit small portions at each end. The upper end, through mesonephric tubules which communicate with it, comes into intimate relation with the ovary, forming with its tubules the parotmrium, which in the adult lies close to the ovary in the substance of the broad ligament. The lower ends of the Wolffian ducts persist as the caiials of Gartner, situated on each side of the upper end of the vagina, while the meso- iiephros almost completely disappears, its uppermost tubules just mentioned and a small portion of its lower end alone persisting, the latter forming a cyst-like struc- ture lying between the layers of the broad ligament, and termed the paroophoron. It has been seen that the ovaries appear at the level of the mesonephros— that is to say, well forward in the abdominal wall. This position, however, is not retained, but they descend as development proceeds, and finally lie in the pelvic cavity. This descent is partly produced by the contraction of a band of connective tissue which descends from the lower end of the mesonephros to be attached to the skin in the region where the labia majora will later appear, and which is represented by the round ligement of the adult.THE EXCRETORY AND REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. 101 The testes and the parts in their neighborhood undergo changes comparable to those just described for the ovaries, the principal ditference being that the Miillerian ducts degenerate except at their two extremities, the anterior ends per- sisting as a small vesicle attached to each epididymis, and known as the hydatid I of the epididipnis, while the lower ends unite together to form a small sac, which I opens into the prostatic portion of the urethra, and is termed the sinus pocularis. This latter structure from its mode of formation is evidently homologous with the uterus of the female, and has consequently been termed the uterus maseuliims. On the other hand, the Wolffian ducts persist, forming the f(/.so deferetitia, and, as in the female, the tubules of the upper portions of each Wolffian body grow inward toward the testes, with which they unite, their testicular ends forming the tubuli recti and rete testis, while the ends connected with the Wolffian ducts form the epididymis. The remainder of the Wolffian bodies undergoes almost complete degeneration, portions, however, as in the female, persisting, and forming the structures known as the vasa aberrantia of the epididymis and the paradidyniis or organ of Gircddes. FEMALE INDIFFERENT MALE Fig. 114.—Diagram of the development of the genito-urinary apparatus. (Modified from Hnxley.) The round ligament, whose contraction occasions the descent of the ovary into the pelvic cavity, since it is ])rimarily in connection with the mesonephros, has naturally a representative in the male, passing from the lower end of the mesonephros to that region of the skin where the scrotum will develop. By its contraction the descent of the testis is brought about, this organ being drawn first into the cavity of the false pelvis, and then into the inguinal region. Here, in the mean time, on each side, a downgrowth of a finger-like process of peritoneum into the scrotum by the side of the round ligament has occurred, the downgrowth being preceded by prolongations of various muscular layers of the abdominal wall. The testes, continuing their descent, follow these peritoneal downgrowths, and thus come to lie within the scrotum, the peritoneal processes wrapjiing them- selves around them and forming the tunicce vaginales, the neck by which the process communicates with the general peritoneal cavity subsequently closing by the fusion of its walls, while the remaining coverings of the testes are produced by theEMBRYOLOGY. 102 muscle- and fascia-layers of the abdominal walls wliioli ])receded the peritoneal process. Tlie cord, which represents the round ligament, is to be found in the adult in a small cord which passes from the epididymis to the wall of the scrotum, and is termed the gubernamluui. ' ' It has already been stated that the allantois does not entirely degenerate at birth, the middle part of its intra-embryoiiic portion persisting "as the urinary hl(i(](]cr, and the part between this and the umbilicus becomingConvei-ted into a solid cord, known as the nrachm. The part between the bladder and the intes- tine forms what is termed the urocjrnital .sinus, and into it the Miillerian and Wolffian duets open. In the development of the ureters the portions of the Wolffian ducts between their point of origin and the sinus are, in the male, gradually taken up into the sinus, so that the ureters and the vasa defei-entia have sejiarate openings, the former uniting with the base of the bladder, ^^•hile the latter open into the sinus. Since the allantois is connected with the intes- tine, that portion of the digestive tract receives the urinary and genital products as well as the fieces, and tlius receives the name of the cloaca (Fig. 115). At an early period this cloaca becomes di- vided by a partition into a dorsal and a ventral portion; this partition becom- LOWER LIMB CLOACa GLANS PENIS GEN ITAL RIDGE GENITAL FOLD GENITAL FURROW Fig. 115.—External view of the cloaca. (Hertwig.) Fig. 116.—Anlage of the penis or clitoris. (Hertwig.) ing gradually thicker, the dorsal portion, representing the lowermost part of the rectum, becomes sejmrated from the ventral ])ortion, the region intervening between the two being the perineuvi (Fig. 117). In the mean time, however, on each side of the urogenital opening a ridge of skin, the anlage of the scrotum in the male and the labia majora of the female, has appeared, and between the anterior (ventral) ends of the ridges a tubercle develops, along whose posterior surface a groove is formed Avliieh opens proxi- mally into the urogenital sinus. This tubercle is the anlage of the penis or clitoris (Fig. 116), and at this stage there is practically no dili'erence between the male and female genitalia. In the male the lips of the penial groove now meet together and fuse, the groove being thereby converted into a canal continuous with the urogenital sinus, the canal and sinus together constituting what is GLANS PENIS GENITAL RIDGE GENITAL FUhROW GENITAL FOLD PERINEUM Fi<;. 11".—Foriiiiitioii of tlie perineum, separating the alimentary and tlie genito-uriiiary passages. (Hertwig.) ]m... 11'- (Hertw ig.) trig; Ik GLANS PENIS PREPUCE ■GENITAL FOLD GENITAL FURROW SCROTUM RAPHE OF SCROTUM iii vrlupim iit 1.1 uixtlira and scrotum. termed the urethra of the adult. As a result of this closure of the groove the scrotal ridges of either side are brought into contact, and fuse together below the penis to form the adult scrotuvi (Fig. 118). In the female the lips103 ORGANS DERIVED FROM THE ECTODERM. of the groove on the clitoris do not fuse, but become greatly enlarged and form the labia luinora, and the labia majora remain separated by a depression into which the urethra, developed in this ease from the urogenital sinus alone, and the vagina, open (Fig. 119). The final arrangement of the female external 7' i -CLrTORIS -GENITAL BIDGE -GENITAL FOLD VESTI BU LE OF VAGINA PERINEUM .ANUS PRE PUCE CLITORIS LABIUM MAJUS LABIUM MINUS VESTIBULE OF VAGINA PERINEUM Fig. 119.—Development of vayjina. (Hertwig.) Fig. 120.—Development tals. (Hertwig.) il the female external geni- genitalia may thus l)e readily compared with an early stage of development of the male organs, the latter undergoing a greater amount of differentiation than those of the female. ORGANS DERIVED FROM THE ECTODERM. Of the ectoderm the derivatives are the outer layers of the skin and its appendages—hairs, nails, sudoriparous, sebaceous, and mammary glands—and the nervous .system and sense-organs. Of the former a detailed account is unnecessary here, but the nervous system recpiires due consideration. SPONGIOBLAST The Nervous System. As has been seen, the central nervous system makes its appearance as the medullaiy groove. As development proceeds the lips of the groove gradually come together, and eventually fuse, transforming the groove into the medullary canal, broader in front than behind, and running the entire length of the body. The cavity of the canal becomes the ccniral canal of the spinal cord and the ventricles of the brain, while its walls become converted into the various parts of the central nervous system. At first the cells com])osing the walls of the canal are ])rac- tically similar, but later certain of them, the neuroblasts, lying nearer the central canal, begin to proliferate rapidly, forming nerve-evils (Fig. 121), while the • remainder, the spongioblasts, scatter themselves among the nerve-cells and become the neuroglia, some of them eventually coming to line the central canal and forming the epenrhjma (endi/ma). The walls of the canal also become of unequal thick- ness, the portions in the dorsal and ventral mid-lines becoming thin and forming GERMINAL CELLS YOUNG NEUROBLAST- SPONGIOBLAST NEUROBLA Fig. 121.—Development of nerve-cells anrl neuroglia-cclls in wall of the medullary canal. (Testut and His.)EMBR YOLOGY. 104 respectively the roof-plate and the floor-plate, while each of the lateral thicker por- tions becomes divided by a longitudinal groove into a dorsal and a ventral zone. Tile spinal cord develo]>s from the narrower posterior jjortion of the medullary canal, and is formed mainly by the growth of the cells of the ventral zones, the dorsal zones being represented only by the dorsal horns of the gray matter, while the parts contributed by the roof- and floor-plates are comparatively insig- nificant. At an early period a series of constrictions, separated from one another by definite intervals, appear throughout its entire length, and give it the appear- ance of being composed of a series of segments, which are termed neuromeres, and to each of which a pair of nerves corresponds. The existence of the constrictions is, however, transitory, and it is probable that their appearance is related to the occurrence of the mesodermal somites. Up to the end of the third month the cord is practically as long as the spinal canal, but later the canal grows in length more rapidly than the cord, so that the latter becomes relatively shorter, though actually it elongates. As a result of this unequal growth, the nerves which pass out between the lower vertebrse must lengthen, and so the bunch of nerves termed the cauda equina is formed. The motor nerves arise from cells situated in the ventral horn of the cord, and grow out toward the muscles for which they are destined ; the sensory nerves, however, arise from a series of thickenings situated just external to the lips of the medullary groove, which, on the closure of the groove, separate from the ectoderm and sink down into the mesoderm. From each cell of these thick- enings, which are the dorsal root-ganglia, two processes are sent off, one of which penetrates the substance of the cord, while the other extends peripherally. There is thus a fundamental distinction between the motor and the sensory nerve- fibres, the former always growing out from the central system, while the latter arise externally to the cord and brain, and grow inward toward them. In the anterior portion of the medullary canal, from which the brain develops, neuromeres are present as in the cord ; but, in addition, two more distinctly marked con- strictions appear and divide the brain into thi'ce primary vesicles. The roof-plate of the most posterior vesicle forms a thin roof to the cavity of the vesicle (Fig. 122), which broadens out to form the fourth ventricle, a transverse thickening, hoAvever, developing in the more anterior part of the roof, and later enlarging to form the cerebellum. In the posterior part of the vesicle the dorsal and ventral zones become well developed, forming the medulla oblongata, while ante- riorly fibres grow downward on each side from the cerebellimi toward the ventral mid-line, forming the j^oH.s;. In consequence, it is customary to regard the third vesicle as being secondarily divided into two vesicles, the posterior of which is termed the after- brain, or metencephedon (myelencephalon), while the anterior, which includes the cere- bellum and pons, is known as the hind- brain, or epencephalon. The cavity of the middle vesicle does not increase in size as rapidly as the others, but assumes the form of a canal, and is termed the iter or aqueduct. The roof-plate retains its primitive slight development, the dorsal zones, however, giving rise to four well-marked thickenings, the corpora Fig. 122.—Diagram of the brain at an early stage of development; /, ravity of primary pros- encephalon ; //, cavity of mesencephalon ; III, cavity of epencephalon; AU, auditory pit; CC, central canal of spinal cord; CE, cerebellum; CR, crura cerebri and quadrigemina; CT', cere- bral vesicle; FO, foramen of Monro; MO, me- dulla oblongata; OL, olfactory lobe; OPT. V., optic vesicle; SP, spinal cord; TH, thalamus opticus. (Martin.)THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 105 MESENCEPHALON CHOROID PLEXUS FORAMEN OF MONRO CAUDATE NUCLEUS CEREBELLUM FOURTH VENTRICLE ILONGATA Fig. 123—Brain vifw. (Mihalc'ovics.) quadrigcmina, while the ventral zones become modified to form the critrn cerebri. To this differentiated middle vesicle is given the name of the mid-brain, or mesen- cephalon (Fig. 123). The anterior vesicle under- goes greater changes than either of the others. First, from the lower part of its lateral walls two pouches grow out, finally come into contact with the ecto- derm of the sides of the head, and form the optic vesicle (Fig. 122), and later a constriction of the original wall of the vesicle appears, the vesicle thus becom- ing divided into two portions, the anterior of which, growing most rapidly on each side of the median line, eventu- ally gives rise to the cerebral hemispheres, which are together termed the fore- brain, or prosf/ic<?y>i/)afoH, while the median portion, together with the entire posterior portion of the original vesicle, forms the 'tween-brain, or thalavien- cephalon, which contains the third ■ventricle. The anterior wall of the third ventricle is evidently, since the hemispheres are lateral outgrowths, the front wall of the primitive brain, and it constitutes the lamina terminedis of the adult. The greater portion of the roof of the third ventricle becomes reduced to a thin layer of cells, which, together with the pia, which lies immediately above it, forms the velum interposituni, while more poste- riorly an evagination of the roof produces a stalk surmounted by a solid oval body, the epiphysis, or pineal body, which comparative anatomy shows to be the rudiment of an unpaired, median eye. In the floor of the ventricle there is to be found, in addition to the optic stalks, a hollow,funnel-like downgrowth, the infundibulum, which ends in a solid body, the hi/popJii/si.^, or pituitary body, formed partly by a dilatation of the extremity of the infundibulum, and partly by a mass of tissue which arises as an upgrowth from the roof of the month, from which it becomes separated ; and lastly, in each of the lateral walls of the ven- tricle there is to be found an oval thickening, the opdic tJiedainus (Fig. 122), developed from the dorsal zone, the subthalamic tissues being the product of the ventral zones. Since the cerebral hemispheres develop as lateral enlargements of the anterior of the two secondary portions of the vesicle, and since this portion contains a cavity (a part of the third ventricle), it is clear that each hemisphere will contain a lateral prolongation of this cavity, a ledered ventricle, and that each lateral ven- tricle will communicate with the sides of the anterior end of the third ventricle, this communication being the foramen of Monro. The hemispheres are, strictly speaking, excessive developments of the dorsal zones of the anterior vesicle, and there occurs in the wall of each of them a thickening, termed the corjms striatum, which is continuous behind with the optic thalamus. As the hemispheres continue to develop they ]:)roject in front of the lamina terminalis and overlap behind the roof and sides of the 'tween- and mid-brains ; and the lateral ventricles, increas- ing in ^i'lze pari passu, with the growth of the hemispheres, become prolonged into anterior, po.sterior, and lateral horns. Into the outer layers of the hemispheres an immigration of cells occurs, the cerebral cortex being thus formed, and during the earlier months of development division of these cells occurs with considerable rapidity, gradually becoming rarer, however, until some time before birth, when it completely ceases, there being, in all probability, no normal increase in the number of cells forming the cerebral cortex after birth. At about the fourth week of development a finger-like dilatation forms on the anterior part of the under surface of each cerebral hemisphere, a prolongation from the lateral ventricle of the same side passing into it. Anteriorly, the dila-EMBRYOLOGY. 106 CEREBELLUM OLFACTORY LOBE. Fig. 124.—Brain of six-months' human embryo, natural size. (Kollikcr.) tations fuse with tlie olfactory ganglia, to wliieh the olfactory nerves pass from the mucous membrane of the nasal cavity, and they form the o/factori/ lohcK, or rhinencqj/ialoii, the cavities which they contain becoming obliterated before adult life is attained. Up to the fifth month of development the surface of the hemisjiheres is smooth, but at this time a depression appears at the side of each hemisphere (Fig. 124) involving that jiortion of the cortex which lies immediately external to the corpus striatum ; this is the ^-r-^m-n,^^^ ■^yliii^i^^ depression. Later the lips of the depression grow toward each other, the upper one growing more rapidly and forming a distinct fold, the operculum, which covers in the floor of the de])ression. This covered portion of the cortex is the insuJa of descriptive anatomy, the fissure be- tween the edge of the operculum and the lower lip of the depression being the tSy/rian Jissure. In the subse- quent months of development addi- tional fissures appear, some of which are of sufficient depth to form eleva- tions projecting into the cavities of the lateral ventricles, the hippoeampm of the middle horn and the calcar of the posterior horn being formed in this manner. The lamina terminalis, as has been seen, forms the front wall of the third ventricle, and accordingly connects the two cerebral liemispheres in front. Its lower part remains relatively thin, but above it becomes much thickened from before backward, the thickening liaving a triangular shape. In the thickening a slit-like cavity appears, and through that portion of the thickening which forms the roof of the cavity nerve-fibres pass across from the cortex of each cerebral hemisphere to that of the other, forming the corpus cal/osum, while in the floor of the cavity longitudinal fibres develop, forming the pillars of the fornix. The cavity itself is the so-called fffh veiifriclc, its lateral walls l)cing the sejjfum Juci- (lam, and it is evident from its mode of development that it cannot be considered homologous with the other ventricles of the brain. One other set of structures require notice here, though they are not actual constituents of the central nervous system. These are the choroid plexuses, which consist of collections of blood-vessels developed in the pia over certain ])ortions of the brain where the walls are exceedingly thin—as, for instance, over tlie roof of the third and fourth ventricles and along the floor of the lateral ven- tricles. The vessels push these thin memliranes in front of them into the interior of the brain, and thus come to lie apparently in the interior of the ventricles, though in reality they are separated from them by the prolongation of the roof or floor which they carry in front of them. The Sympathetic System.—The sympathetic ganglia have usually been regarded as formed l)v a ]iroliferation of cells from the anlagen of the dorsal root-ganglia, and as l)eing, therefore, of ectodermal origin. More recent observations tend to assign them to the mesenchyme, their first indication being found in a cord of cells in the mesenchyme just external to the dorsal aorta. Tlie history of the .system needs further study, however, before definite statements can be made concerning it. The Olfactory, Gustatory, and Tactile Organs.—Of the organs of special sense the tactile and gustatory are not as yet thoroughly understood embryologically. The olfiictorv organ a];)pears as two circular thickenings of the ectoderm, one on each side of the fronto-nasal pi'ocess, just in front of the mouth, and these, sinking beneath the surfoce, come to form the floor of a pair of depressions (Fig. 99)THE EYE. 107 whose lips, gradually ap])r()aehino;, finally fuse, except below, to form a pair of cavi- ties, the openinjis into which are the anterior narc>i. These at first coniniunicate with the mouth, but become separated from it by the union of the two maxillary processes, a separation further perfected by the formation of the hard palate. The Eye.—The first indications of the eye are a pair of hollow outgrowths from tiie anterior vesicle of the brain (Fig. 122), and these take the form of vesicles in contact with the ectoderm externally and united to the 'tween-brain by narrow optic stalks. Tliat portion of the wall of each vesicle which is in contact with the ectoderm becomes invaginated, and the vesicle thus becomes converted into a double-walled cup, from whose walls the retina is formed. The invagination proceeds more rapidly on the under side of the vesicle, and is con- tinued backward some distance on the optic stalk, which thus becomes grooved on its under surface, the optic cup being imperfect along a narrow line on its under surface, this opening being the ehoroidalfissure (Fig. 125). MHien the retina is estab- FlG. 125.—Diagrams of the formation of tlie optic cup and choroidal Assure. lished nerve-fibres grow from its cells toward the brain, choosing the optic stalk as the path of least resistance, and thus converting it into the solid optic nerve. That portion of the surface ectoderm with which the optic vesicle came in contact early begins to thicken, and later becomes invag- inated, pressing upon the wall of the vesicle. This ecto- derm gradually separates from the surface and forms a spherical, hollow structure, lying in the mouth of the optic cup; it is the anlage of the lens (Fig. 12(3). Later, the cells of its anterior wall flatten down to form the epithelium of the lens (Fig. 127), while those of the posterior wall become much elongated, and are converted into fibres running in various directions and completely filling the original cavity. At first the lens is in close contact with the surface ectoderm; but later mesenchymal tissue pushes in between it and the ectoderm, forming a layer which becomes converted into the cornea (Fig. 127), the ectoderm external to it forming the conjunc- tiva. At the same time a concentration of mesenchyme takes place all around the optic cup to form the sclerotic and choroid coats of the eyeball, and between the outer surface of the lens and the cornea fluid collects, forming the aqueous humor. The vitreous body is formed by the migration of mesenchyme into the interior of the optic cup through the choroid fissure, and is at first richly supplied with blood, the artery bringing it running along the groove on the under surface of the optic stalk, and so entering the choroid fissure. In the later Fi(i. 12fi.— Semi-diagram of the secondary optic vesicle and the developing lens: AB, layer which becomes pigmentary reti- nal layer; C, posterior chamber, to be occupied by vitreous; If, remnant of cavity of primary optic vesicle; IB, layer which becomes greater part of retina; L, lens, as a cup open on exte- 7'ior ; M, M, M, mesoderm ; M', M', points from which meso- derm grows in to form iris and body of cornea; -f, place at which the primary optic vesicle has been doubled back on itself; *, point of invagination of ecto- derm to form lens. (Wieder- slieim.)108 EMBRYOLOGY. development the choroid fissure closes completely, and the lips of the groove on the stalk also meet and close, the artery thus becoming enclosed by the stalk, and forming the arteria centralis retime of the adult. Later on, the mesenchyme in OF OPTIC CUP Fig. 127.—Horizontal section of the developing eye. (After KoUiker.) the interior of the optic cup becomes converted into the peculiar gelatinous I tissue of which the vitreous is composed, and its blood-supply becomes cut ofP, the only trace of the existence of the artery in front of the retina being the space originally occu])ied l)y the artery, persisting as a canal traversing the centre of the vitreous, and known as the hyaloid canal. AVhen the blood-supply of the vitreous is at its highest development it extends as far forward as the lens, which it surrounds with a vascular capsule, which later normally disappears completely. Of the structures accessory to the eye, the eyelids develo]) as folds of skin, which grow together over the eye, and remain fused together until shortly before birth. The lachrymal f/lands are formed as solid ingrowths (later becoming hol- low) from the conjTinctiva, just at the point where the u]iper-eyelid folds arise, , while the lacliri/rnal duct is developed as a thickening of the ectoderm, which forms the floor of the groove found at an early stage between the fronto-nasal and the maxillaiy processes. This thickening later becomes hollowed out, and the lips of the groove meet over the canal so formed, completely enclosing it, and, as the nasal cavity differentiates, the lower end of the duct comes to commu- nicate with it. The Auditory Organ.—The membranous labyrinth or inner ear is the first por- tion of the auditory f)rgan to develo]), ap])earing as a circular depression of the ectoderm over the first visceral cleft (Fig. 122). This auditory pit deepens, sinking down into the subjacent mesenchyme, its floor at the same time thicken- ing, and it eventually becomes constricted off from the ectoderm as a completely closed sac, a small process from one side of this representing the remains of its connection with the surface, and forming the ductus endolymphaticus. From the ventral wall of the sac a tubular outgrowth forms, which is the anlage of the cochlea, and in the angle between this and the sac proper is to be found the auditory ganglion, which had previously formed as a thickening of the ectoderm309 THE AUDITORY ORGAN. WALL OF AFTER-BRAIN HECESSUS LABYRINTH I VESICLE OF LABYRINTH GANGLION COCHLEARE COCHLEAR PORTION OF LABYRINTH near the auditory pit, and had migrated into the subjacent mesenchyme. A con- striction now begins to form in the inner wall of the sac (Fig. 129), dividing it into an upper and a lower portion ; and from the upper portion two flat hollow disc- like outgrowths develop, one of which lies in a horizontal plane, while the other is directed vertically, but is bent so that the anterior half of it lies al- most at right angles with the posterior. These are the anlagen of the semicir- cular canals (Fig. 130), which are finally formed from the edges of the discs, the central ptn-tion of the horizontal disc and of each half of the vertical one disap- pearing, so that three canals are formed, each opening at both extremities into the upper portion of the auditory sac. At one end of each canal a widening occurs, and, from the mode of devel- opment just outlined, it will be seen that the two vertical canals will be united together at one end to form a common canal before opening into the sac (Fig. 131). The constriction of the wall of the sac deepens gradually, until finally the up]ier portion, or ufriculus, communicates witji the lower portion, or sacciiliis, only b_y a slender canal, which represents that portion of the original sac with which the ductus endolymphaticus communicates. While these processes have been going on, a second constriction has formed between tlie cochlear anlage and the sacculus, whereby the connection of these two parts is also reduced to a slender canal, the canalis reuniens. In correspondence with this division of the original sac a division of the auditory ganglion also occurs, one portion of it, the vestibular Fig. 128.—Section through the auditory vesicle of a sheep embryo. (Hertwig, after Boettcher.) AUDITORY NERVE VERTICAL SEMI- CIRCULAR CANAL GANGLION COCHLEARE COCHLEA AFTER-BRAIN RECESSUS LABYRINTHI VERTICAL SEMI- CIRCULAR CANAL FURROW BETWEEN UTRICULAR AND SACCULAR PORTIONS OF LABYRINTH GANGLION COCHLEARE COCHLEA Fig. 129.—Section through the auditory vesicle of sheep embryo, somewhat older than that in Fig. 128. (Hertwig, after Boettcher.) ganglion, being in relation to the sensory epithelium of the utriculus, sacculus, and semicircular canals, while the other is drawn out into an elongated band, the spiral or cochlear ganglion, which follows the coils into which the cochlea becomes thrown, and stands in relation to the organ of Corti, which develops from the cochlear epithelium. In the mean time, a condensation of the mesenchyme surrounding each audi-EMBRYOLOGY. 110 DUCTUS ENDOLYM- PHATICUS. ANT, VERTICAL SEMICIR. CANAL HORrZONTAL SEMICIR. CANAL. UTRICULUS POST. VERTICAL /SEMICIR. CANAL. tory sac has been taking place, and the portions of the tissue inimediatelv in contact with the walls of the sac become converted into fibrous connective tissue, and so strengtlion the walls of the mem- branous ear, while the outermost portions become converted into cartilage, and later into bone, forming the periotic capsule, in whose walls, however, three membra- nous areas are left, one of these being where a canal, the ductus peri/i/mphati- ms, leads from the perilymphatic space to the surface of the bone. Between the inner wall of the cajisule (which is com- posed of dense bone, and forms what is termed the osseous lahi/finfli) and the connective tissue a layer of the mesen- chyme is left in the form of a loose connective tissue, which subsequently degenerates, leaving a space, which be- comes filled with fiuid, around the mem- branous ear. This is the perilympliatic space, which, in the cochlea, is separated into two parts by the membranous cochlea, being attached on either side to its wall, so that a section of any coil of the cochlea will show the membranous cochlea, known in anatomy as the scala meeliei, with a perilymphatic space above it, the sccihi vestibuli, and another below it, the scala tymj^ani, these two spaces communicating, however, at the apex of the cochlea. The middle ear is the remains of the first visceral cleft, the groove on the wall of the pharynx which represents the cleft becoming converted into a canal SACCULUS COCHLEA Fig. ISO.—Moflcl nt internal ear of human em brvo of about live weeks. (C. S. Minot, after W His, Jr.) by the fusion of its lijjs, the upper end of this canal being enlarged to form a cavity, the fympemic cavity, while the rest of it forms the Eustachian caned, which opens below into the pharynx. The tymjianic cavity is, however, up to birth exceedingly narrow, practically merely a slit, its walls, beneath the mucous mem- brane lining it, being largely composed of a loose gelatinous tissue, in which lie imbedded three small bones, the nud/ots, stapes, and incus. The up]ier end of Meckel's cartilage, which develops, as lias been seen, in the first branchial arch, separates from the lower portion, and forms two small bones, which are imbedded in the front wall of the tympanum, and are the malleus and incus ; while the stapes seems to be produced by the fusion of two distinct parts. Its flat portion,THE AUDITORY ORGAN. Ill which rests in one of the tliree unossitied spots of the osseous capsule of the inter- nal ear, the foramen ovale, seems to be really the portion of the wall of the cap- sule which should fill tliis foramen, the mesenchyme immediately around it having remained membranous, wliile its arch is the ossified upper end of tlie cartihige of the second branchial arch. These bones are at first imbedded in the gelatinous tissue of the wall of the tympanic cavity. After birth, air is taken into this cavity through the Eustachian tube, and the cavity enlarges, pressing aside the gelati- nous tissue and surrounding bones, which thus form a chain extending from tlie tympanic membrane to the foramen ovale, and apparently passing through the middle of the tympanic cavity, though in reality they are enclosed by the mucous membrane which lines the cavity. Two of the three unossified spaces in the wall of the osseous capsule of the inner ear have been accounted for in the ductus perilymphaticns and the foramen ovale ; the third opening is the foramen rofimdiun, which is closed by a membrane on which the scala tympani abuts. The outer wall of the tympanic cavity is formed by the tympanic membrane, and is at first thick with the gelatinous tissue which encloses the auditory ossicles, it being only after birth that it is reduced to the thin membrane found in the adult. It is formed partly by the partition between the external and internal grooves of the first branchial cleft, and partly by the upper ends of the first and second l)ranchial arches. Just as the inner groove of the first branchial cleft forms the Eustachian tube and tympanum, so the upper end of the outer groove of the same cleft forms the outer ear, the pinna developing from elevations ap]iearing on the first and second visceral arches in the vicinity of the persistent part of the groove.tTHE BONES. By GEORGE WOOLSEY. MB M mm THE adult human skeleton consists of a number^ of honcn, Avith a small amount of cartilage in some parts, where they are joined or articulated with one another. The bones, as they are generally studied after maceration and drying, are composed of mineral or earthy salts, principally phosj^hate and carbonate of lirae.^ The soft organic parts, of which a prepared bone is deprived, consist partly of the fibrous and vascular periodeinii, which covers the surface and is continuous with the connecting liga- ments, and the medulla or marrow, which fills thi' internal cavities. The m&in functions of bones are tf) afford a solid frame- work, to support softer parts, to protect delicate organs, and to serve for the attachment and leverage of muscles which produce the different movements. To serve these ditFerent purposes bones must (lifter in tlieir ouhvard form, according to which we distinguish—(1) Love/ hones, con- sisting of a shaft or diaphysis and two expanded extremi- ties or epiphyses, as in the limbs. They afford support and leverage for motion, and are usually somewhat curved in one or two directions, thus securing greater strength and elasticity ; (2) Flett hones, as in the pelvis, scapula, and the roof of the skull, affording protection and support to the contained parts, and also muscular attachment; (3) Short bones, as in the wrist and ankle, where strength com- bined with free motion is required; (4) Irregular or mixed hones, like the vertebrpe and many of the bones of the skull. Internal Arrangement.—On longitudinal section of a long bone (Fig. 132) notice that there is an outer layer of hard, compact suhsteuice, varying in thickness and enclosing 'a central or medullary cavity, in the shaft of the bone, ajid porous, s^^ongy QY cancellous bony tissue at the extremities. In the recent state the medullary cavity is filled with yel- low or fatty marrow, and the cavities of the cancellous [tissue with red marrow. Short, flat, and irregular bones have an outer layer of comjiact substance, enclosing can- cellous tissue containing red marrow. The cancellous tissue at the ends of long bones and in other bones bearing- pressure is so arranged that its bony lamelhe are ]n-incipally directed in the lines of pressure or of muscuilar tension. The porosity or hoUowness of bones serves to combine requisite size and strengtli with lightness. Development of Bones.—In the early end^ryo the bones are preformed either ' Exclusive of the ossicles of the ears, the teeth, and the Wormian bones, there are 200 bones, of vhich 64 are in the upper extremity, 62 in the lower, and 74 in the trunk, distributed as follows: the vertebral column 26, the skull 22, the ribs and sternum 25, and the hyoid bone 1. ^ Eespectively 51 per cent, and 11 per cent, of the solids of fresh bone. S 113 my Fig. 132.—The longitudi- nal section of a long bone.114 THE BONES. in membrane or, in the majority of cases, in cartilage covered by membrane, so that all are possessed of membranes, and ossification beneath membrane is found in all, and exclusively in some.^ One or more original or primary centres appear for each bone, from which ossification proceeds, forming the diajj/ii/sis (" between- growth ") or body. After a varying time one or several nrvondary or tertiary centres may appear, which form the epiphyses (" upon-growth "), united to the dia- physis for some time by cartilage. Some of these form the extremities of long bones, others projecting processes like the acromion of the scapula or the tro- chanters of the feraur.^ Bone formed in cartilage is not adapted to be permanent, for the cartilage is non-vascular, and, further, it is not true l)one, but a mere calcification. It is therefore resorbed and replaced by vascular bone from an ossific centre beneath the membrane. In the long bones the first or pi-imary centre in the shaft appears before birth.^ Later, one or more secondary centres appear at either end, all but three* after birth. The bone-centres in the shaft and extremities of long bones are separated from one another by a layer of cartilage (epiphyseal cartilage), which continues to grow at the same time that the bone-centres on either side grow into it. By this means the bone is enabled to grow in length until first one, and, when growth is completed, finally both, cartilages cease to grow, and the shaft and extremities unite by ossification of the intervening layer of cartilage. Such bones grow in diameter by the deposit of bone beneath the periosteum. Bones in which ossification is begun and completed in membrane, as in the vault of the skull, are enabled to increase in size by the growth of the membrane in the sutures separating them, until they have attained their full size, when this growth stops. Until the epiphyseal cartilage has ossified separation without bony fracture may occur here. The date of this ossification is therefore of importance in some cases. The bony union of shaft and extremities takes place according to the fol- lowing rules : 1. The extremity whose ossific centre is the first to appear is the last to unite with the shaft. Exception : the lower end of the fibula, but the upper end is vestigial. 2. The extremity toward which runs the nutrient artery is the first to unite. 3. The nutrient arteries run toward the elbow and away from the knee— i. e., down hill—if elbow and knee both be flexed. 4. Union of the epiphyses and diaphyses of long bones occurs from the six- teenth to the twenty-second year (occasionally twenty-fifth year, tibia), andi earlier in the upper than in the lower extremity. 5. When two or more centres of ossification occur in an epiphysis, these unite' together before the epiphysis unites with the diaphysis or shaft. Many bones of the skull are composite, or made up of two or more elements,il separate in their embryonic development, in young bones, and in the skulls of other vertebrates. Tiie study of these details and the comparison of the human anatomy with* that of other vertebrates, on the basis of their development, constitute the study of morphology, in which the most recent and interesting advances in anatom} have been made. Descriptions of Bones.—The student of osteology shoidd always have the actua bones in his hand as he follows their descriptions, remembering that the lattei represent the average of bones, and that it is very rare to meet with a bone ii which every detail corresponds to the descrijition. 1 Ossification commencing in membrane may invade and replace cartilage, as in the clavicle. ^ Prominent jirojections not developed from indeyiendent centres are called apophj'ses. ^ Many primary centres of ossification appear after birtli, as in the carpal bones. ^ The adjoining ends of the femnr and tibia, and sometimes the head of the humerus. '115 THE 8PIN.E. The surface of young bones is comparatively smooth. The rough lines and ridges on adult bones are due to ossification at the attachment of muscles. Any marked bony prominence may be called a process or apophysis ("out-growth") ; if blunt, a tnbcj'osifi/ when large, a tubercle when small ; if sharp, a spine or spinous process; if long, a line or ridge, when narrow, a crest, when broader; if articular, a comhile (" knuckle"), or a head when supported on a constricted part or nech. A depression or hollow sjiace in or upon a bone or between several bones is sometimes called a fossa (" ditch "). A glenoid (" cavity-like ") fossa refers to a shallow articular depression, a cotyloid{^^ cu])-like") /o.S'S« to a deeper one. Sinus and antrum are terms applied to cavities within certain bones. A fissure is a narrow slit; a foramen a short ojiening ; a carnal or meatus, a longer, tube-like passage-way. Other terms used require no explanation. In describing the different aspects of a bone or other anatomical part the body is supposed to be in the erect position. A surfiice, extremity, or other part directed toward the head is called superior ; toward the feet, inferior ; toward the ! front, ventrcd or anterior; toward the back, dorsal or posterior. That as])ect directed toward the median, vertical, antero-postei'ior plane of the body is called internal or mesial; that away from the same plane, external or lateral. THE SPINE. I The spine, or vertebral column, is composed of 26 superimposed bones called j t)erfe6ra; (" capable of turning"). The name .s;y;//(f is derived from the series of spines or spinous processes which are the most obvious portions of the column of I bones in the undissected body. Of these the upj^er 24 are true or movable vertebra', and are divided from above downward into 7 cervical, 12 thoracic, and 5 lumbar. Of the two lower composite bones comprising the false vertebra;, the upper one, or sncmm, is formed by the fusion of 5 vertebra^ and the lower one, or coccyx, of 4 ankylosed, vestigial, terminal vertebra?, all separate in early life. A typical vertebra consists of a body or centrum in front, with a neural arch behind, which completes the vertebral foramen, in the series of which the spinal I cord and its membranes are lodged and protected. The disc-like body supports and bears the weight of the head and truidv. Its superior and inferior surfaces are flattened or slightly concave, and rough for the connecting intervertebral discs. The circumference is concave vertically, convex \ horizontally, but behind it is concave in both directions, where it bounds the I foramen and presents large foramina for veins. j The neural arch is formed of two symmetrical halves, and consists of two j pedicles and two lamina?, supporting seven processes—tour articular, two trans- j verse, and one spinous. The pedicles ("little feet"), or ventral parts of the arch, consist of two nai"- row, thick piers of bone, projecting horizontally back from the up})er jiart of the dorsal and external aspect of the body. Above and below the pedicles are the vertebrcd notches, Avhich, Avith notches of adjacent vertebrte, form the intervertebral foramina for the passage of the s])inal nerves and vessels. The lamina', broad and flat, comjilete the arch by fusing together in the median j line behind. Tlieir upper borders and lower anterior parts are rough for the attachment of the ligamenta subflava. The spinous process projects backward in the median line from the junction of the laminae, and serves for the attachment of muscles and ligaments. The transverse jivocesses project outward from the junction of the pedicles and laminae on each side. I The articular jyt'ocesses present an up]ier and a lower jjair, extending upward and downward from the roots of the transverse processes, for articulation with the pairs above and below. The articular surfaces of the upper and lower pairs look in the opposite direction.116 THE BONES. THE CERVICAL GROUP. The tifpical cervical verfehrcv (from tlie third to the sixtli, inclusive) (Fig. 133) are especially characterized by the foramina in the transverse processes. The centnuii, or bodt/, is small, oval, and COSTO-TRANS- VERSE FORAMEN COSTAL PROCESS. TRANSVERSE PROCESS. Fig. 133.—Cervical vertebra, viewed from above (Testut.) transversely elonijated. Its upper sur- face is concave transversely, due to the elevation of its lateral margins into lips which articulate with the roimded lateral margins of the lower surface of the vertebra above. The lower ventral margin projects downward, so as to overlap the rounded ventral margin of the upjier surface of the vertelira below. The depth of the body is equal in front and l)eliind. The pedicles are directed obliquely outward and backward from about midway between the upper and lower borders of the body. The lamince are long, nari^ow, and more or less flattened from above downward. The sjnnous process is short, bifid at the extremity, and nearly horizontal. The trcmsrerse processes, directed outward and forward, are seen to be rather short, and their bifid extremities present ventral and dorsal tubercles. Its base is perforated hv the costo-transverse foramen, which transmits the vertebral artery and vein in the upper six vertebraj, and which divides the base into two roots. The dorsal root springs from the junction of the pedicles and laminje, like the thoracic trans- verse processes ; the ventral root springs from the side of the body, correspond- ing in position to the vertebi'al end of a rib. It is a vestigial rib (costa), and is called the costal process. The superior articular processes look upward and some- what backward, the inferior downward and somewhat forward. The foramen is triangular, and larger than in the other regions. Peculiar Cervical Vertebrae.— These are the first, second, and seventh. The peculiarities of the first and second are such as to allow the freest movement of the head on the spinal column which is consistent with the safety of the spinal cord. The atlas or first cervical vertebra (Fig. 134) lacks a Ixxly and spinous process, and forms a ring consisting of two arcJies, ventral and dorsal, connecting two lateral masses. The hocli/ has become separated from the atlas and ankylosed to the axis as the odontoid process. The ventrcd arch, one-fifth of the ring, pre- sents in the median line in front a small tubercle for muscular and ligamentous attachment, and behind a round facet for articulation with the odontoid ])rocess. The dorsal arch, two-fifths of the ring, has a median tubercle behind, the i-iidi- ment of a spinous process, which, if present, would interfere with the rotation between the atlas and axis. On its upper surface, at the junction with the lateral mass, is a deep groove, sometimes a foramen, for the passage of the vertebral artery and the first spinal nerve. The groove or notch on the under surface, for : the second spinal nerve, is also behind the articular process, while the lower nerves pass out in front of the articular processes. The lateral masses present aliove two oval, elongated, articular surfaces looking upward and inward, and diverging behind. These articulate with the condyles of the occipital l)()ne and permit the nodding movements of the head. Transverse grooves may divide these surfaces COSTO-TRANS VERSE FORAME VENTRAL ARCH. TRANSVERSE PROCESS. Fig. 134.—The atlas, viewed from above. (Testut.)THE THORACIC GROUP. 117 in two or give them a Ividney-shaped outline. The inferior articular processes, or the facets on the under surface of the lateral masses, are nearly flat and circular, looking downward and slightly inward. Tlieir articulation with the axis permits the rotatory movements of the head. On the inner surface of each lateral mass, between the two articular processes, is a tubercle for the transverse ligament, which divides the interior of the ring into a smaller ventral segment for the odontoid process and a larger dorsal segment, the spinal foramen, for the spinal cord. The transverse processes are long, serve for the leverage of the rotator muscles of the head, and are to be felt below the mastoid process of the temporal bone. The foramen in them is large, their costal processes are slender, and their extremities broad and not bifid. The axis or second vertebra {rertehra dentafa, " toothed vertebra") (Figs. 135, 136) has a large, strong body, surmounted by the odontoid (" tooth-like") process, ODONTOID PROCESS. ARTICULAR SURFACE FOR VENTRAL ~ ARCH OF ATLAS. ODONTOID PROCESS Fig. 135. TRANSVERSE PROCESS. INFERIOR ARTICU- LAR PROCESS. -The axis, front view. (Testut.) ARTICULAR FACET FOR VENTRAL ARCH OF ATLAS. SPINOUS PROCESS TRANSVERSE PROCESS. Fig. 136.—Tlie axis, its right side. (Testut.) on which as a pivot the atlas rotates, carrying with it the head. This process has in front a smooth surface for articulation with tlie atlas, and liehind, at a slightly lower level, a smooth groove, which forms a constriction, the neck, and receives the transverse ligament. The lower surface of the body is like that of the typical cervical vertebra, excejjt that the overlapping lip is more prominent. In front the body presents a vertical median ridge and two lateral depressions. The pedicles are stout, and partly on them, partly on the body, I'est the oval superior articular sui'faces, close to the base of the odontoid pi'ocess, and directed upward and slightly outward. The weight of the head is transmitted to these surfaces through the lateral masses of the atlas, and from them it passes largely to the body and less to the inferior articular jirocesses of the axis through a strong arch, the piers of which are the body and inferior articular processes. From this point down the weight is borne mostly by the bodies. The inferior articular processes resemble those below in form, position, and direction. The spinous process is strong, deeply bifid, and grooved below. It attaches muscles which rotate the head. The transverse processes are short. The costal processes are [ thick at their bases, and the anterior tubercles are very rudimentary. The ■ foramina for the vertebral arteries are directed obliquely upward and outward toward those in the atlas. The seventh cervical vertebra is called the vertebra j:)romiiie)»<, from the length of its spinous process, which is a landmark readily felt beneath the skin. This is not bifid, and it attaches the liganientum nuchte. Tlie costal jjrocesses and their anterior tubercles are small, but sometimes are larger and segmented off as cervical ribs. The costo-transverse foramen is small. The transverse processes are large. The spinous process of the .s/./VA cervieed vertebra is occasionally so long as to be mistaken for that of the seventh, and the anterior tubercle of its transverse process is called the carotid tubercle, as against it the carotid artery may be compressed. THE THORACIC GROUP. The thoracic vertebrm (Figs. 137-139) are typically characterized by the pres- ence of articular facets on the bodies and transverse processes, for articulation with the ribs which they support. The disc-like body, or centrum, is oval orTHE BONES. 118 heart-shaped, only sliglitly wider transversely than from before backward, and deeper behind tlian in front. Where the body joins tlie arch two derai-facets are fonnd (Ml either side, one at tlie npper and one at the hjwer border. Eacli laeet with the contignous one on the adjacent vertebra completes a cavity for the head of a rib. The lower voiebral notches are deeper than the npper. Each broatl, flat pair of the lamince is imbricated, or sloped, over the pair below, like the tiles Fig. 137.—a thoracic vertebra, upper surface. (Tcstut.) of a roof. The spinous process is long and three-sided, and projects considerably downward, especially in the middle of the series. The trdnsverxe processes project ontward and slightly backward. The oval facets on the front of their tips are for articnlation with the tnbercles of the ribs. The rib in sitn forms with this process a costo-transverse foramen. Of the two pairs of articular processes, the articnlar Fio. 138.—Thoracic vertebra, seen from the left side. Fig. 139.—Thoracic vertebra, viewed from (Testut.) behind. (Testut.) surfaces of the upper pair look backwai'd and slightly ontward and upward, those of the lower pair forward and slightly inward and downward. The/o/'amen is round, and not as large as in the cervical or lumbar region. Peculiar Thoracic Vertebrae.—These are the first, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth. The first is a transitional vertebra, resembling the lower cervical vertebrae, especially on its npper surface. The body is elongated transversely, and lipped laterally above. There are entire facets above for the first pair of ribs, and demi- facets below for the second pair. The su])erior articular processes have largely an upward direction. The spinous ])rocess is long, nearly horizontal, and even more prominent than that of the vertebra jirominens. The ninth has demi-fiicets above, but frequently none below. If the lower ones are present, it is a typical vertebra.THE LUMBAR GROUP. 119 Fig. 140.—Lumbar vertebra, viewed from above. (Testut.) what backward. Fi-om their outer The tenth articulates with but one pair of ribs. It has no demi-facets below, and the upper facets are usually complete, and mainly on the pedicle. The eleventh has a complete facet on the base of each pedicle, and none on the short transverse processes. The large body is elongated transversely, and the spinous process is short, stout, and horizontal, thus a])proaching the lumbar type. The twelfth resembles the lumbar still more in its body, spinous and transverse processes. The latter are short, and present external, superior, and inferior tubercles, corresponding to the transverse, mammillary, and accessory jjrocesses of the lumbar vertebrse. The inferior articular processes look outward, as in the lumbar. As to facets, it resembles the eleventh. All the thoracic vertebras are thus seen to have either entire or demi-facets above, and only the first eight or nine have demi-facets below. Variety.—The tenth vertebra occasionally has no facets on the transverse processes. THE LUMBAR GROUP. The five lumbar vertebra; (Fig. 140) are characterized bv their large size and the absence of costal articular facets. The bodiefi are elongated transversely, and I are slightly deeper in front than behind from the third down. The larn'mm are strong, short, and deep. The spinous processes are thick, hori- zontal, and broad from above downward. The slender so-called transverse processes project out- ward from the pedicles in serial ' line with the lower ribs. They are in reality costal processes, and sometimes are developed into lum- bar ribs, especially in the first lumbar vertebra. At their bases, dorsally, a small process is seen to project downward—the accessor}/ tubercle or rudimentary transverse process. The facets of the superior articular processes are slightly con- cave, and look inward and some- edges a tubercle projects backward, the mammillary process, wiiich corresponds to the su]>erior tubercle of the lower thoracic vertebrse. The facets of the inferior articular processes look outward and slightly forward. They are nearer together, and are embraced by the superior processes, but not so closely as to prevent slight lateral and rotatory movements between the vertebrse. The foramen is triangular and larger than in the thoracic vertebrae. The fifth lumbar vertebra is transitional, ap])roximating the sacral. Its body is large, wedge-shaped, and much deeper in front than behind. To articulate with the first sacral vertebra its infei'ior articular processes are as wide apart as the superior. The transverse processes are large, broad, and conical, sometimes articulating with the sacral alse. The spinous process is short. Varieties.—In a small percentage (estimated at 5 per cent.) of cases the fifth lumbar vertebra is so seyiarated into two parts through the arch that the dorsal segment consists of laminse, spinous and inferior articular processes. Varieties as to the Number of Movable Vertebree.—The cervical vei"tebrae are remarkably free from variation in nnmber, not only in man, l)ut in all mammals, with two or three exceptions. Variation in the number of thoracic and lumbar vertebrae may be reciprocal when it depends ujion an increase or decrease in the number of pairs of lower ribs, causing an increase in the thoracic and a decreaseTHE BONES. 120 ill the lumbar, 1)1" the reverse. Whether the extra vertebra be thoracic or lumbar, the characters of this vertebra are more those of tlie lumbar type. Or, again, the number of movable vertebrse may be increased or decreased by one, causing an increase or decrease of one in the thoracic or lumbar group. This increase is usually in the lumbar series, the lower one of which may be partly united to the sacrum. Table showing the Characters of the Typical Vertebrce of Each Group. Cervical. Bodies : Pedicles • Lamina?: Spinous pro- cesses : Transverse pro- cesses : Costal process: Superior articu- lar processes: Inferior articu- lar processes: Spinal foramen: Small, transversely elon- gated. Sloped downward and forward. Lipped lat- erally. No costal facets. Pass outward and back- ward. Notches above and below nearly equal. Long, slender, flattened. Short, strong, bifid, and nearly horizontal. Short, slender, directed outward and forward. Slender, flat, ossified to the vertebra and transverse process. Flat. Directed upward and slightly backward. Flat. Directed downward and slightly forward. Large, triangular, wide. Thoracic. Heart-shaped. Deeper be- hind. Nearly equal transversely and antero- posteriorly. Costal facets. Pass backward. Inferior notches deeper than supe- rior. Broad, short, imbricated. Long, projecting downward and overlapping. Long, strong. Project out- ward and Isackward. Ar- ticulate with tubercles of ribs. A separate bone (/. e. a rib). Flat. Directed backward and slightly outward. Flat, Directed forward and slightly inward. Smaller, circular. Lumbar. Large, elongated trans- versely. No costal facets. Pass backward and slightly outward. Inferior notches deep. Short, deep, and thick. Quadrate, horizontal ; of medium length. Rudimentary, as "acces- sory process." Ossified to vertebra. Flat, thin, "transverse pro- cess.' ' Slightly concave. Directed inward and slightly back- ward. Slightly convex. Directed outward and slightly for- ward. Larger than in the thoracic. Triangular, wide. The one distinguishing feature of a cervical vertebra is the costo-transverse foramen ; of a thoracic vertebra, the articular facet or demi-facet on the body; and of a lumbar, the absence of both of these peculiarities. THE SACRAL VERTEBRA. These in early life present the elements of live distinct vertebrse, but in the adult they are united into a curved triangular bone, the os sacrum, so called from its use in sacrifice (Figs. 141-143). It articulates laterally with the two hip- bones of the pelvic girdle, and, with the coccyx, completes the pelvis behind and above. In the erect ])ositi()n the sacrum lies obli([uely, its upper surface or base inclined well forward. The sacral vertebrse decrease in size from above downward, thus giving a triangular shape, with a base, apex, venti'al, dorsal, and lateral surfaces. Its separate elements present most, if not all, of the component parts of the movable vertebne ; and the different parts of the sacrum are best understood when studied with reference to these parts. The base of the sacrum, or the ii])per surface of the first sacral vertebra, resembles that of a lumbar vertebra. The large, transversely oval upper surface of the body extends forward to meet the ventral surface at the proniovfon/ of the sacrum which forms the dorsal boundary of the i)elvic brim. Its superior articular processes, widely separated, look backward and inward like the lumbar, and have Avell-marked mammillary processes. The foratneii is triangular. On the sides of the body we see the smooth ake, or wings, on the upper surface of the lateral masses, which are formed by the fusion of the transverse and costal processes on either side. The alse are continuous with the iliac fossae on each side.THE SACRAL VERTEBRA. 121 The apex of the sacrum, directed downward and a little forward, is formed by the transversely oval inferior surface of the body of the fifth sacral vertebra. This articulates with the coccyx by means of an intervertebral disc which in advanced life often ossifies. The ventral surface looks downward as well as forward. It is concave verti- cally, less so transversely. In the female it is broader, less curved vertically, Fig. 141.—The sacrum, ventral view. (Testut.) and the apex is directed more obliquely backward. The five bodies form the middle of this surface. The upper two are large, the lower three smaller. They are separated by four transverse ridges, the ossified intervertebral discs, which are bounded laterally by the four ])airs of ventral .sacral foramina, the ventral openings of the intervertebral foramina. The ventral foramina transmit the ventral divisions of the first fi)ur pairs of sacral nerves, and lead externally into grooves in the lateral masses, which in front consist of fused costal 2>i'ocesses. The dorsal surface is convex, I'ough, and narrower. It presents in the median line the spinous processes of the three or four upper vertebi'je, united into one or two ridges by ossification of the connecting ligaments. The fifth spine ahvays, the fourth usually, and all rarely, are wanting. On either side is the sacral groove, continuous with the vertebral groove above, and formed by the ankylosed laminae. The laminse of the fifth vertebra always, and those of the fourth often, are incomplete, leaving a triangular gap in the lower dorsal wall of the spinal ■canal. The lower margins of this gap are pnjlonged down as two tubercles, the sacy(//"corni(a (" horns "), which represent the inferior articular processes of the fifth sacral vertebra, and are connected by ligaments with the coccygeal cornua. On each side of the sacral groove is a series of small prominences, the artic- ular and mammillary processes, se])arated frt)m a more external series of lai'ger eminences, the transverse processes, by the four dorsal sacral foramina. The latter are opposite to, but smaller than the ventral sacral foramina. The four sacral intervertebral grooves on each side pass outward as canals as far as the lateral mass, where they bifurcate and pass forward and backward to the ventral and dorsal foramina. That part of the bone external to the foramina represents the lateral mass, whose lateral surfaces arc broad and thick above, narrow below. The ujiper broad .part of each lateral surface presents in front an uneven articular surface, calledj'the auricvlar surface, from its ear-like shai)e, which articulates with the ilium, and behind a rough surface for the attachment of the posterior sacro-iliacTHE BONES. 122 ments, and ends in a projection, the inferior lateral angle, below which there is a notch, converted into a foramen by ligaments from the coccyx. Through this foramen passes the anterior division of the fifth sacral nerve. The sacral fipinal canal curves and narrows with the bone. It is triangular above on trans- verse section, flattened or semilunar below, and lodges the lower end of the cauda equina and filum terminale with tlie spinal dura. Peculiarities and Varieties.—The second and third sacral vertebrje represent the sacrum of mammals—the fourth and fifth the first two caudal vertebra^ while the first represents the sixth lumbar of most quadrupeds. This explains the occasional partial or complete separation, and the transitional and partly lumbar character of the first sacral, not rarely present. The large number of sacral vertebrae in man is associated with his upright position. The sacrum some- times consists of six segments, more rarely of only four. In the former instance the first coccygeal is usually included. The breadth of the sacrum as compared with its length is re- markably great in man as compared with mammals, and especially so in the European specimens. Fig. 143.—The sacrum, its right side (Testut.) THE COCCYX. The coccyx^ (Fig. 144) consists of four, but sometimes of five and rarely of three, rudimentary vertebrae. These consist of little else than bodies tapering in size from above downward, so as to give the bone a triangular outline. They are ankylosed together, and oftentimes with the sacrum, in advanced life ; but in middle life, especially in the female, the first is movable on the succeeding thi'ee and on the fifth sacral, with which it is united by fibro-cartilage. ' Named from its resemblance to a cuckoo's beak.THE SPINE AS A WHOLE. 123 The first coccygeal vertebra presents vestiges of a neural arch in two upward projecting cornua and two laterally pr(^jecting trannccrse or costal processes. The cornua, representing pedicles and superior articular processes, complete the last inter- vertebral foramina for the fifth sacral nerves by their connection with the sacral cornua. Tlie transverse processes complete the notches below the lateral sacral angles, which are converted by ligamentous tissue into the fifth anterior sacral foramina. The second coccygeal vertebra presents two knobs dorsally and two laterally, vestiges of the neural arch and costal processes respectively. Three grooves sep- arate the four bodies. The ventral surface is concave, is closely related to the rectum, and attaches interiorly the levator ani muscle. To the thin lateral borders coccygeus muscle and great sacro-sciatic ligaments. Fig. 14-1.—The coccyx, ventral surface. (Testut.) are attached jiarts of the to the tip the external sphincter ani, and to the posterior surface some fibres of the gluteus maximus. THE SPINE AS A WHOLE. The vertebral or spinal column (Fig. 145) is the central axis of the skeleton, and occupies the median line of the trunk dorsally. It supports the head supe- riorly, the ribs laterally, and through them the weight of the upper extremities. It transmits the weight of these parts to the lower limbs through the hip-bones, with which the sacrum articulates. It also encloses and protects the spinal cord in the bony spinal canal, which is provided with a series of thirty intervertel)i'al foramina for the exit of the spinal nerves. The average length of the spine from the atlas to the tip of the coccyx, following the curves, is twenty-eight inches in the male and twenty-seven inches in the female. About one-quarter of its length is made up of the intervertebral discs. The profile view presents four curves, convex forward in the cervical and lumbar regions, backward in the thoracic and sacral. The thoracic and sacral curves are primaiy, and occur in the early embryo, accommodating the thoracic and pelvic viscera. They are due to the shape of the bodies, wliile the secondary cervical and lumbar curves are due largely (if not entirely in the cervical) to the shape of the intervertebral discs. The latter two curves are compensatoiy to allow the erect position, and are developed after birth. Notice that the upper three curves pass imperceptibly into one another, while the junction of the lumbar and I sacral curves makes an angle, the lumbosacral (or saero-vertebral) angle, which forms the overhanging pro'}nontory of the pelvis. Weight is transmitted by the upper three curves and the first one or two pieces of the sacrum to the hip-bones and lower extremities. In the erect position the chords of these three curves are in tlie .eame vertical line, the line of gravity of the head, which ])asses through the odontoid process, the middle of the bodies of the second and twclftli thoracic, and the ventro-inferior edge of the last lumbar vertebra. The curves add greatly to the elasticity and strength of the column, and thus break shocks and increase its resistance to injury. In addition to these, a slight lateral curve, usually con- vex to the right, exists in the u])per tlioracic region, due probably to the greater muscular use of the right side of the bodv. Pathological exaggerations of all these curves may exist. Siicli a curvature is called scoliosis (" curved ") if lateral, hyphosis ("humpback") if dorsal, and lordosis ("bend") if ventral, the latter being usually eompen.«atory to an ankvlosed liip. The fj-ont vieir presents the bodies of tlie vertebrte becoming broader from the axis to the first thoracic, and from the fourth tlioracic to the sacrum ; and becoming narrower from the first to the fourth thoracic, and from the first sacral to the tip of the coccyx. Thus, four pyramids are formed ; but the total surface area of theTHE BONES. 124 CERVICAL VERTEBRjE THORACIC VERTEBRAE bodies steadily increases from above downward to the sacrum. The bodies are widest in the cervical and lumbar regions, where motion is most free. The rear view presents in the middle line the series of spines, nearly hori- zontal and about (opposite the corre- sponding bodies in the cervical and lumbar regions, thus allowing free motion. The spines of the upper cer- vical vertebrie are not readily felt in the living body until we reach the seventh, or sometimes the sixth, spine. The upper thoracic spines are easily felt as subcutaneous, the lower thoracic and lumbar less so, for they lie in the deep spinal furrow bounded by the masses of muscles which occupy the vertebral grooves. At the sides of the spines are the vertebra/ grooves, bounded externally by a row of transverse processes. The floor of these grooves is formed by the laminje, connected by the ligamenta subflava, and by the articular pro- cesses with the mammillary processes in the lower part of the spine. The sjjinal canal is large and triangular in the cervical and lumbar regions, smaller and round in the thoracic region, and still smaller and flattened in the sacral region. The weakest point in the spine is found between the second and tliird cervical vertebrce, but the union of the thoracic and lumbar curves, or the twelfth thoracic vertebra and those on either side of it, is most liable to in- jury, for here a fixed part joins the most movable, there is a long leverage on both sides, and the transverse width is least. Notice that the plane be- tween any two vertebrae is interrupted of the articular processes and other, e dislocation between two ver- LUMBAR VERTEBR/E -The spinal column, right lateral view and (Testut.) by the upward and downward jjrojection parts connected with the neural arch, tebrse is, therefore, almost imjjossible, unless perhaps in the cervical region, where the surfaces of the articular ])rocesses are more nearly horizontal. This is borne out in practice, where we find fracture-dislocation the common injury, the processes or neural arch being commonly fractured, if not the body itself. Ossification of the Vertebrae. The vertebrae are preformed in cartilage (Fig. 146) around the notochord and enclosing the spinal cord. In most cases three primary centres of ossification occur—one on either side in the neural arch, and one in the body. The former unite together in the median line dorsally to form the arch. J^ut sometimes this union fails for a distance, especially in the lumbar and sacral regions, leaving a gap through which a sjjina bifida may occur. The part formed by the ossific centres of the neural arch constitutes a varying amount of the lateral and dorsal aspects of the bodies (including the rib facets), se^jarated for a timeOSSIFICATION OF THE VEBTEBBJE. 125 from the rest of the body by the cartilaginous iieuro-central suture. At birth a vertebra consists of three ossified parts—a body and the two lateral halves of the neural arch—connected by cartilage. Later five epiphyseal centres appear— three of which form tips for the spinous and transverse processes, and two form thin plates on the upper and lower sur- faces of the bodies. The mammillary processes of the lumbar vertebrae have each a small centre. The costal pro- UPPER EPIPHYSEAL DISC SPINOUS Vrocess LATERAL PAST EPIPHYSIS ON TRANSVERSE PROCESS EPIPHYSIS ON SPINOUS PROCESS BODY ^ Fig. 146.—BeKinninf; of ossification in the carti- Fig. 147.—Ossification of a tlioracic vertebra. (After laginous vertebra of a fa?tus. (Testut.) Testut.) cesses of the sixth and seventh cervical usually, of the first lumbar sometimes, and occasionally of other cervical vertebrae, are formed from sepai'ate centres. These may remain separate and become cervical or lumbar ribs. The various centres are not wholly united until about the twenty-fifth year. The atlaa has regularly three centres—one for either half of the neural arch, formed by the lateral masses and the dorsal arch, and the third for the ventral arch. The axis (Fig. 148) ossifies much like other vertebrae, but its odontoid process has two laterally jjlaced centres, which unite together, and later with the body of the axis, though the centre of the intervening cartilage persists through HALF OF ODONTOID PROCESS LATERAL PART HALF OF ODONTOID PROCESS LATERAL PART SPINOUS PROCESS tut.) LOWER epiphyseal' DISC Fig. 148.—Ossification of the axis. (After Tes- lateral part AURICULAR EPIPHYSIS AURICULAR EPIPHYSIS Fig. 149.—Ossification of the sacrum—horizontal sec- tion through first piece, (Alter Testut.) j life. An epiphyseal centre also occurs for the apex of the odontoid process. The sacrum (Fig. 149) also ossifies essentially like other vertebrae, except that there are separate centres for the costal processes of the upper three vertebrae, and the auricular articular surfaces have two secondary centres each. The inter- vertebral discs ossify on the surface, but not in the centre, from the eighteenth to the twenty-fifth year, from below upward. The coccyx is cartilaginous at birth, and each segment has commonly but one centre. The lower three ankylose before middle life, and these with the first still later, while bony union with the sacrum belongs to advanced life. Variations.—Two or a single lateral centre may exist in a vertebral body, forming a divided or a half vertebra. In the fifth lumbar vertebra the neural arch often has four centres. The pairs on either side may fail to unite with each other, causing a separation of the laminae and inferior articular processes from the pedicles, etc. Serial Morphology of the Vertebrae.—The similarity of construction of the vertebrae in each region of the column is evident from the study of their develoji- ment and ossification. Centra or bodies are present for all the vertebrae in man.126 THE BONES. but that of the atlas is dissociated from its neural arch and joined to the body of the axis as the odontoid process. The anterior arch of the atlas probal)ly belongs to a series of hypophyses or subvertcbral wedge-bones (found in lizards, etc.). Nothing need be said of the neural arches and spines, except that they are incom- plete or wanting in the lower sacral and coccygeal regions. The articular processes are not morphologically im])ortant ; but the upper three are not homologous with other articular processes, but rather with the lateral parts of the bodies formed by the neural arches. The transverse processes, so called, present more difficulty as well as interest. We find two transversely directed processes—a ventral or costal process and a dorsal or transverse process proper. They present themselves in the simplest form in the thoracic region, where the ventral or costal prcjcess is a separate rib, which by articulation with the transverse process encloses an arte- rial foramen, tlie costo-transverse. This foramen is seen also in the cervical region, where, however, the costal processes are ankylosed with the transverse processes and bodies, except when, in the low^er cervical vertebrse, they form separate cervical ribs. In the lumbar region the costo-transverse foramen is only indicated by a group of holes at the base of and between the transverse process and the accessory tubercle. The latter represents the tip of the su])pressed dor- sally situated transverse process, while the former rejiresents a costal proeess, and in the first lumbar sometimes exists as a separate lumbar rib. In the upper three or true sacral vertebraj the large ventral costal processes and the dorsal trans- verse processes unite to form the lateral masses which articulate with the hip- bones by means of their costal parts. The mammillary processes (best seen in the lumbar and lower thoracic regions) are rudiments of the much-elongated articular processes in some animals, as the dog, etc. THE THORAX. Besides the thoracic vertebrae already described, the skeleton of the thorax (" breast-plate ") consists of the sternum, ribs, and costal cartilages. INTERCLAVICULAR NOTCH FOR ARTICULATION OF CLAVICLE THE STERNUM. The sternum or breast-bone (Fig. 150) is a long, thin, flat bone, situated sub- cutaneously in the middle of the ventral wall of the tliorax. It is connected with the thoracic part of the vertebral axis by the cartilages of the first seven ribs on each side, and, through the attach- ment of the clavicle, it connects the shoulder- girdle and the upper extremity to the vertebral axis. It lies obliquely, so that its lower end is farther forward than the upper. The np])er end corresponds to the lower border of the second, the lower end to the middle of the ninth, thoracic vertebra. It consists of three parts, derived from six original segments. The first segment, or upper part, remains separate through life as the manu- brium ("handle") or pre-sternum, united by fibro-cartilage to the succeeding four segments which form the e/lndiolus ("little sword") or bodt/ (meso-sternnm). The sixth or lower seg- ment, forming the xiphoid or ensiform (" sword- sternum, ventral \\\^q ") process (nieta-sternuni), remains cartilagin- ous and distinct to advanced age, when it may ossify in whole or in part, and ankylose with the body. It is usually bent, and 150.-The (Testut.)127 THE RIBS. often perforated, notched, or bifid. It lies in a plane behind that of the body of the sternum and the cartilages of the seventh ribs. The sternum is longitu- dinally convex in front, concave behind, and presents transverse ridges where the seofments unite. It consists of loose cancellous tissue with a thin shell of com- pact bone. The manubrium forms the upper border of the sternum, which is deeply notched in the middle {intefclmncular notch), and pi'esents at its lateral angles two depressed surfaces looking upward, outward, and backward, where the clavicles articulate. On each side of the manubrium, at the widest part of the sternum, is a rough, triangular surface for union with the cartilage of the first rib. Below this tJie sternum rapidly narrows to the junction of the manubrium and the body, indicated by a prominent transverse ridge, easily felt through the skin and import- ant as a landmark. Here the second costal cartilage articulates with a surfoce formed of two demi-facets, one on the manubrium and one on the body. The third, fourth, and fifth costal cartilages articulate with the sides of the body at the ends of the transverse ridges between the segments.' The sixth and seventh costal cartilages articulate with the sl()])ingand narrow sides of the lower segment of the body, the facet for the seventh cartilage being completed by a denii-facet on " the ensiform jirocess. The spaces between the articular facets correspond to the intercostal spaces, and narrow from above downward. Muscles Attached.—In front: laterally, to the manubrium and body, the pec- toralis major; below the notch for the clavicle, the sterno-cleido-mastoid ; to the base of the ensiform process, the rectus abdominis ; to the sides and tip of the ensiform process, the aponeurosis of the oblique and transverse abdominal mus- cles. Behind : near the superior angles, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid ; laterally, in the lower four segments, the triangularis sterni; to the ensiform pro- cess, the diaphragm. On the sides: between the facets, the internal intercostals. The sternum articulates with seven, and occasionally eight, costal cartilages and the clavicle on each side. The sternum is subcutaueous at the bottom of the sternal groove, which is due to the lateral prominences of the pectoral muscles, and is limited above by the interclavicular notch and below by the infrasternal depression, due to the 2)romi- \ nence of the seventh costal cartilages above the level of the ensiform jn-oeess. The proportionate length of the body is greater in the male than in the female. Its average length is six inches in the adult male, somewhat less in the female. Development.—The sternum is formed by the fusion of the ventral cartilag- inous ends of the upper ribs into two lateral bars, which later fuse together mesially, except in rare cases where a cleft sternum exists. Ossification is irregular, but usually the first two segments present a single primary centre, while two laterally placed centres commonly occur in the succeed- I ing segments. By the failure of the latter to unite across the median line a median foramen or a vertical fissure may be left. THE RIBS. The ribs (costse) extend in twelve pairs from the thoracic vertebrae in an out- ward and forward curve toward the median line in front. They form the lateral walls of the thoracic cage, and are ju'olonged in front by the costal cartilages. As the upper seven pairs of the latter jJass to the sternum, the corresponding seven ])airs of ribs are called true or sternal ribs, while the lower five jmirs are called/o/.se or asternal ribs. Of the latter, the lower two pairs are called/('oa^M?^' nbs, as their forward ends are free, while those of the three pairs above them are connected together. The length of the ribs increases from the first to the eighth, and thence it decreases to the twelfth. The greatest breadth is found at the sternal end. The ribs are highly elastic, owing to their slenderness and curvature. ' The second, third, fourth, fifth, and seventli costo-sternal articulations correspond to the articu- lations of the heads of their ribs with two vertebrse.128 THE BONES. The general characters of typical ribs are best marked in ribs like the seventh, near the centre of the series. K typical rib (Fig-. 151) consists ot" an enlarged HEAD Fig. 151.—A typical rib of the riglit .side. The upper picture shows the inner surface, the lower one the outer surface. (Testut.) vertebral end, or head, joined by a constricted neck to a shaft, presenting a tubercle, an angle, and a sternal end. The head shows two articular facets, .sepa- rated by a slight horizontal ridge, to which the intei'articular ligament from the intervertebral disc is attached. The facets articulate with the two demi-facets on the sides of the bodies of two contiguous vertebne. The lower facet is the primary and larger one, and articulates with the vertebra which corresponds to the rib in number, and it is the only facet where there is but one. The neek is that part between the head and the tubercle. It is rough behind and along the upper and lower borders for the costo-transverse ligaments, and forms the ventral boundary of the costo-transverse foramen. The tuhercle is divided by an oblique groove into an inner and lower smooth portion for articulation with the front of the tip of the transverse process of the vertebra of the same number as the rib, and an outer and upper rough part for the posterior costo-transverse ligament. The body, or shaft, beginning with the tubercle, extends to the cupped sternal end, which receives the costal cartilage. It is laterally compressed, so as to present inner and outer surfaces and upper and lower borders. On the inner aspect of the inferior border is the subcostal e/rooce, which lodges the intercostal vessels and nerves. It is best marked near the angle, and is limited above by a ridge which is continuous with the inferior border of the neck and attaches the internal inter- costal muscle. The inferior border, which begins near the angle, attaches the external intercostal muscle ; the superior border attaches both intercostal muscles; the convex external surface affords attachment for miLscles. The shaft is curved around a vertical axis, or rather two axes. The dor.sal and sharper curve is in line with the neck, and extends outward to the angle, where the rib takes a sudden bend, in front of which the curve is more gradual. The curvature of the ribs decreases from the first, the most curved, to the twelfth, the least curved. The back of the angle is rough,for the attachment of the ilio- costalis muscle and its upward continuation. At the angle the ril)s from the third to the twelfth are also bent on a horizontal axis, so that if they be rested on their lower borders the head end of the ribs curves upward from the angles. This curve increases from the third to the seventh, and thence decreases to the twelfth. The head end of the first and twelfth bend slightly downward; that of the second is in line with the shaft. This curve is sometimes spoken of as a twisting of the rib on itself. It increases the obliquity of the ribs as f;ir as the seventh or eighth. Peculiar Ribs.—The fird rib (Fig. 152) is the least oblique, and is .so placed that its surfaces present upward and downward. If laid on its lower surface, theTHE COSTAL CARTILAGES. 129 head end does not bend up, but slightly down. The small head has but a single facet, the neck is long and narrow, and the tubercle and angle coincide. On the broad superior surface and close to the centre of the internal border is a rough mark, the scalene tubercle, the origin of the scalenus anterior muscle. It separates a groove in front for the subclavian vein from one behind for the subclavian artery. Behind the latter groove are attached the first digitation of the serratus magnus externally and the scalenus medius internally. The subcostal groove is wanting. The second rib (Fig. 152) has no upward curve of the head end, but it lies almost per- fectlv flat. The upper surface looks 1 obliquely outward, and has a promi- j nent I'oughness for the serratus mag- nus. The angle is but slightly marked. The tenth rib has usually a single facet on the head, sometimes two facets. The i eleventh rid has but f)ne facet, no neck or tubercle, a feel)le angle, and a shallow subcostal groove. The twelfth rib resembles the eleventh, but has no angle and no subcostal groove. It is shorter, and may be rudimentary, measuring less than 1 inch in length—an important point in lumbar incisions. It either lies flat on its lower border, or its head end may bend slightly down\\ard. Its outer surface may incline somewhat downward. Variations.—Thirteen ribs may occur on one cir both sides, from the presence of a cervical or lumbar rib. The additional ribs are developed from the costal processes, and are usually short and imjierfect, especially Avheii luml)ar. Very rarely a thirteenth thoracic rib occurs. The tenth rib may have no articular facet on the tubercle. Ossification.—The ribs are preformed in cartilage, and have a single primary centre near the angle. Much later two epiphyseal centres appear—one for the head and one for the tubercle—which become united to the rest of the bone by the twenty-fifth year. THE COSTAL CARTILAGES. : The costal cartilar/es are bars of hyaline cartilage prolonging the ribs toward the sternum. In direction the first passes slightly downward as well as inward, the second is horizontal, and the rest, down to the eleventh, are directed suc- cessively more and more upward in passing inward. Their breadth diminishes from the first to the twelfth, and is greater at the costal than at the sternal end of each cartilage. Their length increases to the seventh, and thence becomes gradually less. In shape they resemble the sternal ends of the ribs. The inner I extremities of the u])per seven are connected with the sternum, the first being- I fused with it, the others articulated. The cartilages of the upper three false ribs are attached at their upturned, narrow, inner ends to the lower border of the cartilages next above. The cartilages of the floating ril)S are short, and have a pointed free end. The borders and surfaces afford attachment to muscles—inter- nally to the triangularis sterni, from the second to the sixth, and to the diaphragm and transversalis in the lower six. The costal cartilages represent unossified epiphyses of the rib-shafts. The costal cartilages are covered by a thick peri- chondrium, beneath whicli superficial ossification may occur in advanced life. This change occurs quite regularly in the first cartilage, but in the others less. 9 TUBERCLE ' — "^NECK Fig. The first and second ribs of the right side, viewed from above. (Tcstut.)THE BONES. 130 commonly, at a later period, more particularly in front, and more often in the male than in the female. THE THORAX AS A WHOLE. The bony thorax (Figs. 153, 154) forms an irreoular, truncated cone, com- pressed from before backward. It is longer behind than in front, so that its upper small reniform aperture, or inlet, looks slightly forward as well as upward, and the plane of the lower opening, or base, also looks forward and downward. Fig. 153—The skeleton of the thorax, front view. (Testut.) The margin of the irregular base is formed by the two curved lines of the edges of tlie lower six pairs of ribs and cartilages, converging to the xiphi-sternal junction, and bounding the subcostal angle, in the centre of which projects the ensiform process. The dorsal wall, formed by the thoracic vertebrae and the ribs as fiir as the angles, is convex from above downward. The backward curve of the ribs forms a broad furrow, the vertebral groove, between the angles of the ribs and the vertebral spines, which lodges the erector-spinje muscle group. This backward position of the angles of the ribs, about on a level with the thoracic spines, causes the flatness of the back which allows the supine position character- istic of man. The ventral tvall, formed by the sternum and costal cartilages, is inclined downward and forward at an angle of 20° or 25° with the vertical plane, and is only slightly convex. The sides, formed by the ribs, from the angles to the cartilages are convex from above downward; much more so from before back- ward. From about the ninth rib down they slant inward. The interior corre- sponds in shape to the exterior, except for the median ])rojection of the vertebral bodies, which makes the median diameter less than that on either side, and only little more than one-half of the external median diameter. The lateral grooves formed by the forward projection of the vertebral bodies and the backward curvature of the ribs lodge about as much of the lungs as lies in front of a transverse plane tangent to the bodies. This circumstance, together with theTHE CLAVICLE. ]31 wide transverse diameter characteristic of man, throws the weight farther back, and makes easier the balance around the spinal axis in the erect position. The ribs are more and more oblique from above downward as far as the seventh or lower—a fact due in part to the increasing downward curvature from the head to the angle, and in part to the increasingly lower position of the trans- verse processes of the lower thoracic vertebrae. This increasing obliquity of the Fig. 154.—The skeleton of the thorax, dorsal view (Testut.) ribs makes the eleven intercostal spaces wider at the sides than behind. These spaces contract again somewhat in front from the third to the eighth. They are widest in the upper three spaces, and wider in insjiiration than in expiration. It should be remembered that the circumference of the right half of the thorax is usually about half an inch larger than that of the left. Note that tlie low^er pal- pable end of the gladiolus is on a level with the lowest part of the fifth rib. At birth the thorax may measure even more from before backward than transversely, as is the case with quadrupeds. This is due to the absence of the angles and to the less curvature of the ribs at this period. In the female the thorax is rela- tively shorter, and deeper from before backward, though the latter diameter is actually less than in the male. THE BONES OP THE UPPER LIMB. The skeleton of the upper limb comprises the clavicle and scapula, forming the pectoral arch or .shoulder-girdle, the humerus in the arm, the radius and ulna m the forearm, and the carpal, metacarpal, and phalangeal bones in the hand. THE CLAVICLE. The clavicle ("little key") or coUar-bone (Figs. 155, 156) passes outward and Dackward from the top of the sternum to the acromion process of the scapula, md forms the connecting link between the trunk and the upper limb, affording aTHE BONES. 132 fulcrum in the movements of the latter. It is curved like an italic /. Its inner two-thirds, prismatic or cylindrical, is convex forward like tiie thorax below it; ACROMIAL END Fig. 155.—The right clavicle, upper surface and sternal end. (Testut.) its outer third, flattened from above downward, is concave forward, corresponding to the hollow between the thorax and the shoulder. The Huperior swrface is flat and broad in its outer tliird, where it is overhipped by the attachment of the trapezius behind and the deltoid in front, with a subcu- taneous area between. In the inner two-thirds it is rounded and subcutaneous externally, and marked by the attachment of the sterno-cleido-mastoid internally. The ventral surface in its outer third is merely a rough border for the origin of the deltoid, near the inner limit of which is the deltoid tubercle, when present. In its inner two-thii-ds it is broader, and rough for the origin of the pectoralis major muscle. The inferior mrface presents the rough t)-apezoid line, running inward and backward from near the front of the outer end to the conoid tubercle, near the dorsal ])order at the junction of the outer fourth and the inner three- fourths. These attach respectively the trapezoid and conoid portions of the coraco- clavicular ligament. Internal to the conoid tubercle is a shallow groove for the insertion of the subclavius muscle. Near the sternal end is a rough impression for the rhomboid ligament which binds the clavicle to the first rib. Internal to this impression is a facet where the clavicle plays on the first costal cartilage. This Fig. 156.—The right clavicle, under surface. (Te.stut.) facet is continuous with tlie sternal facet, and close beside it the sterno-hyoid mus- cle is attached. The dorml mrface, like the ventral, is merely a rough border in its outer third, where the trapezius muscle is inserted. In its inner two-thirds it is broader and smooth, and arches over the subclavian vessels and the bracliial plexus. The nutrient foramen is usually seen passing outward near the niiddk' of tliis surfac^e, but sometimes it is on the inferior surface. Part of the clavicular attachment of the sterno-cleido-mastoid is found at the sternal end of this surface. The border^ separating the dorsal and inferior surfaces glasses from the conoid tubercle to the rhondioid impression. The derncd end is ex])andcd into a triangular or oval articular surface, whichj plays upon the interarticular fibro-cartilage l^etween it and the sternal facet. Its rough borders attach the sterno-clavicular and intei'clavicular ligaments. The acromial end presents an oval articular surface, elongated from before backward, ' No other border needs description. The clavicle is often described as having three surfacesi and three borders in its inner two-thirdf, and two in its outer third. In this less common or lessi accurately described condition the ventral border is expanded in its centre for the attacliinent of the] pectoralis major muscle. ITHE SCAPULA. 133 and bevelled inferiorly, which articulates with the acromion process of the scapula. Its upper surface is on a little higher level than that of the acromion. TJie clavicle has no medullary cavity, but is composed of cancellous tissue with a shell of compact bone. It is more or less subcutaneous throughout, but especially so in the intermuscular interval near its centre. Fracture is very common, especially at the junction of its two curvatures (inner two-thirds and outer one-third). The clavicle is longer, stronger, I'ougher, and more curved in the male than in the female, and on the right side than on the left. In the male it also inclines slightly upward as it passes outward. Ossification.—The clavicle is the first bone to ossify. It begins in membrane, but quickly extends into the underlying cartilage of the precoracoid bar. An epiphysis, apjjearing at the sternal end between the eighteenth and twentieth years, is united to the shaft al)out the twenty-fifth year. FOR CLAVICLE SUPERIOR ANGLE -1 'SCAPULAR FOSSA THE SCAPULA. The 8capula (Figs. 157, 158) is a large, flat, triangular bone, forming the dorsal part of the shoulder-girdle. It rests upon the upper and back part of the thorax, and from it is susjjended the humerus. Its surfaces are ventral and articular facet dorsal; its borders superior, internal, and external ; and from its external angle or head, which bears an articular surface, projects the coracoid process. The spine, prolonged into the acromion process, projects from its dorsal surface. The ventral surface, or venter, pre- sents the subscapular fossa, a deep con- cavity most marked above. From the inner two-thirds of this, which is marked by three or four oblique ridges, the subscapularis muscle arises. This fossa is separated from the internal border by a linear area, which, with its two triangular expansions opposite the upper and lower angles, attaches the serratus magnus muscle. Externally, the fossa is limited by a smooth, ])romi- nent ridge descending from the head of the bone. From the narrow groove between this ridge and the external border arise some fibres of the sub- icapularis. The convex dorsal surface or dorsum is unequally divided by a prominent ridge, the spine, into an upper smaller supraspinous fossa, and 1 lower larger infraspinous fossa, giving origin to the snpraspinatus and infra- spinatus muscles, respectively. The two fossae communicate around the outer oorder of the spine by means of the greed scapular notch, which corresponds to the leck of the bone, and transmits the suprascapular nerve and vessels from one fossa 0 the other. An oblique ridge nmning from below the glenoid fossa to the verte- )ral border just above the inferior angle separates the infraspinous fossa from the ixternal border by a narrow space, which attaches the teres minor muscle above md the teres major on the broader j>ortion below. The massive triangular spine of the scapula commences about the upper fourth 1 the vertebral border as a smooth, exjianded, triangular surface, covered by a •ursa over which the lower part of the trapezius glides to be inserted into a Fig. 157.—The right scapula, ventral view. (Testut.)134 THE BONES. tubercle beyond. From this point, projecting backward and upward, and becoming more and more elevated, it extends outward and a little upward to the middle of the neck of the scapula. Thence it is continued forward and out- ward as the flat, quadrate acromion (" summit of the shoulder") process, over- hanging the shoulder-joint. The upper and lower smooth, concave surfaces of the spine form part of the supra- and infraspinous fossse respectively. Of the two Fig. 158.—The right scapula, dorsal view. (Testut.) unattached borders the short, smooth, and concave external border arises at the neck of the scapula, where it bounds the great scapular notch, and is continuous with the under surface of the acromion. The more prominent subcutaneous dorsal border, or erest, is rough, broad, and serpentine. Commencing at the above-men- tioned triangular surfoce, it passes outward to become continuous with the rough, subcutaneous upj)er surface of the acromion. The upper lip of the crest is con- tinuous with the inwr border of the acromion, and to them is attached the trape- zius muscle as far as the oval facet for the outer end of the clavicle, on the inner border of the acromion near its tip. The lower lip of the crest is continuous with the outer border of the acromion, with which it forms an angle, the acromial angle, and from them the deltoid takes origin. The apex of the acromion attaches the coraco-acromial ligament, and its under surface, continuous with the upper surface and outer border of the spine, is smooth and covered by a bursa. The internal or vertebral border (or base) is long and irregulai'ly convex. Opposite the commencement of the spine it bends more sharply, and here attaches the rhomboideus minor muscle, while below this area the rhomboidcus major is attached by a fibrous arch, and above it the levator scapulte is inserted. The sujmior horeler, short, sharp, and concave, extends from the superior angle to the base of the coracoid process, where it presents the suprascapular notch, converted into a foramen by the transvor.se ligament (sometimes by a spicula of bone). The foramen transmits the suprascapular nerve, and from the ligament and the adjacent border the omo-hyoid muscle arises. The external or axillary border is quite thin, and just below the glenoid fossa presents a rough impression, from which the long head of the tricejjs arises. A little below this is a groove for the dorsal artery of the scapula. The long, rounded, thick inferior angle is often called the angle of the scapula.135 THE HUMERUS. To its dorsal aspect some fibres of the latissimus dorsi muscle are frequently attached. The external angle presents the liead, supported on a slightly constricted nech, and bearing the articular glenoid mvity for the humerus. The glenoid cavity i is shallow and pear-shaped, with the narrow end above, and indented on its ven- tral lip above its centre. It looks outward, upward, and forward. To its rim is attached the glenoid ligament, which deepens the shallow cavity, and outside of this the capsular ligament is attached. The long head of the biceps arises from I its upper extremity. From the upper border of the neck the thick, strong cora- I coid ("like a crow's beak") process rises nearly vertically for a short distance, i and then bends sharply forward and outward in front of, and more or less parallel with, the acromion. From the tip of the process arise the short head of the biceps, the coraco-brachialis, and the costo-coracoid ligament. To its inner border the pectoralis minor muscle is attached, and to its outer border the coraco-acromial ligament. Its superior surface is rough, and affords attachment, near the base, to the coraco-clavicular ligament (conoid and trapezoid portions). When the arm hangs by the side the scapula rests upon the ribs, from the second to the seventh inclusive, and the inner end of its spine corresponds to the i third thoracic spine' or the space below it. The distance between the spines of the vei'tebrse and the vertebral border averages two inches. The tip of the coracoid process is palpable below the clavicle and internal to the humeral head, except in 1 fat subjects. The dorsal border of the spine, the upper surface of the acromion, and the lower part of the vertebral border are also subcutaneous. ' Ossification occurs in cartilage from two primary and five secondary centres, from the former of which the body and coracoid process are formed. The coracoid joins the body about the fifteenth year, when two centres apjiear in the acromion, ; which soon unite together and join the spine about the twentieth year, though sometimes this union fails, and the acromion is movable on the spine. Two other centres appear in the cartilage along the vertebral border, and another between the glenoid cavity and the coracoid jjrocess. Morphology.—The coracoid process represents the coracoid bone, or ventral bar of the shoulder-girdle of other animals. Its ventral end has degenerated into the costo-coracoid ligament. The glenoid fossa is the meeting-point of the coracoid and the dorsal segment or scapula. The precoracoid bar of the shoulder- girdle is replaced by the clavicle in man. THE HUMERUS. The humerus (Figs. 159, 160) constitutes the skeleton of the arm, and extends downward and slightly inward from the shoulder to the elbow. It presents, like all long bones of the liml)s, an upper and a lower extremity and a shaft. ) The large upper extremity includes the head, neck, and two tuberosities. The large cartilage-clad head represents about one-third of a sphere, whose vertical diameter is slightly longer than the transverse. It is directed inward, upward, and backward, at an angle of 130° with the axis of the shaft, to articulate with the glenoid cavity of the scapula. The anatomical nech is the slight constriction below and external to the head, to which the capsular ligament is attached. Superiorly, it is a mere groove between the head and the tuberosities. The latter are separated from one another by the commencement of the bicipital groove. The great tuberosity, the higher and more dorsally placed, is continued up from the outer surface of the shaft nearly to the level of the head. Of the three facets on its upper and dorsal aspect, the upper attaches the supraspinatus, the middle the infraspinatus, and the lower the teres minor muscle. The prominent small tuberosity looks forward and attaches the subscapularis muscle. The surgical neck, so called from the frequency of fracture here, is where the shaft joins the upper extremity. The shaft, cylindrical above, transversely expanded and triangular below,' is ' And also to the fissure between the upper and lower lobes of the lung.THE BONES. 136 twisted inward in descending. It presents external, internal, and dorsal surfaces separated by external, internal, and ventral borders. The external and internal borders, slightly marked above, become jirominent below as the external and internal supracondylar ridges, which descend to the condyles. From each of Fig. 159.—The right humerus, front view. (Testut.) Fig. 160.—The right humerus, rear view. (Testut.) these an intermnscular septum arises, and from the upper two-thirds of the external ridg'. arises the brachio-radialis muscle, and from its lower third the extensor carpi radialis longus. The external border extends down from the back of the great tul T.jsity, and Is int3rrupted near the middle of the shaft by the musculo-spiral groove. Th ■ internal border commences above just below the head,* and near its centre presents a rough impression, extending on to the adja- cent inner surface, for the lorac o-brachialis muscle. The ventral border starts above from the front of the grec.t tuberosity as the outer lip of the bicipital groove, and ends below in the riuge separating the trochlea and capitellum. The internal surface in its upper third presents the vertical bicipital groove, which lodges the long tendon of the biceps. Its two rough lips give insertion, the outer to the pectoralis major, the inner to the teres major below, and to the latissimus dorsi above, which is also attached to the floor of the groove. A little below the centre is seen the nutrient foramen, directed downward. The external surface pre- ' It is usually described as coutinuing the inner lip of the bicipital groove.THE ULNA. 137 sents just above the centre a rough V-shaped impression for the deltoid insertion, immediately below which the miisculo-spiral groove is seen winding downward and forward after grooving the outer border. The hind or lower portion of this groove is traversed by the musculo-spiral nerve and the superior profunda ves- sels, while its upper part, together with the lower half of the external and internal surfaces and of the ventral border, gives origin to the Ijrachialis muscle. The dorsal surfdce, unequally divided by the musculo-sjiiral groove, attaches above the latter the external head of the trice2:)s, and below it the internal head. The lotver extremity is transversely elongated, flattened from before backward, and curved forward. From within outward notice the following parts : The prominent internal condyle is flattened and inclined slightly backward, forming a shallow groove behind, traversed by the ulnar nerve. From the front of its extremity arise the pronator radii teres and the common tendon of the superficial flexor muscles in the forearm, below which the internal lateral ligament is attached. The articular surface is divided by a ridge (which corresponds to the interval between the radius and ulna) into a large internal and a smaller external part. The internal part, or trochlea (" pulley "), is a pulley-like surface, grooved in the middle, which articulates with the great sigmoid cavity of the ulna. It is obliquely placed, so that it ascends upward and outward behind, and its inner margin descends much lower than its outer. It is broader liehiud than in front, and its surface forms three-fourths or more of a circle. Above it notice the large olecranon fossa behind and the smaller coronoid fossa, in front, receiving, respect- ively, the olecranon ])rocess in extension and the coronoid process in flexion of j the forearm. The external part, the capitellum (" little head"), or radial head, is a small rounded surface, which, with the groove internal to it, articulates with the head of the radius. It looks forward, and is confined to the venti'al and a jjart of the inferior surface. Above it in front is a slight depression for the edge of the head of the radius in com])lete flexion of the elbow. The external condyle, on the same horizontal plane with, but less jn'ominent than, the internal, attaches inferiorly the common tendon of the forearm extensor muscles, the external lateral ligament, and, more dorsally and internally, the anconeus muscle. In its natural position the humerus is I'otated inward so much that the internal I condyle, which is in line with the head above, looks more backward than inward. The princi])al or longest axes of the upper and lower extremities make an angle of torsion of 30° with one another, which rejjresents the amoinit of twisting of the bone. The humerus averages 13 inches in length in the male and 12 inches in the female. The condyles alone are subcutaneous, and are imjwrtant as land- marks. Varieties.—The thin plate of bone between the olecranon and coronoid fossae is sometimes perforated, forming the supratrochlear foramen. A small hook-like I supracondylar process, connected by a fibrous band with the internal condyle about 2 inches below, is occasionally found. It represents a similar bony fora- men in many animals, and, like it, transmits through the arch the median nerve and often the brachial artery or a large branch of it. Ossification occurs from a primary centre in the shaft and six or seven second- ary centres in the extremities. In the upper extremity centres appear in the head, great tuberosity, and sometimes in the small tuberosity, Avhich, after fusing together, join the shaft about the twentieth year. In the lower extremity centres appear in the trochlea, capitellum, and outer and inner condyles, the three former of which, after coalescing, unite with the shaft in the seventeenth year, the inner condyle somewhat later. THE ULNA. The idna ("elbow-bone") (Figs. 161, 162), the inner bone of the forearm, is parallel with, but longer than, the radius by nearly the length of the olecranon. It is inclined downward and outward from the humerus, so that the great tuber-138 2'HE BONES. 1 ANTERIOR BORDER osity aud capitellura of the humerus and the lower end of the uhui are in a straight line. The irregular upper extremity is the thickest part, and j)resents for articulation with the trochlea of the humerus the great sigmoid (" signia-like ") cavity. This looks forward and upward, is concave from above downward, and presents a longitudinal ridge which Hts into the groove of the trochlea. At tlie middle of the cavity is a constriction (sometimes a groove) which repre- sents the limit between the upper and iiind part formed by the olecranon, and the lower and fore part formed by the coronoid process. The thick o/ava/foy; (" elbow-head ") process forms the highest part of the ulna. On its broad upper surface the triceps is inserted dorsally, while the front of this surface projects in a beak which overhangs the great sigmoid cavity, and fits into the olecranon fossa of the humerus in exten- sion of the elbow. The dorsal surface is triangular and subcutaneous, except for a bursa covering it. The margins of the ventral or articular surface attach the internal and posterior ligaments of the elbow. From a tubercle on its inner side part of the flexor carpi ulnaris arises. The coronoid (" crown-like ") jivocess projects forward from the upper end of the shaft. Its sharp ventral edge, or apex, is received into the coronoid fossa of the humerus in flexion. The ventral and internal edges of its upper or articular surface attach the anterior and internal ligaments of the elbow. The inferior or ventral surface is rough, and, together with the tuberosity at its lower end, gives insertion to the brachialis. The oblique ligament is attached to the outer part of the tuberosity. On the inner edge of the ventral surface is a tubercle from which part of the flexor sublimis digitorum arises, and from the ridge below this parts of the pronator radii teres and flexor longus pollicis arise. On the outer side of the upper end of the coronoid process, and continuous with the great sigmoid cavity, is the concave, oval, small sigmoid ccwity for articulation with the side of the head of the radius. The shaft tapers from above downward. It is curved inward above, outward below, as well as slightly backward. Triangular in the upper three-fourths, more rounded below, it presents the following parts : The anterior or ventral border runs from the inner margin of the coronoid process to the front of the styloid process, becoming continuous with the oblique pronator ridge in its lower fifth. The posterior or dorsal border begins at the apex of the subcutaneous triangle behind the olecranon, and runs sinuously to the back of the styloid process, becoming less distinct below. The external or interosseous border, faintly marked below, is sharply marked in the middle, and attaches the interosseous membrane. It bifurcates above into two lines which pass to the two ends of the small sigmoid cavity, and enclose a triangular s])ace whicii, with its prominent dorsal border, called tlie supinator ridge, gives origin to the su])inator muscle. The ventral surface gives origin in the concave upper three-fourths to the flexor pro- fundus digitorum, and in the lower fourth, below the oblique pronator ridge, to the pronator qnadratus. In the middle third is the nutrient foramen, directed j upward. The internal surface gives origin to the flexor profundus digitorum in STYLOID PROCESS Fig. 161—The bones of the right fore arm, rear view. (Testut.)139 THE RADIUS. its upper three-fourths, below which it is subcutaneous. The dorsal surface is inclined shghtly outward. To a triangle on its upper fourth, marked otf by an oblique line from the supinator ridge to the dorsal border, the anconeus is inserted behind and internal to the supinator triangle. Below this a vertical ridge separates an inter- nal area, covered by the extensor carpi ulnaris, from an external area, for the origin of the ex- tensors of the thumb and index hnger. The lower extreniily is small, and presents (1) a rounded head with a flattened, semi- lunar articular facet inferiorly, which plays 1 upon the triangular fibro-cartilage, aiid a con- vex facet externally received into the sigmoid cavity of the radius ; (2) the cylindrical styloid I (" pillar-like") pro<-css, which descends from I the inner and back part of the head. To its extremity is attached the internal lateral liga- } ment, and to the depression at its base, exter- nally, the triangular iibro-cartilage. In the • groove behind and between it and the head i glides the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. i The subcidancous parts are the triangular I surface back of the olecranon, the dorsal border, j the lower fourth of the inner surface, the sty- 1 loid, and, in pronation, tlie outer and fore part of the head. Notice that the ulna does not articulate directly with the carpus. Ossification occurs in cartilage from one primary centre for the shaft. The U]>per end of the olecranon, ossified from a secondary cen- tre, joins the shaft in the sixteenth or seven- teenth year. The lower extremity, ossifying from an earlier formed centre, joins the shaft from about the eighteenth to the twentieth year. THE RADIUS. The radius (" spoke "), the outer bone of the forearm, takes little part in the elbow-, but the principal part in the wrist-joint, articulating with the scaphoid, semilunar, and ulna below, the humerus and ulna above. The disc-shaped upper extrerniti/, or head, presents, superiorly, a shallow articu- lar depression with an encircling rim, which articulate respectively with the capi- tellum of the humerus and the groove internal to it, especially in flexion of the j elbow. Its smooth, short, vertical margin is deeper internally, where it articu- lates with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna, than externally, where it is embraced by the orbicular ligament. Below the head is a constricted neck, which joins the shaft opposite the bicipiial tubcrosiUi. The latter, situated ventro- internally, has a rough dorsal ])ortion for insertion of the biceps tendon and a smoother ventral part covered by a bursa. The shaft is triangular, curved outward and slightly backward, and becomes larger below. The internal or mterosseous border, commencing below the tuber- osity, is prominent in the middle three-fifths, and in the lower fifth it divides into two lines, which pass to the two ends of the sigmoid cavity. The interosseous I membrane is attached to it. The ventral and dorsal borders, commencing at the tuberosity, pass obliquely downward and outward as the reidrcd and dorsal obiifpte lines to the junction of the upper and middle thirds, and thence descend to the front and back of the styloid process, becoming less marked below. To the ventral Fig. 162.—The bones of the right fore- arm, front view. (Testut.)140 THE BONES. obliqvie line the flexor sublimis digitorum is attached. The area between the two oblique lines, externally, gives insertion to the siijiinator as far down as the rough impression for the pronator I'adii teres, situated about the middle and at the most prominent part of the exteritnl surface. Below tliis the external surface is covered by the extensor tendons. The ventral sitrfacf gives origin in its ii]>per two-thirds to the flexor longus pollicis, and its lower fourth gives insertion to the ])ronator quadratus. The nutrient foramen, directed upward, is seen above the middle of this surfixce. The dorsal surface in the middle third gives origin to the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis above and to the extensor brevis pollicis below. Its lower third is covei'ed by extensor tendons. The loicer extremity is broad, thick, and quadrilateral. The large inferior or carpal surface, concave and triangular, is divided by a ridge into an outer tri- angular surfoce, which articulates with the scaphoid, and an inner quadrilateral surface, Avhich articulates with the semilunar. At the lower end of the inner surface is the narrow sigmoid carif i/, concave from before backward, which articu- lates Avith the head of the ulna. It is at right angles to the carpal surface, and to the smooth margin between them is attached the base of the triangular fibro- cartilage. A transverse ridge at the lower end of the ventral surface limits the attachment of the pronator quadratus, and to it and the narrow space below it the anterior ligament of the wrist is attached. The outer or dor so-external sur- face is prolonged downward as the stout, pyramidal, subcutaneous styloid process. It is lower than the styloid ]>rocess of the ulna, and is an important landmark in diagnosticating fractures. To its tip is attached the external lateral ligament, and to its base the brachio-radialis. Two grooves, separated by a ridge, are seen on this surface; the ventral one gives passage to the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the extensor brevis pollicis ; the dorsal and inner one, sometimes subdivided by a low ridge, gives passage to the tendons of the extensores carpi radiales longus and brevis. The dorsal surface extends lower than the ventral, and of its two grooves the external narrow one for the extensor longus pollicis is separated from the last-mentioned groove by a ])rominent sub- cutaneous tubercle. The inner groove transmits the extensor communis digi- torum and the extensor indicis tendons. The jiosterior annular ligament converts these grooves into canals by its attachment to the dividing ridges, the styloid pro- cess, and the inner margin. The radius is more deeply placed than the ulna. In supination the two bones are parallel; in pronation the radius crosses the ulna. Ossificcdion jiroceeds from one primary centre in the shaft, a secondary centre in the head, which joins the shaft in the seventeenth year, and a secondary centre in the lower extremity, which appears first, but does not ankylose with the shaft until the twentieth year. THE BONES OF THE HAND. The skeleton of the hand is composed of the bones of the carpus, of the meta- carpus, and the phalanges, forming the skeleton of the wrist, the palm, and the digits respectively. THE CARPAL BONES. The eight carpal bones (Figs. 163-165) are arranged in two rows of four each. The carpus is transversely convex dorsally, and concave on the palmar surface, on which, at the inner and outer extremities of each row, there is a prominence, attaching the anterior annular ligament, which com]detes a canal for the flexor tendons and the median nerve. The upjwr surface of the upper row is convex, articulating with the concavity of the radius and the triangular fibro-cartilage. The convexity extends on to the dorsal more than on to the palmar surface. In141 THE CARPAL BONES. the line of articulation between the two rows the convexity of the os magnum and unciform is received into the concavity of the bones of the first row, and the convexity of the scaphoid is received into the slight concavity of the trapezium and trapezoid. The lower surface of the lower row is irregularly transverse and articulates with the metacarpus. In general the carpal bones are short Fig. 163.—The bones of the right carpus, the distal ends of the forearm bones, and the proximal ends of the I metacarpal bones, ventral aspect. (Testut.) and irregularly cuboidal. The dorsal surfaces, usually the larger, and the pal- mar surfaces, more irregular, are rough for ligamentous attachments. As a rule, j the upper and lower, outer and inner surfaces of these bones are articular to articulate with the bones above and below and on either side ; but a lateral sur- I face of the terminal bones of each row is non-articular. Enumerated from the 1 radial to the ulnar side, the upper row consists of the scaphoid, semilunar, cunei- form, and pisiform, and the lower row of the trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, 1 and unciform. The principal individual points of the separate bones are as I follows : The Scaphoid. The scaphoid ("boat-like"), the largest bone of the ujiper row, is elongated i downward and outward. Of the thi'ee articular surfaces, the upper is convex and triangular, articulating with the radius ; the lower is convex for the trajiezium externally and the trapezoid internally ; and the internal is concave below for the os magnum, flat and crescentic above for the semilunar. The outer end or surflice is prolonged forward into a strong conical tuberosity/, which attaches the annular ligament. The dorsal surface is a mere groove attaching the posterior ligaments of the wrist. The Semilunar. The semilunar (" half moon ") presents four articular surfaces, of which the upper is convex for the radius ; the lower is concave for the os magnum, and, near its inner margin, for the unciform ; the external is crescentic and narrow for the scaphoid; and the internal is quadrilateral and larger for the cuneiform. The Cuneiform. The cuneiform ("wedge-shaped") or jjy/ramidal hone is placed with its blunted apex directed downward and inward. This bone also presents four articularTHE BONES. 142THE CABPAL BONES. 143 facets. The base articulates with tlie semihinar. The upper surfiice is convex and smooth externally for the triangular fibro-cartilage, rough internally for liga- ments. The lower surface is concavo-convex for the unciform. On the palmar surface near the apex is a circular facet for the pisiform bone. The internal lateral ligament of the wrist is attached to the apex. The Pisiform. The inniform (" pea-shaped ") bone is vertically spheroidal, and has a single oval articular facet behind for the cuneiform. The rest of the bone projects for- Avard as one of the internal eminences for the anterior annular ligament, and gives insertion to the flexor carpi ulnaris. The outer side is slightly concave. The Trapezium. The iro^esmm (" table "), rhoml)ic in form, is the most external bone of the lower row, and therefore has but three articular surfaces—a superior, slightly con- cave, for the scaphoid ; an inferior, saddle-shaped, for the base of the first meta- carpal bone ; and an internal, divided by a ridge into an upper and larger for the trapezoid and a lower and smaller for the base of the second metacai'pal bone. On the palmar surface there is a vertical groove for the passage of the flexor carpi radialis tendon, and external to this a ridge or tuberosity forming the second external prominence for the attachment of the anterior annular ligament. The Trapezoid. The trapezoid (" table-like"), the smallest bone of the lower row, has its longest diameter from before backward. Its dorsal surface is nuich larger than the palmar ; its four articular surfaces are nearly continuous, and present supe- riorly a small, concave, triangular facet for the scaphoid; inferiorly, a long saddle-shaped facet for the second metacarpal bone ; externally, a convex facet for the trapezium; and internally, a facet for the os magnum. The Os Magnum. The OS magnum (" great bone "), the largest carpal bone, is elongated verti- cally, and occupies the centre of the wrist. It presents above a rounded head joined by a slightly constricted neck to a quadrilateral bodij below. It articulates above by its rounded head with the socket formed by the scaphoid and semilunar ; below, by three facets, of which the middle is the largest, with the second, third, knd fourth metacarpal bones; externally, with the trapezoid by a small facet below that for the scaphoid ; and internally, by an elongated facet, sometimes two facets, with the unciform. Its broad dorsal surface is larger than the palmar, and is prolonged downward and inward. The Unciform. The Hnci/br;7i, ("hook-shaped ") is named from a large flattened hook-like pro- cess, concave externally, which ])rojects forward from its palmar surface to attach at its apex the anterior annular ligament. Triangular in form, it articulates above by a narrow facet on its apex with the semilunar, below by two facets with the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones ; externally with the os magnum, and internally by a concavo-convex facet inclined upward, with the cuneiform, having but a narrow non-articular surface on the inner side, i The carpal bones afford origin by their palmar surfaces to most of the short muscles of the thumb and little finger. Ossification occurs for each bone from a single centre, Avhich appears after birth. The cai'tilaginous os eentrede, situated dorsally between the scaphoid,THE BONES. 144 OS magnum, and trapezoid in the foetus, is occasionally ossified, but usually suppressed. THE METACARPAL BONES. The metacarpus ("beyond the carpus") (Figs. 164, 165) contains five long bones, which support the fingers and form the skeleton of the palm. They diverge slightly from each other below, and, besides continuing the transverse arch of the carpus, they arc slightly curved longitudinally, forming the hollow of the palm. They are nnndicred from without inward. Tlie first is the broadest and shortest, the second the longest, and the rest decrease in length from the third to the fifth. General Characteristics.—The upper end or base is irregularly cuboidal, and pi'esents two non-articular, rough surfixces for ligamentous and nuiscular attach- ments, a broader dorsal and a narrower ])almar surface ; and three ai'ticular surfaces, an upper for the carpus, and an inner and outer for articulation and ligamentous union Avith each other. The sliaft is triangular and slightly curved, with its concavity In front. On the dorsal surface a ridge starts at the carj)al end, and divides into two lines, each of which ends in a dortsal tubercle on the side of the head, the two enclosing a triangular surface covered by the extensor ten- dons. The dorsal surface on the sides of the ridge attaches the dorsal interossei muscles. The two lateral surfaces separated by a palmar ridge afford attachment to the palmar interossei muscles. The carpal end of the shaft is the most slender part. The shaft of the first metacarpal is broad and flattened, its dorsal surface is smooth, and its palmar aspect looks in\yar(l. The head presents for articulation with the first phalanx a rounded articular surface, broader and extending farthest on the palmar aspect, where it projects into two lateral cornua, or pahnar tubercleti, separated by a groove for the flexor tendons. The sides of the head are flattened, and marked by a depression for the lateral ligaments. The articular surface of the head of the first metacarpal bone is flatter than that of the others, and its two palmar tubercles are jirominent for the two sesamoid bones in the flexor brevis pollic'is tendons. Special Characteristics.—Besides those above given, these concern mainly the bases or carpal extremities. That of the first metacarpal has a saddle-shaped facet for the trapezium and no lateral facet, but a tubercle externally for the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. That of the second metacarpal has no external lateral facet, and three superior facets—a large, concave, central one for the trapezoid, and marginal ones for the os magnum and trapezium. Dorsally, near the external angle it has a tubercle for the extensor carpi radialis longus. That of the tidrd has a prominent projection, the styloid process, at the outer and upper angle of the dorsum, below which the extensor carpi radialis brevis is inserted. That of the fourtlt. has two facets externally, corresponding to two internally on the third, and, besides the main facet for the unciform above, there is a small facet for the OS magnum on the outer angle dorsally. The base of the fifth has no facet inter- nally, but a tuberosity for the extensor carpi ulnaris. Its upper end is saddle- shaped and directed slightly outward. Ossification of the metacarpal bones and phalanges proceeds from one primary centre in the shaft, and a secondary centre in the base of the first metacarpal bone and of the phalanges and in the head of the other metacarpals. The secondary centre joins the shaft by the twentieth year. In the terminal phalanges the shaft centre begins in the distal end. THE PHALANGES. Of the fourteen phalanges ("ranks") (Figs. 164, 165), each finger contains three and the thumb two. Like all long bones, they have two extremities and a shaft. The shafts, semi-cylindrical, are convex dorsally, and the rough margins of the flat palmar surfaces give attachment to the sheaths of the flexor tendons.145 THE BONES OF THE HAND.THE BOXES. 146 The five of the jirst roic are the longest, aud are slightly curved loiigitudiuallv. The thicker upper end, or base, has a transversely elongated, concave articidar iacet (glenoid cavift/), and the distal end, flattened from before backward, has a facet prolonged onto the palmar aspect, and divided into two condyles by a groove. The four of the second row, that of the thumb being wanting, are smaller, bur similar, except that the proximal articular facet has a slight median ridge aud two lateral depressions to fit the condyles of the first row. The five terminal or ungual [from unguis, "a. nail") phcdanges have proximal extremities like those of the second row, with the addition of a palmar depression for the long flexor tendons. The shaft tapers to the flattened, expanded, horseshoe- shaped distal extremity, of which the smooth dorsal surface supports the nail, and the rough palmar surface the pulp of the finger. Taken together, the phalanges of the middle finger are the longest, and next those of the ring, index, little finger, aud thumb, in the order named. THE BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. The bony pelvis includes, besides the sacrum and coccyx, already described, the two hip-bones or the pelvic girdle. The skeleton of the lower limb comprises, besides the hip-bones, the femur in the thigh, the tibia and fibula in the leg, aud the tarsal, metatarsal, and phalangeal bones in the foot. A large sesamoid bone, the patella, is found at the knee. THE HIP-BONE. The hip-bone, or os innominafum ("unnamed bone") (Figs. 166, 167), is irregular in form and shaped somewhat like the blade of a screw-propeller. It is narrowed in the middle, where the acetabulum, or socket for the femur, is seen ex- ternallv,and expanded above and below. The large upper portion forms the/a/« pelvis basin" I, a part of the abdominal wall : the lower portion, perforated by the large thyroid (''shield-like") or obturator stopper")/o/'am<'Ji, forms the lateral aud front parts of the true pelvis, curving inward to meet its fellow. The hip-bone transmits the weight of the body to the femur. The three parts, ilium, ischium, and o-* separate in early life, ankylosed in the adult at the acetabulum, where they meet, are conveniently recognized as distinct in the description of the bone. In following the description hold the back of the coty- loid notch downward, in the natural position of the bone. TIis Ilium. The ilium (" twisted") is the large, upper expanded portion, whose lowtr limit forms the upper two-fifths of the acetabulum, and whose upper border, the crest, presents three lips for attachment of the flat muscles of the abdomen. Tho crest is sinuous, /-shaped, irregularly thickened, and subcutaneous. To the outer lip are attached the tensor vagina? femoris in front, the obliquu^ exteruus in the ventral half, the latissimus in the dorsal half, and the gluteal portion of the fascia lata in the entire length : to the middle ridge, the obliquur iuternus in the ventral two-thirds : to the inner lip, the transversalis in the ven- tral three-fourths, the quadratus lumborum and erector spin* behind, and tJv iliac fascia in the entire length. The crest ends in front in the prominent anterior superior spine, to M hich thi inoruinal (Poupart's) ligament, the tensor vaginje femoris, and the sartorius ar attached. The latter extends on to the notch below, which transmits the exterDa <?utaneons nerve, and separates the superior from the anterior in ferior s^iine. FroD the latter, situated above the acetabulum, the straight tendon of the rectus femori and the ilio-tibial band take origin. Below this spine and between it and the ilio'147 THE HIP-BONE. pectineal eminence, where the ilium and os pubis meet, is seen the inferior iliac noich. This is situated in front of", and above, the acetabulum, and is traversed bv the ilio-psoas muscle. The crest ends behind in the posterior superior spine^ aifordiiig ligamentous attachment, separated by a slight notch from the posterior inferior sjnne, at the Fig. 166.—The right hip-bone, outer surface. (Testut.) lowest and hindermost point of the auricular articular surface. Below the spines is the great .sr/c/"o-Nc/«f(C (" sacro-ischiatic ") notch, bounded above by the ilium, below and in front by the dorsal border of the ischium. The external surface, or clorsvm, flat or convex in front and behind, concave in ; the middle, is marked by the superior, middle, and inferior gluteal lines, which I form the lower limit of the origin of the glutei maximus, medius, and minimus I respectively. The superior gluteal line begins at the crest about 2 inches in front I of its dorsal end, and curves downward to the hind part of the great sciatic notch. ;To the lower part of the space behind it the pyriformis is often attached. The middle gluteal line curves backward and downward from the crest, 1 inch behind its anterior end, to the upper l)order of the great sciatic notch. The inferior gluteal line passes backward from just above the anterior inferior spine to the front of the great sciatic notch. Between the inferior gluteal line and the margin of the acetabulum, and a little behind the anterior inferior spine, is a rough surface for the reflected tendon of the rectus femoris. On the internal surface of the ilium is seen in front a smooth, concave, triangu- lar area, the iliac fossa, giving origin to the iliacus muscle, and behind a smaller, uneven surface. The latter is divided into an inferior auricular (ear-shaped) cartilage-covered surface for articulation with the sacrum, and a superior rough surface for the attachment of the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments below and the erector spinae above. The iliac fossa is limited below by the ilio-pectineal ("ilio- : pubal") line, which forms the brim of the true pelvis, and extends between the auricular surface and the spine of the os pubis. Below the auricular surface and the dorsal end of the ilio-pectineal line is a small, smooth area of the ilium, which forms a small jmrt of the wall of the true pelvis.148 THE BONES. The Ischium. The ischium (" hip "), situated dorso-inferiorly, forms superiorly the dorsal and lower two-fifths of the acetabulum and nearly all of its non-articular base ; and below it terminates in the tuberosifi/. This is the thickest part of the bone, upon which the body rests in sitting, and from which the ramus ("branch") ascends to join that of the os pubis to assist in bounding the obturator foramen. The trian- gular upper ])art, or bodt/, presents externally, between the acetabular rim and the tuberosity, a groove for the upper border of the obturator externus. Internally it and the tuberosity form a flattened surface, which bcninds tlie true pelvis laterally, and from which the obturator internus arises. Its dorso-internal border completes the great sacro-sciatic notch, which is limited below l)y the prominent spine of the ischium. To the sjiine the small sciatic ligament is attached behind, the coccygeus and levator ani internally, and the gemellus superior dorso-externally, where the spine is crossed by the internal pudic vessels and nerve. The cartilage-clad small sciatic notch, over which the obturator internus glides, separates the spine from the tuberosity below. The tuberosity presents behind a rough quadrate surface, from Fig. 167.—The right hip-bone, inner surface. (Testut.) the upper and outer portion of which the semi-membranosus arises, and from the lower and inner part the semi-tendinosus and biceps. This area is separated by a transverse ridge from a pyriform, rough surface in front of it, which is con- tinuous with the lower border of the ramus and attaches the adductor magnus. The sharp inner lip of the tuberosity attaches the falciform prolongation of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and from the outer lip the quadratus femoris arises. The ramus, flattened like the descending ramus of the os pubis, with which it is continuous, presents a thin upper margin bounding the obturator foramen, and a thicker, everted, lower margin for ligamentous and muscular attachment. From its outer surface the obturator externus and adductor magnus arise, and from its inner surface arise the obturator internus, crus penis, erector penis, and, dorsally, the transversus perinei.THE OS PUBIS. 149 The Os Pubis. The ossa pubis (" bones of the pubic") form the front wall of the pelvis. Each consists of a flat, quadrate body, situated internally and joined with the ilium and ischium, respectively, by two rami, the horizontal and descending. The ven- tral surface of the body and of the descending ramus, continuous with it, is rough for the origin of muscles. The corresponding dorsal or pelvic surface is smooth. From the ventral surface arise the obturator externus, the gracilis, and the three adductors ; from the dorsal surface, the obturator internus, levator ani, compressor urethrje, erector penis, and the crus penis. The inner border of the combined jmbic and. ischiatic rami of the two sides, forming the pubic arch, is rough and more or less everted, especially in the female. The outer border of the body and descending 7-amus is narrow, and bounds the obturator foramen. The iioier border of the pubic body presents an elongated, oval surface which is joined by cartilage to the oppo- site bone, forming the symphysis pubis. The broad, rough upper border or pubic crest stretches from the upper end of the symphysis, the angle, outward to the prominent spiiie of tJie os pubis. To the crest are attached the rectus abdominis and pyramidalis and the conjoined tendon ; to the spine, the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament. The horizontal ramus extends from the l)ody to the ilium at the ilio- pectineal eminence, and expands at its outer end to form the ventral fifth of the acetabulum. More or less triangular on section, its upper border is the pubic portion of the ilio-pectineal line, to which Giml)ernat's ligament and a part of the conjoined tendon are attached internally. The triangular surface in front of this line gives origin to the pectineus, and is bounded below by the jirominent obturator crest, which extends from the pubic spine to the cotyloid notch. The under sur- face bounds the obturator foramen sujjeriorly, and presents externally the deep oblique obturator groove for the obturator vessels and nerve. The acetabulum (" small cuj>"), or cotyloid cavity, is a nearly hemispherical cavity which looks outward, downward, and forward. It consists of a horseshoe-shaped marginal artic- ular portion, which lodges the femoral head, and a central and inferior depressed, non-artic- ular portion, which lodges a mass of fat. The upper part of the margin is the stoutest and most prominent; the lower part is deficient close to the obturator foramen, forming the cotyloid 7iotch, which is bridged across by the transverse ligament, forming the cotyloid fora- men for the passage of a nerve and vessels into the joint and to the head of the femur. To the margin of the articular portion the cotyloid iligament is attached, deepening the cavity so as to be more than a hemisphere, and outside of this the capsular ligament arises. The obturator or thyroid foramen, below and internal to the acetalnilum, is formed by and situated between the ischium and os pubis. It is closed by the fibrous obturator membrane, which is attached to its margins except near the groove for the obturator vessels and nerve, in its upper margin. In the female it is broad and triangular, in the male oval and elongated downward and backward. The iliac crest, pubic si)ine, tuberosity of the ischium, and combined rami of the OS pubis and ischium (bounding the perineum) can be felt subcutaneously. The anterior superior iliac spine and the pubic sjMue are of great importance as andmarks. The hip-bone is much thickened along the lines of greatest pressure —I. e., between the auricular surface and the upper j)art of the acetabulum and uberosity of the ischium. There is a thick ridge running from the acetabulum 0 the crest, but the centres of the iliac fossa and of the acetabulum are both thin. Fig. 168.—Development of the hip-bone, showing the union of the three portions in the acetaliulum. (Testut.)THE BONES. 150 Ossification (Fig. 168) takes place in cartilage from a centre for each of the three parts, ilinni, ischium, and os jnibis. A secondary centre appears later in the Y-shaped cartilage, where they meet in the acetabulum. This fuses with and joins together the three parts from the sixteenth to the twentieth year. Secondary nuclei appear for the iliac ci'est, the anterior inferior sjiine, the ischial tuberosity, and the pubic crest from the tifteenth year on, and unite with the main bone about the twentieth year. THE PELVIS. The pelvis (Figs. 169, 170), whose constituent parts, the two hip-bones, con- nected behind by the sacrum and coccyx, have already been descriljed, is divided into two ]iarts by a plane passing through the sacral promontory behind, the ilio- pectineal lines laterally, and the pubic crests in front. The part above this plane, composed of tlie ilia, belongs to the abdominal cavity, but is called the false pelvis. The limiting line is called the brim, and the included heart-shaped space the inlet of the lower part, or true pelvis. The outlet, or lower circum- FiG. 169.—The planes of the pelvis. (Tostut.) ference of the pelvic cavity, presents three prominences—the ischial tuberosities laterally and the coccyx behind—separated by three notches, the jiubic arch in front and the two sciatic notches behind. The pubic arch is the angular space in front beneath the symphysis and bounded by the combined rami of the iscliia and ossa pubis. The sciatic notches are bridged across and converted into fora- mina by the sacro-sciatic ligaments, which bound the outlet of the ])elvis as well as the perineum dorso-laterally. The cavity of the pelvis is shallow (1^2 inches) in front, where it is bounded by the os pubis, and deepest (5-5^ inches) behind, where the curved .sacrum and coccyx form its bony wall. The ischia form the lateral walls. The axis of the pelvis, or the line drawn through the centres of the planes of the inlet, cavity, and outlet of the pelvis, is curved with its concavity forward. The position of the pelvis in the erect attitude of the body is so tilted or inclined that the plane of the inlet forms an angle of 50° to 60° with the hori- zon, so that a line drawn at right angles to the centre of the plane of the in-let, if prolonged upward, would about meet the umbilicus. Furthermore, the base of the sacrum is raised about 3^ inches above the upper margin of the symphysis pubis, and the tip of the coccyx is 4—1 inch above the lower end of the symphysis. The plane of the outlet is more nearly horizontal, formnig an151 THE FEMUR. angle of about 15° with the horizon. This tilting of the pelvis brings the sacrum more or less on top, where, however, it docs not form the keystone of the arch, for its widest aspect looks downward into the pelvis ; and the bone is held in place mainly by the strong posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, and only slightly by the projection of the lower and ventral margins of the ilio-auricnlar surfaces. The weight of the body is transmitted from the sacro-iliac joint in an arch along the massive ilio-pectineal line to the acetabulum in the standing position, and to the ischial tuberosities in the sitting posture. The horizontal rami of the ossa pubis Fig. 170.—The female pelvis, rear view. (Testut.) form the counter-arches or ties to the former arch, the combined ischial and pubic rami to the latter arch. The pressure along the arches and counter-arches when the bones are softened by rickets or osteomalacia causes various deformities of the pelvis. 8ex differences relate to both size and form. In the female the bones are lighter and smoother. The cavity is broader, more capacious, and less deep. The symphysis is not so deep, the pubic arch wider, the i.schial tuberosities more expanded, and the sacrum flatter and broader. The sacral promontory is less projecting, giving the pelvic inlet a more oval shape. The thyroid foramina are more triangular. The differences of sex are noticeable in early life ; but in gen- eral all pelves are more or less of the male type until about puberty, when the female characteristics become marked. The following table represents the average measurements of the pelvis in inches : Diameters. Male. Temale. Brim. Cavity. Outlet. Brim. Cavity. Outlet. 5 4| U H 5 4f Conjugate or ventro-dorsal 4 4i 3i 5 4i Oblique (from the sacro-iliac joint to the ilio-pectineal 4f 4i 4 5 5^ 4J THE FEMUR. The femur (Figs. 171, 172), the largest and longest bone in the body, is inclined inward and slightly backward, so as to approach its fellow inferiorly. It extends between and articulates Avith the hip-bone above and the tibia below. The upper extremity includes the head, the neck, and the two trochanters,THE BONES. 152 which attach tlie rotator muscles. The neck extends inward, upward, and slightly- forward from the sliaft to the head. It is compressed from before backward, but vertically expanded, especially where it joins the shaft. Its length is greater behind and below, and it is concave behind. Its axis forms an angle of 125° with that of the shaft. At birth this angle avei-ages 160°. During growth, owing to the weight of the body, it decreases to from 140° to 110° ; but after growth is completed it remains tixed. It is less in females and short subjects. Fig. 171.—The right femur, front view. (Testut.) Fig. 172.—The right femur, rear view. (Testut.) The head is received into the acetabulum of the hip-bone. It forms more than half a sphere, and is covered with cartilage, except at a small ])it behind and below the centre, to the upper half of which the ligamentum teres is attached. At the junction of the neck and shaft the two trochanters project. The great tro- chanter is a stout, quadrilateral plate, continuous with the outer surface of the shaft, which reaches nearly to the highest level of the neck. On its outer surface the gluteus medius is attached to an oblique line extending doAvnward and forward153 THE FEMim. from its dorso-superior angle. The lower limit of this surface and the nj^per extent of the vastus externus are marked by a horizontal line, which, in front of the trochanter, ascends to an eminence, the Uihcrde, at the junction of the tro- chanter with the neck. Internal to the trochanter and between it and the neek is the dee}) digital or trochanteric J'osm, which receives the tendon of the obturator externus. Above and in front of this fossa the o])turator intcrnus and the gemelli are attached. Behind the latter the pyriformis is attached to the narrow free upper border. The gluteus minimus is inserted upon the anterior border, while the thick, rounded j)oderior border is continuous with the posterior intertrochanteric line, which runs downward and inwaixl to the small trochanter and limits the neck behind. The small trochanter, receiving the insertion of the ilio-psoas, projects as { a pyramidal eminence from the dorso-iuternal aspect, where the lower end of the neck joins the shaft. The anterior intertrochemteric live limits the neck in front, and attaches the thickened front part of the capsular ligament. It is the upper part of the spiral line, which runs from the tubercle of the femur down- ward and inward to the linea aspera, passing a little in front of the small tro- j chanter. The shaft, arched convexly foi'ward, is nearly cylindrical, except for a flattening I in front and a prominent buttress-ridge, the linea asjiera (" rough line ") behind ; I so that three rather indistinct surfaces, a ventral and two lateral, may be dis- I tinguished, which are covered by the three vasti muscles. The shaft exjiands as I it approaches the lower extremity. The linea aspjera- presents in the central third ; two lips and a rough, narrow interval often called the middle lip. In the upper I third the external lip extends up to the great trochanter as the prominent ghdecd ridge for the gluteus maximus. The internal lip is continuous with the spiral I line, while a third line, giving insertion to the pectineus, ascends to the small trochanter from the intermediate space. Inferiorly the two lips diverge, and extend to the condyles as the external and internal condylar ridges, enclosing a flat triangular area, the floor of the upper part of the popliteal space. The inner ridge is interrupted by the crossing of the femoral vessels in the upper part, and ends below in the sharp adductor tubercle, to which the lowest fibres of the adductor magnus are attached. The caned of the mdrient artery is directed upward in the linea aspera a little above its centre. The follow'ing muscles, besides those 'already mentioned, are attached to the linea aspera and its prolongations : To the inner lip is attached the vastus internus, and to its lower two-thirds the adduc- :tor longus ; to the outer lij) the vastus externus ; and to its lower two-thirds and the extei'nal condylar ridge the short head of the bicc])s. The adductor magnus is inserted below into the inner condylar ridge and the adductor tubercle, above, just internal to the gluteal ridge, as far as the quadratus femoris, and in the mid- dle third to the intermediate space. The adductor brevis is attached to the upper third of the intermediate space below and external to the jjectineus. A faint line, the linea quadrcdi, for insertion of the quadratus femoris, is sometimes visible, and passes upward from the outer side of the small trochanter to the middle of the posterior intertroclianteric line, where the tubercle of the ejuadratus is sometimes 5een. Part of the iliacus is attached to an area below the small trochanter, inter- aal to the pectineus. The lower extremity presents two condyles, external and internal, most promi- lent behind, where they are separated by the deep intercondylar notch, while in ront they are united by the trochlear (articular) surface for the patella. The part )f the trochlea external to its vertical groove is the larger, and is very prominent ilong its outer edge, serving to resist the tendency to outward dislocation of the )atella. Continuous with the trochlea are the cartilage-clad lower and dor- al surfaces of the condyles, which, though of different curvatures in different i»arts, articulate with the tibia. Tlie external condyle is the broader, the internal he narrower and the more prominent laterally and behind, while in front it bends utward to the patellar surface. In the natural or oblique position of the bone he lower surfaces of the two condyles are in the same plane; but if held verti-154 THE BONES. cally tlie inner is the lower. (3n the lateral surface of each condyle the cor- responcUno; lateral ligament of the knee-joint is attached to a rough tiibcrositij. Below the outer tuberosity the poplitcus arises from a depression, from which a groove passing backward and upward is occupied by the tendon of the muscle in flexion of the knee. To the mesial surfaces bounding the intercondylar notch the crucial ligaments are attached, the anterior to the external condyle behind, the posterior to the internal condyle in front. Immediately above and behind con- dyles the two heads of the gastrocnemius muscle arise, and above its outer head is the origin of tlie jdantaris. The great trochanter, the two condyles, and, during flexion, the trochlear surface for the patella, are the only subcutaneous parts of the bone. The great trochanter is an important landmark. The femur averages 18 inches in length in the European male, and 17 inches iu the female. It is inclined inward at an angle of about 9° with the sagittal plane in the male, and at a greater angle in the female. Tlie femur presents an angle of toi'sion between the upper and lower extremities, but in the opposite direction to that of the humerus, and ranging between 5° and 20°. The lamelke of the cancellous tissue at the upper extremity are arranged in arches, which cross one another and strengthen the neck of the bone, through which the weight of the body is transmitted from the head to the shaft. A nearly vertical plane of com- pact bone (calcar femorale, " femoral spur ") projects into the interior, toward the great trochanter, from a little in front of the small trochanter, and strengthens the concave side of the neck. It is liable to absorption in old age. The de- pression for the ligameutum teres is wanting in a small proportion of eases, and in a still smaller number is replaced by a tubercle. The gluteal ridge is some- times so prominent as to be called the third trochanter. Ossification occurs in the shaft from one centre, which ajipears very early. The lower epiphysis appears as a single centre. One after another centre appears for the head, great and small trochanters. These join the shaft as follows : small i trochanter, seventeenth year ; great trochanter, eighteenth year ; head, nineteenth ! year ; condyles, twentieth to twenty-first year. The neck is an outgrowth from the shaft. The line of fusion of the condylar epiphysis with the shaft is below ! the adductor tubercle and the origins of tlie gastrocnemius muscle. i t THE PATELLA. The patella {" little dish "), or knee-pan {¥\gs. 173, 174), is a flattened, triangu- lar sesamoid bone in the quadriceps extensor tendon at the front of the knee-joint., APEX APEX Fig. 173.—The right patella, ventral surface. Fig. 174.—The right patella, dorsal surface. (Testut.) (Testut.) Its slightly ccmvex ventral surface is longitudinally striated for the fibrous expan- sion of the tendon. Its dorsal surface is mostly cartilage-clad to articulate with the trochlear surface of the femur, and is divided by a vertical ridge into a largeij outer, concave portion and a smaller inner, convex one, to articulate with th(i155 THE TIBIA. outer and inner sides respectively of the troc base, is bevelled in front, nnd attaches the tei quadriceps extensor. The apex, directed downward, and the border on either side of it attach the ligamentum jiatelke, while tlie rough area of the dorsal surface above the apex is in relation to a mass of fat. In front of the patella is a bursa se]5arating it from the skin. The entire articular surface is not in contact with the femur at any time, but one part after another as the knee is moved. The patella is liable to transverse frac- ture from muscular action, and, as its blood- supply comes largely from above, care should be taken in dealing with the upper fragment blear surface. The upper border, or idons of the muscles composing the Fig. 175.—The upper surface of the right tibia. (Testut.) not to strangulate it. THE 1 The ^i6m ("shin") (Figs. 175-177) is the inner, larger, and more forward of the bones of the leg, and conveys the weight of the body from the femur to the astragalus. The upper extremity, or Jiead, is thick and inclined slightly backward. It is expanded on each side into a massive tuberosity, whose upper aspect presents a slightly concave articular surface, which receives the condyles of the femur. Of these articular surfaces, the inner is longer from before backward and more concave ; the outer is smaller, flatter, and more circular. Both are flattened per- ipherally, where the semilunar fibro- cartilages rest upon them and deepen the socket for the femoral condyles. Projecting upward, between these sur- faces, is the spine of the tibia, which is laterally bifid. To rough depressions between the articular surfaces are at- tached in front of the spine the anterior crucial ligament, with the forward ex- tremities of the semilunar cartilages, and behind the spine the posterior cru- cial ligament with the hind extremities of the semilunar cartilages. The de- pression behind the spine is continued backward into a notch, the popliteal notch, which separates the tuberosities posteriorly. In front the tuberosities are continuous, and form on the anterior surface of the head a triangle whose apex points downward and ends at the tubercle, the lower end of which attaches the ligamentum patellse, its upper smooth part being separated from the ligament SPINE Fig. 176.—The right tibia and fibula in their nor- mal relations, front view. (Modified from Testut.) by a bursa. Upon it the body rests in156 THE BONES. kneeling. At the outer angle of this triangular surface is a prominence to which tlie ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata is attached. The larger, internal tuberosity is marked behind by a horizontal groove for the insertion of the semi- membranosus tendon, and the external tuberosity presents postero-externally a rounded articular facet for the head of the fibula. The three-sided shaft of the tibia is very thick above and tapers toward the lower end, where it again expands slightly. The internal sarface is convex and subcutaneous, except at the upper end, Avhere, internal to the tubercle, the sar- torius, gracilis, and semi-tendinosus tendons are attached. The external surface is concave in its upper two-thirds, where it gives origin to the tibialis anterior, convex below, where it looks more for- ward and is covered by the extensor tendons. On the posterior surface the popliteus is inserted on a triangular area at the upper end, limited below by the oblique line, which passes from the fibular facet downward and inward to the in- ternal border, and attaches the soleus muscle. Below the oblique line this surface is divided by a longitudinal ridge into an inner portion giving origin to the flexor longus digitorum, and an outer for the tibialis posterior. At the upper part of this surface and below the oblique line is found the large foramen for the imtrient artery, directed down- INNER TU- BEROSITY INNER MALLEOLUS OUTER TUBEROSITY STYLOID PROCESS border, or shin, the POSTERO-EX- TERNAL BORDER ward. The anterior commencing above, just below tubercle, is subcutaneous, sinuous, and sharp in its upper two-thirds, rounded in its lower third, where it passes to the front of the internal malleolus. The external or interosseus border attaches the interosseous membrane and bifurcates near the lower end, thus enclosing a triangular area for the inferior interos- seous ligament. The internal border extends from the back of the internal tuberosity above to the back of the in- ternal malleolus below. The internal lateral ligament is attached to its upper 3 inches, the soleus muscle to its middle third. The lower extremity is somewhat quad- rilateral, and is expanded transversely. It is prolonged downward, internally, as a flattish, subcutaneous process, the ivr ternal malleolus, from the tip and mar- gins of which the internal lateral liga- ment of the ankle arises. The fore part of its external surface is articular, for the inner lateral facet of the astragalus, and is continuous with the inferior quadrilateral articular surface of the extremity, which articulates with the upper surface of the astragalus. This inferior fiicet is concave from before backward, and is narrower, and descends lower behind than in front. Behind the malleolus is a groove for the tibialis posterior and the flexor longus digitorum, while flirther externally the flexor longus pollicis slightly [MALLEOLUS GROOVE FOR PERONEI GROOVE FOB FLEX. LONG, HALL. GROOVE FOR FLEX. LONG, DIGIT. GROOVE FOR TIBIALIS POST. Fig. 177.—The rijjht tibia and fibula in their nor- mal relations, rear view. (Testut.)157 THE FIBULA. oTooves the posterior border. The external surface of the lower extremity of the bono, except for a narrow articular border below, is rough for ligaments which attach it to the fibula. The tibia is twisted, so that when the axis of tlie upper end is transverse that of the lower end is inclined from without inward and forward at an angle aver- aging 6°-20°, but sometimes varying between 0° and 48°. Ossification.—Each epi2)hysis ossifies from a single centre. That in the upper end includes the tubercle and appears first. The lower end unites with the shaft at the eighteenth or nineteenth year, the upper end in the twenty-first or twenty- second year. THE FIBULA. i The fibula ("clasp" or "brace") (Figs. 176, 177) is the slender outer bone j of the leg. It reaches lower than, but not as high as, the tibia. Its upper end 1 is behind the plane of the lower end, and its shaft is slightly curved and very I variable in its contour. (The Greek name of this bone is perone, the adjective I from which (" peroneal") is synonymous with " fibular.") ! The iqxper exfremih/ or Jtcad is irregularly expanded, and presents above and i internally a small obliquely placed articular facet, looking upward, inward, and forward, articulating with the facet on the outer tuberosity of the tibia. Behind I and slightly external to the facet rises a conical eminence, the styloid process, to I which the short external lateral ligament of the knee is attached, while to a slight ' depression in front of and external to it are attached the external lateral ligament and the tendon of the biceps. The loiver extremity is a thick pyramidal process which forms the external mal- < leolus (" little hammer "). The latter is lower, more posterior, and more promi- nent than the internal malleolus. Its inner surface presents in front a triangular facet for articulation with the onter fiicet on the astragalus, above which is a rough triangular surface for the inferior interosseous ligament. Behind the facet is a rough dejiression for the attachment and reception of the hind fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle. The posterior surface is grooved for the peronei longus and brevis. The external surface is subcutaneous and continuous with a subcutaneous triangular surface tapering upward for two or three inches upon the shaft. The shaft has four variable surfaces, each giving origin to a muscle or a group of muscles which produce a particular motion of the foot. The four borders limiting these surfaces attach fibrous septa separating the muscles or muscle- I groups. The lower fourth of the shaft is twisted outward. The well-marked 1 antero-external border begins in front of the head, and bifurcates in the lower INTERNAL BORDER- FIBULA Fig. 178—Horizontal section of tlie bones of the leg at the junction of the upper and middle thirds, show- ing their borders and surfaces and the relations of the interosseous membrane. (Testut.) j fourth to include the triangular subcutaneous surface above mentioned. To it is attached the anterior tibial fascia which separates the peronei longus and brevis, which pronate the foot and occupy the external or pronedor surface, from the extensores longus digitorum and proprius hallucis and the peroneus tertius, which158 THE BONES. ai'ise from the narrow anterior or flexor surface, and flex the ankle on eontinuing their primary action. The external surface turns dorsally in the lower fourth to become continuous with the posterior surface of the malleolus. The antero-inter- nal or interosseous border (Fig. 178) is close to the antero-external border above but diverges from it below, where, an inch or more above the malleolus, it ends at the apex of a rough triangular area which attaches the inferior interosseous ligament. This border attaches the interosseous membrane which se])aratcs the i muscles arising from the anterior surfixce from the tibialis posterior, which supi- iiates the ankle and arises from the fusiform interned or supinator surface. The i latter surface occupies the upjjer two-thirds only of the shaft. It is separated i from the posterior surface by the postero-internal border, which joins the interos- seous border in the lower third, and attaches a fibrous septum separating the i muscles which arise from the surfaces on either side. The posterior or extensor \ surface, becoming more internal below, attaches the soleus above and the flexor I longus hallucis below. The latter muscles are separated from the peronei by a ! sejjtum attached to the prominent postero-external border, which passes from the styloid process to the back of the malleolus. The nutrient foramen, directed downward, is seen in the middle third of the posterior surface. The head, the outer surface of the malleolus, and the triangular area above it are subcutaneous; otherwise the shaft is covered by muscles. Fracture occurs very commonly an inch or two above the malleolus. Ossificrdion.—The lower epiphysis, although it ossifies first, joins the shaft about the twentieth or twenty-first year, Avhile the upper or more vestigial epiphysis remains separate until the twenty-second to the twenty-fourth year. THE BONES OF THE FOOT. The skeleton of the foot is composed of three groups of bones—those of the j tarsus ("the flat of the foot"), metatarsus ("beyond the tarsus"), and digits. The ' bones of the foot, although resembling those of the hand, are modified in the direc- i tion of greater firmness, and are in a position of permanent pronation and dorsal i flexion. | THE TARSAL BONES. The tarsus contains seven bones—the astragalus, calcaneum, cuboid, navicular, | and the three cuneiform bones. The astragalus (" a die ") GROOVE FOR FLF" LONG. HALL. The Astragalus. , or tcdus (Figs. 179, 181, 183, 184), occupies the upper part of the arch of the foot, where it articu- , lates with the tibia above and internally, and with i the fibula externally. It receives the weight of the ^, body from the tibia, and transmits it by articulation to the calcaneum lielow and the navicular in front. Its long axis is directed forward and inward to the convex anterior extremity, or Jiead,, which is joined by a slightly constricted neckio the main part, or body, behind. The upypersurfaceAs occupied by the trochlear articular surface for the tibia. This is convex from before backward, and slightly concave transversely. It is In'oader in front than liehind, and continuous with the lateral facets for the malleoli. The facet on the outer surface, for the external malleolus, is triangular and vertically concave ; that on the inner] surface, for the internal malleolus, is smaller, nar- row, and pyriform ; antl to the rough surface below, is attached the deep portion of the deltoid ligament. The under surface ])resents! a deep groove for the interosseous ligament, which jsasses from within obliquely' Fig. 179.—Right astragalus, under surface. (Testut.)159 THE CUBOID. outward and forward to tlie neck, and separates the two facets wliicli articulate with the calcaneum. The posterior facet is concave from bcliind forward ; the anterior is convex and rests upon the facet on the sustentacuhini tali of the os calcis. The anterior facet is continuous in front with the oval facet on the head, for the navicular, though there intervenes between them internally a small facet Avhich rests upon the inferior caleaneo-scaphoid ligament. The podcrior surface is a mere narrow border, grooved internally for the flexor longus hallucis. The tubercle bounding this groove externally attaches the posterior band of the exter- nal lateral ligament of the ankle, and sometimes is found as a separate bone, the OS trigonum (" triangular l)one "). Fig. 180.—Right calcaneum, internal surface. (Testut.) The Calcaneum. The calcaneum ("heel") or os calcis (Figs. 180-183), the largest bone of the foot, projects backward and downward to form the heel, which acts as a fulcrum for the calf-muscles, and transmits most of the weight of the body to the ground. Its long axis is directed for- ward and a little outward from its en- larged posterior extremity. The upper surface presents in its fore part two facets for articulation with the astragalus. The larger, hinder, and external facet is convex from before backward; tlic forward one is long, concave, often subdivided, and is located on the upper surface of the sustentaculum, tali (" su])port of the astragalus"), a flat,shelf-like process projecting inward on a level with the upper surface. Betw^ecn these two facets is a groove for the interosseous ligament, passing obliquely forward and outward to a rough surface where the extensor brevis digitorum arises. The under surface is narrow', rough, and transversely convex. It ends behind in two tubercles, which attach plantar muscles and the plantar fascia. The inner tubercle is the larger, the outer the more prominent. In front of these the long plantar ligament is attached while the short plantar ligament is attached to the anterior tubercle at the fore end of this surface and to the shallow groove in front of it. The inner surface presents a concavity between the inner tubercle behind and the sustentaculum tali in front. The under sur- face of the latter ]:)resents a groove continuous with that at the l)ack of the astragalus for the flexor longus hallucis. The outer surface, rough, flat, and subcutaneous, presents at its fore part two sliglit grooves, the up^jer for the peroneus brevis, the lower for the peroneus longus, separated by a ridge or tubercle, the peroneal spine. The posterior surface is smooth above, and separated by a bursa from the tendo-calcaneus (Achillis), which is attached below^ On the anterior sxirface is a saddle-shaped articular facet for the cuboid. The calcaneum and astragalus are both very vascular. The veins of the former emerge mostly on the inner side, wdiere they are less exposed to pressure. The Cuboid. The cuboid ("cube-like") (Figs. 181-183) lies on the outer side of the foot, between the calcaneum behind and the fourth and fifth metatarsals in front. Although cuboidal, the four surfaces adjoining the external converge to it, giving the bone a pyramidal shape. Posferiorli/, it articulates with the calca- neum by a saddle-shaped facet prolonged backward at the lower and inter- nal angle, beneath the calcaneum. Anteriorli/, a smaller facet is divided into an outer triangular and an inner quadrilateral portion for the fifth and fourth160 THE BONES. metatarsal bones respectively, ward, is tiat and non-articular. The upper surface, directed somewhat out- The lower sui-face presents a prominent ridge or fuherositi/, directed obli([nely inward and forward, in front of which is a deep groove for the peroncus longus. To the ridge and the triangular surface behind it are attaclicd the plantar liga- ments. On the narrow external surface or border the outer end of the ridge is usually facetted for the bend in the peroneus longus tendon. The internal surface presents near its middle and upjier part a facet for the external cunei- form, and oftentimes beliind this a second facet for the navicular, while the rest of the surface is rough for intei'osseous ligaments. The The Navicular. nacicnlar ("boat-shaped") or Fig. 181 from above. shortest, I'eceived. scapJwkl bone (Figs. 181-184), situated on the inner side of the foot between the as- tragalus and the cuneiform bones, is com- pressed from before backward. Proxi- mally its concavity articidates with the head of the astragalus. Its convex dis- tal surface is subdivided into three tri- angular facets for the cuneiform bones. Above it is rough and convex, below more narrow and uneven, externally rough for ligaments, with an inconstant facet for the cuboid. Internally it is prolonged downward and inward into the prominent navicular tuberosity, which attaches part of the tibialis posterior, and, being subcutaneous, is an important landmark in finding the medio-tarsal (Chopart's) joint. The Cuneiform. The three cuneiform bones, named re- spectively from their position from with- in outward, internal, middle, and external, are wedge-shaped, and lie between the navicular and the three inner metatarsal bones. Their proximal surfaces, articu- lating with the navicular, are concave and in the same transverse line ; their distal surfaces, articulating with the three inner metatarsals, are convex or flat, and the middle cuneiform being the a deep recess is formed, into which the base of the second matatarsal is -The bones of the right foot, viewed (Testut.) The Internal Cuneiform. The int.ernal cuneiforrn {F\gs. 181,182,184), the largest of the three, has the base of the wedge directed downward on the inner border of the foot. The distal,THE METATARSAL BONES. 161 kidney-shaped facet for tlie Ixise of tlio first metatarsal is nuich larger than the proximal pyriform facet for the navicular. On the internal surface is an oblique shallow gi'oove for the tibialis anterior tendon, leading to an oval facet antero- 1 inferiorly where the tendon is in part attached. On the rougli, concave exter- nal surface there is an L-shajied facet along the u]iper and hind borders, which articulates with the middle cuneiform, exce]it in front, where a distinct facet is marked off" for the inner side of the base of the second metatarsal bone. The Middle Cuneiform. The middle cuneiform (Figs. 181-183), the smallest of the thi'ee, has its base I directed upward. The facets in front and behind are wedge-shaped, that in front for the second metatarsal being slightly smaller. On the inner surface is an L- j shaped facet along its npper and hind borders corresjjonding with that on the internal cuneiform. On the outer surface a facet along its hind border articu- lates with the external cuneiform. The External Cuneiform. The external cuneiform (Figs. 181-183) also has its base directed upward. Continuous with the triangular facet for the base of the third metatarsal, at the fore part of each lateral surface, are small facets, internally for the second j metatarsal and externally for the fourth metatarsal. The internal surface has in addition a facet along its hind border for the middle cuneiform, and the external j surface has a larger facet bellind and above for the cuboid. The Metatarsal Bones. The five metatarscd bones (Figs. 181-184) are numbered from within outward. They closely resemble the metacarpal bones in having irregular cuboidal bases, articulating with the same num]:)cr of bones as do the metacarpal ; in having tapering triangular shafts, slightly concave from end to end on tlie plantar aspect; and in having laterally compressed heads with articular facets extending onto the plantar surfaces, where they arc grooved for the flexor tendons, and with lateral tubercles and dcj)ressions for the lateral ligaments. The line of their bases slopes from within outward and backward, and is interi'upted by the mortising of the second between the intei'nal and external cuneiform bones. The first metaiarsal, the stoutest and shortest, lias on its base a largo, slightly concave, kidney-shaped facet for the internal cuneiform, and an inconstant facet externally for the second metatarsal. The lower part of the base projects down- ] ward and slightly outward as the tubcrositij, which attaches part of the peroneus j longus externally and of the tibialis anterior internally. On the plantar surface of the large head are two deep grooves for the sesamoid bones. The second metatarsal is the longest; the others diminish in length to the fifth. Its base articulates in the mortise with the three cuneiform bones, and externally by two facets with the third metatarsal, and occasionally internally with the first metatarsal. The base of the th ird metatarsal articulates proximally with the external cunei- form, internally by two facets with the second metatarsal, and externally by a, single facet with the fourth metatarsal. The base of the fourth 7netatarsrd articulates proximally with the cuboid, internally with the tliird metatarsal by a single facet, and usually with the exter- 1 nal cuneiform. Externally there is a single facet for the fifth metatarsal, bordered by a deep groove for ligaments. The base of the fifth metedarsal articulates proximally Avitli the cuboid, inter- nally with the fourth metatarsal. On its outer asjiect it projects as a large rough tuberosity upon which the tendon of the peroneus brevis is inserted. Being sub- cutaneous, it is an important landmark on the outer border of the foot. 11162 THE BONES. THE PHALANGES. The plmlanges (Figs. 181-184) resemble so closely those of the fingers that only the differences need be noticed. Those of the great toe are larger than those of the thumb, while those of the other toes are much smaller than those of the DISTAL PHALANGES Fig. 182.—The bones of the right font, viewed from below. (Testut.) corresponding fingers. The shafts of the phalanges of the first row, in the four smaller toes, are narrowed in the middle, being compressed laterally. In the same toes the phalanges of the second row are very short and stunted, especiallyTHE FOOT AS A WHOLE. 163 those of the fonrtli and fifth toes, which are not infi-equently ankylosed with the terminal phahuiges. The two sesamoid bones in tlic tendon of the flexor brevis hallucis glide in 1 the two grooves on the plantar aspect of the head of the first metatarsal bone. Sesamoid bones occasionally occur elsewhere in the foot. Ossification.—The metatarsal and phalangeal bones ossify exactly like the corresponding bones in the hand. THE FOOT AS A WHOLE (Figs. 181-184). The foot is narrowest at the heel and Avidens to the heads of the metatarsal bones. The bones of the foot form a longitudinal arcJt with a single pier, the calcaneum, behind, while the forward pier is formed by the lieads of the meta- tarsal bones. It may be divided longitudinally into two parts in front, with a common support behind. The inner division consists of the hind two-thirds of Fig. 183.—The bones of the right foot, viewed from tlie outer side. (Testut.) the calcaneum, the astragalus, navicular, cuneiforms, and the three inner metatar- sals. It bears the greater ])art of the weight, and is the most raised from the ground. The outer division is formed by the calcaneum, bearing the cuboid and the two outer metatarsals, and acts mainly as a buttress to the inner arch. The longitudinal arch is supported largely by the ])lantar ligaments, Avhile a trans- verse arch, having its two internal piers at the internal cuneitbrm and the first metatarsal, and its external piers at the cuboid and the fifth metatarsal, is formed by the wedge-shape of the cuneiform bones and of the bases of the metatarsals. Fig. 184.—The bones of the right foot, viewed from the inner side. (Testut.) The longitudinal arch is weakest between the astragalus and navicular, where it is liable to yield, giving rise to flat-foot. In this condition it is well seen that the arch is not quite straight from the heel to the toes, but is slightly convex internally and concave on the outer border. The astragalus inclining inwardTHE BONES. 164 and the calcaneum outward in front, the upper and outer border of the former is found over tlie middle of the latter, making the internal maUeolus appear more prominent. In infancy the head of the astragalus is inclined inward more tlian in the adult, so that tiie foot is then naturally invi'rted. The tuberosity of the navicular on the inner border of the foot and that of tlie base of the fifth metatarsal on the outer border, both readily felt through the soft parts, are the best guides to the medio-tarsal and tarso-metatarsal joints. The tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal is a finger's breadth in front of the medio-tarsal, and directly in front of the tarso-metatarsal joint; that of the navicular is two fingers' breadth behind the tarso-metatarsal and directly in front of the medio- tarsal joint. Homologies of the Bones of the Two Extremities. The following conclusions are generally admitted : The thoracic and pelvic limbs are constructed on the same type in their attaching girdles and their several segments. In the jDelvic and shoulder girdles the ilium corresponds to the scapula, the ischium to the coracoid process, and the os pubis to the precoracoid, and per- haps to the clavicle. At an early stage of embryonic life the liml)s are folded ventrally upon the body, and present pre- and post-axial borders and dorsal or extensor and ventral or flexor surfaces. Later, the upper limb rotates outward 45°, and the lower limb rotates inward 90°. This brings the flexor surface in the u^iper limb forward and inward, and in the lower limb backward. The small trochanter and internal condyle of the femur, the tibia, and the great toe in the lower limb are pre-axial, and correspond respectively to the great tuberosity and outer condyle of the humerus, the radius, and the thumb in the upper limb, etc. The patella in tlie lower limb and the olecranon in the upper have no corresjionding parts in tlie other limb. The adult human skeleton is adapted in every part to maintain with ease the erect attitude by being nearly balanced around the line of the centre of gravity in the standing posture, and in this respect it differs from that of other mammals. Stability and strength are provided in the lower limbs, mobility and lightness in the upper. THE SKULL. The bones of the head, composing the skull, contain and protect the brain and sense-organs, as well as the commencement of the alimentary and res2:)iratory tracts. With the exception of the lower jaw, the bones are immovably joined together by sutures, forming a bilaterally symmetrical, spheroidal figure, some- what compressed laterally. It is supported upon the vertebral column, with the upper segment of which it articulates. For description, the twenty-two bones of the skull are divided into two sets. The cranium, or brain-case, is the part above and behind, and comprises eight bones—viz. : f Occipital. T) 1 Siihcnoid. o r i f Two parietals. Uasilar bones, rp , i Koof bones, < -p, i , ' i wo temporals. '[I'rontal. [ Ethmoid. The face is the lower and fore part, composed of six pairs and two single bones, or foui'teen in all—viz. : in pairs, the maxilhe, palate, inferior turbinate, nasal, lachrymal, and malar ; single bones, the vomer and mandible. The hyoid bone may also be classed here, as appendicular to the bones of the head. The base of the skull is ])reformed in cartilage, the roof and sides in membrane.THE OCCIPITAL BONE. 165 THE BONES OF THE CRANIUM. THE OCCIPITAL BONE. This lozenge-shapod bune (Fig>i. 185 and 186) forms the back and a part of the base of the skulL Its hjng diameter is directed from Ijchind downward and forward. It consists of four parts, which meet around the foramen magnum. These parts are distinct at birth, and are represented by separate bones in lower vertebrates. Of these parts, the broad, flat, curved portion behind the foramen magnum, called the squamo-occipital, consists of two parts. The upper triangu- lar segment lying above the highest curved line represents the interparietal bone of lower vertebrates, and is sometimes separate in man. The two exoccipitals or condylar pjortions lie one on eitlier side of the foramen magnum, and include the Fig. 185.—The occipital bone, viewed from below. (Spalteholz.) condyles and jugular processes. They join the squamo-occipital behind and the basi-occipltal or basilar process in front. The latter extends forward fi'om tlie foramen to the sphenoid line. The entire bone is flattened and much curved, and presents a concave cerebral surface and a convex external surface. The external surface is convex, and looks downward and backward behind, downward and forward in front. It presents behind, about the centre of the squamous portion, a well-marked prominence, the external occipital protuberance— an important landmark to be felt througli the scalp. From this a median ridge, the external occipiital crest, leads to the back of the foramen magnum. The pro- tuberance and crest give attachment to the ligamentum nuchre. A transverse ridge extends laterally on each side from the external occipital jirotubcrance called the superior curved line (or middle nuchal line). It arches outward toward the lateral angle, and attaches the trapezius internally, and parts of the occipitalis, sterno-cleido-mastoid, and splenius capitis externally. Above this line is some- times to be seen a fainter ridge, the highest curved line (linea suprema or superior nuchal line). This is more curved, most marked mesially, and extends laterally toward the lateral angle, enclosing with the superior curved line a smooth, dense, semilunar area. It is often absent, but when present attaches the epicranial aponeurosis and a few fibres of the occipitalis. The surface above this line is evenly convex. The rough surface between the superior curved line and the foramen magnum is divided into tw(j rough areas on each side by the inferior curved (or nuchal) line, which curves outward and then downward from near the middle of the crest to the jugular process. The space above the inferior line receives the complexus mesially. The lower space is occupied by the recti capitis166 THE BONES. posteriores major and minor and the obliquus superior. On the external or under surface of the condylar portions we see the condyles, which lie at the sides of the anterior half of the foramen magnum. Through them the head rests upon and articulates with the atlas. Their smooth, elliptical, convex surfaces, cartilage- clad in the recent state, converge in front and look downward and outward. On the median side of each is a rough impression or tubercle for the lateral odontoid or check-ligaments. Behind each condyle is a depression, the 'posterior condylar fossa, which receives the hind edge of the articular facet of the atlas in extension of the head. At the bottom of the depression is sometimes seen the external opening of the posterior eoiidylar foramen, for the passage of a vein from the lateral sinus. It is frequently absent on one or both sides. The base of the condyle is traversed by the anterior condylar foramen, which passes outward and forward from the cranium above the foramen magnum, and transmits the hypo- glossal nerve. External to each condyle the ,;?f_9M/oy'(from y?/_(7H/H7/), " throat") process presents an inferior rough surface, which lies above the transverse process of the atlas, and gives insertion to the rectus capitis lateralis. The inferior sur- face of the basilar portion is inclined forward, is narrower in front than behind, and is transversely convex. It presents a small median pharyngeal tubercle, attaching a process from the fibrous aponeurosis of the ]ihai-ynx. On either side of this it is rough for the recti capitis anteriores, major and minor. A part of this surface can be palpated, though not easily, through the mouth. On the internal or cerebral surface the squamous\" acaly ") portion j^resents a concave surface divided by a transverse and a longitudinal ridge into four fossse, the two superior for the occipital cerebral lobes and the two inferior for the cere- bellar hemispheres. The intersection of these ridges is marked by the internal occipital protuberance. The longitudinal ridge above the protuberance extends to the superior angle, and is grooved for the superior longitudinal sinus, the edges of which attach the falx cerebri. The transverse ridges extend to the lateral angles, are similarly grooved for the lateral sinuses, and to the edges of the groove is attached the tentorium cerebelli. The groove for the longitudinal sinus passes to one side, usually the right, of the internal occipital protuberance, where the groove is deeper and lodges the forcular Heropjhili (" wine-press of Herophilus "). The sharp vertical ridge below the protuberance, called the interned occipited crest, attaches the falx cerebelli. It passes to the foramen magnum and spreads out into its margin. On the upper surface of the jugular pjrocess is seen a deep groove leading to a notch, the jugular notch, on the anterior border of the jugular process. This notch is joined by a notch on the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, and thus forms the jugular foramen (foramen lacerum posterius). The groove lodges part of the sigmoid or terminal portion of the lateral sinus. Sepa- rating this groove from the foramen magnum is the jugidar eminence, with the intracranial opening of the anterior condylar foramen internally, and that of the l^osterior condylar foramen externally (on the side of the groove). The upper surface of the basilar process presents a central groove, the basilar groove, slant- ing upward and forward for the medulla. On either margin of this surface is half of the groove for the inferior petrosal sinus. Angles.—The superior angle, as well as the two lateral, belong to the squamous portion. It fits into the angle formed by the meeting of the posterior superior angles of the parietal bones, and corresponds to the jjosterior fontanelle in the foetus. The latercd angles at the outer ends of the superior curved lines occupy the angles between the parietal bone and the mastoid portion of the temporal on either side. The anterior or inferior angle is represented by the oblong, anterior surface of the basilar portion, united to the body of the sphenoid by cartilage until the age of twenty years, afterward by bone. Borders.—The tioo superior borders extend Ijetween the superior and lateral angles, and are convex and deeply serrated. They articulate with the posterior borders of the parietals, and form the lambdoid (" lambda-like") or parieto-occi- pitcd suture. The two inferior borders extend Ijetween the lateral and antero-167 THE OCCIPITAL BONE. inferior angles, and are uneven and less deeply serrated. Between the lateral angles and the jugular processes they articulate with the mastoid portions of the temporals in the occipHo-masfoid suture. The small rough extremity of each jugular process articulates with the jugular facet of the petrous portion of the temporal bone by synchondrosis until about the twenty-iifth year, when the union becomes osseous. In front of the jugular process is the smooth jugular notch (see above). Between this notch and the antero-inferior angle the borders are rough for articnlatiou with the jjetrous portion of the temporal ])one. A somcAvhat octagonal form is not infrequently presented by this bone, due to the projection of the jugular processes and the middle of the superior bordei's. The foramen magnum is oval in shape, with the long axis directed from before backward. It is encroached upon laterally in its fore part by the condyles, and transmits the upper end of the spinal cord with its membranes and accom])any- ing structures. From the condyles, tliiek ridges of bone, wliich strengthen tlie i skull and transmit its weight to the condyles, pass in four directions—viz., for- FiG. 186.—The occipital bone, viewed from above. (Spalteholz.) ward into the basilar process, laterally into the jugular processes, backward ' around the foramen, and thence upward as the occipital crest, etc. Development.—The basilar and condylar portions ossify each from a single centre. The squamous portion has four centres in two laterally disposed pairs— a pair above in the interparietal portion, and a pair below in the supraocci])ital portion. These two pairs usually unite, l)ut may remain separate through life, forming an interparietal bone, as in lower vertebrates ; or, more commonlv, two lateral fissures remain, a condition usually found at birth. The condylar portions join the squamous in lines extending outward from the posterior margin of the foramen magnum, and they join the basilar portion in lines passing through the antei'ior extremities of the condyles. The centres for the interparietal portion are deposited in membranes, those for the rest of the bone in cartilage. Varieties.—There is sometimes seen a groove for the occipital sinus along the internal occipital crest. The jugular notch is often found partly subdivided by a ! small intrajuepikvr process, and it is frequently separated from the groove for the sinus by a thin transverse ridge. A projection sometimes found beneath the jugular process, the parama.S'<o/cZ process of many mammals, may rarely be so long as to meet the transverse process of the atlas. Frequently the anterior con-168 THE BONES. A'^^ PflRIETAL , : EMINENCE dylar foramen is subdivided by a thin bony spicule. Jiarely the basilai- process at the margin of the foramen artieuhites witli the odontdid process. A median membranous space from the foramen magnum backward to the middle of the supraoccipital is of interest, because in rare cases, when not ossified, it may allow hernia of the brain and its membranes. Artimlations.—By sutures the occipital bone is connected with the two parie- tals, the two temporals, and the sphenoid, and by the condyles it articulates with the atlas. THE PARIETAL BONE. The pariefal ("wall") honrn (Figs. 187, 188) are two symmetrical, quadri- lateral plates which form a large part of the vault and sides of the skull, and are interposed between the frontal and the occipital bones. The external surface is convex, the convexity being greatest near the centre, at the parietal eiaiiienee, most marked in young bones. Arching across the bone just below this are the superior and in ferior temporal 7'i(lr/es, tlie bone between which is smoother than elsewhere. The lower ridge, better marked and more constant, limits the temporal fossa and the attachment of the temporal muscle. Tlie upper ridge, wlien present, gives attachment to the temporal fascia. The surface above it is covered by fascia and the scalj). Not far from the hind end of the upper l)order is the small parietal foramen when present. The internal surface is concave, and marked by shallow depressions and ridges for the cerebral convolutions, and by narrow grooves for branches of the middle meningeal artery, which run upward and backward from below. The largest of these runs from the projecting anterior inferior angle, often as a canal, for a short dis- tance, and is useful in determin- ing the side to which the bone belongs. Along the superior bor- der is a half-groove, completed by the one on the opposite bone, and lodging the superior longitu- dinal sinus. Near this groove, in bones of adults, and especially of the aged, small irregular de- pressions for the Pacchionian bodies are seen. A small ])art of the groove for the lateral sinus often crosses the inner aspect of the jiostcrior inferior angle. Borders.—The sajjerior, ante- rior, and posterior borders are deeply serrated, and the latter (Testut.) two, and to a less extent the first, are alternately bevelled at tlie ex- pense of the outer and inner surfaces, thus alternately overlapj)ing and being overlapped by the adjacent bones. The bone is thus so strongly wedged in as to Fig, 18' (Henle.) -The right parietal bone, outer surface. ANTERIOR ANGLE Fig. 188.—The right parietal bone, inner surfaceTHE FRONTAL BONE. 169 prevent dislocation and to strengthen the cranial vault. The superior border forms with that of the op])osite bone the mgittal (" arrow-like ") suture. The anterior borders of the pair articulate with the frontal bone in the fronto- parietal or coronal (" crown ") suture, and meet one another at nearly a right angle in European skulls, while the posterior borders, which form the lambdoid suture by articulation with the occipital, meet at an obtuse angle. The inferior border has three divisions. Behind, it is serrated for a short distance to articulate with the mastoid portion of the temporal bone in the parieto-mastoid sidure. In front of this the border is thin, concave, and externally bevelled and fluted, where it is overlapped by the scpiamous portion of the temporal in the squamous suture. The great wing of the sphenoid overlajjs the front inch or so, forming the spheno-parietal suture. Angles.—Of the superior angles the anterior is at the hrec/ma (" sinciput"), the posterior at the lambda, (Greek letter A). The j^rojecting anterior inferior angle is at the pterion (" wing"), and is sometimes excluded from articulation with the sphenoid by the contact of the squamosal and frontal. Ossification occurs in membrane from a single centre and commences at the site of the parietal eminence. Varieties.—Rarely a horizontal suture divides the bone into two parts. A large opening is very rai'ely seen at the site of the parietal foramen. THE FRONTAL BONE. The frontal ("forehead") bone (Figs. 189-191) forms the skeleton of the fore- head, and receives the frontal lobes of the brain in the concavity between the FRONTAL EMINENCE TEMPORAL CREST -EXTERNAL ANGULAR PROCESS Fig. 189.—The frontal bone, seen from in front. (Testut.) main or vertical portion, which arches upward and backward from the orbital margin, and the two thin horizontal or orbital plates, which extend backward from the same point, separated by a median gap, the ethmoidal notch. The anterior or external surface is convex, and most strongly so at the fronted eminences, a little below tlie centre of each lateral half. Below and separated from these by shallow grooves are the arched superciliary (" above the lashes ") ridges, converging in the median line to tlie na,sal eminence, below which is the smooth j glabella (" little smooth place "). Traces of the metopjic (" frontal ") suture, which I originally separated the two halves of the frontal, usually persist in the glabella. Behind the superciliary ridges lie the fronted sinuses, which cause the prominence of the ridges in the male. The arched supraorbital (" above the orbit") ridges, more sharply marked externally, limit this surface below and form the anterior SUPRAORBITA RIDGE INTERNAL ANGULAR PROCESS170 THE BONES. margin of the orbital roofs. At about the junction of their inner and middle thirds is the mpraorbiUil notch, sometimes a foramen, for the supraorbital nerve and artery. The supraorbital arch ends in two downward projections, the external and internal angular procesneti, of which the external is a strongly projecting land- mark, which articulates with the malar bone, while the internal is slightly marked and articulates with the lachrymal bone. From the external angular process the temporal crest arches upward and backward, continuous with the ridges on the parietal bone. It separates the frontal part from the temporal area, below and behind it, which forms part of the temporal fossa and attaches the temporal muscle. The inferior surface consists of the orbital surfaces of the triangular orbital plates, which fi)rm the greater part of the roof of the orbits. Their inner margins are parallel; the outer pass backward and inward. Close behind the outer part NTERNAL ANC,L'LA« PROCESS EXTERNAL ANGULAR PROCESS Fic NASAL SPINE 190.—The frontal bone, seen from behind. (Spalteholz.) of the supraorbital ridge this surface presents the lachrymal fossa lodging the lachrymal gland ; and behind the inner end of the ridge there is a depression, the trochlear fossa, (more rarely a tubercle), for the pulley of the superior oblique muscle of the orbit. Between and in front of the internal angular processes is the nasal notch. This is bounded above by a semilunar, serrated surface, which articulates with the upper ends of the nasal bones mesially and the nasal processes of the superior maxilk« laterally. It is bounded behind by a rough, nearly vertical surface, the nasal process (Henle), which projects behind, supports and articulates with the upper ends of the nasal and maxillary bones, which form the bridge of the nose. From the centre of this surface the nasal spine projects downward and forward as a sharp process, which forms a part of the septum of the nose, between the crests of the nasal bones and the vertical plate of the ethmoid. The spine commences behind the nasal process as a median ridge, on either side of which is a narrow groove forming a small part of the roof of the nasal fos.soe. Between the back of these grooves and the internal angular process notice the ojjenings of the two frontal sinvses, which are placed between the outer and inner tables of the bone. The sinuses lie behind the superciliary ridges, extend a variable distance over the orbits, and are sejmrated by a thin vertical partition, usually displaced to the left. Behind these openings, and between the ethmoidal notch and the inner margins of the orbital surfaces, are a series of depressions forming the roofs of cells, and two transverse grooves. These are completed by articulation with tlie lateral masses of the ethmoid to form respectively the171 THE TEMPORAL BONE. ethmoidal cells and the antei-ior and j)osterior ethmoidal caneds. The anterior canals transmit the nasal nerve and anterior ethmoidal vessels; the posterior canal, the posterior ethmoidal vessels. The cerebral surface forms a deep concavity, encroached u]ion but slightly by the convexity of the upper surfaces of the oi'bital plates, whicli form the greater part of the floor of the anterior cranial fossa. The oi'bital plates and the adjoin- ing bone present marked depressions and ridges for the frontal convolutions. TROCHLEAR FOSSA I'IG. I'Jl.—The frontal bone, seen from below. iTestut.) i Elsewhere the bone is smoother, except for a median furrow, the frontal mlms. \ This starts from the upper border, with pits for Pacchionian bodies on both sides, and narrows down below to the thin prominent frontal crest. The superior longi- I tudinal sinus is lodged in the sulcus, and the falx cerebri is attached to the ci-est ! and the ridges of the sulcus. The termination of the crest, by articulation Avith the crista galli of the ethmoid, completes the foramen caecum {" blind hole "). When not closed below, this foramen transmits a small vein from the nose. Borders and Articulations.—The 'posterior border articulates with the parietal bone in the coronal siitKir, nearly as far outward as a rough triangular surface. This triangular surface articulates with the great wing of the sphenoid, forming the posterior half of the outer margin of the orbital plate. It is continuous behind with the thin posterior margin of the orbital plate, which articulates with the small wing of the sphenoid. The malar bone articulates with the fore part of the outer margin of the orbital plate. The parallel inner borders of the orbital surface articulate with the os planum of the ethmoid behind and the lachrymal in front. The margins of the ethmoidal notch articulate with the cribriform plate I of the ethmoid laterally, and the crista galli in front. (The articulations of the I nasal notch and spine have been described above.) Ossificedion proceeds from two centres in the membrane at the site of the frontal I eminences. At birth there are two separate lateral halves, soon united by the median fronted or metopic suture, which is usually obliterated by ossification, ex- cept for a trace at the glabella, but sometimes persists throughout life. The frontal sinuses appear about the seventh year as forward growths from the ante- I rior ethmoidal cells, and increase up to old age. They may invade the roof of the orbit quite extensively. THE TEMPORAL BONE. The temporal ("temple") bone {Figs. 192-195) forms part of the side and I base of the skull, contains the organ of hearing, and articulates with the lower jaw. Although it is usually described in three parts—viz. squamous, mastoid, and petrous—the three parts separable at birth are the squamous, pctro-mastoid, and tympanic. ! The ScLuamous Portion.—This is a thin plate, extending upward and forward I at right angles to the petrous, and forms jiart of the side-Avall of the middle fossa I of the skull. The outer surface, but slightly convex, is smooth, except for a ver- tical gi'oove above the external auditory meatus for the middle tennDoral artery.THE BONES. 172 It forms part of the temporal fossa, and is delimited from the mastoid surface behind by the curved mpramadoid crest. This crest is continued forward, just above the external auditory meatus, to the zygoma ("yoke"), a process of bone which projects, shelf-like, from the lower part of this surface outward, and then, twisted on itself, continues forward. In its forward projection the smooth inner surface and loAver border give origin to the masseter, the sharp upper border attaches the temporal fascia, and the serrated and bevelled anterior extremity articulates with the malar. Two ridges, or roots, extend from its base, the ])0S- terior backward and the anterior inward, enclosing between them a transversely oval, smooth depression, the glenoid fossa, divided into two parts by the nearly Fig. 193.—The right temporal bnne, viewed from tlie mesial plane. (Te.stut.) transverse fissure of Glaser. For articulation with the lower jaw the front half ] of the fossa is coated with cartilage, together with the convex nearly transverse 1 ridge, the emimntia articularis, wliich limits it in front and forms the anterior root of the zygoma. At the outer end of the latter root is a tubercle (pregleuoid)'THE TEMPORAL BONE. 173 for attachment of the external lateral ligaiiu'nt of the lower jaw. The posterior root divides into two branches, of which the upper is the supramastoid crest, and the lower descends in front of the external auditory meatus to the tympanic bone at the Glaserian fissure as the postglcnoid process, very prominent in young bones. In front of the articular eminence is a small, smooth triangular surface belonging to the zygomatic fossa, and separated from tlie temporal surface by a slight ridge. The external pterygoid muscle glides over it. The internal surface is marked by impressions for the cei'ebral convolutions and by grooves for the middle meningeal arteries. Where it joins the petrous portion there is seen in young, and often in old, bones the remains of the petro- squamous suture passing from the angle between these two portions in front to the parietal notch between the squamous and mastoid portions l)ehind. The arched border between these two angles or notches describes about two-thirds of a circle, and is thin, bevelled, and fluted on its inner surface above, overlapping the pai'ietal, and in front is serrated and bevelled on its inner surface above and on its outer surface below, artictdating with the great wing of the sphenoid. The Petro-mastoid Portion.—Tliis segment of the temporal is an irregular, four-sided pyramid of very dense bone, whose rough truncated apex is directed forward and inward to the foramen lacerum medium, and whose base, directed outward and backward, is formed by the less dense mastoid portion. It is usu- ally described as three-sided, the fourth or outer sui'faee being mostly covered by the tympanic bone. The mastoid portion of the petrosal presents a triangular rough externa/ SU7'- face, prolonged downward and forward into the nipple-shaped mastoid process, which affords attachment to the sterno-mastoid, splenius capitis, trachelo-mastoid, and occipitalis. Internal to the mastoid process is the deep digastric groove for the digastric muscle, internal to which is the shallow groove for the occipital artery. Its infernal or cerebred. surface fornis a small part of the posterior cranial fossa, and is separated from the petrosal pyramid by the deep groove for the sigmoid ])ortion of the lateral sinus. The v//r^s■)'o/V/ /"orrny/r;;, transmitting ^f^r__ -^^> a vein, opens internally on or near the rear wall of this groove, and externally near the posterior border of the mastoid portion. The upper border of this portion articulates with the parietal, the posterior border with the occipital. The suture- line between the scpiamous and mastoid portions lies a little below the sujiramastoid crest, and runs from the parietal notch to the middle of the external meatus. The mastoid process about puberty enlarges and becomes filled with a num- ber of air-cells {inastoid cells), connected with a larger cavity, the mastoid antrum (" cave"), which is present and comparatively large at birth, and communicates with the upper part of the middle ear or tympanum. The antrum is bounded ex- ternally by that part of the squamous portion below the supramastoid crest, which is exceed- ingly thin in children, while superiorly the back of the roof of the tympanum (tegmen tympani, "cover of the drum") separates it from the middle cranial fossa. The Petrous Portion.—Of the two intracranial surfaces of this portion, the posterior surface looks backward, inward, and sliglitly upward into the posterior fossa of the base of the skull. From near its centre the internal auditory mecdus, which transmits the facial and auditory nerves, passes outward for about two- fifths of an inch to a plate of bone, the lamina cribrosa ("sieve-like layer"). 'MASTOID CELLS Fig. 194.—Section through the mas- toid cells, showing their communication with the middle ear. (W. W. Keen.)174 THE BONES. This is so called from the numl^er of larger and smaller apertures for the sub- j divisions of the eighth or auditory nerve on either side of a transverse falciform (•' sickle-shaped ") crest, above which, in front, is the internal orifice of the aque- duct of Fedlopim for the seventh or facial nerve. The aqueduct of Fallopius passes outward to the genu, where it bends l)ackward to pass along above and in- ternal to the tympanum, behind which it bends sharply downward to the stylo- mastoid foramen. Behind the meatus is the small, slit-like opening of the aque- ductm vestihuli (" wnter-inpe of the vestibule"), occupied in the adult by vessels i and a process of dura, and al>ove and in front of the latter is a small opening, the remains of the Jioccular fossa, very large in young bones. The anterior surface looks forward, outward, and upward into the middle cranial fossa. A depression is seen near the apex for the Gasserian ganglion, external and inferior to which is the end of the bony carotid canal. Behind this are two small grooves leading backward and outward to foramina—the larger and internal to the hiatus ("gaping") Fallopii, which leads to the geniculate ganglion in the aqueduct of Fallopius, and transmits the great superficial petrosal nerve, while the smaller and external is for the small petrosal nerve. Behind these, and between the petro-squamous suture externally and an eminence formed by the superior semicircular canal internally, the bone is thin and foi'ms the roof of the tympanimi. The inferior or basilar surface presents posteriorly, between the mast<jid and styloid processes, the stylo-mastoid forameUy the exit of the facial nerve from the aqueduct of Fallopius. The styloid process itself projects downward and for- ward, for possibly 2 inches, from its base, which is imbedded between the vaginal process of the tympanic and the petrosal bone. It attaches two ligaments and three Fig. 195.—The right temporal bone, viewed from below. (Testut.) muscles. Internal to this foramen and process is the small quadrilateral jvgulm facet, with which the jugular process of tlie occipital unit(\s by cartilage unti' ossification at the twentieth year. In front of and internal to this facet is th'j smooth, deep jugular fossa, which with the jugular notch of the occipital comj pletes the jugular foramen. In front of the fossa is the carotid foramen, the lowej end of the carotid caned, for the internal carotid artery, which ascends verticalh]175 THE TEMPORAL BONE. ! and theu passes horizontally forward and inward to the outer side of the apex of the bone at the /oro/HeH /acer«?H i/ia//«H(. (" mid<lle torn hole "). Internal to the carotid foramen and reaching to the apex is a quadrilateral surface for the origin I of the tensor tympani and levator palati muscles. Small Foramina on ilm Sur- face.—1. Between the jugular fossa and the carotid foramen is the tympanic canaliGulus for Jacobson's nerve (the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal). 2. In the jugular fossa is the foramen for the auricular branch of the vagus nerve. 3. Small tympanic branches of the carotid plexus pierce the walls of the carotid canal. 4. The aqueduct of the cochlea begins in a triangular depression of the posterior inferior margin, just below the internal meatus. The narrow external or tympanic surface looks slightly forward, and is hidden i by the tympanic plate, excej^t for a variable extent of the outer wall of the carotid j canal in front. On removal of the tympanic bone this surface is seen to form the I inner wall of the tympcm v/in (" drum "). In the angle bet\\'een it and the tympanic [ roof is seen the projection of the Fallopian canal, which bends downward in the angle between the inner and posterior tympanic surfaces, and lodges the facial nerve. 1 Below this is the fenedra ovalis (" oval window "), opening into the vestibule and 1 situated above the promontory, which is grooved for the tympanic plexus of I nerves. Below and behind the promontory is the fenestra rotunda. (" round win- 1 dow"), opening into the cochlea. The surface narrows in front to the bony I canals for the tensor tympani muscle above and the Eustachian tube below, which I are completed externally by the tymjjanic plate. The two canals are separated ' by the delicate processus cochleariformis (" conchshell-shape "), which projects out- j ward and upward. The superior border, grooved for the suj^erior petrosal sinus, attaches the ten- torium cerebelli, a process of which bridges over a notch (trigeminal notch) near the I apex of the bone for the passage of the trigeminal or fifth nerve. A s])icule of bone near the front end of this border is often continued by a fibrous band, rarely by bone [petro-sphenoidal ligament or process), to the side of the dorsum sell« of the sphenoid, completing a foramen for the sixth nerve and the inferior petrosal sinus. The posterior inferior border completes the groove for the inferior petrosal sinus by its articulation with the occipital bone internal to the jugular foramen. The anterior superior and anterior inferior borders are shortened l)y articulation with the squamosal and tympanic bones respectively. The angle between the squamous and petrous jJortions receives the spine of the sphenoid and presents the front orifice of the bony Eustachian canal, to which the cartilaginous part is ] attached. The Tympanic Bone.—In the adult this part of the temporal forms the tym- panic plate. This constitutes the hind, non-articular portion of the glenoid fossa, I which lodges part of tlie parotid gland, and is separated from the squamous por- j tion in front by the Glaserian fissure. Inferiorly it forms the sharp, projecting vaginal (" sheath-like ") process ; superiorly it coalesces Avith the squamous portion, and forms the front, lower, and part of the rear walls of the bony external audi- tory meatus. The latter projects outward in the curved, rough, free margin of the external auditory jjrocess, which attaches the cartilage of the ear. Internally it fuses with the petrosal, and forms the outer wall of the tj'mpanum. Behind it joins the mastoid portion in the auricular fissure. The bony external auditory meatus is elliptical, slightly constricted in the middle, and directed inward and a little forward to the t}-mpanum. Its internal orifice is smooth and grooved for the tympanic membrane ; the external orifice is bounded by the external auditory process except above, where the posterior root of the zygoma bounds it. Externally the Glaserian fissure is closed; internally it is double, and is occupied by a descending jjrocess of the tegmen tympani of the petrous portion, which separates the tympanic and squamosal bones, and forms most of the outer wall of the Eustachian and tensor tympani canals. Between this process and the tympanic plate the fissure transmits to the tympanum the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and lodges the slender processTHE BONES. 176 of the malleus. More internally it presents the canal of Huguicr, by which the chorda tympani nerve issues. Articulations.—The temporal bone articulates above with the jiarietal, in front with the sphenoid and malar, below with the mandible, l)eliind and inter- nally with the occipital. Ossification.—The squamosal and tynijianic lioncs ossify in membrane, each from a single centre ; the petrous portion and styloid process in cartilage, the former from four centres, the latter from two. The foetal tympanic bone forms an incom- plete ring, which encloses the tympanic membrane. It is open above with its free ends united to the squamosal. Two tubercles growing from the front and back of this ring meet in the floor of the meatus, enclosing a foramen, which is gradually (though not always) closed, and thus the tympanic plate is formed. At birth the mastoid process, articular eminence, and tympanic ring are flat, the glenoid fossa is shallow, and the hiatus Fallopii opens at the genu of the canal. THE SPHENOID BONE. The sphenoid or tredf/e-bone (Figs. 196-198) forms a part of all three fossae of the base of the skull and of the orbits and nasal fossae. It is very irregular Fii.;. VXk—The sphenoid bone, viewed from aliove. (Testut.) in shape, and consists of a body, two pairs of wings, and a pair of pterygoid i processes. Body.—The central cuboidal part or body presents a superior surface, which in its hind part, in the posterior cranial fossa, continues the basilar groove of the i occipital and slants ujiward and forward to a quadrilateral projecting plate, the j dorsiiriii sclliv (" back of the saddle"). The upper angles of the latter project oiit^ [ ward as the posterior clinoid (" bed-like ") processes, attaching the tentorium cere- ; belli. It overhangs a deep {\t'\m'!^swn,i\\Q pituiteiry fossa or sella turcica (" Turk- . ish saddle"), which lodges the pituitary body and forms the isthmus or narrow , median portion of the middle cranial fossa. This depression is bounded in front by a transverse elevation, the olivary eminence, behind which on each side projects , a small tubercle, the middle clinoid process. In front of the eminence the slight optic groove supports the optic commissure, and leads laterally to the optic foraniina. The surface in front of this is on a slightly higher level, and forms part of the floor of the anterior cranial fossa. It ends in front in a projecticm, the ethmoidal spine, for articulation with the cribriform jilatc of the ethmoid, and laterally it is i continuous with the superior surfaces of the small wings. Each lateral margin of j this surface is bevelled by the winding cavernous groove, which lodges the inter- nal carotid artery in its forward passage and the cavernous sinus. The hind end iTHE SPHENOID BONE. Ill of this groove is bounded on cither side by a bony projection, internally by the peffoml process, which springs from the side of the base of the dorsnm selke and fits against the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and externally by the lingida {" little tongue "), a thin lamella projecting backward between the body and the great wing. The posterior surface is united to the basilar process of the occipital by cartilage in early life, and by bony union in the adnlt. On PTERYGOID NOTCH. HAWIULAR PROCESS. Fig. 197.—The sphenoid bone, viewed from in front. (Testut.) I the anterior surface the vertical sphenoidal cresf projects in the middle line, below , the ethmoidal spine, and articulates with the vertical plate of the ethmoid. On either side, superiorly, are the rounded orifices of the two sphenoidal sinuses,\\\\\c\\ occupy much of the body of the bone. They are unequally divided by a vertical lamina, the sphenoidal septum, continued back from the crest. These openings and the surfaces beneath them are on the roof of the nasal fossae, and the rough surfaces on either side articulate with the lateral masses of the ethmoid above and with the orbital jjrocesses of the jialate bones below. Much of this surface on either side, between the articuhir areas and the crest and below the orifices, is formed by the sphenoidal tarbinaie (" top-shajied ") hones. These are triangular HAMULAFl PROC. Fig. 198.—The sphenoid bone, viewed from behind. (Testut.) ir conical in shape, with the apex directed downward and backward. They are brmed separately, often come away with the ethmoid or palate bones in disarticu- xting, and sometimes appear in the orbit. The iiferior surface presents in front i median ridge, the rostrum ("beak"), continuous with the crest and received etween the alse and the vomer. The surface ou either side forms part of the pof of the pharynx, and is partly covered by the vaginal processes of the inter- 12THE BONES. 178 nal pterygoid plate. Each lateral mrface attaches the two wings, and between the latter forms the inner boundary of the sphenoidal fissure and the back of the inner orbital wall. The small or orbital wings are thin, triangular, horizontal jilates, extending out- ward from the fore part of the lateral surfaces on a level with the corresponding part of the superior surface. Their smooth superior sarfaces form the hind part of the fltior of the anterior cranial fossa ; the inferior ffHrfaces form the back of the roof of the orbits and the upper margin of the sphenoidal fissures. The ser- rated anterior border articulates with the orbital j)late of the frontal bone, by which it and the pointed outer extremity are separated from the great wing, exter- nal to the sphenoidal fissure. The free posterior border is received into the Sylvian fissure of the brain. It is the boundary between the anterior and middle cranial fossa?, and ends ])ostero-internally in a knob, the anterior clinoid pjrocess, which attaches the tentorium cerebelli. The base of the wing is divided into two roots by the outward and forward passage of the optic J'oi-ainoi, which transmits the optic nerve and the ophthalmic artery. The great or temporal wings project outward and upward from the lower part of the sides of the body, and present three surfaces—cerebral, orbital, and teni- poro-zygomatic. The concave cerebral surface forms part of the middle cranial fossa, and presents at the fore part of its junction with the body, and below the sphenoidal fissure the forward-directed foramen rotundum for the superior max- illary nerve. Behind and a little external to this is the large foramen ovale, directed downward, for the inferior maxillary nerve. This jiart of the bone pro- jects horizontally backward into the sharp alar ("wing-like") spine of the sphe- noid, Avhich occupies the angle between the squamous and jietrous portions of the temporal bone. From its under surface the sharp spinous process projects down- ward, attaching the spheno-mandibulary ligament. The small foramen spinosum < perforates the spine and transmits the middle meningeal artery, grooves for | which cross this surface. The external or teni])oro-~ygoniatic surface forms part of the temporal fossa above and of the zygomatic fossa below the transverse ptery- I r/o/f? ( " wing-like ") r/(/r/c which crosses it. The zygomatic surface looks down- ( ward, is continuous with the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate, and : presents the lower orifices of the foramina ovale and spinosum. The anterior or i orbital surface looks forward and inward. Its upper quadrilateral part forms the | greater part of the outer wall of the orbit, which is separated by a ridge, forming i the outer lip of the spheno-maxillary fissure, from a small area below, which looks into the spheno-maxillary fossa and presents the anterior orifice of the foramen ; rotundum. The posterior border in its inner third bounds the foramen laceriim i medium in front, and presents the posterior opening of the Vidian caned. This ! canal tunnels the base of the internal pterygoid plate sagittally and transmits the ^ Vidian nerve and artery. In its outer two-thirds this border articulates with the petrosal, completing interiorly a groove for the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, j The external border is bevelled internally below and externally above, and articu- lates with the squamosal. The superior border overlaps the anterior inferior] angle of the parietal bone. Internal to and in front of this articnlation is a rough ' triangular surface which articulates with a similar rough triangular surface on thej frontal, and is formed between the upper margins of the three surfaces. The] cranial and orbital surfaces converge and meet in a sharp free border which! bounds the sphenoidcd fissure inferit)rly. The anterior mare/in or malar cr&stl separates the orbital and temporal surfaces, and articulates with the malar honei rind sometimes with the superior maxilla at its lower angle. The obliquely! elongated sphenoidal fissure between the body and the two wings is closed exter- nally by the frontal bone, and transmits to the orbit the third, fourth, sixth, and -ophthalmic divisions of the fifth nerves, and the ophthalmic vein. The two pterygoid processes consist each of two jilates, joined in front, bui| diverging behind, which project downwai'd and slightly forward from the lowei aspect of the base of the great wing.179 THE ETHMOID BONE. The external pterygoid plate, l)road and thin, lies in a plane directed back- ward. The internal surface alifbrds origin to the internal ])terygoid muscle, the external surface to the external pterygoid muscle. This plate forms the inner boundary of the zygomatic fossa, and the outer boundary of the jjterygoid fossa, Avhich lies between and behind the two jilates. The internal pterygoid plate, longer and narrower than the external, forms the outer boundary of the posterior naris, where it is partly covered by the sphenoidal process of the palate-bone. From the up]>er end of the internal surface on each side a thin plate, the vaginal process, projects inward to articulate with the ala of the vomer, and in front with the sphenoidal process of the palate, the latter converting a groove beneath the base of the vaginal process into the jAerygo-palatine caned. Posteriorly at the base of the internal plate is the small pterygoid tubercle, between which and the lingula is the Vi<1ian canal, and below which is the shallow scaphoid, fo.'isa, I in which the tensor palati muscle arises. The posterior border is prolonged below into the slender, Jianiular {" hook-like ") process, grooved externally above for the passage of the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. It is often to be felt behind and I within the last upper molar tooth. In front the two plates are joined above, and form a smooth triangular surface, which makes the back wall of the spheno-maxil- lary fossa, and presents superiorly the anterior orifice of the Vidian canal. Below, the two jilates are separated in front by the pterygoid, notch, which is occupied by the pyramidal process of the palate-bone. The cartilage of the Eustachian tube is attached and supjjorted along the hind, inner, and ujiper part (tf the internal plate. Articuhdions.—The sphenoid articulates with all the other bones of the cra- nium, which it binds firmly together, and with five of the facial bones—viz., two I malar, two palate, and the vomer, and sometimes one or both superior maxillae. Varieties.—The ligaments normally connecting the clinoid processes may become ossified. The fejramcn of J^esalius, for an emissary vein, is sometimes I present internal to the foramen ovale. Ossification occurs in cartilage from twelve centres in two divisions, a pre- and a post-sphenoid, which join at the olivary eminence, and are distinct in many animals. The sphenoidal sinuses begin to hollow out the body in the sixth year, before which they are confined to the sphenoidal turbinate bones, which develop separately in cartilage. THE ETHMOID BONE. CRIBRIFORM PLATE The ethmoid or .s?V?'e-io?ir (Figs. 199-201) is I'oughly cuboidal, and projects downward from the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone between the orbits to form part of the orbits, nasal fossse, and base of the ci'a- nium. It is very light, being largely composed of. , cavities bounded by thin walls. It consists of a ver- tical and a horizontal plate, and of two lateral masses, the last suspended from the margins of the horizontal plate. The vertical plate forms the ujijjer third of the median (though often deflected) se])tum of the nose, and is grooved for the olfactory nerves. It projects into the cranial cavity above the horizontal plate as i the median triangular crista gedli (" crest of the cock "). 1 This is most prominent in front, and along its thin I posterior border it attaches the falx cerebri. In front I it divides into two lateral alse, which articulate with i the frontal, and usually complete the foramen caecum, j The vertical plate articulates in front with the nasal spine of the frontal and the crest of the nasal bones, below and in front with the triangular se]>tal cartilage, below and behind with the vomer, and behind with the crest of the sphenoid. Fir,. 199—DiiiKram of the eth- moid bone in transverse, vertical section. (Testut.)180 THE BONES. The horizontal or cribriform phife is so named from a number of perforations arranged in tliree rows, of which those in the inner and outer rows are the larger and transmit the olfactory nerves to the inner and outer walls of the nasal fossfe. This plate forms the depressed olfactory groove of the anterior cranial fossa, which lodges the olfactory bulbs on either side of the crista galli. On each side of the fore part of the latter is a longitudinal slit for the nasal branch of the tifth nerve. The lateral masses or labi/rintlis contain a number of irregular, thin-walled ethmoidal cells between their two lateral walls. The thin, smooth, obking outer wall forms most of the inner wall of the orbit, and is called the as planum (" smooth bone") or orbital plate. The borders of this plate and of the lateral mass articulate in front with the lachrymal, below with the sujiei ior maxilla and palate-bones, behind with the sphenoid and sphenoidal turbinate bones, and above with the oi'bital plate of the frontal. The latter articulation com})letes the two horizontal, transverse grooves in each bone into the anterior and posterior eth- moidal c(tn(ds. These articulations (together with that of the nasal process of the maxilla with the fore part of the lateral mass internally) close the exposed half- cells of the ethmoid. The ethmoidal cells are lined by a continuation of the nasal mucous membrane, and are divided by a transverse septum into an anterior and a posterior set. The anterior set opens into a sinuous canal, the in fund ibid im, which leads from the frontal sinuses to the middle meatus of the nose ; the posterior cells open into the superior meatus. The cells are sometimes divided into posterior, middle, and anterior sets, the two latter opening together. The inner w(dl forms the u])per part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and is grooved for olfactory nerves and blood-vessels. It consists of the sujjerior and middle tiirbincde bones, which have attached upper borders, but are free and somewhat rolled outward infei'iorly. They are continuous in front, but separated in the posterior half by a channel, the superior mecdus of the nose, directed forward from the posterior l)order. The middle turbinate extends the length of the bone, and overhangs and bounds superiorly the m iddle meatus of the nose. From beneath the fore part of the os ])lanum a long, thin lamina of bone, the uncinate ("hook- like") process projects back'ward and downward in the outer wall of the middle meatus, where it articulates with the ethmoidal ]irocess of the inferior turbinate bone, and helps to close the inner wall of the antrum of the maxilla. Articulation occurs with thirteen bones—viz., the frontal and s])henoid of the craniinn, and the vomer, two nasal, two lachrymal, two maxilhe, two palate,j and two inferior turbinate bones of the face. Ossificedion proceeils in cartilage from three centres—one in tlie jjerpendiculari plate and f>ne in each lateral mass. True bony ethmoidal cells do not appearj until the third vear.THE SUrERIOIi MAXILLARY BONE. 181 THE BONES OF THE FACE. THE MAXILLA, OR SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. The maxilla or upper jaw-bone (Figs. 202-204) forms the largest part of the facial skeleton, including part of the floor and outer wall of the nasal fossa, the roof of the mouth, and the Hoor of the orbits, and in it are lodged the upper teeth. It comprises a central hollow body and four processes. Its shape is characteristic of man and of his food and the mode of employing it. Surgically, it is important from its many diseases. The Body.—The facial snrj'ave looks forward and outward, and presents a prominent ridge, due to the fang of the canine tooth, which separates two shallow depressions, the incisive fossa in front and the canine fossa behind. Above the Fig. 202.—The right maxilla, outer surface. (Te.stut.) latter and just below the orbital margin is the infraorbital foramen, where the infraorbital nerve and artery emerge. The inner margin presents the deep nasal notch, attaching the soft parts of the nose. The lower edge of the notch is pro- longed forward internally into the anterior nasal spine. The convex posterior or a 0) Fig. 203.—The right maxilla, inner surface. (Testut.) '.ygomatic surface is separated from the facial surface by a ridge ascending from :he socket of the first molar tooth to the malar process. This surface forms the mterior boundary of the zygomatic fossa, and above and internally it bounds the ^pheno-maxillary fossa in front. Near its centre are the ajjertures of the two or nore posterior dental canals for nerves and vessels of that name. The prominentTHE BONES. 182 posterior inferior angle is the fuherositi/, which attaches a few fi])res of the internal pterygoid, and articulates along its rough internal border with the tuberosity of the palate-bone. The nmal or mtcrnal mirfnce forms the outer wall of the nasal fossa in the lower and middle meatuses, and presents in front a ridge, the ivferior turbinate crest, which articulates with the inferior turbinate bone. Above and behind the surface is deficient, presenting the large irregular opening into the antnmi. Above this opening tliere are one or two half cells, which com])lete as many ethmoidal cells. Behind it the surface is rougli for articulation with the ver- tical plate of the palate-bone, except for a smooth groove directed downward and forward from the posterior border, which is completed by the jmlate-bone into tlie posterior palatine canal. The 'posterior border is sejiarated from the pterygoid process of the sphenoid by the tuberosity of the palate-bone. Behind the nasal process and between it and this surface notice the lachrymal groove, which descends with a backward and a slight outward inclination. This is completed into a canal for the nasal duct by the lachrymal and inferior turbinate bones, and opens below into the inferior meatus. The smooth, triangular orbital or upper surface forms the tloor of the orbit and the inner part of its lower margin. Internally it articulates from before backward with the lachrymal, ethmoid, and palate bones. At the anterior end of this border is the outer part of the upper orifice of the lachrymal groove. The free, smooth, pastero-external margin bounds the spheno-maxillary fissure in front and internally, and presents about its middle the commencement of the infraorbital grooee, which passes forward in the orbital surface to the canal and foramen of the same name. From the canal the middle and anterior dental canals, for nerves and vessels of the same name, run down- ward in the facial portion of the bone. The antero-external margin of this sur- face bounds the rough upper surface of the thick triangular malar process, which articulates with the malar bone. This process is continuous in front with the facial surface and behind with the zygomatic surface of the body. The 7iasal process is a triangular plate of bone which projects upward and slightly inward. It presents externally a smooth surface continuous with the facial surface of the body. The internal surface is crossed by the superior turbinate crest, which articidates with the middle turbinate bone. Above the crest it articu- lates with the ethmoid (closing its foremost cells), and below it this surface forms part of the outer nasal wall in the middle meatus. The serrated summit articulates with the frontal, the anterior border with the nasal, and the posterior border is marked by the lachrymal groove, which lodges the lachrymal sac. The sharp inter- nal border of this groove articulates with the lachrymal bone, while the smooth external border forms the inner margin of the orbit, the point of whose junction with the lower margin is marked by the lachrymal tubercle. The edneolar process is the thick, arched lower border of the bone, which contains the alveoli (" little hollows") or tooth-sockets, corresponding in shape and number to the roots of the eight teeth which occupy them. The palate process, jn'ojecting horizontally inward from the junction of the body and the alveolar process, articulates with its fellow of the opposite side to form the forward three-fourths of the hard palate, the upper surface of which belongs to the floor of the nose, the lower to the roof of the mouth. The up])er transversely concave surface is smooth, while the lower vaulted surface is rouo-h and marked at its lateral marg-in with a jrroove for the vessels and nerves passing forward from the ])ostcrior palatine canal. The posterior border articulates with the horizontal plate of the palate-bone, which completes the hard palate, while the median border joins with its fellow to form, superiorly, the vertical grooved ncmU crest, which receives the vomer. In front of the vomer this crest, suddenly becoming much higher, is called the ineisor crest, which supports the septal cartilage of the nose, and ends in front in the nasal spine. On each side of this crest, where it joins the upper surface, is seen the incisor or Stenson's foramen, for the terminal branches of the posterior pal- atine arteries. These two foramina converge downward and forward, and open on the roof of the mouth into a single canal, the anterior palatine fossa, commonTHE PALATE-BONE. 183 to them and the two foramina of Scarpa, \w\nc\\ are phiced in front of and behind the former in tlie median suture, and transmit the naso-palatine nerves. In young bones the premaxiHary suture extends from this fossa on each side to, but not through, the outer alveolar border, internal to the canine socket. The part in front of this suture represents the prcmaxillary hove of the lower animals, and includes the ineisor teeth. It is separately formed, and sometimes remains sep- arate on one or both sides in cases of cleft-])alate. The antrum of Ilighmore, or maxillanj sinus, is a pyramidal air-chamber ocon- i pying the body of the bone. Its thin walls correspond to the surfaces of the I body. The apex corresponds to the malar ! process, and the base to the nasal surface, the large opening in which is partly closed by the palate-bone behind, the inferior tur- binate bone inferiorly, and the uncinate pro- I cess of the ethmoid and tlio lachrymal above 1 and in front. It is made still smaller by j the mucous membrane, and ojiens into the middle meatus of the nose by one or some- I times two apertures. Along the lower angle ' the roots of the first two molars often project I into the cavity. The antrum may some- I times be partly, rarely completely, sub- I divided. Articulations.—The maxilla articulates with its fellow and with the nasal, frontal, , lachrymal, ethmoid, palate, vomer, inferior turbinate, and malar bones, and sometimes with the sphenoid. Ossification occurs early in membrane from four centres, and some of the lines between the parts are often to be seen in the young adult bone, especially in the floor of the orbit. The antrum a^jpears in fjetal life. THE PALATE-BONE. The palate-bone (Figs. 206, 206) is L-shaped, and is wedged in between the ! maxilla and the pterygoid process of the sphenoid, forming the back part of the hard palate, of the lateral wall of the nose, and of the floor of the orbit. It has a horizontal and a vertical ]date, united at a right angle. The tuberosity projects j backward and outward fnnii the rear of this angle, and the vertical plate is I surmounted by two processes, the orbital and sjihenoidal. The horizontal plate completes the hard jialate, and presents a smooth, concave upper surface and a rough lotver surface. The latter presents behind a transverse ridge which attaches the aponeurosis of the soft jialate, connected with the tensor palati muscle. The anterior border articulates with the palate process of the maxilla ; the internal border articulates with its fellow, forming the continuation of the nasal crest which supports the vomer, and ends at the posterior border in the posterior vasal spine. The free and sharp jjosferior border bounds the posterior nares inferiorly, and attaches the soft palate. The vertical plate is thin and presents a rough order surface, which, applied against the maxilla, comjdetes the groove near its hind border into the posterior palatine canal. Behind tlie groove is a smooth surface superiorly, forming part of the inner w'all of the spheno-maxillarif fossa, below which the surface is rough for articulation with the pterygoid process and the maxilla successively. In front this surface overlaps the opening of the antrum by a thin ])rojection, the maxil- lary process. The inner or nascd surface presents the hind part of the inferior and middle meatuses of the nose, each limited above by a transverse ridge or crest, Fig. 204.—The maxillary sinus and the inner waU of the orbit. The apex of the sinus and the outer wall of the orbit have been removed. (Testut.)THE BONES. 184 articulating witli the inferior and middle tiirl)innte liones respectively. Above the upper ridge the two processes ascend, separated by the deep spheno-pdUdine notch, which is converted into a foramen of the same name by articulation with the sphenoid bone. This foramen connects the spheno-maxillary and nasal fossa;. Fig. 205.—The two palate-bones in their uatural pusi- Fig. 20fi.—The right palate-bone, tion, dorsal view. (Testut.) inner surface. (Testut.) and transmits the spheno-palatine artery and nerve. At the lower end of each process internally is a grooved surface entering into the supei'ior meatus. The five-sided orb'd(d proccs.i surmounts the anterior border of the vertical ]jlate, and articulates with the maxilla in front, the sphenoid behind, and the ethmoid internally. The ethmoidal cells or the sjihenoidal sinus may extend into its holloM^ body. Of the two free surfaces the superior forms the rear angle of i the orbital floor, and the external looks into the spheno-maxillary fossa, while the border between them bounds the spheno-maxillary fissure internally at its hind end. The sphenoidal process curves upward and inward, and articulates exter- nally and superiorly with the base of the internal pterygoid plate and of the sphenoidal body, completing with the former the pterygo-palatine canal. At its i lower part, in front, a small surface looks outward into the spheno-maxillary fossa. The inner surface looks into the nasal fossa, and above, where it touches the ala of the vomer, forms a part of its roof. The tuberosity ov pyramidal process \ is wedged in between the tuberosity of the maxilla and the 2>terygoid process. It presents externally a small free surface in the zygomatic fossa. Posteriorly it fi.lls the pterygoid notch, and completes the pterygoid fossa by a smooth triangular surface lying between two rough grooves, which articulate with the anterior bor- ; ders of the two pterygoid plates. Interiorly, near its junction with the horizontal < plate, with which it is continuous, are seen the lower orifices of the accessory, , posterior, and external jialatine canals. Articulation.—The palate articulates with its fellow, the vomer, maxilla, infe- rior turbinate, sphenoid, and ethmoid. Ossification proceeds from a single centre in the membrane of the nasal capsule. THE VOMER. The vomer (" ploughshare ") (Fig. 207) is a thin, irregular quadrilateral plate forming the lower and back part of the nasal septum. It is usually deviated from the vertical plane, most often to the left. Each lateral surface is covered with muco-periosteum, and presents a faint groove running downward and for- ward to conduct the naso-palatine nerve to Scarpa's canal. The thick superior border splits into two alee (" wings"), which embrace the rostrum of the sjihenoid, while their margins meet the vaginal processes of the sphenoid and the sphenoidalTHE NABAL BONE. 185 processes of the palate-boues. Tlie obli(|ue anterior border joins the vertical plate of the ethmoid al)ove, and below it is grooved for the septal cartilage. The infe- rior bor-der is received into the groove of the nasal crest of the maxilla3 and palate- \ Fig. 207.—Sagittal section of face, a little to the left of the middle line, showing the vomer and its relations. (Testut.) bones. The truncated anteriw angle fits in behind the incisor crest of the maxilhe. The thin, free posterior border separates the two posterior nares. Ossification proceeds from a single centre in membrane, and forms two lamellae, which cause the absorption of the intervening cartilage. LACH RY MAL PROCESS ETHMOID PROCESS THE INFERIOR TURBINATE BONE. Each inferior turbinate bone (Figs. 208, 223) is a scroll-like lamella which separates the middle from the inferior meatus of the nasal fossa, and is attached above to the outer wall of the nose, but is free below. Its convex inner mrface, marked by pits and longitudinal grooves for vessels, ends below in the convex, thickened free border, which is rolled upon itself. The attached upper margin articulates in front with the inferior turbinate crest of the maxilla, behind which it rises ab- ruptly into the lachrymal process, which articu- lates with the lachrymal bone and helps to close 'the lachrymal canal. Behind this is the max- ilkiry process, bent downward and closing the lower part of the opening of the antrum. Above and behind the latter process the ethmoidal prrj- I cess rises to join the uncinate process of the I ethmoid. The posterior part of this margin is attached to the inferior turbinate ] crest of the palate-bone. The posterior angle is sharp, the anterior more blunt. I The outer surface is concave and grooved. Ossification.—This bone ossifies from a single centre in cartilage, and may be regarded as a detached portion of the ethmoid. THE NASAL BONE. The two oblong nasal bones (Fig. 209) form the bridge of the nose. The facial surface of each is vertically concave above and convex below, and trans- versely convex. The posterior or 7iasal surface, transversely concave, is rough Fig. 208.—Kight inferior turbinate bone, external surface. (Testut.)186 THE BONES. above, where it rests upon the nasal process of the frontal. Below it forms part of the roof of the nose, and presents a longitudinal groove for the nasal nerve. This groove ends in a small notch near the inner end of the thin lower border, which attaches the lateral nasal cartilage. The short, thick upper border articulates with the nasal notch of the frontal. The long outer border articulates with the nasal process of the maxilla. The inner border, thicker above, meets that of its fellow, with which it is prolonged backward into a median crest, wliich from above downward rests uj)on the nasal spine of the frontal, the vertical plate of the ethmoid, and the septal cartilage of the nose. ^^^FiG. 209. — Nasal Ossification proceeds from a single centre in membrane before. (Testut.) overlyiug Cartilage, which is absorbed. At birth the bone is relatively broad. The shape of the nose depends largely upon that of these bones. THE LACHRYMAL BONE. The lachri/mal bone (os imr/im), " nail-l)one " (Figs. 210, 211), is a thin quadri- lateral scale of bone forming the front of the inner wall of the orbit. Its external or orbital surface presents a larger, flat hind or orbital part, and a smaller grooved fore part, forming the lachrymcd sidcus or groove for the lachrymal sac. These por- tions are separated by a sharp vertical ridge, the lachrymal crest, which is prolonged forward at its lower end into the hamulus, which often articulates with the lachrymal tubercle of the maxilla, and bounds the orifice of the lachrymal canal externally. Fig. 210.—Right lachrymal Fig. 211.—Right lachrymal bone, outer surface. (Testut.) bone, inner surface, (fe.stut.) The interned surface closes some of the front ethmoidal cells above, and below looks into the middle meatus of the nose. The anterior border articulates with the nasal process of the maxilla, the superior with the internal angular process of the frontal, and the posterior with the orbital plate of the ethmoid. The inferior boi'der behind the crest joins the orbital plate of the maxilla, and in front it is prolonged downwai'd as the descending or turbinal jyrocess, which joins the lachry- mal process of the inferior turbinate bone to complete the lachrymal canal. The lachrymal ossifies from a single centre in membrane, and is a diminishing element. THE MALAR BONE. The quadrangular malar bone (Figs. 212, 213) forms the prominence of the cheek and helps to separate the orbit from the temporal fossa. The older surface is convex, and presents near its centre the orifice of the malar canal. The concave inner surface looks into the temporal fossa above, the zygomatic fossa below, and articulates in front by a rough triangular surface with the malar process of the maxilla. The four angles are directed vertically and horizontally. The ])rominent, serrated upper angle or//'0?ifa^j3rocftss articulates with the external angular process of the frontal, and the 2^osterior angle or zygomatic process is bevelled alcove, and articulates with the end of the zygoma. The sinuous temporal border between these two angles is continuous with the upjier edge of the zygoma below and the tem-iTHE MANDIBLE, OR INFERIOR 3IAXILLARY BONE. 187 ponil ridge above, and attaches the temporal fascia. The podcrior inferioi- or mas- seterie border completes the lower edge of the zygomatic arch and attaches some fibres of the masseter. The antero-inferior or maxillary border, the inferior angle, FRONTAL Fig. 212.—Right malar bone, outer surface. (Testut.) Fig. 213.—Rightmalarbone.innersurface. (Testut.) and the anterior angle or maxillary process articulate with the maxilla. The anfero-superior or orbifnl border is curved to form the outer margin and the outer half of the lower margin of the orbit. From this border the curved, triangular orbital process projects backward and inward, and forms the anterior boundary of the temporal fossa and the fore part of the outer wall and floor of the orbit. It articulates above with the frontal, and behind with the great wing of the sphenoid and the orbital plate of the maxilla. Between the articulations with the latter two bones there is usually a free margin bounding the sphcno-maxillarv fissure in front. The temporal and malar canals, for the temporo-malar branches of the fifth nerve, are seen on the orlntal surface. Ossification proceeds in membrane from two or sometimes three centres, and the adult bone is occasionally divided by a horizontal suture into two unequal parts. THE MANDIBLE, OR INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. The loiver jaio-bone (Figs. 214, 21.5) is a large, strong, horseshoe-shaped bone, forming the lower third of the facial skeleton, and articulating by means of a pair of condyles with the glenoid fossae of the temporal bones. It consists of a nearly horizontal body in front and two posterior vertical portions or rami. Fig. 214.—The mandible, viewed from the right and a little in front. (Testut.) The body consists of two symmetrical, lateral halves, whose symphysis ("together-growth") or union in the middle Ww h mi\YkQ(\ on the external sur- face by a faint vertical ridge which expands below into the triangular mental protuberance or chin. The centre of the base of the protuberance may be188 THE BONES. slightly depressed, and from its prominent lateral angles, or mental (" chin ") tubercles, the rather faint external oblique line extends backward and npward to become eontinuons with the anterior border of the coronoid jn-ocess. Below the incisor teeth on each side is the incisor fossa. Midway between the npper and lower borders and in line with tiie second bicuspid tooth, or the interval between the two bicuspids, is the mental foramen, transmitting the mental nerve and vessels from the dental canal. The internal surface presents at the symphysis, superiorly, a linear groove, ending below in a small foramen, below which are two pairs of genial (" chin ") tubercles, sometimes fused into a single median ridge. The up]X'r pair attaches the geuio-hyoglossi muscles, and a small median ridge, attaching the genio-hyoid muscles, usually takes the place of the lower ])air. Below and on each side of this, and close to the lower border, is a rough depression for the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. Beginning above the latter and at the CON DY LE Fig. 215.—The risht half of the mandible, inner surface. (Testut.) side of the lower genial tubercle on each half of the bone, the internal oblique line or nu/lo-h'i/oid ridge ^assen backward and u])ward to the ramus. This attaches the mylo-hyoid muscle, and, at the posterior end, the superior constrictor muscle and the pterygo-maxillary ligament. Above the line, on each side of the symphysis, is the shallow sublingual fossa for the sublingual gland ; and below it, at the side, is the submaxillary fossa for the submaxillary gland. The .superior or alveolar border on each side presents the sockets for the roots of eight teeth, and exter- nally attaches the buccinator as far forward as the first molar. The inferior border, thick, smooth, and rounded, projects beyond the upper, and is grooved for the facial artery near its junction with the ramus. The ramus is quadrilateral and thinner than the body. The masseter mus- cle is inserted on its external surface. On the internal surface, about its mid- dle, is the inferior dental foramen, leading to the inferior dental canal for the inferior dental vessels and nerves. This canal is nearer the inner surface behind and the outer in front where it connects with the mental foramen. It commu- nicates by a series of fine channels with the bottom of each tooth-socket. The front and inner edge of the foramen is sharp and prominent, forming the lingula, which attaches the spheno-mandibular or long internal lateral ligament of the jaw. Behind the lingula and below the foramen the mylo-hyoid groove (some- times a canal at first) starts in its downward and forward course beneath the mylo-hyoid ridge, and lodges the mylo-hyoid nerve and vessels. Between this groove and the angle the internal pterygoid muscle is in.serted on a rough trian- gular space. The lower border, continuous with that of the body, meets the posterior border at the angle of the jaw. This is usually slightly everted, and attaches behind the stylo-mandil)ular fold of fascia. The sharp, concave upper border, known as the sigmoid notch, separates the two processes, and is crossed by I the masseteric nerve and artery. The hind process, or condyle, surmounts the i posterior border on a constricted portion, or neck, in front of which, internally, '189 THE HYOID BONE. is a depression for the insertion of the external pterygoid muscle. The condyle is convex and transversely elongated on an axis which, prolonged, would meet that of its fellow near the front of the foramen magnum. Its prominent outer end, beyond the articular surface, forms a tubercle, to which the external lateral ligament is attached. The thin coronoid process tapers upward and outward from the anterior Iwrdcr, and to its tip, liorflcrs, and internal surface the temporal muscle is attached. The inner surface presents a ridge, continuous below M'ith the internal oblique line and the inner alveolar edge. Between this ridge and the anterior border is a groove for the insertion of the temporal muscle above, and, for a short distance, for the buccinator below. The changes according to age (Figs. 216, 217) are so ordered that the upper and lower gums, or teeth, as the case may be, meet in biting. Thus, at birth the angle is about 175°, the body is shallow and consists mostly of alveolar process, and the mental foramen is near the lower border. At about four years of age, after the first dentition, the angle is reduced to 140°, as the body plus the teeth is much deeper. In adult life the depth of tlie body has tut.) Fig. 216.—Tlie mandible in infancy. (Tes- FiG. 217.—The mandible in old age. (Testut SO increased below, in the basal part, that the foramen is midway between the borders, and the angle is 120° to 110°, or even less. In old age the alveoli are absorbed, the foramen is near the upper border, the body is basilar, and the angle is increased to 140° or so, thus allowing the gums to meet. This throws the chin forward, and tlie pressure of the tightened lips presses back the upper border of the bone in front. Ossification proceeds at a very early period from four to six centres on each side. The part from the symphysis to the mental foramen is ossified in the ante- rior end of Meckel's cartilage, the condyle and angle from separate centres in cartilage, and the rest in membrane. At birth the two halves are united by fibrous tissue. THE HYOID BONE. The hyoid (" like Greek letter upsilon ") or lingual bone (Fig. 218) is a small U-shaped bone which may be felt at the base of the tongue, between the chin and the thyroid cartilage. It has a body and two pairs of cornua. The oblong body has a smooth, con- cave posterior surface, looking backward and downward toward the epiglottis. Its convex anterior surface, looking upward and forward, is divided by a transverse and sometimes a median vertical ridge into depressions for muscular attachment. The superior border attaches the thyro- hyoid membrane. The great corniiet taper backward and upward from the sides of the l)ody, ending in rounded tubercles to which the thyro-hyoid ligaments are attached. The cornua are flattened above and afford Fig. 218.—The hyoid bone. (F. H. G.)THE BONES. 190 attachment to muscles. The small coniua are small conical pieces of bone, often partly, and sometimes wholly, cartilagiiions, which jiroject upward and backward from the junction of the great cormia and the liody. Their extremities attach the stylo-hyoid ligaments, which suspend the hyoid from the styloid processes of the temporal bones. Ossification occurs in the cartilage of the second visceral arch, continuous with the styloid process. There is a centre for each cornu, and for each half of the body. The synchondrosis of the great cornu usually ossifies after middle life. The synovial articulation of the small cornu seldom ankyloses. THE SKULL AS A WHOLE. The Sutures. The sutures are the closely-fitted articulations of the uneven edges of the bones of the skull, in which the l)ones are separated only by a fibrous suture membrane., continuous with the periosteum and dura, except in the two synchondroses of the jugular and basilar portions of the occipital bone, at the base of the skull, where cartilage intervenes until it is ossified in adult life. The sutures allow the rapid growth of the skull in early life, diminish shocks, and, by being alternately bevelled on each side, bind the bones so firmly together that dislocation is next to impossible. Many of them are often, but not always, obliterated by ossification in adult life. The time when this commences is very variable, but it usually begins where they last came together—/. e., near the posterior, anterior, or antero-lateral Ibntanelles. Though the sutures are best named from the bones which form them, those around the ])arietal bones have received special names from their shape, direction, etc., as the sar/iffal (interparietal), the coronal (fronto-parietal), the lambdo'uhd (occi]iito-]>arictal), and the squamous (squamo-parietal). The fontanelles ("little springs") are unossified, membranous spaces whicli exist before, at, and for a time after birth at the angles of the parietal bone. Their existence and position are due to the fact that, while the bones are quadri- lateral, ossification proceeds radially or circularly, so that the angles are the last to ossify. The larger, diamond-shaped einterior J'ontanelle is an important lan<l- mark at parturition. It serves for a safety-valve for the rajjidly varying intra- cranial pressure of early infancy, and closes during the second year. The anteriw and posterior lateral fontanelles are closed in foetal life. The posterior fontanclle is often filled up before birth, but the bones are then movable upon each other, and the triangle of their converging margins may be felt as a landmark during parturition. Wormian bones often assist in the closure of the lateral and posterior fontanelles. Wormian bones are small, irregular ossicles from supernumerary ossific centres Avhich are found in varying numbers in the sutures, especially in those about the parietal bones, and chic^fly near the fontanelles. They are most numerous and kirgest in the lambdoid suture, but must be distinguished from the interparietal portion of the occipital bone when it exists as a separate bone. A small ossicle, the epiptcric ("upon the wing") bone, is found in most skulls in each anterior lateral fontanelle up to the fifteenth year, after which it usually joins the great wing of the sphenoid. The Exterior of the Skull. The skull is bilaterally symmetrical. The superior region includes the smooth convex surface. It is covered by the occipito-frontalis muscle and aponeurosis and the scalp, which extends from the supraorl)ital margins in front to the superior curved lines of the occipital bone behind and between the superior temporal lines laterally. The skull, viewed from above, is broader behind than in front, and is ovalTHE EXTERIOR OF THE SKULL. 191 in outline, witli sliglit prujections at tlie frontal and jiarictal eminences and at the occipital protuberance. At the meeting of" the sagittal and coronal sutures is the bregma, at the site of the anterior fontanelle ; and the himbdd is where the sagittal and lambdoid sutures meet, at the site of the posterior fontanelle. The occipital protuberance is known as the iition ("occiput"). Except in very broad skulls the zygomatic arches are visible from above. The lateral or temporal region (Figs. 219, 220) presents the tcmjjordl fossa, I formed by the temporal, parietal, sphenoid, frontal, and malar bones, and occu- Firi. 219.—Skull, viewed from the left side, showing the principal craniometric points. pied by the temporal muscle. It is limited below by the zygomatic arch exter- nally and the pterygoid ridge of the sphenoid internally. Above it is bounded by the temporal ridr/e, which, starting at the external angular jn'ocess of the frontal bone, arches upward and backward, and then downward. Near the coronal suture it usually divides mion, superior awX an 'inferior ridge. The latter limits the origin of the temporal muscle, and is continuous behind M ith the snjiramastoid crest and I the posterior root of the zygoma. The former, less constant and not as marked, attaches the temporal fascia and arches down to the mastoid ]irocess near the asterio7i (" starry") at the site of the posterior lateral fontanelle. The pferion ("wing"), at the site of the anterior lateral fontanelle, is where the jjarietal, frontal, sjjhenoid, and temporal bones come together. The temporal fossa com- municates with the zygomatic fossa through the opening bounded externally l)y the zygomatic arch. The zygomatic fossa, is bounded in front by the zygomatic surface of the max- illa, internally by the external ])terygoid plate, externally by the zygomatic arch and ramus of the jaw, and sujieriorly by a small triangular surface on the squamosal and by the great wing of the sphenoid internal to the pterygoid ridge. Posteriorly it is limited by a line drawn from the sphenoidal spine to the zygo- matic tubercle. It is occupied by the pterygoid and temporal muscles and the coronoid process of the lower jaw. Internally, between its anterior and internal boundaries, is the vertical pteri/go-ma.rilfari/ fissvre, between the maxilla and the anterior border of the external pterygoid plate. This connects the zygomatic with the spheno-maxillary fossa. Above and at right angles to the pterygo-maxillaryTHE BONES. 192 fissure is the spheno-mnxillary fissure, which connects the upper part of the zygo- matic and of the spheno-maxillarv fossfe witli tlie orbit. This fissnrc lies nearlv horizontally between the i'vvc margins of the orbital surfaces of the maxilla anil the palate-bone internally and the sphenoid externally. In front it is usually Fig. 220.—The bony sinuses of the head. (Testut.) limited by the malar bone, though the maxilla and sphenoid may articulate and exclude it. The sphcno-ma.riflain/ fossa, shaped like an inverted pyramid, is a small space between the maxilla and the root of the pterygoid process. It is bounded in front l)y the upper and inner part of the zygomatic surface of the maxilla, i internally by the vertical plate and the orbital and sphenoidal processes of j the palate-bone, behind by the roots of the pterygoid process and the lower I part of the anterior surface of the great wing of the sphenoid. The apexj leads into the posterior palatine canal, the base into the back of the orbit through the hind part of the splieuo-maxillary fissure. Internally the spheno- palatine foramen connects it with the nasal fossa, and behind are seen the foramen; rotundum, Vidian canal, and pterygo-palatine canal (in the order named, from above and without, downward and inward.) The fossa contains Meckel's gan- glion, with its roots and lirauches, and the terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery enclosed in a mass of fat. \ The lateral region presents postero-inferiorly the external auditory meatusy^ nearly in the same vertical transverse plane with the bregma, and behind this^ the mastoid process, with the variable mastoid foramen behind and above it. j, The base of the skull externally (Fig. 221) from the incisor teeth to the exter-J nal occipital protuberance is very irregular, and may be studied in three divisions.; The anterior or palate (lirision includes the hard palate, formed by the palatej processes of the maxillte and the palate-bones, and bounded laterally and in front by the alveolar arch. Medially in front notice the anterior palatine fossa, intci which four foramJua open, and from which, in young skulls, the suture separating, the premaxillary bone runs to the outer side of each lateral incisor tooth. At the posterior angles are the lower openings of the posterior palatine canals, from each of which a groove runs forward in the angle between the palate and the alveolai; arch for the anterior palatine nerve and the jiosterior palatine vessels. Th( haninlar processes are seen at the postcro-lateral limits of the hard ]ialate, behinc and internal to the last molar teeth. Between these and the posterior j>alatin< canal are the openings of the accessory and external palatine canals. The middle or subcranial division extends back to a line joining the tips of th(.: mastoid processes. It slopes upward and forward from behind, and is at a highei level than the anterior division. Between these two divisions are the foUowinjjTHE EXTERIOR OF THE SKULL. 193 vertically-placed structures : Mcsially are the podcrior narcfi, se])arated by the vomer, and bounded below by the horizontal plates of the palate-bones, laterally by the internal pterygoid plates, and above by the body of the sphenoid and the TCETH Fig. 221.—Base of the skull, viewed from below. (Testut.) alse of the vomer. On each side is seen the pteryc/oid fossa, conijileted by tlie tuberosity of the ])alate-bone below, and lodging the internal pterygoid and tensor palati mu.scles. The latter muscle arises from the scaphoid fossa, a subdivision at the upper part of the pterygoid fossa. External to the pterygoid fossa is the zygomatic fossa, whose roof forms part of the base of the skull. The basilar process of the occipital bone and a small part of tlie body of the sphenoid occupy the median portion of the middle division, while latendly are the petrosals and a small portion of the gi'eat wings of the sj)henoid, of the squamosals, and of the occipital bone. In the median line we notice the pjliaryn- f/eal tubercle and the front margin of the foramen tnagnum, termed the hasion. Laterally, in a nearly sagittal line, we notice from before backward the foramen ovale, the foramen spinosum, the opening of the bony and the groove for the cartilaginous Eustachian canal, the entrance of the carotid canal, and the jugular fossa and foramen. Internal to the latter is the anterior condylar foramen, and externally the stylo-niastoid, foramen. Between the extremities of the petrous portion of the temporal bone and of the basilar process of the occipital and the sphenoid we notice the foramen lacerum medium, filled by fibro-cartilage in 13194 THE BONES. the recent state. In an oblique line from the mastoid process to the external pterygoid plate we find projecting the styloid jjrocess, the v(i(jhi(d process of the tympanic bone, and the spijtc of ihe sphenoid, the latter at the inner end of the Glaserian fissure. On this surtlice is seen laterally the emineidia artieidaris in front of the articular part of the glenoid fossa, which is separated by the Glaserian fissure from the non-articular portion on the outer surface of the tympanic plate, which lodges the parotid gland. The line limiting this region behind passes through the jugular processes of the occipital bone, and cuts the condyles a little behind their centre. The posterior or suboccipital division extends back to the superior curved lines of the occipital bone, divided into two lateral halves by the external occipital crest. It includes, mainly, rough lines and intervening spaces for muscular attachment. Behind the condyles are the posterior condylar fossce and foramina when the latter are present. Internal to and slightly behind the mastoid processes are the digastric and occipital grooves, for the digastric muscles and the occipital arteries respectively. Fig. 222.—Front view of the skull, the mandible having been removed. (Testut.) The anterior or facial region (Fig. 222) presents the nasioi}, in the centre of'' the naso-frontal suture, below the glabella. Below the nasion is the prominent bridr/e of the nose, formed by the nasal bones and the nasal processes of the maxilljB. Below this is the anterior nasal aperture, which is shaped like an inverted heart and is often unsymmetrical. Its thin margins attach the nasal cartilages, and its lower border projects forward as the anterior nasal spine. In the, recent state it is bisected by the septal cartilages. Below this, on either side, are the incisor fossae. On either side of the bridge of the nose are the orbits, below which are the canine fossce, and external to the latter the prominences of th( cheeks, formed by the malar bones. The teeth are a prominent feature of thi; region, and below them the body of the lower jaw completes the anterior surface The three large_/bm)H//ir/, supraorbital, infraorbital, and mental, each for a brand of one of the three divisions of the fifth nerve, lie in a nearly vertical line drawi through the second lower bicuspid tooth or the interval between the two lowe bicuspids. The small malar canal is situated more laterally on the malar bone The orbits are two irregularly quadrilateral, pyramidal fossjE which lodge th eyeballs and their muscles, nerves, and vessels. The base of each, directed for195 THE EXTERIOR OF THE SKULL. ward and slightly oiitw;ird, is lormcd by tlic orbital margin, is quadrilateral in shape with rounded angles. It is bounded above by the frontal, with the supraorbital notch or foramen at the junction of its inner and middle thirds ; internally by the nasal process of the maxilla ; below by the infraorbital margins of the maxilla and malar, and externally by the malar l)()ne. The concave roof of each orbit is formed by the orbital ])late of the frontal and the small wing of the sphenoid. The outer huiIIs of the orbits divei'ge so as to be almost at right angles with each other, and are formed by the orbital surfaces of the great wings of the sphenoid and the malar bones, the latter containing the temporal and malar canals. The_^oo/', sloping from within downward and outward, is formed by the maxilla, with the orbital process of the palate-bone behind and a small I part of the malar bone in front. The iimer u-al/.s of the two cavities are nearly I parallel, and are so continuous with the floors as to give a triangular shape to the I orbit in some specimens, which is especially marked at birth. Each is formed, ■ from before backward, by the nasal j)rocess of the maxilla, the lachrymal bone, ! the OS planum of the ethmoid, and the body of the sphenoid. The apex of the j orbit is at the inner extremity of the sphenoidal fissure, whose outer end separates j the back part of the roof and outer wall. The optic foramen lies at the back of ! the orbital roof, above and internal to the apex. In the angle between the roof \ and the inner wall lie the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina in the eth- I moidal section of the transverse xiittire. The latter extends horizontally from \ one to the opposite external anguhir jirocess of the frontal bone, along the margins of the orbital jdates of the frontal and the nasal notch between. In the angle I between the roof and the outer wall, in front, is the fossti for tJie /acJirymal gland. In the angle between the outer wall and the floor in its posterior two-tliirds is the ' sphcno-maxillary fissure, communicating behind with the spheno-maxillary fossa, and in front with the zygomatic fossa. From its inner border the infraorbital I groove passes forward in the floor of the orl)it to the infraorbital canal. In the angle between the floor and the inner wall, and just behind the orbital margin, ! the lachrymal groove passes down into the lacliripnal canal. A depression, some- times a tubercle, for the jiuUey of the superior oblicpie muscle is seen a little behind the supero-internal angle of the orbital margin. 'Jlie orbits communicate with the cranial cavity and the nasal, spheno-maxillary, and zygomatic fossje. The nasal fossae (Fig. 223) are two irregular, oblong cavities of a truncated pyramidal shape. They are narrow transversely, es])ecially above, but have a considerable diameter vertically and from before backward. They extend from the base of the skull to the upper surface of the hard ])alate, and open in front by the anterior nasal a])erturc, and behind into the jiliarynx by the posterior nares. They are situated one on each side of a median, vertical sepAuin nasi or internal wall, formed by the vertical plate of the ethmoid, the vomer, the rostrum , of the sphenoid, the nasal spine of the frontal, and the crests of the nasal, max- illary, and palate bones. The angular interval between the vomer and the ethmoid plate in front is filled by the se])tal cartilage, which with the bony sep- tum is usually deflected to one side, most conmionly to the left. The narrow roof of each fossa has a middle horizontal part formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, with its many small apertures leading from the anterior ci'anial fossa, and an anterior and a jjosterior part sloping downward. The anterior slope is formed by the nasal bones and the nasal sjMue of the frontal. The posterior slope is formed by the body of the sjihenoid, the sphenoidal turbinate bones, the alffi of the vomer, and the sphenoidal ])rocesses of the palate-bones, and it contains the openings of the sphenoidal sinuses. The fioor of each fossa, wider than the roof, is smooth and concave transversely, with a slight backward slope. It is formed by the palate processes of the maxilla and palate-bone, and presents in front, close to I the septum, the incisor foramen (or canal), lending to the oral cavity. The exten- sive outer wall, sloped downward and outward, is formed by the nasal, maxillary, lachrymal, ethmoid, inferior turbinate, and palate bones, and the inner surface of the internal pterygoid plate. It presents three horizontal recesses or meatuses,196 THE BONES. overhung by three turbinate plates, of which the upper two belong to the etlnnoid, and the lower is the inferior turbinate l)one. The superior meatus, between the superior and inferior turbinate plates of the ethmoid, is very short, being limited to the posterior half of the fossa. It opens behind only, and into it open the posterior ethmoidal cells and the spheno-palatine Fig 223.—The nasal fossEp, viewed from the mi<idle line. (Testut.) foramen, which connects it with the spheno-raaxillary fossa. The middle meatus, between the inferior turbinate plate of the ethmoid and the inferior turbinate bone, is longer than the former. It opens both in front and behind, and into it open the maxillary sinus or antrum, and, by means of the infundibulum, the frontal sinus and the anterior ethmoidal cells. The inferior meatus, the longest and widest, also opens both in front and behind, and lies between the inferior turbinate bone and the floor of the nasal fossa. The nasal duct opens into it superiorly in front and connects it with the orbit. The nasal foss;e thus com- municate by narrow passages with all the neighboring fossfe and air-sinuses. The latter are hollow spaces within the maxilla, sphenoid, ethmoid, and frontal, already described in connection with those bones. With the exception of the antrum, which exists during foetal life, they originate during childhood, and all increase in size rapidly at j^nberty, and more slowly throughout adult life. The Interior of the Cranium. In a skull bisected horizontally or vertically notice the great proportionate size of the brain-cavity and the thickness and composition of its walls (Fig. 224). The latter consist of an outer and an imier table of compact bone and the inter- vening cancellous diploe ("fold"). The in'ner t(d)le, called the vitreous Udjle I'rom its hardness and brittleness, has a smooth, shining surface, marked with im])res- sions for the convolutions of the brain and with grooves for blood-vessels. The skull-cap or c<dvaria averages one-fifth of an inch in thickness, but along certain ridges, and especially at the base, the tliickness is much greater. Thinner areas exist in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid and the orbital plates of the frontal bone, where there is no diploe, and also in the lower occipital fossse, the scjuamous portions and glenoid foss;e of the temporal bones. The calvaria or skull-cap consists of a vaulted dome, formed by the frontal and parietal bones and the interparietal portion of the occipital bone. Its inner surface presents in the median line the (/roove for the superior longitudinal sinus, ending in front in the fronted, crest, and liehind at the internal occipital protuber- ance. On either side of the groove are varying numbers of depressions for Pae-THE INTERIOR OF THE CRANIUM. 197 chionian bodies. This surfat'O is marked by shallow cerebral impressions and grooves for meningeal vessels. The jHirietal foremen, for an emissary vein, is found, when present, at the side of the longitudinal sulcus near the postero- siiperior angle of the parietal bone. Fig. 224.—Sagittal section of skull, a little to the left of the middle line, the inner surface of the right half. (Testut.) The base or floor of the cranial cavity (Fig. 225) presents three irregular fos.s8e, termed anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior fossa, on a higher level than the rest of the cranial floor, sup- ports the frontal lobes of the cerebrum, and is formed by the orbital plates of the frontal bone, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and the small wings and part of the body of the sphenoid. Over the orbits it is convex, but mesially it is depressed into the olfactory grooves for the olfactory bulbs on either side of the 1 crista galli. In front of the crista is the foramen ca;cum. The floor of the olfactory gi-ooves presents the numei'ous ajiertures of the cribriform plate for the ' olfactory nerves, mesially the slit-like foramen through Avhich the nasal nerve ; passes into the nose, and laterally the internal openings of the anterior and poste- j rior ethmoidal canals. The middle fossa, on a lower level than the anterior, presents a central isthmus and two lateral depressed jiarts. The small median part, formed by the sella turcica and the olivary eminence, is limited behind by the dorsum sellfe, and in front by the anterior margin of the optic groove. It lodges the pituitary body and the optic commissure, and presents laterally the grooves for the carotid arteries from the foramina laeera media forward to the optic foramina. The lateral jiart on each side, limited behind by the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone and in front by the free margin of the small wing of the s])henoid, is formed by the great wing of the sj)henoid, the squamous portion, and the ante- rior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal. It lodges the temporal lobe of the cerebrum, and ]n'esents the following foramina from before backward : the sphenoidcd fissnrc leading into the orbit; the foramen rotundum, leading into the spheno-maxillarv fossa ; the foramen ovale and the foramen spinosmn, leading into the zygomatic fossa ; the foramen, laeerum medium, through which the carotid artery and plexus enter the cranial cavity ; and the hiatus Fallopii. Grooves for the middle meningeal artery pass from the foramen spinosum outward, upward,198 THE BONES. and backward on the gi-eat wing of the sphenoid, tlie squamous portion of tlie temporal, and the parietal bone. The posterior fomi, the deejjest and largest, lodges the cerebellum, medulla oblongata, and pons, and is formed by the occipital bone, the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal, the postero-inferior angle of the parietal, and the body of the sphenoid. Its anterior limits are the posterior limits of the middle fossa, and its posterior limits the grooves for the lateral sinuses, whose limiting ridges Fig. 225.—Base of the cranium, inner surface. (Testut.) attach the tentorium cerebelli. Tlie foramen, mergnani occupies the centre, and external to it from within outward are seen the anterior condylar foramen, the jugular foramen, and the internal auditory meatus. Behind the jugular foramen is the opening of the posterior condylar foramen when present, and more exter- nally, in the sigmoid sulcus, is the more constant mastoid foramen. The grooves for the lateral sinuses pass outward from the internal occijjital protuberance, usually cross the })osterior inferior angle of the jiarietal bone, and thence bend sinuously down and in on the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and onto the occipital l)one, where they curve forward and end at the ])osterior division of the jugular foramina. The grooves for the inferior petrosal sinuses lie along the suture between the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the occipital, and end in the anterior division of the jugular foramina. The jugular foramen (foramen lacerum posterius) is usually unsymraetrical and of a somewhat pyriform shape. It is often divided into three com[)artments by two more or less marked con-199 GENERAL MORPHOLOGY OF THE SKULL. strictions. Through the hirgest and most posterior of these the lateral sinus passes into the iutei'nal jugular vein, and a small meningeal branch of the ascend- ing pharyngeal artery ascends ; the middle compartment transmits the glosso- pharyngeal, vagus, and spinal accessory nerves, and the anterior (sometimes completely separated) transmits the inferior petrosal sinus. General Morphology of the Skull. The cranial nerves pass through the skull in foramina occupying sutures or indicating points of union of two or more ossific centres. The foramen rotun- dura is the only exception to this rule in the skull, and this is probably a separated segment of the sphenoidal fissure. The division into primary foramina, or those where the nerves pass through the dura (or original brain-case), and second- ary foramina, Avhich are bony tunnels or canals not found in simpler skulls, though interesting, is not of sufficient importance f(jr further description here. The remarkable constancy of the relation of the nerve foramina to the osseous elements has, with other focts, led to tlie conception of the vertebrate theory of the skull, which supposes that the skull is made up of a series of altered vertebrae, the neural arches of which have become greatly expanded to enclose the brain. \ Among the facts leading to this theory is the apparent construction of the skull in I three parts: 1, the central or basilar, prolonging forward the vertebral axis ] around and beyond the end of the notochord in the cranio-facial axis'; 2, the 1 siiperiar arches, three ^ in number, enclosing the brain ; 3, an equal number of inferior arches^ surrounding the visceral cavity, as represented by the nose, mouth, and pharynx. But, although from analogy we may imagine that the primitive human skull was segmented like the vertebral axis, there is no evidence of this, and for a number of other reasons the division of the head into vertebral segments is untrustworthy and fanciful. In the development of the skull three stages may be recognized : 1, the mcin- branous stage, in which the brain is enclosed in a membrane representing the dura of the adult; 2, the chondral star/e, in which the base and lower parts of the sides of the brain-case become cartilaginous, leaving the sides and roof mem- branous ; 3, the osseous stage, in which both cartilage and membrane become ossified from a large number of ossific centres, which first appear in the mem- brane. Along the sides and in front sense-capsules become invaginated, and indent the skull-wall in the ears, eyes, and nose. Some of the bojies of the skull jare developed wholly, others partly, in the basal cartilage and its forward pro- longation, the cartilaginous nasal capsule, or in the cartilaginous visceral arches ; while some are developed wholly, others partly, in the membrane of the cranial vault, in that around the nasal capsule (forming the greater part of the upper face), and in that connected with the visceral arches. The human skull, as compared with the skulls of lower vertebrates, is charac- terized by—1, its enormous lirain-space and the corresponding expansion of the bones of the cranial vault; 2, the jiroportionally smaller development of the lace, and especially of the jaws (bringing the face under the front of the cranium); 3, its being balanced and sup])orted on the vertebral column (adapting it to the 3rect position) by a sudden bend in the vertebro-cranial axis, and a great posterior levelopment of the cranium, bringing the occipito-vertebral articulation at the ;entre of gravity of the skull; 4, the downward opening of the nostrils and ke diminished size of the nasal fossa?, bringing the orbits nearer together, so as ' This is drawn from the basion to tlie anterior extremity of the sphenoid, and thence to the end f the anterior nasal spine (subnasal point), forming an angle, the cranio-facial. angle. ^ These consist of—1, the squamosal part of the occipital bone ; 2, the great wings of the sphe- oid, the squamosals of the temporal bones, and the parietals ; 3, the small wings of the sphenoid jnd tlie frontal bone. ' These include in the first arch the pterygoids, the palate, and the maxillary bones ; in the Jcond, the mandible, the spheno-mandibular ligament, and the malleus of the ear ; in tlie third, 16 styloid process, the liyoid bone, and tlie stylo-hyoid ligaments, plus the incus, and perhaps part f the malleus of the ear.200 THE BONES. to be nearly parallel internally and to look forward. The bones of the Innnan skull are more comjiletely eonsolidated, so that the total number is less than in the lower vertebrates. Thus the pre- and post-sphenoids, the interparietals, the squamosals, the styloids, the ])terygoids, and the preniaxill;^ arc often sejjarate bones, and the frontal bone and mandible are freipiently divided into two halves in vertebrate skulls. The Various Forms of the Skull. The shidl at birth is characterized by the small size of the face and the vcrv lai'ge size of the cranium, the smalhiess of the base, the prominence of the parietal and frontal eminences, the absence of the mastoid processes, the diploe, the suture serrations, the impressions, grooves, and ridges, and by the existence of the fontanelles. The temporal squama and the great wings of the sphenoid do not extend far upward, and the glenoid fossfe are quite flat and small. Variations icifh Agr.—The skull grows very rapidly during the first seven years. During the first dentition the fontanelles close, tlie face enlarges, the jaws lengthen, and the zygoma projects. Bi/ the seventh year some parts, such as the circumference of the foramen magnum, the petrous portion of the temporal bones, the body of the sphenoid, and the cribiform plate, have attained their definitive size, while other parts are quite immature. Near the approach of puberty a second period of active growth begins, and results in the elongation of the face, due to the increased height of the nasal fossse, the expansion of the air-sinuses, the enlarged teeth of the second dentition, and the augmented height of the alveolar arches of the jaws. Ossification becomes completed, and the adult shape and size are attained. The capacity increases but little after thirteen years of age. In later years the muscular crests develop, the frontal region elongates, and the air-passages and cells expand, the latter process continuing in old age. In old age the skull undergoes atrophy, becoming thinner, lighter, and, often a little smaller by absorption on the outer surface. The air-cells expand as the capacity diminishes, and the face becomes smaller by absorption of the alveolar processes and the loss of the teeth, causing the upper jaAV to retreat and the lower to project at the chin. Sexual Varicdions.—The male skull is larger, heavier, and of greater capacity (11 :10), especially in the frontal and occipital regions, than the female, and the ridges, occipital protuberance, mastoid processes, zygomatic arches, and frontal sinuses are more develo^jed. The female skull preserves a look of immaturity in the smaller proportion of the face, the narrower and less prominent jaws, the ]irominence of the parietal eminences, and the smoothness of the surface. Bace differences, excejit among three or more large general classes, are often so slight, taking averages, as to require accurate and uniform cranial measure- ment or craniometry fur their determination. Of the measurements the most important are the following, with the data of the average European skulls for each : (1) The capacity, 14.30 c.c, affording a convenient indication of the devel- opment of the brain. (2) The circumference, 52 cm., taken in a plane passing behind through the occipital point (or the point of the occipital bone in the median plane farthest removed from the glabella), and in front through the ophryon (or the middle of the line drawn across the narro\vest part of the fore- head). (3) The length, 17 em., from the o])hrvon to the occipital point. This is above the frontal sinus, and gives the lengtli of the brain-case only, while the maximum loigth is between the glabella and the occipital ])oint. (4) The maxi- mum breadth is the gi'eatest breadth between the parietals; the breadth at the level of the zygomata is 12.5 cm. (5) The height from the basion to the bregma is nearly the same as the breadth. The cranio-facial angle is about 96°. For the ready comparison of race-measurements the breadth and height are reduced 100 X breadth .tr height to indexes l)y comparison with the length as follows : r~n~"th 'THE VARIOUS FORMS OF THE SKULL. 201 Furthermore, the shape of tlie transverse arch of tlie eraiiiiun, the fusion or complexity of the sutures, the degree of projection of the jaws (indicating an approach to, or a removal from, the animal type), the relation between the height and the width of the anterior nasal aperture (or nasal index), and of the base of the orbits (or orl)ital index), are subject to variation among different races. The facial aiif/fe (of Cloquet), which helps to determine the relative development of the face and the frontal jjart of the cranium, is that tbrmed by two lines meeting in the median line at the alveolar border of the maxilla, and drawn, one from tbe most prominent median frontal point and the other from the middle of the external auditory meatus. Several other measurements for more accurate determination of the form of the cranium are in use, for which Broca's or other works on craniology should be consulted. The situation and direction of the foramen magnum differ greatly in man and the lower animals, and to some extent among tlie different races of man. In quadrupeds it is placed dorsally and looks backward, in man at or near the centre of the base, and looks downward and slightly forward in the European, downward and slightly backward in the negro; while in the anthropoid apes it is intermediate in position and direction as compared with that in man and the ] quadrupeds. I The most frequent irregulariiy of form is want of symmetry, which is usually I present to a slight degree. Asymmetry usually depends \\\)on premature synos- i tosis or closure of one or more sutures, preventing growth in a direction at right ' angles to the line of that suture, and tending to increase the growth in other j directions. Artiffci:d pressure applied in early life may also cause irregularity of form, as seen in the case of the Flat-headed Indians.203 THE ARTICULATIONS. By GEORGE WOOLSEY. THE articulations, or johds, are the connections existing between contignous parts of the recent hnnum skeleton. Softer substances intervene between the ends of the bones, and a fibrous capsule, with or without accessory ligaments, binds them together. The articular surfaces, or ends of the bones, which are expanded in the case of long bones, are coated by a layer of connective tissue, or hyaline, or white fibro-cartilage. When hyaline cartilage is present as articular cartilage, its free surfaces are very smooth, and thus minimize friction, and it serves to dimin- ish jars by its elasticity. It is thickest where the ])ressure is the greatest. The white fibro-eartilage occurs as connecting fibro-rartihige in the discs between the vertebrte and in the symphysis pubis ; as interartieular fbro-cartilnge in the plates in the temporo-mandibular and sterno-clavicular joints, and in the menisci in the knee-joint; and as marginal jibro-cartUage in the shoulder and hip-joints^ where it deepens the sockets. The interarticular fibro-cartilages jiartly or com- pletely divide the joint into two halves; they adjust dissimilar bony surfaces,,, increase the motion and security, and act as buffers to break shocks. Connective tissue exists between contiguous bones of the skull as suture nienihrane. The ligaments, which arc the principal objects of study in this section, are- strong, inextensible, but pliant bantls of white fibrous tissue, continuous Avith the periosteum of the bones they unite. They occur in the shape of a more or less perfect capsule, usually reinforced where there is the most strain by external accessory bands or ligaments derived from intermuscular septa, modified tendons, or regressed muscles. ! In joints moving on many axes the entire capsule and surrounding muscles jare nearly uniformly strong ; in those moving on one axis the lateral parts of the jcapsule are strengthened and designated as lateral ligaments. In some cases ligaments are formed of yellow elastic tissue, as the ligamenta subflava, where lithe parts united are not in contact. The deep surface of the capsule is lined by the synovial membrane, which extends to, but not over, the articular cartilage. In the shape of folds or fringes it frequently projects into the joint-cavity, especially near the margin of the car- tilage, where, often padded with fat, it fills up the interstices between the bones. This part of the membrane is highly vascular and liable to become villous and )eduncu]atcd, in which case it may cause pain by being pinched between the joint-surfaces. It secretes a thick, glairy fluid called synoria, which lubricates he joint. The synovial cavity sometimes communicates with bursas and vaginal ynovial membranes in the neighborhood of a joint. Embryologically, a joint is formed from the tissue between the adjacent })arts |if the skeleton. This embryonic tissue may become the fibrous tissue of the juture membrane where the bones are developed in membrane, as in most of jhe bones of the skull ; or it may become the thicker fibro-cartilage of the inter- ertebral discs, symphysis pubis, etc., where the bones are developed in cartilage. L partial synovial membrane may occur in this intervening cartilage. In more lovable joints the synovial sac is more extensive, and the fibro-cartilage is inter-TST A^TICZXATIOyS. These plaie~ of nbro-cardia •vraTs-HTi L- - - - - ■ In a _ „ ; : mcvic,^. in- 'iiiissiiicaiio "I'c^'i'iil sacs. a~ in lite stemo-clavicnlar joint, etc. iTc El;; • : : riied. or form merelv a meniscus, >e <;■: " - . as in the kne*. or they mav be ^ oi liie Ei<;-re movable joints. ^/.^erences. articulations are more or less : -w employe! is largely physiological, .: motion, as ioUotv? : Kinds of Joints. cbk J'?iY,t-^ 1 in a '^'^Ti lafer ox nc'r.I:- ns; ^ tmmor- : onlv bv as IT. to Cv — -1 disiinir-i-r. "r.: L^ekei as m ove: In The Si: ■:. or XQCllKie "vriiiie n: r:-. _ " ^ ;. _ _ : aiid *VTidf^iO^. "wii^rs an loirer tf' -n ' ~jit " " :>i this ciasi are iiabie r-arly life permit inter- -alled iuture^j of Trfiieh we ■Tiiated ^Mure^. vrhere the margins are inter- - - 7 - rively. :^ is simple apposition, as . where bevelled edges 7 - fits into a groove . 7j.e vomer, here the thin layer of tt. as in the onion rarv k iiit£iv«5sec»a5 ligam-: ri'T-re t* are liotd bv svnovial m-r.: r: - ~^^-^T:n: tion oi the x-int. more or less perfeer . ^ - - . _ . : _ relaxed in oilers, are orten chieflv contr*:'- inz TSiuScl^. aided bv 2~ "ressi loTrins varieties are dist . die sphenoid and ' ' 7''Vtrnc-TtT -jTjjJ -^TTTic-es, as in the - joints containing : e bones, tbest -77 the lubrka- forming Tiiie the sorr :>:-^ether. The : aija tar- - oite axis. oeLween tue cy. Cor - tween the i socket. ex and c^ijocave sar^ces, as in -T&ces, Trhich allow abdncrtli|^ -xtension. as in the metacarp*- The snr&ces are redpro- . ^<>int5 by redjprfjeal rtttf- an example. ment in every direction be ler and hip. They are dieT^iTg "Trfi'"-tTr]F?Tn">. -unsni 'r ~rr.m xLfc Tit-rii;n i^^.n^ jr :±ift wwfr: liii ^miille ins^ XT Tlfc ifimT. IE i i HjnnjiiamiiL xc it Inur mgntn' oigr^gmfrrn^. -^i m-nr Tie : (E TTtii'-^TlfOTTT ^sf i ^nmifc -^rirrrrir TC fe- . - _ ^rrgm;?!- tc T-i-n^iin-' -ninrm-n. _ti ^iTHIOX'TI. X< llL Tisair" Tg-^TTTFTTT^ ire iccnefL ttiit aiEsaninimijBss jcc 3tsrF£— _ ~ ir -fTTT4"fTTTT- JX TT^-prt^ TTI CTTTfrf riTT TT-nTTT^pg- (T ^IC irfir anmml i^^ znn—itsr isanns tx TtnE ±tii ^ X'^iis- inacrr:. ~ ^neiE TiT'taiEiiL jr- -^tz "smrz Twr-^-k^ nuii& 'trTrrr .TO- ^mnn. "'- c A ~ y — . ~ ~ "'- €: "'4 . ^ aT~ I. ril;:^ -1-nTTn'grrrrmg if TsrsarsI T.-nnmTr ^ ' IsantaiE- - "ran rnis-mtfrnm lipnm^im. latt suneemir: Tsrm -5 axi - . i"X3iin2THisiiiJ± TW?rF!=-.. "TTTTi-n 3m- J*---- : - i_~ —i[ni& " i_ iroiLTmr sns-is ifeTHE ARTICULATIONS. 206 convexity forward in the former, and increase tiuit in tlie latter, region. Those in the thoracic region are thicker behind, if anywliere, and so increase its curve. They form in the aggregate one-quarter of the length of the movable pai't of the vertebral column, which assumes a single curve, concave in front, the cwve of old age, if the discs are removed or dried up. In structure the discs are made up of two parts. The external or laminar portion forms more than half the POST. COM- MON LIGAMENT Fig. 226.—Two lumbar vertebra in sagittal section. (Testut.) mass, and consists of concentric layers of fibrous tissue with more and more cartilage-cells toward the centre. The fibres pass obliquely between the vertebrae and in the reversed direction in adjoining layers. Some layers are found only in front, making this part of the disc thicker, so that the central or pulpi/ portion is situated a little behind the centre. The latter is a yellowish elastic, ball-like mass, composed of a fine fibrous matrix, imbedded in which is a net-work of angular, branching cells, more numerous toward the centre. It is a remnant of the notochord. On section of the disc through the pulpy portion the latter bulges out above the rest, showing that it is compressed by the laminar portion, j so that it forms, as it were, a ball or pivot upon which the vertebral bodies move. , A synovial cavity is described by Luschka in each central pulpy portion. The ' intervertebral discs are surrounded on all sides by a sheath of fibrous ligaments, | incomplete laterally where the thin and more or less scattered fibres reach from one bone to the next, and are sometimes called the lateral or short vertebral ligaments. The anterior common, ligament is the strong band on the front of the bodies of the vertebrfe. It extends from the under surface of the occipital bone, in the median} line in front of the foramen magnum, to the front of the sacrum, reappearing ' below as the anterior sacro-coceygecd ligament. Above it is narrow and cord-like, \ and forms the thickened central portion of the anterior occipito-cdlantcd and of the' anterior edlanto-axial ligaments. Below this it becomes broader as it descends. Of its fibres, which are dense, well-marked, and longitudinal, the superficial pass overj several, the deep only between adjacent vertebra?. The fibres are attached to the| intervertebral discs and to the edges of the vertebral bodies, and bridge over the ' median depressions of their ventral surface, thus rendering this surface more even. It limits extension. The posterior common ligament extends along the dorsal surface of the bodies j of the vertebrae within the spinal canal from the basilar groove of the occi])itali bone to the coccyx. Its upper end, often bilaminar, forms the posterior occipito-'i^ axicd ligament between the axis and occipital bone. It is broad and even in the^ neck, extending completely across the vertebral bodies, narrower and dentated. below. The broad dentations are at its attachment to the discs and margins of i the vertebrae, and between them are the narrowed jiortions, separated from thcj backs of the bodies by venous plexuses. The superficial fibres extend over severalTHE ARTICULATIONS OF THE VEETEBBAL COLUMN. 207 vertebrae, the deep over one or two. Its smooth, shining, dorsal surface is sep- arated from the dura by loose connective tissue except at the foramen magnum. It limits flexion. The joints between the articular processes are arthrodial or gliding joints. They are provided with synovial cavities, enclosed by capsular ligaments, which are loosest in the neck, strongest and tighter in the lumbar region, and tightest in the thoracic region. In the neck the inner part of the capsule is formed by the elastic tissue of the ligamenta subflava, which form more and more of the capsule in the thoracic and lumbar regions. Intermediate Ligaments Uniting the Neural Arches.—The ligamenta mbflava, composed of yellow fibrous tissue, connect the laminae of adjacent vertebrae from the axis to the sacrum. In the upper two spaces they are continued, with less, or no, elastic tissue, under special names. Superiorly they are attached to the ventral surface of the laminae, above their lower borders, and inferiorly to the upper borders and the adjacent parts of the dorsal surfaces. They become thicker and stronger below, and are best seen from in front. Laterally they are continuous with, and form part of, the capsular ligaments, reaching as far as the intervertebral foramina; mesially the lateral halves unite beneath the roots of the spines, from which point the interspinous ligaments ex- tend back as membranous bands between the adjacent borders of the spines. These are best marked in the lumbar region, where the fibres extend from the root of one spine to the tip of the next above. In the cervical region they are replaced by the interspinales muscles. They extend dorsally to the supra- spinous ligament'i, which form a continuous cord along the tips of the spines from the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra to the coccyx, covering the lower end of the sacral canal. They consist of longitudinal fibres, of which the deep fibres connect the tips of adjacent spines, and the superficial pass over several. Above it is continued to the external occipital protuberance as the ligamentum nuchce (Fig. 227), from which a thin median septum passes forward to be at- tached to the occipital crest and the cervical spines. In the lower animals the nape liga- from the7ight^sWe:'"?HenVeT ment is strong and elastic, and supports the head; in man it is of mixed white and yellow fibrous tissue in structure, and forms a median intermuscular septum of no great importance. The intertransverse ligaments are unimportant and indistinct bands between the transverse processes. They are rounded and small in the thoracic region ; they correspond to the ventral part of the superior costo-transverse ligaments in the lumbar region, and are wanting or replaced by the intertransversales muscles in the cervical region. Movements.—The spinal column must combine strength with mobility, for, as the axis of the skeleton, it has to bear great weight and resist shocks. For this reason, and to avoid injury to the contained spinal cord, it is necessary that the movement between any two vertebrae should be slight, while that of the column, as a whole, is very considerable. Motion occurs in all directions around the pulpy portion of the discs as a centre, and is limited in part by the ligaments, in part by the articular processes, which thus steady the column. Motion is most free where the bodies are smallest or the intervertebral discs thickest. The former208 THE ARTICULATIONS. C())i(!!tioii is f'oimd in tlie cervical, the latter in tlie lunibar rcgi(jii, and these are! the two most niiA'ablc parts. The direction of motion in any region is regulated by the shape of the arti(^ular processes. j In the neck all movements are permitted by the obliquity of the articular] processes. Extemion is more free than elsewhere, and jiexion is free, but lessj than in the lumbar region. Ldteral flexion is more extensive than in any other region, but it is a combination with rotation, neither motion occurring freely] by itself, excejit in the lower cervical region, where rotation is free. But little j motion is allowed between the axis and the third cervical vertebra, owing to thej tliinness of the disc and the overla[)ping of the axis in front. j III the thoracic region extension is checked by the overlapping of the laniinse'l and spines, as well as by the shape of the articular processes. The latter also| prevent flexion. As the articular processes lie in the arc of a circle of which thej centre is in front between the bodies, rotation is permitted and is most free in the upper jiart. Lateral flexion, otherwise possible, is prevented by the ribs. j In the lumbar regioyi, owing to the thickness of the discs (especially betweenl the lower three vertebrae), flexion is very free, extemion moderately so. The! centre of the circle in which the articular ])rocesses lie is situated behind ; but,! owing to the fact that these processes do not tit closely together, a slight aniountj of rotation and some lateral flexion are permitted, the lateral motion being alsq limited by the great transverse diameter of the bodies. j Motion is. therefore most free in regions whose curve is convex forward,j whose spinal canal and the contained spinal cord are largest, and where there are no bony cavities containing viscera. The ligamenta subflava complete the! spinal canal, prevent the ca])sular ligaments from being nipped between thej articular surfaces during motion, and restore these surfaces to their norma] position after movement. They have but little, if any, etfect in limiting flexioi; or restoring the column to the erect position after flexion. 2. The Articulations and Ligaments Between the Atlas, Axis, and Occipital Bone. The essential diifei'cnce between these and the intervertebral articulation; in general lies in the absence or modification of the intervertebral discs. Thi specialization of motion between these three bones results in some differences ii the ligaments, though most of them are the continuation of the series founc below. A. The Articulations between the Axis and the Atlas (Figs. 228, 229).—Ther^ are here two sets of synovial joints or articulations : 1. The joints between the superior articular processes of the axis and thl lateral masses of the atlas are arthrodial. Each is surrounded by a capntdd, lif/amerit, strengthened at the iimer and dorsal aspect Ijy an accessory lif/amm wliich passes from the back of the body of the axis upward and outward, alonj the outer edge of the occipito-axial ligament, to the lateral mass of the atla| behind the transverse ligament. j 2. The articulations of the odontoid process in the ring between the ventra arch of the atlas in front and the transverse ligament behind are of the troclmdA class. There are two synovial sacs—one in front, between the odontoid proce.'! and the atlas ; the other and more extensive one behind, between the odontoij process and the transverse ligament. These two sacs are separated by transversJ fibres, which pass from the sides f)f the odontoid i)rocess to the atlas, in front o, the tubercles for the transverse ligament. The transverse ligament is a thicl dense, and very strong band, which passes across the ring of the atlas betweo the tubercles on the inner side of its lateral masses. It is arched slightl backward, flattened from before backward, and cartilage-clad in front as it pafis< beliind the narrowed and faceted neck of the odontoid, which it holds in placj and by doing this preserves our lives. From and across the (-entre of its dors;THE ARTICULATIONS BETWEEN THE ATLAS, AJ^IS, ETC. 209 aspect thin bundles of fibres pass upward and downward to the cranial aspect of the anterior border of the foramen magnum, and to the dorsum of the body of the axis respectively. These Avith the transverse portion form a cross, hence the name crucial Iigainenf, sometimes applied to the grouj). Two other ligaments unite the axis and atlas. The anterior aflanto-axia/ ligament is a thin membrane between the ventral arch of the atlas and the front of the body of the axis, rep- FiG. 225.—Sagittal section of the joints between the occipital bone and the atlas and axis. Testut.) esenting the anterior common ligament, whose direct upward continuation is leen as a median cord-like thickening of the ligament attached to the ventral 'ibercle of the atlas. The posterior atlanto-axial ligament represents the liga- -enta subflava, but has little ela.stic ti.ssue. It loosely connects the dorsal arch it the atlas and the laminte of the axis, and is perforated on each side by the l^nd cervical nerves. B. Ligaments between tlie Axis and the Occipital Bone fFigs. 228, 229).— \ ae orx-ipifo-ajrial or rx-cipit'x-ervical ligament is the upper end of the posterior >mmon ligament extending from the third and second cer^'ical vertebrae to 16 basilar groove of the occipital bone. Some of its fibres pass over the axis ithout attachment, giving rise to two layers, of which the hind one may be sdgnated the posterior, and the forward one the middle, occipito-axial ligament. he lateral odontoid, alar, or check ligament-i are two strong fibrous cords, which ctend from the sides of the summit of the odontoid process transversely out- ard to the rough impression on the inner side of each occipital condyle. They ; at a little higher level than the transverse ligament. Each is made tense by liming the head to the opposite side. The middle odontoid or m-spensory ligq- 'nt (anterior occipito-axial ligament) is a slender, median, fibrous band connect- 2 the apex of the odontoid and the fore part of the margin of the foramen agnum. It is relaxed bv flexion, tightened bv extension. 14THE ARTICULATIONS. 210 The suspensory ligament is derived from the sheath of the notoehord, between the first vertebral centrum and the basi-oecipital, and is homologous with an inter- vertebral disc. The transverse and check ligaments are each derived from the fonjiif/al /kjamcnts (ligamentum conjugale costarum). These, in the embryo, con- nect tlie heads of each pair of ril)s or costal processes around the back of the inter- vertebral discs, and persist as the interarticular ligaments of the heads of the ribs. Fig. 229.—Articulations of the occipital bone with the upper cervical vertebrse. The arches have been removed, and the spinal canal is thus exposed. (Testut.) Ilovemenfs.—In the atlanto-axial articulation rotation of the head together with the atlas takes place around the odontoid process as a pivot for about 30° to either side in a nearly horizontal plane. It is limited by the check and atlanto-axoidean ligaments. As both facets in each lateral atlanto-axoidean articulation are con- vex, with the convexities in contact when the head looks forward, rotation causes the convexities of the atlantal foccts to descend from those of the axis. This decreases the space and relaxes the ligaments between the bones, thus allowing further rotation, with security in all positions. Slight tlexion and extension and some lateral flexion are also allowed between the atlas and the axis. C. The Articulations of the Atlas with the Occipital Bone.—This consists of a symmetrical pair of condylar jdints between the occipital condyles and the upper facets of the lateral masses of the atlas. Each joint is provided Avith a rather lax capsular ligament. In front and behind these the ventral and dorsal arches of the atlas are connected with the margins of the foramen magnum by the anterior and jjoderior oeeij>ito-atI<infal lic/dments res2:)ectively. The anterior occipifo-atlantal Uf/avieiit is thin and membranous, strengthened in front in the median line by a round accessory ligament, which is the ujiper end of the anterior common ligament. The posterior oecipito-atlantal ligament represents the liga- mentum sui)flavum, but is without elastic fibres, and is also thin and membranous.211 THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE THORAX. This ligament does not limit motion between the bones. The dura is adlicrent to its ventral surface, and the dorsal surface lies in the floor of the suboccipital triangle. A band of libres at the lateral margins of the ligament arches over the back of the vertebral oroove on each side to the superior articular process, com- pleting a foramen for the vertebral artery and the suboccipital nerve. The lidcral occipifo-at/antal Ugaments are strong librous bands between the transverse processes of the atlas and the jugular processes of the occipital on eacli side, which strengthen the capsular ligaments externally, and lie behind the rectus capitis lateralis muscles. Movements of fe.rion and extension are freely allowed. Extension is checked by the anterior occipito-atlantal, flexion by the occipito-axial and hind ])art of the capsular ligaments. Some lateral gliding is also allowed, Ijy which the outer edge of the condyle on the one side is depressed, and on the other is elevated in relation to its socket. Or the movement may be obliquely lateral, one condyle advancing slightly at the same time that it is depressed toward the median line, while the opposite condyle takes the reverse position. This is the position of greatest stability, and is assumed in the most easy and natural attitudes. Lateral movements are restrained by tlie check ligaments and the lateral parts of the cap- sules. No true rotation is allowed. The symmetrical and bilateral arrangement of these joints, combined with the median odontoid pivot, provides the strength and security which are necessary to life, and which are greater than are obtained in a ball-and-socket joint, with equal freedom of motion. A passageway for the cord is also provided, subject to less motion than in case the joint were of the ball-and-socket variety. The ligaments passing over and between the odontoid process and the occiput by being lax in the erect position allow of flexion, which tightens them. The head balances upon the fore part of the condyles when tlie orbits look a little upward. By this arrangement, chai-acteristic of the human figui'c, the head is held erect without undue muscular effort or a strong ligamentum nuclue. If the muscles relax, the head will nod either foi'ward or backward according as the centre of gravity is in front or behind the balance line. 3. The Articulations of the Thorax. (Figs. 230, 231.) A. The Costo-vertebral Articulations, or those between the ribs and the ver- tebrae, are subdivided into cosfo-central and costo-transverse artirnlations. (a) In the costo-eentral artieulation the head of the rib is united to the body of a single vertebra in the case of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, elsewhere to the bodies of two vertebrje and the intervening intervertebral disc. When the rib-head articulates with a single vertebra, there is a single synovial sac, otherwise two separate sacs, surrounded by a capsular ligament, which is composed of short fibres and is reinforced in front by the anterior costo-central or stellate ligament. This consists of pearly-white fibres, radiating from the front of the head of the rib upward to the body of the vertebra above, forward to the intervertebral disc, and downward to the body of its proper ver- tebra. In the case of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs the stellate arrangement of fibres is not quite as distinct. The inter articular ligament is a thin, transverse band of short, strong fibres between the intervertebral discs and the ridge separating the two facets on the head of the rib, excepting the first, tenth, eleventh, and twefth, where it is wanting. It separates the two synovial sacs, and is loose enougli to allow of moderate rotation. (6) The cfjsto-transverse articulation is between the tubercle of each rib of the upper ten pairs and the front of the tip of the transverse process of the vertebra bearing the same number as the rib. Each joint has a thin, loose capsular lig- ament, enclosing a synovial sac, and strengthened on three sides by the costo- transverse ligaments. The middle costo-transrerse or intero-^seous ligament consists of short horizontal fibres between the back of the neck of the rib and the frontTHE ARTICULATIONS. 212 of the corresponding transverse process, and extending from tlie capsule i)f the costo-ceutral to that of the costo-transverse articulation. It is best seen in a transverse section, and is rudimentary in the case of the eleventh and twelfth ribs. The jjostcrior codo-franstierse ligament is a short strong liand extending from the outer end of the transverse process outward and upward to the rough non-articular part of the tubercle of the corresponding rib. It is wanting to the eleventh and twelfth ribs. The superior costo-transverse ligament consists of a broad, tiat, iibrous band between the upper border of the neck of each rib below the first, and the lower border of the transverse process next above it. Two layers are often distinguishable—the ventral, passing upward and outward, the dorsal and more scattered fibres passing upward and inward. Externally this ligament is continuous with the fascia lining the external intercostals ; internally it is free and thickened ; in front it is in relation with the intercostal vessels and nerves. Fig. 230—Articulation of the vertebral bodies with tal section : upper surface of lower segment, right each other, and of the ribs with the spine. (Testut.) side. (Testut.) B. The Costo-chondral Synarthroses.—The costal cartilages are joined to the cup-shaped ends of the ribs by the continuity of the investing perichondrium and periosteum. C. Tlie Chondro-sternal Articulations are between the fossse on the lateral borders of the sternum and the inner ends of the cartilages of the u])per seven (the sternal) ribs. The first rib is joined by synarthrosis to the sternum. The others have synovial joints, generally single, but in the case of the second rib usually double on one or both sides. When the synovial sac is double, an inter- articular ligament connects the ridge on the facet of the cartilage with the fibro- cartilage between the manubrium and body of the sternum. A similar ligament sometimes exists in the other joints. The synovial sac is frequently obliterated in the joints of the sixth and seventh cartilages. The chondro-sternal joints are surrounded by short capsular ligaments, most developed in front, above, and below, where they are called, respectively, anterior, superior, and inferior chondro-sternal ligaments. In the anterior ligament the fibres radiate from the front of the inner end of the cartilage to the front of the sternum, where they decussate with the oppo- site ligament and adjoin those above and below. The so-called posterior chondro- sternal ligainent is little more than the continuity of periosteum and perichondriumSTERNAL AR TICULA TIONS. 213 with a few accessory capsular fibres. Tlie chondro-x'ipho'ul fir/amenf is a flat band connecting the front of tlie xiphoid cartilage with that of the seventh, and often of the sixth, costal cartilage. D. The Interchondral Articulations are arthrodial joints between the cartilao'cs from the sixth to the ninth (inclusive), situated a little in front of their upward bend, where blunt processes on the lower edges come in contact with the upper margins of the cartilages below. They have a complete capsule enclosing a sijnorial .me, and reinforced by oblique fibres from the anterior intercostal fascia. E. Sternal Articulations.—The union of the manubrium and body of the sternum forms a sym]ihysis in which the connecting fibro-cartilage may cf)ntain a partial synovial cavity with a layer of cartilage above and below. The fibres of the radiating chondro-sternal ligaments and the periosteum, reinforced by longitudinal fibres in front and behind, but especially behind, strengthen the union of these two parts. The xiphoid cartilage is similarly united synar- throdially to the lower end of the body of the sternum, at a level somewhat behind that of the ventral surface of the sternum. The chondro-xiphoid ligament is an accessory ligament of this joint. The connecting cartilage mav ossify in old age. Movements of the Ribs and of the TJtorax as a Whole (Fig. 232).—In inspira- tion the thorax is enlarged in its three diameters, transverse, antero-posterior, and vertical. The increase in the vertical diameter is caused partly by the eleva- tion of the upper ribs, and the result- ing widening of the intercostal spaces, but is mainly due to the action of the diaphragm. The increase in the other two directions is due to the move- ments of the ribs, which are greatest where the ribs are longest, most ob- lique, and most curved at their angles ((. e., at the sixth, seventh, and eighth ribs opposite the bulkiest part of the lungs), and least in the short flat first and second ribs. As the ribs articulate with the vertebrse by two series of closely ap- proximated joints, the axis rotation, which is the chief movement here, must pass through both joints—e., obliquely outward, backward, and SOmewnat aownwaiCl. \\ nen tne up- and sternum in inspiration: a indicates the degree of icanl rotation of inspiration occurs, the ^Pj^movement; b. tliat of forward movement. (Tes- ventral ends of the ribs, which are inclined obliquely downward, are elevated. By thus decreasing the obliquity of the ribs the front wall of the thorax is carried upward and forward, and its cavity is enlarged sagittally. The ventral ends of the ribs cannot be elevated without straightening out the angles with the costal cartilage, which throws this end of the ribs outward, increasing the transverse diameter in front. The return of the cos- tal cartilages to the natural angle after inspiration is a principal factor in the resiliency of the thorax, to Avhich quiet expiration is due. As the axis of rotation is oblique, upward rotation also elevates the lateral part of the riljs and everts their lower borders, thus increasing the transverse diameter behind. In the first ribs the axis is more nearly transverse ; hence their motion is mostly a slight elevation and depression of their fore But as the obliquity of the axis increases from above downward, the outward movement becomes more exten- sive in the lower ribs. Owing to the plane and sloping articular surfaces on the transverse processes of the vertebrie, from the seventh to the tenth only, there is, besides rotation, a slight backward and upward motion in inspiration andTHE ARTICULATIONS. 214 the opposite in expiration, which is still more marked in the eleventh and twelfth ribs, where there are no costo-transverse articulations. In the upper six ribs, where the facets on the transvei'se j^rocesses are situated lower and are more con- cave as we ascend, there is rotation only. In the case of the eleventh and twelfth ribs there is little elevation, and the twelfth rib may even l)e drawn downward in iiis])iration by the quadratus lumboruni. The widening of the lower part of the thorax in inspiration increases the power of the diajihragm and counteracts the compression of the abdominal viscera. The costo-vertebral articulations with their ceaseless movement are remarkable for their freedom from disease. At the cliondro-sternal articulations, except the first, there is a slight hinge- motion on two axes, sagittal and obliquely vertical. Owing to these two move- ments the sternum is carried neither so far foi'ward nor upward as the anterior ends of the ribs and cartilages. Otherwise its motion would be detrimental to the heart, etc. behind. In the interchondral joints only a limited gliding is allowed, and the sternal articulations merely increase the elasticity and strength of the sternum. The hinge-motion, often wrongly asci'ibed to the ribs at the costo-central joints, can only occur with a sliding motion at the costo-transverse articu- lation. Although this may occur in the lower ribs, it cannot in the upper, owing to the rounded concavities in the transverse processes. Slight rotation on a single axis, as above indicated, accounts for all the motions ascribed to the ribs. 4. The Temporo-mandibular Articulation (Figs. 233-235). This articulation consists of a jiair of symmetrically placed ginglymo-arthro- dial joints. Their dissimilar articular surfaces, the ventral halves of the glenoid fossse, and the articular eminences of the squamous portions of the temporal bones Fig. 233.—Temporo-mandibular articulation in sagittal section. (Testut.) above and the condyles of the mandi!)le below, are adjusted together by the inter- posed interarticular cartilages. It is best seen when the jaw is divided in front of the ramus, and the latter is freed of its attachments. The bones are united hy a thin loose capmlar ligament attached outside of the articular surfaces on the two bones. The external lateral ligament consists of those accessory fibres, strengtliening the capsule, which pass from the lower border and tubercle of the zygoma downward and backward to the outer side and back of the neck of the condyle. This ligament on one side serves as the internal liga- ment of the opposite side. The inner part of the capsule, sometimes called the short internal lateral ligament, does not deserve the name. The interarticular cartilage is a thin, oval plate of fibro-cartilage, concavo- convex from before backward on its upper aspect to fit the temporal surface, and concave below to receive the condyle of the lower jaw. It is thickest behind, and thinnest at the centre, where it is sometimes perforated. By the close attach- ment of its circumference to the capsule the joint is divided into tioo manorial cavities, of which the upper is the larger and looser, and the lower extends lower215 THE TEMPORO-MANDIBVLAR ARTICULATION. down behind than in front. The two sacs communicate when tlie cartilage is perforated. Some fibres of the external pterygoid muscle are inserted into the cartilage in front. The aecessory /if/dmentf; are—(1) the sjjheiuj-mandibular or Ioih/ internal lafcral ligament, a thin band some little distance from the joint, extending from the Fig. 234.—Temporo-mandibnlar articulatiun, o.xtiTiial view. (Testut.) spine of the sphenoid downward and a little forward to the lingula of the man- dible. Separating it from the joint and the ramus are the external pterygoid muscle, the internal maxillary vessels, the inferior dental nerve and vessels, the auriculo-temporal nerve, and the middle meningeal artery. It represents the fibrous remains of a part of Meckel's cartilage. (2) The sti/lo-mandibular liga- ment is a specialized band of the deep cervical fascia extending from near the tip of the styloid process to the angle and the hind border of the ramus of the jaw, between the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles. It separates the submaxillary from the parotid gland. The movements in this joint are—(1) the hinge-motions of elevation, and depression, and (2) the gliding motions of protrusion and re- traction, both («) simple and (h) oblique or grinding. The movements in the two synovial compartments are of different kinds. In the upper there is a protrusion and a reti'action, or a forward and backward gliding, of the carti- lage together with the condyle on the temporal bone, due to the closer connection of the carti- lage with the condyle than with the temporal bone, and to the insertion of the external ptery- goid or protrusor muscle into both cartilage and condyle. In the lower part there is a hinge-motion, on a transverse axis, between the condyle and the cartilage. In opening the month the (1) hinge and (2(0 simple gliding motions are com- bined. When the mouth is opened but slightly (as in talking) there is simply a -lemporo-maudibular articula- tion, mesial view. (Testut.)216 THE ARTICULATIONS. hinge-motion in the lower compartment. When, however, the mouth is opened more and more widely, besides an increased hinge-motion, the cartilage and con- dyle glide forward onto the articular eminence. The condyle does not normally reach the summit of the eminence, l)ut when, as in a convulsive yawn, it glides over the summit, it slips into the zygomatic fossa, and there is a dislocation with rupture of the back of the capsule. As the cartilage and condyle glide forward the external lateral ligament remains always tense on account (1) of the down- wai'd movement onto the eminence, and (2) of the increased hinge-motion which the ligament allows when its obliquity is straightened by the forward movement of the condyle. The point of least motion, or the axis of motion, in the com- bined movement is approximately at the inferior dental foramen, and thus stretch- ing of the nerve is avoided. The combination of hinge and gliding motion gives a tearing; as well as a cutting- action to the incisors. (2a) There may be a simple proinmon and retraction of the lower jaw by a gliding motion in the upper compartment. A slight lowering of the rami occui's as the cartilages and condyles pass downward and forward onto the eminences. (2b) An obliquely horizontal or rotary (jrinditu/ motion is caused by the alternate gliding forward and inward on one side, and backward and inward on the other. The nerves sujjplying the joint are branches of the masseteric and auriculo- temporal. THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 1. The Sterno-clavicular Articulation. (Fig. 236.) The arthrodial joint between the inner end of the clavicle and the superior angle of the manubrium sterni, together with the cartilage of the first rib, is the only point of attachment of the skeleton of the shoulder-girdle and upper limb to that of the trunk. The dissimilar articular surfaces are harmonized by the inteTvemngJibro-cartilage, and are connected together by a fairly tight capsidar ligament, whose fibres pass obliquely upwai'd and outward from the circumference of the sternal to that of the clavicular facet. This cajjsule is strongest behind and in front, where it is called respectively the posterior and anterior sterno-clavic- ular ligaments. Above it is supplemented and strengthened by the dense inter- FiG. 236.—Sterno-costo-clavicular articulation, front view. The right half is seen in coronal section. (Testut.) clavicular ligament which passes between the upper and back parts of the sternal ends of the two clavicles and their capsular ligaments, and dijjs down in the middle to be attached to the hind border of the interclavicular notch of the stei'- num. Below, where the capsule is thinnest, is the strong, dense,-accessory band.217 THE SCAPULO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION. the cosfo-claviothtr or rJioinboid Ugamenf. This is directed obliquely upward, outward, and backward from the front and upper aspect of the iirst costal cartilage to the rhomboid impression on the under surface of the inner end of the clavicle. The inter articular Jihro-carfi/tif/e is a flattened disc of about the same shape and size as the inner articular surface of the clavicle. It is thinnest at the centre and below, thickest above. It is attached above to the upper and dorsal border of the articular surface of the clavicle and below to the inner end of the cartilage of the first rib. By the attachment of its circumference to the inner surface of the capsule the joint is divided into two fiynovial cavities, of which the outer is the looser, and is continued a short distance beneath the clavicle on the first costal cartilage. The two occasionally communicate through a perforation in the centre of the fibro-cartilage. The fibro-cartilages and interclavicular ligament together I'epresent the epi- sternal bone of lizards. Movements.—The clavicle carrying the scapula, to which the coraco-clavicular ligaments closely bind it, may move on its inner end as a centre in an upward and downward direction on a sagittal axis; in a forward and backward direction on a vertical axis; or, by a combination of these, a circumductory motion may be obtained, in which the clavicle describes a cone of which the base is at its outer end. A slight rotation of the clavicle on its long axis is also permitted by which its ventral surface is turned upward as the arm is raised, and vice versa. The fibro-cartilage serves as an elastic buffer to break shocks and resist pressure from the shoulder, as well as to connect the bones and prevent inward displace- ment. The interclavicular and rhomboid ligaments are safeguards against upward displacement of the inner end of the clavicle in depression and elevation of the arm, and the rhomboid ligament also resists backward displacement. When one clavicle is much depressed the interclavicular ligament draws the other one up—a fact to be remembered in fracture of the bone. In forced depi'ession of the clavicle it presses on the first rib, which acts as a fulcrum, so that the inner end is raised and its ligaments are put on the stretch. 2. The Scapulo-clavicular Articulation. The acromio-clavicular joint is an arthrodial articulation between the bevelled outer end of the clavicle and the inner margin of the acromion process, in which the bones are held together by a somewhat lax capsule, which allows some play between the surfaces. The capsule, whose fibres pass from the acro- mion inward and backward, is especially strong above, forming the superior acromio-clavicular ligament, and is here also strengthened by the fascia of the trapezius and deltoid. The inferior part, inferior ligament, is weak, as is also the posterior. The synovial cavity is sometimes partially, rarely completely, divided into two by a small wedge-shaped iiderarticular jihro-cartUoge, attached by its base to the superior ligament, and usually occupying the upper part of the joint only. The coraco-clavicular ligament, which binds the clavicle to the coract)Id process of the scapula, is the strongest connection between the clavicle and scapula, and consists of two parts : (1) The conoid ligament, the dorsal and internal fasciculus, is a strong triangular band attached by its apex to the inner and hind part of the root of the coracoid process, from which its fil)res spread upward, backward, and outward to and about the conoid tubercle of the clavicle. (2) The trapezoid ligament is the flat, quadrilateral, outer and fore part, whose fibres slojie upward, backward, and outward from the upper surface of the dorsal half of the coracoid process to the trapezoid ridge on the under surface of the clavicle. A small bursa often exists between these two ligaments. Movements in the acromiej-clavicular joint may take place on a vcrticcd. axis by which the glenoid cavity is turned farther backward or forward, thus enabling it218 THE ARTICULATIONS. to keep its relative position in forward or backward movement, respectively, of the shoulder-girdle. Or movement may take place on a horizontal axis, by which the glenoid cavity is turned farther upward or downward, as when the arm is raised or lowered. This motion, combined with elevation and depression of the clavicle, is spoken of as rotation of the Hcapida on a dorso-ventral axis passing through its centre or its upper angle. The movements at the acromio-clavicular joint, modifying the relation of the scapula to the clavicle, rarely take place bv themselves, but only in connection with the movements of the sterno-clavicular joint. In the combined movements of the clavicle and scapula the movements of the scapula are restricted by tlie shape of the chest-wall on which it lies, so that its principal movements are upward and forward, and downward and backward. In the above movements the vertebral border and tlic lower angle of the scapula are generally kept in contact with the thorax l)y the muscles attached—a condition allowed only by the acromio-clavicular joint. The conoid ligament suspends the scapula from the clavicle ; the trapezoid is tightened when the shoulder is pressed inward. The Ligaments of the Scapula (Fig. 237).—The coraco-acromial ligament is a flat, triangular band attached by its bi'oad base to the outer border of the coracoid process and by its blunt apex to the tip of the acromion. Binding together the acromion and coracoid processes, it forms an arch over the shoulder-joint which holds off the deltoid, and sujjports and protects the joint. Its ventral and dorsal margins are thick aad strong, leaving a thin membranous j)art between, with often a gap near the coracoid process. The deltoid covers its upper surface, which also looks a little forward ; its lower surface is sej)arated by a bursa from the cajjsule of the shoulder-joint. From its outer edge, which projects over the centre of the head of the humerus, a thin, tough fascia is continued under the deltoid and over the subacromial bursa and the shoulder-joint. The transverse, coraco-seapiUar or suprasraptilar lif/ament, con- tinuing the upper border of the scapula, bridges across the su])rascapular notch, converting it into a foramen, through which the supi'ascapular nerve passes, while the corresponding artery commonly passes above it. It is thin and flat, and is sometimes replaced by bone. The spino-fflenoid ligament comprises a few lax fibres which, by passing between the outer border of the spine and the margin of the glenoid cavity, bridge over the suprascapular vessels and nerves in passing between the supra- and infraspinous fossae. 3. The Shoulder-joint. (Figs. 238-240.) This ball-and-socket joint, between the large humeral head and the smaller, shallow glenoid cavity of the scapula, is one of the most perfect and most movable of joints. The surrounding muscles give strength and security to the joint, and, together with atmospheric pressui-e, hold the bones in position much more than do the ligaments. The glenoid fossa is deepened by the glenoid ligament, tri- angular on section with the base attached around the margin of the fossa. It is comjiosed of fibro-cartilage with scattered cartilage-cells. To its upper end is attached the long tendon of the biceps, which, dividing, is continued into both sides. Outside of this ligament the capsular ligament is attached to the scapula around the glenoid margin, sometimes reaching as far as half an inch from it in front. From this attachment it passes to the anatomical neck of the humerus. At the lower and inner part of the latter it is attached some distance from the Fig. 237.—Glenoid fossa of right side. (Testut.)THE SHO ULDER-JOINT. 219 articular surface, and in front, between the tuberosities, it covers over and is attached to the transverse ligament, thus giving j^assage to the long tendon of the bicejis. The capsule is composed of longitudinal fibres, with some oblique and circular fibres interwoven, and is strongest on its superior aspect. It is so lax Fig. 238.—Shoulder-joint, rear view. The hind part of the capsular ligament and most of the head of the humerus have been removed. (Testut.) that alone it does not keep the bones in contact. Above and behind the tendons of the supras])inatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor, in front that of the sub- scapularis and below the long head of the triceps are intimately connected with and strengthen the capsule. Between the subscapularis and triceps tendons is an Fig. 239.—Shoulder-joint, front view. (Testut.) unprotected and weak part of the capsule, usually torn by the passage of the head in dislocations, to which the shoulder is very liable, owing in part to the looseness of its capsule. Besides the overlying tendons the capsule has two sets of acces- sory folds. (1) The coraco-humeral Ugauient extends as a strong, broad baud from the outer border and root of the coraccjid process, beneath the coraco-acromial liga- ment, obH(piely over the joint to the anatomical neck of the humerus above the great tuberosity, being intimately connected with the capsule. Seen from in front, it appears as a fan-shaped process lying over and above the capsule, with which itTHE ARTICULATIONS. 220 appears continuous as viewed from behind. This ligament represents a detached part of the pectoralis minor tendon. (2) The fjhno-huriieml hands, three in num- ber, extend between the ventral margin of the glenoid fossa and the neck of the humerus. They are seen projecting on the interior of the inner and fore part of the capsule when the joint is opened from behind. The superioi- gleno-Jmmeral band extends between the upper end of the ventral margin of the glenoid cavity and the ujji^r end of the small tuberosity of the humerus, forming a slight groove, directed backward, for the inner edge of the biceps tendon. It may occasionally be quite free from the capsule, and it lies above the opening by which the bursa beneath the scubscapularis tendon communicates with the synovial Fig. 240.—Shoulder-joint in coronal section, front view. The synovial sac is distended. (Testut.) cavity of the joint. The middle gleno-humeral band lies below this opening, along the lower border of the subscapularis, arises from the glenoid margin with the superior band, and is attached to the inner side of the small tuberosity of the humerus. The inferior gleno-hmneral hand is the strongest, and passes between the middle ])art of the ventral border of the glenoid rim and the lower part of the neck of the humerus. The superior gleno-humeral band represents the divorced tendon of the subclavius muscle as seen in birds, and corresponds to the ligamentum teres in the hip. The transverse ligamenf, by its fibres passing transversely between the tuber- osities, forms a canal of that part of the bici])ital groove which belongs to the ejjiphysis. The capsular ligament is attached to it superficially. The synovial membrane lines both free surfaces of the glenoid ligament, and is thence reflected over the inner surface of the caj)su]e to the humeral neck, where in front it passes down the bicipital canal for a distance, and there is reflected onto the biceps tendon, which it sheathes, as it passes through the joint, as far its attachment to the glenoid ligament. Between the superior and middle gleno-humeral bands there is usually an opening where the synovial membrane is continuous with that lining the bursa beneath the subsca])ularis tendon. It occasionally communicates with a bursa beneath the infraspinatus muscle. The articular cartilage is thicker near the centre of the head on the humerus and at the margins of the gl(>noid fossa, thus deepening it. Nerves from the su])rascapular, circumflex, and subscapular supjfly the joint. Movements.—Flexion and extension, abduction and adduction, circumduction and rotation are allowed to a degree determined by the extent of the humeral articular surface, the length of the capsule, and the resistance of the overlying parts. Flexion and extension, or the movements forward and slightly inward, and backward and slightly outward, take place on an axis corresponding to that of the head and neck of the liumerus, which is nearly perpendicular to tlie centre of the glenoid cavity. Flexion is much more free than extension, and between221 THE ELBOW-JOINT. the extremes of both there is about 90° of motion. In abduction and adduction the arm moves away from or toward the body, respectively, on a horizontal axis at right angles with that last named, and parallel to the surface of the glenoid fossa. Rotation occurs in an outward (or backward) and in an inward (or fur- ward) direction on an axis drawn from the centre of the head to the inner con- dyle of the humerus, and over a range of between 90° and 100°. In extreme abduction ( i. e., to about 90°) or extension the great tuberosity strikes against the coraco-acromial ligament and the acromion process, and further motion is thus limited. In exti'cme abduction the lower part of the capsule is tense. In out- ward rotation the coraco-humeral ligament is made tense, and in both inward and outward rotation the upper part of the capsule is tightened by twisting. Otherwise, the muscles rather than the ligaments restrain the movements. The great freedom of motion at the shoulder, by which the arm can be raised so as to be nearly vertical, is in part due to the movement of the scapula, which always accompanies movements at the shoulder-joint. Both abduction and flexion over 90° are due to rotation of the scapula, by which the glenoid cavity is turned out- ward and upward, or forward and upward. In dislocation the coraco-humeral ligament is thought to be important in determining the position of the dislocated limb and the manipulation for its reduction. The subacromial bursa lies between the joint-capsule, with its attached ten- dons, and the arch formed by the coracoid and acromion processes and the coraco- acromial ligament, and it also extends beneath the deltoid muscle. It facilitates the movements of the upper end of the humerus. The coraco-acromial arch forms a sort of secondary socket, against which the head and tuberosities of the humerus are pressed when the weight of the body is supported by the arms. The biceps tendon acts as a ligament of the joint, preventing the humerus from being pulled up forcibly against the acromion, and keeping the head in the glenoid socket, especially Avhen the arm is away from the side of the body and is pulled down by the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi muscles. 4. The Elbow-joint (Figs. 241-243). This is a true hinge-joint between the trochlear surface of the humerus and the great sigmoid cavity of the ulna. It is broadened, and thereby secured against Fig. 241.—Elbow-joint, mesial view. (I'Mii ar.) lateral motion or displacement, by the articulation of the upjier end of the radius with the capitellum of the humerus. To the shape of the bones is due the strength and security of the joint. Beneath the surrounding muscles and ten-222 THE ABTICULA TIONS. dons, which further strengthen the joint, lies the fibrons capsule, reinforced inter- nally and externally, and therefore described in four parts. The triangular internal lateral ligament is attache d by its apex to the lower aspect of the internal condyle, and by its base to the inner margin of the coronoid and olecranon processes. It is divided into two smaller triangles, ventral and dorsal, by an intermediate thinner part attached to the meeting-point of these two processes. This ligament is the strongest part of the capsule. The external lateral ligament, shorter and narrower than the internal, radiates from its upper attachment on the lower part of the external condyle to the outer side of the orl)icular ligament. A few fibres reach the neck of the radius. The anterior ligament is the thin, fore part of the capsule between the lateral ligaments. Superiorly it is attached above the coronoid and radial depressions, and includes them within the joint; inferiorly it is attached, just beyond the articular margin, to the front of the coronoid process and to the orbicular ligament, some fibres passing to the neck of the radius. It is reinforced by the adhesion of some of the fibres of the brachialis, which draAVs it up in flexion and prevents it from being nipped between the bony margins. The posterior ligament is thin and weak, like the anterior. By its at- tachment above and at the sides of the olecranon fossa it includes the latter within the joint. Its ujiper fibres 2)ass transversely across the fossa. Inferiorly it is attached to the olecranon process, near the upper and outer margins of the great sig- moid cavity, to the orbicular liga- ment, and to the ulna behind the small sigmoid cavity. It is strengthened by the adhesion of the triceps, Avhich draws it up during extension. The synovial membrane lines the inner surface of the capsule, and thence passes onto the humerus, where it lines the olecranon, coronoid, and radial fossae, and extends to the articular cartilage. Projecting into the above fossae are masses of fat placed between the ^capsule and the synovial membrane. Inferiorly the membrane extends into the superior radio-ulnar joint, Avhere it lines the orbicular ligament, thence passing onto and around the neck of the radius, and so up to its articular cartilage. A fold of synovial membrane, projecting into the joint from in front o])posite the outer lip of the trochlea, suggests the division of the joint into two parts. The nerve-supply is mainly from the musculo-cutaneous, with a few filaments from the musculo-spiral, median, and idna. Movements arc confined to flexion and extension on an axis obliquely placed at an angle of about 84° with the shaft of the humerus, so that in extension the forearm is inclined outward and in flexion inward. Flexion occurs through 140°, and is limited by the contact of the soft parts ; extension is limited, when the ulna and humerus are nearly in line, by the tension of the soft j^ai'ts and ligaments in front, and of the ventral jiortions of the lateral ligaments. The olecranon and coronoid processes do not arrest normal but only forced motion, by contact with the bottoms of their respective fossse. The head of the radius moves on the capitellum, and is in most complete contact with it in semiflexion, in which posi- tion it rotates best on the humerus in pronation and supination. Except pos- sibly to a very limited extent, owing to the slight incongruence of the surfaces, lateral motion is prevented by the lateral ligaments and the shape of the bones. Fig. 242.—Elbow-joint, outer side. (Testnt.)223 BA DIG-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS AND LIGAMENTS. When the elbow is extended the tip of the olecranon lies on or just beloAv a line connecting the two condyles: when flexed to a right angle it lies a little more than one inch below, and midway between these two points. 5. Radio-ulnar Articulations and Ligaments. Two joints and an intermediate fibrous union connect the ulna and radius firmly together. (A) The Superior Radio-ulnar Articulation.—The rim of the head of the radius is held in contact with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna by the strong encircling orbicular lig- ament. This forms four-fifths of a circle and is attached to the ventral and dorsal lips of the small sigmoid cavity, which completes the ring. It forms part of the capsule of the elbow-joint, and inserted into it are the external and parts of the ventral and dorsal portions of this capsule. Its lower border tightly girdles the neck of the radius. From this border membranous fibres pass to the neck of the radius loosely enough to allow of rotation of the radius on its long axis. It is lined by synovial membrane continuous with that of the elbow-joint. (B) The middle radio-ulnar union is accom- plished by two ligaments. (1) The obl!qn.e lig- ament is a flattened Ijand, which passes obliquely downward and outward from the lower and outer part of the tuberosity of the ulna, at the base of the coronoid process, to the radius, directly below and behind the bicipital tuberosity. Below this ligament is a space through which the posterior interosseous vessels pass, and which is bounded below by the strong (2) interosseous membrane. The fibres of the latter pass mostly obliquely downward and inward from the interosseous border of the radius, commencing about one inch below the tuberosity, to the whole length of the interosseous border of the ulna. A few fibres on its dorsal surface are parallel with the oblique ligament, decussating with the other fibres. The interosseous space is widest in the michllo third, and is wider in supination than in ]ir(ination. (C) The inferior radio-ulnar articulation, between the sigmoid cavity of the radius and the lower end of the ulna, is separated from the wrist-joint by the triangular fibro-cartilage. This thick plate is the most important structure in this joint, not only as the strongest bond of union between the two bones, but also in limiting their movements. It is attached by its base to the margin of the radius, which separates the sigmoid cavity from the carpal facet, and by its apex to the fossa at the base of the styloid process of the ulna externally. This liga- ment separates the lower end of the ulna, which rests on its upper smooth, concave surface, from the cuneiform bone of the carpus. Some scattered fibres from the two ends of the sigmoid cavity of the radius pass to the ventral and dorsal sur- faces of the lower end of the ulna above its articular surface. They are called anterior and 'posterior radio-ulnar ligaments, and are connected with the borders of the fibro-cartilage inferiorly, and with the interosseous membrane superiorly, thus completing the capsule. Lining the capsule is the synovial membrane, which Fig. 243.—Elbow-joint in sagittal sec- tion, showing the articular synovial sac and the bursEe of the olecranon and the biceps. (Testut.)224 THE ARTICULATIONS. is remarkably loose. Besides extending upward between the radius and ulna, it lines the upper surface of the fibro-cartilage beneath the latter. The nerve-mpply comes from the anterior and posterior interosseous nerves. Ilovements.—The upper end of the radius rotates on a longitudinal axis passing through its head and neck, while the lower end rotates around the head of the ulna, having the attachment of the apex of the fibro-cartilage as its centre (Fig. 244). The entire bone thus describes rather less than 180° of a cone, with its apex above and its base below, its axis extending from the centre of the radial head to the outer side of the styloid process of the ulna. In these movements the radius carries the hand. The forearm is said to be supin- ated when its two bones lie nearly parallel and the dorsum of the hand looks backward, and pronated when the radius lies obliquely across the ulna, and the palm of the hand looks backward. The ])ower of supination is much greater than that of pronation. In the above movements the ulna is thought by many to undergo slight circumduction. This implies a little lateral movement at the elbow, which, if it occurs at all, must be very trifling and due to a slight incongruence of the surfaces. Supination and pronation with a straight arm are apparently much increased by the rotation of the humerus at the shoulder. The interosseous membrane, from the direc- tion of its fibres, transmits the weight of the body from the ulna to the radius or the shock of a fall on the' hands from the radius to the ulna. 6. The Wrist-joint or Radio-carpal Articulation (Figs. Fig. 244. —Mechan- 245, 246). ism of pronation and supination. (Testut.) ^he lower end of the radius and of the triangular fibro- cartilage presents a surface slightly concave transversely, as well as from before backward, which receives the correspondingly convex upper articular surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones. The latter surfaces are prolonged farther upon the dorsal than upon the palmar aspect. The ulna is excluded from the joint by the triangular cartilage ; and the pisiform bone of the first row does not enter into the articulation. The joint is condyloid in action. The rather loose capsule is described as four ligaments, which are, however, continuous. The internal lateral ligament is attached above as a rounded cord to the styloid process of the ulna, and spreads out below onto the cuneiform and pisiform bones. The external lateral ligament radiates from the summit of the radial styloid jirocess onto the outer, back, and front surfaces of the sca]ihoid, some fibres being continued to the trapezium and os magnum. It is in relation with the radial artery and the extensor tendons of the thumb. The anterior ligament is broad, strong, and membranous. Its fibres pass for the most part obliquely from the anterior border of the lower end of the radius downward and inward to the palmar aspect of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones, especially the latter. Some fibres pass over to the os magnum. Another group of fibres passes more vertically from the ulnar styloid process to the semilunar and cuneiform bones. The posterior ligament, thinner and less strong than the anterior, is strengthened by the extensor tendons in relation with it. Its fibres also pass for the most part obliquely downward and inward from the dorsal border of the lower end of the radius to the first row of carpal bones, especially to the cuneiform bone. The synovial membrane lines the capsule between the articular surfaces.225 THE CARPAL ARTICULATIONS. 7. The Carpal Articulations. The bones of each of the two rows of the carpus, exclusive of the pisiform, are connected together by dorsal, ixdmar, and interosseous ligaments, passing nearly transversely between adjacent bones. The palmar are stronger than the dorsal ligaments. The joint between the pisiform and cuneiform bones is arthrodial, and has a thin, Fig. 245.—The articulations of the carpus. The synovial sacs are represented as distended. (Testut.) loose capsule lined by synovicd membrane and strengthened by a fibrous band passing to the hook of the unciform, by another passing to the base of the fifth metacarpal, and by the insertion of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris from above. The Medio-carpal or Transverse Carpal Articulation.—This joint is between the lower aspect of the fii'st carpal row, which is concave except for the convex outer part of the scaphoid, and the upper surface of the second carpal row, con- cavo-convex from without inward. It is united by dorsal and pcdmar, internal and external lateral ligaments. The latercd ligaments, prolonged from the lateral ligaments of the wrist-joint, connect the lateral surfaces of the outer and inner bones of the two rows. The dorsal ligaments extend obliquely between the dorsal surfaces of the bones of the two rows. The stronger palmar ligaments are com- posed of fibres which for the most part radiate from the os magnum to the bones of the upper row. The synovial membrane is extensive. From the medio-carpal joint it sends two processes upward between the three bones of the ujiper row (exclusive of the pisiform); and between the four bones of the lower row it sends three pi'ocesses downward, which are continued into the four inner carpo-metacarpal and the three intermetacarpal articulations. It is nearly always separated from that of the wrist by the interosseous ligaments between the bones of the upper row, which make their convex upper surfaces uniformly even. The nerve-supply of the radio-carpal and carpal joints is from the ulna and median in front and the posterior interosseous behind. 15THE ARTICULATIONS. 226 8. The Carpo-metacarpal and Intermetacarpal Articulations. The proximal ends of the inner four metacarpal bones are united to the inner three bones of the lower row of the carpus by dorsal and ]mlmar ligaments. Of the dorsal ligaments the second and third metacarpals receive two or three each, the fourth two, and the fifth one. The latter is continuous internally with the palmar ligament, forming a 2>artial capsule between the unciform and the fifth metacarpal, open externally. The palmar ligaments are weaker and less defined; Fig. 216.—Ligaments of the carpus, front view. (Testut.) the third metacarpal receives three, the others one each. An interosseous liga- ment also connects the contiguous lower angles of the os magnum and the unciform with the adjacent surfaces of the third and fourth metacarpals, occasionally shut- ting otf the synovial sac between the inner two metacarpals and the unciform from the common synovial sac, which is continuous witli that of the carpal joints. A strong band from the trapezium to the outer aspect of the base of the second metacarpal helps to close the radial side of the joint of the latter. The bases of the inner four metacarpal bones are bound together by transverse, palmar, dorsal and interosseous ligaments. Their distal ends are united by trans- verse fibres passing between the margins of the palmar or glenoid ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, and forming the transverse metacarpal ligament, which limits the separation of the metacarpal bones. The first metacarpal bone is free from the others at both ends. In the ccrrpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb there is a thick, loose capsule, strongest dor.sally and externally, which connects the margins of the articular surfaces of the trapezium and the first metacarpal. It is lined by a separate synovicd membrane. Movements of a similar nature occur in the radio-carpal and medio-carpcd joints. These movements are flexion and extension, abduction and adduction, and circumduction. Extension is more free than flexion in the radio-carpal joint, owing to the greater extent of the carpal articular surfaces dorsally than ventrally ; but flexion is more free than extension at the medio-carpal and carpo-metacarpal joints, and it is the more free of the two motions in the wrist as a whole. Abduction and adduction, on an antero-posterior axis, occur principally at the radio-carpal joint. Adduction is much the more free, for the ulna does not extend as low as the radius, and does not help the external lateral ligament to check adduction as the radius does the internal lateral ligament to check abduction. The lack of rota- tion in the wrist is compensated for by the pronation and supination of the fore-227 THE ARTICULATIOXS OF THE PELVIS. arm, in which the hand rotates with the radius. In the medio-carpal joint, besides very free flexion, moderately free extension, and slight lateral motion, there is very limited rotation of the head of the os magnum and tlie unciform in the socket formed by the upper row, while the trapezium and trapezoid glide back and forth on the scaphoid. In the central carpo-metacarpal joints flexion and extension are slight. The fifth metacarpal is capable of more flexion than are the second, third, and fourth, and this flexion is directed outward as well as forward, producing opposition, or narrowing and hollowing of the hand, as in the closed fist. The movements of the first metacarpal are regulated principallv by the saddle-shape of the surfaces, and consist of flexion and extension, abduction and adduction, and circumduction. Flexion is most free, and occurs obliquelv forward and inward, thus allowing the opposing of the thumb to anv of the fingers. Abduction is also very free, adduction less so. Movements between bones of the same row in the carpus are limited to slight gliding, which gives elasticity to the carpus, breaks jars and shocks, and thus strengthens the Avrist. 9. Metacarpo-phalangeal and Interphalangeal Articulations. The cup-shaped bases of the proximal plialauges receive the rounded heads of the metacarpal bones to form a condyloid joint whose capsule is verv weak behind, where the joint is covered by the expansion of the extensor tendons, but is reinforced laterally in front. The strong lateral ligaments are attached to the lateral tubercles and the depressions in front of them on the heads of the meta- carpal bones, and pass downward and forward to the lateral margins of the bases of the phalanges and to the palmar or glenoid ligaments. The anterior, palmar, or glenoid ligament is a thick fibro-cartilaginous plate, attached closely to the phalanx, loosely to the metacarpal. It is continuous laterally with the lateral ligaments and the transverse metacarpal ligament. Its palmar surface is slightlv grooved for the flexor tendons, the sheaths of which are attached to its margins. Its dorsal surface helps to support the head of the metacarpal bone. In the thumb (and occasionally elsewhere) the fibro-cartilage ossifies into two sesamoid bones, receiving the insertion of the short muscles and forming a groove for the long flexor muscle. The inter phalangeal articulations are in every way similar, except for slight differences in the shape of the articular surfaces, which influence the action. A synovial membrane lines the inner surface of the connecting ligaments of each joint. Movements.—In the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the thumb motion is limited to flexion and extension, owino- to the width of the surfaces. In the four other fingers abduction and adduction, in relation to the middle finger as the axis, are also quite free in the extended position. Flexion is the freest movement, owing to the greater extent of the articular facet in front and to the forward obliquity of the lateral ligaments. Flexion to a right angle and extension to a little beyond a straight line are permitted. Although abduction and adduction may occur separately, flexion ancl adduction and extension and abduction are associated together. The movements in the interphalangeal joints are limited to flexion and extension. Flexion is the more free for the same reason as above given, and in the proximal joint it exceeds a right angle; in the distal joint it may be rather less. The greater freedom of the thumb is due to the motion in the carpo-metacarpal rather than in the lower joints. THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS (Figs. 247, 248V The Articulations of the Pelvis with the Last Lumbar Vertebra. The fifth lumbar is imited to the first sacral vertebra by such joints and ligaments as are found between the vertebrae above, with the addition of two special accessory ligaments on each side, as follows : The lumbosacral ligament isTHE ARTICULATIONS. 228 a strong, triangular band, with its apex above and internally, where it is attached to the lower and front part of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra, from which it radiates downward and outward to the lateral surface of the base of the sacrum, blending with the anterior sacro-iliac ligament. The ilio-lum- bar ligament also is a strong triangular band, which passes from the apex of the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra outward and somewhat backward, expanding to its attachment along the dorsal two inches of the inner lip of the iliac crest. It represents the thickened lower edge of the ventral layer of the lumbar fascia covering the quadratus lumborum, and gives origin to that muscle. It also helps to complete the dorsal boundary of the false pelvis. The Sacro-coccygeal and Intercoccygeal Articulations. The sacrum is united to the coccyx by an oval intervertehral disc, by an anterior and a stronger 'posterior saero-eoccygeal ligament, the continuations of the anterior and posterior common ligaments of the vertebi'te; and by lateral liga- ments passing between the cornua of the two bones, and between the transverse processes of the first coccygeal vertebra and the lateral angles of the sacrum. The ligaments connecting the cornua of the two bones are sometimes called inter- artieular, as the cornua represent articular processes ; but the ligament is prob- ably the continuation of the supraspinous ligament, which roofs over the lower end of the spinal canal. The several pieces of the coccyx are held together by the continuation of the anterior and posterior ligaments described above. Small discs of fibro-cartilage also connect them as long as they remain separate bones. The Sacro-iliac Joint. This is a synchondrosis in which the cartilage-clad auricular surfaces of the sacrum and ilium are bound together by a thin stratum of softer fibro-cartilage, which may contain a synovial-like cavity. In some cases also interosseous fibrous tissue partly binds the surfaces together, especially near the dorsal superior border, behind and above which the short transverse fibres of the deej) part of the posterior sacro-iliac ligament sometimes receive the name of interosseous ligament. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of a thin layer of fibres covering the front or pelvic surface of the joint, between the pelvic brim and the great sacro-sciatic notch. The posterior sacro-iliac ligament is very strong. The deeper bundles of fibres pass inward and slightly downward from the rough area above and behind the auricular surface of the ilium to the back of the lateral mass of the sacrum. A more dorsal or superficial band, sometimes called the long or oblique sacro-iliac ligament, passes from the back of the posterior superior iliac spine downward and slightly inward to the back of the third sacral vertebra. The cartilage connecting the auricular surfaces of this joint tears away, as one mass, from one or the other surface when the bones are forcibly separated. The sacro-sciatic ligaments also help to support this joint. The great or posterior sacro-sciafie ligament is thin and flat at its attached ends, narrower and thicker in the centre, which thus divides it into two triangles, of which the broader is attached to the posterior inferior iliac spine and the sides of the sacrum and coccyx, and the narrower to the inner margin of the ischial t iQ. 247.—sacro-iiiac jomr, cui in a plane parallel to that of the superior strait through the second sacral vertebra. (Testut.)229 THE SYMPHYSIS PUBIS. tuberosity, sending its falciform process along the inner margin of the ischial ramus. The free, sliarp edge of the fixlciform process is continuous with tlie poste- rior border of the ligament and witli the obturator fascia. Some fibres pass over the tuberosity into the tendon of the biceps, of which this ligament represents the proximal continuation. The direction of this ligament is from above downward, outward, and slightly forward. It assists in l^ounding the pelvic outlet and the perineum laterally, and between it and the hip-bone is a large space subdivided by the suiall or anterior sacro-sciatie ligament into the great sacro-sciatic foramen Fig. 248.—Articulations of the pelvis, rear view. (Testiit.) above and the small sacro-sciatic foramen below. This ligament lies in front of the preceding, and is triangular in form, its wide base attached to the side of the sacrum and coccyx, its apex to the ischial spine. Its deep surface is closely con- nected with the coccygeus muscle, of which it represents the thickened sheath. Thi'ough the great sacro-sciatic foramen pass the pyriformis muscle, and a!)ove the muscle the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve, below tlie muscle the sciatic and interna] pudic vessels and nerves, the inferior gluteal nerve, and the nerves to the obturator internus and quadratus femoris muscles. Tiie small sacro-sciatic foramen is the smaller space below the small .sciatic ligament. It is bounded behind by the gi'eat sacro-sciatic ligament and in front by the smooth cartilage- clad surface between the ischial spine and tuberosity, over which passes the obtu- rator internus muscle. The internal pudic vessels and nerve and the nerve to the obturator internus pass in through this foramen. The Symphysis Pubis. The opposed median surfaces of the pubic bones are each covered with a thin layer of hyaline cartilage, united into a single interpubie disc hy an interposed layer of fibro-cartilage. The latter is broader in front and below, and bulges especially behind. It is attached to the surrounding ligaments on all sides, and often contains a cleft. This cleft or cavity is usually nearer the upper and back part, does not reach the surface, is not lined by synovial membrane, and is larger in the female, though not greatly affected by pregnancy. A fibrous capsule sur- rounds the joint, which is further strengthened by tendinous attachments. Tlie superior and posterior ligaments are but slightly marked transverse fibres strength-230 THE ARTICULATIONS. ening the periosteum. The anterior ligament is stronger, and consists of deep transverse filjres and superficial olilique, decussating fibres connected with the tendons of the muscles arising from tlie body of the os pubis. The inferior or ,s»6- pubic ligament is a thick trianguhir mass of transverse and curved fibres, round- ing off the subpubic angle of the pubic rami, wliich forms the ventral angle of the pelvic outlet. Movements, 3leehanism, etc.-—Owing to the thickness of the disc between the fifth lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, movements are more free here than between any two lumbar vertebrje, and especially flexion and extension, which occur in sitting or in rising from the sitting posture. The inclination of the pelvis depends partly upon the sacro-vertebral angle between the sacrum and the spine, but also, and in great jjart, on the obliquity of the hip-bones to the sacrum at the sacro-iliac joint. At the sacro-iliac joint there is no movement: it merely serves to break shocks. In the erect position the base of the sacral wedge is directed so largely forward, and the ventral or broader surface of the sacrum is directed so largely downward, that the sacrum is not held in place by virtue of its wedge shape, but is suspended from the ilia by the very strong posterior sacro-iliac liga- ments in such a way that the greater the j^ressure the tighter is the union. The tendency to rotation of the sacrum, due to the M'cight of the spine transmitted to its forward projecting base, is resisted above by the ilio-lumbar and below by the sacro-sciatic ligaments (the former directed backward, the latter forward from the sacrum). At the pubic symphysis there is only a slight yielding of the cartilage, which may occur at childbirth, when the cartilage is softer and more vascular ; but the decussating tendinous fibres of the abdominal muscles, which cross it in front, would tend to brace the bones more tightly together by their contraction during labor. The sacro-coccygeal joint allows of flexion and extension. In defecation and parturition the coccyx is pushed backward. This joint may be ankylosed in adult life, but less often in females than in males, and its mobility seems to increase during pregnancy. THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 1. The Hip-joint (Figs. 249-251). In this typical ball-and-socket joint the round head of the femur is received into the acetabulum of the liip-bone. The cartilage-clad surface of the acetabulum is horseshoe-shaped, broader above and behind, and deficient below at the coty- loid notch and in the depression at the bottom of the acetabulum, which is occu- pied by a mass of fat covered by synovial membrane—the so-called synovial (Haversian) gland. The articular cartilage of the head of the femur is thicker above, where it bears the weight of the body, and is only wanting a little behind and below the centre at the depression for the ligamentum teres. The acetabular rim is completed below by the transverse and decussating fibres of the transverse ligament, which bridges over the cotyloid notch, and converts it into a foramen through which articular vessels pass. This ligament blends with and helps to support the eoti/loid ligament, a thick fibro-cartilage, triangular on section, firmly attached bv a broad base to the rim of the acetabulum, Avhich it deepens to more than a hemisphere. Its concave inner surface and thin free margin tightly em- brace the head of the femur a little beyond its greatest circumference and, aided by atmospheric pressure, hold it in place when its ligaments are divided. Its fibres pass obliquely from Avithout inward, and its outer convex surface is in con- tact with the capsular ligament. It is covered on both sides by synovial mem- brane. The capsular ligcvmcnt is one of the strongest in the body. Surrounding the joint, it is attached to the pelvis at or near the rim of the acetabulum, outside of the cotyloid ligament, and to the transverse ligament. On the femur it is attached in front to the anterior intertrochanteric line, from the tubei'cle above to231 THE HIP-JOINT. the level of the lower part of the small trochanter below ; I)ehind and below, to the neck, one-half to two-thirds of an inch internal to the posterior intertro- chanteric line ; and above, at the base of the great trochanter, internal to the digital fossa. The innermost capsular fibres are reflected upon the neck of the femur toward the articular margin, blending with the periosteum and foi-ming three flat bands or retinacula, one behind and one at either end of the anterior intertrochanteric line. The capsule is somewhat loose, and its fibres run longitu- dinally with some circular fibres interwoven. The circular fibres are found most abundantly behind and below, where they form a band arching around the neck of tlie femur. The longitudinal fibres are much thickened in jjarts by accessory bands, inse2)arable from the capsule, which greatly strengthen the joint. Many of these bands are derived from the fascial sheaths of the surrounding muscles, which are—in front, the ilio-psoas, partly separated from the capsule by a bursa ; internally, the pectineus; below and behind, the obturator externus; behind, the Fig. 249.—Hip-joint in coronal section. (Testut.) obturator internus with the two gemelli and the ]3yriformis ; above or externally, the rectus femoris and the gluteus minimus. The obturator internus acts like a powerful strap at the back of the joint. Of the three principal accessory bands, the ilio-femoral band is the strongest and most important. Superiorly attached to the ilium, below and behind the anterior inferior spine, it spreads out triangularly to the anterior intertrochanteric line of the femur. Its inner and outer borders form two very strong bands, between which the capsule is thinner, so as sometimes to suggest the name of the inverted Y-ligament given it by Bigelow. Tliis ligament is rarely torn, and forms the fulcrum for the manipulaticm in reducing dislocations of the thigh. The outer or upper part of this band, passing to the upper end of the anterior border of the great trochanter, is sometimes described as the ilio-trochanferic ligament. The puho-femoral band is the weakest, and passes from between the pectineal eminence and the cotyloid notch to the neck of the femur, above and behind the232 THE ARTICULATIONS. inner band of the ilio-femoral ligament. It is derived from the foscia between the pectineus and the obtnrator externns. The capsule is thinnest between this and the ilio-femoral band, where it is perforated by an opening between the synovial cavity and the bursa beneath the psoas. The isclno-femoral band con- sists of strong fibres from the ischium just below the acetabulum, which curve upward and outward to the base of the great trochanter internal to the digital fossa. In flexion of the thigh they pass almost straight to their femoral attach- ment. The capsule is weak dorsally below this band, where it usually tears in dislocation. Between this and the ilio-femoral band superiorly the capsule is strong, and is further strengthened by bands from the gluteus minimus and from the reflected tendon of the rectus. From the latter the tendino-trochanteric band passes to the upper end of the vastus externns muscle. Fig. 2d0.—Hip-joiut, front view. The cavity is distended artificially. (Testut.) The ligamentum teres (round ligament) is not round, but a triangular, flat interarticular band attached by its apex to the upper half of the depression on the head of the femur, and by its base to the transverse ligament and the margins of the cotyloid notch, the ischial portion being the stronger. It is surrounded by synovial meml)rane, and represents a migrated portion of the pectineus muscle. It conveys a small branch of the obturator artery to the head of the femur. It is torn in dislocation of the femur. The synovial membrane lines the inner sui'face of the capsule, from which it is reflected onto the neck of the femur as far as the articular margin, and onto the two free surfaces of the cotyloid ligament, thence being continued to the pad of fat at the bottom of the acetabulum, and as a tubular covering of tlie liga- mentum teres. Nerves.—The obtnrator, accessory obturator, anterior crural, and great sciatic, or the sacral plexus, supply the joint. Movemerds.—All the movements of a ball-and-socket joint are permitted. The obliquity of the neck of the femur allows flexion and extension to take place by a rotation of the head without its cartilage-clad surface leaving the233 THE KNEE-JOINT. socket, thus securing strength for these, the most important movements. Exten- sion is limited by the strong ilio-femoral band, which helps to maintain the ei-ect position without muscular exertion by preventing over-extension in standing, in which position the centre of gravity descends behind the centre of the joint. Flexion takes place through about 140°, until checked by the contact of the "thigh and abdomen if the knee is flexed ; otherwise, it is checked at about 90° by Fig. 251.—Hip-joint, front view. Tlie capsular ligament has been largely removed. (Testut.) the hamstring muscles. In all the other movements the articular portion of the head projects beyond the cotyloid rim on the side opposite to that toward which the movement takes place. Abduction is limited by the pubo-femoral band, adduction by the outer part of the ilio-femoral band and the upper part of the capsule. Rotation takes place on a vertical axis passing from the head above to the lower extremity of the femur below. (This axis is not coincident with that of the shaft.) Inward rotation is limited by the ischio-femoral band, outwai'd rotation by the ilio-femoral band (its inner part during extension, its outer during flexion). The ligamentum teres is put on the stretch in flexion with abduction or outward rotation, or both, but it is too weak to be of use in resisting these movements or in strengthening the joint. 2. The Knee-joint (Figs. 252-255). This, the largest joint in the body, is a modified hinge-joint, whose bony articu- lar surfaces (the condyles and trochlear surface of the femur, the tuberosities of the tibia and the patella) are not adapted to one another except by means of soft ])arts and the interposed fibro-cartilages. The knee is very superficial, and is strong only by reason of the number and strength of the ligaments and surrounding tendons and muscles, which, as well as the width of the bony surfaces, resist dislocation in spite of the leverage of the longest two bones in the body. It represents two morphologically distinct joints, the patello-femoral and the tibio- femoral, the latter also composed of two laterally placed joints, the median division between which is represented by the crucial and mucous ligaments. The synovial234 THE A BTICULA TIONS. membrane of these joints has blended into one. The fihroits capsule of the knee is strengthened in places by strong bands derived from the surrounding tendons, closely adherent to its outer surface, and known as the external (superficial) set of ligaments. 1. The internal lateral ligament is a long, flat, strong band which extends from the internal tuberosity of the femur (close to the adductor magnus ten- don, of which it was originally a con- tinuation) to the inner surface and border of the tibia, descending below the level of the tubercle. Blended above and internally with the fibro- cartilage and capsule, it is separated from the latter below, and bridges over part of the semimembranosus tendon and the inferior internal ar- ticular vessels. Superficially, it is separated l)y a bursa from the ten- dons of the sartorius, gracilis, and sernitendinosus. 2. The external lateral ligament extends downward and slightly back- ward as a rounded cord from the ex- ternal tuberosity of the femur to the middle of the outer surface of the head of the fibula. It crosses super- ficially over the popliteus tendon and the external inferior articular vessels, and is separated by a bursa from the biceps tendon, which splits to em- brace it. It is continuous below with the origin of the peroneus Ion- femoral origin. A little behind this and defined sho)i or posterior external ANTERIOR CRU- CIAL LIGAMENT POSTERIOR CRU- CIAL LIGAMENT Fig. 252.—Knee-joint in sagittal section. (Testut.) gus, of which it represents the detached ligament is the broader but less constant lateral ligament, which extends from the external condyle of the femur, in con nection "with the external gastrocnemius tendon, to the styloid process of the fibula. It blends with, and is really a portion of, the posterior ligament. Both internal and external lateral ligaments are situated behind the centre of the joint. 3. The posterior ligament proper is a strong flat band which ascends obliquely upward and outAvard as an expansion from the semimembranosus tendon, from the back of the inner tuberosity of the tibia, to the external condyle of the femur, joining the outer head of the gastrocnemius. The rest of the so-called posterior ligament underlies this oblique portion, and is a part of the capsule which occupies the interval between the lateral ligaments behind. It is a broad membrane com- posed of nearly vertical bundles of fibres, which pass from the upper margins of the intercondylar notch and of the articular surfaces of the femur to the dorsal margin of the head of the tibia. 4. The ligamentum patellce is the strong, flat infrapatellar tendon of the quadri- ceps extensor, extending from the apex and lower border of the patella to the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia (where it descends lower on the outer side). A synovial bursa separates the ligament from the upper part of the tubercle, above which a mass of fat separates it from the synovial membrane. 5. The capsular ligament is seen only in the intervals between the above liga- ments. Behind it is thickened to form most of the posterior ligament, in front it is wanting beneath the patella and its tendons, between which and the lateral ligaments it is strengthened by the fascia lata and the lateral fibrous ex])ansions of the quadriceps extensor tendon. These expansions, passing down from the vastiTHE KNEE-JOINT. 235 muscles, are attached to the sides of the patella ^ and the ligamentiim patellse, and to the tibia along the oblique lines extending from the tuljercle to tlie inner and outer tuberosities. They reach as far as the lateral ligaments. Externally, tlie ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata, attached to the external one of the above oblique lines, adds largely to the strength of the capsule. The capsule is therefore made up of two or thi-ee layers, and between the deeper layer, or the capsular mem- FiG. 253.—Knee-joint, front view. Part of the lia-aments have been removed on the right side. (Testut.) brane proper, and the outer layers there often exists a thin layer of fatty tissue. The cap.sular membrane is attached to the femur and tibia not f;ir from their articular margins, and is adherent to the semilunar cartilages. Of the so-called internal (deep) set of ligaments, most may be well seen by dividing the quadriceps tendon above the patella, continuing the section laterally and downward to the lower ends of both lateral ligaments, and turning down the flap thus made. 6. Si/novial Ligaments.—From the synovial membrane lining the pad of fat behind the ligamentum patellfetwo thin lateral folds of membrane extend upward, one on each side of the patella, known as the alar ligaments. From the middle of the surface of the pad a flattish fold, the ligamentum mueosu/m, extends back- ward and upward to the front of the intercondylar notch. It represents the remains of the .synovial partition between the two halves of the tibio-femoral joint and Ijetween the patello-feraoral and tibio-femoral joints. On dividing the ligamentum mucosum we see 7. The anterior enieial ligament, which extends upward, backward, and outward from its lower attachment to the inner half of the depression in front of the spine of the tibia, and between the fore ends of the semilunar cartilages, to the hind part of the inner surface of the outer condyle of the femur. 8. The posterior crucial ligament is stronger, shorter, and more vertical than the anterior. From behind the tibial spine, from the popliteal notch, and receiving fibres from the posterior cornu of the external semilunar cartilage, its ' Forming what has been called the lateral patellar ligaments.THE ARTICULATIONS. 236 Fig. 254.—The semilunar cartilages of the right knee-joint. (Testut.) fibres ascend slightly forward and inward to the front of the outer side of the internal condyle of the femur. Behind and below it is adherent to the posterior ligament. It crosses the anterior crucial ligament on its inner side, and is blended with it below, but separated from it above by a V-shaped space. The synovial membrane is prolonged over them both. The external and internal semilunar fibro-eartilages are two crescentic plates, of a dense, compact structure, attached by their thick, convex, outer margins to the inside of the capsule. They rest upon the circumferential portions of the upper arti- cular facets of the tibia, covering a little less than two-thirds of these surfaces. They increase the concavity for articulation with the femur by a gradual thinning to their concave, free inner borders. Their upper, concave, femoral, and lower flattened tibial surfaces are free and covered by synovial membrane. They taper to their attached ends or cornua, which are purely fibrous, and are fastened in front of and behind the tibial spine, the cornua of the external car- tilage being within those of the internal. The external semilunar cartilage is therefore more circular, the internal is more oval and longer from before backward. The external is also more movable, from the close approximation of its cornua and from the greater laxity of the part of the capsule to which it is attached. Its outer margin is grooved behind, and separated from the capsule by the popliteus tendon, the bursa suiTounding which connects with the joint above and below the cartilage. The transverse ligament is a variable transverse band which connects the outer borders of the two semilunar cartilages in front. Coronriry ligament is a name ajjplied to that part of the capsule between its attachment to the semilunar cartilages above and the head of the tibia below, which holds the cartilages in apposition with the tibia. The synovial memhrane, the largest in the body, lines the capsule of the joint. Above the patella, in front of the femur and beneath the extensor tendon, it forms a large pouch, communicating in most cases with a bursa above it, which lies between the extensor tendon and the front surface of the femur, above the attachment of the capsular membrane. Traced downward, it is found to line the capsule until it meets the semilunar cartilages, where it is reflected onto their upper surfaces, around their free margins, onto their lower surfaces, and so back to the portion of the capsule called the coronary ligament, which it lines down to its tibial attachment. From the capsule behind and the semilunar cartilages below this membrane is reflected onto the crucial ligaments, which it invests, except behind and below, and thus shuts them out of the synovial cavity. It also forms the alar and mucous ligaments. Synovial bursce beneath and between the gastrocnemius and semimembranosus internally, and beneath the popliteus tendon externally, may connect with the synovial cavity. The nerve-supply comes from the internal and external popliteal, the anterior crural, and the obturator nerves. Movements.—The principal movements are those of flexion and extension, which result from a combination of gliding and hinge rotation, not on a fixed axis, but on one which shifts with the points of contact from behind forward in extension, and vice versa in flexion. The points of contact of the articular surfaces are constantly changing from the flattish lower surface of the femoral condyles in exten.sion to their more sharply curved hind surfaces in flexion, and from the fore part of the tibial surfaces in extension to their hind part in flexion. The looseness237 THE TIBIO-FIBULAB UNION. of attachment of the semihmar cartilages allows them to adapt themselves to the differently curved surfaces of the femur. As the knee is moved from the flexed to the extended position the crucial ligaments become tense, and keep pulling back the articular surface of the tibia, so that the points of contact of both tibia and femur are shifted forward. This relaxes the ligaments and allows the motion to continue. The ante- rior crucial ligament also resists the tendency of the extensor muscle to displace the tibia forward in extension. In flexion the crucial ligaments cause a shifting of the points of con- tact in the opposite direction, and the posterior crucial ligament prevents the tibia from being pulled backward by the flexor muscles. At the end of extension there is a slight outward rotation of the tibia and foot on a ver- tical axis, and at the commencement of flexion a similar rotation in the opposite direction. This is due in part to the greater length of the inner condyle, onto the outwardly directed fore part of whose articular surface the inner facet of the tibia glides forward in outward rotation at the end of extension, and backward in in- ward rotation at the beginning of flexion. Ex- tension is checked by the lateral and posterior ligaments and the anterior crucial ligament. Flexion is checked by contact of the soft parts at about 135°. In extreme flexion the liga- mentum patellte, the fore part of the capsule, and the posterior crucial ligaments are tight- ened. The relaxation of the ligaments in the partly flexed position allows an inward and out- ward rotation, on a vertical axis, in which the semilunar cartilages slide back and forth on the tibia. This rotation is impossible in the extended position owing to the tension of the ligaments. Rotation inward is checked by the anterior crucial ligament, rotation outward by the lateral liga- ments. The erect position, in which the line of gravity descends in front of the knee, is maintained, in great measure, without muscular effort by the resistance offered to over-extension by most of the ligaments. The movements between the patella and the femur are a combination of sliding and coaptation. In moving from the extended to the flexed position the lower, middle, and upper parts of the patellar facets are successively in contact with the upper, middle, and lower parts of the trochlear surface of the femur. In exti'eme flexion a narrow vertical surface on the inner side of the patellar facet is in con- tact Avith the fore part of the outer border of the inner condyle of the femur, th^ patella being tui'ned more outward by the external condyle, against which its upper and outer part rests. 3. The Tibio-fibular Union. The tibia and fibula are united at their upper and lower ends by joints, and between them by an interosseous membrane. A. The Superior Tibio-fibular Articulation.—In this joint the oval, flattened, oblique articular surface on the head of the fibula is connected with that on the external tuberosity of the tibia by a capsular ligament, strengthened in front and behind by fibres which pass downward and outward from the tibia to the fibula— Fig. 255.—Knee-joint, outer side. The synovial sacs are artificially distended. (After Poirier.)238 THE A RTICULA TIONS. the anterior and posterior superior tihio-fihular ligaments. The capsule is not infrequently imperfect above and behind, where the synovial cavity of this joint may communicate with that of the knee through the medium of the bursa beneath the po])liteus tendon. B. The Interosseous Membrane extends between the outer border of the tibia and the interosseous border of the fibula as a firm aponeurotic niendtrane, -w hose fibres descend for the most part frf»m the tibia to the filnda, with a few in the opposite direction. It is separated from the superior tibio-fibular joint by an oval opening through which the anterior tibial vessels pass, and below it is con- tinuous with the inferior interosseous ligament, being perforated by the anterior peroneal vessels. It serves mainly for muscular attachment. C. The Inferior Tibio-fibular Articulation (Fig. 256).—The rough triangular surfaces on ])Oth bones, formed by the bifurcation of their interosseous borders, ai'e fii'mly united by the short, sti'ong, obliquely transverse fibres of the inferior interosseous ligament, to within one-fourth an inch of the facets for the astragalus, where two narrow articular facets, continuous with those for the astragalus, are in contact. The union is strengthened in front and behind by the anterior and posterior inferior tibio-fihular ligaments, flat bands wdiich extend across the joint from the lower end of the tibia obliquely outward and downward to the lower end of the fibula. The transverse ligament is a thick, strong band, below the posterior liga- ment, which extends from the posterior border of the lower articular surface Fig. 256.—Tibio-tarsal and calcaneo-astragaloid articulations, in coronal section. The synovial sacs are distended. (Testut.) of the tibia outward, downward, and a little forward to the inner sui'face of the external malleolus, in and above the fossa. Tlie synovial membrane, continuous with that of the ankle, extends up between the bones as far as the inferior inter- osseous ligament. The movements in these joints consist in a slight yielding or vertical sliding, which is allowed by the obliquity of the ligaments. The upward sliding of the fibula is accompanied by a slight widening of the tibio-fibular mortice, which occurs in flexion of the ankle. The inferior interosseous ligament is put to a great strain in the injuries producing " Pott's fracture."THE ANKLE-JOINT. 239 4. The Ankle-joint (Figs. 256, 257). Tlie ankle is a hinge-joint, in which the articular surfaces of the lower end and internal malleolus of the tibia and of the external malleolus of the fibula form a mortice, into which the upper and lateral facets of the astragalus fit as a tenon. The transverse ligament helps to complete the tiljio-fibular socket behind. The capsule, strengthened and protected by the strong tendons passing over it, is divided, for description, into the following ligaments : The internal lateral or deltoid Uc/atnent is a strong, flat, triangular band m IucIi radiates from the lower and ventral borders of the internal nuilleolus downward and backward to the rough inner surface of the astragalus, downward to the sustentacu- lum tali of the os calcis, and downward and forward to the navicular and the margin of the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. A so-called deej) portion descends from the notch on the lower border of the malleolus to the depression on the inner surface of the astragalus. The external lateral ligament presents three separate diverging bands : 1. The Fig. 257.—Tibio-tarsal artic\ilation, outer side. The cavity is artificially distended. (Testut.) ayiterior faseieulus, short and ribl)on-like, passes from the ventral border of the external malleolus obliquely forward and upward to the astragalus, in front of its external lateral facet. 2. The })i;V/f//(' _/Vf.sc;c«/H.s, strong and round, descends slightly backward from the tip and the fore part of the outer surface of the external mal- leolus to the middle of the outer surface of the os calcis. 3. The posterior fasci-240 THE ARTICULATTONS. cuius is the strongest, and passes from the hind border and the fossa on the inner side of the external malleohis almost horizontally inward to the outer surface of the astragalus, behind the facet, and to its external tubercle. The anterior ligament is a thin, loose membrane between the lateral ligaments in front. It is attached above to the ventral margin of the lower end of the tibia, above a slight transverse groove, and below to the rough upper aspect of the head of the astragalus. A mass of fat beneath it rests in the groove of the neck of the astragalus. The posterior ligament is very thin and weak, and consists of scattered oblique fibres between the dorsal margins of the articular surfaces of the tibia and the astragalus. The flexor longus hallucis tendon serves largely as a posterior ligament. The synovial membrane is very loose on the anterior and posterior ligaments, forming folds between the tibia and the astragalus. It forms a short cul-de-sac between the tibia and fibula, in addition to lining the ligaments of the ankle. Nerves.—Branches from the anterior and posterior tibial and the internal saphenous supply the joint. The movements of the ankle are flexion and extension through a range of less than 90°. Flexion or dorsal flexion, in which the dorsum of the foot and toes approaches the leg, is limited by the posterior ligament, the posterior parts of the lateral ligaments, and by the contact of the ventral margin of the lower end of the tibia with the neck of the astragalus. In extreme flexion the fibula is slightly raised and spread somewhat from the tibia, accommodating the wide fore part of the upper articular surface of the astragalus. Extension or plantar flexion, where the toes are brought nearly into line with the leg, is limited by bony contact behind and by the tension of the anterior ligament and the anterior parts of the lateral ligaments. Extreme extension is accompanied by some adduction and slight supination of the foot, wdiich probably occurs in the tarsal joints ; for, although in this position the narrow dorsal part of the astragalus facet is less tightly held in the wide fore part of the tibio-fibular mortice, yet probably no latei'al motion normally occurs except from external force. In the erect posture the line of gravity falls a little in front of the axis of the ankle, which is directed from within outward and backward. This obliquity of the axis helps to secure stability in the erect attitude, which is otherwise dependent on muscular action. The lateral ligaments are often partly ruptured in sprains of the ankle and in " Pott's fracture." 5. The Tarsal Joints (Figs. 256-259). The articulations of the astragalus consist of (1) a, posterior and exfei'nal astra- galo-calcaneal joint, and (2) an emterior and internal calcaneo-astragalo-scaphoid joint, the fore part of which, or the astragalo-scaphoid portion, is partly sup- ported and encapsulated by the two calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments uniting the os calcis and scaphoid bone. (1) In the posterior astragalo-ealcaneal joint the dorsal pair of facets between these two bones are held together by a capsule, split up into several distinct slips as follows : An internal astragalo-cedcaneal band passes from the internal tubercle of the astragalus, on the inner side of the groove for the flexor longus hallucis tendon downward and forward to the back of the sustentaculum tali. The posterior astragalo-cedcaneal ligament, attached above to the external tubercle of the astra- galus, spreads out onto the adjacent upper and inner surfaces of the os calcis. An external ligament connects the two bones beneath and in front of the middle slip of the external lateral ligament of the ankle, with which its fibres are parallel. The interosseous ligament is a strong band of fibres passing vertically between the grooves of the astragalus and os calcis, which together form the sinus pedis. It separates the two articulations between the astragalus and the os calcis, and consists of imperfectly separate layers, one of which serves as the anterior ligament of the posterior joint, and the other as the posterior ligamentTHE TARSAL JOINTS. 241 of the anterior joint. Furthermore, those parts of the lateral ligaments of the ankle which reach the os calcis help to unite it with the astragalus. (2) Tiie caleaneo-astmgalo-SGaphoid joint is between the anterior facet on the upper surface of the os calcis and the facets on the lower surfoce of the head and neck of the astragalus, and between the head of the astragalus and the navicular. The bones are held together by the following ligaments, in addition to the interos- seous ligament, which limits the joint postero-externally. Calcaneo-scaphoid Ligaments.—The inferior or internal ligament is broad, thick, and partly tibro-eartilaginous. It firmly unites the front and inner edges of the sustentaculum tali with the inferior surface of the navicular and its inner surface behind the tubercle. Its upper surface is smooth and articular, and completes the socket for the head of the astragalus below and internally. The upper part of its under surface presents a smooth facet for the tendon of the tibialis posterior, which aids in supporting the head of the astragalus. It is blended internally with the internal lateral ligament of the ankle, and externally and below with the external or superior calcaneo-seaphoid liganient. The strong fibres of the latter ligament pass obliquely forward and inward from the fore part of the upper surface of the os calcis, external to its front upper facet, to the outer surface of the scaphoid. It limits both the anterior astragalo-calcaneal and the astragalo-scaphoid joints externally. The capsule is completed superiorly by the astragalo-scaphoid liga- ment, a broad, thin, membranous band, which converges from the upper surface of the head of the astragalus to the upper surface of the navicular. The synovial membrane of the posterior astragalo-calcaneal and that of the calcaneo-astragalo-navicular joints are distinct, and separated from one another by the interosseous ligament. The calcaneo-cuboid articulation, between the contiguous facets of the os calcis and the cuboid, forms, with that between the astragalus and scaphoid, the medio- tarsal, transverse tarsal, or Chopart's joint. The surfaces are held together by the following ligaments : The inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligaments consist of two por- FiG. 258.—Medio-tarsal joint, viewed from above, the astragalus having been removed. (Testut.) tions, known as plantar ligaments. The superficial ])art, or long plantar ligament, arises from the under surface of the os calcis between the tubercles, and extends forward to the oblique ridge on the under surface of the cuboid. From this ridge some fibres continue forward, bridging over and converting into a canal tlie groove for the peroneus longus tendon, and are attached to the bases of the outer four meta- tarsal bones. The deep portion, or short plantar ligament, attached to the under surface of the os calcis, to and in front of the anterior tubercle, extends forward and inward to the depression on the under surface of the cuboid behind the 16242 THE ARTICULATIONS. oblique ridge. The superior calcaneo-cuboid ligament connects the adjacent parts of the upper surfaces of the two bones, blending; externally with the outer part of the short plantar ligament, and internally with the internal or interosseous ea/eaneo- cuhoid ligament. This strong band connects the inner surfaces of the two bones near their articular margins, lying deeply in the hollow between the os caleis and astragalus, where it is closely connected with the external calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. The synoinal membrane is separate from that of the other tarsal joints. Movements.—The movements of the fore part of the foot on the hind part take place at the medio-tarsal joint. The movements at the calcaneo-astragaloid joints are inversion and eversion (turning of the sole iuAvai'd and outward respectively), and adduction and abduction (the movement of the front of the foot to and from the median line resjjectively). Both of these forms of move- ment occur also in the medio-tarsal joint, and besides them there is here quite free flexion and extension around an oblique axis, extending from within outward and somewhat backward and downward. Flexion is simultaneous with extension at the ankle, and extension, which is more limited, is simultaneous with flexion at the ankle. Thus, the variety and range of motion of the foot are increased beyond the limited flexion and extension allowed in the ankle. The astragalo- scaphoid joint is of the ball-and-socket variety, but, owing to the connection of the scaphoid and cuboid bones, its motions are so restricted by the concavo-convex calcaneo-cuboid joint that adduction and inversion are combined with flexion and abduction, and eversion with extension, the latter being limited by the plantar ligaments. The calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments also limit motion here. At the medio-tarsal and astragalo-calcaneal joints increase of the arch, combined with adduction and inversion, or decrease of the arch with abduction and eversion, may occur, leading respectively to club- or flat-foot, when for any reason these posi- tions are exaggerated and j^ermanent. In the Cubo-scaphoid joint the cuboid and navicular are united by—(1) a dor- sal ligament, passing obliquely for\\'ard and outward from the scaphoid to the cuboid ; (2) a plantar ligament, similarly disposed on the plantar surface ; and (3) a strong interosseous ligamerd, connecting their contiguous surfaces, which, when they touch, present small articular facets, whose connecting ligaments are lined by an extension of the scapho-cuneiform sy^iovial viemhrane. The Scapho-cuneiform Articulation.—The navicular is united in one continuous joint to the three cuneifVirm bones in front of it by (1) strong r?o;-.sa/ ligaments from the upper surface of the scaphoid to that of each of the three cuneiform bones ; and (2) by j)lanteir ligaments similarly disposed beneath and continuous with the fibres of the tibialis posterior tendon, which, by passing outward as well as forward, strengthens the transverse arch of the foot. The dorsal and plantar ligaments are continuous on the inner aspect of the internal cuneiform bone. The Cubo-cuneiform Articulation.—Transverse fibres unite the dorsal, plantar, and contiguous surfaces of the cuboid and external cuneiform bones, forming the dorsal, plantar and interossenus ligaments. Intercuneiform Articulations.—The three cuneiform bones are similarly con- nected by transverse dorsal and strong interosseous ligaments. On the plantar surfixce there is a strong band passing outward and forward from the inner to the middle cuneiform bone, but the tibialis jjosterior tendon serves for the plantar ligaments. S;/novial llembrane.—A single synovial cavity is common to the scapho- cuneiform and the intercuneiform joints, and usually to the cubo-cuneiform joint, tliough the latter may have a separate synovial cavity. The synovial cavity between the cuneiform bones usually extends between the internal and middle cuneiform, to become continuous with that of the tarso-metatarsal joints between the middle and external cuneiforms behind and the second and third metatarsals in front. The movements in the above arthrodial joints, between the tarsal bones in243 THE TARSAL JOINTS. front of the medio-tarsal joint, are limited to a slight gliding, due to the weight of the body rather than to mnscidar action, whereby the transverse arch of the foot is either flattened or deepened, thns increasing the elasticity and pliancy of the tarsus. 6. Tarso-metatarsal and Intermetatarsal Articulations. The front surfaces of the three cuneiform bones and of the ciil:>oid articulate with the proximal facets of the five metatarsals along a line (Hey's line) made irregular by the forward projection of the internal and external cuneiform bones. The first, second, and third metatarsals articulate with the internal middle and external cuneiform bones respectively, the fourth and fifth with the cuboid. The second metatarsal is wedged in between the internal and external cuneiforms, and the fourth usually articulates with the external cuneiform laterally. The surfaces are held together by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The dorsal ligaments are flat, thin bands which pass forward from the tarsal to the metatarsal bones. The first metatarsal bone receives one from the internal cuneiform ; the Fig. 259.—The plantar ligaments. (Testut.) second, one from each cuneiform ; the third, one from the external cuneiform ; the fourth, one from the external cuneiform and one from the cuboid; the fifth, one from the cuboid. The j)lania,r ligaments are more irregular, and are strengthened by the expansions of the tibialis posterior and jDeroneus longus ten- dons and the long plantar ligament. A strong plantar band connects the internal cuneiform with the fii'st metatarsal, and another with the second and third meta- tarsal bones. Other slender plantar bands connect the metatarsal with their corresponding tarsal bones. The interosseous ligaments, three in nmiiber, divide the synovial cavities of the tarso-metatarsal and intermetatarsal joints into three distinct parts, and oifer resistance to disarticulation at this joint: (1) A strong interosseous ligament passes from the outer surface of the internal cuneiform to the contiguous non- articular portion of the inner surfiice of the second metatarsal, and shuts off the synovial cavity of the first tarso-metatarsal joint from that of the second and244 THE ARTICULATIONS. third, which also extends between the bases of the second and third and between the third and fourth metatarsal bones, and is continuous with that of the naviculo- cuneiform joints, etc. (2) Another interosseous ligament separates the last- described synovial cavity from that between the fourth and fifth metatarsals and between them and the cuboid, by passing from the antero-external edge of the external cuneiform to the inner surface of the fourth and the opposed non- articular surfaces of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. (3) A slender inter- osseous ligament often passes from the inner and front edge of the external cunei- form to the outer side of the second metatarsal bone. Intermetatarsal Articulations.—Proximal.—The four outer bones articulate with one another laterally, and are firmly bound together by short transverse dor.'<nl, plantar, and interosseous lif/anients. The interosseous ligaments connect the rough parts of the lateral surfaces in front of the articular facets, and are verv strong. The dorsal ligament between the internal cuneiform and the second metatarsal takes the place of one between the first and second metatarsal bones, between which there is often a bursa with a facet on the first metatarsal only. Distal.— The digital extremities are loosely connected on their plantar aspect by four transverse bands blending with the ]ilantar sesamoid ]ilates. These form the transverse m,etcdm-sed ligament, which differs fi'om the similar structure in the hand in having a band between the first and second metatarsal bones. Movements.—In the tarso-metatarsal joints there are slight flexion and exten- sion, combined in the first, fourth, and fifth joints with ab- and adduction, which are most free in the fifth joint. In the tarso-metatarsal and intermetatarsal joints there are also gliding movements, whereby the arch is altered and the foot adapted to the ground and made more elastic and flexible. 7. Metatarso-phalangeal and Interphalangeal Articulations. The rounded heads of the metatarsal bones and the concave bases of the first phalanges form articulations similar to the corresponding joints of the hand. They are connected by kdered ligaments and a thick fii)rous plftntar se.setmoid plate, ossified laterally in the great toe-joint into two sesetmoid. bones, which attach the flexor brevis tendons and bound a groove for the long flexor tendon. The phalanges articulate with one another in the same manner as in the hand, and with the same ligaments (i. e., lateral and an inferior or glenoid ligament), except that the second and third phalanges are often ossified together in the foot. The dorsal ligaments of the above joints are principally formed by the extensor tendons. Each joint has a separate synovial membrane. The movemetds also are similar to those in the hand, except that at the meta- tarso-phalangeal joints extension is more free than in the hand ; lateral motions (adduction and abduction) are less free, and take place to and from the second toe as a centre; and the movements of the great toe are much more limited than those of the thumb. Mechanism.—In walking the heel is the first part of the foot to touch the ground, and the weight of the body is transmitted to it through the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid joint, the foot being slightly adducted. As the other foot swings forward the outer border of the supporting foot is raised from the ground and the weight is transmitted to the inner toes ; the foot becomes abducted, and leaves the ground by means of flexion of the great toe. In standing, the longi- tudinal arch is supported and the weight of the body borne by the plantar and calcaneo-navicular ligaments. The oblique direction of the exjjansion of the tibialis posterior and peroneus longus tendons, forward and outward and forward and inward respectively, help to support the longitudinal as well as the transverse arch of the foot. The latter is also supported by the transverse plantar and interosseous ligaments. The heads of the metatarsal bones, on which, and not on the toes, the foot rests in front, are somewhat spread out by the weight of the body, when the foot is raised on the toes.245 THE MUSCLES. By F. H, GEKRISH. Amuscle is an organ whose essential part is a mass of striated muscular tissue, prolonged at its opposite ends or margins by cords, bands, or sheets of white fibrous tissue, which are fastened to other structures, usually bones. The mus- cular tissue is contractile, and is the active portion of the organ; the fibrous is strong and flexible, but is only passive. The contractile portion is called the muscle proper, the belly, or the body of the muscle; the fibrous extensions are called tendons (sinews), and sometimes, when greatly expanded, aponeuroses. The muscle proper may be compared to an engine, in which force is generated ; its tendons to the ropes by which the power is ajiplied to distant objects. The relation of the tendons to the body of the muscle varies greatly in differ- ent muscles, both as regards their proportion and their arrangement. The belly may have tendinous structure only at its extremities, or one or both of the ten- dons may start far back upon the surface of the contractile mass, or a tendon may be in large part concealed in the midst of the muscular tissue. Several plates of tendon may be thus embedded, all connected with the terminal cord. When the tendons arc found only at the ends of a muscle, the fibres of the two kinds of tissue are substantially in the same axis ; but, when one of the other arrangements obtains, the muscular fibres are placed at an angle to the tendinous, as the barbs of a feather are related to the quill. In a few muscles there is a third tendon midway of its contractile mass, which is thus divided into two, becoming double-bellied—in technical phrase, digastric or biventral. One or more narrow, fibrous interruptions, partial or complete, may occur in some long muscles, constituting tendinous inscriptions. Bones in Tendons.—Small osseous masses, called sesamoid (" like sesame") bones, are sometimes developed in tendons at points where they play over joints and are exposed to great pressure. Some of these are constant, as the patella, which is a sesamoid bone in the great muscle Avhich straightens the leg on the thigh. Synovial Sheaths of Tendons.—Synovial membrane of the vaginal form is developed around many tendons which run in canals, as in the case of various digital muscles. Bursal synovial membranes are found at very many spots where tendons press upon one another or vipon other organs, especially where they pass over prominences of bone. An articular synovicd membrane may be prolonged beyond its joint, and furnish a lubricating sheath to the tendon of a neighboring muscle. Attachments of Tendons.—A tendon may be long or short; it may resemble a cord, a ril)bon, or a sheet. In the last case it is conunonly called an aponeurosis —an undesii-able, because etymologically misleading, name, but now firmly fixed by eminent sanction. Tendons are usually fastened to bones and cartilages, l)ut may be attached to ligaments, skin, and other soft parts. The fibrous tissue of the tendon intermingles, and becomes continuous, with the periosteum of the bone, the perichondrium of the cartilage, or the deep layer of the skin, thus blending with a structure which is histologically identical with itself. When one con-THE MUSCLES. 246 siders the intimacy of relation between periosteum and bone, he is not sur- prised at the infrequency of the separation of a tendon from its osseous attachment. Proportionate Increase of Tendons with Age.—The tendinous portion of a muscle increases witli years, and on tliis aeeount tlie muscles of an adult are stitfer than those of a child, and the range of joint-movement is diminished. A cliild's extended lower limb may l>e kept at a right angle Avitli his trunk for a long time Avithout causing him any discomfort; but the same procedure cannot be prac- tised upon an adult without producing great suffering and perhaps injury. The difference is due to the normal muscular extensibility in tlie infant on the one liand, and the equally normal tendinous inextensibility in the adult on the other. Origin and Insertion of Muscles.—A muscle is attached to two objects, and by its contraction lessens tlie distance between them. The part which is fastened to the more tixed of these objects is called the ofujiv, the other the insertion. The origin is generally, especially in the limbs, proximal, the insertion distal. But the terms are entirely physiological and largely conventional, for in case of many muscles there is room for difference of opinion as to which portion is the more entitled to be called origin—the action being as frequently from one end as from the other. Fasciae.—The muscles in a region are maintained in close relations with each other by strong sheets of white fibrous tissue, whicli are wrapped firmly around them and often send shelves between them. These fibrous expansions are called faseice (" bandages "), and also apoyiearoses of investment. They will be described in detail after the muscles have been considered. It will suffice here to remark that it is common for muscles to have extensive attachments, either of origin or insertion, to the fascite which enwrap them. Ligamentous Action of Muscles.—The muscles perform a valuable service in keeping tlie cartilaginous surfaces of the movable joints in contact. The liga- ments proper are in many cases utterly inadequate for this work, as witness the joint between the shoulder and arm : remove the muscles and the humerus drops away from the glenoid fossa. But the muscles, which normally are never fully relaxed, keep up a tireless pressure, and, excepting violent accidents, never allow a separation to occur. This unvarying normal tension of muscular tissue is an obstacle to the reduction of fractures and dislocations ; for as soon as a bone is thrown out of its position, or a l)reach in the continuity of its substance occurs, the neighboring muscles, in demonstration of their being constantly somewhat tense, pull the luxated l)one still further out of place, or cause the fragments to overlap each other. Tlie muscular force is often so great as to require much strength, or antcsthesia, or both, to overcome it. The Mechanics of Muscular Attachments.—The points of attachment of most muscles are such as to place these organs at a great mechanical disadvantage. This is very evident in a large part of the muscles of the limbs. Take, for example, a muscle which bends the forearm upon the arm. It is attached to the lower half of the front of the humerus, crosses the elbow-joint, and just below this is attached to the ulna (Fig. 260). The loss of power involved here is illus- trated in a homely way by comparing the effort required to close a door by pulling it toward one, when it is grasped at a point near the hinges, with that which suffices when it is seized near its free edge, where the knob is usually placed. Manifestly the latter method is vastly easier. If the same plan were adopted in the flexion of the forearm, the muscle would be attached high on the humerus and low on the ulna (Fig. 261). But, although this would be advantageous as regards the expenditure of force, it would be strikingly otherwise in directions of quite as much importance. In the first place, the contraction of muscular tissue shortens it to one-half its length and no more, on which account the forearm could be bent upon the arm only to B, instead of to a much higher point, C, ■which is normally reached. In the second place, there would be a loss of rapidityPBniABY, SECONDARY, DIRECT, AND REVERSED ACTIONS. 247 of movomcnt of tlic lower end of the limb about proportionate to tlic o;ain of power ; for the nearer to the hinge the force is applied, tlie more; rapid will l)e the movement of the long arm of the lever. Then, tlie oecu])ation by the muscle of each successive ])ortion of the great triangular space included by it and the two bones when in Hexion would be an intolerable interference with the usefulness of the limb, practically reducing the carrying power of the front of the forearm to Fig. 260.—Diagram showing the mechanical Fig. 201.—Diagram showing the effect of attaching a disadvantage of tlie points of attachment of limb-muscle at points of the greatest mechanical advau- many muscles. (F. H. G.) tage. (F. H. G.) nothing. There would also be a loss of a great deal of the important liga- mentous work of the muscles by their removal from close contact with the joints during their most pronounced activity. Thus it will be seen that the condition which exists, while extremely costly in the matter of muscular expenditure, is attended with advantages which are more than comjjensatory. Change in Direction of Muscular Force.—Tendons are often made to pass around ])rominences and through loops, the force originating in the muscle, thus experiencing a change of direction, as in the case of a rope which runs from an engine through a pulley to an object which is to })e hoisted. The contractile force of such a muscle is applied in line with the portion of its tendon lying between the last angle which it makes and the point of its attachment to the object to be moved. On account of the lubrication of the tendon by synovia, which is always present in such cases, no appreciable loss of power is experienced by the change of direction. Primary, Secondary, Direct, and Reversed Actions.—A muscle which crosses248 THE MUSCLES. only one joint has l)ut two possibilities of action : one, which may be called its (Jirect action, is from a fixed origin to a movable insertion ; the other, its rcrcrKcd action, is from a fixed insertion to a movable origin. But many muscles cross two or more joints, and by so much is the number of their movements aug- mented. For instance, the superficial flexor of the fingers primarily and directly flexes the second phal- anges upon the first phalanges (Fig. 262, A) ; but, when this movement is completed or is prevented, continuance of the contraction causes flexion of the first phalanges upon the metacarpal bones, and this may be called the direct secondary aciion (Fig. 262 B). When this movement is accomplished or ar- rested, still further contraction produces flexion of the whole hand upon the forearm—the direct tertiary action> (Fig. 262, C); and, finally, by persistence in the performance, the forearm is flexed slightly upon the arm—the direct qmdernavy action (Fig. 262, I)). The reversed actions in these various stages are too obvious to require description. The segment of a limb on which a muscle acts carries with it, of course, all of the parts distal to it; and the movement effected by the contraction of the muscles is more manifest upon those parts than upon the segment bearing them, since they describe larger arcs. This is particularly noticeable in the prona- tion and supination of the radius. The change in the relation f»f the lateral parts of the forearm is far less apparent than the alteration in the attitude of the hand, which jiassively accompanies the radius. The Blending of Muscles.—Muscles are often asso- ciated in groups so intimately that, either at origin or insertion, there is an actual blending of substance. Myologists have not agreed upon an absolute rule for the settlement of the question of division or uni- fication in these cases, some describing as two or three distinct muscles what others regard as a compound one. There is much in this connection which is conventional and arbitrary, and, consequently, perplexing. The Muscles in Pairs.—Almost all of the skeletal muscles are arranged in pairs, and thus a description of one on either side will answer for its mate on the opposite side. A few are single and located about the median line, and in these there is generally a l)ilateral symmetry. The Size of Muscles varies from a fraction of an inch to many inches. In form they are extremely diverse, and only in a small proportion is their resem- blance to familiar objects sufficiently striking to justify the application of names intended to be descriptive of their shape. The Nomenclature of Muscles. Latinity of Names.—The muscles are almost always called by their Latin names. A few have become Anglicized, commonly by the omission of the ter- mination (as deltoid, instead of deUoidem) ; but tht^ attempts which have been made to displace the Latin appellations by substituting English translations of them have always failed. The student, howcvei-, should learn the exact meaning of every name, as this knowledge cannot fail to be of great assistance to him. For example, almost one-half of the names of the muscles moving the several c Fig. 262.—Diagram showing the primary, secondary, tertiary, etc. actions of a muscle". (F. H. (j.)249 NAMES OF MOVEMENTS PRODUCED. segments of the upper limb, are descriptive of tlie action of these muscles, and nearly two-thirds of these convey some additional information—of form, situa- tion, or size. The majority of the names of the other half of this group indicate position, and the residue call attention to some characteristic of sliape or resem- blance. From this it will be seen that the names are not arbitrary, but are designed to be descriptive, and, consequently, are helpful in the first learning and in the permanent retention of the facts. The Latin word mmculus ("muscle") is always implied in the name of a muscle, and the part which is expressed is either an adjective or a noun in appo- sition, with or without limiting words. Reasons for the Names of Muscles.—Muscles are named from various con- siderations, and occasionally more than one of these is appealed to in the selection of a name. It is noticeable that the names of individuals are not used in the nomenclature of muscles, as they are in almost every other branch of anatomy. The following are the principal derivations of the names of muscles : 1, action or supposed action, as levator scapula?, " the lifter of the shoulder-blade," supi- nator, " the muscle ])roducing supination "—turning the part onto its back ; 2, form, as gracilis, " the slender muscle," serratus, " the saw-toothed muscle ;" 3, the form of two muscles symmetrically located on ojjposite sides of the body, as trapezius, " the table-like muscle," though each trapezius is not trapezoid but triangular ; 4, resemblance to a natural object, as lumbricalis, " the earthworm muscle," soleus, "the sole-fish muscle;" 5, situation, as frontalis, "the forehead muscle," subclavius, " the muscle under the collar-l)one ;" 6, attachments, as coraco- brachialis, " the muscle connecting the coracoid process and the arm," brachio- radialis, " the muscle connecting the arm and the radius ;" 7, size, either absolute, as vastus, " the great muscle," or comparative, as latissimus, " the broadest mus- cle;" 8, division, as quadriceps, "the four-headed muscle," multifidus, "the muscle of many clefts ;" 9, paired condition, as gemellus, " the twin muscle ;" 10, supposed singleness, as azygos uvulfe, " the uvula muscle not yoked to a mate ;" ] 1, involvement of structure, as complexus, " the complicated muscle ; " 12, direction of fibres, as rectus, " the straight muscle," transversalis, " the transverse muscle ;" 13, rehdive proportion of contractile and non-contractile tissues, as semimembranosus, " the half-membrane muscle," semitendinosus, " the half-tendon muscle ;" 14, existence of a tendon midway between two contractile portions, as digastric and biventer, "the muscles with two bellies;" 15, occupation in which the muscle is thought to be useful, as sartorius, " the tailor's muscle," buccinator, " the trumpeter's muscle ;" 16, expression produced, as risorius, " the laughing mus- cle ;" 17, the subordinate character of the work done, as accessorius, " the assistant muscle." Names of Movements Produced.—Most of the movements of the parts upon which muscles act have received specific names, some of which are applied also to the attitudes resulting from these movements. When one part is bent upon another, the movement is called flexion (" a bending") ; when the part is straightened out, the action is extension (" a stretching "); and thus flexion and extension are antagonistic actions and attitudes. The moving of a part further away from the middle line (the median plane of the whole l)ody being meant, unless otherwise specified) is abduction (" a drawing from "); the ojiposite move- ment, by which the part is restored to its former position, is adduction (" a draw- ing to "). The sliglit ditference between these antipodal words should be noted —the one begins with ah, the Latin for " from," the other with ad, the Latin for " to." When a part is made to revolve u^Jon its long axis, the movement is rota- tion, ("a revolving"); and when its lower extremity is caused to describe a circle, and the part itself thus traverses the periphery of a cone, the action is cir- cumduction (" a drawing around "). The movement which turns a part onto its face is pronation (" a bending forward "), and the reverse is supination (" lying on the back").250 THE MUSCLES. The Order of Study.—The muscles will l)e considered in the following order: The muscles of the upper eimb. The muscles of THE lower limb. The muscles of the trunk. (a) those of the hack, including the dorsum of the neck. (6) those of the abdomen. (c) those of the thorax. The muscles of the neck, at the front and sides. The muscles of the head. The muscles of the tongue, pliarynx, and soft palate will be presented in con- nection with the organs of digestit>n ; those of the larynx with the respiratory system ; those of the eye and ear with sjiecial sense organs ; and those of the 'periiicnia with the genitals. Illustrative Pictures arc provided so liberally in this chajitcr, and show certain details so clearly, that it is practicable to omit from the verbal descriptions many things which are usually given in them, and this, too, not only without diminu- tion of clearness, but often with distinct advantage in this regard, since facts can usually be more quickly apprehended and more lirndy held when presented bv pictorial means, than when introduced into the mind through the medium of words. Thus, the form of a muscle, the most imjiortant relations of its contractile and tendinous jjortions, and its princi])al relati(ms to neighboring muscles are generally shown so plainly in the drawings of dissections, that their description can safely and profitably be omitted from the text. The Outline Drawings of individual muscles shoio in each instance the location and proportionate size of the areas of osseous origin and insertion, and also the margins of the entire muscle from the selected ])oint of view, thus suggesting its action. In cases trhere a surface of attachment or a pjart of the outline is not visible from the chosen point, the concealed portion is drawn in dots or broken line, and is represented as if the intervening skeletal structure were transparent. Minuteness of verbal description of muscular attachments, while morphologi- cally interesting, is of little or no practical value to the physician and surgeon, and, consequently, is not attempted. The essential facts are presented in the text, and in most cases are abundantly illustrated in the outline drawings. Connection with Neighboring Soft Parts.—The attachments to superjacent fas- ciae, intermuscular septa, and other soft ])arts will often be omitted from the text for the sake of brevity, especially when these are of insignificant extent, or have already been mentioned in connection with the group of muscles concerned. It may usually be assumed that a muscle has some attachment to the fibrous struct- ures—investing sheets, partitions between it and its immediate neighbors, liga- ments, etc.—with which it is in close contact. The Action assigned to a muscle is that effected by its contraction from a fixed origin to a movable insertion—the direct primary action—unless otherwise speci- fied. The direct secondary and all reversed actions can be worked out correctly and easily hy one who has learned the direct primary action and the anatomical reasons for it. Classification of the Limh Muscles.—The classification of the muscles of the limbs which is here given is ])hysiological, being based upon their primary and most characteristic action. Although this grouping is very different from that which is generally fi^llowed, it is believed to be more useful as an aid in learning the facts of greatest imjiortance in myology, and in applying the knowledge thus gained in medical and surgical ])ractice. Of course, it is not claimed that this classification is perfect—none which rests ujion a physiological basis can be ; but long em])loyment of it lias demonstrated its utility in attracting and holding the interest of the student, and this mainly because there is kept constantly in view the application of the facts which he is learning. After the muscles of a limb have been described, their classification on a regional basis will be presented.THE MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB, 251 THE MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. Movements of the Upper Limb. Each of the four primary segments of tlie upper limb is capable of a wide range of action. Movements of the Shoulder.—In the chapter on the joints the scapula is shown to be somewhat movable upon the clavicle ; but, in studying the principal action of the muscles, the movements of the claviculo-acromial joint may l)e ignored with- out serious departure from the fact, and the skeleton of the shoulder may be regarded as practically a single bone. This framework is pivoted upon the trunk at the sterno-clavicular articulation, and is proximally attached at other points by muscles only. The movements of the shoulder, therefore, centre on the upper end of the sternum, and are made ujiward, downward, forward, and backward, the terms used to designate them—elevation, depression, etc.—requiring no explanation. Movements of the Arm.—The arm, being united to the shoulder by means of a ball-and-socket joint, can be moved in every direction which is consistent with the integrity of the articular structures and with the retention of the humeral head in the glenoid fossa. Its movement forward is flexion, backward is exten- sion, outward is ahdudion, inward is adduction. AVhen it is rolled on its own axis so that its front turns toward the trunk, the movement is imoanl rotation ; when it revolves so as to turn its front away from the trunk, the action is external rotation. Its circumduction is inward when tlie front semicircle described by the lower end of the arm is made from the outside toward the mid-line, and the oppo- site movement is outirarel circumduction. Movements of the Forearm.—The elbow-joint proper is a hinge, allowing motion between the forearm and arm only forwaixl, which h flexion, and Ijackward, which is extension. Between the two forearm bones, however, are movements which consist in the overla|)])ing of the ulna by the radius, pronation, and the opposite action by which the parts are restored to their anatomical attitude, supination. Movements of the Hand.—The articulation between the forearm and carpus permits motion of the hand forward, which is flexion, backward which is exten- sion, sidewise toward the mid-line, adduction, and from this line, abduction. Cir- cumduction, which is accomplished by a combination of these movements, is inward or outward, according to the rule given above. In these various move- ments of the whole hand some motion takes place in the joints between the car- pal bones ; but these are so slight as to be practically inappreciable, and require no further mention. Movements of the Metacarpal Bones.—The second, tldrd, and fonrth metacarpal bones are so firmly joined to the carpus that but little motion is possible, even when their respective digits are most forcibly acted upon. The fifth metacarpal hone has an ap]jreciable forward movement, which is flexion, a backward, which is extension, and slight lateral motions, abduction and adductioti. The flrd meta- carpcd, is so articulated at the wrist that its range is very great, and this freedom of action is more than a compensation for the deficiency of a phalanx in its digit. Movements of the Common Digits.—Forward movement of the fingers and of each of their j^halanges \sfiexion, and backward movement is extension. The lateral movements of the fingers are called edxluction and adduction ; but the median line of the body is not here taken as the ])lane from and to which the action is reckoned, a line drawn through the middle of the middle finger when it is in repose being substituted. There is practically no lateral motion at the interphalangeal joints. Movements of the Thumb.—It is to be particularly noticed that the first metacarpal is so placed that the thumb is in advance of the plane of the other digits and its palmar aspect is about at a right angle with theirs. Consequently, a bending at the joints of the thumb toward its palmar aspect, which is flexion, as in the case (jf the other digits, causes it to cross the jmlm of the hand toward the hypothenar eminence. The restoring movement is extension. Abduction of252 THE MUSCLES. the thumb is in the direction of flexion of the fingers, and its adduction is in the direction of their extension. Its circumduction requii'es no especial description. It will be observed that, from the shoulder-joint down, fonrard movements arc flexions, and the backward movements are extensions—the thumb offering the only exceptions. In the lower limb this rule does not apply. Classification of the Muscles of the Upper Limb on the Basis of THEIR Principal Action. Moving the Shoulder. Upward and backivard. J)mmmard and forward. Trapezius. Serratus magnus. Levator scapulte. Pectoralis minor. Ehomboideus minor. Subclavius. Rhomboideus major. Moving the Arm. Abductors. Adductors. Pectoralis major. \ j ^ , , Deltoideus. Coraco-brachialis. /*■' Suprasiiinatus. Latissimus. I , , ^ ^ rr • )■ also extenso7'S. leres major, j Outimrd Rotators. Imvard EcAator. InfrasjMnatus. Subseapularis. Teres minor. Moving the Whole Forearm. Flexors. Extensors. Biceps flexor cubiti. Triceps extensor cubiti. Brachialis. Anconeus. Brachio-radialis. Moving the Outer Part of the Forearm. Pronatoi s. Sap in ator. Pronator teres. Supinator. Pronator quadratus. Moving the Whole Hand. Flexors. Extensors. Flexor carpi radialis. Extensor carpi radialis longus. [Flexor] palmaris longus. Extensor carpi radialis brevis. Flexor carpi uhiaris. Extensor carpi ulnaris. Moving the Fingers and the Fifth Metacarpal Bone. Flexors. Extensors. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Extensor communis digitorum. Flexor profundus digitorum. Extensor minimi digiti. *Flexor ossis metacar])i minimi digiti. Extensor indicis. *Flexor brevis minimi digiti. *Lumbricales. Abductors. Adductors. *Interossei dorsales. *Interossci palmares. *Abductor minimi digiti. Moving the Thumb and its Metacarpal Bone. Flexors. Extensors. *Flexor ossis metacarpi poUicis. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. *Flexor brevis pollicis. Extensor brevis pollicis. Flexor longus pollicis. Extensor longus pollicis.MUSCLES MO VIJVG THE SHO ULDER. 253 Abductor. Adductor. *Abductor pollicis. *Adductor pollicis. * Situated entirely in the hand. MUSCLES MOVING THE SHOULDER. Upward and bachvard. Downward and forward. Trapezius. Serratus magnus. Levator scapulae. Pectoralis minor. Rhomboideus minor. Subclavius. Rhomboidcus major. All of these muscles arise from the trunk, excepting one, which has its origin in the neck. All are inserted into the skeleton of the shoulder. Trapezius (Figs. 263, 264).—So called from the resemblance which it with its mate bears to a four-sided table (Greek trajjeza, " a table "). Synonym, cucullaris, Fig. 263.—Muscles in the superficial layer of the back. (Testut.) from the likeness of the pair to a monk's hood (Latin cucuUus). Situation, super- ficial, on the dorsal aspect from the occiput to the base of the thorax, and lat-THE MUSCLES. 254 erally to the peak of the shoulder ; also, at the side of the neck, and the top and front of the shoulder. Origin, tlie inner third of the superior curved line and the protuberance of the occipital bone, the ligamcntum nuchfe, the spines of the last cervical and all of the thoracic vertebrje, and their supraspinous ligament. Direction of fibres, convergent: the upper, down-, out-, and forward ; the middle, outward ; tlie lower, up- and outward. Insertion, the outer third of the hind border of the clavicle, the inner border of the acromion, the upper bor- der of the scapular spine, the tubercle near its inner end. Action: the upper Fig. 264.—Trapezius of right side : outline and Fig. 265.—Muscles in the second layer of the back attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) and on the dorsum of the shoulder. (Testut.) part raises the shoulder, the middle draws the shoulder toward the spine, the lower pulls the scapula down- and inward, and tilts the acromion upward. All together lift the shoulder and rotate the lower angle of the scapula outward. Nerves, the spinal accessory, and the third and fourth cervical. Levator Scapulae (Figs. 265, 266).—" The lifter of the scapula." Synonym, levator anguli scapulte, " the lifter of the angle of the scapula." Situation, on the side of the neck from the vertebrae to the upper scapular angle. Origin, the hind255. BHOMBOIDEUS 3IAJ0R. tubercles of the transverse processes of the upper foiu- or five cervical vertebra. Direction, down-, out-, and backward. Insert ion, the vertebral border of the scapula from the upper angle to the root of the spine. Action : it lifts the upper angle of the scapula and depresses the tip of the slioulder. Nerves, tlie tliird, fourth, and fifth cervical. Eliomboidens Minor (Figs. 265, 267).—'^Tlic smaller rhomb-shaped muscle." Situation, in th(' back, Ibetweeu the spinal column and the scapula. Orir/in, the Fig. 2GG.—Levator scapuke of right side, rear view : Fig. 207.—Rhomboideus minor and rhomboideiis ontline and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) major of right side : outline and attacliment-areas. lower part of the nape ligament, the spines of the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebrte. Direction, down- and outward. Insertion, the vertebral bor- der of the scapula at the root of its spine. Action : it draws the scapula up- and inward, and de])resses the tip of the shoulder by rotating the scapula. Nerve, the fifth cervical. This muscle is often united with the following : Rhomboideus Major (Figs. 265, 267).—"The larger rhomb-shaped muscle." Situtttion, in the back, between the spinal column and the scapula. Origin, the spinous processes of the upper four or five thoracic vertebrte and the correspond- ing supraspinous ligament. Direction, down- and outward. Insertion, the ver-256 THE MUSCLES. tebral border of the scapula, between the root of the spine and the lower angle. Action : it draws tlie scapula up- and inward. Nerve, the fifth cervical. Serratus Magnus (Fig. 268).—" The great saw-toothed muscle." Synonym, serratus anterior. Situation, on the upper two-thirds of the side of the chest. Origin, by digitations from the outer surface of the upper eight or nine ribs, Fig. 268.—Serratus magiius of right side. The scapula has been turned backward and drawn outward. (Modified from Testut.) several inches from their front ends. Direction, up- and backward. Insertion, the front of the vertebral l^order of the scajjula, and the snrfaces at the upper and lower angles. Tlie first digitation, which comes from the second, as well as from the first rib, runs to the surface at the upper angle ; the second and third digitations connect the corresponding ribs with the vertebral border from near the upper to near the lower angle ; the rest of the slips converge to the sitrface at the lower angle. Action : it draws the shoulder forward, as in pushing; the lower segment rotates the apex of the scapula upward. Ner'-c, the posterior thoracic. The lower five points of origin interlock with similar slips of the obliquus externus abdominis. Pectoralis Minor (Fig. 260, 270).—"The smaller breast-muscle." Situation, m the front of the chest. Origin, the outer surfaces of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, near their cartilages. Direction, up- and outward. Insertion, the coracoid process of the scapula. Action: it di'aws the shoulder down- and forward. Nerve, the internal anterior thoracic.SUBCLA VIUS. 257 Subclavius (Fig. 269).—" The under-the-claviclo muscle." Situation, iiidi- FiG. 269.—Pectoralis minor of right side. (Testut.) cated by its name. Origin, the first rib and its cartilage, at their junction. Direc- tion, out- and upward. Insertion, the groove in the under surface of the clavicle. Fig. 270.—Pectoralis minor of right side : outline and uttaehraent-ureas. (F. H. G.) Action : it draws the shoulder down- and forward. Nerve, from the fifth and sixth cervical. 17258 THE MUSCLES. MUSCLES MOVING THE ARM. Abductors. Deltoideus. Supraspinatus. Addvctors. major. 1 Pectoral! Coraco-brachialis. j Latissimus. ] Teres major, j also flexors. ■ also extensors. Outivard Rotators. Inward Rotator. Infraspinatus. . Subscapularis. Teres minor. The largest two of these muscles arise mostly from the trunk, and in some part from the shoulder ; but the majority arise wholly from the shoulder. All of them are inserted into the humerus in its upper half. Deltoideus (Figs. 271,272, 289).—"The delta-like muscle "—" delta " being the name of a Gi'eek letter of triangular shape. It is commonly Anglicized into " deltoid." Situation, between the most prominent parts of the shoulder and the middle of the outside of the arm. Origin, the front of the outer third of the clavicle, the outer border of tlie acromion, and the lower border of the spine ofDELTOIDEUS. 259 the scapula—corresponding closely with the insertion of the trapezius. iJirrctkm, from the clavicle and the scapular spine down- and outward, from tlie acromion Firj. 272.—Deltoidcns of right side, viewed from above : outline and attachment-areas. (F. TI. O.) downward—all parts converging. Insertion, the deltoid eminence (or impression) of the humerus. Action : it abducts the arm, lifting it to the horizontal. The Fig. 273.—Supaspinatus of ri^lit side, viewed from above : outline and attaehment-aroas. fF. H. G ) clavicular portion acting alone draws the arm forward ; that from the scapular spine by itself carries the arm backward. The arm, being raised as far as the Fin. 274.—Pcctoralis major of right side : outline and attaehment-areas. (F. H. G.) deltoid can affect it, is elevated to the perpendicular by the trapezius, the two muscles being almost continuous in structure—practically one muscle with an osseous inscription. Nerve, the circumflex.THE MUSCLES. 260 Supraspinatus (Figs. 273, 278).—" The muscle above the s])inc" of the scapula. Situation, in the sujiraspiuous fossa and above the head of the humerus. Origiv, inner two-thirds of supraspinous fossa. Direction, outward beneath acro- mion. Insertion, uppermost facet of great tuberosity of humerus. Actirm, abduc- tion of the arm. A^erve, the suprascapular. Pectoralis Major (Figs. 271, 274).—" Tlie greater l)reast-muscle." Situation, in the upper, anterior part of the chest, and in front of the axilla. Origin, the sternal half of the anterior surface of the clavicle, th(> anterior surface of the sternum (except the ap]:)endix), the cartilages of the upper six ribs. Direction : of Fill. 275. — Coraco-brachialis of Fig. 27G.—Muscles in the superficial layer of the back. (Testut.) right side: outline and attachment- areas. (F. H. G.) the clavicular portion (which is separate at its origin) down- and outward ; of the central, outward ; of the lower, out- and upward—all jxvrts converging to one broad tendon, which twists on it.self, the lower fibres passing behind and becoming uppermost. Insertion, the external bicipital ridge of the humerus. Action : it draws the arm inward and forward, and rotates it inward. Nerves, the internal and external anterior thoracic. Coraco-brachialis (Figs. 275, 283, 285).—" The coracoid (process)- arm mus- cle "—the name being derived from the parts connected. Situation, in the innerTERES MINOB. 261 side of the upper half of the arni. Direction, downward and plii^htly humerus at tl)e niidcUe of tlie sliaft. Action, adduction and flexion of the arm. Nerve, the musculo- cutaneous. Latissimus (Figs. 276, 277). —" The broadest muscle "—from the Latin /afit.s, " broad." Sijnu- nym, latissimus dorsi, " the broad- est of the back." Situation, in the back, from the lower half of the spine to the upper part of the arm. Origin, the spines of six or seven lower thoracic vertebra?, and, through the lumbar fascia, the splines of the lumbar and sac- ral, and the back of the outer lip of the iliac crest, the last three or four ribs, and often the lower angle of the scapula. Direction, upward, outward, and forward, converging to the insertion, the tendon twisting from above down- ward and backward, so that its front is continuous with the back of the muscle. Insertion, the floor of the bicipital groove. tion, adduction, extension, rotation inward. Nerve, the long subscapular. The costal points of origin interlock with those of the obliquus exteriuis abdominis. Teres Major (Figs. 278, 27!»).— " The greater round muscle." Situation, between scapula and upper end of arm, in hind wall of armpit. Origin, the oval sur- face on the back of the scapula at its lower angle. Direction, up-, out-, and forward. Insertion, the inner bicipital ridge. Action, adduction, extension, and inward rotation of arm. Nerve, the lower subscapular. Infraspinatus (Figs. 278, 280). —" The muscle below the spine " of the scapula. Situation, in the infraspinous fossa and behind the Iiead of the humerus. Origin, the inner two-thirds of the infi'a- spinous fossa. Direction, outward. Insertion, the middle facet of the great tuberosity of the humerus. Action, external rotation of the arm. Nerve, the suprasca])ular. Teres Minor (Figs. 278-281).- Origiii, the coracoid process of the scajnila. outward. Insertion, the inner border of the Ac- and Fig. 277. meut-aryas. —Latissimus of right side: {F. H. G.) outline and attach- The smaller rount luscle. Situettion, between the scapula and the upper end of the arm, in the hind wall of the arm-THE MUSCLES. 262 Fig. 278.—Muscles of the dorsum of the scapuln, right side. (Testut.)263 3IUSCLES 3I0VING THE WHOLE FOREAHM. pit. Origin, the dorsum of the scapula, aloug its axillary Ijorder. Direct ion, upward and outward. Insertion, the lowest facet on the great tuberosity of the humerus. Action, external rotation of the humerus. Nerve, the circumflex. Subscapularis (Figs. 282, 283).—"The muscle under the scapula"—though it is beneath tlie bone only when the body is prone. Situation, in front of the scapula and the head of the humerus. Origin, the greater part of the venter of the scapula. Direction, outward and forward. Insertion, the small tuberosity of the humerus. Action, inward rotation of the humerus. Neri^cs, the upper and lower subscaj^ular. MUSCLES MOVING THE WHOLE FOREARM. Flexors. U.densors. Biceps flexor cubiti. Triceps extensor cubiti. Brachialis. Anconeus. Brachio-radialis. One of these muscles arises from the scapula, one from the scapula and humerus, and three from the humerus alone. AH are inserted into the skeleton of the forearm. Fig. 283.—Muscles of the front of the risht shoulder Fig. 284.-Bic.eps flexor cubiti of right side: and arm. (Testut.) outline and attachment-areas. (F. H. tr.) Biceps Flexor Cubiti (Figs. 283, 284).—"The two-headed flexor of the fore-264 THE MUSCLES. arm." Sifnation, in the front of the arm. Orir/in, the scapula—the long head : the upper border of the glenoid fossa ; the short head : the coracoid process. Direction, the long head : over the caput humeri, through the shf)ulder-joint, in the bicipital groove, and down to the forearm ; the short head unites with the long about one-fourth way down the arm. Insertion, the main tendon to the hind part of the radial tuberosity; a secondary tendon (called also the semi- lunar or bicipital fascia) passes obliquely inward, and ends in the deep fascia of the forearm over the pronator teres. Action, flexion of forearm. If the hand is pronated, the biceps supinates it. The second tendon of insertion tightens the forearm fascia. Nerve, the musculo-cutaneous. The synovial membrane of the shoulder-joint is prolonged downward, and invests the tendon of the long head. Brachialis (Figs. 285, 286).—" The muscle of the arm." Synonyms, brachi- als anterior, brachialis anticus, " the front muscle of the arm." Situation, in the Fig. 285.—Muscles of the right arm, front view, the biceps having been removed. (Testut.) Fig. 286.—Brachialis of right side: outline and attachment- areas. (F. H. G.) front of the arm. Origin, the lower half of the front of the humerus. _ Direc- tion, downward to the forearm. Insertion, the inner part of the coi'onoid proc-265 TBIGEPS EXTENSOR CUBITI. ess of the ulna. Action, flexion of the forearm. Nerves, the musculo-cutane- ous and (slightly) tlie miisculo-spiral. Brachio-radialis (Figs. 287, 288, 303).—" The arm-radius muscle," from its attachments. Synoyiym, supinator longus, " the long supinator." Situation, the outer and front part of the lower fourth of the arm and of the whole forearm. Fig. 287.—Superficial muscles of front of right forearm. (Testut.) Origin, the upper two-thirds of the external condylar ridge of the humerus. Direction, downward. Insertion, the base of the styloid process of the radius. Action, mostly flexion of the forearm ; but, when the hand is prone, this muscle is capable of nearly half-supinating it; after strong supination, tlic muscle will par- tially effect ])ronation. Nerve, the musculo-spiral. Triceps Extensor Cubiti (Figs. 289-291).—" The three-headed extensor of the forearm." Situation, in the back of the arm. Origin, the long (middle) head : below the glenoid fossa of the scapula on the neck and upper part of the axillary border ; the external head : the hind sui-face of the humerus above the musculo- spiral groove ; the internal (deep) head : tlie hind surface of the humerus belowTHE MUSCLES. 266 the musculo-spiral groove. Direction, downward, all the heads uniting in a common tendon. Insertion, the tuberosity of the olecranon process of the ulna. Action, extension of forearm. Nerve, the musculo-spiral. Anconeus (Figs. 289, 292, 310).—"The elbow muscle." Situation, at the back and outer side of the elbow-joint, mostly in the forearm. Origin, the hind - Fif?. 290.—Triceps extensor cubiti of Fig. 289.—Muscles on the dorsum of the riglit slioulder and arm. right side: part of the scapular head has (Testut.) been removed and shows in outline. (Testut.) part of the external condyle of the humerus. Direction, obliquely downward. Insertion, the outer side of the olecranon process, and the upper fourth of the back of the shaft of the ulna, ylc^io?!, extension of forearm. Nerve, the musculo- spiral. The anconeus is a continuation of the triceps, and is sometimes described as the fourth head of tiie latter, thus converting it into a quadriceps, or four- headed muscle. MUSCLES MOVING THE OUTER PART OF THE FOREARM. Pronators. Supinator. Pronator teres. Supinator. Pronator quadratus. Of the pronators one arises from the humerus and ulna, the other from the ulna only. The supinator arises from the humerus and ulna. All are insertedPR ONA TOM Q UA DBA TUS. 207 into the radius, which alone of the forearm bones is moved in pronation and supination. Pronator Teres (Figs. 287, 293).—" The round pronator." KduAition, in the front of the forearm. Origm, the superficial head : the inner condyle of the humerus and a small part of the ridge above it; the deep-head : the inner border of the coronoid process of the ulna. Direction, out- and downward. Insertion, the middle of the outer surface of the radius. Action, pronation Fig. 291.—Triceps extensor cubiti of right side: out- Fig. 292.—Anconeus of right side: outline line and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) of the hand by moving the radius to which the hand is articulated ; also sliglit flexion of the forearm. Nerve, the median. Pronator Quadratus (Figs. 294, 318).—" The square pronator." Situation, in the lower quarter of the front of the forearm, close to the bones. Origin, theTHE MUSCLES. 268 inner part of tlie lower fonrth of the front surface of tlie shaft of the ulna. Direction, outward. InsertioH, the lower fonrth of the front of the radius. Action, pronation of radius, and, consequently, of the hand. Nerve, anterior interosseous lirancli of tlie nicdian. Fig. 293.—Pronator tere.s, right side: and attacliment-areas. (F. H. G.) outline Fig. 294.—Pronator quadratus of right side : outline and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) Supinator (Fig. 295).—" The supinator." Synonym, supinator bi'evis, " the short supinator." Situation, deeply in the upper tliird of the outer part of the forearm. Origin, the external condyle of the humerus, the external lateral and orbicular ligaments, the triangular area below the small sigmoid cavity. Direc- tion, out- and downward, Avrapping the upper part of the radius in a sling. Inser- tion, the back of the neck, and the hind and outer surfaces of the shaft of the radius above the oblique line. Action, supination. Nerve, the posterior inter- osseous division of the muscnlo-spiral.269 MUSCLES 310 VING THE WHOLE HAND. MUSCLES MOVING THE WHOLE HAND. Flexors. Extensors. Flexor carpi radialis. [Flexor] pal maris longus. Flexor carpi iiliiaris. Extensor carpi radialis longus. Extensor carpi radialis hrcvis. Extensor carpi ulnaris. OLECRA- NON EXTERNAL CONDYLE HEAD OF RADIUS Fir,. (Testut.) ULNA RAblUS 295.—Supinator of right side. All arise from the humerus, and the flexor and extensor on the ulnar side come from the ulna also. The palmaris longus is inserted into the palmar fascia. All which have " carpi" in their names are in- serted into '/ftrfocarpal bones, and only one of them into any part of the carpus also. Their action, however, is correctly indicated by their names, the wrist, carrying the rest of the hand, being alternately flexed and extended. The second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones have prac- tically no motion on the carpus, and the first and fifth are moved by special muscles. The pal- maris longus, though primarily a tensor of the palmar fascia, secondarily is a flexor of the hand —-just as the tensor vaginse feraoris i,5 first a tightener of the fascia lata, and then an abduc- tor of the thigh—and, therefore, a bracketed word implying this, and aiding the grouping by making a uniformity of name which corresponds with the practical identity of action, has been prefixed. Tlie adduction of the hand is accom- plished by tlie simultaneous action of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the extensor carpi ulnaris ; its abduction by the simultaneous action of the flexor carpi radialis and the extensor carpi radialis longus. Observe that the ccternal part of the lower end of the humerus gives origin to the e.rten- sors, the internal to the flexors. At their origin from the internal condyle and its neighborhood the flexors of the hand ai'e so blended with the pronator teres and the flexor sublimis digitorum as to constitute one mass. On and about the external condyle is a similar association of extensors and supinator. Flexor Carpi Radialis (Figs. 29(3, 297).—" The flexor of the wrist on the radial side." Sitimfion, in the front of the forearm. Orir/in, the inner condyle of the humerus. Direction, downward and a little outward. Insertion, the ba.se of the second metacarpal bone on its palmar aspect. Action, flexion and slight pronation of the hand. In conjunction with the extensor carpi radialis longus it abducts the hand. Nerve, the median. [Flexor] Palmaris Longus (Fig. 296).—"The long palmar [flexor] muscle." Situation, in the front of the forearm. Orir/in, the inner condyle of the humerus. Direction, downward and slightly outward. Insertion, the palmar fascia and anterior annular ligament. Action : it tightens the fiiscia of the palm, and then flexes the hand. Nerve, the median. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris (Figs. 296, 298, 310).—"The flexor of the wrist on the ulnar side." Sitn/ition, in the front and inner border of the forearm. Origin, one head : the inner condyle of the humerus ; the other head : the inner side of the olecranon and the upper two-thirds of the hind border of the ulna. Direction, downward. Insertion, the pisiform, unciform, and fifth metacarpal bones. Action, flexion of the hand. In conjunction with the extensor carpi ulnaris it adducts the hand. Xerve, the ulnar. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longus (Figs. 299, 300).—" The long extensor of the wrist on the radial side." Situation, in the outer border of the forearm. Origin, the lower third of the external condylar ridge of the humerus. Direc-270 THE MUSCLES. tioii, (lowmvard and a little backward. Insertion, the base of the second metacarpal, l^ehind and on the radial side. Action, extension of the hand. In conjnnction with the flexor carpi radialis it abducts the hand. Xenr, the musculo-spiral. Fig. 296.—Superficial muscles Fig. 297.—Flexor carpi radialis Fig. 298.—Flexor carpi ulnaris of front of right forearm, of right side : outline and attach- of right side ; outline and attacli- (Testut.) ment-areas. (F. H. G.) ment-areas. (F. H. G.) Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevis (Figs. 299-301).—" Tlie short extensor of the wrist on the radial side" Situation, the outer border of the forearm. Origin, the outer condyle of the humerus. Direction, down-ward and a little backward. Insertion, the base of the tliird metacarf)al bone, beliind and on the radial side. Action, extension of the hand. Nerve, the posterior interosseus branch of the musculo-spiral. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris (Figs. 302, 310).—"The extensor of the wrist on the ulnar side." Situation, the back of the forearm on the ulnar side. Origin, the271 EXTENSOR CARPI ULNARLS. Fig. 320.—Muscles in radial region of right forearm, and deep muscles in its dorsum. (Testut.)THE MUSCLES. 272 external condyle of the humerus and the middle third of the posterior border (if the ulna. Dircetiov, downward and inward. Insertion, tlie base of the fifth metacarpal bone on its dorsal aspect and ulnar border. Adio-n, extension of the hand. In conjunction with the flexor carpi ulnaris it adduets the hand. Nerve, the posterior interosseous branch of the musculo-spiral. MUSCLES MOVING THE FINGERS and the Fifth Metacarpal Bone. (Those which are situated entirely in the hand are indicated by a star.) Flexors. Extensors. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Extensor communis digitorum. Flexor profundus digitorum. Extensor minimi digiti. *Flexor ossis metacarpi minimi digiti. Extensor indicis. *riexor brevis minimi digiti. ' Ijumbricales.FLEXOR HUBLIMJS niGITOJlUM. 273 Abductom. Addudoi'H. *Interossci dorsales. *Intc'ro.ss('i palmares. *Abductor minimi digiti. Of the livo of these muscles located mainly in tin; forearm two arise from tlie humerus, one from the humerus, radius, and ulna, and two from the; ulna only, l-'.very one in the group is inserted into one or more of the fingers, excei)ting tlie llexor of the fifth ineta(;arpal bone, which is admitted to this company of linger (li'xors on account of the similarity of its action. Flexor Sublimis Digi- torum (Figs. :i03-.'50r)).— i " The sup(,'rficial flex(jr of th(! digits"—meaning the four fingers as distinguish- ed from the thumb. iHi/no- II y III, flexor perforatus, "the perforated flexor" Fig. SOS.—Tendon of flexor sublimis perforated by tendon of flexor profundus. (Testut.) —from the openings through which the ten- dons of the deep flexor pass. Situation, in the front of the forearm and hand, deeper than the flexors of the wliole hand, but superficial to the other flexors. Origin, first head : the inner condyle of the humerus ; second head : the inner border of the coronoid ])rocess of the ulna ; third head: the oblique line and part of the anterior border of the radius. Direction, downward to all of the digits but the thumbs. Imertion, by four tendons, eacli to the sides of a second ])lialanx. As the tendons pass through the annidar ligament, those for the middle and ring-fingers are side by side in front, tlie otiiers behind them. Each tendon 18 Fig. 303.—Flexor sublimis digi torum of right side. (Testut.) Fir;. 304.—Flexor sublimis difjitorum of ri(<ht side: outline and attachment- areas. (F. H. G.)274 THE MUSCLES. is accompanied by a tendon of the flexor profundus, and permits the passage of the latter tiirough a split which occurs opposite the first phalanx. The separated halves become united behind the tendon of the deep flexor, opposite the base of the second phalanx, but almost immediately sepai'ate again, and are inserted into the sides of the second phalanx. The tendons are bound down to the phalanges by a ligamentous sheath. Action, primary, flexion of the second phalanges; secondary, flexion of first phalanges. Nerve, the median. Flexor Profundus Digitorum (Figs. 306-308).—"The deep flexor of the digits" —meaning the fingers as distinguished from the tliumb. Synonym, flexor pcrforans," the perforat- inti' flexor"—from the fact that its four tendons perforate the correspond- FiG. 308.—Tendon of flexor pro- fundus perforating tendon of flexor sublimis. (Testut.) ing tendons of the flexor sublimis. Situation, deeply in the front of the fore- arm and hand. Origin, three-fourths of the inner and anterior surfaces of the ulna, the adjacent half of the interosseous mem- brane, and the common tendon of it and the flexor and extensor carpi ulnaris on the hind border of the ulna. Direction, down- ward. Insertion, each of the four tendons into the front of the liase of a last Fig. 307.—Flexor profundus digitorum phalanx. Each tcudon J ...„.v, j^.i-fQi-jxtes a tendon of the superficial flexor opposite the fii'st phalanx ; each is bound to the first and second phalanges by ligaments which form a sheath common to this and the sublimis tendon. Action, flexion of third phalanges primarily, and, after this, flexion of the second, and, slightly, of the first. Nerves, the ulnar and the anterior interosseous branch of the median. Fig. 306.—Muscles in the right forearm, the deepest layer. (Testut.) of right side areas. (F. H. outline and attachment- G.)FLEXOR BHE VIS MINIMI DIGJTL 21b Flexor Ossis Metacarpi Minimi Digiti (Fig. 309).—" The Hexov of the meta- carpal bone of the least digit"—i. t:, of the little finger. Sijnorri/ins, oppo- nens minimi digiti, and op]>onens digiti quinti, " the ojiposing muscle of tlie least (or fifth) <ligit," so called Irom its drawing the hypothenar eminence toward the thenar, thus narrowing and deepening tiie palm. iSitaatio)i., deep in the hypo- FiG. 309.—Muscles of the right palm. The abductors of the thumb and little finger have been removed. (Testut.) thenar eminence. Oric/in, the unciform jn-ocess and the annular ligament. Direction, downward and toward ulnar margin of the hand. Insertion, the whole of the ulnar side of the fifth metacarpal. Adion, flexion of the fifth metacarpal and slight adduction toward the mid-line of the hand. Nerve, the deep branch of the ulnar. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti (Fig. 309).—" Tlie short flexor of the least digit" —/. e., of the little finger. Syno)ii/m, flexor digiti quinti l)revis, " the short flexorTHE MUSCLES. 276 of the fifth digit." Situation, subciitaneously in the centre of the hypothenar eminence. Orir/i)i, the unciform process and the annular ligament. JJireetion, downward and inward. Insertion, the base of the first phalanx of the little finger on the ulnar border. Aetion, tlexion of the first phalanx of the little finger. Ncrre, the deep branch of the ulnar. Lumbricales (Fig. 309).—" The earth- worm muscles," from fancied resem- blance to angle-worms {Inmhrici). Num- ber, four. Each is a hunbricalis. Situa- tion, in the palm on the plane of the flexor profundus digitorum. Origin of the first and second : the palmar aspect and radial boi'der of the corresponding deep flexor tendon ; of the third and fourth : the two tendons between which Fig 310 -Muscles in the dorsum of the right fore- Fig. 311.—Extensor communis digitorum of arm and hand. (Testut.) right side : outline and attachment-areas. (t.H. G.)277 EXTENSOR C03IMUNIS DIGIT0RU3L each respectively lies. Direction, downward and then liackward, on tlie radial side of the digits. Insertion, each to extensor communis tendon of corresponding finger on the radial side of the tirst phalanx. Action, flexion of the first phalanges, and extension of the second and third phalanges. The first and second slightly abduct the index and middle fingers from the middle line of the hand, the third and fourth slightly adduct the ring and little fingers to that line. Nei^ves, the median for the outer two, the ulnar for the inner two. Extensor Communis Digitorum (Figs. 310-312).—" The common extensor of the digits"—i. e., of the fingers, as distinguished from the thumb. Situation, superficially on the back of the forearm and hand. Origin, the outer condyle of the humerus. Direction, downward. Insertion : each of the four tendons finally divides into three slips op- posite the first phalanx, and the middle one is attached to the back of the base of the second phalanx ; the others, after uniting, are attached to the back of the base of the third phalanx. The first tendon receives the inser- tion of the extensor indicis at the base of the finger ; the fourth tendon unites with Fig. 312.—Relations of the inter- Fig. 313.—Extensor minimi digiti Fig. 314.—Extensor mdicis of osseous and liimbricalmuscles to the of right side: outline and attach- right side: outline and attach- extensor tendons. (Testut.) ment-areas. (Testut.) ment-areas. (F. H. G.) that of the extensor minimi digiti at a similar point. The fourth divides : one part unites with the tendon of the medius, the other with that of the extensor minimi digiti. A strong band connects the tendons of the ring and middle fingers. Action, extension of the fingers. The oblique branches at the sides of the third tendon greatly limit the extension of the ring finger, when its immediate neighbors are278 THE MUSCLES. flexed, and this fact explains the difficulty experienced by pianists in lifting the annularis separately fr(jni the keys. Nerve, the posterior interosseous branch of the musculo-spiral. Extensor Minimi Digiti (Figs. 310-313).—"The extensor of the smallest digit"—/. e,, of the little linger. Synonym, extensor digiti quinti proprius, "the proper extensor of the fifth digit"—" proper " to distinguish it from the part of the extensor communis which acts upon this finger. Situedion, in the back of the forearm and hand. Origin, the external condyle of the humerus. Insertion: its tendon, which is commonly split, blends with the fourth tendon of the extensor communis above the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and the resulting tendon goes t() the second and third phalanges of the little finger (see extensor communis digitorum). Action, extension of the second and third jjhalanges of the little finger. Nerre, posterior interosseous branch of the musculo-spiral. Extensor Indicis (Figs. 299, 314).—" The extensor of the index finger." Syno- /)yn).s', extensor indicis pi'oprius, "the proper extensor of the index finger"— " proper " to distinguish it from the part of the extensor communis which acts upon this digit; the indicator muscle. Situation, the back of the lower part of the forearm and hand. Origin, the back of the ulna below the extensor longus poUicis, and a little of the interosseous membrane. Direction, downward and outward. Insertion, the first tendon of the extensor communis digitorum, near the metacarpo-i)halangeal joint (see extensor communis digitorum). Action, exten- sion and slight adduction of the index. Nerve, the posterior interosseous branch of the musculo-spiral. Interossei Dorsales (Fig. 315).—" The muscles between the bones on the back " X X Fig. 315—Interossei dorsales of right hand. The line x x is that from which abduction is made. (Testut.) of the hand. Number, four. The first and largest is called abductor indicis, "the abductor of the index finger." The abductor minimi digiti belongs func- tionally in this group ; but it is not interosseous. Situation, one in each meta- carpal' interspace near the dorsal aspect. Origin, each from the two bonesABDUCTOR MINIMI DIGIT! 279 between wliich it lies. Direction, downward. Inxcrfimi, eacli into the base of a first plialanx, and also into the extensor tendon of the same finger, the first on the radial side of the index, the second on the radial side of the niedius, the third on the ulnar side of the medius, the fourth on the idnar side of the annularis. Action : each abducts from a line coinciding with the long axis of tlie mitldle finger. This digit, having two interossei inserted into it, is abducted toward the radial side by one, and toward tlie ulnar side by the other; thus, each in turn becomes an adductor, for the finger being abducted by one is then restored to the raid-line {i. e., adducted) by the other. They also flex the first phalanges and extend the second and third. Nerve, the deep branch of the ulnar. Fig. 316.—Muscles of the right palm. The palraarls brevis is reflected tu the ulnar side. (Testut.) Abductor Minimi Digiti (Fig. 316).—" The abductor of the least digit"—/. e., of the little finger. Synonpn, abductor digiti quinti, "the abductor of the fifthTHE 31VSCLES. 280 digit." Situation, the ulnar border of the hand. Origin, the pisiform. Direc- tion, downward. Imertion, the uhiar border of the base of the first phahinx of tlie little fii]ger and the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti. Action, abduction of little finger. Nerve, the ulnar. Its function i)uts it in the group with the interossei dorsales, as it draws its digit from the mid-line of the hand. PIRST PALMAR INTEROSSEOUS THIRD PALMAR INTEROSSEOUS SECOND PALMAR INTEROSSEOUS Fig. 317.—Tnterossei palmares of right hand. The line x xis that to which adduction is made. (Testut.) Interossei Palmares (Fig. 317).—"The muscles between the bones in the palm." Synonjim, interossei volares. Number, three. Situation, in the second, third, and fourth metacarpal interspaces, near the palmar surfaces of the bones. (>ri(jin, the first: ulnar side of second metacarpal; the second : radial side of fourth metacarpal; the third : the radial side of the fifth metacarpal. Direction, downward. Insertion, each into the side of the base of the first phalanx of the digit from whose metacarpal bone it arises, and also into the corresponding ex- tensor tendon. Action, each adducts its digit toward the middle finger ; also, it Hexes the-first phalanx of its digit, and extends the second and third phalanges. Nerve, the deep branch of the ulnar. MUSCLES MOVING THE THUMB and its Metacarpal Bone. (Those entirely in the hand are indicated with a star.) Flexors. *Flexor ossis metacai-pi pollicis. *Flexor brevis pollicis. Flexor longus pollicis. Abductor. * Abductor pollicis. Extensors. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Extensor brevis pollicis. Extensor longus pollicis. Adductor. *Adductor pollicis. li281 MUSCLES MOVING THE THUMB. The movements of the first metacarpal bone are so closely associated with those of the phalanges whicli it carries, that it is profitable to consider its special muscles in the group with those of the thumb. The longer name of the meta- carpal flexor is preferred as indicating its action as well as " opponens pollicis," and at the same time expressing much more clearly the antagonism between it and the metacarpal extensor. Flexor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis (Figs. 318, 309).—" The flexor of the meta- carjml bone of the thumb." Synonym, opponens pollicis, " the opponent muscle of the thumb "—referring to its action in opposing the thenar eminence to the hypothenar, so that the palmar hollow is deepened and narrowed, and a body Fig. 318.—Adductor pollicis, flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and pronator quadratus. (Testut.) between these muscular mounds can be grasped by them. Situation, deep in the thenar eminence. Origin, the palmar aspect of the trapezium and annular liga-282 THE MUSCLES. thumb ; inner head ment. Direction, downward and outward. Insertion, the whole shaft of the metacarjial bone of the thumb on its radial side and anterior aspect. Action, flex- ion and inward rotation of the first metacarpal bone. Nerve, the median. Flexor Brevis Pollicis (Fig. 309).—" The short flexor of the thumb." Situation, deep in thenar eminence. Origin, outer (superficial) head : the trapezium and the outer two-thirds of the annular ligament ; inner (deep) head : the proximal ]iart of the first metacarpal on the ulnar side. Direction, downward and outward. Insertion, outer head : the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the the inner side of the same. In each tendon of insertion is a sesamoid bone. Action, flexion of the first phalanx of the thumb. Nerves, outer head : the median ; inner head : the ulnar. Flexor Longus Pollicis (Figs. 306, 319).— " The long flexor of the thumb." Situation, deep in the front part of the forearm, and on the pal- mar aspect of the thumb. Origin, the anterior surface of the radius from the oblique line to the upper line of the pronator quadratus, the adjacent part of the interosseous membrane, and sometimes the base of the coronoid process of the ulna. Direction, downward to the wrist, then downward and outward. Insertio7i, the front of the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. Action, flexion of the last phalanx of the thumb. Nerve, the ante- rior interosseous branch of the median. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis (Figs. 320, 321).—" The extensor of the metacarpal bone of the thumb." Synonym, abductor longus pol- licis, " the long abductor of the thumb." Situa- tion, deep in the lower two-thirds of the back of the forearm and in the radial side of the wrist. Origin, small areas beh^w attachments of supi- nator on both radius and ulna, and the inter- osseous membrane between these surfaces. Di- rection, downward and outward. Insertion, the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Ac- tion, extension and abduction of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Nerve, posterior interosseous branch of the nuisculo-sjiiral. Extensor Brevis Pollicis (Figs. 320, 322).— " The short extensor of the thumb." Synonym, extensor primi internodii pollicis, " the extensor of the first phalanx of the thumb." Situation, deep in the lower half of the back of the fore- arm on the outer side, and in the metacarpus. Origin, a small area of the radius, just below the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and the ad- jacent portion of the interosseous membrane. Direction, downward and outward. Insertion, the back of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Action, extension of the thumb. Nerve, the posterior interosseous branch of the musculo- spiral. Extensor Longus Pollicis (Figs. 320, 323).— " The long extensor of the thumb." Synonyv}, extensor secundi internodii pol- licis, " the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb." Situation, deep in the lower half of the back of forearm and in the thumb. Origin, the middle third of Fig. 319—Flexor longus pollicis of right side : outline and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.)283 EXTENSOR LONG US POLLICIS. Fig. 320.—Muscles in radial region of right forearm, and deep muscles in its dorsum. (Testut.)284 THE MUSCLES. the hind surface of the ulna, below the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and the neighboring part of the interosseous membrane. Direction, downward and outward. Inscrtiov, the back of the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. Action, extension of the last phalanx of the thumb. Nerve, the postei'ior inter- osseous branch of the musculo-spiral. Abductor Pollicis (Fig. 316).—"The abductor of the thumb." Synonym, abductor pollicis l>revis, " the short abductor of the thumb." Situation, super- ficial, on radial side of metacarpal bone of the thumb. Origin, the front of the annular ligament, and, to a slight extent, the trapezium and scaphoid. Direction, downward and outward. Insertion, the base of the first phalanx of the thumb on the outer side. Action, abduction of thumb. Nerve, the median. Fig 3''1 -Extensor ossis meta- Fig. 322.—Extensor brevis pol- Fig. 323.-Extensor longus pol- oarpi pollicis of rifjht side : outline licis of right side : outline and at- hcis ol right side: outline and al- and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) tachment-areas. (F. H. G.) tachment-areas. (F. H. G.) Adductor Pollicis (Fig. 318).—" The adductor of the thumb." Situation, deep in the outer half the palm. Origin, one head : the os magnum, the bases of the second and third metacarpals, and the annular ligament; the other head: the lower two-thirds of the third metacarpal. Direction, the upper part : downward and outward ; the lower part: outward. Insertion, the inner side of the base ofPALM ARTS B RE VIS. 285 the first phalanx of the thumb. Action, adduction and flexion of thumb. Nerve, the uhiar.—The upper portion of this muscle is often described as adductor ohliejiujs poUicif!, and the lower as adductor transversus jMUici-s. The interossei, the abductor and adductor pollicis, and the abductor niinimi digiti may well be considered together as constituting a distinct physiological group, the members of which are concerned either in abduction or adduction, or both (Fig. 324). Each of the five digits has attached to the base of its first Fig. 324.—Diagram showing the arrangement of the adductors and abductors of the digits of tlie hand. (F. H. G.) phalanx two of these ten muscles, one upon the radial, the other upon the ulnar side. The thumb has the abductor and adductor pollicis; the forefinger has the first dorsal interosseous (abductor indicis) and the first palmar interosseous (the adductor of the index); the ring finger has the second palmar interosseous (the adductor of the annularis) and the fourth dorscd interosseous (the abductor of the annularis) ; the little finger has the third jxdmar interosseoiis (the adductor of the least digit) and the abductor minimi digiti. The lateral opponent muscles of the middle finger are the second and third dorsal interosseous—the one drawing the digit from the middle line toward the radial side, the other drawing it from the middle line toward the ulnar side—that is, both are abductors. But, the finger being displaced laterally by one of these muscles, is restored to the middle line by the action of the other ; and thus it is seen that the second and third dorsal interosseous are, on occasion, adductors as well as abductors. One other muscle must be described, altliouuh it is so diminutive and nearly powerless that it does not deserve a place in any of the specified groups. Palmaris Brevis (Fig. 316.)—"The short palmar muscle." Si'tuafion, subcutaneous at the proximal part of the palm. Origin, the inner border of the palmar fascia and the middleTHE 3IUSCLES. 286 of the annular ligament. Direction, inward. Insertion, the skin at the inner border of the palm. Action, wrinkling the skin of the hypothenar eminence and slightly deepening the hol- low of the palm. Nerve, the ulnar. Altliough the classification of the muscles of the upper limb which has been given is regarded as the most helpful to the learner and to the practitioner, it is desirable that they should be studied from other points of view also; and, there- fore, a regional classification is herewith presented, based upon the situation of the main portion of each of these structures. Muscles which Move the Upi'er Limb, Grouped according to their Location. //( the Superficial Layer of the Back of the Trunk. Trapezius. Latissimus. L} tlte Second Layer of the Back of the Trunk. Levator scapulae. Rhomboideus minor. Rhoniboideus major. Pectoralis major. Supraspinatus. Teres major. On the. Front of the Chest. Pectoralis minor. Subclavius. On the Side of the Chest. Serratus magnus. In the Back Part of the Shoulder. Infraspinatus. Teres minor. Subscapularis. In the Older Part of the Shoulder. Deltoideus. In the Inner Side of the Arm. Coraco-brachialis. In the Front Part of the Arm. Biceps flexor cubiti. Brachialis. In the Back Part of tlie Arm. Triceps extensor cul)iti. In the Front Part of the Forearm. Pronator teres. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Flexor carpi radialis. Flexor sublimis digitorum. [Flexor] paUnaris longus. Flexor profundus digitorum. Pronator quadratus. In the Older Part of the Forearm. Brachio-radialis. Extensor carpi radialis longus. Extensor carpi radialis brevis.287 THE MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. In the Baek Part of the Forearm. Anconeus. Extensor ossis metaearpi pollicis. Extensor communis digitorum. Extensor brevis pollicis. Extensor minimi digiti. Extensor longus pollicis. Extensor carpi nlnaris. Extensor indicis. Supinator. In the Thenar Eminence. Abductor ])ollicis. Flexor brevis pollicis. Flexor ossis metaearpi pollicis. Adductor pollicis. In the Hypothenar Eminence. Abductor minimi digiti. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Flexor ossis metaearpi minimi Palmaris brevis. digiti. In the Palm of the Hand between the Eminences. Lumbricales. Interossei palmares. Interossei dorsales. The student is advised to make other classifications of the muscles moving the limbs, in order to obtain as complete a practical knowledge of them as pos- sible. For example, let him group the muscles according to the jmrts which they connect, under some such headings as the following : Connecting the head, neck, and (or) trunk with the shoulder. Connecting the trunk with the arm. Connecting the shoulder with the arm. Connecting the shoulder with the forearm. Connecting the arm with the forearm. Connecting the bones of the forearm. Connecting the arm with the hand. Connecting the forearm with the hand. Connecting the parts of the hand with each other. Again, let him enumerate the muscles which would be cut by plane sections made transversely through the limb at ditferent levels, as, for example, at the mid- dle of the arm, in the lower third of the arm, in the upper quarter of the fore- arm, and so on. The more ways he adopts for considering the subject, the more exact, permanent, and usable will be his knowledge. THE MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. In making a physiological classification of the muscles of the lower limb, we notice at the outset that there is a great ditferencc between the mobility of the first segment of the upper limb and that of its homologue in the lower : the shoulder is freely movable, the hip is almost immovably fixed. There is no group of muscles devoted to moving the pelvic girdle at all comparable with those concerned in the movements of the shoulder. The great muscles of the abdominal wall lift the front of the pelvis ; but this is accompanied to no appre- ciable extent by movement of the hip-bones at their articulations with the sac- rum, but by the curving of the vertebral column. The very inconstant psoas parvus is sometimes asserted to flex the pelvis ; but this may well be questioned,THE MUSCLES. 288 Gemellus inferior. and the muscle, which is frequently absent, probably has no effect except in tight- ening the iliac fascia. No group of muscles, therefore, will be presented as acting upon the hip. Movements of the TMgh.—Tlie ball-and-socket joint at the hi]i permits move- ment of the tliigh in every direction. That forward is called ffc.rion, backward is extension, outward is (ibductio)i, inward is (ickJaction. Rotation and circumduc- tion are like the same movements in the upper extremity. Movements of the Leg.—At the knee the joint is a hinge, and the movements of the leg are forward, which is extension, and backward, which is flexion. Between the two long bones of the leg there is no movement comjjarable with the pronation and supination of the radius. Movements of the Foot.—At the ankle is another hinge with movement of the foot forward (upward), which is flexion, and backward (downward), which is extension. The lateral movements of the foot are chiefly at the astragalo-calcanean and the medio-tarsal articulations. Movements of the Digits.—The metatarso-phalangeal and iuterphalangeal articulations are almost identical with their homologues in the hand, the main ditference being that the first metatarsal is like all of its fellows in its practical immobility, and thus the hallux has nothing like the capacity of the poUex— there is no power of grasping in the sole as there is in the palm. Motion of the toes forward (upward) is extension, in the opposite direction is flexion. Thus, we see that the series of forward movements presents alternately flexion and extension —of the thigh flexion, of the leg extension, of the foot flexion, of the toes exten- sion ; and the backward movements are alternately, beginning with the thigh, extension and flexion. In the upper extremity the forward movements, it will be remembered, are all flexion. The movements of the toes sidewise ai'e abduc- tion and adduction with reference to a line running through the normal long axis of the second digit of the foot, and not the third, as it is in the hand. Classification of the Muscles of the Lower Limb on the Basis OF their Principal Action. Flexors. Psoas magnus. Iliacus. Moving the Thigh. Extensor. Gluteus maximus. Abductors. Tensor vaginae femoris. Gluteus medius. Gluteus minimus. Adductors. Adductor magnus. Adductor longus. Adductor brevis. Adductor gracilis. Pectineus. Internal Rotators. (The same as the abductors.) External Rotators. Obturator externus. Quadratus femoris. Pyriformis. Gemellus superior. Obturator internus.289 MUSCLES MOVING THE THIGH. Flexors. Sartorius. Biceps flexor cruris. Semitendinosus. Semimembranosus. Popliteus. Moving the Leg. Extensor. Quadriceps extensor cruris, comprising Rectus femoris. Vastus externus. Vastus interiius. Vastus intermedius. Flexors. Tibialis anterior. Peroneus tertius. Moving the Foot. Extensors. Tibialis posterior. Gastrocnemius. Soleus. Plantaris. Peroneus longus. Peroneus brevis. Moving the Digits of the Foot. (Those situated entirely in the foot are indicated by a star.) Flexors. Flexor longus hallucis. *Flexor brevis hallucis. Flexor longus digitorum. *Flexor accessorius. *Flexor brevis digitorum. *Flexor brevis minimi digiti. *Lumbricales. Abductors. *Abductor hallucis. * Abductor minimi digiti. *Interossei dorsales. Extensors. Extensor proprius hallucis. Extensor longus digitorum. *Extensor brevis digitorum. Adductors. *Adductor obliquus hallucis. *Adductor transversus hallucis. *Interossei plantares. MUSCLES MOVING THE THIGH. Flexors. Psoas magnus. Iliacus. Abductors and Internal Rotators. Tensor vaginte femoris. Gluteus medius. Gluteus minimus. Extensor. Gluteus maximus. AfJductors. Adductor magnus. Adductor longus. Adductor brevis. Adductor gracilis. Pectineus. Obturator externus. Quadratus femoris. Pyriformis. 19 External Rotoiors. Gemellus superior. Obturator intcrnus. Gemellus inferior.THE MUSCLES. 290 The flexors of the thigh arise partly from the luinhar vertebrae, partly from the inner surface of the false pelvis, and are inserted u])on the small trochanter. The great exfen.sor arises from the back part of the hip-bone, sacrum, and coccyx, and is inserted into the small trochanter and the fascia lata. The abductors, which are also internal rotators, arise from the outer aspect of the hiji-bone, and are inserted into the great trochanter and the neighboring fascia lata. The adductors arise from the hip-bone near the middle line of the body, and four of the five pass outward and d(.)wnward with vaiying degrees of oljliquity to their insertion into the back part of the shaft of the femur, the fifth one going below the knee-joint to the upper part of the tibial shaft. They are to a con- siderable extent external rotators. The external rotators arise jiartly from the inside and partly from the outside of the bony pelvis, and are all inserted about the upper end of the femur. Psoas Magnus (Figs. 325, 326).—" The great loin muscle." Hynotvym, psoas major. Situation, in the hind wall of the abdomen and upper part of the thigh. Origin, the front of the transvei'se processes and side of bodies of lumbar vertebrse Fig. 325.—Psoas, iliacus, and obturator extcrnus muscles. (Testut.) and side of body of the last thoracic, with included intervertebral cartilages. Direction, down- and forward, and finally down- and backward. Tnsertiov, theGLUTEUS MAXIM US. 291 small trochanter of the femur. Action, flexion of the thigh. Nerves, the second and third lumbar. Iliacus (Figs. 325, 327).—"The iliac muscle." Synonym, iliacus internus, " the internal iliac muscle." Situation, in iliac fossa and upper part of tliigh. Origin, the upper two-thirds of the iliac fossa and the ala of the sacrum. Direc- FiG. 326.—Psoas raagnus of right side : outline and Fio. 327.—Iliacus of right side: outline and attacli- attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) ment-areas. (F. H. G.) tion, down- and inward. Insertion, the tendon of the psoas magnus, the front of the small trochanter and the small surface below it. Action, flexion of the thigh. Nerve, the anterior crural. The two preceding muscles—psoas and iliacus—are sometimes treated as one muscle, called ilio-psoas. Gluteus Maximus (Figs. 328, 329).—" The largest muscle of the Inittock." Situation, subcutaneous in the back of the hip and upper part of the thigh. Origin, the hind fourth of the iliac crest, the outer surface of the ilium between the crest and the superior gluteal line, the hind surface of the lower two seg- ments of the sacrum and upper three of the coccyx, the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and the aponeurosis of the erector spinae. Direction, down- and outward. Insertion, the lower half to the gluteal ridge of the femur, the upper to the fascia lata. Action, extension and external rotation of the thigh. Nerve, the inferior gluteal.292 THE MUSCLES. Fig. 328.—Gluteus maximus of right side. (Testut.) Fig. 329.—Gluteus maximus of right side: outline and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) Tensor Vaginae Femoris (Figs. 330, 348).—"The tightener of the sheath of the thigh." Synonym, tensor fascise latse, " the tightener of the broad fascia." Situation, in the front part of the outer aspect of the hip and thigh. Origin, the outer surface of the front part of tlie crest of the ilium. Direction, down- ward and sJightly backward. Inser- tion, the fascia lata several inches below the great trochanter. Action, tighten- ing of the fascia lata, abduction and inward rotation of thigh. A^ei-ve, the superior gluteal. Gluteus Medius (Figs. 331, 332).— " The middle buttock-muscle." Situn- tion, in the outer part of the hip from the iliac crest to the trochanter major. Origin, the external surface of the ilium between the crest and the supe- rior and middle gluteal lines. Direc- tion, downward. Insertion, the outer surface of the trochanter major. Ac- tion, abduction of the tliigh, and, when the thigh is flexed, inward rotation. Nerve, the superior gluteal. Gluteus Minimus (Figs. 333, 334).— " The smallest buttock-muscle." Situa- outi!;;e-|:!^ilS=^S?Ss^TH.^ir'''"'" t>on, m the outer part of the hip, from the front part of the crest to the great trochanter. Origin, the external surflice of the ilium, between the middle and293 GLUTEUS 3IINI3IUS. Fig. 333—Gluteus minimus ul-liKht side. (Testut.) Fig. 334.—Gluteus minimus of risht side: outline and attachment- areas. (F. H. G.) inferior gluteal lines. Direction, down- and outward. Insertion, the front of the great trochanter. Action, al)duction of the thigh, when it is extended ; inward rotation, when it is flexed. Nerve, the superior gluteal.THE ifUSCLES. 294 Fig, 335,—Adductores magmis and brevis of right side. (Testut.) Adductor Magnus (Figs. 335,336, 353).—" The great ndductor." iSituation, in the inner side of the thigh. Origin, the ramus of the os pubis, the ramus and tulierosity of the ischium. Direc- tion, from the iscliial tul)erosity downward ; from the pubic body outward, from the intermediate parts ol)liquely downward and outward. Inser- tion, the gluteal ridge, tlie inner lip of the linea aspera, the internal supracondylar ridge and the adductor tubercle. The femoral attachment is broken by several arches. Action, adduction and external rotation of thigh. The part from the ischial tuberosity is extensor. Nerves, the obtu- I'ator and the great sciatic. Adductor Longus (Figs. 337, 338).—"The long adductor." Situation, in the iimer side of the thigh. Origin, the body of the os pubis near the angle. Direction, down-, out-, and backward. Insertion, the inner lip of the linea aspera about the middle third side (F. H, Fig. 33fi Adductor nuignus of right outline and attachment-areas, G.)295 ADDUCTOR LONG US. in front, after removal of the rectus and sartorius. and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) Tig. 337.—Muscles in the right thigh, viewed from (Testut.) Fig. 338.—Adductor longus of right side ; outlineTHE MUSCLES. 296 and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) Fig. 339.—Adductor brevis of right side : outline Fig. 340.—Adductor gracilis of right side : outlinePECTINEUS. 297 of the thigh. Action, adduction, flexion, and external rotation of tlngh. Kcrrc, the obturator. Adductor Brevis (Figs. 335, 339).—" The short adductor." Situation, in the inner and upper part of the thigh. Origin, the outer surface of the body and descending ramus of the os pubis. Direction, down-, out-, and backward. Inser- tion, the line from the small trochanter to the linea aspera and the upper part of the linea aspera. Action, adduction, flexion, and external rotation of the tliigh. Nerve, the obturator. Adductor Gracilis (Figs. 337, 340, 352).—" The slender adductor." Situation, in the inner side c)f the thigh near the surface. Origin, the inner margin of the OS pubis, the lower half of the symjihysis, and the whole length of the inferior ramus. Direction, downward, behind the inner condyle of the femur, and, below the knee, forward. Insertion, the upper part of the inner surface of the tibia. Action, adduction of thigh ; also, flexion and inward rotation of leg. Nerve, the obturator. Pectineus (Figs. 337, 341).—"The pubic muscle." Situation, between tlie pubic bone and the upper, back part of the thigh. Origin, the ilio-pectineal line FIG. 341.-Pectineus of right side: outline and Fig. 342.-Obturator externus of right side: outline attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) and attachment-areas. (J<. H. L..) and the surface in front of it. Direction, down-, out-, and backward. Insertion, the rough line from the small trochanter to the linea aspera. Action, adduction,THE MUSCLES. 298 flfxion, and outward rotation of tliigh. Nerves, the anterior crural and the obtu- rator. Obturator Externus (Figs. 335, 342).—" The outer obturator muscle," so called from its origin. Hituntiov, between the obturator region on the outer surface of the pelvis and the digital fossa of the femur, behind and beneath the hip-joint. Origin, the inner half of tlie outer surface of the obturator membrane, the adjoin- ing surfaces of the pubic body, and the pubic and ischial rami. Direction, outward, then backward and upward, close to the under and hind surfaces of the cervix feraoris. Insertion, the bottom of the digital fossa. Aetian, outward rotation, adduction, and flexion of thigh. Nerve, the obturator. Quadratus Femoris (Figs. 331, 333, 343).—" The square muscle of the thigh." Situation, between the tuber ischii and the upper part of the shaft of the femur. Fig. 343.—Quadratus femoris of right side: outline and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) Origin, the outer border of the tuberosity of the ischium. Direction, outward. Insertion, the quadrate tubercle and the surface just below it. Action, external rotation and adduction of thigh. Nerve, from the sacral plexus. Pyriformis (Figs. 344, 345).—"The pear-shaped muscle." Situation, between the front of the hind wall of the true pelvis and the upper end of the thigh. Orif/in, the ventral surface of the second, third, and fourth pieces of the sacrum, between and outside of the anterior foramina and the hind border of the ilium below the inferior spine. Direction, nearly horizontally outward by the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Insertion, the front of the upper border of the great tro- chanter. Action, when the femur is extended, external rotation ; when it is Hexed, abduction. Nerve, from the sacral plexus. The obturator internus and the two gemelli are so intimately related that it would be rational to consider them as a single muscle ; but, as they are always treated as separate organs, the conventional rule is here observed. Gemellus Superior (Fig. 344).—" The upper little twin muscle." Situation, above the tendon of the obturator internus. Origin, the spine of the ischium. Direction, outward. Insertion, the front of the inner surface of the great tro-OBTURATOR INTERN US. 299 chanter. Action, assistant to the obturator intcrmis. Nerve, from tlie sacral plexus. Obturator Internus (Fig. 346).—" The internal obturator muscle," referring to Fig. 344.—Muscles of right hip viewed from behind, the Fig. 345.—Pyriformis of right .side : outline gluteus maximus having been cut away. (Testut.) and attacliment-areas. (F. H. G.) its origin. Situation, largely within the pelvis on its lateral wall, and partly in the upper end of the thigli. Origin, the inner surface of the obturator mem- FiG. 346.—Obturator internus of right side. Tlie gemellus superior is shown, but the inferior is mostly removed. (Testut.) l)rane, exce])t a little of its lower part; a large area between tlie obturator fora- men, ilio-pectiueal line, and the great sacro-sciatic foramen ; the front and lower300 THE MUSCLES.301 MUSCLES 3rOVING THE LEG. margins of the latter foi'amen. Direction, backward to the small sacro-sciatie foramen, aronnd the ischium, and theuce outward. Insertion, the front ])art of the inner surface of the great trochanter. Action, in extension of tlie thigli, exter- nal rotation ; in flexion of the thigli, abduction. Gemellus Inferior (Fig. 344).—" The lower little twin muscle." Sitiidtion, below the tendon of the obturator iiiternus. Origin, the upper part of tlie tuberosity of the ischium. Direction, outward. Insertion, the front of the inner surface of the great trochanter. Action, assistant to the obturator internus. Nerve, from the sacral plexus. MUSCLES MOVING THE LEG. . Flexors. Extensor. Sartorius. Biceps flexor cruris. Semitendinosus. Se m i m e mb ran os us. Popliteus. Quadriceps extensor cruris, comprising : Rectus femoris. Vastus externus. Vastus internus. Vastus intermedins. Of the five flexors three arise from the pelvis alone, one from the pelvis and femur, and one from the femur alone. Thus, four of them cross both the hip- and the knee-joints, and become extensors of the thigh, whenever flexion of the leg is prevented or fully accomplished. One head of the multiple extensor arises from the pelvis, the others from the femur. The ]iart which crosses the hip-joint as well as the knee-joint acts as a flexor of the thigh, when extension is completed or the knee is tixed. Sartorius (Figs. 347, 348, 352).—" The tailor's muscle," so called from its action, which assists in producing the cross-legged position assmned by tailors in sitting on the bench. 'Hituation, in the front and inner side of the thigh, between the ilium and tibia. Origin, the anterior superior iliac spine and part of the notch below. Direction, downward and inward across the front of the thigh, then behind the inner condyle of the femur, and finally forward. Insertion, the inner surface of the tibia, near the tubercle. Action, flexion of the leg and thigh, and synchronous abduction of the thigh; then outward rotation. Nerve, the anterior crural. Biceps Flexor Cruris (Figs. 349, 350, 352).—" The two-headed flexor of the leg." Sititation, in the back of the thigh, between the ischium and fibula. Origin, tlie long head : the inner impression on the ischial tuberosity, in com- mon with the semitendinosus ; the short head : the outer lip of the linea aspera and the upper two-thirds of tlie outer supracondylar ridge. Direction, downward and a little outward. Insertion, the head of the fibula and (slightly) the outer tuberosity of the tibia. Its tendon forms the outer hamstring. Action, flexion of the leg, and then external rotation ; also, from its pelvic origin, exten- sion of the thigh. Nerve of the long head, the internal popliteal ; of the short head, the external ]iopliteal. Semitendinosus (Figs. 349, 351, 352).—" The half-tendon muscle." Situation, in the back of the thigh toward the inner side, between the ischium and tibia. Origin, the inner impression of the ischial tuberosity, in common with the bicejDS. Direction, downward and a little inward. Insertion, the upper part of the inner surface of the tibia. Action, flexion fif the leg, and then inward rota- tion ; also, from its 2^e'lvic origin, extension of the thigh. Nerve, the internal popliteal. Semimembranosus (Figs. 353, 354, 349).—"The half-membrane muscle," so called from the peculiar disposition of its tendons. Situation, in the hind and inner ]iart of the thigh, from the ischium to the tibia. Origin, the upper and outer facet of the ischial tuberosity. Direction, downward and a little inward.THE MUSCLES. 302 Insertion, mainly the groove on the back of tlie inner tuberosity of the tibia; also, a reflection upward and ontward to the posterior ligament of the knee, and one downward and ontward to the fascia covering the popliteus. Action, flexion of leg, and then inward rotation ; also, extension of thigh. Nerve, the in- ternal popliteal. The tendons of this mnscle, the semitendinosus, and the gracilis from the inner hamstring. Popliteus (Figs. 353,355).—" The ham muscle." Situatio7i, behind the knee- joint and in the upper part of the leg. Ori(/in, the outer side of the external Fig. 349.—Muscles in the dorsum of the right Fig. S-IO.—Biceps flexor cruris of right side: outline thigh. (Testut.) and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) condyle of the femur, within the capsule of the joint. Direction, down- and inward. Insertion, the triangular surface above the olilique line of theMUSCLES 310 VING THE LEG. 303 tibia. Action, flexion and inward rotation of the leg. Nerve, the internal popliteal. Quadriceps Extensor Cruris.—" The four-headed extensor of the leg." Syno- nym, quadriceps extensor fenioris, " the four-headed extensor of the thigh"—a misleading name considered from the phys- iological point of view, because this muscle does not extend the thigh. Genered Descriptiem.—Three of the four heads arise from the femur, one from the ilium. Each segment is described as a separate muscle, but all unite in a common tendon of insertion, which is attached to the tubercle of the tibia. The lowest part of this tendon is usually called the Uga- mentimi patelleB ; but, philosophically con- sidered, it is tendon rather than ligament, and the patella is only a sesamoid bone developed in it, exactly as such osseous formations appear in the short flexor ten- dons of the great toe. The iliac part of the quadriceps is distinct from the rest nearly to the patella ; but the others are more or less blended, and enclose the shaft Fig. 351.—Semitendinosus of right side: outline and attachment-areas. (F. H. Of.) Fig. 352,—The Inner hamstring muscles at their insertion. (Testut.) of the femur to such an extent as to leave hardly anything of it uncovered excepting the linea aspera. The four component parts are the rectus femoris,THE 3WSCLES. 304 vastus externus, vastus iiiternus, and vastus intermedius, and they will be described separately. Rectus Femoris (Figs. 348, 356).—" The straight muscle of the thigh." Situa- tion, sul)cutaneous, in the front of the thigh. Origin, one head : the anterior infe- rior iliac sj^ine; the other head : the surface just above the acetabulum. Direetion, downwai'd and slightly in- ward. Insertion, the u^^per Fig. 353.—.Mu.Ncks in deep portion Fig. 3.'i4.—Semimembranosus of right Fig. 35.'i. — Pojiliteus of dorsum of riglit thigh, the semi- side: outline and attachment-areas. (F. of right side: outline and tcndinosus and most of the biceps H. G.) attachment-areas. (F. H. having been removed. (Testut.) G.) border of the patella. Action, extension of the leg; also, from its iliac origin, slight flexion of the thigh. Nerve, the anterior crural.305 MUSCLES MO VIJVG THE LEG.THE MUSCLES. 306MUSCLES MOVING THE LEG. Vastus Externus (Figs. 357, 358, 348).—" The outer immense muscle." A' nym, vastus lateralis, " the lateral immense muscle." Situation, the outer part of the thigh, mostly sub- cutaneous. Origin, the anterior intertrochanteric line, the base of the great trochanter, the gluteal ridge, and the outer lip of the linea aspera. Direc- tion, down- and forward, then downward and inward. Insertion, the upper and outer borders of the patella. Action, extension of the leg. Nerve, the anterior crural. Vastus Internus (Figs. 357, 359, 348).—" The internal immense muscle." Synonym, vastus medi- alis, " the immense muscle toward the median line." Situation, in the inner part of the thigh, mostly subcutaneous. Origin, the spiral line of the femur, the inner lip of the linea aspera, and the internal supracondylar ridge ; also, the tendons of the adductor longus and adductor magnus. Direction, down- and forward, then down- and outward. Insertion, the inner and upper borders of the patella. Action, extension of the leg. Nerve, the anterior crural. Vastus Intermedius (Figs. 360, 361).—" The Fio. 360.—Vastus intermedius of right side. (Testut.) I Fig. 361.—Vastus intermedi - right side: outline and attach areas. (F. H. G.)THE MUSCLES. 308 intermediate immense muscle." Synonym, crureus, " the leg muscle"—the com- mon name, but very faulty, because it implies location in the leg, whereas this is a muscle altogether in the thigh. Situation, close to the shaft of the femur, Orif/in, the upper two-thirds of the anterior surface of the femur, the outer surface in front of and below the origin of the vastus externus, and the lower half of the external intermuscular septum. Direction, mainly downward. Inser- tion, the upper border of the patella. Action, extension of the leg. Nerve, the anterior crural. A narrow interval, extending downward from near the small trochanter, separates the vastus intermedins from the internus. Close to the bone the intermedius and externus are blended, but are distinct from each other elsewhere. Slightly distal to the lowest part of the origin of the vastus intermedius a few small fasciculi arise from the ventral surface of the femur and pass downward to the proximal l)art of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. They are usually spoken of as the sub- crureus, but would better be called musculus urticularis gcini, "the knee-joint muscle." MUSCLES MOVING THE WHOLE FOOT. Flexors. Extensors. Tibialis anterior. inS^l'swl) Tibialis posterior. {Gastrocnemius. Soleus. _ Plantaris. Peroneus tertius. -, <f l^'oneus longus. ' \ Peroneus brevis. All of these muscles find insertion in the foot, and all arise entirely in the leg, excepting one, which has its origin upon the thigh, and, since it crosses both knee- and ankle-joints, is a flexor of the leg, when the foot is fixed or fully extended. The extensors are more numerous and powerful than the flexors, the group which occupies the central position in the leg acting upon the foot purely as extensors. The inner and outer muscles respectively turn the foot inward and outward in addition to their work of flexion and extension. Tibialis Anterior (Figs. 362, 363).—" The anterior tibial muscle." Synonym and commoner name, tibialis anticus. Situation, in the front part of the leg and inner side of the foot. Origin, the external tuberosity and ujjper two-thirds of the outer surface of the tibia, and the front of the corresponding and adjacent ])ortion of the interosseous membrane. Direction, downward and inward. Inser- tion, the inner surface of the internal cuneiform and the hind end of the first metatarsal. Action, flexion of foot and elevation of its inner border; also adduc- tion of front of foot. Nerve, the anterior tibial. Peroneus Tertius (Figs. 362, 364).—" The third fibular muscle." Situation, in the front of the leg and dorsum of the foot. Origin, the lower fourth of the anterior surface of the fibula, and the corresponding and adjacent portion of the interosseous membrane. Direction, downward, then forward and outward. Inser- tion, the upper surfiice of the base of the fifth metatarsal. Action, flexion of the foot, elevation of its outer border, and abduction of its front end. It is insepar- able at its origin from the extensor lonsjns digitorum. Tibialis Posterior (Figs. 365, 366,".374, 378).—" The hind tibial muscle." Synovym and commoner name, tibialis posticus. Situation, deep in the back part of the leg and inner part of the foot. Origin, the hind surface of the interosseous membrane, the upper half of the contiguous portion of the tibia, and the inner sur- face of fibula. Direction, downward and inward to the back of the inner mal- leolus, then forward. Insertion, the tuberosity of the navicular, with offshoots to809 MUSCLES MOVING THE WHOLE FOOT. the tliree cuneiform, the cuboid, the bases of the second, third, and fourth meta- tarsal, and the sustentacuhnii tali. Action, extension of the foot, elevation of its inner border, and adduction of its front end. Nerrc, the posterior til)ial. Gastrocnemius (Figs. 367, 368, 371).—" The belly- of-the-leg (or calf) muscle." Situation, superficial in the back of the leg. Origin, the outer head: the outer side of the external condyle of the femur, and the surface just above ; the inner head : the upper part of the inner condyle, and the lower end of the ridge above. Direction, downward. Insertion, the hind part of the tuberosity of the calcaneum, in common with the Fig. 362.—Muscles in the right Fig. 363.—Tibialis anterior of risht Fig. 364.—Peroneus tertius of right leg, viewed from in front. (Testut.) side: outline and attachment-areas, side ; outline and attachment-areas. (F. H. G ) (F. H. G.) soleus. Action, extension of the foot ; also, when the ankle-joint is fixed, flexion of the leg. Nerve, the internal popliteal.THE MUSCLES. 310 Fig. 305.—Tibialis pusteriur uf right side. (Testut.) Fig. 36fi.—Tibialis posterior of right side: outline and attachment-areas. The most of the muscle is represented as if seen through the bones. (F. H. G.)311 MUSCLES 310 VINO THE WHOLE FOOT. Fig. 367.—Gastrocneiuius of right side. (Testut.) Fig. 368.—Gastrocnemius of right side : out- line and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.)312 THE MUSCLES.MUSCLES MOWNG THE WHOLE FOOT. 313 Soleus (Figs. 369-371).—"The sole-fisli muscle," so called from its shape. Synomjm, gastrocnemius internus," the internal belly-of-the-leg muscle." Situa- tion, in the back part of the leg, in front of the gastrocnemius. Origin, the head Fig. 371—Muscles in the outer side of right U |,' and dorsum of fuot. (Testut.) and upper third of the hind surface of the fil)ula, and the oblique line and inter- nal border of the tibia to the middle of its shaft. Direction, downward and a314 THE MUSCLES. little backward. Insertion, the hind part of the tuberosity of the calcaneum, in common with the gastrocnemius. Action, extension of the foot. Nerves, the internal popliteal and posterior tibial. The gastrocnemius and soleus are sometimes and not fancifully considered as a single muscle under the name of triceps surce, " the three-headed muscle of the calf"—the former furnishing two heads, and the latter, one. The common tendon is called tenclo calcaneus, " the heel tendon," and also more commonly, tendo Achi/lis, "the tendon of Achilles," in allusion to the legendary hero, whose only vulnerable part was his heel. This tendon is the largest in the body, is about six Firi. 372.—Peroneus longus of right side : outline Fig. 373.—Peroneus brevis of right side : outline and and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) inches long, narrowest at the level of the ankle-joint, and receives muscular fibres almost to its insertion. Plantaris (Fig. 369).—" The sole-of-the-foot muscle," referring to its occasional insertion into the plantar fascia. Situation, in the back of the leg between the gastrocnemius and soleus. Origin, the ridge above the external condyle of the315 MUSCLES 3IOVING THE WHOLE FOOT. Fig. 374.—Muscles in the deep layer of the dors\ira of the right leg. (Testut.) Fig. 375.—Flexor longus hallucis of right side: outline and attachment areas. The muscle is represented as seen from the front through the bones. (F. H. G.)316 THE MUSCLES. femur. Diredion, downward and inward. Insertion, the oalcaneiim at the inner side of the tendo AchilHs. Action, extension of foot and flexion of leg. Ncn-e, the internal pojiliteal. Peroneus Longus (Figs. 371, 372, 374, 378).—"The long fibular musele." Situaflnii, in the outer side of the leg and the sole of the foot. Origin, the outer tuberosity of the tibia, the head and upjier two-thirds of the outer surfaee of the libula. Direction, downward to the back of the outer malleolus, forward on the outer side of the calcaneum, through the groove of the cuboid, inward and forward across the sole. Insertion, the base of the first metatarsal and the inter- nal cuneiform. Action, extension of the foot, elevation of its outer edge, and abduction of its front end. Nerve, the musculo-cutaneous of the external popliteal. Peroneus Brevis (Figs. 371,373, 365, 378).—"The short fibular muscle." Situation, in the outer side of the leg and foot. Origin, the lower two-thirds of the outer surface of the fibula. Direction, downward to behind the external malleolus, then forward and a little downward. Insertion, the outer side of the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal. Action, extension of the foot, elevation of its outer edge, and abduction of its front end. Nerve, the musculo-cutaneous of the external popliteal. MUSCLES MOVING THE DIGITS OF THE FOOT. (Those situated entirely in the foot are indicated by a star.) Flexors. Flexor longus hallucis. * Flexor brevis hallucis. Flexor longus digitorura. *Flexor accessorius. *Flexor brevis digitorum. *Flexor brevis minimi digiti. *Lumbricales. Abducto7's. *Abductor hallucis. *Abductor minimi digiti. *Interossei dorsales. Extensors. Extensor proprius hallucis. Extensor longus digitorum. *Extensor brevis digitorum. Adducfo7\s. *Adductor obliquus hallucis. *Adductor transversus hallucis. *Interossei plantares. In studying the muscles moving the digits of the foot it is unnecessary to place in a group by themselves those which act upon the great toe, as was done in the case of those of the thumb, for the reason that the first metatarsal bone is as fixed as its four fellows, and does not permit the degree and kind of movement which are so marked a feature of digital action in the hand. All but four of the twenty-four members of this group are situated entirely in the foot. Flexor Longus Hallucis (Figs. 374, 375, 378).—" The long flexor of the great toe." Synonym, flexor longus pollicis pedis, " the long flexor of the thumb of the foot." Situation, deep in the back of the leg on the outer side and in the sole. Origin, the lower two-thirds of the hind surface of the fibula, and a little of the interosseous membrane below. Direction, downward and inward, behind the inner malleolus, beneath the sustentaculum tali, then forward and inward in the sole. Insertion, the under surface of the base of the last phalanx of the first digit. Action, flexion of the last phalanx of the great toe. Nerve, the posterior tibial.317 MVSCLEH MOVING THE DIGITS OF THE FOOT. Flexor Brevis Hallucis (Figs. 376, 379).—"The short flexor of the great toe." Synoni/in,Aexov brevis pollicis pedis, "the short flexor of the thumb of the foot." Situation, in the third layer of the muscles of the sole on the inner side.^ Origin, the inner border and under surface of the cuboid, and the cuneiform tendon of the tibialis pos- terior. Direction, forward and inward. Inser- tion, one (the inner) tendon : the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe on the plantar aspect, fused with the abductor; the other tendon : the outer side of the same bone, symmetrical with the inner tendon, and conjoined with the adductor. Action, flexion of the whole of the great toe. Nerve, the internal plantar. Flexor Longus Digitorum (Figs. 374, 377, 378).—"The long flexor of the digits" of the foot, meaning the four small toes. Synonym, flexor perforans digitorum pedis, " the perforat- ing flexor of the digits of the foot," referring to the passage of its tendons of insertion through the corresponding tendons of the flexor brevis digitorum. Situation, deep in the back of the leg on the inner side, and in the sole. Orir/in, the middle two-fourths of the inner part of the hind surface of the tibia. Direction, downward behind the inner malleolus, then forward and out- ward into the sole. Insertion, by four tendons, each into the base of a third phalanx on the plantar surface. The undivided tendon is super- ficial to that of the flexor longus hallucis. Each digital tendon pei'forates the corresponding ten- don of the flexor brevis, just as the flexor pro- of the right sole. (Testut.) fundus perforates the flexor sublimis in the hand. Action, flexion of the last phalanges of the four small toes. Nerve, the posterior tibial. Flexor Accessorius (Fig. 379).—"The adjunct flexor," this being assistant to the flexor longus digitorum. Synonyms, flexor accessorius digitorum pedis, and quadratus plantte, " the square muscle of the sole." Situation, in the hind part of the second muscular layer of the sole. Origin, the calcaneum—one head being attached to the inner surface, the other to the outer surface in front of the external tubercle. Direction, forward. Insertion, the outer (hind) border and upper surface of the flexor longus digitorum. Action, flexion of the four small toes. It also brings the line of action of the flexor longus digitorum into the long axis of the foot. Nerve, the external plantar. Flexor Brevis Digitorum (Fig. 380).—" The short flexor of the digits," mean- ing the four small toes. Synonym, flexor perforatus digitorum pedis, " the per- forated flexor of the digits of the foot." Situation, in the first muscular layer or the sole, midway between its sides. Origin, the front of the inner tubercle of the calcaneum. Direction, forward. Insertion, by four tendons into the sides of the second phalanges of the four small toes on their plantar aspect. Each tendon is perforated opposite the first phalanx by the corresponding tendon of the long flexor. Action, flexion of the second phalanges of the four small toes. Nerve, the internal plantar. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti Pedis (Fig. 379).—"The short flexor of the least ^ The layers of plantar muscles are numbered from the surface of the sole upward, as they occur in dissection.318 THE MUSCLES. digit of the foot"—i.e., of the little toe. Synonym, Qexor digiti quinti brevi.s, " the short flexor of the fifth digit." Situation, in the third muscular layer of the sole on its outer border. Origin, the under surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal. Direction, forward. Insertion, the outer side of the base of the first jihalanx of the fifth toe on its jilantar aspect. Action, flexion of the fifth toe. Nerve, the external plantar. Lumbricales (Fig. 379).—"The earth-worm muscles," from their fimcied resemblance to com- mon angle-worms (lumbriei). Each is a lumbri- calis. Number, four. Situation, in the fore part of the second muscular layer of the sole. Origin, from the digital tendons of the flexor longus digi- torum. Direction, forward to the inner side of the four small toes. Insertion, the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the first phalanx. Action, first, flexion of the first phalanges; second, extension 0 Fig. 377.—Flexor longus digitorum of right side: outline and attachment-areas. The muscle is represented as seen from in front through the bones. (F. H. G ) Fig. 378.—Tendons in the right sole. (Testut.) of second and third phalanges. Nerves, for the inner two, the internal plantar; for the others, the external plantar.319 MUSCLES 3I0VIXG THE DIGITS OF THE FOOT. Extensor Proprius Hallucis (Figs. 381, 382, 362).—" The proper extensor of the great toe." Synonyms, extensor longus hallucis, extensor proprius pollicis, extensor longus jDollicis pedis. " Proprius " is preferable to " longus " in naming this muscle, because extension of the great toe is partly effected through the inner tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum, a muscle not special (propriusj to this digit, but also concerned in extending three other toes. Situation, in the front of the leg and dorsum of the foot. Origin, the middle two-fourths of the anterior surface of the iibula and adjacent part of the interosseous membrane. Direction, downward, through the annular ligament, then forward, inward, and a little downward. Insertion, the dorsum of the base of the last phalanx of the hallux. Action, extension of great toe. JS~erre, the anterior tibial. Extensor Longus Digitorum (Figs. 362, 383).—" The long extensor of the digits," meaning the four small toes. Situation, in the front of the leg and dor- sum of the foot. Origin, the external tuberosity of the tibia, the head and two- thirds of the anterior surface of the fibula, and a little of the upper part of the interosseous membrane. Direction, downward through the annular ligament, then forward and a little doAvnwai'd. Insertion, by a tendon for each of the small toes. Each tendon divides into three parts, of which the middle is attached at the base of the second phalanx on its dorsal aspect, the lateral parts uniting and iinding attachment at the base of the last phalanx. Action, extension of the four small toes. Xerve, the anterior tibial. Extensor Brevis Digitorum (Figs. 384, 381).—"The short extensor of the320 THE 3IUSCLES. digits" of the foot. Situation, in the dorsum of the foot. Origin, the front of the upper and outer surface of the calcaneum. Direction, forward, and a little inward and downwai'd. Insertion, by four tendons : the first at the base of the Fig. 381.—Muscles in the outer side of right leg ami dorsum of foot. (Testut.) first phalanx of the great toe on its dorsal aspect; the others on the outer borders of the long extensor tendons of the second, third, and fourth toes respectively.MUSCLES MOVING THE DIGITS OF THE FOOT. 321 Action, of first tendon : extension of first phalanx of the great toe, and slight adduc- tion ; of the others : assistance to the long extensor. Kcrrc, the anterior til)ial. It should be observed that this muscle does not act upon just the same digits as does the long extensor. The extensor brevis is inserted into the great toe, but not into the little ; the extensor longus into the little toe, but not into the great. Fig. 382.—Extensor proprius hallucisof right side: Fig. 3S3.—Extensor longus digitorum of right side: outline and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) outline and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) Abductor Hallucis ( Figs. 380, 381).—" The abductor of the great toe." Synonym, abduelur pollicis pedis, "the abductor of the thumb of the foot." Situdtion, in the first mu.scular layer of the sole on the inner .side. Origin, the inner tubercle of the calcaneum. Direction, forward and a little inward. Inser- tion, the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, conjoined with the inner head of the flexor brevis hallucis. Action, abduction and flexion of the great toe. Nerve, the internal plantar. Abductor Minimi Digiti Pedis (Figs. 380, 384).—" The abductor of the smallest digit of the foot." .S'///(o/i////), abductor digiti quinti, " the abductor of the fifth digit." Situation, in the first muscular layer of the sole on the outer side. 21THE 3IVSCLES. 322 Origin, hoth tubercles of the calcaucum. Direction, iovwarA and a little outward. Insertion, the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Action, abduction of the fifth digit. Kerve, the external plantar. Interossei Dorsales Pedis (Fig. 385).—" The dorsal interosseous muscles of the foot." A'umher, four. Situation, one in each of the four spaces between the metatarsal bones. Origin, each from the adjacent sides of two metatarsal bones. Direction, forward. Insertion, the bases of the first ])halanges, as follows : the first to the inner side of the second toe, the second to the outer side of the second toe, the third to the outer side of the third H I a toe, the fourth to the outer side of the fourth toe ; FOURTH DOBSAl INTEROSSEOUS THIRD DORSal INTEROSSEOUS Fig. 384.—Extensor brevis digi- torum of right foot. (Testut.) SECOND DORSAL INTEROSSEOUS FIRST DORSAL INTEROSSEOUS Fig. 38.5.—Interossei dorsales of right foot. The line arj; is that from which abduction is made. (Testut.) also, each to the extensor tendon of the cori'esponding toe. Action : each abducts from a line drawn through the long axis of the second toe. Those acting on the second toe are alternately abductors and adductors : when one of them has abducted the toe, the other restores it to its attitude of rest by adduction. The dorsal interossei also flex the fii'st phalanges, and afterward extend the second and thii'd. JVerve, the external plantar. Adductor Obliquus Hallucis (Fig. 386).—" The oblique adductor of the great toe." Si/noni/iii, adductor pollicis pedis, "the adductor of the thumb of the foot." Situation, in the fore and middle part of the third mu.scular layer of the sole. Origin, the proximal ends of the second, third, and fourth metatarsals. Direc- tion, forward and inward. Insertion, the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, in common with the adductor transversus and the outer head of the flexor brevis hallucis. Action, adduction and flexion of the great toe. Nerre, the external ])lantar. Adductor Transversus Hallucis (Fig. 386).—"The transverse adductor of the great toe." Si/nonipu, transversus pedis, " the transverse muscle of the foot." Situcttion, in the third mu.scular layer of the sole, across the distal end of the metatarsus. Origin, the lower metatarso-phalangeal ligaments of the outer three toes and the transverse metatarsal ligament. Direction, transversely inward.3IUSCLES JIOVIXG THE DIGITS OF THE FOOT. 323 Insertion, the base of the first plialanx of the great toe, conjohitlv with the achhictor obliquus and the outer lieud of the flexor brevis. Action, adduction of great toe. Nerve, the exterual phmtar. Interossei Plantares (Fig. 387).—" The plantar interosseous muscles." Number, three. Situation, the second; third, and fourth spaces between the metatarsal bones, on the plantar aspect. Origin, the inner and under surfaces of metatarsal l)ones, as follows : the first on the third ])one, the second on the fourth, the third on the fifth. Direction, forward. Insertion, each on the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the corresponding toe and FIRST PLANTAB INTEROSSEOUS THIRD PLANTAB I NTE ROSSEOUS SECOND PLANTAR INTEROSSEOUS Fig. 386.—Muscles in the third layer of the right sole. (Testut.) Fig. 387.—Interossei plantares of right foot, that to which adduction is made. (Testut.) The line xx is its extensor tendon. Action, adduction toward the second toe ; also, flexion of the first phalanges, and afterward extension of the second and third phalanges. Nerre, the external plantar. The interosseous muscles, the abductor and the two adductors of the hallux, and the abductor minimi digiti are physiologically upon the same plane, forming a group whose members produce the lateral movements of the toes. The great toe has one muscle (abductor hallucis) inserted on the inner side of the base of the first phalanx, and two adductors on the opposite side of the same bone ; each of the other toes has two muscles similarly attached. They are arranged as fol- lows, the inner muscle in each case being named first: the second toe has the first dorsal intero.sseous and the second dorsal interosseous ; the third toe has the first plantar interosseous and the third dorsal ; the fourth toe has the second plantar interosseous and the fourth dorsal ; the fifth toe has the third plantar interosseous and the abductor minimi digiti. The interossei inserted upon the second toe are alternately abductors and adductors; the othei* dorsal interossei are always abductors, and all of the plantar interossei are adductors, the middle line of the second toe when at rest being the line from and to which movements are reckoned. Compare the arrangement with that of the homologous parts in the upper limb. Psoas Parvus fFijr. 325).—"The little loin-mii.scle " is small, flat, inconstant, of irregu- lar orifrin. situated in front of the psoas magnus. Most frequently it arises from the bodies of324 THE MUSCLES. the lowest thoracic and the highest kimbar vertebrfe and the disc between them. Tts body is short, and its long tendon, blended with the iliac taseia, is inserted into the ilio-pectineal emi- nence. It is a tensor of the iliac fascia. MrscLEs WHICH Move the Lower Limb, Grouped According to Their Location. In the PehiH and Upper Part of the Thi'gli. Psoas magnus. Iliacus. the Region of the Buttock. Gluteus maxinius. Obturator externus. Gluteus inedius. Gemellus superior. Gluteus miuimus. Obturator iutenuis. Pyriformis. Gemellus inferior. Quadratus femoris. In the Front of the Thigh. Tensor vaginfe femoris. Vastus externus. Sartorius. Vastus iuternus. Rectus femoris. Vastus intermedius. In the Bach of the Thigh. Semimembranosus. Semiteudinosus. Biceps flexor cruris. In the Mesial Part of the Thigh. Adductor magnus. Adductor brevis. Adductor longus. Adductor gracilis. Pectineus. In the Front of the Leg. Tibialis anterior. Extensor jiroprius hallucis. Extensor longus digitorum. Peroneus tertius. In the Outer Part of the Leg. Peroneus longus. Peroneus brevis. In the Back of the Leg. Soleus. \ Superficial group. Plantaris. j Popliteus. Flexor longus hallucis. Flexor longus digitorum. Tibialis posterior. In the Dorsum of the Foot. Extensor brevis digitorum. In the Sole of the Foot. Abductor hallucis. "| Flexor brevis digitorum. V Fir.^t (sujierfeial) layer. Abductor minimi digiti. j Flexor accessorius. \ g^^^^^^j j Lumbricales. j Flexor brevis hallucis. ' "1 Adductor obliquus halluds. _ [ . ,^ ^ Adductor transversus linllucis. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. J Interossei plantares. \ Fourth layer. interossei dorsales pedis. J ^ Gastrocnemius. Deep group.THE 3IUSCLES OF THE BA CK. 325 THE MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. These will be considered in three groups, as follows : A. The muscles of the bach, including those in the dorsum of the neck. B. The muscles of the abdomen. C. The muscles of the thorax. THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK, including the Dorsum of the Neck. The muscles situated in the back of the trunk and neck are arranged in a number of groups, which are usually described as layers, although the lamination of those most deeply located is not distinct. The first, or superficial layer, comprising the trapezius and latissimus, and the second layer, made up of the levator scapulai and the two rhomboidei, have already been described in connection with the muscles of the upper limb, as they func- tionally belong in that class. Muscles in the Third Layer of the Back. Serratus posterior superior. vSplenius capitis. Serratus posterior inferior. Splenius cervicis. Fig. 388.—Muscles in the tliini layt-r nf the back. (Testut.) Serratus Posterior Superior (Fig. 388).—" The upper, hind, saw-toothed muscle." Synonym, serratus pdsticus superior. Situation, at the base of the neck and upper part of the thorax, nearly covered by the levator scapulte and rhomboidei. Ori-THE MUSCLES. 326 gin, the lower part of the nape ligament, and the spines of the last cervical and two or three upper thoracic vertebrse. Direction, down- and outward. Insertion, the second, third, rnfUiii \^Yyu fourth, and tifth ribs beyond their angles. Action, elevation of the ribs of its insertion. Nerves, the second and third intercostals. Serratus Posterior Inferior (Fig. 389).—" The lower, hind, saw-toothed muscle." St/nonyrn, ser- \^ ratus posticus inferior. Situatioi, the upper loin and lower thoracic regions. Origin, the spines ^ of the lower two thoracic and upper two or three / lumbar vertebrae. Direction, outward and upward. ^ Insertion, the lower borders of the lower four or ^ five ribs, beyond the line of the costal angles. Action : it draws the lower ribs backward and downward. Nerves, the intercostal. Splenius Capitis (Fig. 388).—" The strap- diaped muscle of the head." Situation, in tlie ^l)- t\ M'I§!MW\ back of the neck, in front of the trapezius. Fig. 389.—Muscles in the second layer of the back and on the dorsum of the shoulder. (Testut.) Fig. 390.—Erector spina;, superficial view. (Testut.)THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK. Origin, the lower two-thirds of the nape ligament, and the spines of the seventh cervical and first and second thoracic vertebrfe. Direction, npward and outward. Lv<ertion, the mastoid process of the temporal, and the superior curved line of the occipital. Action, extension of head, and its rotation to the side on which the muscle lies. Nerve, the posterior primary branches of the middle cervical. Splenius Cervicis (Fig. 388).—" The strap-shaped muscle of the neck." Synonym, splenius colli. Situation, in the back of the neck, in front of the trape- zius. Origin, the spines of the third, fourth, and fifth thoracic vertebrte. Direc- tion, upward, outward, and forward. Insertion, the hind tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the upper two, three, or four cervical vertebra?. Action, extension of the neck, and its rotation to the side on which the muscle lies. Nerves, the posterior branches of the lower cervical. Muscles in the Fourth Layer of the Back. The fourth layer is formed by the erector spinte (the erector of the spine— that is, the muscle which extends it). It constitutes the greater part of the long, rounded mass, which runs parallel to the series of vertebral spinous processes, and projects so far backw^ard that, when a view is taken of the entire back, the bones seem to be sunk in a valley between two mounds, instead of protruding conspicuously, as in the skeleton. The Erector Spiaas (Fig. 390) is a compound muscle, beginning below in a single mass, Init soon dividing into three portions, which pass upward and end at different heights, that nearest the middle line going no further than the npper part of the thorax, the outermost passing well into the neck, and the middle I'eaching to the base of the skull. The second and third of these do not proceed to their respective destinations uninterruptedly, but bv a series of steps, each making three. The arrangement suggests the simile of scaling a clifF: as the muscle climbs up the back, it does not relinc[uish one foothold until it has estab- lished a new one—it takes a fresh grip bef tre it lets go the old; and, as a result, there is not merely continuity of structure, but overlapping, one segment begin- ning back (sometimes far back) of the ending of the segment below it. The various portions are described as separate muscles. The name erector spinfe properly includes them all; but it is often used in a restricted sense to designate the undivided mass from which these prolongations arise. Scheme of the Erector Spince. '' Outer division : Ilio-costalis. Accessorius ad ilio-costalem. Cervicalis ascendens. Erector spinte Jliddle di Longissimus dorsi. Transversalis cervicis. Trachelo-mastoideus Inner division : Spinalis dorsi. The Erector Spinas arises from the lowest two or three thoracic and all of the lumbar and sacral spines, the transverse processes of several lower thoracic ver- tebra;, the lower and back part of the sacrum, and the hind fifth of the iliac crest. From this beginning come the three divisions—-the outer, the middle, and the inner. The outer division starts off just below the last rib as the ilio-costalif (Fig. 390), so called from its connecting the ilium with certain ribs. It is also knownTHE 31USCLES. 328 Fi(i. 391—Erector spina. The outer series is pulled outward. (Testut.) Fig. 392.—Erector spinse. The middle series is pulled outward. (Testut.)THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 329 as the sacro-lumbalis, as it begins in the sacral region and runs to tlie lumbar. It is inserted into the lower six or seven ribs at their angles, or in the line of the cos- tal angles. From the same ribs, a trifle toward the middle line from these points of insertion, springs the accoimrim ad ilio-costa/etn (Fig. 391), " the adjunct to the ilio-costjilis," which passes np and is inserted into the ujjjjer six ribs (at the angles of those below the lirst, and on that one near the tubercle), and the trans- verse process of the vertebra prominens. On the four or tive ribs above those from which the accessorius arises, a little mesially from its line of costal insertion, ai'e the points of origin of the cervicalis ascendens (Fig. 391), " the ascending neck muscle," which thus sustains a relation to the accessorius like that of the latter to the ilio-costalis. It is inserted into the ti'ansverse processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrte. These three muscles—tlic; ilio-costalis, accessorius, and cervicalis ascendens—are in appearance and in effect practically one. The middle and largest division of the erector spinte begins as the longissiinus dorsi (Figs. 390-392), " the longest muscle of the back." It is inserted into the transverse processes of all the thoracic and the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebrie, and into most of the ribs between the tubercles and angles. Its upward prolongation is called fransi'<ersaliii cervicis (Figs. 390, 392), a name which refers to the attachments of the muscle to transverse processes. It arises from the transverse processes of from four to six upper thoracic vertebrte, internally to the insertions of the longissiraus, and is inserted into the transverse processes of cer- vical vertebrjE from the second to the sixtli. The last segment of this division is the traehelo-mastoideus (Figs. 391, 393), " the ueck-mastoid muscle," so called from its situation and insertion. It arises from the transverse processes of from four to six upper thoracic vertebrfe with the transversalis cervicis, and also from the articular jjrocesses of the lower three or four cervical ; and it is inserted into the mastoid process of the temporal. The third and smallest division is nearest the median line, and is given off from the main mass of the erector above the middle of the thorax. It is called the spinalis dorsi (Fig. 390), "the spinal muscle of the back," with reference to its bony attachments. It is a continuation of that portion of the common mass which arises from the lumbar and thoracic spines, and is inserted into the spines of a variable number of vertebr£e in the upper thoracic region. The effect of this arrangement is such that the erection of the vertebral column is accomplished, not as it would be by a muscle which had no attach- ments between the sacriun and cranium, but by a continuous succession of con- tractions from one small division of the column to another only a short distance away. Thus, a variety of actions is effected, and strength and steadiness of move- ment insured. The nervous supply of the entire series comes through the dorsal primary l:)ranches of the spinal nerves. Muscles in the Fifth Group of the Back. The fifth series of muscles lies in front of the erector spinre. They ai*e all chai'acterized by the direction of their fibres, which is from below upward and inward. Nearly all of the points of origin are on transverse processes of ver- tebrae, and most of the insertions are on spinous processes, the fibres passing from a transverse process to the spinous process of the fourth, fifth, or sixth vertebra above. They are the following : Complexus. Multifidus. Semispinalis cervicis. Rotatores. Semispinalis dorsi. Complexus (Figs. 393, 391), " the intricate muscle," sometimes is called semi- spinalis capitis, but without good reason; for the term "semispinalis" in con- nection with other muscles is used to signifv that one attachment is upon spinous processes of vertebrse. It arises from the transverse processes of the upper sixTHE MUSCLES. 330 or seven tlioracic vertehriie and the last cervical, and from the articnlar processes of cervical vertebrae from the third to the sixth. It is inserted into the occipital l)one, on the mesial part of the snrface between the cnrved lines. The ])ortion nearest the middle line is somewhat detached, and has a tendinons inscription about half way of its length, on account of wliich it is often reckoned as a separate muscle, the hiveiitcr errricis. It extends the head, drawing it to one side. Its nerve-supply is from several upper cervical nerves. Semispinalis cervicis (Fig. 392), the name meaning " the muscle of tlie neck, one extremity of which is attached to spinous processes," arises from the transverse processes of the upper five or six thoracic vertebme, and is inserted into the spinous processes of cervical from the second to the fifth. It extends the neck, and rotates it to the opposite side. Its nerves are branches from the lower cervical and upper thoracic. Semispinalis dorsi (Fig. 392), " the muscle of the back, one end of which is attached to spinons processes," arises tVom the transverse processes of thoracic vertcbne from the sixth to the tenth, and is inserted into the spinous processes of the last two cervical and of the n]>per four, five, or six thoracic vertebrae. Its principal action is extension of the lower cervi- cal and npper thoracic regions. It is snp2)lied by thoracic spinal nerves, Multifidus (Fig. 392), " the many-cleft muscle," occnpics the greater part of the gutter Ix'sidc the vertebral spines from the sacrum to the axis. Its fibres pass from some ]iart (usually a process) of one vertebra to tlie s])inons processes of several vertcbne above it, generally the second, third, and fourth. It arises from the groove on the back of the sacrum, the mammillary processes in the lumbar region, the transverse in the thoracic region, and the articular of the lower four cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into all the spinous processes of the true ver- tebr.'e. It extends, bends sidewise, and rotates to the opposite side the spinal column. The posterior branches of the spinal nerves supply it. Rotatores, rotators of the s]iine, lie covered in by the multifidus, and are by some regarded as part of it. They are constant only in the thoracic region, are eleven in number, and each passes between the transverse process of one vertebra and the lamina of the next al)ove. They produce rotation of the spine to the opposite side, and also bend it backwar<l and sidewise. Their nerves are the thoracic. In the cervical and luml)ar regions are found a series of small muscles, called inferspinalcs, which pass from one sjnnous process to the next above ; and another series, the iyifoiransro'Sd/cft {l)de)irans!rcr!<(trii), which connect one transverse pro- cess with the next above. The former assists in extension of the spine, the latter in its lateral flexion. 393.—Trachelo-mastoid (Testut.) Suboccipital Muscles. Rectus capitis posterior major. Rectus capitis posterior minor. Obli(pms capitis inferior. Obliquus capitis superior. Rectus Capitis Posterior Major (Fig. 392).—The name means literally "the greater straight hind muscle of the head." It arises from the spine of the axis,331 THE MUSCLES OE THE ABTjOMEX. passes upward and outward, and is inserted into the outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital, and the surface in front of it. Jt extends the head, and rotates it to the same side. The suboccipital nerve supplies it and all the others of thi~ gniu|». Eectus Capitis Posterior Minor (Fig. 392), "the smaller straight hind muscle of the head," arises mi tin- tubercle of the posterior arch of the atlas, runs upward and outward, and is inserted into the inner part of the inferior curved line of the occipital and the area in front of it. It extends the head. Obliquus Capitis Inferior (Fig. 392), "the lower oblique muscle of the head," arises from the sjnne of the axis, goes upward and outward, and is inserted into the transverse process of the atla~. Its principal action is to rotate the atlas to the same side. Obliguus Capitis Superior (Fig. 392), the upper oblique muscle of the head," arises from the transverse process of the atlas, passes upward, backward, and inward, and is inserted into the surface behind the inferior curved line of the occipital. It extends the head. THE MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. Rectus abdomiiii-. Pyramidalis. Obliquus externus abdornini-^ Obliquus internus abdominis. Transversalis. Quadratus lumborum. Of these muscles the rectu,- and pyramidalis are in front, the quadratus is behind, and the contractile portion of the obliquus externus, obliquus interuus, and transversalis are at the side, their fibrous part ex- tendi n<r forward and inward to the median line of the b.-lly. Rectus Abdominis (Fig. 394j.—The straiglit mus- cle of the abdomen." hiitimtion, in the front wall of the belly. Origin, the pubic crest and symphysis, the tendon from the latter point coming froin the opposite side and crossing its fellow. Direction, upward, curv- ing with convexity forward, corresponding with the contour of the Ijelly. Insertion, the fifth, sixth, and seventh costal cartilages. Several tendinous intersec- tions {imcriptiones fendinece), usually not occupying the whole thickness of the muscle, cross it, generally one at the level of the ensiform appendix, one at that of the navel, one between these, and often one below. The sheath of the muscle is formed by the tendons of the lateral muscles. (See below.) Action, depression of the thorax, and compression of the abdominal vis- cera. ^Vc/vv.v, the lower intercostal and the ilio-hypo- gastric. The three lateral muscles constitute three nearly co-extensive layers, and their broad tendons of inser- tion (called "aponeuroses"), separate at first, become blended along a slig-htlv curved, nearlv vertical line (called linea semilunaris, "the half-moon line") just at the outer edge of the rectus. This combined tendon then splits vertically into laminse of ec^ual thickness, which separate and embrace the rectus, one going in front, the other behind, and finally meet again at the median line, where they fuse with each other and with the corresponding structures of the opposite side, mak- ing a strong, ])orpendicu]ar, fibrous band called linen oJho, " tlie white line," which runs from ensiform appendix above to symphysis pulii- below. The Fig. 394.—Rectus abdominis and obliquus intemus of right side. (Testut.)THE MUSCLES. 332 inclusion of the rectus by these tendons obtains, however, only in the upper three- fourths of its extent: the tendons all pass in front of the muscle in the lower quarter, leaving the corresponding hind surface free. Pyramidalis (Fig. 394).—" The pyramidal muscle." It arises from the front of the OS pubis, runs up in the sheath of the rectus a short distance, and is inserted in the linea alba. It is very inconstant in presence, size, and shaj^e. It is adjunct to the rectus. Oljliquus Extemus Abdominis (Fig. 395).—" The external oblique muscle of the abd(jmen." Slbudion, superficial, in the side and front walls of the bellv. Origin, the outer surface of the lower eight ribs. Direction, downward in the hind part; downward, forward, and inward elsewhere. Insertion, the front half of the outer lij) of the iliac crest, the pubic spine and crest, the ilio-pectineal line, and the linea alba. The points of origin make a saw-toothed line, the upper digitations interlocking with similar points of the serratus magnus, the lower with those of the latis- simus. The tendon of insertion is a broad sheet, Avhich passes to the mid-line, and there fuses with its fellow opposite and with the tendons of the external ol)li(jue and transversalis. The part of the tendon extending from the anterior superior iliac spine to the pubic spine is thicker than the rest, and its edge is curled backward, forming a narrow shelf. This thick part is the inguinal ligament, commonly called Pou- part's ligament. From its pubic end extends back- ward to the neighboring extremity of the ilio- pectineal line a flat, triangular process, having a free, concave outer border, and known as Gimbernat's ligament, or the lacunar ligament. Just above the pubic body the tendon presents an opening, the exter- nal abdominal ring (Fig. 396), which results from a separation of the fibres. The a])ertnre slopes upward and outward, and would be triangular Avere it not for certain fibres, which cross all but the lowest and widest inch of it, and are called intercolumnar, because they are between the pillars, as the inner (upper) and outer (loAver) edges of the tendon, Avhich margin the sides of the hole, are called. The inner pillar runs to the svmphysis, the outer to the spine of the pulnc bone. Thus, the ring is bounded below by the pubic crest, above by the inner pillar, outside by the inter- columnar fibres, and elsewhere by the outer pillar. The ring is occupied by the s])ermatic cord in the male, by the round ligament of the Avomb in the female. Action, compression of abdominal viscera, rotation of the pelvis to the same side, flexion of pelvis on chest. Nerves, the loAver intercostal, ilio-inguinal, and ilio- hvpogastric. Obliquus Intemus Abdominis (Fig. 394).—" The internal oblique muscle of the abdomen." Situation, in the side and front of the belly-wall, next deeper than the external oblique. Origin, the outer half of the inguinal ligament, two-thirds of the middle lip of the iliac crest, and, slightly, the lumbar fascia. Direction, in general, forward, inAvard and upAvard ; also, directly upAvard behind, and doAvn- Avard in front. Insertion, the lower borders of the costal cartilages from the tAvelfrh to the seventh, the ensiform appendix, the linea alba, the front of the os pubis, and the ilio-pectineal line. The portion inserted into the pubic bone and ilio-pectineal line enters into the formation of the conjoined tendon the internal oblique and transversalis. The lower portions of the internal oblique give off' a series of muscular slips, Avhich are arranged in loops in front of and embracingTHE MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 333 the spermatic cord. Tliey constitute the creniaster muscle {" the supporting mus- cle "), and the fascia in the spaces between them is the crernasteric fascia. The Fig. 396.—External abdominal ring of right side. (Testut.) cremaster lifts the testicle. Action, the internal oblique compresses the abdominal viscera, depresses the ribs, flexes the chest upon the pelvis, and rotates it to the side on which the muscle acts. Nerves, the ilio-hypo- gastric, ilio-inguinal, and lower intercostals. Transversalis Abdominis (Fig. 397).—" The trans- verse muscle of'the alidomen." Si/nonyrii, transversus abdominis. Situation, deep in the side and front walls of the belly. Origin, the inner surfaces of the lower six costal cartilages, the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrte, the anterior two-thirds of the inner lip of the iliac crest, and the outer third of the inguinal ligament. Direction, forward and inward, and in lowest part downward. Insertion, the linea alba and (by the conjoined tendon of this muscle and the internal oblique) the front of the os pubis and the neighboring part of the ilio-pectineal line. The trans- versalis at its upper origin interdigitates with the diaphragm. Between its costal and iliac regions its origin is tendinous, and lies between the erector spinse and quadratus lumborum. This tendon is otherwise known as the middle layer of the lumliar fascia, and extends from the last rib to the ilio-lunibar ligament. Action, compression of the abdominal viscera. Nerves, the lower intercostal, ilio-hypogastric, and ilio-in- guinal. The muscular fibres at the upper third of the transversalis extend toward the middle line so far as to lie behind the rectus. It is well to note that the three muscles in the side of the abdomen are attached to ribs or costal cartilages above and to iliac crest below, respectively, as follows : the outer muscle to the outer surface and outer lip, the inner muscle to the inner surface and inner lip, the mid- dle muscle to the middle surface (the border) and the middle lip Fig. 397.—Transversalis ab- dominis of right side. (Testut.) The obliquityTHE MUSCLES. 334 of the fibres of these muscles to each other contributes greatly to the strength of the abdominal wall, and is a safeguard against hernia. Quadratus Lumborum (Fig. 325).—" The square muscle of the loins." Situa- tiiiii, in the iiind wall of the abdomen. Origin, the back part of the inner lip of the iliac crest, the ilio-lumbar ligament, and the transverse processes of several Idwer lumbar vertebrse. Direction, upward. Insertion, the last rib and the trans- verse ])roeesses of several upper lumbar vertebrje. Action, depression of last rib, and lateral flexion of spine. Nerves, the last thoracic and the upper lumbar. THE MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. Diaphragma. Levatores costarum. Intercostales externi. Triangularis sterni. Intercostales interni. Subcostales. Diaphragma (Figs. 398, 399).—"The diaphragm," meaning etymologically " a partition." Si/noni/nt, the nndritf. The diaphragm is the septum betv/een Fig. 398.—Diaphragm, viewed from in front. (Testut.) the two great cavities of the trunk, forming the convex floor of the thorax and the vaulted roof of the abdomen. Its tendon is centrally located, and is, conse- quently, its highest part ; and to this the muscular portion, which is peripheral, rises from its extensive origin at the lower boundaries of the thoracic framework —the sternum, some costal cartilages, several vertebrre, and certain fibrous bands between these vertebrje and the last rib. From the front of the bodies of the up])er two lumbar vertebne (on the right side one or two more) and the related cartilages rise two processes, called crura, which unite and arch over the aorta just below the last thoracic vertebra, the mesial fibres crossing to the opposite side. From the body of the first lumbar vertebra springs a fibrous band, which arches over to the tip of the transverse process, and from this point to the last rib a second band is stretched. The firstTHE MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. 335 is called Ugnmentum arcuatum internum (" the inner arched ligament "), and the other, ligamentum arcuatum externum (" the onter arched ligament "). Both give origin to muscular fasciculi. The largest part of the diaphragm arises from the Fig. 399,—Diaphragm, viewed from below. (Testut.) inner surface of the last six costal cartilages, interdigitating with the transver- salis abdominis. Finally, the ensiform cartilage gives attachment to a small Fig, 41X1,—Intercostal muscles in right wall of thorax. fTestut,) band. The central tendon looks something like a trefoil, is very large, and to it the muscular bundles converge from the entire margin of the muscle. The aortic opening, already described, gives passage to the aorta, thoracic duct.THE 2IUSCLES. 336 and largo azygos vein. In front of this and higher up is an opening wliieh trans- raits the oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves. Still higher and to the right is a third large aperture, devoted to the vena cava. Besides these great perforations are a number of small holes, which transmit nerves and vessels. The diaphragm is higher on the right side over the liver, and its upper surface is Somewhat indented at the front central part, beneath the heart. Its nerve-sup- ply is mainly from the phrenics. AVHien the diaphragm contracts, its arch is flattened, and thus the vertical capacity of the chest is increased. Intercostales Externi (Fig. 400).—"The external between-the-ribs muscles," the muscles in tiie i)utt'r layer between the ril)s. Their number corresponds to that of the intercostal spaces. They generally extend from the tuberosities of the rii)s to the junction of the cartilages ; the remainder of each space is occupied by a flbrous membrane. A similar membrane lines the muscles from the angles of the ribs backward. Each muscle arises from the lower border of a rib, runs downward and forward, and is inserted into the upper border of the rib next below. Their action lifts the ribs. Their nerves are the intercostal. Intercostales Interni (Fig. 400).—"The internal between-the-ribs muscles." Their number is that of the intercostal spaces. They occupy these spaces from the sternum to the angles of the ribs, and beyond these points fibrous membranes fill the spaces. Each muscle arises on the inner surface of a rib and its cartilage, just above its lower border, runs down- and backward, and is inserted into the inner surface of the rib just beneath. Their action is not agreed upon. The intercostal nerves supplv them. Levatores Costarum (Fig. 391, L. C.).—" The lifters of the ribs." They are twelve in number. Each is inserted into the outer surface of a rib, between its tuberosity and angle, and arises from the tip of the transverse process of the ver- tebra immediately above. A few of those which are lowest in the series liave each an insertion also into a rib beyond that projier to itself. The name of these muscles indicates their supposed action—elevation of the ribs ; but it is probable that, instead of this, they contribute to the extension and lateral flexion of the thoracic part of the vertebral column. They are supplied by the intercostal nerves. Triangularis Stemi.—" The triangular muscle of the sternum." Synonym, transversus thoracis anterior, " the front transverse muscle of the chest." Situa- tion, on the inner side of the thoracic cage in front. Orir/in, the ensiforra a])pen- dix, the lower part of the gladiolus, and the cartilages of the lower two or three true ribs. Direction, partly horizontal, parti}' oblique, partly nearly vertical. Insertion, the outer extremities of the costal cartilages from the second to the sixth. Action, de^iression of the ribs, to whose cartilages it is attached. N^erves, the intercostal. Subcostales.—"The under-the-ribs muscles." Synonym, infracostales, "the beneath-the-ribs muscles." These are small, inconstant muscles, foimd usually near the angles of the ril)s, on the inner surface of these bones, and extending over two intercostal spaces. Their direction is down- and backward, and their nerves, the intercostal. Their action, which must be very insignificant, is not yet determined. THE MUSCLES OF THE NECK. A number of the muscles in the neck have already been considered in connec- tion with those of the liack, the continuity of tissue or the close functional rela- tion between the former and the latter making this arrangement most convenient in all cases, and inevitable in others. There remain for study those muscles which are located in the ventral and lateral portions of the neck.MUSCLES OF THE FRONT AND SIDE OF THE NECK. 337 MUSCLES OF THE FRONT AND SIDE OF THE NECK. Superficial. Sterno-cleido-raastoideus. Infrahyoid. Sterno-thyroideus. Thyro-hyoideus. Suprahyoid. Mylo-hyoideus. Genio-hyoideus. Deep Lateral. Scalenus posterior. Rectus cajjitis lateralis. Prevertebral. Rectus capitis anterior major. Rectus capitis anterior minor. Longus colli. Platysma (Fig. 401).—"The broad sheet muscle." Synonym, platysma myoides, " the muscle-like sheet." Situation, in the front and side of the neck, and the lower part of the side of the face. Origin, the skin and areolar tissue covering the upper part of the pectoralis major, deltoideus, and trapezius, and, sometimes, the scapula and clavicle. Direction, upward and inward. Insertion, the outer surface of the mandible as far back as the masseter, and the muscular structures about the angle of the mouth and lower lip. Some fibres cross to the opposite side. Action : it draws the angle of the mouth and the lower lip down- and outward, and contracts the skin of the neck. Nerve, the facial. Sterno-cleido-mastoideus (Fig. 402).—"The sternum-clavicle-mastoid-process muscle." Synonym, sterno-mastoideus. Situation, in the side of the neck. Origin, the front of the manubrium and inner third of the clavicle. Direction, upward and backward. Insertion, the mastoid process of the temporal, and the outer half of the superior curved line of the occipital. An interval exists between the sternal and clavicular origins. The muscle divides the lateral area of the neck into two triangles. Action : it draws the head toward the shoulder, and rotates the face toward the opposite side. When the two muscles act, the head is extended. Stemo-hyoideus (Fig. 403).—"The sternum-hyoid-bone muscle." Situation, in the front of the neck. Origin, the back of the manubrium, and inner end of the clavicle. Direction, ii])ward. Insertion, the body o{ the hyoid. Action, depres- sion of the hyoid. Nerve, the hypoglossal. Omo-liyoideus (Figs. 402, 40.3).—" The shoulder-hyoid-l)one muscle." Situa- tion, the upper part of the shoulder and the front of the neck. Origin, the scapula, near the suprascapular notch. Direction, forward and inward to behind the sterno-cleido-mastoid, and then upward and a little inward. Insertion, the body of the hyoid. This is a slender, double-bellied muscle. The middle ten- don is held down by a loop of deep fascia, which is attached below to the sternum and cartilage of the first rib. Action, depression of the hyoid. Nerve, the hypoglossal. Sterno-thyroideus (Fig. 403).—" The sternum-thyroid-cartilage muscle." Situation, the front of the neck, behind the sterno-hyoid. Origin, the back of the manubrium, and cartilage of the first rib. Direction, upward. Insertion, the oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. Action, depression of thyroid cartilage. Nerve, the hypoglossal. 22 Platysma. Sterno-hyoideus. Omo-hyoideus. Digastricus. Stylo-hyoideus. Scalenus anterior. Scalenus medius.338 THE MUSCLES. Thyro-hyoideus (Fig. 403).—" The tliyroid-cartilage-hyoid-bone muscle." Situation, in tlie front of the neck. Origin, the oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. Direction, upward. Insertion, the body and great cornu of the hyoid. Action, depression of the hvoid; by reversed action, elevation of the thyroid cartilage. Nerve, the hypoglossal. Digastricus (Figs. 402, 403).—" The two-bellied muscle." Sitnation, the uppermost part of the side of the neck. Origin, the digastric fossa of the tem- poral. Direction, forward, inward, and downward, then forward, downward, and slightly inward. Insertion, the mandible, at its lower border near the symphysis. The tendon between the bellies is held down to the hyoid bone by a fibrous loop and the stylo-hyoid muscle, and the change in direction is effected at this point. Fig. 401.—Superficial muscles of side of neck. (Testut.) Action, elevation of the hyoid, if the mandible is fixed; depression of the mandi- ble, if the hyoid is fixed." Xerves, the facial for the hind belly, the inferior maxil- lary division of the trifacial for the front belly. Stylo-hyoideus (Fig. 402).—" The styloid-process-hyoid-bone muscle." Situa- tion, in the uppermost part of the side of the neck, along the upper border of the hind belly of the digastricus. Origin, the root of the styloid process of the tem- poral. Direction, down- and forward. Insertion, the hyoid. Near its insertion it is perforated l)y the digastricus. Action : it lifts the hyoid, and pulls it back- ward and sidewise. JS'erve, the facial. Mylo-hyoideus (Fig. 402).—" The molar-teeth-hyoid-bone muscle," so-calledMUSCLES OF THE FRONT AND SIDE OF THE NECK. 339 from its attachments near the molars of the lower jaw and to the hyoid bone. Situation, in the floor of the mouth. Origin, the mylo-hyoid ridge of the mandible. Direction, down-, back-, and inward. Insertion, behind to the hyoid, in the middle line to its fellow opposite. Action : it lifts and advances the hvoid and the floor of the mouth. Xcrve, the inferior maxillary division of the trifacial. G-enio-liyoideus (Fig. 403).—" The chin-hyoid-bone muscle." Situation, in the floor of the mouth, above the mylo-hyoideus. Origin, the lower genial tubercle. Fig. 402.—Muscles in front and side of neck. (Testiit.) -Direction, backward and a little downward. Inseiiion, the body of the hyoid. Action : it lifts and advances the hyoid. Xerre, the hypoglos.-^al. Scalenus Anterior (Fig. 404).—"The front scalene muscle"—/. e., triangular with unequal sides. Situation, deep in the side of the neck. Origin, the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. Direction, down-, out-, and forwar'd. Insertion, the tubercle on the upper surface of the first rib. Action, elevation of the first rib. Nerves, the neighboring cervical. Scalenus Medius (Fig. 404).—"The middle scalene muscle." Situation, deep in the side of the neck. Origin, the posterior tubercles of the transverse pro- cesses of all of the cervical vertebrse. Direction, down-, out-, and forward. Insertion, the upper surface of the first rib. Action, elevation of the first rib. Nerves, the neighboring cervical.THE 3IUSCLES. 340 Scalenus Posterior (Fig. 404).—" The liind scalene muscle." Situation, deep in the side of the neck. Origin, the posterior tubercles of the transverse pro- cesses of the lower two or three cervical vertebne. Direction, down-, out-, and forward. Imertion, the outer surface of the second rib. Action, elevation of the second rib. Ncrvca, the neighboring cervical. Eectus Capitis Lateralis (Fig. 404).—" The side straight muscle of the head." Situation, the side of the highest part of the neck. Origin, the transverse pro- cess of the atlas. Direction, upward. Insertion, the jugular process of the occipital. Action, tilting the head sidewise. Nerve, the first cervical. Rectus Capitis Anterior Major (Fig. 404).—" The greater front straight mus- cle of tlie head." Si/no)i;/iii, rectus capitis anticus major. Situation, in front of the upper cervical vertebra?. Origin, the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra?. Direction, up- FiG. 403.—Infrahyoid and supruUyoid groups of muscles. (Testut) and inward. Insertion, the basilar process of the occipital. Action, flexion of the liead on the spine. Nerres, the neighboring cervical. Rectus Capitis Anterior Minor (Fig. 404).—" The smaller front straight mus- cle of the head." Synonym, rectus capitis anticus minor. Situation, between the atlas and occipital bone in front. Origin, the front of the transverse process of the atlas. Direction, uj)- and inward. Insertion, the basilar process of the occipital. Action, flexion of the head. Nerve, the first cervical.341 THE MUHCLES OE THE HEAD. Longus Colli (Fig. 404).—" The long muscle of the neck." Situation, in front of the cervical and npper thoracic vertebrte. iJirision, into three parts : the vertical or middle, the lower oblicpie, and the upper oblique. The vertical part arises from the bodies of the last two cervical and two or three thoracic vertebrte, and the transverse processes of the last three or tour cervical, and is inserted into the bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical. The loicer oblique part arises from the bodies of the upper two or three thoracic vertebrje, and is inserted Fig. 404.—Deep lateral and prevertebral muscles of tha neck. (Testut.) into the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical. The upper olili(jue part arises from the anterior tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebne, and is inserted into the anterior tubercle of the atlas. Action, mostly, flexion of the neck ; also, rotation. Nerves, the neighboring cervical. THE MUSCLES OP THE HEAD. In the head are many muscles which are most conveniently treated of in con- nection with certain special organs, as the tongue, palate, pharynx, eye, and ear. In this place, therefore, there will be considered only the supei'ficial muscles.THE MUSCLES. 342 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. Muscles of Mastication. Masseter. Pterygoideus iutcrnus. Temporalis. Pterygoideus exteriuis. Muscles of Expression. 1. 3[uscles Affecting tite Orifice of the 3Iouth. Orbicularis oris. Levator anguli oris. Levator labii superioris alfecpie Risorius. nasi. Buccinator. Levator labii superioris proprius. Depressor anguli oris. Zygomaticus minor. Depressor lal^ii inferioris. Zygomaticus major. Levator labii inferioris. 2. Muscles of the Nose. Pyramidalis nasi. Levator labii superioris alfeque Compressor naris. nasi. Depressor ala? nasi. 3. Muscles of the Lids. Orbicularis palpebrarum. Tensor tarsi. Levator palpebrse. 4. 3Iuscles of the Forehead. Corrugator supercilii. Frontalis. 5. Muscle of the Occiput. Occipitalis. The Muscles of Mastication. Masseter (Figs. 407, 402).—" The chewing-muscle." Situation, in the back part of the side of the face. It consists of two portions, the superficial and the dee]), which blend at their insertion. The superficial portion arises from the lower margin of the anterior two-thirds of the zygoma, passes down- and back- ward, and is inserted on the outside of the lower half of the ramus of the man- dible. The deep po/f/on arises from the entire inner surface and the hind third of tlie lower border of the zygoma, passes downward, and is inserted into the upper half of the ramus of the mandible. Action, elevation of the lower jaw. Nerve, the inferior maxillary division of the trifacial. Temporalis (Fig. 406).—"The temple muscle." Sitiiatioi}, in the temporal fossa. (Jriyin, the entire temporal fossa, except the anterior wall. Direction, down- wai"d. Insertion, the coronoid process of the mandible. Action, elevation of the lower jaw, and, when this has been drawn forward, its retraction. Nerve, the inferior maxillary division of the trifacial. Pterygoideus Internus (Fig. 406).—"The internal pterygoid muscle," so-called from its position and origin. Si/nonpn, the internal masseter. Situctfion, the inner side of the ramus of the mandilde. Origin, the inner surface of the exter- nal ])tervgoid plate of the sphenoid, and the tuberosities of the palate and superior maxillary bones. Dii'cction, down-, back-, and outward. Insertion, the inner side of the ramus of the mandible, between the angle and the dental foramen. Action, elevation of the lower jaw. AYhen the jaw is closed, the muscle draws it forward. Nerve, the inferior maxillary division of the trifacial. Pterygoideus Externus (Fig. 406).—" The external pterygoid muscle," named from its position and origin. Situation, in the zygomatic fossa. Origin, by tAvo343 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. heads : the upper head, the zygomatic surface of the great wing of the sphenoid ; the lower head, the outer surface of the external pterygoid phite. Dirtcfioa. out- aud backward. lascrtion, the neck of the mandible, and the interarticular fibro- FiG. 405.—Temporal aud deep muscles about the mouth. TTestut.) cartilage of the temporo-mandibular joint. Action : it draws the condyle of the mandible and the interarticular cartilage forward and inward. Nerve, the infe- rior division of the trifacial. The Muscles of Expression. The muscles of expression are sometimes called "the mind muscles," from the indications which they may atford of the mental state of the individual. The majority of them are small, often poorly deiined, and so blended with each other and the skin that their dissection is frequently difficult and unsatisfactorv. Thev344 THE MUSCLES. are all supplied liy the facial nerve. It is liel])ful to o-roii]> them aecordino- to their situation into those related to the orifice of the mouth, those of the nose, those of the eyelids, those of the forehead, and that of the occiput. Besides these are others, which, in a secondary though important way, contribute to expression. The muscles which move tlie eyes are very effective in betraying emotion, and the muscular tongue, usually concealed in the oral cavity, may, either with or without partial ])rotrusion from its retreat, be made to convey as distinct an idea as can be given l)y articulate speech. Even the muscles of the pinna might, without unwarrantable stretch of terms, be included in this group, since they are Fig. 406.—I'tervgoid muscles, viewed from beluud, ili (Testut.) back portion of tlio skull having been removed. the rudimentary homologues of organs, which, in many lower animals, are strik- ingly useful in expressing various feelings. But the muscles of the orbit and of the external ear are treated more appropriately in connection with the organs of the special senses ; and those of the tongue are best 2:)resented, in company with the palatal and jiharyngeal, as parts of the alimentary system, just as the laryn- geal are discussed most conveniently with the respiratory system, and the peri- neal with the generative system. ]\IUSCLES AFFECTING THE OkIFICE OF THE MoUTH. Orbicularis oris. Levator labii superioris aheque nasi. Levator labii superioris proprius. Zygomaticus minor. Zygomaticus major. Levator anguli oris. Risorius. Buccinator. Depressor anguli oris. Depressor labii inferioris. Levator labii inferioris.SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. 345 Orbicularis Oris (Fig. 407).—" The orbicular muscle of the mouth "—that is, encircling the oral orifice. Surrounding the opening of the mouth, and extending from the nose above to the chin below, is an elliptical muscle, Avhich forms a great part of the bulk of the lips, and constitutes a sphincter to the aperture. It does not, however, consist of concentric bundles of fil^res, but is made up very largely of prolongations from various muscles of the face, which converge to its margin. It is attached above to the partition between the nostrils and to the incisor fossae Fig. 407.—Superficial muscles of head and neck. (Testut.) of the upper jaw-bones, and below to the incisor fossae of the mandible. It is covered in front by skin, behind and on its free border by mucous membrane. The action of this muscle is to close the lips and press them against the teeth. It antagonizes all of the remaining members of this gnnip, except the levator labii inferioris.346 THE MUSCLES. The nine following muscles arise from strnetures, jirineipallv osseous, in the face, converge to the margin of the orbicularis, and are either inserted into it or the skin covering it. Six are close to the surfi:ice, and three are more deejily situated. All of them by their action oppose that of the orbicularis, and in various direc- tions enlarge the opening of the month. Levator labii superioris alseque nasi (Fig. 407), " the lifter of the upper lij) and of the wing of the nose," arises from the nasal process of the superior maxillarv bone, passes downward and outward, and is inserted ]>artly into the wing of the nose, partly into the orbicularis. Its name describes its action. Levator labii superioris proprius (Fig. 407), " the proper lifter f)f the upper lip," the last word of the name being used to emphasize the distinction between this and the preceding muscle, which does other than the special work of this. It arises just above the infra-orbital foramen and the neighboring part of the malar Ijone, runs downward and inward, and is inserted into the margin of the orbicularis and the skin of the lip. It raises the part of the liji near the median line. Zygomaticus minor (Fig. 407), " the smaller zygomatic muscle." The name iuijilies attachment to the zygoma, but was unwisely given on account of its near- ness to a muscle wliich somewhat merits the title zygomatic. It arises from the front and lower part of the malar Itone, and is inserted into the orbicularis and the skin, just outside of the levator labii sujjerioris jn-oprius. It raises and draws outward the upper lip. Zygomaticus major (Fig. 407), " the larger zygomatic muscle," arises from the malar near its zygomatic suture, jjasses downward and inward, and is inserted into the skin at the angle of the mouth. It draws the angle upward and outward. Levator anguli oris (Fig. 405), "the lifter of the angle of the mouth," arises lielow the infra-orbital foramen, passes downward, and is inserted into the orbicularis and the skin near the corner of the mouth. Its name im])lies its action. Risorius (Figs. 401, 407).—The name means "the laughing muscle," but it is not descriptive. The muscle extends from the fascia over the masseter to the skin and orbicularis at the angle of the mouth. It is regarded as a specialized part of the platvsma. It draws the mouth outward horizontallv, widening the cleft. Buccinator (Fig. 405), " the trumpeter's muscle," arises from the back part of the outer surface of the alveolar processes of both jaw-bones, and from the pterygo-maxillary ligament. Its different parts converge to the angle of the mouth, and thei'e blend with the orbicularis. It pulls the angle outward, and compresses the eoutents of the vestibule of the mouth. If the cheek bulges with air, the buccinator presses it out, measurably regulating its expulsion, as in blowing a horn (hence the name) ; and it keei)s the mass of food during mastication from esca])ing outward from the grasp of the molar teeth. Depressor Anguli Oris (Fig. 407).—" The depressor of the angle of the mouth." Synonyiii, triangularis menti, " the triangular muscle of the chin." It arises from the external oblique line of the mandible, passes upward, converging to the angle of the mouth, where it blends with the orbicularis. It pulls down the corner of the mouth. Depressor Labii Inferioris (Figs. 405, 407).—"The depressor of the lower lip." SjiiKuniiii, fpiadratus menti, "the square muscle of the chin." It arises from the mandible, fi-om near the symphysis to beyond the mental foramen, jiasses upward and inward, and merges with the orbicularis. It draws the lower liji downward and slightly outward. Levator Labii Inferioris.—" The lifter of the lower lip." Si/noni/m, levator menti, " the lifter of the chin." It arises from the incisor fossa of the mandible, passes downward, and is inserted into the skin of the chin. It diflFers from the other nmscles which act upon the oral a]ierture in not participating in the struct- ure of the lips or cheeks, and in not antagonizing the orbicularis ; but, while its347 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. force is primarily directed to the chin, whicli it elevates, its practical effect is to lift the lower lip, which is carried upward by the movement of the chin, and made to protrude. Thus, it assists the lower half of the orbicularis, helping to close the opening and hold it tightly. In the play of the features Avhich the muscles about the mouth produce they almost always act in pairs, and one pair rarely acts alone. This is illustrated in the display of the opposite emotions of mirth and grief. In the former the lifters of the angles and the zygomatics draw the corners upward and outwai'd, the risorii widen the aperture still more, and the lifters of the upper lip pull it upward. In the latter the depressors of the angles drag downward the corners of the mouth, the risorii widen the slit, and the lifters of the upper lip draw it upward. In both of these cases it will be observed that the transverse crevice of the mouth is widened, the upper lips are elevated, uncovering the front upper teeth, and the angles of the uKjuth are drawn outward. By this last jirocedure the cheeks are pulled upward, and a bulging forward of the structures undi'r the orbits and a partial closure of the lower lids are thus produced. The main differ- ence, then, between the facial manifestation of joy and that of sorrow consists in the up-and-down movements of the angles of the mouth. The risorius does not deserve the name of the laughing muscle as well as does the zygomaticus major. Muscles of the Nose. Pyramidalis nasi. Levator labii superioris alaeque Compressor nnris. nasi. Depressor alse nasi. Pyramidalis nasi (Fig. 407), "the pyramidal muscle of the nose," arises at the lower border of the nasal bone, passes upward, is inserted into the skin between the brows, and by its action draws this skin downward, producing a horizontal wrinkle. The fibres often seem to be continuous with the median portion of the frontalis. Compressor Naris (Figs. 405, 407).—"The compressor of the nostril." Syno- nyms, compressor narium, " the comjjressor of the nostrils ;" comjiressor nasi, " the compressor of the nose." It arises from the nasal bone and adjacent carti- lage near the mid-line, passes downward and backwai'd, and is inserted partlv into the superior maxillary near the nasal opening, and partly into the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi. It pulls inward the muscle to which it is attached, thus wrinkling tlie nose vertically ; and it slightly compresses the nose. Levator labii superioris alaeque nasi has been described on page 346. Depressor alee nasi (Fig. 405), " the depressor of the wing of the nose," arises from the incisor fos-a of the superior maxillary bone, passes upward and outward, and is inserted into the cartilage of the wing of the nose and into the sejstum. It draws the wing of the nose downward and inward. Besides these muscles there are sometimes found two minute and indistinct bundles, which descend to the margin of the ala from the cartilages just above, and have been dignified by names which are descriptive of the slight action of these structures. They are levator proprim alcp nasi anterior, " the front proper lifter of the wing of the nose," otherwise called dilatator naris anterior, " the front widener of the nostril ; " and levator proprius ake nasi posterior, " the hind proper lifter of the wing of the nose," sometimes known as dilatator naris posterior, " the hind widener of the nostril." Finally, running from the cartilage of the wing to the skin at the tip of the nose is the inconstant and insignificant compressor narium minor, " the smaller compressor of the nostrils." Muscles of the Foeehead. Corrugator supercilii. Frontalis. Corrugator supercilii, " the wrinkler of the brow," arises from the superciliaryTHE MUSCLES. 348 ridge, passes outward and upward, and is inserted into the skin above the middle of the upper margin of the orbit. It draws the skin toward the middle line, causing vertical wrinkles in the central lower part of the forehead. From the brows to the superior curved lines of the occipital bone the vault of the skull is covered by a musculo-membranous structure, which is by some anatomists regarded as a digastric muscle, the occipito-fronfalia ; but the contrac- tile portions will here be described as separate organs, one as a muscle of the fore- head, the other as a muscle of the occiput; and the intervening membrane as the epicranial aponeurosis. It will be well to consider the last l)efore the others. The epicranial ap)oneurosift is a wide, firm, filn'ous sheet, running antero-pos- teriorly over the summit of the cranium, attached before to the frontalis muscle, behind to the occipitalis and the occipital protuberance. It is thickest near the middle, and very thin at the sides. It is closely adherent to the skin which covers it, but only loosely to the perici'anium over which it lies. Frontalis (Fig. 407), "the forehead muscle," arises from the anterior end of the e])icranial aponeurosis, passes downward, and is inserted into the skin and muscles from the root of the nose to the outer end of the eyebrows It elevates the brows, causing transverse wrinkling of the forehead. Muscle of the Octipux. Occipitalis (Fig. 407), " the occipital muscle," is situated at the back of the head. It arises from the outer two-thirds of the superior curved line of the occij)ital bone and the mastoid portion of the temporal, passes upward, and is inserted into the epicranial aponeurosis. It acts in direct line with the frontalis, and emjiliasizes its action—that is, the transverse wrinkles of the forehead caused by the frontalis are made more conspicuous when the occipitalis acts at the same time. Alternate contraction of these two muscles in some persons ]>roduces a fore-and-aft movement of the scalp. The occipitalis is a weak muscle, but what force it has is exerted in the direction of expression.349 THE FASCLE. By F. H. GERRISH. THE word fascia, meaning literally a " band" or " bandage," is applied to fibrou.-, membranous expansions of greater or less density, Avhich are wrap])ed around various organs, most conspicuously muscles, and serve to keep them in definite aiid intimate relation with one another. The term is also used to desig- nate certain strong, fibrous sheets which are stretched between bony parts. Fasciae are conventionally divided into two groups or varieties—the superficial and the deep. These terms, however, convey very little useful information about the organs to which they are applied. Some members of each group are struct- urally indistinguishable from typical specimens of the other. The ground of distinction upon which the names are based is their situation ; but one variety ■ will frequently be found to shade off by almost imperceptible gradations into the other, even on the same plane. In their typical forms, however, the superficial fascia is a loose, extensible structure; the deep fascia is firm, strong, and inextensible. THE SUPERFICIAL FASCIA. Immediately beneath the skin in almost every part of the body is a continuous layer of areolar tissue, which is called the mperficial fascia. In most cases it diifers in no essential respect from the areolar tissue in other localities : it contains fat-cells, it furnishes a suitable medium for the lodgement of vessels and nerves on their way to and from various organs, and it both connects and separates structures between which it is interposed—always the skin on one surface, and usually the deep fascia on the other. It varies greatly in thickness, in some places being extremely thin and delicate, and in others very thick and large- meshed, the belly and buttock furnishing striking illustrations of the latter con- dition. Though it usually permits free movement of the skin on the subjacent parts, there are notable exceptions to the rule, as in the jialm and sole, where it contains strong bands which lash down the skin tightly, and almost deprive it of mobility. The superficial fascia is in some parts peculiarly modified : in the scrotum it contains no fat-cells, has mingled with its fibrous tissues a quantity of uustriped muscle, and is known as the dartos; in certain places it becomes condensed into a fibrous film, as in the cribriform fascia, -which is stretched across the saphenous opening. Sometimes it is directly continuous with the other (deep) fascia, the latter thinning out and gradually losing itself in the areolar tissue. Occasionally the sujierfieial adheres to the deep along a line of considerable length, as on the thigh near the inguinal ligament, and thus a subcutaneous accumulation of fluid is steered off in a special direction, as would not be the case but for this peculiarity. Two distinct layers are found in certain situations, as on the front of the abdo- men, and they may differ considerably in structure, the more superficial generally containing more fat-cells, the deeper being more condensed. The veins which350 THE FASCES. course tlironjih thi^i tissue are in some situations large and oonspicnons, as on the dorsum of the liand and f(jot. Other organs are located in it, of which the most notable is the mammary gland. The occasions for calling this structure other than subcutaneous areolar tissue are very infrequent; and, as the name " fascia," unless limited by an adjective, is usually employed in surgical parlance to designate the deep fascia, it will be thus used in the remainder of this chapter, unless specific exception is made. THE DEEP FASCIJE. The typical deep fascije are close sheets of fibrous tissue, in which the white variety exists in an almost unadulterated form. On account of this histological composition these fascia? are pearly white, flexible, strong, and inelastic. Their structure and physical qualities immediately bring to mind the characteristics of ligaments and tendons, which have identical structure ; and the suggestion is especially apt for the reason that some fasciie are really interosseous ligaments, and a numl)er are properly to be regarded as tendons. Moreover, the employ- ment of the word "fascia" is ofttimes arbitrary, as, for example, in the case of the transversalis aV)dominis muscle, whose tendon of origin is almost always described as a layer of the lumbar fascia, and whose tendon of insertion is con- ventionally dubbed an aponeurosis, although in both situations the tendons are sheet-like expansions, which serve for the ensheathing of muscles. In this connection it is interesting and useful for the student to observe anew the continuity of the fibrous membranes—ligaments, tendons, and fascite blending with periosteum, tendons and fasciae serving as ligaments, tendons losing them- selves in fasciae, tendons of some muscles acting as fascise for other luuscles, and so on. THE FASCI-S: OF THE HEAD. A structui-c which may fairly be included in this group is the epicranial apo- neurosis, which has already been described in connection witli the muscles of the region (page 348). The Temporal Fascia. The temporal fascia has its superior attachment on the U]iper temporal ridge, its inferior on both borders of the zygoma, splitting into two layers just before reaching this arch. It encloses the ti'tTi])oral muscle, and is partially covered l)y the epicranial aponeurosis, the oi'bicuhiris ]ialpebrarum, attrahens aurem, and attolens aurem. The Masseteric Fascia. The masseteric fascia is directly contiinious with the cervical fascia. It covers the masseter muscle, and ends above at the lower border of the zygoma. In front it is in ])art attached to the coronoid process and in part blends with the buccinator fascia. Traced backward it is found to cover the parotid gland, and this portion is often called the parotid fascia. From the hind part of the last named a fibrous band is given off, connecting the angle of the lower jaAV-bone -with the styloid process of the temporal, the stylo-mandibular ligament. (See outer cervical fascia.) The Buccinator Fascia. The hncciiudor fascia covers the buccinator muscle. Above and below it is attached to the alveolar processes of the jaw-bones, behind is contiinious with the masseteric fascia, and in front gradually thins out into areolar tissue.THE CERVICAL FASCIA. 351 THE CERVICAL FASCIA. Tlie deep fascia of the neck is conveniently divided for description into three portions : the outer or superficial, the middle, and the inner or deep, all of which, however, are continuous (Fig. 408). The Outer Cervical Fascia. The outei^ portion forms a firm investment for the organs of the neck, its shape being suggestive of a hollow cylinder. Its upper limit extends from the MYLO-HYOID external occipital ^protuberance to the lower part of the symphysis of the mandible, attaching itself to the series of skeletal prominences most nearly coinciding with a line drawn around the head and inter- secting these points. Below it is fastened to the sternum, clavicle, acromion, and scapular spine, beyond the last named losing itself in the fascia of the back. Thus it includes, especially in its lower parts, somewhat more than the strict anatomical neck. It is at- tached" behind to the ligamentum nuchse, and in front it is continuous across the middle line. In its course around the side of the neck it splits twice, first embracing the trapezius, and then the sterno-mastoid, form- ing strong sheaths for these muscles. Traced from below upward in the region in front of the sterno-mastoid, it is found to be attached to the hyoid, from which it runs to its upper limit on the lower border of the mandible (Fig. 409). From the hyoid insertion it sends to the internal oblique line of the mandible u lamella, which lines the "MANDIBLE Fig. -109.—The outer cervical fascia between the hyuid and mandible. (Testut.)THE FASCIA. 352 under surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle. Thus it may be said that the fascia splits at the hyoid, and encloses between its two lamellje a space, which is triangu- lar in vertical section, and forms a chamber occupied by the submaxillary salivary gland. Below and in the middle line in front the fascia separates into two layers, one going to the anterior, the other to the posterior border of the toj) of the manu- brium (Fig. 410). From the front of the portion of the fascia which forms a sheath for the stenio-mastoid, and \\ here it is continuous with the masseteric fascia, a prolongation is given off forward and inward, is attached to the angle of the low"er jaw, passes behind the parotid gland, and ends by insertion into the styloid jirocess of the temporal, forming thus the stxjlo-mandihular ligament. The Middle Cervical Fascia. The miflrJlr portion of the cervical fascia—that is, the portion between the superficial and deep layers—lies close behind the front part of the outer layer (Figs. 410, 411), arching between the omo-hyoids of the two sides, forming a sheath for each of them, and extends vertically from the hyoid to the sternum, and laterally from one scapula to the other, its side borders corresponding w ith the omo-hy(jids. The part which ensheathes these muscles sends from each a band down to the sterimm and the cartilage of the first rib. From the point where the fascia is attached to the middle line of the stenuim a prolonga- LEFT BRACHIO- CEPHALIC VEiN TO VL^fEERAL COLUMN TO PERICARDIUM Fig. 410.—The cervical fascia between the hyoid and sternum. (Tcstut.) Fig. 411.—The cervical fascia in the clavicular region. (Testut.) tion of it encircles the left brachio-cephalic vein (Fig. 410), and then passes down into the thorax and blends with the pericardium. On each side it is fastened to the clavicle, gives off expansions which encase the subclaviaij vein, and then are attached to the first rib and become continuous with the neighboring tascije (Fig. 411). A continuation of the middle layer enters into the formation of the sheath of the axillary vessels and nerves. Prolongations also are sent inward and furnish the neck muscles with sheaths ; for the most jiart, however, these processes have not the firmness of the main layer, but are areolar in character. The Inner Cervical Fascia. The inner or deep lat/er of the cervical fascia, known also as the prevertebral, is continuous with the middle portion at the sheaths of the carotid arteries and internal jugular veins. It is attached above to the basilar process of the occipital bone, at "the sides to the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, and belowTHORACIC FASCIA. 353 gradually thins out and merger into the areolar tissue of the posterior medias- tinum. In front of it are the pharynx and oesophagus, behind it the prevertebral muscles. Peculiar interest attaches to these different portions of the cervical fascia on account of their influence upim the direction which accumulations of fluid will take when occurring in this region (Fig. 412). Fluid in front of the outer layer Fig. 412.—The cervical fascia as seen in sagittal sectiou. (Testut.) is confined to the subcutaneous region; between th,e outer and middle layers is kept from descending by the sternum ; between the middle and inner or pre- vertebral is guided into the pharynx and oesophagus, or possibly into the larynx; and behind the last layer may be steered into the mediastinum. THORACIC FASCIA. This name, though often limited to the fascia of the pectoralis major, is much more fittingly applied to the entire series of fasciae of the antero-lateral region of the chest, and is here employed in this sense. The Pectoral Fascia. The pectoral fascia (Fig. 413), thin and weak, covers the pectoralis major, and its attachments coincide with the margins of origin of this muscle. It turns around the lower border of the muscle and spreads upward over the hind surface. At the line where it makes the bend it is continuous with the true axillary fascia, a thick, strong membrane, which crosses the base of the armpit, describing an arch in its course, unites with the foscia which encases the latissimus, and through 23THE FASCIJE. 354 this last becomes attached to the spines of the thoracic vertebrae. At its outer side the axillary fascia merges with the sheath of the vessels and is continuous with the fascia of the arm ; it is also connected with the fascia of the shoulder. SUBCLAVIUS CLAVI-PECTO- RAL FASCIA SHEATH OF PEC- TORALIS MINOR PECTORALIS MINOR ■ "K; LATISSIMUS FASCIA OF LATISSIMUS SUSPENSORY LIGA- MENT OF AXILLA Fig sagittal section. AXILLARY FASCIA 413.—The pectoral ami axillary fascise, seen in (Testut.) The Clavi-coraco-axillary Fascia. This is a quadrilateral sheet which runs vertically from the clavicle and coracoid process above to the fascia of the armpit below, and lies just behind the pectoralis ma- jor (Fig. 414). It has a double attachment to the clavicle, one layer being in front, the other behind, and between them is lodged the subclavius, to which they furnish a strong sheath. The hind layer is continuous with the sheath of the axillary vessels, which extends downward from the cervical fascia. In the middle of its course the clavi-coraco- axillary fascia splits and closely embraces the pectoralis minor between its layers. From the lower (outer) border of this muscle it is again single, and, extending outward, unites with the sheath of the coraco-brachialis. The portion of the fascia above the pectoralis minor, being fastened internally to the first rib, is named the costo-coracoid membrane and davi-jjcdoral fascia. The upper- most part of it is the strongest, and is called the costo-coracoid Jir/arnent. The portion of the fascia between the pecto- ralis minor and the coraco-brachialis is triangular, its apex being at the cora- coid process, its base at the lowest part of the axilla. It serves to preserve the hollow of the armpit, and has, con- sequently, been named the suspensory ligament of the axilla. The Intercostal Fasciae. The external intercostal muscles are covered on their outer surfaces and the internal intercostal on their inner surfaces by the fibrous membranes, which are called respectively the ex- ternal and internal intercostal fascice. They are most pronounced in the por- tions of the ^naces between the ribs 414.—The clavi-coraco-axillary fascia of right uons oi ine spaces ueiween ine iius side, front view. (Testut.) which are not occupied by both va- rieties of these muscles. A thinner fascia separates the muscles of each space. THE FASCI.ffi OF THE SHOULDER. In the region of the shoulder are the subscapular, supraspinous, infraspinous, and deltoid fascite (Fig. 415).THE FASCIA OF THE FOBEABM. 355 The Subscapular Fascia. The svhscapular fa.seia is attached to the margins of the fossa of the same Fig. 415.—The fasckt Un.' -hoiiWer, set-u in liorizuntal section. (Testut.) name, and forms a covering for the subscapularis muscle. The Supraspinous Fascia. The supraspinous fascia, dense and strong, is attached to the borders of the fossa above the spine of the scapula, thus completing the osseo-fibrous chamber, which is filled by the supraspinatus muscle. The Infraspinous Fascia. The infraspinous fascia, is like the last named in structure and similar in arrangement, being attached at the edges of the lower fossa on the dorsum (jf the scapula, thus forming with the bone a cavity, which is completely occupied by the infraspinatus. "Where this muscle is overlapped by the hind Ijorder of the deltoid the fascia splits, one layer passing upon the latter muscle and forming part of the deltoid fascia, the other going in front of the deltoid and ending Ijy fusion with the fibrous structure of the shoulder-joint. The Deltoid Fascia. The deltoid fascia covers in tlie deltoid muscle. It is continuous behind with the infraspinous fascia, in front with the ])ectoral. It is fastened above to the bones from which the muscle takes origin, and is continuous below with the fascia of the arm. THE FASCIA OF THE ARM. The brachial fascia is continuous above with the pectoral and axillary fascite, as well as with that of the shoulder, and below with that of the forearm. It is attached to the condyles of the humerus and the olecranon process. It not only enwraps the muscles of the brachial region, but from its inner surface sends septa between tliem. The greater part of these partitions are merely areolar, but two are strong and rigid, and need especial mention. One of them is attached to the outer border of the bicipital groove, the outer condylar ridge, and the intervening portion of the shaft; the other is similarly situated on the inner side—thus being formed the external an([ internal intermuscular septa, which divide the muscles into an anterior and a posterior set. THE FASCIA OF THE FOREARM. The forearm fascia is a direct continuation of the brachial fascia above, and ends below in the fascia of the hand. It has attachments to the olecranon and the posterior border of the ulna. From its inner surface many septa are given356 THE FASCIA. off and extend between the muscles. For the most part these are areolar ; but near the elbow, where groups of muscles arise from the condyles, the fibrous partitions are well marked. Between the first and second layers of the flexor muscles is stretched a thin layer of fascia, and a similar one is found between the superficial and deep groups of extensors. The fascia is much thicker behind than in front. At the lower end of the forearm the fascia terminates in the so-called annular ligaments, anterior and posterior. The name implies a ring-like structure ; but each extends only half-way round the limb, and, while the posterior is almost entirely within the limits of the forearm, the anterior is wholly within the boundaries of the hand. The Posterior Annular Ligament. The posterior annular ligament (Fig. 417) is chiefly composed of transverse bundles of fibres constituting a broad and strong band, which has bony attach- ments on the inner side to the styloid ])rocess of the ulna, the cuneiform and the pisiform, on the outer side to the lower end of the external boi'der of the radius, and between these extremities to the vertical ridges on the back of the radius. In this way are formed six osseo-fibrous passages, lined with synovial membrane, and occujjied by the tendons of the extensor muscles of the forearm which are inserted in the hand. THE FASCIiE OF THE HAND. In the hand are the anterior annular ligament, the palmar fascia, the inter- osseous fascife, the superficial transverse ligament, the dorsal fascia, and the sheaths of the tendons of the digital muscles. The Anterior Annular Ligament. The anterior anradar lie/ainent runs transversely across the front of the carpus from the scaphoid and trapezium on the outer side to the pisiform and unciform on the inner, thus converting the groove of the carpus into a tubular passage, through which run the flexors of the digits. It is continuous above with the forearm fascia, and below with the palmar fascia. The Palmar Fascia. The palmar fascia is divided into three parts, a middle and two lateral. Of lhese the middle is the most important, and often no other part is intended when the term " palmar fascia " is employed. The middle palmar fascia is thick and strong, and seems to be in great part an expansion of the palmaris longus, though there appears to be no lack of the fascia in cases where the muscle is absent. Other portions originate from the anterior annular ligament. The fascia spreads out in fan-shape as it descends, is firmly adherent to the skin, and is inserted into the bases of the four fingers by a division for each. From these divisions slips are sent to the skin, the anterior metacarpo-phalangeal ligament, the sides of the neighboring metacarpal bones, and the digital sheaths, which will jjresently be described. From the lateral borders of the fascia a partition passes backward to the interosseous fascia, and in this way is formed a canal in which are lodged the tendons which traverse the palm. The kderal portions of the palmar fascia are thin, cover the thenar and hypoth- enar groups of muscles, and, extending around the borders of the hand, become continuous with the dorsal fascia. The anterior interosseous fascia, is a thin layer which lies in front of the inter- osseous muscles, and is attached to the anterior ridges of the metacarpal bones.357 777^: FASCIJE OF THE HAND. In the interdigital commissures is a thin band, which extends from the index to the little iinger, and forms the basis of the webs. It is called the superficial transverse ligament. The Dorsal Fascia of the Hand. This is a thin layer, continuous on each side with the lateral parts of the pal- mar fascia, above with the fascia of the forearm, and below with the sheaths of the extensor tendons. Between the metacarpal bones are stretched delicate fasciae, which cover the dorsal interosseous muscles. MEDIAN NEBVE LONG FLEXOR OF THE THUMB LONG FLEXORS OF THE FINGERS Fascial Sheaths of Tendons in the Hand. On the palmar aspect of the digits each flexor tendon runs in a tubular canal, made bv the concaved phalangeal surfaces and strong fibrous bauds, which arch over these from the lateral margins of the bon£s. The bands are called vaginal ligaments, because they help to form the sheath (vagina) of the ten- don. They are very dense op])Osite the shaft of the phalanx, much thinner opposite the joints. Each of the canals is provided with a vaginal synovial membrane (Fig. 416). Those of the index, middle, and ring fingers are independent, cylindrical sheaths, covering the length of two phalanges ; that of the thumb, also, is separate, and extends from about two inches above the radiocarpal joints to the inter- ])halangeal articulation ; and that of the little finger, starting a trifle higher in the forearm, reaches to the distal end of the second phalanx, and in- cludes also the flexor tendons of the other fingers as far as half-way down the palm. On the dorsal aspect of the hand a different arrangement obtains (Fig. 417). The tendons of the digital ex- tensors spread out upon the back of the first and second phalanges and l)lend at the sides with the lateral ligaments of the joints from the meta- carpo-phalangeal down, themselves acting as posterior ligaments. As has already been said, the posterior annular ligament forms with the hind surface of the adjacent bones of the forearm a series of tubular canals, through which extensor tendons pass. These channels are provided with vaginal synovial membranes, which extend above and below the limits of the ligament. They contain tendons as follows : the first—that on the radial border—the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the extensor brevis pollicis; the second, the extensores carpi radiales longus and brevis ; the third, the extensor longus pollicis ; the fourth, the exten- sor communis digitorum and the extensor indicis ; the fifth, the extensor minimi digiti; and the sixth—that on the ulnar border—the extensor carpi ulnaris. Fig. 416.—Synovial rnembranes of tendons palm, artificially distended. (Testut.) in the358 THE FASCIAE. THE FASCI-aE OF THE BACK. The Vertebral Fascia. The vertebral fascia is an extension downward of the back part of the outer layer of the cervical fascia. It stretches from the spinous processes of the thoracic vertebrae to tlie angles of the ribs, covering in the deep vertical muscles of the Fig. 417.—Synovial membranes of tendons in tlie dorsum of tlie forearm and hand, artificially distended. (Testut.) back, passing in front of the serratus posterior su2:»erior, and becoming continuous below with the lumbar fascia. The Lumhar Fascia. The lumhar fascia (Fig. 418) is, in reality, rather a combination of tendons than a true fascia of investment, although it serves also in the latter capacity. The latissimus, serratus posterior inferior, obliquus internus abdominis, and trans- versalis abdominis all participate in its formation. Regarded as a fascia, it springs from the vertebral column in three layers, the outer or po.sterior, the middle, and the inner or anterior. The outer layer begins at the tips of the spinous processes of the lumbar and sacral vertebrte, forming a direct downward continuation of the vertebral fascia. It is attached above to the last rib, and below to the hind third of the outer lip of the iliac crest and the ilio-lumbar ligament. The middle laijer stai'ts from the free ends of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae; and the inner letyer arises from the front of tlie bases of the same processes. The outer and middle unite at the outer edge of the erector spina?, which occupies the space between them ; and this double layer is joined by the inner a little farther away from the middle line, the enclosure thus bounded being filled by the qnadratus lumborum. The fascia resulting from the combination of the three layers gives359 THE fascist: of the abdomixal cavity. origiu to the transversalis abdominis ; the obliquus internus abdominis is inserted into a secondary lamella, Avhich splits olF from the outer layer ; and the latissimus and serratus posterior inferior arise from still another lamina, which separates from the main fascia nearer the median line. Fig. 418.—Scmidiagrammatic horizontal section of trunk to show the lumbar fascia and the tendons of the lateral abdominal muscles. The upper figure shows the complete sheathing of the rectus in its superior por- tions : the lower shows the arrangement in its inferior fourth. (Testut.) The front portions of the abdominal wall are largely ma<le up of the tendons of insertion of the external oblique, internal oblique, and transversalis muscles, and these tendons are fascife in the same sense that the different tendons are, which constitute the lumbar fascia; but they are rarely mentioned other than as apo- neuroses of insertion—a term which implies their tendinous character. THE FASCIA OF THE ABDOMINAL CAVITY. The abdominal cavity is everywhere lined with a serous membrane, the peri- toneum. Between this, which furnishes the free surface of the cavity, and the muscular portion of the abdominal walls is interposed a delicate membrane, which, in the greater part of the abdomen proper, is known as the transversalh fascia, on account of its intimate connectiim with the great muscle against "whose inner sur- face it lies, and, in the back part of the abdomen proper and in the pelvis, is called the iliac fascia, because the iliacus is one of the great muscles with which it is in chjse relation, the other l)eing the psoas. Each of these foscise is somewhat pro- longed beyond the abdominal cavity, as Avill presently be detailed. The Transversalis Fascia. The trausversalis fascia is thickest at the groin, gradually becomes thinner as it is traced upward, and is nothing but areolar tissue where it lines the under side of the diapliragm. It is attached to the inner l)order of the iliac crest, the outer half of Poupart's ligament, the spine of the pubic bone, and the ilio-pectineal line. Beneath Poupart's ligament, a little to the inner side of its middle, the great ves- sels of the thigh, the femoral artery and vein, are found, the vein nearer the median line of the body. In front of these vessels this fascia is ])rolonged, forming the anterior part of their common sheath (the femoral or crural sheath), the ])Osterior part being contributed by the iliac fascia. As the transversalis fascia escapes from the abdomen at this point, it is strengthened by a band, whichTHE FASCIu^. 360 curves over the vessels, and is called the deep crural arch. The inner portion of this arch is the part of the fascia which is attaclicd to the os pubis and ilio- pectineal line. Between the femoral vein and Gimhernat's ligament is a little gap, the femoral ring, through which hernia is most liable to occur in females, this being the weakest spot in the inguinal region of the members of this sex. It is the abdominal opening of the femoral or crural canal, and is occupied by a lymph-node and some fat. About half-an-inch above the middle of the inguinal (Poujjart's) ligament is an oval opening in the transversalis fascia, called the inter- nal abdominal ring. It is the beginning of the inguinal canal, the other end of which is in the tendon of the external oblique muscle, just above the crest of the pubic bone. Through this canal passes the spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament of the uterus in the female. In each case the ti'ansversalis fascia is extended upon the structure contained in the canal, forming a covering which from its funnel-shape is called the infimdibuliform fascia. The Iliac Fascia. The iliac fascia, lies upon the iliacus and j^soas muscles, Avhich, as has been said, arc intimately connected. The portion which covers the psoas is attached to the vertebral column coextensively with the front origin of the muscle, and also to the upper part of the sacrum. From this mesial origin it runs outward, its upper part joining the inner (antei'ior) layer of the lumljar fascia, its lower part blending with the fascia over tlie iliacus. Its upper end is attached to the liga- mentum arcuatnm internum. The portion of the fascia which invests the ihacus stretches from the inner mai'gin of the iliac crest to the iliac part of the ilio- pectineal line, and is also attached to the outer half of the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament. It accompanies the united muscles out of the pelvis into the thigh, and, running behind the femoi'al artery and vein, furnishes the posterior part of the sheath of these vessels, the front part of which is derived from the trans- versalis fascia. It finally becomes continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia of the thigh, at the line of fusion of the two a partition being given off between the psoas and pectineus to the ilio-jiectineal eminence and the capsular ligament of the hip. THE PELVIC FASCIA. In direct downward continuation of the transversalis and iliac fascife, Avhich lielong to tlie abdomen ]iro]ier, is the pelvic fascirt, which, as the name implies, lines that portion of the belly-cavity which is known as tlie true pelvis. Besides the osseous and ligamentous structures presenting surfaces in the pel- vic cavity, there are the internal obturator muscles at the sides, the pyriformis muscles behind, and the levatores ani and coccygei below. The levators arise along a line from the body of the pubic bone to the ischial spine, pass downward toward the median line, and there blend, thus forming the greatest part of the sagging floor of the pelvic cavity. This floor is perforated by the rectum, and in the female bv the vagina also, and it se])arates the pelvic cavity from the sub- jacent perineal or ischio-rectal space. All of these ]iarietal structures are lined by the ])elvic foscia, which also gives support to the viscera. Two ])rincipal portions of the pelvic fascia are recognized—the obturator fascia and the recto-vesical fascia. The Obturator Fascia. The obturator fascia, so named from its lying upon the surface of the obtu- rator internus muscle, is attached to the bone around the margin of the muscle, being continuous with the obturator membrane beneath the ol^turator vessels, and, extending back to the front of the sacrum, covers the ]iyriformis and the sacral nerves, in this region being much attenuated. This hind portion is sometimesTHE FASCIAE OF THE FERINEU2I. 361 called the jyyriformis fascia. As the obturator uiternus leaves the pelvis it takes with it a reflection of its fascia, which thus becomes continuous with the fascia which invests the muscles in the hip and thigh. The Recto-vesical Fascia. Along the curved line which marks the upper border of the origin of the levator ani (i. e., from the symjihysis pubis to the ischial spine) the fascia is somewhat thickened, and is called the ichite line (arcus tendineus, linea albuginea). From this line the recto-vesical fascia arises, and extends toward the median line in close contact with the upper surface of the levator ani. When it reaches the bladder, it splits into two layers, one of which spreads upward and disappears in the wall of this viscus, and the other j^asses downward upon the prostate gland, and thus forms its sheath. The portion around the prostate is continuous with the upper layer of the triangular ligament, which will presently be described. When the recto-vesical feseia reaches the rectum, its fibres intermingle with those of this intestine. In tli j female the fascia forms a partial covering to the vagina. Certain portions of the recto-vesical fascia are described as the true ligaments of the bladder; but the lateral and the posterior are generally so indistinct as to be demonstrable with difficulty, if at all, and only the anterior are constantly worthy of mention. A little to each side of the median line a fold of the fascia runs forward from the bladder, and attaches itself to the body of the pubic bone. This fold encloses a small bundle of muscular tissue, which is called, from the parts which it con- nects, the vcsico-pubic muscle. Thus are formed the anterior lir/nments of the bladder. Between these two ridges is a median depression, in which the fascia is thin. THE FASCIuE OF THE PERINEUM. The deeji fascia of the perineum forms a triangle with its apex forward. It extends nearly horizontally sidewise between the lateral walls of the pelvis, and ventfo-dorsally from the pubic symphysis to the central point of the perineum, which is about an inch in front of the anus. At the base of the triangle the fascia is single, but immediately splits into two layers, the superficial and the deep, between which are situated the constrictor muscle of the urethra, Cowper's (sub- urethral) glands, vessels and nerves, as well as a part of the urethra. From this last fact and its shape the fascia is most commonly known as the triangular liga- ment of the urethra. The superficial (inferior) layer stretches between the ischio-pubic rami, strengthened near the front by a fibrous band, called the transverse ligament of the pelvis. The deep (superior) layer is fastened laterally to the obturator fascia, just above the latter's attachment to the pubic and ischial rami. In the female the vagina perforates this fascia. The superficicd fascia requires more attention in the perineum than in most other localities. Its deep layer is rather firm and close, and is attached at the sides to the entire lower border of the ischio-pubic rami and the ischial tuberosi- ties. Its hind margin is united to that of the triangular ligament, between which structure and it are the transversus perinei muscles. Between this deep layer and the skin is the superficial layer, loose and areolar, its spaces occupied with fat- cells. The name ischio-rectcd fossa is applied to the considerable space on each side between the sagging floor of the pelvis and the osseo-muscular pelvic Avail. These fossfe are commonly filled with adipose tissue, which is continuous with that subjacent to the skin of the buttocks.362 THE FASCIA. THE FASCIA OF THE HIP AND THIGH. Tliese structures are not separated by a clearly defined boundary, and will be considered as one, which, on account of its gi-eat extent, is commonly called fd.scia htta {" the broad band"). It is cylindrical in shape, and extends from the highest margin of the hi^i to the loAvest limit of the thigh. At its upper end it is attached along an irregular line, ■which lies successively ii]>on the coccyx, sacrum, iliac crest, the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament, the body and descending ramus of the os pubis, ascending ramus and tuberosity of the ischium, and the great sacro-sciatic ligament, thus completing the circuit. It also has an attachment to the ilio-pectineal line, which M ill be mentioned again ])resently. It is continuous below with the fascia of the leg, is attached by its deep surface to the bony ]n'<iminences around the knee, and contributes to the formation of the capsular ligament of this joint. In most parts it is a single layer, but, in the region of the gluteus maximus, it has two lamellfe, which ensheathe the muscle, and a similar arrangement obtains in the case of the tensor vaginee femoris, otherwise called the tensor fasciae latte. The portion of the fascia on the outer aspect of the thigh is the strongest, and is called the ilio- tihlal band, from its attachments at the iliac crest and the outer tuberosity of the tibia. The fascia sends inward to the femur two hiterrimscvktr septa, which par- tition the thigh into an anterior compartment and a posterior, the former contain- ing the cpiadriceps and sartorius, the latter the other muscles. These septa, exter- nal and internal, have their osseous attachments respectively upon the outer and inner lips of the linea aspera and their upward and downward prolongations. Other and less important septa also occur. Just below the median end of the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament is an oval hole, measuring about an inch in its long (vertical) diameter, and called the saphenoKS opening, from its transmission of the long saphenous vein. The part of the fascia at the outer side of this aj^erture is the iliac portioti ; the part at the inner side is the pubic portion. The saphe- nous opening may be regarded as a notch in the upper border of the fascia, the angles of the notch overlapping each other without contact, so that the o])ening has not a continuous margin. The part of the margin which comes in front is continuous with the inner end of the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament; that which goes to the rear curves backward, and is attached to the ilio-pectineal line. The n])per, outer, and under portions of the rim taken together are sickle-shaped, and bear the name of falciform process. It is attached to the front of the sheath of the femoral vessels. Behind the plane of the saphenous opening are the uji^jer parts of the femoral vessels, enclosed in a funnel- shaped sheath, which lies close to the artery, but is separated from the vein by an interval. This space constitutes a passage, the femoral or crural cernal (Fig. 419), whose upper or abdominal end has already been described as the femoral or crural ring. It is through this canal that a femoral hernia descends. The saphe- nous opening is closed in by a thin layer of areolar tissue (superficial fascia), which, from its being perforated by many vessels, suggests a sieve, and hence is called the cribriform fascia. FEMORAL FEMORAL i/EIN GIMBERNAT'S LIGAMENT INGUINAL LIGAMENT PUBIC SPINE Fig. 4iy,—The femoral canal. (Testut.) THE FASCI-S: OF THE LEG. The principal fascia of the leg is directly continuous with that of the thigh above and that of the foot below. It is not, however, a complete enclosure for363 THE FASCIA OF THE LEG. the leg, being deficient at the places where the bony framework is subcutaneous. For example, at the inner surface of the tibia the fascia merges with the perios- teum at the borders of this area; and it is disposed in like manner at the heads of the tibia and fibula, and at the malleoli. It sends intermmcular partitions inward at several points, tlie most perfect of them being two on the outer side of the leg, which have bony attachments along the neighboring borders of the fibula, and separate the peronei longus and brevis from the front and back groups of muscles respectively. Between the muscles which are inserted into the calcaneum and the other posterior muscles is stretched the deep transverse fascia, attached to the tibia and fibula, and binding down the mus- cles in front of it. In the region of the ankle the fascia is strengthened and to some extent prolonged into the foot by a series of transverse bands, which nearly encircles the limb, each of its primary divisions being called an annular ligament. They are three in number—anterior, internal, and external. The anterior annular ligament (Fig. 420) consists of two parts, an upper and a lower. The upper band runs across the front of the leg between the anterior borders of the tibia and fibula, just above the malleoli, keeping the vertical tendons in place. The lower band begins on the outer side of the calca- neum, and splits into two layers at the outer bor- der of the peroneus tertius, one going in front and the other behind ; at the inner border of the extensor longus digitoruni the layers unite, thus forming a channel through which these two mus- cles pass. The band then divides into two branches—a superior, which goes upward to the front of the inner malleolus, and is there attached ; and a lower, which crosses to its insertion on the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bones and in the plantar fascia. These bands confine the tendons of the tibialis anterior and extensor proprius hallucis closely to the subjacent structures. Each of the last-named has a synovial sheath, but the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius have one in common. The internal annular liga- ment (Fig. 421) is stretched between the internal malleolus and the postero-inferior part of the inner surface of the os calcis. From its deep surfiice processes are given off to the neighbor- ing ridges of bone, thus forming compartments through which pass the tendons of muscles from the back of the leg to the sole of the foot, as follows : next behind the malleolus the tibialis posterior, then the flexor longus digitorum, and, finally, after an inter- val in which lie the vessels and nerves, the flexor longus hallucis. Each of the tendons has its separate synovial membrane. The external annular ligament (Fig. 422) runs from the tip of the external malleolus to the outer side of the calca- neum, binding down the peroneus longus and peroneus brevis, which are enclosed together in a single synovial membrane. Fig. 420.—The anterior annular liga- ment of the ankle and the synovial mem- branes of the tendons beneath it arti- ficially distended. (Testut.)364 THE FASCnE. THE FASCI-^: OF THE FOOT. The homology of the fascife of the foot and hand is so marked that it is nnnecessary to dwell minutely upon the former, the latter having been already described. That in the sole is called the 'planta7' fascia, and is divided into three parts. The central portion starts from the inner tuberosity of the calca- neum, runs forward below the flexor brevis digitorum, and terminates in front in a process for each toe and in slips for the skin. At the sides it is continuous with Fig. 421.—The internal annular ligament of the ankle Fig.422.—The external annular ligament of the and the artificially distended synovial membranes of the ankle and the artificially distended synovial mem- tendons which it confines. (Testut.) brane of the tendons which it confines. (Testut.) the lateral portions, which extend around the margins of the foot. Where the central portion joins each lateral a process passes upward, and thus are formed partitions between corresponding groups of muscles. The external lateral por- tion is attached behind to the calcaneum, the internal to the internal annular liga- ment. The interosseous fascife, the dorsal fascia, and the superficial transverse ligament of the toes, all are similar to their homologues in the upper limb, but the last named connects five digits, instead of only four. The tendons of the toes are kept in place by fibrous bands, and are provided with synovial membranes, as are the corresponding organs in the hand.365 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. THE blood is the vehicle by which nourishing materials are carried to the tis- sues, and many eifete substances conveyed away from them. It is contained in a continuous series of chambers and tubes, which constitute the blood-vascular system. The chambers are the compartments of the heart, and the tubes are the arteries, the capillaries, and the veins—including under the last term not only the veins projier, but also certain channels which are called venous sinuses. The arteries are the vessels which carry blood from the heart to the tissues ; the capil- laries are those through whose delicate walls the interchange of nutrient and waste matters takes place in the midst of the tissues; and the veins are the vessels which convey the blood from the tissues to the heart. The whole blood-vascular system is closed in the normal condition, and no blood escapes from it, with two exceptions, which are as follows : in the female, during the child-bearing portion of her life, there is a periodical discharge of blood through ruptured vessels ; and in the spleen of all persons the blood leaves the minute vessels, and flows through wall-less tubes in the parenchyma of the organ. In the entire blood-vascular system one structural feature is constant—the serous membrane which lines it. Muscular and fibrous coats in most parts ai^e found surrounding the serous, but they are not, like it, invariable. The import- ance of this smoothest of all membranes as a lining for the heart and vessels is appreciated, when we consider that any roughness of a surface over which blood flows causes clotting of the fluid, and this results in the plugging of vessels, and the consequent starvation of the parts which they should supply with blood. THE HEART. By F. H. GERRISH. The heart (Latin cor, or cardia) is tlie central organ of the vascular system. It is the force-pump which propels the blood through the vessels. In some animals it has but one cavity, in others it has two, in still others three. In man there are really two hearts, each having two chambers. The two hearts in the adult may be compared to a block of two houses, which are independent of each other except for the fact that the partition wall between them is common to both. During intrauterine life there is a door of communication between the upper chamber of one and the corresponding cavity of the other ; but this is closed at l)irth, and thenceforward the blood cannot get from one side to the other without leaving the heart and going by a roundabout path. These two hearts are called, on the basis of their independence, the 7'ifyht heart and the left heart respectively ; on the ground of their union, they are named the right side of the heart and the left side of the heart respectively. Both sets of designations ai'e misleading as regards the relative situation of the two organs (or sides of the same organ), for they are not placed right and left, but one—the right—is in front of the other. One chamber of each is called auricle, because of the resemblance of an appendage of it to an animal's external ear; the other366 THE BLOOD- VASCULAR SYSTEM. chamber is named ventricle, from its bulging like a prominent abdomen. The auricles are spoken of as if they were entirely on a higher level than the ventri- cles, whereas they are nearly on the same plane. Each auricle receives blood from veins, and delivers it to the corresponding- ventricle, which then discharges it through an artery. The Circulation of the Blood. The course of the blood is as fjllows : (Fig. 423) Beginning in the auricle of the right side, the Ijlood, which has just come from the tissues of the entire body, passes through the large aperture by which the auricle communicates with its ventricle, and which is called the right auriculo-ventricular opening; from the right ventricle it is driven through the pulmonary artery to the lungs, through the walls of whose capillaries it loses certain impurities and gains oxygen from the air, thus being changed from venous blood to arterial ; from the lungs it flows through the jiulmonary veins to the left auricle, thence through the left auriculo-ventricular opening to the left ventricle, whence it is forced into the aorta, the great trunk of the general arterial system, and by this and its branches it is distributed throughout the body. From the twigs of the arterial sys- tem the blood is poured into the ca])il- laries, and here parts with nourishing materials, synchronously receiving a load of effete substances, in this way being altered from arterial to venous. From the capil- laries it courses into the veins, which con- duct it to the right auricle, the place fi'om which the reckoning began. This descrip- tion of the track of the blood confirms the statement previ<iusly made that the com- munication between the right and left sides of the heart is not direct, through the par- tition wall, but is entirely indirect—it being necessary for the blood to go out of the heart and through the capillaries of some organ in order to get from either side to the other. The journey of the blood from the right heart to the left through the capillaries of the lungs is the less or pulmonary cir- culation ; and the passage of tlie blood from the left heart to the right through the capillaries of the organs of the body is the great or systemic circulation. It is to be noted that, in going through the lung-capillaries, the blood is changed from venous to arterial; and that, in its course through the capillaries of the general system, the reverse occurs—it is altered from arterial to venous. The kind of blood contained in a vessel does not, however, make the latter either vein or artery, as the pulmonary artery bears foul or venous blood, and the pulmonary veins are full of jiurified or arterial blood. Arteries carry blood, red or blue, from the heart; veins carry blood, blue or red, to the heart. The Tissues of the Heart.—The lining of the heart, like that of all other parts of the vascular system, is serous membrane, and is called endocardium (" within the heart"). The outer covering, too, is serous, and is called pericardium Fig. 423.—Diagram to sliow the course of the blood in passing from a given point through the two sets of capillaries to the starting point. (F. H. G.)THE HEART. 367 ("around the heart"). It -will be described in detail on a subsequent page. Between the endocardium and the pericardium is a middle coat, which is muscular and fibrous, and, on account of the enormous preponderance f)f the contractile tissue, is named myocardium ("muscle of the heart"). The muscular tissue is of the cardiac varietv. The arrangement of the bundles of fibres is extremely intricate, and not yet fully understixjd in all of its details. The Thickness of the Cardiac Walls.—The muscular walls of the right auricle are thin and so flabby that they fall together when the cavity is empty ; they have to drive the blood but a short distance—only into the ventricle—and through a very large opening. The right ventricle has thick, firm walls, so powerful that by them the blood is sent through the pulmonary artery and its branches, into and through the numberless capillaries of the lungs, through the pulmonary veins, and into the left heart. The left auricle has walls but little thicker than those of the right, yet quite equal to the trifling labor placed ui)on them—that of forcing the blood through the large auriculo-ventrieular orifice into the left ventricle. The left ventricle by its con- traction must drive the blood through the vessels of the systemic circulation ; and, as these are much more numerous s}io\Ting the shape of their cavities aud the relative , ' , ^» ] 1 1 thickness of their walls. vTestut.) than those ot the pulmonary set, and present, on account of their situation, far greater frictional resistance to the pas- sage of the blood in proportion to their number, there is necessity for vastly greater power in the ventricular walls, which, in fact, are three times as thick as those of the right ventricle (Fig. 424). The bulging of the interventricular septum into the right ventricle is due to this greater thickness of the j^arietes of the left; indeed, this .whole partition has the appearance of being formed by the latter. The auriculo-ventrieular openings and those of the pulmonary artery and the aorta are guarded l)y valves, which do not interfere with the passage of the blood in the course already described, but do serve to prevent a return of blood to a cavity from which it has been discharged. The heart is situated in the lower and front part of the chest, extending much farther to the left side than to the right. It lies obliquely, the auricles being at the right of and a little higher than the ventricles. The Right Auricle (Fig. 425), when viewed from the inside, presents a main chamber, the afriuui ("hall"), and a little ante-chamber, the cavity of the appendix, the latter being at the front and upper part of the auricle. A num- ber of openings are seen. At the l)aek the two veme cavce entei", the superior above, the inferior below. The floor of the atrium is largely formed by a trap- door, the tricuspid valve, which closes the oval auriculo-ventrieular opening. Several cardiac veins of considerable size, returning blood from the substance of the heart itself, open directly into the cavity. The largest of these is called the coronary sinm, and enters between the inferior vena cava and the auriculo- ventrieular orifice, its orifice being protected by a serous fold, the valve of Thebesius. There are also some very small veins, veme rninimce cordis (" the least veins (^f the heart"), whose apertures, together with others of similar appearance, which are said to be blind depressions, have been named foramina Thehem (" holes of Thebesius "). On the hind wall, which is the partition between the two auricles, is a shallow depression, the foiisa ovcdis ("oval pit"), bordered, except below, by a ridge, the annulus ovalis (" oval ring"). The fossa marks the site of a hole { foramen ovale), which exists in the septum auricularum (" partition of the auricles") in intrauterine life, and at birth becomes permanentlv closed bv a flap of membrane. Various projections from the surface are observed, someTHE BLOOn-VASCULAB SYSTEM. 368 being muscular, others merely folds of endocardium. A network of muscular ridges covers the wall of the appendix, and on the right wall of the atrium is a series of vertical bands of nearly equal size, not inaptly named musculi pccthutti ("comb-like muscles"). Connecting the margin of the inferior vena cava and the anterior edge of the annulus ovalis is a membranous fold, the Eustachian valve, which is prominent in proportion to the youth of the individual. In the fnetus it serves to guide the blood from the inferior vena cava through the fora- men ovale of the septum into the left auricle. Between the openings of the venae cavee is an indistinct projection, the tubercle of Lower. OPENING OF VALVE CORONARY SINUS Fig. 425.—Right auricle and part of right ventricle, the front wall having been removed. (Testut.) The Right Ventricle has an irregular cavity, concave in front and convex behind, where the neptum ventriculorum (" partition of the ventricles") bulges into it. There are two large openings—the auriculo-ventricular orifice, and that of the pulmonary artery, the latter being at the apex of the ivfundihulum, a somewhat funnel-shaped portion of the chamber toward the left side. The auriculo-ven- tricular opening is closed by the tricuspid valve, so called from its three con- spicuous segments. These are of unequal size and irregular shape, having ragged and frayed free edges, and between their attached borders frequently small secondary segments. One flap is at the left, one at the right, and one behind. They are composed of white fibrous tissue, and their attached borders are united to a fibrous ring, which encircles the orifice. At the junction of the pulmonary artery with the heai't is the pidmonary valve, made up of three fibrous festoons of semilunar shape (Fig. 429). The free edge of each is marked at its middle by a nodule, the corpus Arantii {" body of Arantius"). The attached margin is strengthened by a ring of fibrous tissue. Behind each flap is an enlargement of the arterial bore, making a little recess, the simis of Valscdva. Many large mus- cular prominences, colamnce carnece (" fleshy columns "), are observed everywhere, except in the infundibulum (Fig. 426). Of tliese there are three kinds : those that are sculptured in high relief from the wall—attached at both ends and all of one side ; those that are fastened at both ends and nowhere else ; and those that have only one extremity secured to the wall. The last are known as papillary muscles, because they stand out like nipjiles, and they are arranged in two princi-369 THE HEART. pal sets, anterior and posterior. From their summits project delicate tendons, chordce teiidinew, vfhich are inserted into the free edges and under side? of the flaps of the tricuspid valve. Running across the chamber obliquely is usually a prominent muscular beam, the moderator band. Action.—When the muscular wall of the ventricle contracts, the cavity is practically obliterated, and its contents are discharged. As soon as contraction begins, the tricuspid valve is closed, and, were it not for the special restraining apparatus, its flaps would be swept into the auricle, and the greater part of the blood in the ventricle would go with them. But the papillary muscles come into action simultaneously with all other parts of the wall, and pull the valve down- ward exactly to the extent that the blood tends to push it upward beyond the plane at which the free margins of its segments come in close contact. Thus regurgitation is prevented, and the blood is forced through the only other avenue of escape, the pulmonary artery. The con- traction of the ventricle ceasing, the dis- tended artery has a tendency to return some of its contents to the ventricle; but, as soon as the column of fluid starts back- ward, the semilunar festoons, which have been flattened by the outrush of blood from the heart, are closed Avith a snap, the accumulation in the sinuses behind them giving the first impulse, and the pressure of the fluid in the artery completing the act. In this way not a drop is allowed to regurgitate. The columnse carnese of the second and third varieties are useful in regulating contraction and evenly dis- tributing pressure, the moderator band being of especial service in preventing too 426.-The three varieties of columns great distention and in causing approxima- carnea;. (f. h. g.) tion of the opposite walls. The Left Auricle presents fewer irregularities of internal surface than does the right (Fig. 427). The musculi pectinati are less numerous and less pronounced. Toward the rear on each side are the orifices of two pulmonary veins. The posi- tion of the fcetal foramen ovale is indicated by a slight indentation on the septal wall. The auricido-ventricular opening is much like that in the right heart, but a little smaller. It is guarded by the bicuspid valve. The Left Ventricle has a capacity equal to that of the right, but its cavity has a ditferent shape, being ovoidal. In general features it strongly resembles the other ventricle. The three varieties of colurmm carnece are present; but, while these muscular bundles are more numerous, they are of less size. The papilhiry muscles are disposed in two series. A band, similar to the moderator of the right ventricle, but much smaller, crosses the chamber. At the uppermost part of the septum the wall is fibrous and very thin, constituting a weak area, sometimes called the undefended space. The auriculo-ventricuiar orifice and that of the aorta are verv close together, the former being toward the rear, the latter near the front. The auriculo-ventricuiar valve is called bicuspid, on account of its having two chief segments, and mitred, because these flaps, when open, are somewhat suggestive of a bishop's mitre (Fig. 428). One segment lies close to the hind wall, the other and larger is between the two orifices. Frequently small second- ary segments are found lietween the two great flaps. The valve is connected with papillary muscles by chordee tendinece, and in general features of structure is like the tricuspid, already described. The valve at the base of the aorta (Fig. 429) is a rejjetition of that of the pulmonary artery, except that in almost every respect its characteristics are more pronounced. The semilunar segments are situated 24370 THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. re8])ectively in front, at the left behind, and at the right behind. From the sinu;^ of the tirst of these is given off the right (anterior) coronary artery, and from that of the second the left (posterior) coronary artery springs. These vessels are Fig. 427.—Left aurick' mnl vciitriek', the hind wall of each having been removed. (Testut.) called coronary because they encircle the heart like the band of a crown. They are the first branches of the aorta, and feed the heart. Between the auriculo- FRONT Fig. 428.—Valves of the heart and great arteries, viewed from above, the auricles having been removed. (Testut.) ventricular and aortic orifices is a mass of mingled white fibrous tissue and white fibro-cartilage, from which are given off fibrous prolongations forming rings around the openings, and so stiffening their margins that stretching is prevented.371 THE HEART. The hulk of the heart has been said to be approximately that of the fist of its owner ; bnt to this rough-and-readv rule there are so many exceptions as to render it of little value. During life the diameters of the heart are constantly changing, and measurements made after death may be misleading. It increases in weight and volume with rather unsteady progression to the end of life. Its average weight in the male is about eleven ounces ; in the female it is somewhat less. Its blood-vessels are the coronary arteries and veins. It has numerous lymphatics. The nerve-supply is derived from the pneumogastric and from fibres of the cervical and thoracic ganglia of the symi)athetic. SEGMENT COBPUSi , FI E R O U S T H I C K E N- ARANTII POSTERIOR ING OF EDGE SEGMENT Fig. 429.—Aortic valves. The artery has been cut open between the right and left segments, and spread out. (Testut.) The External Configuration of the Heart. The Grooves of the Heart.—Tlie surface of the heart is marked by a series of grooves, Avhich indicate the superficial limits of the various cavities. Between the auricles and ventricles is the auriculo-ventricular groove, wliich is incomplete in front, where the anterior surface of the pulmonary artery is con- tinuous with that of the right ventricle. This vessel occupies the broad ventral depression between the auricles—the anterior interauricular groove. The posterior interauricular groove lies between the right pulmonary veins and the portion of the right auricle which connects the superior and inferior venae cavse. Between the ventricles are the interventricular grooves, which are continuous at the right of the apex of the heart. The anterior interventricular groove begins between the pulmonary artery and the left auricular appendix, and runs down- ward upon the ventral surface of the heart. Tlie posterior interventricular groove starts at the left of the inferior vena cava, almost in continuation of the posterior interauricular groove, and courses forward upon the inferior surface of the organ. The Surfaces of the Heart.—When the heart has been hardened while main- taining its natural relations with contiguous organs, it presents six surfaces, sep- arated from one another by borders, which are defined with varying degrees of distinctness. The Ventral Surface (Fig. 430) is slightly convex, irregularly quadrilateral, and looks forward and a little u])ward. It presents the front of the right ven- tricle, a part of the right auricle, f)f both appendixes, and of the left ventricle. The right (anterior) coronary artery is seen in the right anriculo-ventricular groove, giving off branches, of which the principal are the preventricular above, and the right (anterior) marginal below, the latter running to the left near the lower border. The anterior interventricular groove lodges a branch of the left (posterior) coronary artery and the great coronary vein. The ventral surfiice is bounded by the ill-defined right border, which falls upon the convex surface of372 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. the right auricle ; below by the antero-inferior border, which separates it from the inferior surface, and is so sharp that it is called margo acutus ; on the left by the left border, on the marked convexity of the left ventricle ; and above by the line of junction of the pulmonary artery with the heart, and by the upper margin of the appendixes. The Dorsal Surface (Fig. 431) is irregularly convex, looks backward, and pi'e- sents the greater part of the left auricle. Above are the horizontallv directed primary divisions of tlie pulmonary artery, the right and left pulmonary arteries ; at the right the posterior interauricular groove ; below, the auriculo-ventricular Fig. 4:30.—Front view of the heart. The auriculo-ventricular and anterior interventricular grooves and the vessels in them are not labelled, but cannot be mistaken. (From the His cast. F. H. G.) groove ; at the left a line leading downward from the left pulmonary veins, commonly marked by the oblique vein (of Marshall), which ends below in the coronary sinus. The Right Surface is convex, quadrilateral, and exhibits nearly all of the right auricle which is not included in the ventral surface. At the postero-inferior angle the vena cava inferior enters, and the vena cava superior is seen above. Behind is tbe posterior interauricular groove ; below, the auriculo-ventricular groove ; and in front is the right border, already mentioned. The Left Surface is unevenly convex and somewhat triangular. It presents above and bclu'nd a part of the left auricle, and in front, of this a portion of its appendix ; below, the left ventricle, tapering to the apex, and showing in theTHE HEART. 373 midst of this space the marginal branch of the left coronary artery and the left marginal vein; and, between the auricle and ventricle, the great coronary vein. The Inferior Surface is nearly flat, and looks downward and backward, con- forming to the sloping upper surface of the anterior portion of the diaphragm. Here are seen parts of both ventricles, separated by the posterior interventricular groove, which lodges the interventricular branch of the right coronary artery and the middle cardiac vein; and at the back and right a small part of the right auricle and the aperture of entrance of the vena cava inferioi*. The Upper Surface is small and irregular, and is occupied by the great vessels which form the bulk of the stem of the heart—the pulmonary artery, the aorta, and the vena cava superior. Fig. 431.—Rear view of the heart, showing the dorsal and inferior surfaces. The latter is represented as convex, but should be nearly flat. (Modified from the His cast. F. H. G.) The ventral, inferior, and left surfaces converge at the left anterior portion of the heart to a blunted point, called the apex. This is constituted entirely by the left ventricle, owing to the fact that the wall of this chamber is very much thicker than that of the right ventricle. The apex lies behind the space between the fifth and sixth co.stal cartilages, about three and a half inches from the middle line. THE PERICARDIUM. The pericardium ("around the heart") is the sac in which the heart is con- tained (Fig. 432). It consists of two parts : (1) an external, fibrous portion, and (2) an internal, serous portion. The fibrous bag, composed mostly of white fibrous tissue, somewhat loosely encloses the heart, and is attached to various structures in the immediate neigh- borhood. Inferiorly it is firmly adherent to the diaphragm, with whose centralTHE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 374 tendon its fibres are intermingled. It extends upward onto the great vessels for two inches or more, blending with their sheaths ; and in this region it is also con- tinuous with a downward prcdongation of the cervical fascia. In front it is con- nected with the breast-bone by two til)rous bands, the miperior and inferior sterno- pericardial ligaments; and the parietal pleura; arc adherent to its lateral surfaces. The serous membrane furnishes a lining to the fibrous bag, and is thence reflected onto the contained organs, giving them a closely attached covering. The lining of the fibrous pouch is the parietal portion of the serous membrane, and the clothing of the heart and vessels is the visceral portion, the latter sometimes being called the epicardium (" upon the heart"). Thus, the heart, which changes its position seventy times a minute all through life, is enabled to move with the least possible friction. The ]iericai'dium does not completely encase all of the vessels attached to the heart. The aorta and pulmonary artery are enclosed in one sheath, the others are only partially covered. Many pouches of pericardium are found between the vessels at the lines of reflection of the membrane. The arteries which supply the pericardium are the internal mammary, phrenic, pericardiac, a^sophageal, and bronchial. Its nerve-siqjply comes from the pneu- mogastric, phrenic, and sympathetic. THE PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. Before one studies the systematic anatomy of the blood-vessels, it is important that he should know their physiological anatomy. The few succeeding pages, therefore, will be devoted to a presentation of the principal features of the struct- ure of the different kinds of vessels, with especial reference to the relations between their histological composition and their functions.375 THE HEART. OUTER COAT The Arteries. The arteries (arterice) are the tulies by which blood is carried away from the heart. The name etymologically conveys the idea that tliese vessels are air- bearers, the ancients regarding them as performing the function of distributing air to the tissues, because they C(mtain no blood or other liquid after death. But although this belief was long ago exploded, the name is not altogether inappro- priate, and may be considered a propiietic blunder; for physiology demon- strates that the blood in the arteries is laden with oxygen, which is the essential nourishing ingredient in the air, and the most important element in the income of the body. The Coats of Arteries.—An artery has three coats—an inner, a middle, and an outer. The points of especial practical value about these tunics are as follows: the inner coat (tunica intima) is serous, like the lining of every other portion of the vascular sy.stem ; the outer coat (tunica adventitia) is composed of white fibrous tissue, with its bundles ELASTIC LAYER )m|DDLE , , • l- 11 1 , CONTRACTILE LAYER s COAT arraugccl lougituclinaliy ; and between . these two is the mkkUe coat (tunica media), made up of plain muscular and yellow fibrous tissues (Fig. 433). While this statement of the struct- Fig. 433.-Diagram of a cross-section of an artery, ^-6 of the arteries embraces the es- showing the composition of its tunics. (F. H. G.) • i p n i • i • i • i sential features oi their physiological anatomv, a somewhat detailed description will not be out of place. The inner coat has three layers : an epithelial, consisting of flat, polygonal cells ; a sub- epithelial, of white fibrous tissue, with sometimes yellow fibrous ; and an elastic, of yellow fibrous tissue, closely reticu- lated. The middle coat is composed of plain muscular fibres, arranged crosswise in lavers (Fig. 434j, between which there is more or less yellow fibrous tissue. ml i J. „ il „,l,£1 . Fii"'- -1?4.—Diagram of the arrangement of mus- rhe outer coat, mostly of white fibrous, cle-ceUs in an arteriole. (F. H. G.) contains yellow fibres. Thus it appears that each tunic has some elastic tissue, the bulk of which, however, is an ingre- dient of the middle one. The Functions of the Arterial Coats.—The inner tunic by its smoothness reduces the friction of the blood-current to its lowest terms ; the outer by its strength and toughness is protective ; the middle by virtue of its elasticity enables the vessel to return passively to its average diameter after it has been distended, and on account of its contractility serves actively to reduce the bore of the tube to less than its average. The larger the artery the greater is the relative amount of yel- low fibrous tissue ; and the smaller the artery the greater the relative amount of muscular tissue. The relativity of the quantity of these ingredients should be carefully noted ; for, while the comparative contribution of muscle to a minute artery is great, its absolute amount is very small. From these facts it may be inferred that the large arteries are very elastic and but slightly contractile; the small are highly contractile, and only feebly elastic; and those of medium size possess both of these attributes to a considerable extent, the one or the other pre- dominating according to the degree of nearness to the distal or the proximal limits of 1:he arterial system. Vessels and Nerves of Arteries.—Outside of the artery is an enclosing sheath of areolar tissue, in which are situated the nerves and blood-vessels of the artery itself. These are called respectively nervi arteriariim and vasa arteriarum ; but, as the veins are similarly provided, generic, instead of the above specific, names are more frequently used—nervi vasorum and vasa vasorum, respectively " the nerves of the vessels " and " the vessels of the vessels." In surgical operations376 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTE3L it is important to avoid unnecessary separation of the slieath from the artery, because the destruction of the feeding vessels of the latter deprives the part of its nourishment, and results in its death. The vasa vasorum are either branches of the artery which they supply, being given off a little distance above their areas of distribution, or else they are contributed by a neighboring artery. Tlie Branching of Arteries.—The arterial system is aptly compared to a tree, from whose trunk many large branches spring, each of these giving origin to smaller branches, and so on until the most diminutive twigs arc reached. Various methods of branching are observed in arteries (Fig. 435). Often an artery PLEXUS MAIN TRUNK Fig. 435.—Diagram showing the branchings, anastomoses, and confluence of arteries. (F. H. G.) divides into two terminal branches of nearly equal size, this method being called dichotomous, because the end of the vessel is split in two. Rarely an artery terminates in three approximately equal branches that diverge from the parent .stem, which hence is called an axis. Most branches spring from the sides of an artery, and are, consequently, said to be given off in its course. These lateral branches usually form acute angles with their trunk, but sometimes right angles, and occasionally obtuse. The sectional area, of an artery is always less beyond the point at which a branch springs from it ; but the combined sectional area of the immediate branches of an artery is always greater than that of the trunk from which they originate. Consequently, the capacity of the arterial .system at any given distance from the heart exceeds that at any plane proximal to this, and thus there is vastly more blood in the smallest arteries (arterioles) than in the aorta and pulmonary artery, which receive the fluid directly from the heart. Arteries generally pursue a course which is substantially straight or describes a generous curve ; but some are serpentine, presenting a tortuous ajjpearance, and this condition obtains in localities where the parts are liable to great changes of form, in some of which the vessel, if straight during quiescence, would be sub- jected to destructive stretching. The course of the blood in the arteries is, as a rule, from centre to periphery; but exceptions occur, as in the case of the so-called recurrent arteries, which run backward, carrying the blood toward the heart. These vessels are frequent aboutTHE HEART. 377 movable joints, and insure a plentiful supply of blood, when extreme flexion interferes with the direct and usual provision. When the distal end of one artery is united to the end of another, so that tlie blood can flow in either direction, the arrangement constitutes an anastomosis, because the tubes are " mouth to mouth," and is also called an inosculation, which means " a kissing by mouths." Frequently a number of arteries form many and free inosculations within a limited area, tlius making a network or plexus. Two arteries of equal size may unite, not by anastomosis, but to form a trunk, just as two venous radicles combine to constitute a larger vein. The vertebrals thus constitute the basilar artery. The Capillaries. At the periphery of the arterial system the vessels are microscopic, and con- sist of hardly more than the epithelium of the intima and a few scattered muscle- cells. When this imperfect contractile covering disappears, the vessel ceases to be an artery and becomes a capillary. The name capil- lary means hair-like; but these vessels are much finer than hairs, some of them having so narrow a lumen that a colored corpuscle of the blood cannot pass through it without being squeezed out of its normal shape. The length of a capillary is only a minute fraction of an inch. The wall of the tube is epithelial (Fig. 436), and is so thin that the materials of the blood pass through it into the sjiaces around the tissues, and the waste substances of the tissues traverse it in the opposite direction, and enter the l)lood. The capillaries are arranged in netwoi'ks. The fineness of the vessels and the size and shape of the areas between them vary greatly. Thus, in the muscles the capillaries run between the fibres, and for the most part have a direction parallel with the fibres, the longitudinal being connected by obliquely crossing vessels, and enclosing long, narrow spaces, bounded by nearly straight lines ; but in the air-vesicles of the lungs the capil- laries are tortuous, very large, irregular, and so closely placed that the distance between them in some places is less than their own diameter. Some capil- lary vessels come from veins instead of arteries. For example, the interlobular branches of the portal vein give off the capillary plexus within the lobule, and from this the blood is collected by the intralobular vein. Fig. 436.—Capillaries, showing the shajje and arrangement of the cells which make their wall. (Car- penter.) The Veins. The veins are vessels which conduct the blood from the periphery toward the centre of the vascular system. They begin where the capillaries end. As the loss of the last semblance of a middle coat changes an arteriole into a capillary, so the addition of a tunic, however scanty, to a capillary converts it into a venule (" little vein "). The venous system is comparable to the portion of a tree which is in the ground. It begins in rootlets at the distal end of the capillaries (Fig. 437). These minute veins are properly called radicles, and the same term is used to designate veins of any size, which by their confluence form a larger ves- sel. They are often called branches instead of radicles ; but the term " branches " should be restricted to vessels resulting from division rather than from union. The desirability of the distinction is perceived in cases where a vein divides into two or more veins. The last are clearly branches of a parent stem, but, at the same time, are radicl&s of one or more veins nearer the heart.THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 378 The veins are more numerous tlian the arteries, and the capacity of the venous system is considerably greater than that of the arterial. The veins have a structure, which in the main, is like that of the arteries ; hut there are such variations of detail that, in some resjjects, the two sets of vessels l)ehave very diiferently. The inner coat is essentially like the arterial intima, with the addition of numerous transverse folds, which, strengthened by plates of white tiln'ous tissue, form valves (Fig. 438). The middle funic is thinner than that of the arteries of comparable size, contains less muscle, more white fibrous, and only a little yellow fibrous tissue. The external coat is very like that of the arteries. This combination results in vessels which are very strong, capable of sustaining more strain than arteries without giving way, but so flabby that they collapse when emptied of PLEXUS Fig. 437.—Diagram, showing the formation of large veins bv convergence of small, and the branching of veins. (F. H. G.) Fig. 438.—Valves of veins. A shows a vein cut open between the segments of two valves. B shows appearance of valves closed and open. (Testut.) blood ; whereas arteries, stiffened as they are with elastic and a large amount of muscular tissue, stand ojien in similar circumstances. The valves are not found in all veins. They generally have two flaps each, which are directed toward the heart, when open. At the base of each valve the vein bulges, forming a sinus, into which the blood enters as soon as any obstruc- tion to its flow occurs, and causes instant closure of the valve. A few exceptions are found to the rule that capillaries intervene between arterioles and venules. In the interior of erectile organs small arteries may open directly into venous cavities ; and in the spleen the arteries discharge into the interstices of the organ.379 THE ARTERIES. By a. D. BEVAN. THE arteries are the vessels which carry the blood from the right and left ventricles of the heart to all parts of the body. There are two sets of arte- ries, the pulmonary (" lung "), and the systemic. Each system begins as a single tube, continues as a single tul^e for a short distance, and then divides into branches. Each system resembles a tree with its trunk and branches. In studying each system the student should regard it as a whole, remem- bering that many of the divisions made are artificial, and that the whole system forms one continuous series of tubes. In the study of the arteries the student should follow some systematic plan, which will so fix in his memory a picture of the origin, and course, and relations of the arteries to surrounding structures, that this knowledge can be of service to him in his practical work. The pulmonary system is simple and easily mastered; the systemic requires much study. In studying the systemic system the student should make a sylla- bus of the entire system ; then, beginning with the aorta, he should study each anatomical division separately, and should learn of each vessel the following facts : Its origin, course, termination, relations, branches, distribution, anasto- moses, variations, and surgical anatomy. In studying the vessels the drawing of longitudinal sketches and of sketches of ti'ansverse sections of the limbs and trunk at different levels, showing the position of the vessels and the relation of the vessels to surrounding structures, will be found to be of great value. The vessels are best studied in the dissecting-room, but another valuable method of studying them is upon a living model. The external landmarks which guide the operator in the finding of, or in the avoiding of, a vessel in an operation are best fixed in the mind by the study of the living model. We shall follow therefore in this description of the systemic arteries the course outlined : I. A syllabus of the entire system. II. A detailed description of each vessel, giving its origin, course, termina- tion, branches, distribution, relations, anastomoses, variations, and surgical anatomy. We shall combine the study of the longitudinal course of the arteries with that of the vessels in transverse section, and shall study also the surgical anatomy involved in the ligation of the arteries. Before taking up the study of the systemic arteries, let us disjjose of the pulmonary system, which can be briefly done. THE PULMONARY ARTERIAL SYSTEM. The Pulmonary Artery (Fig. 439) carries the venous blood from the right ventricle to the lungs. Its orir/in is from the right ventricle; its course is upward, backward, and to the left for the distance of two inches, the vessel being contained in the pericardial cavity. Its termination is at a point beneath the transverse portion of the aorta o])posite the fifth dorsal vertebra. Here it die ides into the right and left pulmonary. Its relations are as follows :THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 380 Fig. 439.—The pulmonary artery. The front part of the right lung has been removed, and the pulmonary vessels and the bronchial tubes are thus exposed. (Testut.) In front. Sternum and pericardium. To the left. Pericardium. Pulmonary Left pleura. Artery. Left auricle. Left coronary artery. Behind. Arch of aorta and left auricle. Its branches are the right and left pulmonary. The right pulmonary artery passes beneath the aortic arch to the right lung, breaks up into three sets of branches supplying the upper, the middle, and the inferior lobes. The left pnlmonary artery passes in front of the descending aorta to the left lung, and breaks up into two sets of branches supplying the upper and lower lol)es. It is to be remembered that the pulmonary arteries carry venous blood to the lobules of the lungs, in which it experiences the changes produced by the func- tion of respiration, the structure of the lungs being supplied with arterial blood by the bronchial arteries, branches of the descending aorta. The branches of the pulmonary arteries do not anastomose with each other : they are terminal arteries. Passing from the pulmonary artery to the arch of the aorta is a fibrous cord, the remains of the ductus arteriosus, a vessel, which in the fcetal circulation carries the blood sent through the pulmonary artery into the aorta. After birth this soon disappears; but, as an abnormality, it may persist. To the right. Ascending aorta. Eight auricle. Right coronary artery.381 THE ARTERIES. A SYLLABUS OF THE SYSTEMIC ARTERIAL SYSTEM. The systemic arterial system begins as the aorta from the left ventricle at a point behind the left half of the sternum on a level with the lower border of the third costal cartilage. From this point it passes upward, forward, and to the right, to a point on a level with the upper border of the second costal cartilage. It then curves backward and to the left, to the lower b(jrder of the fourth thoracic vertebra ; and then passes downward on the bodies of the thoracic vertebrae, being placed in a position to the left of the median line at first, but gradually approach- ing the median line as it passes downward. The vessel then passes through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, passes downward on the bodies of the upper four lumbar vertelirse, and on the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra divides into the two common iliac arteries. The aorta is divided into three portions, an arcli extend- ing from its origin to the lower body of tl:ke fifth tlioracic vertebra, the thoracic aorta from the lower border of the fifth thoracic to the aortic opening in the dia- phragm, and the abdominal aorta from the aortic opening in the diaphragm to the body of the fourth lumbar, its point of division into the common iliacs. Imme- diately above the aortic valves the arch gives off two vessels, the right and left coronary arteries, which supply the heart. The transverse portion of the arch, as a rule, gives off three vessels, the brachio-cephalie (innominate), the left coramon carotid, and the left subclavian. The brachio-cephalie (" arm-head") is a short vessel, an inch and a half in length, extending from the transverse portion of the arch to the right sterno-clavicular articulation, where it divides into the right common carotid and rigid subclavian. Thus the right subclavian and right carotid differ in their origin and leng-th from the left subclavian and left carotid. The common carotid on both sides terminates at the superior border of the thyroid cartilage, by dividing into the internal and externcd carotids, and, as a rule, the common carotids have no other branches. The external carotid terminates a lit- tle below the condyle of the jaw by dividing into the temporal and internal max- illary. The external gives off in addition to its two terminal branches mentioned, the superior thyroid, the lingucd, the facial, the occipitcd, the posterior auricular, and the ascending pharyngeal. Speaking broadly, it supplies the structures of the neck and the face (with the exception of the contents of the orbit and the integument of the forehead), the scalp, and the greater portion of the dura mater. These branches of the external carotid again subdivide into branches which will be studied in detail later. The internal carotid which begins at the superior border of the thyroid cartilage passes up to and thi-ough the carotid canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, enters the cranial cavity, and breaks up into branches which supply the greater part of the brain and contents of the orbit; the vertebral, a branch of the subclavian, as we shall find, assists the carotid in supplying the brain. The subclavian artery begins on the right side from the brachio-ccphalic, on the left from the arch of the aorta, and passes outward to the lower border of the first rib, where the vessel changes its name and becomes the axillary. The sub- clavian is divided into three portions according to its relation to the scalenus anterior. It gives off as branches the thyroid axis, the vertchred, the internal mammary, and the supenor intercostal. The axillary he^ms, at the lower border of the first rib and extends to the lower border of the axillary space, where the ves- sel changes its name and becomes the brachial. The axillary is divided into three parts according to its relation to the pectoralis minor muscle, which is in front of it. The axillary gives off the superior thoracic, the acromio-thoracic, the long thoracic, the alar thoracic, the subscapular, the anterior and posterior circumflex. The brachial extends from the lower border of the axillary space to a point a half inch below the elbow, where it divides into the radial and idnar. It gives off in its course the superior profunda, muscular, nutrient, inferior profunda, andTHE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTE3L 382 anastomotica magna. The radial extends from the point of bifurcation of the brachial to the palm of the hand, where it forms the deep palmar arch, anasto- mosing with the deep branch from the ulnar. It gives off in the forearm the radial recurrent, the muscular, the anterior carpal, and the superficial is voke; in the wrist, the posterior carjjal, the metacarptal, the dorsalis indicis, and dorsalis poinds ; in the hand, the pn-inceps pollicis, the radicdis indicis, the perforating, and interosseous. The ulnar begins a half inch below the elbow, and like the radial extends into the hand, terminating in the superficial jxdmar arch, anasto- mosing with the superfieialis voli®. In the forearm it gives off the anterior tdnar recurrent, the posterior ulncir recurrent, the interosseous, which divides into an anterior and posterior branch, and muscular. In the wrist it gives off anterior and p>osterior carpal branches, and in the hand the deep communicating branch and the digital. Returning to the aorta, we find that the thoracic jjortion, which begins at the lower border of the fifth thoracic vertebra and terminates at the aortic opening in the diaphragm, gives off bi'anches as follows : ptericardial, bronchial, (esophageal, pjosterior mediastinal, and intercostal—these branches supplying the walls and contents of the thorax, with the exception of the heart-substance, Avhich is suji- plied by the coronary arteries. The abdominal aorta begins at its opening in the diajihragm, and terminates on the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra by dividing into the common iliacs. It gives off as branches the plirenic, the cceliac axis, the superior mesenteric, the renal, the suprarenal, the spermatic, the inferior mesenteric, the lumbar, and the sacral arteries. These vessels as a grouj) su]>ply the walls of the abdominal cavity and the viscera contained within that cavity. The common iliac begins on the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra and extends to the intervertebral substance between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. Here it divides into the internal and externcd iliac arteries. The common iliac gives off no branches of importance in its course. The internal iliac extends from the intervertebral substance between the last lumliar vertebra and sacrum to the upper margin of the great sacro-sciatic notch, where it divides into an anterior and posterior trunk, the anterior giving off as branches the superior vesical, the middle veMcal, the inferior vesical, the middle hemorrhoidal, the obturator, the interned pudic, and the sciatic; also, the uterine and vaginal in the female. The posterior trunk gives off the ilio-lumbar, the latercd sacral, and the gluteal. As a group, the branches of the internal iliacs supply the walls and viscera of the pelvis. In addition to this, the gluteal, sciatic, and obturator supply the buttock and back ])art and internal surface of the thigh, and the internal pudic supplies the perineum and external organs of generation. The external iliac extends from the termination of the common iliac to the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament. Here it changes its name and becomes the femoral. In its course it gives off two vessels, the deep epigastric and circumfl.ex iliac. The femoral begins at the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament and extends to the femoral opening in the adductor magnus muscle. Here it passes into the popli- teal space and becomes the p)op}liteal. In its course it gives off as branches the superficial epigastric, the superficial externcd pudic, the supjerficied circumflex iliac, tlie deep external pudic, the jjj-ofunda, the muscular, and the anastomotica magna. The profunda, which is a large trunk, gives off as branches the external circumflex, the internal circumflex, and the three ■perforating arteries. The femoral with its branches supplies the thigh. The popliteal extends from the opening in the adductor magnus muscle to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and here divides into the anterior and pjosterior tibial arteries. In its course it gives off muscular branches, superior and inferior cutaneous, superior external articular, superior internal articular, azi/gos articular, inferior external articular and inferior internal articular arteries, which as a group supply the tissues in the popliteal space and the knee-joint. The anterior tibicd begins at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, per-THE ARTERIES. 383 forates the interosseous membrane, and passes to the anterior surface of the leg, and thence down to the bend of the ankle, where it changes its name to dorsalis pedis. In its course in the leg it gives off as branches the recun-ent tibial, mus- cular, internal malleolar, and external malleolar arteries. The dorsalis pedis extends from the bend of the ankle to the back part of the first interosseous space, where it divides into the dorsalis hallucis and communicating. It gives off as branches the tarsal, the metatarsal, and the interosseous, which supply the dor- sum of the foot and toes, and the communicating, which anastomoses with the external plantar, thus completing the plantar arch. The posterior tibied passes down the back of the leg to the concavity between the heel and inner ankle, where it divides into the internal and external plantar arteries. In its course it gives off as branches the peroneal, anterior peroneal, muscular, nutrient, comrnunicatinf/, and internal calcanear arteries, which as a group supplv the l)aek of the leg and heel. The internal plantar begins at the point of division of the posterior tibial, and runs forward along the inner side of the great toe, wliieh it supplies. The external plantar passes forward in the sole of the foot, and forms bv anastomosing with the communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis, the plantar arch, which gives off posterior perforrding, digital, and anterior perforating branches, and supj)ries the sole of the foot and the toes. The student is strongly advised to draw a rough longitudinal sketch of the entire arterial system following the syllabus given above. This sketch should show the origin, course, termination, and branches of each vessel; as later the vessels are studied in detail, sketches of special portions of the arterial system, as the circle of Willis, the vessels in the triangles of the neck, the axillary space, Scarpa's triangle, the popliteal space, etc., should be made ; also sketches of cross- sections of the trunk, neck, and upper and lower extremities at different levels, showing the position of the vessels, and their relation to surrounding structure. Such a method will materially aid the student in the study of the arteries in the dissectins-room and on the living; model. THE AORTA. The aorta is the main trunk of the systemic system. It begins at the left ven- tricle and terminates on tlie body of the fourth lumbar verteljra by dividing into the common iliacs. It is divided anatomically into three portions, the arch, tlie thoracic aorta, and the abdominal aorta. The arch of the aorta extends from the left ventricle to the lower border of the body of the fifth thoracic vertebra ; the thoracic aorta from tliis point to the aortic ojiening in the diaphragm ; the abdomi- nal aorta from the aortic opening in the diaphragm to the termination of the ves- sel on the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra. The aorta is divided by some anatomists into an ascending aorta, an arch, and a descending aorta, the ascend- ing aorta corresponding to the ascending portion of the arch in the description wliich will be followed here, tlie arch corres])onding to the transverse portion of the arch, and the descending aorta beginning at the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra, and, therefore, including the descending portion of the arch of the division here adopted. THE ARCH OF THE AORTA. The arch (Fig. 440) is divided into three portions : an ascending, a transverse, and a descending portion. The Ascending Portion of the Arch.— Origin : the left ventricle opposite the lower border of the third costal cartilage and behind the sternum. Course, upward and to the right to the ujiper border of second costal cartilage. Termination : here the ascending portion bends backward and to the left, and becomes the transverse portion of the arch.THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 384 LEFT AURICU- LAR APPENDIX •LEFT VENTRICLE BRONCHIAL TUBES Fig. 440.—Arch of the aorta and its branches. (Testut.) Relations. In front. Pulmonary artery. ApjK'iidix of right auricle. Pericardium and sternum. At the rif/hf. Superior cava and right auricle. Ascending portion of arch. .1; the left. Pulmonary artery. Belli nd. Root of right lung. The Transverse Portion of the Arch.— Origin, on a level with the upper border of second costal cartilage, at which point the aortic arch turns backward and to the left. Termination, at the lower border of the fourth thoracic vertebra. Relations. Above. Left brachio-eejihalic vein. Brachio-cephalic artery. Left carotid. Left subclavian. Ill front. Left lung and pleura. Transverse Left pneumogastric nerve. portion Left phrenic nerve. of arch. Behind. Trachea. CEsophagus. Thoracic duct. Left recurrent nerve. larvnprealTHE ARTERIES. 385 Below. Bifurcation of pulmonary artery. Left recuiTent laryngeal nerve. Root of left lung. The Descending Portion of the Arch.—This is that portion of the aorta in front of the body of the fifth dorsal vertebra and the intervertebral disc above it. Relations. In front. Pleura. Root of left lung. Right side. Left side. OEsophagus. Descending portion Pleura. Thoracic duct. of arch. Behind. Body of fifth dorsal vertebra. The branches of the arch are the right and left coronary arteries, which arise from just above the anterior and left flaps of the aortic valve ; the brachio- cephalic, the left common carotid, and the left subclavian from the transverse portion of the arch. Varieties.—The position of the vessel varies. It may reach as high as the top of the sternum, or its summit may be as low as the fifth dorsal vertebra ; the failure of normal development of the aortic arches of the foetus may result in the persistence of the ductus arteriosus ; there may be persistence of a septum within the vessel, dividing it into two tubes; the presence of a right instead of a left aortic arch, this last being sometimes accompanied with a transposition of the viscera; the presence of a double aortic arch, one on the left, the other on the right, these passing backward, embracing the oesophagus, and uniting to form a single thoracic aorta. The number of branches given off from the transverse por- tion of the arch varies from one to six ; a single trunk may be given off which then divides into the great vessels of the neck and upper extremities. There may be two branches, a right and left brachio-cephalic, or two branches, a right sub- dividing into the right subclavian, right common carotid, and left common carotid, the other branch being the left subclavian. Four vessels may be given off—right subclavian, right carotid, left carotid, and left subclavian ; or four vessels may exist in which the usual brachio-cephalic, the left carotid, and left subclavian are present, but in which the left vertebral arises as a separate trunk from the arch. Five vessels may exist in a case like the above in which the brachio-cephalic is absent, and where we find a right subclavian, right common carotid, left common carotid, left vertebral, and left subclavian arising as separate branches of the arch. Cases of six branches are the same as the above, except that the right ver- tebral is added as a separate trunk. The surgical anatomy is of special interest in the study of aneurism, which occurs more frequently in the aorta than in any other artery. The relations of the arch of the aorta to surrounding structures should be studied with reference to the effects of the pressure produced by aneurism upon them, and the resulting symptoms. Aneurism of the ascending portion of the arch may by pressure produce absorption of the costal cartilages, sternum, and ribs, and present itself as a pulsating tumor to the right of the sternum, event- ually rupturing and producing death. Aneurism of the transverse portion may produce pressure on the oesophagus, producing olifficult deglutition, and simu- lating stricture of the oesophagus. Such an aneurism may also j^roduce pressure on the trachea and bronchi, the thoracic duct, and the great veins within the 25THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 386 thorax, and interfere with the normal function of these structures. An interest- ing symptom is hoarseness and loss of voice, due to pressure on the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Branches of the Ascending Portion of the Arch.—The coronary arteries are two in number. The rigid coronarj/ arises from the aorta above the right (anterior) flap of the aortic valve; it winds to the right in the groove between the right auricle and ventricle, until it reaches the septum between the right and left ven- tricles posteriorly. Here it divides into two branches, one continuing in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle ; the other passing downward in the groove between the ventricles to the apex of the heart. The left corouary arises from above the left segment of the aortic valve, passes forward and to the left behind the ^iulmonary artery, and divides opposite the septum between the right and left ventricles anteriorly into two branches, one descending in the groove between the ventricles to the apex of the heart, the other running to the left and backward in the groove between the left auricle and the left ventricle. The coronary arteries supply the heart-muscle, and send small branches to the contiguous portions of the aorta and jjulmonary artery. The Branches of the Transverse Portion of the Arch.—These are the brachio- cephalic, the left common carotid, and the left subclavian. THE BRACHIO CEPHALIC ARTERY. The brachio-cejJia/ic (innominate) artery is a short trunk of about an inch and a half in length, and is the first branch of the transverse portion of the arch. Origin, from the transverse portion of the arch opposite the upper border of the second costal cartilage. Course, upward and to the right. Termination, at the sterno-clavicular articulation by dividing into the right common carotid and right subclavian. Relations. In front. Sternum. Sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. Left innominate and left inferior thyroid veins. Bight side. Right brachio-ce]>halic vein. Right pneumogastric nerve. Pleura. Brachio-cephalic artery. Left side. Left carotid. Left inferior thyroid vein. Trachea. Behind. Trachea. Variations.—The brachio-cephalic may be absent, the right common carotid and subclavian springing directly from the aorta. It may be longer or shorter than usual—less than an inch, or more than two inches in length. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 442).—The brachio-cephalic may be the site of aneurism, and from its deep position produce pressure-symptoms resembling aneurism of the arch of the aorta—?'. e., pressure on the trachea, recurrent laryn- geal, oesophagus, roots of the lungs, and the great vessels. The lirachio-cephalic has been ligated for aneurism of the carotid and subclavian, but the results have not been encouraging ; and although the operation is not a standard surgical ])rocedure and one rarely performed, the description of the dissection necessary to expose the vessel for ligation will be of value in fixing in the student's mind the relation of surrounding structures, and will therefore be given here. The subject is placed on the table with a block beneath the shoulder, so that the head and neck fall backwai'd, and an assistant draws the right up]ier extremity downward so as toTHE ARTERTES. 387THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. 388 draw the clavicle downward, and expose as mucli of the vessel as possible. An incision fonr inches in length is made on the inner border of the sterno-cleido- mastoid, extending to the sterno-clavicular ai'ticulation. A second incision of the same length is made over the clavicle parallel with it, meeting the first incision. These incisions divide the skin, superficial fascia, and platysma myoid ^SUBMAXILLARY GLAND STYLO-HYOIDEUS AND DIGASTRICUS -DESCENOENS HYPO- GLOSSI NERVE 'OMOHYOIDEUS STERNO-THYROIDEUS STERNO-HYOIDEUS TRANSVERSE JUGULAR VEIN AXILLARY VEIN ANTERIOR THORACIC NERVES SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY PECTOHALIS MINOR DELTOIDCUS INTERCOSTALIS INTERNUS PLEURA STERNUM PECTORALIS MAJOR INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY I Fig. 442.—Surgical ix-laiimis tiT tln' lingual, external carotid, Common carotid, brachio-cephalic, subclavian, and internal mammary arteries. (Kocher.) muscle, and expose to view the sterno-cleido-mastoid. This should be divided completely across at a point one and a half inches above the sternum, and the lower part turned downward and held out of the way. The sterno-thyroid and sterno-hyoid muscles come now into view, and are divided in the same wa3^ This usually exposes the inferior thyroid veins, which are either carefully pushed out of the way, or are ligated at two ]ioints, and divided. The common carotid is now exposed, and followed downward until the brachio-cephalic is reached. The left brachio-cephalic vein crosses the artery in the lower half of its course, the389 THE ARTERIES. riglit l^rachio-cephalic vein and the pneumogastric nerve are to the right of the vessel, and the pleura and trachea are behind. In passing an aneurism-needle it is best passed from the right to the left behind the vessel, care being taken to avoid injury to the pneumogastric nerve, the brachio-cephalic veins, and the pleura. Branclies.—In addition to the terminal branches, the right common carotid and right subclavian, the brachio-cephalic occasionally gives off a branch, the iliijroidea ima, which passes upward on the surface of the trachea to the isthmus of the thyroid gland, and the occasional presence of this branch should be remembered in the operations of removal of the thyroid gland, and in low tracheotomy. The common carotid arteries (Fig. 443) differ upon the two sides. The right takes its origin from the brachio-ce^jhalic, the left from the arch of the aorta ; the left is, therefore, the longer of the two. In the neck the common carotids are so nearly alike that one description Avill answer for both. It Avill be necessarv, how- ever, to describe that portion of the left carotid which extends from the arch to the sterno-clavicular articulation. The Left Carotid Artery in the Thorax. This portion resembles somewhat the brachio-cephalic artery in length and in its relation to surrounding structure. Relatio>"s. /» front. Sternum. Sterno-hyoid and sterno-tliyroid. Left brachio-cephalic vein. Right side. Left side. Left carotid Left pneumogastric nerve. Brachio-cephalic artery. in Left subclavian. thorax. Artery. Behind. Trachea. CEsophagus. Thoracic duct. THE COMMON CAROTIDS IN THE NECK. Origin, opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation from the brachio-cephalic on the right side, and from the thoracic portion of the common carotid on the left. Course, upward and outward in a line drawn betsveen the sterno-clavicular articulation and a point midway between the angle of the jaAv and the mastoid process. The vessel is covered by the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, the inner border of which is a good guide to its course. Termination : at the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, the common carotid divides into the inter- nal and external carotids. Relatioxs. In front. Integument and superficial fascia. Platysma and deep cervical fascia. Sterno-mastoid muscle. Sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, omo-hyoid muscles. Descendens noni nerve. Sterno-mastoid arterv. Superior and middle thyroid veins. Anterior jugular vein.THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 390 SUPRA SCAPULAR/ Fig. 4-13.—Right subclavian and carotid arteries. The vertebral artery is seen threading the costo-trans- verse processes of the vertebrge. (Testut.) External. Pneumogastric nerve. Internal jugular vein. Common carotid in neck. Internal. Trachea. Thyroid gland. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. Inferior thyroid artery. Larynx and pharynx. Behind. Longus colli. Rectus capitis anterior major. Sympathetic nerve. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. Inferior thyroid artery. Variations.—The right common carotid sometimes springs directly from the arch of the aorta ; sometimes the left common carotid s]irings from a left brachio- cejjhalic artery ; the common carotid is sometimes aljsent, the internal and external carotids sjiringing directly fi'om the arch of the aorta or from a In'achio-cephalic artery. In some cases it divides above or below the usual point, low down in the neck or as high as or higher than the hyoid bone. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 442).—The common carotid can be ligated in any part of its course ; the best point to select is about the level of the cricoid cartilage and above the omo-hyoid muscle, because here the vessel is more accessible than in the lower jiart of its course. To expose the vessel in the ujjper jmrt of its course an incision three inches in length is made along the inner border of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, the centre of the incision being opposite the cricoid cartilage. The incision divides the skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoid, and the anterior layer of the deep fascia ; the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle is drawn to the outer side. The sterno-mastoid artery is usually divided, but this is of noTHE ARTERIES. 391THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 392 importance ; the sheath is exposed and opened, care being taken not to injure tiie descendens hj'poglossi, wliich is usually in front of the sheath. The internal jugular vein is external, sometimes overlaps the vessel ; the pneumogastric nerve is extei'nal and behind the vessel. In passing an aneurism-needle care should be taken to avoid these structures, which is best done by passing the needle from without behind and inward. The vessel lies deeply situated in the lower pai't of its course, and the operation to expose it is inore difficult ; an incision four inches in length is made from the sterno-clavicular articulation ujiward along the inner border of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. This incision divides the skin, super- ficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia. The sterno-cleido-mastoid is turned to the outer side ; this exposes the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles ; these are drawn to the inner side, and the sheath of the vessel is exposed. The inter- nal jugular overlaps and is external to the vessel; the pneumogastric nerve is external and behind. These structures are to be avoided in passing the aneurism- needle. After ligation of a common carotid, collateral circulation is soon estab- lished through the free anastomoses which exist between the branches of the internal and external carotids of the opposite side, and the anastomoses which exist between the branches of the external carotid of the side ojierated upon and the branches of the subclavian. Branches.—The common carotid, as a rule, does not give off any branches in its course ; in rare cases it gives off a su])erior or an inferior thyroid or the ver- tebral artery. The terminal branches are the internal carotid and the external carotid. The External Carotid Artery (Figs. 443, 445). Origin : the external carotid begins as one of the terminal branches of the common carotid opposite the superior border of the thyroid cartilage. Course : it passes upward and outward to a point between the condyle of the jaw and the external auditory meatus. Termination : it terminates in the substance of the parotid gland by dividing into the temporal and the internal maxillary arteries. Relatioks. In front Integument, superficial fascia, platysma and deep fascia. Hypoglossal nerve. Lingual and facial veins. Digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. Parotid gland. Facial nerve. Internally. External Hyoid bone, carotid Pharynx, artery. Inferior laryngeal nerve. Behind. Superior laryngeal nerve. Stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Parotid gland. Variations.—The external carotid may arise above or below its usual point— i. e., opposite the superior border of the thyroid cartilage. Sometimes the artery arises as a branch from the aortic arch.' Cases are found where the external carotid is altogether absent, the common carotid not dividing into the internal and external carotids, but supplying from a common trunk the branches usually393 THE ARTERIES. in the length, supplied bv these vessels. Variations in the branches of the external earotid are very often met with, and will be described in connection with each branch respectively. Surgical Anatomy (Figs. 442-446).—To ligate the external carotid lower half of its course, an incision should be made three inches in beginning an inch below the superior border of the thyroid cartilage, and extend ing upward along the inner border of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. This incision should divide the skin, superficial fascia, platysraa myoid muscle, and deep fascia ; the sterno-cleido-mastoid is drawn to the outer side, and the vessel exposed. The vessel is very superficially situated, and the operation is not difficult. To expose the vessel in the upper half of its course, an incision should be made about three inches in length along the inner border of the sterno-cleido- POSTERI AURICULAR OCCIPITAL Fig. 445.—The external and internal carotid arteries. The hypoglossal nerve, the digastric and stylo- hyoid muscles, and the internal jugular vein are to be noted. (Testut.) mastoid, beginning opposite the hyoid bone and extending upward. This incision should divide the skin and superficial fascia, platysma myoid muscle, and the deep fascia. The posterior belly of the digastric muscle and the stylo-hyoid muscles are found crossing the artery, and above these is seen the lower border of the parotid gland. The digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles are drawn downward, and the border of the gland upward, and the vessel is then exposed to view. Branches.—The external carotid, in addition to its two terminal branches, the internal maxillary and temporal, gives off three anterior branches, the superior thyroid, the lingual, and facial ; two po.sterior branches, the occipital and post- auricular ; and one internal branch, the ascending pharyngeal. Although the external carotid in the majority of dissections gives off the branches as described, variations are very common. Superior Thyroid (Fig. 443).—Orufin : from the anterior surface of the exter-THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTE3L 394 nal carotid below the hyoid l)one. Course and termination : it runs at first ujnvard and inward, and then cnrves downward and inward beneath the onio-hyoid, sterno-liyoid, and sterno-thyroid mnscles to the npj^er portion of the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, to which it is distributed. Relations.-—The superior thyroid at its origin is superficially situated and covered by the skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia ; before it reaches Fig. 446.—Surgical relations of the external carotid, lingual, facial, occipital, subclavian, and transversalis colli arteries. (Kocher.) the thyroid gland it becomes more deeply situated by passing beneath the omo- hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid vessels. Varieties.—The superior thyroid is sometimes given off as a branch of the common carotid, and sometimes is a branch of a trunk from the external carotid, common to it and the lingual or facial. Surgical Anatomy.—The superior thj^roid can be ligated close to its origin from the external carotid through the same incision described in Hgating the external carotid in the lower part of its course. This operation is sometimes done to limit the blood-supply of an enlarged thyroid gland, or in cases of exophthalmic goitre. The artery is ligated in the operation of extirpation of the thyroid.395 THE ARTERIES. Branches.—The superior thyroid sives off branches to the muscles with -\vhii h it is iu contact, ami its terminal branches to the th i/rokt g/and; and in its course gives off usually four branches, the hyoid, the sterno-mastoid, the superior laryn- geal, and the crico-thyroid. The hyoiel runs along the lower border of the hyoid bone. The sterno-mastoid runs outward and downward to the sterno-mastoid mus- cle, which it supplies. This vessel is often divided in the many operations on the side of the neck in which the incision is along the inner border of the sterno-mas- toid, as in removing tubercular glands of the neck, in the operation for ligating the common carotid, etc. The superior laryngeoJ accom})anies the superior laryn- geal nerve in its distribution to the interior of the larynx, passing with the nerve through the thyro-hyoid membrane, and supplying the mucous membrane and muscles of the larynx. The crico-thyroid artery runs inward on the surface of the crico-thyroid membrane. The Lingual Artery (Fig. 447).— Origin : from the external carotid above the superior thyroid and a little below the hyoid bone. Course and termination : the lingual runs along the upper border of the great cornu of the hyoid, then leaves the bone, and passes to the base of the tongue, and runs along the under surface of the tongue, terminating as the ranine artery. Relations.—The artery is at first superficial, then passes beneath the digastric muscle and hyoglossus muscles, and has in front of it the hypoglossal nerve; Fig. i47.—Arteries and veins of the tongue, viewed from the right side. (Testut.) later it is situated in the root of the tongue between the hyoglossus and genio- hyoglossus muscles; it then as the ranine becomes again superficial, being covered only by the mucous membrane of the inferior surface of the tongue. Varieties.—The lingual artery is sometimes a branch from a trunk of the external carotid common to it and the facial, or to it and the superior thyroid, or the three vessels may arise from a common trunk. Surgical Anatomy (Figs. 442, 446).—The lingual artery is often injured in cases of cut throat. It may require ligation also as a preliminary step in removal of the tongue for carcinoma. The vessel can be ligated at its point of origin from the external carotid by the incision described to expose that vessel in the lower part of its course, or it can be ligated where the vessel runs parallel with and just above the hyoid bone and covered by the hyoglossus muscle. In order to expose the ves.sel in this position, a curved incision should be made, beginning a little below the body of the jaw and an inch from the median line, the convexity of the incision downward, reaching the level of the hyoid bone, and the incision terminating below the angle of the jaw. Tiie skin, superficial fascia, platysma,THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 396 and deep fascia are divided, and the submaxillary gland is exposed and drawn upward. Beneath the suliraaxillary gland the digastric tendon is exposed,running upward in each direction to its anterior and posterior belly respectively. Above this tendon is seen the hypoglossal nerve; between the nerve and tendon the hyoglossus muscle is exposed. The fibres of this muscle are separated, and; running parallel with the nerve but beneath it, the lingual artery conies into view. The ranine artery may be ligated by dividing the mucous membrane of the lower surface of the tongue parallel with and external to the raphe. Branches of the lingual are the hyoid, dorsal lingual, sul)]ingual, and ranine. Tlie Jii/oid runs along the up2:»er border of the liyoid bone. The dormJ lingual runs upward to the mucous membrane of the dorsum of the tongfue, which it supplies. The sublingual supplies the sublingual gland. The ranine gives off branches to the muscles of the tongue, and runs in a toi'tuous course to its tip, being in the last part of its course superficial, covered only by the mucous mem- brane. The Facial Artery (Fig. 448).—Origin : from the anterior surface of the exter- nal carotid al)ove the hyoid bone. Course and termination : the vessel passes upward and forward to the inferior border of the lower jaw. In its course it is SUPRAORBITAU OCCIPITAL Fig. 448.—Superficial arteries of the head. (Testut.) covered l)y the submaxillary gland and partly surrounded l)y the gland, so that the vessel occupies a groove on its deep surface. The vessel winds over the body of the lower jaw in front of the masseter muscle, marking the bone in this ])osi- tion by a shallow groove. It then passes upward and forward on the face to the side of the nose, and from the side of the nose upward to the angle of the eye, where it terminates as the angular artery.397 THE ARTERIES. Relations.—At its point of origin the vessel is superficial, being covered by the skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia ; it then passes beneath the stylo- hyoid and digastric muscles and the submaxillary gland, and is deeply situated. At the border of the jaw the vessel again becomes superficial, and its pulsations can be readily felt in front of the masseter. In the face it passes through the muscle-fibres of the facial muscles. Variations.—The variation most commonly met \yith is the occurrence of a trunk from the external carotid, common to the facial and lingual arteries. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 446).—The facial can be ligated at its origin from the external carotid, or at its point of crossing the lower jaw. In operations for the removal of the submaxillary gland the fact should be remembered that the artery occupies a groove on its internal or deep surface, and is in a position to be injured. The course of the branches of the facial should be studied in the many operations on the face. Branches.—The branches of the facial are divided into two sets, a cervical set and a facial set. In the cervical region the facial gives off the ascending palatine artery, the tonsillar, the glandular, the submental, and muscular. The ascending palatine passes to the outer side of the pharynx, whicli it supplies ; it also sends a branch to the soft palate, and anastomoses with the descending palatine artery, a branch of the internal maxillary. The tonsillar is a branch to the tonsil and tongue. The f/landidar are branches given off to the submaxillary gland. The submental is a large branch which runs along the lower border of the jaw to the chin; here the vessel gives off terminal branches, which wind over the jaw, and supply the tissues of the lower lip. Muscular branches are given off to the muscles with which the vessel is in contact. The facial branches are the inferior labial, the coronary, the lateral nasal, the angular, and muscular. The inferior labial runs parallel with the body of the jaw forward to the chin ; it supplies the tissues of the chin and lower lip. The coronary arteries are given off at the angle of the mouth, and run, one in the tissues of the lower lip, the other in the tissues of the upper lip, in close contact with the mucous membrane. The lateral nasal supplies the ala of the nose. The angular is the terminal branch of the facial. It ascends to the inner angle of the eye, and supplies the structures in this position, anastomosing with the infra-orbital, and with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The Occipital Artery (Fig. 448).—Origin : the occipital artery arises from the external and posterior surface of the external carotid, opposite to the facial, at a point a little above the level of the hvoid bone. Course and termination : it winds upward and backward to the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, occupy- ing a groove on its inferior surface. The vessel is here covered by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and crosses the internal carotid, internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve ; it then continues upward and backward beneath the muscles attached to the superior curved line of the occipital bone and the space between this and the inferior curved line, becomes superficial by piercing the trapezius or the fascia between the occipital attachments of the trapezius and sterno-cleido-mastoid, and then runs forward in the scalp tissue to the vertex of the skull, anastomosing with the branches of the temporal and posterior auricular. Varieties.—The occipital is in rare cases a branch of the internal carotid; sometimes it is given off from the inferior thyroid. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 446).—The vessel is deeply situated and seldom wounded ; it may become necessary to ligate it for cirsoid aneurism. It can be ligated at its point of origin from the external carotid, or in the scalp tissue just above the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Branches.—The muscular, sterno-mastoid, auricular, meningeal, and arteria princeps cervicis. Muscular branches are given off to the muscles with which it is in contact; one large muscular branch, the sterno-mastoid, is given off to the sterno-cleido-mastoid, and is distributed to the muscle with the spinal acces- sory nerve. The auricular branch supplies the posterior portion of the external398 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEJL ear. The meningeal branch becomes one of the posterior meningeal arteries, and enters the skull through the jugular foramen. The arteria princeps cervieis passes downward, and, deeply situated, divides into two sets of branches, one anastomosing with the deep cervical branch of the superior intercostal arterv, the other with the superficial cervical branch of the transversalis colli. The Posterior Auriciilar Artery.—Urir/in : from the external carotid, its poste- rior surface above the origin of the occipital. Courae eind termination : it passes upward and l)ackward beneath the parotid gland to the scalp tissue behind the ear and in front of the mastoid process, where it divides into two branches : the mastoid, supplying the scalp tissue over the mastoid process, and anastomosing with the occipital ; and an auricular supplying the back of the ear, and anasto- mosing with branches of the temporal. Variations.—The posterior auricular arterv is sometimes a liranch of the occi- pital. On the other hand, it is sometimes a vessel much larger than the occi- pital, being distributed to the region usually supplied by the occipital and tempiiral arterit-s. Surgical Anatomy.—The position of the posterior auricular should be remem- bered in the frequent operations on the mastoid ; it is, however, a small vessel and usually easily dealt \w\x\\ surgicallv. Branches.—In addition to the two terminal branches, the auricular and mastoid already sufficiently described, the artery gives ofl' a .^ti/lo-masfoid branch, which enters the stylo-mastoid foramen, and supplies branches to the ma^^toid cells, tympanum, and internal ear. The Ascending Pharyngeal Artery.— Or if/in : from the internal and posterior surface of the external carotid, within half an inch of its origin from the com- mon carotid. Course and termination : it runs upward on the side of the pharynx and, covered by the internal carotid artei-y, to the base of the skull. Variations.—The ascending pharyngeal is sometimes a branch of the internal carotid or common carotid. Surgical Anatomy.—In part of its course the artery is situated between the tonsil and the internal carotid, and might be injured in oj^erations about the tonsil. Branches.—The branches of the ascending pharyngeal are the prevertebral, the pharyngeal, and the meningeal. The prevertehrcd branches supply the ante- rior recti and the longus colli muscles, and the nerves and lymphatic nodes of this region. The pharyngeal branches supply the pharynx, tonsil, and soft palate. The meningeal are several small vessels entering the skull through the jugular foramen, the anterior condylar foramen, and the foramen lacerum medium. The Temporal Artery.— Origin : it is one of the terminal branches of the exter- nal carotid, and begins at a point a little below the condyle of the jaw. Course and termination : it passes upward through the substance of the jjarotid gland external to the zygoma, to a point from an inch and a half to two inches above the zvgoma, and here divides into the anterior and posterior temporal arteries. Variations.—The temporal arterv is not frec[uently subject to variations from the usual t^"pe. It may be very small, and its place be taken by a large poste- rior auricular. The transverse facial may be of large size and take the place of a small facial arterv. Surgical Anatomy.—From its superficial position the temporal and its terminal branches are often injured in scalp wounds ; ligation of the main trunk may be recjuired for cirsoid aneurism. The operation can be done by an incision two inches in length, a finger's breadtli in front of the ear, the centre of the inci- sion being an inch above the zygoma. The artery here is accompanied by the auriculo-temporal nerve, which should be avoided. Branches.—The Ijranehes of the temporal are its terminal branches, the ante- rior temporal and the posterior temporal, and the transverse facial, middle tempo- ral, and anterior attricular. The transverse faded (Fig. 448) is given off close to the point of origin of the temporal, passes transversely forward across the faceTHE ARTERIES. 399 beneath the zygoma, on the surface of the masseter, and anastomoses with branches of the facial. The middle temporal branch perforates the temporal fascia, and sup- plies the temporal muscle, anastomosing with the deep temporal branches of the internal maxillary. The anterior auricular branch is distributed to the anterior sur- face of the external ear. The anterior temporal winds forward and upward over the frontal bone, and supplies the scalp structures. In this position the artery is very superficially situated ; its pulsations can be readily felt, and often seen. The position of the artery is such that, in giving an anesthetic the angesthetizer can from this vessel feel the condition of the pulse. The anterior temporal is the artery usually selected to perform the operation of arteriotomy. The posterior temporal passes backward and upward superficially in the scalp to the vertex of the skull, supplying the scalp over the sides of the vertex, and anastomosing with the occipital, the posterior auricular, and the vessel of the opposite side. The Internal Maxillary Artery (Figs. 449, 4o0j is one of the terminal divisions of the external carotid. Origin : from the external carotid a little below the condyle of the jaw. Course and termination: the artery is at first in the substance of the parotid gland, whence it passes inward and forward to the spheno-maxil- FiG. 449.—Internal maxillarj- artery. (Testut.) lary fossa. It is divided into three portions, a raaxillarv, a pterygoid, and a spheno-maxillarv. The maxillary pjortion lies below the inferior border of the external pterygoid muscle; the jjterygoid portion lies on the anterior surface of the i)terygoid muscle ; the spheno-maxillary pjortion rests on the superior maxillary bone, and in the spheno-maxillary fossa.THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 400 Variations.—The internal maxillary in rare cases is given off as a branch from the facial; the number of branches varies considerably, because very often two or more arise by a common trunk from the artery. Surgical Anatomy.—The main trunk of the vessel is deeply situated, but may be injured in penetrating wounds of the face. Ligation of the vessel would be difficult, and that of the external carotid would be preferable. Two of the branches of the internal maxillary are of special surgical interest, the middle meningeal artery and the infraorbital artery. The middle meningeal is often injured in cases of fracture of the skull ; the artery is situated between the bone and dura, and pressure-symptoms from rupture of this vessel are often character- istic, coming on slowly after an injury. The vessel can be exposed by making an Fig. 450.—Diagram of the internal maxillary artery and its branches. opening in the skull, the centre of which should be a point an inch and a half behind the external angular process of the frontal bone. In the Hartley operation for removal of the Gasserian ganglion the position of this vessel should be care- fully studied. The infraorbital artery is sometimes injured in removing the second divi.sion of the iifth pair of nerves back as far as Meckel's ganglion; the blood in such a case might pass into the antrum of Highmore and from this into the nasal cavities. Such hemorrhage could be controlled by plugging the anterior and i^ostcrior nares. Branches.—From the first or mnxillary portion of the vessel are given off the tympanic, the middle meningeal, the small meningeal, and the inferior dental arteries. The tymponic passes through the Glaserian fissure to the tymjianum, which it aids in supplying ; it gives off bi'anches also to the membrana tympani. The middle meningeal enters the skull through the foramen spinosum, occupies a groove in the bon^ of the middle fossa at the base of the skull, winds upward and outward, and divides into an anterior and posterior branch. These branches groove the inner surface of the bone, running between the bone and the dura, and furnish the principal arterial supply of the latter. The i<mall meningeal artery passes through the foramen ovale into the cranial cavity, and supplies the Gasserian ganglion and contiguous dura. The inferior dental is a large branch which passes downward to the inferior dental foramen, which it enters with the inferior dental nerve, running forward in the inferior dental canal to supply the inferior maxilla and teeth. Before entering the inferior dental foramen the artery gives off the mylohyoid branch, which is distributed to the mylohyoid muscle, and occupies the mylohyoid groove on the internal surface of the mandi- ble. The artery gives off" branches to each tooth, and opposite the mental fora- men a mental branch, which passes forward to supply the structures of the chin.THE ARTERIES. 401 The branches of the pterygoid portion of the internal maxillary artery supply the muscles of mastication. They are the temporal, the masseteric, the pterygoid, and the buccal, and carry blood to the temporal, the masseter, the internal and external pterygoids, and the buccinator. The branches from the third or spheno-maxillary portion are the alveolar, the infraorbital, the descending palatine, the Vidian, the pterygo-pulatine, and the spheno-palatine. The alveolar supplies the posterior portion of the alveolar process of the upper jaw, and also the molar and bicuspid teeth. The infraorbital passes with the infraorbital nerve along the infraorbital groove and canal, makes its appearance on the face at the infraorbital foramen, and supplies here the soft tis- sues over the superior maxillary bone, anastomosing with branches from the facial. In the orbit the artery gives olf muscular branches, which supply the inferior oblique and inferior rectus muscles, and in the canal branches to the canine and incisor teeth. The descending palatine passes with the descending branches of Meckel's ganglion down the posterior palatine canal to the mouth cavity, then runs in a groove on the under surface of the hard palate forward to the anterior palatine canal, where it anastomoses with the anterior palatine artery, and sup- plies the gums and mucous membrane of the hard palate. The Vidian passes backward through the Vidian canal to be distributed to the pharynx and Eusta- chian tube. The ptei-ygo-palatine passes backward through the pterygo-pala- tine canal, and is also distributed to the upper part of the pharynx. The spheno-palatine passes through the spheno-palatine foramen into the nasal cavity. It divides into two branches, the naso-palatine, which runs in a groove of the vomer downward and forward to the anterior palatine foramen, where it anasto- moses with the descending palatine artery ; and an external branch, which sup- plies the mucous membrane of the outer wall of the nasal cavity. The Internal Carotid Artery (Fig. 443). Origin : from the common carotid opposite the superior border of the thvroid cartilage. Course and termination : the vessel runs upward in front of the trans- verse processes of the upper three or four cervical vertebrae to the carotid canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bones, runs through the canal to its internal opening, and enters the cranial cavity, and then enters the cavernous sinus, occu- pying a position between the fibrous covering of the sinus and its lining mem- brane. It leaves the sinus at the internal surface of the anterior clinoid process, and passes to tlie fissure of Sylvius, where it breaks up into its terminal branches. The artery is distributed mainly to the brain and eye. The vessel is divided into four portions, a cervical, a petrous, a cavernous, and a cerebral, which should be studied in detail. Tlie cervical portion is that extending from its origin to the lower opening of the carotid canal. Relations. In front. Skin, superficial fascia. Platysnia and deep fascia. Sterno-mastoid, stylo-glossus, and stylo-pharyngeus muscles. External carotid and occipital arteries. Hypoglossal nerve and glossopharyngeal nerve. Parotid gland. Externcdly. Internally. Internal jugular vein. Pharvnx. Pneumogastric nerve. Internal Inferior laryngeal nerve. carotid Ascending pharyngeal ar- in the neck. terv. Tonsil. 26THE BLOOn-VASCULAB SYSTEM. 402 Variations.—The internal carotid sometimes arises directly from the arch of the aorta. It is sometimes absent. It sometimes gives off branches in the neck, which are usually the occipital or ascending pharyngeal. Surgical Anatomy.—The vessel can be exposed for ligation by an incision along the internal border of the sterno-mastoid. The skin and su])erticial fascia should be divided, then the platysma and deep fascia ; the sterno-mastoid should be drawn to the outer side, and the external carotid to the inner side ; care should be taken in passing the needle to avoid the pueumogastric nerve and the internal jugular vein, which accompany the artery. Branches.—As a rule, the internal carotid gives off no branches of importance in the neck. (See A^ariations.) The petrous portion of the vessel is that part contained in the carotid canal. Here the artery makes two sharp turns, which are supposed to diminish the arterial pressure. From this portion of the artery a small branch is given olf to the tympanum. The cavernous portion is that part of the vessel which is in the cavernous sinus. Here the vessel gives off the following branches : the arterise receptaculi, the anterior meningeal, and the ophthalmic. The arterice receptaculi are small ves- sels Avhich supply the pituitary body and the Gasserian ganglion. The anterior meningeal artery is distributed to the dura of the anterior fossa at the base of the skull. The Ophthalmic Artery (Fig. 451) passes with the optic nerve through the optic foramen into the orbit. It passes first forward and outward, then crosses the optic nerve and passes forward and inward, runs along the inner wall of the orbit, beneath the inner portion of the orbital margin, leaves the orbit, and termi- nates by dividing into the frontal and nasal arteries. In its course the ophthal- mic artery gives off branches to the walls and contents of the orbit. These branches are the central artery of the retina, the ciliary arteries, the lachrymal, the muscular, the supraorbital, the ethmoidal, the palpebral, and the terminal branches, the nasal and frontal arteries. The central artery of the retina is given oft' from the o])hthalmic near the optic foramen. It accompanies the optic nerve, and is distributed to the retina. The vessel can be well seen in ophthalmoscopic examinations of the retina. The ciliary arteries are divided into three sets—the long, short, and anterior ciliary arteries. The short ciliary arteries are eight or ten in number, which pierce the sclerotic coat near the optic nerve, and run forward to su])plv the choroid. The long ciliary arteries, two in number, one on each side, ]>icrce the sclera some distance from the optic nerve, and run forward to suj)ply the ciliarv body and iris. The anterior ciliary arteries are branches of the muscular branches of the ophthalmic. They pierce the sclera near the coiniea and supply the ciliary body and the iris. The anterior and long ciliary arteries form an anastomosis around the outer margin of the iris, and also around the free margin of the iris. The lachrymal arteiy arises from the oi)hthalmic external to the optic nerve, passes forward and outward to the lachrymal gland, which it supplies, and, leaving the gland, sends small branches to the eyelids, known as external ])alpel)ral branches. MuscnJar branches ai'e given oflF from various por- tions of the ophthalmic in its course to supply the muscles of the globe. The supraorbital artery is a vessel of some size, which runs along the I'oof of the orbit to the supraorbital notch. Leaving the orbit at this point, it courses upward in the muscles and integument of the forehead. The ethmoidal arteries, two in number, are given off* from the ophthalmic opposite the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina. Entering the cranial cavity through these foramina they give off" ante- rior meningeal vessels, sup])lying the dura in the anterior fossa at the base of the skull. The anterior ethmoidal is the larger, and, after giving off" a meningeal branch, leaves the cranial cavity with the nasal nerve, passes through an opening in the cribriform plate to the nasal cavity, runs along the inner surface of the nasal bone, and supplies the tip of the nose. The palpebral arteries, two in number, the superior and inferior, supply the upper and lower lids. The nasalTHE ARTERIES. 403 artery leaves the orbit above the inner canthu.s, and supplies tlie bridge of the nose, anastomosing with the angular branch of the facial. The frontal leaves the orbit at the upper and inner angle, winds up over the forehead near the median line, supplying the soft tissues in this position. Variations.—The ophthalmic is sometimes situated beneath the (jptic nerve, and on the inner side of the orbit throughout its entire course. The ophthalmic is sometimes a branch of the middle meningeal, or sometimes gives origin to the middle meningeal. Variations in the number and position of the branches as described frequently occur. Surgical Anatomy.—In enucleation of the eye the larger branches of the oph- thalmic are, as a rule, not divided, and the resulting hemorrhage is slight and readily controlled. Aneurism of the ophthalmic occurs, producing exophthalmos and inter- FiG. 451.—Arteries of the orbit. (Testut.) ference with the function of the eye. To control such a condition ligation of the common carotid or internal carotid might be necessary. The cerebral portion of the internal carotid has for its branches the posterior communicating, the anterior clioroid, the anterior cerebral, and the middle cerebral arteries. The posterior communicating passes backward to join the posterior cerebral artery, a branch from the basilar, and forms the lateral portion of the circle of Willis. The anterior choroid passes outward and backward to reach the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, where it supplies the choroid plexus. The anterior cerebral runs forward and inward to reach the great longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres. In this fissure the artery lies close to its oppo- site mate, and connecting them is a short trunk, the anterior communicating. The \essel winds over the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum to reach its supe- rior surface. It gives off branches to the anterior perforated space, to the under surface of the frontal lobe, and the mesial surface of the hemisphere, and anasto- moses with the posterior cerebral artery. The middle cerebral artery passes forwai'd and outward to the fissure of Sylvius, and then runs along the fissure of Sylvius to the insula and the external surface of the hemisphere. In its course it gives branches, wdiich enter the anterior perforated space, and supply the404 THE BLOOD-VASCULAIi SYSTEM. ganglia and other structures in the floor of the lateral ventricle. One of these vessels is of special interest, the Icnticulo-striate artery, called also Charcot's artery of cerebral hemorrhage, because it is a very common site of arterial rup- ture in cases of apoplexy. This vessel is situated between the external capsule and the corpus striatum. The cortical brain substance of the motor area is also supplied by the middle meningeal (Sylvian) artery, and here arterial lesions are common and often produce localizing symptoms. After discussing the vertebral artery, which with the internal carotid supplies the encephalon, the arterial sup- ply of the brain will be given more in detail. ARTERIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. The subclavian arferi/ (Fig. 452) takes its origin on the left side from the arch of the aorta, on the right side from the brachio-cephalic artery. Each vessel passes upward and outward into the neck, and then arches downward and out- ward to terniinate at the lower border of the first rib in the axillary. Each ves- VERTEBRAL Fig. 452.—Subclavian and axillary arteries. (Testut.) sel is divided into three portions, according to its situation with reference to the scalenus anterior mu.scle. The first portions of the subclavian arteries differ, and must be described separately. A single description will answer for the second and third jiortions of both arteries. The first portion of the left subclavian arises from the arch of the aorta, and extends to the inner border of the scalenus anterior muscle. The vessel is deeply situated and in the lower part of its course somewhat resembles the brachio- cephalic artery.THE ARTERIES. 405 Eelatioxs. In front. Pleura and lung. Pneumogastric and phrenic nerves. Left carotid arterv. Left internal jugular and brachio-cephalic veins. Sterno-hyoid, sterno-tliyroid, and sterno-mastoid muscles. Inner side. Outer side. Trachea. First portion Pleura. CEsophagus. of left Thoracic duct. subclavian. Behind. CEsophagus. Thoracic duct. The first portion of the right subclavian takes its origin from the brachio- cephalic arterv, and extends upward and outward to the inner border of the scalenus anterior. Relations. In front. Skin, superficial fascia. Platysma, deep faseia. Sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyi'oid muscles. Intei'nal jugular vein. Pneumogastric and phrenic nerves. Beneath. First portion Pleura. of right subclavian. Behind. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. The second portion of the subclavian is behind the scalenus anterior muscle. Relatioxs. In front. Skin, superficial fascia. Platysma, deep fascia. Sterno-mastoid and scalenus anterior muscles. Phrenic nerve. Subclavian vein. Above. Be/oiv. Second portion Brachial plexus. of subclavian Pleura. artery. Behind. Scalenus medius muscle. Pleura. The third portion of the subclavian extends from the outer border of the scale- nus anterior to the lower border of the first rib.406 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. Relations. In J'ronf. Skin, superficial fascia. Platysma, deep fascia. Suprascapulai* artery. External jugular vein. Clavicle. Below. Third portion First rib. of subclavian. Behind. Scalenus medius. Variations.—The sul)clavian is sometimes on both sides a direct trunk from the aortic arch, or on l)oth sides a branch from a right and left brachio-cephalic artery. The vessel is usually at its high point in the neck a half inch above the clavicle, but sometimes it rises considerably higher ; sometimes it is beneath the clavicle entirely. The branches of the subclavian often present variations which are of importance and which will be discussed in studying the individual branches. Surgical Anatomy (Figs. 442, 446).—The surgical anatomy of the first and second portions of the subclavian is not of great importance, because, owing to the great depth of the vessel and its relations to important structures, it is seldom interfered with surgically. The vessel, however, can be and has been ligated in the first two portions of its course. The surgical anatomy of the third portion is of great importance, and should be carefully studied. The blood supply of the upper extremity can be controlled by compressing the subclavian digitally against the iipjier surface of the first rib. This method is now, however, seldom employed. Ligation of the third portion of the subclavian may be required for injuries of the arteries of the uj^per extremity below this point, or for aneurism. It is also a preliminary step in the amputation of the entire upper extremity. The ojieration is made in the following way : An incision four inches in length is made over the clavicle beginning a little external to the stcrno-clavicular articu- lation. This incision divides the skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia. In making this sujierficial incision the external jugular is exposed, and may be drawn to the inner side or divided between two ligatures. The sub- clavian triangle is now outlined, bounded below by the clavicle, above by the pos- terior belly of the omo-hyoid, and internally by the sterno-clcido-mastoid. The suprascajnilar artery crosses this triangle above and parallel with the clavicle. Carefully dividing the areolar tissue at the floor of this triangle, a second triangle is exposed ; this second triangle is bounded above by the brachial plexus, below by the first rib, and internally by the scalenus anterior muscle. The third portion of the subclavian artery is in this small triangle. In ligating the vessel care shonld be taken to avoid the subclavian vein, which is below, the brachial plexus, which is above, and the phrenic nerve, which lies on the anterior snrface of the scalenus anterior. Collateral circulation is usually readily established between the branches of the first portion of the subclavian, and the branches from the axil- lary, external carotid, intercostals, and deep epigastric. Branches.—The branches of the subclavian are, as a rule, four in number, and given olf from the first portion of the vessel, although sometimes the su]ierior intercostal is given off from the second portion, and the posterior scajiula is often a branch from the third j^ortion. They are the vertebral, the internal mammary, the thyroid axis, and the superior intercostal. The Vertebral (Fig. 443) is given off from the posterior surface of the sub- Ahove. Brachial plexus. Omo-hyoid muscle.407 THE ARTERIES. clavian ; it passes upward to reach the vertebral opening in the costo-transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and continues upward through the vertebral foramina of the cervical vertebra above; i-eaching the atlas it winds over the upper surface of the posterior arch in a groove or foramen behind the superior articular process, and passes into the cranial cavity through the foramen magnum ; the two vertebral arteries within the skull unite to form the basilar, which then breaks up into branches, which assist the internal carotid in supplying the ence- phalon. Variations.—The vertebral is sometimes a branch of the aortic arch ; sometimes a branch of the common carotid. Although as a rule it enters the vertebral foramen of the sixth cervical, it in some cases enters none below that of the fifth, or even the third. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 453).—The ligation of the vertebral is a deep opera- tion, but can be readily done if the anatomical position of the vessel and the landmarks leading to it are understood. An incision is made along the inner border of the sterno-mastoid, beginning just above the sterno-clavicular articula- tion and extending upward for four or five inches. The skin, superficial fascia, platysma and deep fascia are divided; the carotid is drawn to the outer side, the Fig. 453.—Surgical relations of the facial, verteljral, and inferior thyroid arteries. (Kocher.) transverse process of the sixth cervical is sought, and below this point and between the scalenus anterior and the longus colli muscles the vertebral artery is found. The vessel may be approached by an incision of sufficient length made along the outer border of the sterno-cleido-mastoid, instead of along its inner border. In this case the muscle and deep vessels are drawn to the inner side. Branches.—The branches of the vertebral are divided into two sets ; those in the neck, and those in the cranium. The branches in the neck are the lateral spi- nal and the muscular. The spinal branches enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina, and supply the membranes of the cord and the vertebrte. Muscular branches are distributed to the deep muscles of the neck. The branches in the cranium are the posterior meningeal, the po.sterior inferior cerebellar, and the spinal. The posterior meningeal branches are small vessels supplying the dura of the posterior fossa. The spinal arteries are divided into two sets, the anterior and posterior spinal. The anterior spinal branch unites with its fellow of the opposite side and forms the single einterior spinal artery. The posterior408 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. spinal descends along the cord in front of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and communicates with the lateral spinal. The posterior inferior cerebellar artery supplies the posterior and inferior surfaces of the cerebellum, and gives off small branches to the medulla and the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. The Basilar Artery (Figs. 454, 455) is foi-nied by the union of the vertebral arteries ; it runs forward and upward in the groove on the under surflice of the pons, and divides into the posterior cerebral arteries. In its course it gives off as branches the transverse, the anterior inferior cerebellar and superior cerebellar arteries. The transverse arteries supply the pons, and one branch enters the internal auditory meatus with the facial and auditory nerve. The anterior infe- rior cerebellar arteries supply the anterior portion of the inferior surface of the cerebellum. The superior cerebellar arteries wind backward and upward to the upper surface of the cerebellum, which thev supply. Fig. 454.—Arteries at the base of the brain, seen in their relations to the sl^ull. (Testut.) The terminal branches of the basilar, the j)oste)-ior cerebral arteries, are ves- sels of large size, which anastomose with the posterior communicating to com- plete the circle of Willis behind. They pass to the under surface of the occipital lobe, which they supi:)ly ; giving off also a choroid branch. With this knowledge of the distribution of the internal carotid and vertebral arteries, we can study the free anastomosis of the arteries at the base of the brain, known as tlie circle of Willis. The Circle of Willis is formed in front by the anterior cerebral arteries and the anterior communicating which unites them ; behind by the divi.sion of the basilar into the posterior cerebral; and laterally by the internal carotid and posterior communicating. From the cerebral arteries close to, within an inch of, the circle of Willis deep ganglionic branches are given off which penetrate the brain sub- stance, and are distributed to the great ganglia at the base of the brain and the contiguous brain structures. Beyond this the vessels supply the cortical portions409 THE ARTERIES. of the encephalou. A point of practical importance in this connection is the fact that the arteries which supply the brain ai'e terminal arteries, and that there is no anastomosis between the vessels supplying the ganglia and central structures of the brain and the vessels sujjplying the cortex. As a result, whenever an injury or lesion to an artery of the brain occurs, the portion of the l)rain tissue supplied by the vessel beyond the point of the lesion has its arterial supply permanently cut off, and ne- crosis and softening- follow. AnUrinr Communicating Anterior Cerebral Middle Cerebral Internal Carotid Posterior Communicating Posterior Cerebral Superior Cerebellar Anterior Inferior Cerebellar Basilar Posterior Inferior Cerebellar Vertebral Posterior Spinal Anterior Spinal Fig. 455.—Key to Fig. 454. The Internal Mammary Artery (Fig. 4oG). This vessel is given off from the ante- rior surface of the first portion of the sub- clavian. It passes downward to the inner surface of the cartilage of the first rib, runs downward between the costal cartilages and the pleura, about half an inch external to the border of the sternum, to the sixth intercostal space, and there divides into the superior epigastric and musculo-phrenic arteries. In its course it gives off the su- perior phrenic, the mediastinal, the ante- rior intercostal, and the anterior perforat- ing. The superior phrenic accompanies the phrenic nerve in its distribution. The mediastinal branches are distributed to the structures of the anterior mediastinum. The anterior intercostals are given off at each of the upper five or six intercostal spaces and supply the anterior portion of those spaces,, anastomosing with the aortic intercostal arteries. The perforating l)ranches pierce the intercostal muscle in each space, and pass forward and outward to supply the pectoral muscle, the mam- mary gland, and the integument over the pectoral region. The terminal branches are the musculo-phrenic and superior epigastric. The musculo-phrenic winds outward and downward along the inner Fig. 456.—Internal mammary and deep epigas- tric arteries. (Tcstut.)410 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTE3L surface of the costal arch, and opposite each one of the lower intercostal spaces. It gives off an intercostal branch, and sends also a number of muscular Ijranches to the diaphragm. The superior epif/mtric, the other terminal branch, descends into the alxlominal wall, at first occupying a position between the rectus muscle and its posterior sheath, then passing into the substance of the rectus, and anasto- moses witli the deep epigastric artery. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 442).—The surgical anatomy of the internal mam- mary includes tlie discussion of aneurism and injuries. The vessel can be ligated in any of the six upper intercostal spaces one-half inch external to the sternum. The best plan of operation is a transverse incision over a costal cartilage, exposure of the cartilage for an inch, removal of a section of the cartilage, and ligation of the vessel beneath. The Thyroid Axis. The tliyro'ul axis (Fig. 443, THY.) is a large trunk which arises from the anterior and superior surface of the first part of the subclavian, and divides into three branches, the inferior thyroid, the transversalis colli, and suprascapular. The Inferior Thyroid Artery ])asses upward and inward in I'ront of the ver- tebral and ])ehind the common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and pneu- mogastric nerve to the inferior portion of the lateral lobe of the thyroid body, to which it is distributed. The recurrent laryngeal nerve passes sometimes in front and sometimes behind the artery ; it is in intimate relation to the vessel, and in ligating the artery this relationship must be borne in mind. Varieties.—The inferior thyroid is sometimes a branch of the vertebral or the common carotid, or instead of arising from the thyroid axis may be a branch from the sul)clavian. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 453).—The inferior thyroid is sometimes ligated in lesions of the thyroid gland for the purpose of diminishing the blood supply. It must be ligated during the operation of extirpation of a thyroid lobe. Ligation of the inferior thyroid can be made by exjjosing the vessel by an incision along the inner border of the sterno-mastoid, beginning at the sterno-clavicular articu- lation and passing upward for four inches. After dividing the superficial struct- ures the carotid artery is drawn outward and the vessel is found external to the trachea ; the recurrent laryngeal nerve is in close contact Avith the vessel, and in the groove between the cesoi)hagus and trachea, usually in front of the vessel, and must be carefully avoided. Branches of the inferior thyroid are the muscular, ascending cervical, inferior larvngeal, tracheal and oesophageal. Iluscular branches are given off to the mus- cles with which it is in contact. The ascendivg cervical branch passes upward and outward over the scalenus anterior muscle, and anastomoses with branches from the occi])ital and ascending pharyngeal. The inferior laryngeal accom- panies the recurrent laryngeal nerve in its distribution to the larynx. The tracheal branches are distributed to the trachea, and tlie oesrjpjhageal to the ceso])hagus. The Suprascapular Artery passes outward and backward to the upper border of the scapula. Tlie vessel at first runs almost parallel with the clavicle. Reach- ing the u]>per liorder of the scapula, it winds into the supraspinous fossa, supply- ing the supraspinatus muscle, then passes into the infraspinous fossa supplying the infras]iinatus muscle ; its branches anastomose with Ijranches from the posterior scapular and the dorsal scapidar arteries. Varieties.—This vessel is sometimes a separate branch from the subclavian, sometimes a brancli from the axillary. Surgical Anatomy.—The vessel can be ligated by the same incision already described for the ligation of the third portion of the subclavian. Branches, in addition to the terminal branches already given, are, muscular to contiguous muscles, Huprastcrnal to the integument over the sterno-clavicularTHE ARTERIES. 411 articulation, nutrient to the clavicle, supra-acromial to the tissues over the acro- mion, and .suhscajjular to the subscapularis muscle. The Transversalis Colli Artery passes outward and backward in front of the scaleni muscles and the braciiiul plexus to the trapezius muscle ; here it divides into two branches, the superficial cervical and the posterior scapular. The siiperjicial cervical passes behind the trapezius muscle upward, and supplies the trapezius, levator scapulae, and splenius. The posterior scapular passes down- ward along the vertebral border of scapula to its inferior angle. In its course it is covered by the rhomboid muscles, and anastomoses with the scapular arteries— suprascapular, dorsal scapular, and subscapular. Varieties.—The posterior scapular is very often a separate branch of the third portion of the subclavian. Surgical Anatomy.—The presence of the posterior scapular as a branch from the third portion of the subclavian is to be borne in mind in ligating that vessel; and in amputation of the entire upper extremity, the operator should know that, after ligation of the subclavian, all bleeding of consequence is controlled, except that from the posterior scapular, when it is a branch from the third portion of the subclavian, which may give rise to considerable hemorrhage, when the scapula is removed, and requires ligation. The Superior Intercostal Artery. This vessel arises from the posterior surface of the subclavian, either from its first or second portion. The artery passes backward and is divided into two branches. One, the deep cervical, passes upward, deeply situated behind the transverse processes, and anastomoses with the princeps cervicis branch of the occipital. The other branch passes downward in front of the neck of the first rib to the first intercostal s])ace, which it supplies, and gives off also a branch to the second intercostal space. Variations.—Tlie superior intercostal is sometimes a branch of the thyroid axis. The deep cervical is sometimes a branch from the subclavian, sometimes from the posterior scapular. THE TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. The quadrilateral surface of the neck, Avhich is bounded below by the clavicle, above by the inferior border of the lower jaw and a line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the mastoid process, behind by the anterior border of the trapezius muscle, and in front by the median line of the neck, is divided by the sterno- cleido-mastoid muscle into two triangles, called the anterior and posterior triangles of the neck. These two triangles are subdivided, the posterior into two, the occipital, and the subclavian, by the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid ; the ante- rior into three by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and the two bellies of the digastric. These ai'e called the inferior carotid, the superior carotid, and the sub- maxillary triangles. These triangles are important anatomical regions and must be carefully studied. The student is advised to draw a sketch of these triangles, and, at this stage of his study, to add the arteries which are found in them ; later, as the subjects of the veins, lymphatics, and nerves have been mastered, these structures should be added to the sketch, and the topographical anatomy completed. The occipital triangle has but one vessel of large size, the transversalis colli. The subclavian triangle contains the subclavian and the origin of its branches. The inferior carotid triangle contains the common carotid, the inferior thyroid, and the vertebral. The superior carotid triangle contains the common carotid, the internal and external carotids, and the first portions of all the branches of the external carotid, except the terminal branches, the temporal and internal maxillary, and usually the posterior auricular. The submaxillar if triangle contains the upper portion of the external carotid witli its branches—the temporal, internal412 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. maxillary, and posterior auricailar—the internal carotid deeply situated, and the facial and lingual. THE AXILLARY ARTERY (Fig. 457). The axillary artery begins where the subclavian ends, at the lower border of the first rib, passes downward and outward through the axillary space to its lower margin—/. e., the outer edge of the latissinuis, and there terminates by becoming the brachial. The artery is crossed by the pectoralis minor muscle, which divides it into three portions. The first portion is between the lower border of the first rib and the inner margin of the pectoralis minor ; the second portion is behind the pectoralis minor ; and the third portion is between the outer border of the pectoralis minor and the lower border of the axillaiy space. The relations of these three portions ditiTer, and it is well to study them separately. Relations of the First Poetiox of the Axillary Artery. In front. Skin, superficial and deep fasciae. Pectoralis major. Costo-coracoid membrane. Outer side. Inner side. rirst portion Brachial plexus of nerves. of Axillary vein. axillary artery. Behind. First intei'costal space. Serratus magnus muscle. Relations of the Second Portion of the Axillary Artery. In front. Skin, superficial and deep fasciae. Pectoralis major. Pectoralis minor. Outer side. Inner side. Outer cord of brachial Second portion Axillary vein. plexus. of Inner cord of brachial axillary artery. plexus. Belli nd. Subsca]iularis muscle. Posterior cord of brachial plexus. Relations of the Third Portion of the Axillary Artery. In front. Skin, superficial and deep fasciae. Pectoralis major. Inner head of median nerve. Outer side. Inner side. Coraco-brachialis muscle. Third portion Ulnar nerve. Median and musculo-cuta- of Internal cutaneous nerve, neous nerves. axillary artery. Axillary vein. Behind. Subscapularis muscle. Latissimus and teres major muscles. Musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves.413 THE ARTERIES. Variations.—The axillary sometimes gives off one of the artei'ies of the fore- arm. This is usually the radial, but is sometimes the ulnar, and sometimes the interosseous. Very often the usual number of branches from the axillary is diminished by the origin of two or more from a common trunk. The third por- tion of the axillary is sometimes crossed by a muscular slip extending from the pectoralis major to the latissimus dorsi. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 458).—The artery may be ligated in any portion of its course. The vessel is easily found and ligated in the third portion, and may be exposed and ligated by a deep dissection in the first portion. The second portion is so covered by the pectoralis minor that a division of this muscle would be necessary to expose the artery; and, therefore, this portion would not be selected VERTEBRAL Fig. 457.—Axillary and subclavian arteries. iTestut.) for ligation. Ligation of the first portion of the axillary can be done in the fol- lowing way : An incision four inches in length is made below the middle of the clavicle and parallel with the clavicular fibres of the pectoralis major muscle. This incision should divide the skin, superficial and deep fascise, and expose the pectoralis major muscle. The muscle-fibres should not be cut across, but sepa- rated by blunt dissection, held apart by retractors, and the pectoralis minor mus- cle sought for and exposed. Between the clavicle and the inner border of the pectoralis minor stretches a strong fibrous layer, the costo-coracoid membrane, which being divided, the axillary artery will be exposed, with the axillary vein situated internally and beneath, and the brachial plexus above and externally. These structures are to be avoided in applying a ligature. The ligation of the third portion of the artery requires but a superficiaf dissection. If the axillary space is divided from before backward into thirds, the vessel will be found at the junction of the anterior with the middle third. An incision two and a half inches long is made at this point, and parallel to the course of the vessel. The skin and superficial and deep fasciae being cut through, the vessel will be exposed,THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. 414 with the axillary vein internally and beneath, and the ulnar nerve to the inner side. The median nerve is externally and above, its inner head crossing in front of the ai'tery. These structures are to be avoided in passing the aneurism-needle. The Branches of the axillary artery are usually seven in number, two, the \ Fig. 458.—Sursical relations of the axillary, subscapular, brachial, superior profunda, and anastomotica magna arteries. The right arm is represented as raised almost to the perpendicular. (Kocher.) superior thoracic and acromio-thoracic, from the first portion ; two, the long thoracic and alar thoracic from the second ; and three, the subscapular and the anterior and posterior circumflex, from the third portion. The superior thoracic arises from the first portion of the axillary, and passes downward and forward to415 THE ARTERIES. supply the ])ectoralis major and minor muscles. The acromio-thoraeic artery arises from the first portion of the axillary ; it breaks up into three sets of branches : one passes outward to the acromion, the second passes down the arm with the cephalic vein, and the third supplies the pectoi'al and the serratus magnus muscles. The long thoracic artery arises from the second portion of the axillary, passes downward along the outer border of the pectoralis minor, and sends branches to the serratus magnus, the pectorales major and minor, and the mam- mary gland. The alar thoracic, arising from the second portion, consists either of a single branch or a number of small branches, distributed to the lymphatic glands, the fat and the areolar tissue of the axilla. The subscapular artery is a large branch which arises from the third portion of the axillary. It passes down- ward on the subscapularis muscle, and, at about the centre of the axillary border of the scapula, it gives off a large branch, the dorsalis scapuke artery, Avhich winds into the infraspinatus muscle, and anastomoses with the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries. The rest of the artery passes downward on the chest wall, and is distributed to the muscles in this region—the subscapularis, the sei'ratus magnus, the latissimus, and the teres major. The posterior circumflex is larger than the anterior. It arises from the third portion of the axillary, and winds backward between the teres muscles, and between the humerus and long head of the triceps. It accompanies the circumflex nerve, and supplies the deltoid and other structures about the shoulder-joint. The anterior circumflex arises from the third portion of the axillary artery. It passes forward in front of the humerus, is covered by the coraco-brachialis and the tendon of the biceps, sends branches to the shoulder-joint, and anastomoses with the posterior circumflex artery. THE AXILLARY SPACE. At this stage the student is advised to draw the axillary space, its boundaries, and the arteries contained in it. Later, as the subjects of the veins, lymphatics, and nerves are mastered, these should be added to the sketch. The Axillary Space is one of much practical importance, for it is often invaded by the surgeon in operative work, such as clearing the axilla in con- nection with the removal of carcinoma of the mammary gland. This operation practically amounts to a dissecting of the axilla and demands a thorough knowl- edge of the anatomy of the part. The axilla or arm-pit is the wedge-shaped space between the inner surface of the arm and the side of the chest. It presents for examination as boundaries anterior, posterior, internal, and external walls, a base and an apex. The anterior wall is formed by the pectoral muscles ; the posterior wall by the latissimus, the teres major, and the subscapularis muscles ; the inner zvall by the ujiper four ribs and intercostal spaces, covered by the serratus magnus muscle ; and the outer tvall by the humerus, covered by the coraco-brachialis muscle and the biceps tendons. The apex corresponds to the small area above the first rib from which the brachial plexus, and the axillary artery and vein emerge. The base is formed by the integument and fascia which stretch across the arm-])it from the pectoralis major to the latissimus dorsi. The arterial contents are the axillary artery and its branches. In addition the space contains the accompanying veins, the brachial plexus of nerves, the axillary lymphatic nodes and vessels, and con- siderable fat and areolar tissue. The position of these structures in the space and their relations to each other should be carefully studied. THE BRACHIAL ARTERY (Fig. 459). The brachial artery, the continuation of the axillary, begins at the outer border of the axillary space. It passes down the inner aspect of the arm, covered by the deep fascia, and lying on the inner border of the coraco-brachialis and biceps mus- cles ; it terminates in the forearm about half an inch below the bend of the elbow416 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. by dividing into the ulnar and radial. The artery is usually accompanied by vense comites. Relations of the Brachial. //( front. Skin, superficial fascia. Deep fascia. Median nerve. Basilic vein. Outer side. Coraco-brach ialis and biceps mus- cles. Brachial artery. Inner side. Ulnar and in- ternal cuta- neous nerves. Behind. Musculo-spiral nerve. Superior pi'ofunda artery. Triceps and brachialis muscles. Variations.—High division of the brachial is frequently seen, and has been noted at all parts of its course. The vessel given off high up is usually the radial, sometimes the ulnar, rarely the interosseous. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 458).—The brachial artery may be exposed for ligation in anv part of its course. The vessel is superficiallv sit- uated and readily exposed, the landmarks being the inner border of the coraco-brachialis muscle in the upper part of the arm, and the inner border of the biceps in the middle and lower portions of its course. An incision is made two inches in length jjarallcl with the inner border of those muscles, the skin, super- ficial fiiscia and deep fascia are divided, and the artery is exposed. In the superficial fascia the basilic vein often lies in the course of the artery ; the median nerve is usually superficial, external above and internal below ; the ulnar nerve is internal, and the vessel is accompanied by veufe comites. The Branches of the brachial are the superior profunda, muscular, nutrient, inferior profunda, and anastomotica magna. The superior profunda accompanies the musculo-spiral nerve in the musculo-spiral groove between the internal and external heads of the triceps. Above the elbow it winds to the anterior surface of the forearm, and anastomoses with the recurrent branches of the arteries of the forearm. Muscular branches are given off to the muscles of the arm. The nutrient branch is given off to the humerus, entering the nutrient foramen in the shaft of the bone. The inferior profunda artery accomjianies the ulnar nerve to the pos- terior surface of the elbow, and anastomoses with the recurrent branches of the arteries of the forearm. The anastomotica magna, arises from the brachial t-wo inches above the elbow, winds backward to the posterior surface of the internal condyle, and anastomoses with the recurrent branches of the arteries of the forearm. FiG- 459.—Brachial artery. (Testut.)THE ARTERIES. 417 The Ulnar Artery (Figs. 462-4650 The ulnar arterv arises as one of the terminal branches of the brachial half an inch below the bend of the elbow, and passes inward and downward alono^ the anterior and inner portion of the forearm, between the two layers of muscles on Fig. 460.—Horizontal section at middle of right ami—upper surface of lower segment. B. V., basilic vein; CEPH. v., cephalic vein; I. C. X., internal cutaneous nerve; I. P. inferior profunda artery; JI. C. N., mus- culo-cutaneous nerve; M. N., median nerve ; M. S. N., musculo-spiral nerve; S. P. A., superior profunda artery; U. N., ulnar nerve. (After Braune.) its anterior surface. It becomes superficial in the lower part of the forearm, and occupies a jiosition between the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor sub- Hmis. Reaching the wrist it passes over the anterior annular ligament into the palm of the hand, and forms the superficial palmar arch. Relations of the Ulxar Artery. In front. Skin, superficial and deep fasciae. Superficial layer of anterior muscles of foreai'm. Internally. Externally. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Ulnar Flexor sublimis digito- Ulnar nerve. artery. rum. Behind. Brachialis. Flexor profundus digitorum. 27418 THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. Variations.—The ulnar often arises from the brachial in the arm, and some- times even from the axillary. The vessel is occasionally superficially situated, being in front of the superficial flexor muscles instead of covered by them. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 46.">).—The ulnar artery can be exposed for ligation in any part of its course, the muscle and tcnd(jn of the flexor carpi ulnaris being the guide fin- finding the vessel. In the U2>})er part of its course the artery is covered by the superficial flexor muscles, and, in order to reach it after dividing the skin and superficial fascia, the flex(jr carpi ulnaris is separated from the rest of the group, and the artery is exposed, Avitli its veufe comites, the ulnar nerve being to the outer side. In the lower half of its course the artery is superficial, and can be exposed by an incision made along the outer border of the tendon of SUPERIOR PROFUN DA INFERIOR PROFU N DA MUSCULO- SPIRAL NERVE POSTERIOR ULNAR RECURRENT f POSTERIOR J INTEROSSEOUS t RECURRENT Fig. 461.—Anastomoses at the back of the elbow. (Testut.) ANASTOMOTICA — MAGNA Fig. 4b2.—Arteries lu the region of the bend of the elbow. (Testut.) the flexor cai'pi ulnaris, \vhich should divide the skin, superficial fiiscia, and deep fascia. The artery is here accompanied by the ulnar nerve which is internal and also by vente comites. The Branches of the ulnar are divided into three groups, those in the foreai'm, those in the wrist, and those in the hand. In the forearm the branches are the recurrent arteries, anterior and posterior, the interosseous, and the muscular. The recurrent branches wind upward and inward, the anterior in front and the posterior behind the inner condyle, to anastomose Avith the inferior ])rofunda and anastomotica magna branches of the brachial. The interosseous is a short trunk which divides into two branches. The anterior intcrrjsseous passes downward on the anterior surfiice of the inter- osseous membrane to the carpus, and supplies the deep layer of muscles. The posterior interosseous arises above the upper margin of the interosseous membrane, to the posterior surface of which it runs ; here it gives oft' an ascending, or recur- rent, branch, which passes up to the posterior surface of the internal condyle to419 THE ARTERIES.THB BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. 420 anastomose with the profunda aneries and the ana?tomotica magna of the brachial: the main portion of the posterior interosseous passes downward to the wrist l>etween the superficial and deep layers of muscles of the forearm. In the wrist the ulnar gives ofi" anterior and po<ferior carpal branches : these branches anastomose with similar branches of the radial and supplv the carpus; tlie posterior carpal of the ulnar with the posterior carpal branch of the radial form on the back of the carpus the posterior carpal arch, which sends branches to the interosseous spaces and the fingers. In the hand the ulnar divides into the deep palniar and tlie superficial palmar, which latter forms with the superficialis vol* of the radial, the superficial palmar arch (Fig. 4641. deep pa/jjior branch passes between the flexor brevis and the abductor minimi digiti to reach the radial, which it assists in forming the deep Fi'5. ir-i.—Sup-erScial palmar arcli and its branehe;. Tesmt.) palmar arch. The siqjerticial ptoJmar arch is situated between the palmar fascia and the flexor tendons at a point in the hand a little above the web of the thumb. The branches of the arch are the jour digital arteries, of which the inner one sup- plies the iimer side of the little finger, the second the contiguous sides of the little and ring fingers, the third the contiguous sides of the ring and middle fingers, andTHE ARTERIES. 421 the fourth the contiguous sides of the middle and index fingers ; opposite the wel» of the fingers the arteries are joined by the interosseous branches from the deep jjalmar arch. The Radial Artery (Figs. 462, 465). The radial arterv arises from the brachial a half inch below the bend of the elbow. It passes downward along the radial side of the forearm, internal to the muscular bellv and tendon of the brachio-radialis muscle ; a little above the wrist- joint it winds around the lower end of the radius to the posterior surface of the carpus ; then passes into the hand at the base of the first interosseous space, and forms the deep palmar arch by anastomosing Avith the communicating or deep palmar branch of the ulnar. Eelations of the Eadial in the Forearm. In front. Skin, superficial and deep fascia?, belly of brachio-radialis. Internally. Pronator radii teres. Flexor carpi radialis. Radial artery. Behind. Externally. Brachio - radi- alis. Radial nerve. Radius covered by supinator. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Pronator teres. Flexor longus pollicis. Pronator quadratus. Variations.—The radial frequently springs from the brachial in the arm, and may even arise from the axillary. Some- times it is very small, its place being taken by branches from the ulnar and interosseous, and in this case it may be that no pulse can be found in the usual position. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 463).—The radial can be exposed for ligation in any part of the forearm by an incision along the inner border of the brachio-radialis muscle, its belly above, its tendon below; after dividing the skin, superficial and deep fasciae, the muscle is drawn to the outer side and the artery exposed, ac- companied by venae comites and by the radial nerve, which is external. Branches.—The branches of the ra- dial are divided into three groups : those ■ , . 1 J? , ] • li • J. 1 Fig. 465.—Arteries of the forearm—front vieTT. m the forearm, those in the wrist, and (Testut.) those in the hand. The branches in the forearm are radial recurrent, muscular, anterior radial carpal, and the su]ierfieialis volae. The radial recurrent passes upward between the brachialis and the brachio-radialis to the anterior aspect of the external con-422 THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. dyle, where it anastomoses -with the su2)erior profunda of the brachial. Mus- cular branches are given oif from the radial to the muscles of the forearm ^\•ith which it is in contact. The anterior carpal branch of the radial supplies the anterior surface of the carpus, anastomosing with the anterior ulnar carpal artery. The superfieialis voice arises from the artery above the wrist, passes through the muscles of the thenar eminence, and anastomoses with the super- ficial palmar arch. The branches iit. the icrid are the jiosterior carpal, the first dorsal inter- osseous, the dorsal artery of the thuml), and the dorsal arterv of the index finger. The posterior carpal (Fig. 467) supplies the posterior surface of the carpus, anas- tomosing with the posterior carpal branch of the ulnar. The first dorsal inter- osseous artery supplies the interosseous space between the index and middle fin gers. The dorsal artery oj the thumb (dorsalis pollicis) runs over the dorsal Fig. 466.—Horizontal section at middle of right forearm—upper .surfaee of lower segment. (After Braune.) aspect of the thumb, dividing into two branches, which supply both sides of the dorsum of the thumb. The dorsal artery of the index fiur/cr (dorsalis indicis) sup- plies the outer side of the dorsal surfiice of the index finger. In the hand the radial gives off the following branches—the main arterv of the thumb (princeps pollicis), the radial artery of the index finger, the perforating, the interosseous, and the recurrent. The prineeps pjollicis passes downward in front of the metacarpal bone of the thumb to its head, where it divides into two branches, which supply the inner and outer surfiices of the thumb. The radialis indicis passes along the radial side of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, and supplies the radial side of this digit to its tip. The deep palmar arch (Fig. 468) is situated on the bases of the metacar])al bones, with the flexor tendons in front; it is completed bv the anastomosing of the radial with the deep communicating branch of the ulnar. The deep arch is about half an inch nearer the wrist than the superficial. From the arch are given ofi' the interosseous arteries, three in423 THE ARTEBIES. number, which run downward in the inner three interosseous spaces to join the digital arteries of the superficial arch above the webs of the fingers. Tlie deep arch gives off also a recurrent l^ranch to the wrist, and perforatiruj Ijrunches, Fig. 467.—Arteries of the dorsum of the hand. (Testut.) \Yhich pierce the bases of the three inner interosseous spaces, and anastomose with the dorsal interosseous arteries. THE DESCENDING AORTA. The descending arrrta begins at the lower border of the fifth thoracic vertebra, passes downwai'd in the thoracic and abdominal cavities in front of the spinal column to the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the common iliac arteries. It is divided into two portions, the thoracic in the chest-cavity, and the abdominal in the belly-cavity. The thoracic aorta (Fig. 469) extends from the lower border of the fifth dorsalTHE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 424 vertebra to the aortic opening in tlie diaphragm. The vessel is at first a little to the left of the median line, but gradually ajiproaches the median line at its termi- nation. It is in the posterior mediastinal space. ANTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS Fig. 4GS.—The deep palmar arch and its branches. The first metacarpal bone has been disarticulated to show the course of the radial around the wrist. (Testut.) Relatiois'S of the Thoracic Aorta. In front. Root of the left lung. CEsophagus. Pericardium. Right side. Left side. CEsophagus above. Thoracic Pleura and lung. Thoracic duct. , aorta. Oesophagus below. Behind. Thoracic vertebrte.425 THE ARTERIES. Variations.—Variations are often found in the number of intercostal arteries given olf from the aorta ; frequently the arteries of two or more intercostal spaces are given olf by a common trunk. A few cases are reported of obliteration of the aorta below the ductus arteriosus. These cases are consistent with life, a col- lateral circulation existing between the intercostals and branches given off' from the great arteries springing from the arch above the point of obliteration, and between the internal mammary and the deep epigastric. Surgical Anatomy.—The relations of the thoracic aorta should be studied with special reference to the pressure symptoms occurring in aneurism. The aneuri-m may by pressure produce absorption of the bodies of the thoracic vertebree, mav produce pain by pressure on the spinal nerves and the sympathetic nerves, may produce difficult deglutition by pressure on the oesophagus. The oesophagus is at first at the right of the vessel, then crosses in front of the vessel to occupy a position to the left below. By pressure on the thoracic duct, root of the left lung, the heart, and the great vessels, an aneurism may interfere with the function of these structures. Branches.—The branches of the thora- cic aorta are the pericardial, bronchial, oesophageal, posterior mediastinal, and intercostal arteries. The j)ericardkil are vessels of small size which supply the pericardium. The bronchial arteries supply the lung struct- ure with arterial blood. There are usually one or two vessels for each side, as a rule one for the right and two for the left. In addition to supplying the lungs the bronchial arteries send liranches to the bronchial lymphatic nodes, the pericardium, and the oesophagus. The ceHophageal arteries are small vessels, from three to five in number, given off from the course of the thoracic aorta, and supplying the oesophagus. The posterior mediastinal are small vessels of little moment, which pass backward to the thoracic vertebrae, and supply the lymph- atic nodes in the posterior mediastinum, and also the posterior portion of the diaphragm. The intercostal arteries arise from the posterior and lateral surfaces of the thoracic aorta and run outward to the intercostal spaces ; they vary from nine to eleven in number. The upper two intei'costal spaces are supplied, as already descril^ed, by the superior intercostal Ijranch of the subclavian. Often, however, an aortic intercostal is sent to the second intercostal space. These vessels run in, or just below, the well-marked intercostal grooves on the inner surfaces and lower borders of the ribs ; and running forward in the intercostal spaces to the anterior chest wall, they anastomose with the intercostal bi'anches from the internal mam- mary and musculo-phrenic. In their course the intercostals give off posterior branches which pass backward through the intercostal space to reach the deep muscles of the back, which they supply. Spinal branches to the cord and its membranes and to the vertebral column are derived from these. The colloicral Fig. 469.-Thoracic aorta. (Testut.)THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 426 intcrcosfal lirancli runs from tlie main artery at a point opposite the angle of the rih to the upper horder of the rib l)eh)wand runs forward in the intercostal space ; this branch is much smaller than the intercostal itself. In their course the inter- costal arteries and their branches send vessels to the thoracic walls, the parietal layer of the pleura, and the muscles covering the thorax ; several branches of good size are sent to the mammary gland, usually from the third and fourth intercostal arteries. The Abdominal Aorta (Fig. 470). The abdominal aorta begins at the aortic opening in the diaphragm, extends downward retrojieritoneally on the bodies of the lumbar vertebrte, either in the median line or a little to the left of it, and terminates on the body of the fourth 1711—Abdominal aorta. (Testut.) lumbar by dividing into the two common iliac arteries. This point is on a line drawn through the highest level of the iliac crests.THE ARTERIES. 427 Relatio>'S of the Abdojiixal Aorta. In front. Peritoneum. Stomach. Pancreas. Duodenum. Splenic vein. Left renal vein. Intestines. Solar plexus. Rigid side. Left sirJe. Inferior vena cava. Left crus of diaphragm. Thoracic duct. Abdominal Left semilunar ganglion. Right crus of diaphragm. aorta. Tail of pancreas. Right semilunar ganglion. Behind. Vertebral column. Receptaculum chyli. Thoracic duct. Variations.—These are commonly variations in length ; the vessel has been found to divide on the third lumbar or on the fifth lumbar, above or Ijeluw the usual point. Surgical Anatomy.—Aneurism of the abdominal aorta is frequently met with ; the relations of the aorta to surrounding structures should be carefully studied in order to interpret the pressure symptoms which may arise. By pressure on the lumbar vertebrte atrophy and absorption of the bodies may i-esult. Pressure on the spinal nerves and the sympathetic system produces pain and interference with the function of the structures and organs supplied by these nerves. The normal abdominal aorta in thin subjects is very readily outlined, and its pulsations dis- tinctly felt, and with the pressure of a stethoscope a murmur can be often pro- duced and heard, which must not be mistaken for aneurism. Ligation of the abdominal aorta has been performed, but always with fatal result. Successful cases of treating aneurism, by mechanical pressure and by operative interference in which silver wire was introduced into the sac, are recorded. Branches.—Tlie branches of the abdominal aorta can well he divided into two groups—a visceral group to the viscera of the abdominal and in part to the pelvic cavities, and a parietal group to the walls of the abdominal cavity. The riscern/ r/ronj) consists of the coeliac axis, the superior mesenteric, the inferior mesenteric, the suprarenal, the renal, and the spermatic. The parietal group consists of the phrenic, the lumljar, and the sacra media. The Coeliac Axis is given off from the abdominal aorta just below the aortic opening in the diaphragm ; it is a large short trunk, about a half inch in length, and divides into the gastric, the hepatic, and the splenic arteries. The gastric artery (Fig. 471) runs from the coeliac axis upward and to the left to the oesophageal orifice of the stomach ; thence it passes from left to right along the small curvature of the stomach to the pyloric opening. In the first part of its course it gives off branches to the oesophagus. The vessel is the smallest branch of the coeliac axis. The hepatic artery passes transversely to the right to the right free edge of the small omentum ; thence it passes upward in front of the foramen of AVinslow to the transverse fissure of the liver, and divides into two branches to supply the right and left lobes of the liver. Variations.—The hepatic artery is sometimes a separate trunk from the aorta ; sometimes an accessory hepatic artery is given off from the gastric, usually sup- plying the left lobe of the liver.THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 428 Surgical Anatomy.—The position of the hepatic artery and its relation to the common bile-duct and the portal vein nuist be carefully studied in operations on the common duct. These structures all lie in the free edge of the small omentum, which bounds the foramen of Winslow in front. The common duct is in front, the hepatic artery is to the left, and the ])ortal vein is behind. Branches.—The branches of the hepatic are the pyloric, the gastro-duodenalis, and the cystic arteries. The jji/lo/-ic branch passes to the pyloric end of the stomach, anastomosing with the pyloric branches from the gastric artery. The gadro-duodcnalis is a short, large vessel which passes downward and to the right Fig. 471.—Arteries of the stomach, liver, and great omentum. (Testut.) between the head of the pancreas and the duodenum, and divides into the gastro- epiploica dextra and the superior ])ancreatico-duodenalis. The gastro-epiploica dcxira, a vessel of large size, winds from right to left along the great curvature of the stomach between the folds of the great omentum, sujiplies the stomach and anastomoses with the gastro-epiploica sinistra of the splenic. The mpcrior pan- crcnfico-diiodenalis, a small vessel, winds downward between the head of the pan- creas and the duodenum, supplying these structures and anastomosing Avith the ptuicreatico-duodenalis inferior of the superior mesenteric. The cystic artery or arteries are usually branches of the right he])atic ; they supply the gall-bladder. The Splenic Artery is the largest branch of the ca?liac axis ; it runs from rightTHE ARTERIES. 429 to left along the upper surface of the pancreas to the spleen, where it breaks up into a number of branches which enter the hilum and supply that organ. Variations.—The splenic sometimes gives off a hepatic branch to the left lobe of the liver, and, rarely, branches to the intestines. Surgical Anatomy.—The position of the splenic artery should be carefully studied with reference to the operation of removal of the sj^leen. The fact that the artery does not enter the spleen as a single trunk, but as several branches, and often that these vessels enter the spleen at wide distances from each other, should be carefully noted. Branclie> of the splenic artery are the pancreatic, the short gastric, and the gastro-epiploica sinistra. The pancreatic are numerous branches supplying the pancreas ; one large trunk accompanies the main duct of the pancreas from left to right, and is called the pancreatica magna. The .short f/astric, half a dozen ves- sels of small size, supply the left extremity of the stomach. The gadro-cpiploica sinistra winds along the great curvature of the stomach, and anastomoses with the gastro-epiploica dextra. The Superior Mesenteric (Fig. 472).—The superior mesenteric arises from the Fig. 472.—Superior mesenteric artery, (Testut.) anterior surface of the abdominal aorta below the coeliac axis and behind the pan- creas. It passes downward between the folds of the mesentery, and breaks up into branches which supply the small intestines, the csecum, and the ascending and transverse colon. Variations.—The superior mesenteric sometimes gives off a hepatic branch, and sometimes supplies the descending colon.THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTE3L 430 Surgical Anatomy.—The position of the mesenteric branches in the mesentery shonld be carefully noted in operations for the removal of sections of the intes- tines. Although the branches anastomose freely in the mesentery, when they reach the intestine and are distributed to it, they wind between its walls at right angles to its long axis, and do not anastomose freely with each other; and, as a result of this fact, a separation of the mesentery for any considerable extent from the intestine cuts off the blood supply of the gut, nnd gangrene results. The Branches of the superior mesenteric are the inferior pancreatico-duo- denalis, the intestinal and the colic arteries. The inferior pancrcatico-duodenalis runs between the head of the pancreas and the duodenum, supplying those struct- ures, and anastomosing with the ]:)ancreatico-duodenalis superior. The intestinal branches supply all of the small intestines exccjit the duodenum. The colic branches are divided into the ileo-colic, the colica dextra or right colic, and the colica media or middle colic. The ileo-colic su])plies the caecum, the ileum adjoin- ing it, and the appendix. The rir/ht colic supplies the ascending colon ; the mid- dle colic, the transverse colon, and anastomoses with the left colic. Fig. 473.—Inferior mesenteric artery. (Testut.) The Inferior Mesenteric (Fig. 473).—The inferior mesenteric arises about an inch and a half above the termination of the aorta. It passes between the layers of the meso-colon and supplies the left portion of the transverse colon, the descending colon, and the sigmoid colon. Variations.—The inferior mesenteric is occasionally absent, its place being supplied by branches from the superior mesenteric.THE ARTERIES. 431 Surgical Anatomy.—The distribution and position of the superior hemorrhoidal branch and the blood sujjply of the rectum should be carefully studied in opera- tions for removal of the rectum. Branches of the inferior mesenteric are the left colic or colica sinistra, the sio-- moid, and the superior hemorrhoidal. The left colic supj)lies the descending colon, and anastomoses with the middle colic of the superior mesenteric and with tlie sigmoid branch. The sigmoid supplies the sigmoid colon, and anastomoses with the left colon and the superior hemorrhoidal. The superior hemorrhoidal is a vessel of some size which passes down between the folds of the meso-rectum to the rectum ; it then divides into two vessels which run on either side of the bowel for some distance, finally perforate the muscular coat, and divide into branches which run down the bowel beneath the mucous membrane to its lower end, and anastomose with the middle and inferior hemorrhoidal. The Suprarenal Artery.—The suprarenal are vessels of small size, which arise from the lateral surfaces of the aorta opposite to the origin of the superior mesen- teric, and pass transversely outward to the suprarenal bodies, which they supply. The Renal Artery.—The renal aiieries are vessels of very large size, whicii arise from the lateral surface of the aorta about half an inch below the origin of the superior mesenteric. They pass transversely outward to the hilum of the kid- neys, where they rapidly break up into branches supplying this organ. In their coui'se they are in contact with the renal vein in front and the ureter behind. Variations.—Frequently an additional renal artery exists, and there may l)e several renal arteries. Surgical Anatomy.—The position of the renal artery should be carefully studied in the operations on the kidney. In extirpation of the kidney it should be remembered that more than one renal artery occurs in about one out of five cases. The Spermatic Artery.—The spermatic artert/ arises from the anterior surface of the aiirta below the renal artery; it passes downward iK'hiiid the peritoneum and in front of the psoas magnus muscle ; it crosses the ureter, enters the inter- nal abdominal ring and forms one of the structures of the cord ; it is distributed to the testicle. Variations.—The spermatic is sometimes a branch of the renal, sometimes two spermatic arteries occur on each side, sometimes both spermatics arise from a common trunk. Surgical Anatomy.—In operations on or about the cord, as in castration, the position of the artery should be carefully noted. The Ovarian Artery of the female corres^jonds to the spermatic of the male. It takes the same course "behind the peritoneum, but as it reaches the broad ligament it passes between its folds to the ovary, and sends a branch of some size to the uterus. Variations.—The same variations are noted in the ovarian as those described as occurring in the spermatic. Surgical Anatomy.—The position and relations of the ovarian artery should l)e carefully studied with reference to the many operations in Avliich the broad liga- ment is involved. The Phrenic Arteries arise from the aorta above the coeliac axis, sometimes as a single trunk. They pass upward to the diaphragm, which they supjily, and they anastomose with the musculo-phrenic and superior phrenic branches of the internal mammary. Variations.—The origin of the phrenic arteries varies greatly : they may arise as a single trunk or as sejjarate vessels from the aorta, or from the coeliac axis. The Lumbar Arteries correspond to the intercostals. They are four or five in number on each side, and arise from the postero-lateral surface of the aorta. Passing outward behind the psoas magnus muscle, between the transverse pro- cesses of the lumbar vertebrfe, each divides into a dorsal and an abdominal branch. The dorsal branch passes backward, supplies the deep muscles of the back, andTHE BLOOB-YASCULAE SYSTEJtf. 432 gives olf a spinal branch, ^hich furnishes branches to the spinal cor»^ and mem- branes and TO the lumbar vertebree. The abdominal branch passes either in front of or behind the quadratus lumborum muscle to the muscles of the abdominal walls, winds forward, and anastomoses witli tlie intercostal arteries and branches from the external iliac, which supply the walls of tlie abdomen. Variations of the lumlvir arteries are not common. Two or more of the arteries are at times found to arise bv a common trunk. Sirrgical Anatomy.—In the operations to expose the kidney by lumbar incision, the position of tlie lumbar arteries should be remembered. The Sacra Media (middle sacral) artery arises from the lower end of tlie abdominal aorta, passes down the middle line of the last lumbar vertebra and sacrum, and to the tip of the coccyx, where it terminates in the structure known as Luschka's gland. It anastomoses freely in front of the sacrum with the lateral sacral arteries, and gives some branches to the rectum. Variations.—The middle sacral is sometimes a brancb from a lumbar artery, sometimes from the common iliac. Surgical Anatomy.—In the operation known as Kraske's operation, where the lower portion of the sacrum is removed, this ariery is to be regarded. THE COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES (Figs. 470, 474V The common iliac arteries take their origin from the aorta where it bifurc-ates opposite tlie fourth lumbar vertebra. They pa~s downward and outward behind INPEr^lOR VESICAL SCIATIC - -INTERNAL PUDIC ■UlCDLE SACRAL INTE'NAL P'J3 I Fis. i~^—Exiemal and intemai iliac arteries. (Testnt.) the peritoneum to the articulation between the last lumbar vertebra and the sac- rum, and divide int<^i the external and internal iliac arteries. The Relations of the common iliac arteries differ on the two sides, owing to the fact that the common iliac veins both pass to the ascending vena cava, which is to the riirht of the aorta.433 THE ARTERIES. Eelatioxs of the Eight Com3Iox Iliac. In front. Peritoneum. Small intestines. Ureter. Inner side. Eight iliac vein. Left iliac vein. Older side. Eight common Psoas magnus muscle, iliac artery. Ascending vena cava. Eight iliac vein. Behind. Lower two lumbar vertebrse. Both common iliac veins. Eelatioxs of the Left Cojoiox Lliac. In front. Peritoneum. Small intestines. Ureter. Superior hemorrhoidal artery. Inner side. Older side. Left common iliac vein. Left common iliac Psoas magnus muscle. artery. Behind. Lower two lumbar vertebrae. Left common iliac vein. Variations.—The length of the common iliac varies with the point of bifurca- tion of the abdominal aorta. When the abdominal aorta bifurcates high up, as it does sometimes, on the third lumbar vertebra, the common iliacs are long. When the bifurcation is opposite the fifth lumbar we find very short common iliacs. In rare cases the common iliac is absent, the external and internal iliacs springing directly from the aorta. The common iliac sometimes gives off the middle sacral or a lateral sacral branch. Surgical Anatomy.—The common iliac has been successfully tied for aneurism below this point. The majority of the operations have been extraperitoneal. The easiest and best method, however, is the transperitoneal. An incision is made in the median line below the umbilicus, with the patient in the Trendelen- burg position ; the intestines are held up out of the way, the posterior parietal peritoneum is divided over the artery, and the vessel isolated and ligated. Great care must be taken to avoid injury to the iliac veins, which, as has been seen, differ in their relations to the vessel on the two sides ; and the ureter, which, as a rule, crosses the lower portion of the vessel, must also be recognized and avoided. Branclies.—As a rule there are no branches given off in the course of the vessel. (See Variations.) The Internal Iliac Artery (Fig. 474). The internal iliac artery takes its origin at the point of bifurcation of the com- mon iliac opposite the articulation between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, and runs downward to the upper border of the great sacro-sciatic notch, where it bifurcates into an anterior and posterior trunk. 2S434 THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. Relations of the Internal Iliac Artery. Ill front. Peritoneum Ureter. Outer side. Internal Psoas magnus muscle. iliac artery. Belaud. Internal and external iliac veins. Lumbo-sacral nerve. Sacrum. Variations.—The principal variations found relate to its length, which varies from one to three inches. Sometimes the branches are given off from the vessel Avithout a j)rcvious division into an anterior and a posterior trunk. Surgical Anatomy.—Ligation of the internal iliac is sometimes required. The ligation can be made exti-aperitoneally, but is best made Ijy the same trans- peritoneal incision described for ligation of the common iliac. Branches of the internal iliac artery. From the anterior trunk are given ott' the vesical arteries, the middle hemorrhoidal, the uterine and vaginal in the female, the obturator, internal jiudic and sciatic arteries. From the posterior trunk are given otf the ileo-lumlnxr, lateral sacral, and gluteal. Tiie Vesical Arteries are tliree in number, the superior, middle, and inferior vesical, which supply the bladder, prostate, and sc'minal vesicles. From the superior vesical a til)rous cord passes upward to the umbilicus. This is the remains of the umbilical artery, which becomes obliterated after birth. The Middle Hemorrhoidal Artery supjilies the middle portion of the rectum, anastomosing with tlie superior hemf>rrhoidal, a branch from the inferior mesen- teric, and with the inferior hemorrhoidal, a branch from the internal pudic. The Uterine Arteries are vessels of good size which run to the neck of the uterus, ascend along its lateral wall in the folds of the broad ligament to the fundus, and anastomose with the ovarian and vaginal arteries. The Vaginal Arteries are, as a rule, two or three branches which supply the vaginal walls. Surgical Anatomy.—The position of the uterine artery and its relations to the uterus and the broad ligament slK)uld be carefully studied in connection with the many operations performed on the uterus and its ajipendages. The Obturator Artery runs downward and forward to the upper part of the obturator fbi-amen. Here it passes out of the pelvis through an opening in the upper part of the obturator fascia, to be distributed to the upper and inner aspect of the thigh. From the portion of the artery within the pelvis several small branches are given off, an iliac branch to the iliac fossa, a vesical branch to the bladder, and a pudic branch, which Avinds upward along the inner margin of the femoral ring. In the thiffh the obturator divides into an internal and an external set of branches. The interval passes downward on the inner surface of the tliigh to be distributed to the adductor muscles. The external winds outward behind the femur to be distributed to the external rotators of the tliigh. Variations.—The variations of the obturator are frequent, and shoidd be care- fullv noted in connection with the study of femoral hernia. In almost one-third of dissections the vessel, instead of arising from the internal iliac, is a branch from the deep epigastric. In some cases it is given off from the external iliac. Surgical Anatomy.—When the obturator is given off from the deep epigastric, it winds downwai'd to reach the obturator foramen. In the majority <jf cases it is Inner side. Internal iliac vein.THE ARTERIES. 435 in close contact with the iliac vein, and, therefore, would be external to a femoral hernia. In a small proportion of cases it winds along the inner border of the femoral ring and would be internal to a femoral hernia. In operations for the relief of strangulated femoral hernia this possibility must be borne in mind. The Internal Pudic Artery (Figs. 474—476) is one of the terminal branches into which the anterior trunk of the internal iliac divides, the other being the sciatic. The internal pudic supplies the perineum and the external genitals. It is larger in the male than in the female. The internal pudic leaves the pelvis Fig. 475—Arteries of the back ot the iiip and thigh. (Testut.) through the great sacro-sciatic foramen below the pyriformis muscle, winds over the spine of the ischium, enters the pelvis again through the small sacro-sciatic foramen, runs in a groove along the ascending ramus of the ischium, entex's the perineum, and breaks up into branches, which supply the perineum and the exter- nal genital organs. Variations.—The most frequent variation is the occurrence of an accessory pudic branch, which runs to the anterior angle of the outlet of the pelvis below the symphysis pubis, perforates the triangular ligament, and supplies branches to the external genitals.THE BLOOD-VASTULAB SYSTEM. 436 Surgical Anatomy.—The position of the piidic artery and its branches must be carefully studied with reference to the many operations performed on the perineum and on tlie external genitals. In the old lateral operation for stone the arters", or one of its large branches, may be wounded, and give rise to serious hemorrhage. In external urethrotomy and in median lithotomy the roof of the membranous urethra should be avoided, as immediately above it lies the large arterv of the bulb, a branch of the internal pndie. The artery can be ligated at two points of its course ; the Urst where it crosses the otiter surface of the spine of the ischium, and second along the ascending ramus of the os pubis. The Branclies of the internal pudic are small branches given off within the pelvis to the muscles with which it is in contact. In the perineum the branches are the inferior hemorrhoidal, superficial perineal, transverse perineal, artery of the liulb. artery of the coq)us cavernosum, and dorsal artery of the penis. The inferior hemorrlioidal crosses the ischio-rectal fossa to reach the lower end of the bowel, to which it is distributed, as well as to the contiguous integument. It anastomoses with the other hemorrhoidal arteries. The superficial perineal winds upward and inward beneath the superficial perineal fascia, and supplies the superficial muscles and integument of the peri- neum proper. The transverse perineal (often a branch of the superficial perineal) runs along the trausversus perinei to the median line to the bulb of the urethra. The artery of the "bvlb is a vessel of good size which is given off frnm the internal pudic between the layers of tlie triangtilar ligament. It passes upward and inward to the bulb, which it supplies. This vessel and its branches often give rise to troublesome or even serious hemorrhage in the operation of external urethrotomy or median lithotomy, in which the bulb is divided ; or the artery mav be wounded in operations for lateral lithotomy. The artery of the corpus cavemosum rims upward and inward between the lavers of the triangular ligament t<i the cor[)us cavernosuni, which it supplies, breaking up into the covtrnou~ spaces of that structure. The dorsal artery of the penis passes upward to the suspensory ligament of the penis, which it pierces, and runs along the fibrous sheath of the tipper surface of the penis to the glans, which it supplies. This vessel communicates with the artery of the corpus cavernosum. In ampittations of the penis these vessels must be ligated. The arteries of the corpus cavernosum are best controlled by sewing up the strong fibi'ous sheath of each corpus. The distribution of the internal \m(\\c in the female is practicallv the same as in the male, but the vessel is smaller. The arterv of the bulb supplies the bulbus vestiljuli. and tlie terminal branches send an arterv to the corpus cavernosum of the clitoris and a dorsal artery to the clitoris. The Sciatic Artery (Fig. 47-5) is one of the two terminal branches from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac. It leaves the pelvis through the great sacro- sciatic foramen below the pyriformis muscle, and passes down the back of the thitrh in close companv with the sciatic nerves to supply the l3Uttock and upper portion of the posterior asjieet of the thigh. "Variations.—The sciatic sometimes arises by a common trunk with the gluteal. Rarelv the sciatic is a vessel of great size, and is the main source of blood for the lower extremitv, practically taking the place of the femoral. Surgical Anatomy.—The sciatic may be ligated as it leaves the pelvis. An incision should be made in a line drawn from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the tuberosity of the ischium, the fibres of the gluteus maximus separated, tlie pvriformis muscle exposed, and beneath its lower border the sciatic artei'v is found. The same incision exposes the internal pudic, as it winds over the surface of the spine of the ischium. Branches.—"Within the pelvis the arterv gives off small branches to the mus- cles with which it is in contact. After leaving the pelvis it gives off coccygeal, inferior gluteal, muscular and articular branches, and a branch which accompanies437 THE ARTERIES. the sciatic nerve. The coccygeal branches supply the tissues about the coccyx. The gluteal branches supply the lower portion of the gluteus ruaxiraus muscle. The comes nerri ischiadici supplies the great sciatic nerve, running for some dis- tance along its sheath. The muscular branches are distributed to the external rotator muscles of the thigh. The articular branches are distributed to the hip- joint. The brancJie.s from the posterior trunk of the internal iliac are the gluteal, Uio-lumbar, and lateral sacral. The Gluteal Artery (Fig. 475) is a vessel of large size which leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen above the pyriformis muscle. It then divides into a superHcial and deep branch. The superficial runs into the gluteus maximus muscle, and is distributed to its substance. The deep branch runs " LEVATOR ANI i / 1 MUSCULAR VESSELS SPHINCTER ANI / INFERIOR H E M O R R H O I D A L V E S S E LS EXTERNU3 TRAKiSVERSE PERINEI Fig. 476.—Arteries of the perineum. (Testut.) between the gluteus medius and gluteus minimus, and breaks up into two sets of vessels, a superior and inferior, which supply these muscles. Variaiions of the gluteal are rare. The gluteal may arise by a common trunk with the sciatic, or may be absent, and its place be taken by a large branch from the femoral. Surgical Anatomy.—The gluteal may be ligated by making an incision on a line drawn from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the great trochanter. The fibres of the gluteus maximus are separated, and the upper border of the pyriformis muscle is exposed. At about the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the surface-line the artery is found. The Ilio-Lumbar Artery passes outward behind the iliac vessels and psoas raagnus muscle. Behind the muscle it divides into two sets of branches; the lumbar which are distributed to the psoas magnus and the quadratus lumborum mu.acles, and an iliac set, which are distributed to the iliacus muscle. The Lateral Sacral Arteries are two in ninnber, sometimes arising from a com- mon trunk. They pass to the anterior surface of the .sacrum, where they are dis-438 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTE3L tributed to the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, and to the sacral nerves. Branches are sent into the anterior sacral foramina, where they supply the con- tents of the sacral canal and the bone. The External Iliac Artery (Figs. 470, 474). The external ilkie arfcrj/ arises from the division of the common iliac opposite the articulation between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, passes down- ward and outward behind the peritoneum and along the inner border of the psoas magnus muscle to the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament, where it becomes the femoral. Eelatiojn^s of the External Iliac Artery. In front. Peritoneum. Intestines. Inner side. External External iliac vein and vas iliac deferens, artery. Behind. External iliac vein. Psoas magnus muscle. Variations.—The external iliac is sometimes of small size; its resulting femoral is small, and the lower extremity usually then receives a large part of its blood supply from a large sciatic artery. The obturator is occasionally a branch of tlie external iliac. Surgical Anatomy.—The first portion of the external iliac is best exposed by a transperitont al incision either in the mid-line or along the outer border of the rectus, with the j^atient in Trendelenburg's position, as in the ligation of the com- mon or internal iliac arteries. The lower portion of the external iliac is exposed best by an extraperineal operation. An incision is made above Poupart's liga- ment, the layers of the abdominal muscles are separated, as in the McBurney and McArthur incision for appendicitis; the peritoneum is exposed, but not divided. Witli tlie fingers the j^eritoneum in front of the artery is pushed uj) out of the way, and tlie vessel exposed with its aceomjwnying vein. Care must be taken not to injure the two large branches of the external iliac given oft" just above the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament. Branches of the external iliac are the deep epigastric and the deep circumflex iliac arteries. The Deep Epigastric (Fig. 456) arises from the external iliac just above the inguinal ligament. It passes inward and a little downward at first, then upward and inward between tlie transversalis fascia and the peritoneum to the posterior surface of the rectus muscle, continues upward, breaking into branches in the substance of the rectus, and anastomoses with the superior epigastric branch of the internal mammary. Variations.—The deep epigastric may take origin higher up from the external iliac, from any part of its course. As already noted the deej^ epigastric very often gives off the obturator artery. Surgical Anatomy.—Tlie deep epigastric artery has an important relation to inguinal hernia. The vessel in the first part of its course is situated between the two rings and will therefore be internal to an oblique hernia, and external to a direct hernia. Its position should be carefully noted in operations for hernia. The Branches of the deep epigastric are the cremasteric, pubic, and muscular branches. The cremasteric artery supplies the coverings of the spermatic cord. Outer side. Psoas magnus muscle.439 THE ARTERIES. The pubic winds around the inner margin of the femoral ring, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the obturator. Muscular branches are distributed to the muscles of the abdominal wall. The Deep Circumflex Iliac Artery arises from the outer surface of the external iliac just above Poupart's ligament. It runs upward and outward, covered by the transversalis fascia, to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. It then runs along the crest of the ilium to about its centre, pierces the abdominal muscles, and breaks \\]) into branches supplying them. Fig. 477.—Femoral artery. iTestut.) The Femoral Artery (Fig. 477). The femoral artery is the continuation of the external iliac opposite the inguinal ligament, about midway between the superior anterior spine and the symphysis pubis. It passes down the anterior and inner side of the thigh and terminates at the opening in the adductor magnus muscle by becoming the pop- liteal. In about the upper half of its course it lies in a surgical region called440 THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. Scarpa's triangle ; in the lower half in an aponeurotic and muscular passage, called Hunter's canal. The vessel divides or rather gives otF a large branch, the deep femoral (profunda), about two inches below the inguinal ligament. The portion of the vessel above this branch is called the common femoral, and its continuation is called the superficial femoral. Relations of the Comjion Femoral Artery. In front. Skin and superficial fascia. Iliac portion of fascia lata. Outer side. Inner side. Common Anterior crural nerve. femoral Femoral vein. artery. Behind. Puljic portion of fascia lata. Psoas magnus niuscle. Pectineus muscle. Capsular ligament of hip. The Superficial Femoral Artery. This vessel extends from the point at which the deep femoral bi'anch is given off to the ()|)ening in the adductor magnus muscle. Relations of the Superficial Femoral Artery. 1)1 fro)d. Skin and superficial fascia. Fascia lata. Sartorius muscle. Fibrous covering of Hunter's canal. Outer side. Inner side. Long saphenous nerve. Superficial Adductor longus. Vastus internus muscle. femoral Adductor magnus. Femoral vein. artery. Sartorius. Behind. Femoral vein. Profunda vessels. Pectineus muscle. Adductor longus muscle. Adductor magnus muscle. Scarpa's Triangle is a surgical region of much importance, and should be cai'c- fully studied. The student is advised to draw a sketch of the triangle and its contents. It is hounded above by the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament, externally by the sartorius muscle, internally by the adductor longus muscle. The floor of this space is formed by the adductor longus, adductor brevis, pectineus, psoas magnus, and iliacus muscles. The contents are the femoral vessels and their branches, and the anterior crural nerve. The s])ace contains also the superficial lyni])hatic nodes which receive the lymph from the lower extremity. Hunter's Canal is a three-sided, filn-o-muscular canal, occupied by the femoral vessels and the internal saphenous nerve. A strong fibrous layer, extending441 THE ARTERIES. in front of the vessels, and between the vastus internus on the outer side and adductor niagnus and longus on the inner, forms its anterior boundary, and the muscles named make its other sides. Superficial to tlie canal is the sartorius muscle. Variations.—The femoral may be very small, and terminate in the upper part of the thigh ; and the lower limb in such cases receives its blood supply in large part from a very large sciatic artery. The femoral has been seen to divide into two vessels and then unite to form a single popliteal. Variations in branches are frequently noted. The circumflex arteries, one or both, are sometimes derived from the common femoral instead of from the profunda. The profunda is some- times given off' from the inner side of the vessel instead of the outer side. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 478).—The femoral artery is, of course, ligated in Fig. 478.—Surgical relations of the femoral artery. (Kocher.) amputations of the upper two-thirds of the thigh, and the exact position of this vessel and its branches should be studied in cross-sections of the thigh. The student is advised to make sketches of such transverse sections at various levels, and learn in this way the relations of the structures as they present themselves inTHE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 442 circular amputations of the tliigli. The femoral can be ligated at anv part of its course. To ligate the common fenjoral make an incision in a line which bisects Scarpa's triangle, passing from the middle of the base to the apex. Beginning at the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament and passing downward three inches, divide skin, su])ertieial and deep fascia. The common femoral will be exposed, with the vein situated internally and in close contact, and with the anterior crural nerve exter- nally, and separated from it by a distance of a half inch. The femoral can be ligated at the apex of Scarpa's triangle by an incision along the inner border of the sartorius muscle in this position. The muscle FEMORAL ARTERY^ FEMORAL VEIN SAPHENOUS VEIN, NTERIOR CRURAL NERVE PROFUNDA ARTERY Fig. 479.—Horizontal section of the right thigh near the perineum—upper surface of the lower segment. (After Braune.) is drawn outward, the deep fascia divided, and the vessel is exposed. The vein is here jjosterior to the artery, and the internal saphenous nerve is to the outer side. The femoral can be ligated in Hunter's canal by an incision along the outer Ijorder of the sartorius in this position ; the sartorius is drawn inward, the tibrous covering of the canal divided, and the artery exposed, with the vein behind or external, and the internal sa])henous nerve superficial and external. The Branches of the femoi-al arc the superficial epigastric, superficial external443 THE ARTERIES. pudic, superficial circumflex iliac, deep external pudic, profunda (deep femoral), muscular, and anastomotica magna arteries. The Superficial Circumflex Iliac is given off from the femoral just below the inguinal ( Pou])art's) litianicnt. It is a vessel of small size. It runs upward and outward in the superficial fascia to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The Superficial Epigastric is given off immediately below the inguinal (Pou- part's) ligament, and winds up over this structure to the lymphatic nodes and superficial structures in the inguinal region. The Superficial External Pudic is given olF a little lower than the preceding, passes upward and inward, crosses the spermatic cord close to the inguinal canal, and supplies the integument in the hypogastric region and that of tlie external genitals. This artery is almost always divided in operations for hernia and for varicocele. The Deep External Pudic runs inward for some distance beneath the fascia lata to reach the perineum and external genitals, to which it is supplied. The Profunda (Fig. 477) or deep femoral, a branch of large size, is given off usually from the outer side of the femoral, two inches below the inguinal (Pou- part's) ligament. It passes downward, at first external to the femoral vessels, then behind them to the posterior surface of the adductor longus muscle, and terminates by perforating the adductor maguus muscle to reach the posterior sur- face of the thigh. The branches of the profunda are the external circumflex, the internal circum- flex, and the perforating arteries. The external circumflex is given off from the outer surface of the first portion of tlie profunda. It passes outward beneath the rectus femoris muscle to the outer aspect of the thigh, and divides into three branches, ascending, transverse, and descending. The ascending passes up to the buttock, and anastomoses with the gluteal arteries ; the transverse winds around the thigh, supplying the vastus externus, and vastus intermedins ; the descending passes downward on the outer aspect of the thigh, as far as the knee. The internal circumflex (Fig. 475) is given olf from the inner aspect of the profunda near its origin. It winds back- ward between the psoas and pectineus muscles to the lesser trochanter of the femur, near which it divides into two sets of branches, the ascending and transverse. The ascending follows the obturator externus to its insertion in the great trochanter. The transverse winds backward around the femur just below the great trochanter. The internal circtimflex gives olf also an articular branch to tlie hip-joint. The perforating arteries, three or four in number, are given ofi^ from the course of the profunda artery behind the adductor magnus ; they per- forate the adductor magnus, reach the posterior surface of the tliigh, wind around the femur in close contact with the bone, sup])ly the hamstring muscles, and terminate in the vastus externus and vastus intermedins muscles. The nutrient artery of the femur is derived from the third perforating artery. iMuscular liranches are given off from the femoral in its entire course to the contiguous muscles. The Anastomotica Magna is given off from the femoral just before its termi- nation. The artery passes downward, and divides into two branches : a super- ficial branch, which accompanies the internal saphenous nerve and vein, supplying tlie integument, and a deep branch, which passes down between the vastus inter- nus and the adductor magnus to terminate in the popliteal space. Both branches anastomose with the articular branches of the popliteal artery. The Popliteal Artery (Fig. 480) is a continuation of the femoral. It begins at the opening in the adductor magnus muscle through which the femoral passes, extends downward through the centre of the popliteal space, resting on the femtir, posterior ligament of the knee-joint and the popliteus muscle, to the lower border of the latter, where it divides into its two terminal branches, the anterior and posterior tibial.444 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. Relations of the Popliteal Aeteey. //( front. Femur. Posterior ligament of knee. Popliteus muscle. Inner side. Outer side. Inner hamstring muscles. p , Biceps. Inner head of gastroc- . Outer head of gastroc- nemius, nemius. Behind. Skin, superficial and deep fascife. External saphenous vein. Internal popliteal nerve. Popliteal vein. It is partially covered, behind by the muscles forming the boundaries of the space. The Popliteal Space is the diamond-shaped area at the back of the knee- joint. The student is advised to make a sketch of this space, its boundaries, and contents. The popliteal space is bounded above by the inner hamstring inter- FiG. 480.—Popliteal artery. (Testut.) nallv, and by the outer hamstring externally. It is bounded below by the inner and outer heads, of the gastrocnemius muscle. The floor of the space is formed above by the posterior surface of the femur, in the centre by the posterior liga-THE ARTERIES. ment of the knee-joint and below by the popliteus muscles. The space contains the popliteal artery in close contact with its floor, the popliteal vein superficial to the artery and the internal popliteal nerve superficial to the vein, these structures being almost in the mid-line of the space. The external popliteal nerve runs along the outer and upper border of the space, in close contact with the biceps. The space contains much fat and areolar tissue, and a few lymphatic nodes. Variations.—The popliteal sometimes divides into three branches, the anterior tibial, the posterior tibial, and the peroneal; at times into the anterior tibial and peroneal, the peroneal supjjlying the place of the posterior tibial. Sometimes a high division of the popliteal occurs opposite the knee-joint. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 4811.—The popliteal is sometimes injured in fracture Fig. 481.—Surgical relations of the popliteal artery. (Kocher.) of the lower end of the femur. AVhen the lower end of the femur is divided in operations to correct the deformity of knock-knee, the artery must be carefully avoided. The popliteal artery, next to the aorta, is the most common site of aneurism. This condition is relieved usually by pressure, or the ligation of the femoral, although at times the aneurismal sac is dissected out, and the artery ligated above and below the lesion. The pojiliteal can be exposed and ligated at any part of its course. The artery is more superficial in the upper and lower portions of the popliteal space than in the middle portion. In exposing the vessel in any part of its course the fact that the internal popliteal nerve and the popliteal vein are superficial to the artery must be borne in mind, and these structures avoided. The Branches of the popliteal artery are the muscular, the cutaneous, the articular, and the anterior and j^osterior tibial. The muscular are distributed to the muscles forming the boundai'ies of the popliteal space, a superior set to the hamstring muscles, and an inferior set to the gastrocnemius, plantaris, soleus, and popliteus. The cutaneous branches supply the integument over the calf of the leg. The articular branches are five in number : the superior inter- nal, the superior external, the azygos, the inferior internal, and the inferior external articular arteries. The superior and inferior articular arteries wind around the knee-joint, and form an anastomosis with each other around the patella. These vessels anastomose with the i-ecurrent branches from the arteries of the leg, with the anastomotica magna of the femoral, and with the perforatingTHE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 446 of the profunda. The azygos articular penetrates the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and supplies the intra-articular ligaments and synovial membrane. The Posterior Tibial Artery (Fig. 482). The posterior tibial artery is the larger of ,' the two terminal branches of the popliteal, and appears as though it were the continuation of the latter. It passes down the leg on the tibial side between the deep and superficial layers of mus- cles on the back of the leg, covered also by the deep transverse fascia of the leg, until it reaches the inner ankle, where it divides into tlie internal and external plantar arteries. The important points to be remembered in regard to the course of the posterior tibial are that it is on the tibial side of the leg, between the deep and superficial layers of muscles, covered also by the deep trans- verse fascia of the leg, and accom^mnied by the posterior tibial nerve and vense comites. ANTERIOR TIBIAL Eelations of the Posterior Tibial Artery, In front. Tibialis posterior muscle. Flexor longus digitorum. Tibia. Ankle-joint. Inner side. A^ena comes. Posterior tibial artery. Outer side. Vena comes. ANTERIOR " PERONEAL Behind. Skin, superficial and deep fascice. Gastrocnemius. Soleus. Deep transverse fascia. Posterior tibial nerve. Variations.—The posterior tibial may be small, its place being taken by a large peroneal artery. The vessel may arise from a high division of the popliteal. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 483).—In amjnita- tions of the leg the posterior tibial is fdinid between the superficial and deep muscles on the tibial side. Ligations of the posterior tibial may be required for injury or aneurism. The vessel may be ligated at any part of its course. In the middle of the leg the artery can be exposed by an incision a finger's breadth behind and parallel with the inner border of the tibia. The skin, superficial and deep fascife are divided, the tibial origin of the soleus is exposed and divided, and the deep transverse fascia, which now comes into view, is also divided. The vessel is found accompanied by the posterior tibial nerve and the Fig. 482 —Arteries in the dorsal part of the leg. (Testut.)THE ARTERIES. 447 venae comites. In the lower part of its course, opposite the inner ankle, the vessel occupies a position midway between the internal malleolus and the os calcis. It can be exposed by a curved incision dividing the skin, superficial and deep fasciae, and the internal annular ligament. The position of the vessel at the inner ankle should be noted in making tenotomies of the tibialis posterior tendon. .M_,1NTERNAL SAPHENOUS NERVE -INTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN POSTERIOR TIBIAL VEIN FASCIA Fig. 483.—Surgical relations of the posterior tibial artery. (Kocher.) The Branches of the posterior tibial are the muscular, peroneal, nutrient, com- municating, internal calcanean, and its terminal branches, the internal and exter- nal plantar. The muscular are distril)uted to the deep layer of muscles on the back of the The Peroneal (Fig. 482) is a large artery, which is given oiF an inch or more448 THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. below the origin of the posterior tibial. It passes down the fibular side of the leg close to the fibula, either lying on or contained in the fibres of the flexor longus hallucis muscle. At the lower border of the interosseous membrane it gives off an anterior peroneal branch, which runs forward to the anterior and outer surfaces of the ankle. The rest of the vessel is continued dowuAvard, to the posterior surface of the outer ankle and the os calcis. In its course the peroneal gives oft' muscular branches to the contiguous muscles, a nutrient branch to the fibula, a communicatinf/ branch to anastomose back of the ankle with the communicating branch from the posterior tibial. The vessel is accompanied by venag comites, but not by a nerve-trunk. Variations (see posterior tibial artery). Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 484).—The peroneal is ligated in amputations of the Fig. 484.—Surgical relations of the peroneal artery. (Kocher.) leg. The ]-)Osition of the vessel on the fibular side of the leg between the deep and superficial muscles, or in the substance of the flexor longus hallucis, should be noted. The peroneal artery can be ligated in the middle portion of its course through an incision a finger's breadth behind and parallel to the fibula. The449 THE ARTERIES. POSTERIOR Tl BIAL skin, superficial and deep fasciae are divided, and the fibular origin of the soleus then comes into view. This is divided, and the deep transverse fascia is exposed; this is also divided, and the artery is found accompanied by vense comites, either lying on or in the muscular substance of the flexor longus hallucis. The nutrient artery from the poste- rior tibial is a vessel of large size, which enters the nutrient foramen in the tibia on its posterior surface. The com- municating branch passes from the pos- terior tibial outward just above the ankle-joint to anastomose with a simi- lar branch from the peroneal. The Internal Calcanean Arteries are given off from the posterior tibial just above the ankle; they supply the tis- sues of the heel. The position of these vessels is of importance in amputations, such as Syme's and PirogofF's. Care should be taken not to injui'e these ves- sels in making the heel flap, because, if they are injured, sloughing is apt to result. The terminal branches of the poste- rior tibial are the internal and external plantar. The Internal Plantar (Fig. 485) arises from the posterior tibial at the inner ankle, passes forward along the inner side of the foot, and terminates at the inner side of the great toe. It supplies the inner side of foot and great toe. The External Plantar is a vessel of large size; it passes outward and for- ward to the base of tlie metatarsal bone of the little toe, being covered by the plantar fascia. It then winds inward and forward on bases of the metatarsal bones to the interosseous space between the great and second toes, and here anastomoses with the deep, communicat- ing branch from tlie dorsalis pedis, thus completing the plantar arch. Variations.—The plantar arteries vary somewhat in size. In some cases the internal plantar is larger than usual, and supplies two or more toes, the ex- ternal plantar being correspondingly smaller. Penetrating wounds of the jjlantar arch may give rise to severe hemorrhage. This, however, can usually be controlled by pressure, or by a free dissection, the bleeding points being found and ligated. The Branches of the External Plantar are small musculax", cutaneous, and articular branches to the contiguous muscles, integument, and joints, and the posterior perforating and digital branches. The -posterior perforating are small trunks which perforate the second, third, and fourth interosseous spaces to com- municate with the dorsal interosseous arteries. The digital arteries are four in number, and sujjply the outer side of the little toe and the contiguous sides of 29 Fig. 485.—Arteries in the sole of tlie foot. (Testut.)THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 450 the second and tliird, the thh'd and fourth, the fourth and fifth. The contiguous sides of the great toe and second toe will be found, in the description of the dorsalis pedis, to be supplied by its deep plantar branch. Opposite the web of the toes each digital branch gives olf a perforating artery, which anastomoses with the dorsal interosseous arteries. The Anterior Tibial Artery (Fig. 486). The antmor tibial a^iery begins at the bifurcation of the popliteal, at the lower border of the popliteus muscle. It passes between the heads of origin of the tibialis posterior muscle, above the upper border of the interosseous membrane, to the anterior surface of the leg, runs downward on the ante- rior surface of the interosseous mem- brane, accompanied by the anterior tibial nerve and venae comites, and in a position external to the til)ialis anterior muscle, to the bend of the ankle. Here the vessel becomes the dorsalis pedis. ANTERIOR TIBIAL RECURRENT ANTERIOR TIBH NERVE ANTERIOR PERONEAL EXTERNAL MALLEOLAR Relations of the Anterior Tibial Artery. In front. Skin, superficial and deep fascise. Tibialis anterior muscle. Tendon of the extensor proprius pol- licis. Inner side. Tibialis anterior. Anterior tibial artery. Outer side. Anterior tibial nerve. Extensor longus digitorum. Extensor pro- prius hallucis. I NTERNAL MALLEOLAR Behind. Interosseous membrane. Tibia. Fig. i8G.—Anterior tilnal artery, (lestut Variations.—The anterior tibial may be very small, or absent, its place being taken by branches from the posterior tibial or peroneal. It has been seen to accompany the mus- culo-cutaneous nerve, winding around the fibula to reach the front of the leg. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 487).—In amputations of the leg the anterior tibial is ligated. It should be noted that it lies in front of the interosseous membrane, and external to the tibialis anterior, and that it is accompanied by venje comites and the anterior tibial nerve. The anterior tibial can be ligated at any part of its course through an incision along the line of the outer border of the tibialis anterior muscle. This incision should divide the skin, superficial and deep fasciie. The outer border of the tibialis anterior is found ; this muscle is then separated from the two other muscles on the front of the leg : the extensor longus digitorum and451 THE ARTERIES. the extensor proprius hallucis. Tlie artery will be found on the interosseous membi'aiie, accompanied by venae comites, and with the anterior tibial nerve to the outer side. Xow that the student has reviewed the arteries of the leg, it is advised tliat sketches be made of transverse sections at several levels showing the position of the vessels and their relation to other structures. Fig. 487.—Surgical relations of the anterior tibial artery of the right leg. (Kocher.) Branches of the anterior tibial are the anterior tibial recurrent, the posterior tibial recurrent, muscular, and the internal and external malleolar arteries. The posterior tibial recurrent is given off from the vessel before it gains the anterior aspect of the leg. It passes upward to the popliteal space, and anastomoses with the inferior articular branches of the popliteal. The anterior tibial recurrent is given oif from the vessel immediately after it appears on the anterior surface ofTHE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTE3L 452 the leg. It winds upward in the sul)stance of tlie tibialis anterior to the patella, and anastomoses with the arteries forming the patellar anastomosis. Muscular branches are given off to the muscles on the antei'ior surface of the leg. The malleolar arteries are small branches given off from the lower portion of the ante- rior tibial. The external malleolar supplies the tissues over the outer ankle, the internal malleolar those over the inner ankle. The Dorsalis Pedis (Fig. 489).—The dorsalis pedis is the continuation of the anterior til>ial. It begins at the bend of the ankle, and continues downward and forward to the base of the lirst interosseous space, where it divides into the dor- FiG. 488.—Horizontal section at middk' of riglit leg—upper surface of lower segment. (After Braune.) sails hallucis and the communicating or plantar digital branch. The vessel is superficial in position ; it is accompanied by the anterior tibial nei've and venae comites ; it is external to the tendon of the extensor proprins hallucis. Variations.—The dorsalis pedis varies in size greatly; when large, it assists materially the plantar arteries in supplying the sole of the foot; when small, the plantar arteries may furnish a large part of the supply for the dorsum. Surgical Anatomy.—The dorsalis pedis can be exjiosed by an incision along the outer side of the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis. It is accompanied by the anterior til>ial nerve and by vena3 comites. The Branches of the dorsalis pedis are the tarsal, metatarsal, dorsalis hallucis, and communicating or plantar digital. The tarsal artery winds outward over theTHE ARTERIES. 453 dorsal surface of the tarsal bones, supplying them and contiguous structures. The metatarsal winds outwai'd over the bases of the metatarsal bones, forming an arch from which three interosseous branches are given oti', which run forward in the three interosseous spaces to the webs of the toes, where they anastomose with the digital branches of the plantar arch. At the origin of these interosseous branches, perforating branches from the plantar arch communicate with each ves- sel. The dorsalis hallucis runs forward in the first interosseous space to the web Fig. 489.—Arteries of the dorsum of the foot. (Testut.) of the toes ; here it divides into two branches, supplying the contiguous sides of the great and second toe. The covimunicating or plantar digital branch perforates the first interosseous space to reach the plantar surface of the foot. Here it anastomoses with the external plantar, and completes the plantar arch. It then continues forward in the plantar surface of the first interosseous space to the web of the toes. Here it divides into two branches which supply the contiguous sur- faces of the great and second toes.454 THE VEINS. By G. WOOLSEY. THE veins are the vessels through whicli tlie blood is returned from the capil- laries to the heart. Like the arteries, they may be divided into the pul- monary and the systemic. THE PULMONARY VEINS. These consist of two large, short trunks on either side, in the root of the corresponding king (Fig. 490). They extend nearly horizontally inward and for- ward from the hilum of the lung to the upper part of the back of the left auricle. They lie in front of and below the corresponding pulmonary arteries, and on ]iiercing the pericardium they are invested on their ventral aspect only by the Fig, 490—Pulmonary veins, seen in a dorsal view of the heart and lungs. (Testut.) I i serous layer of that membrane. The two rir/hf pulmonary veins pass behind the superior vena cava, the ascending portion of the aorta, and the right auricle. The two left pulmonary veins pass in front of the descending portion of the aorta. They convey arterial blood, and have no valves.THE VEINS. 455 The pulmonary veins are but little larger than the arteries they aeconipany. The right superior pulmonary vein commonly receives the vein from the middle lobe of the right lung, but sometimes the latter continues to the auricle sej)arately as a third vein. The two pulmonary veins, on a side, more often on the left, sometimes unite, and terminate in a single trunk. ■■- THE SYSTEMIC VEINS. These convey the blood from the caj)illary plexuses of the rest of the body to the right auricle of the heart, which most of the veins of the heart enter by the coronary sinus, and the veins of the remainder of the body by the superior and inferior vente cavje. They differ from the arteries in their larger capacity, their greater number, their thinner walls, their larger and frequent anastomoses, and the occasional presence of more or less perfect valves, which prevent backward cir- culation. The veins from the stomach, intestines, spleen, and pancreas differ from the others in that, after joining to form a single trunk, the portal vein, the latter breaks up in the substance of the liver into a capillary network, from which the blood is collected by the hepatic veins, and emptied into the inferior vena cava. The veins may be divided into two sets, the sujjerficial and the deep, between which are frequent communications. The superficial or subcutaneous veins lie between the layers of the superficial fascia, and do not usually accompany an artery. The deej) veins usually accompany the arteries, sometimes as a single trunk, as with the larger arteries (axillary, femoral, etc.), sometimes as a fre- quently anastomosing pair, the vena} comites, one on either side of the smaller arteries (radial, tibial, etc.). The venous sinuses of the cranium differ from the veins in distribution and in structure, being formed by a separation of the two layers of the dura, and lined by epithelium. In the following pages a detailed description is necessary only for those veins which do not accompany an artery. The systemic veins are naturally divided into three groups, according as they empty into the heart through the superior or the infei'ior vena cava, or the coronary sinus. THE VEINS OF THE HEART. The cardiac or coronary veins (Fig. 491), which return the blood from the substance of the heart, accompany the arteries, but have not an exactly similar course, as the arteries start in front, while the veins empty into the coronary sinus behind. The Coronary Sinus is situated in the dorsal part of the groove between the left auricle and ventricle. About an inch in length, it is covered by the muscular fibres of the auricles, and its termination in the right auricle, between the open- ing of the inferior vena cava and the auriculo-ventricular aj^erture, is guarded by the coronary or Thebesian valve. AVhere the cardiac veins (excepting the oblique vein) join the coronary sinus they are guarded by valves, which are wanting in the rest of their course. The oblique vein of INIarshall, which runs over the back part of the left auricle in the vestigial fold of the pericardium, enters the left extremity of the snuis without a valve. The oblique vein with the coronary sinus represents the left superior vena cava, or the left duct of Cuvier and part of the sinus venosus of the foetus. This vein is often represented in great part by a fibrous cord. The Great Cardiac Vein (anterior coronary vein) ascends from near the apex of the heart in the ventral interventricular groove to the auriculo-ventricular groove, in which it turns to the left and passes backward to terminate in the left end of the coronary sinus, which appears as the dilated continuation of this vein.456 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. It accompanies first the anterior and then the posterior brancli of tlie left coronary artery, and receives branches from either side of its course, one of which, ascend- ing along the left margin of the heart (left marginal vein) is of some size. The Middle Cardiac Vein (posterior interventricular vein) ascends from the apex of the heart in the dorsal interventricular groove to empty into the right extreni- INTERVENTRIO; 'RIGHT ARTERY—OESCEND- ULAR GROOVE VENTRICLE ING BRANCH Fig. 491.—Cardiac veins, dorsal view. (Testut.) itv of the great coronary sinus. It receives branches from the dorsal surface of both ventricles. The Posterior Cardiac Veins are three or four small vessels, which ascend on the dorsal surfoce of the left ventricle to open along the lower border of the coronary >inns. Tlic Right or Small Coronary Vein passes along the right auriciilo-ventricular groove to convey the blood from the hinder parts of the right auricle and ventricle into tlie right end of the coronary sinus. The following small vessels empty directly into the heart without the inter- vention of the coronary sinus. The Anterior Cardiac Veins are two or three small vessels, which collect the blood from the ventral surface of the right ventricle, and ascend to enter the lower part of the right auricle. One larger than the others {right marginal vein or vein of Galen) runs along near the antero- inferior border of the heart. The smallest cardiac veins {vence cordis mininuc, Vena^- Thebesii) are numerous small veins within the substance of the heart, which open into some of the small foramina Thebesii in the right auricle. Similar veins are said to open into the otlier heart-cavities. THE SUPERIOR VENA CAVA AND ITS TRIBUTARIES (Figs. 491, 493\ The supcfior ((Jcscending) vena cava is formed by the confluence of the right and left brachio-cephalic (innominate) veins behind the lower part of the junction of the first right costal cartilage with the sternum. From this point it passes nearly verticallv downward, with a slight convexity to the right, for about three inches, to empty into tlie right auricle on a level with the third costal cartilage. Its lower inch and a half are contained within the pericardium, the serous layer of which invests it except along its hind border. It receives the blood returned457 THE VEINS. from the head, neck, upper extremities and thoracic walls. It contains no valves. Relations.—On its right side are the right lung and pleura, with the phrenic nerve between. On its left side lies the braehio-cephalic artery above, and the ascending portion of the aortic arch below. In fre/nt it is overlapped by the right pleura and lung. The root of the right lung lies behind it. Its Icderal tributaries are the great azygos vein, which enters it just before it penetrates the pericardium, and small veins from the ^pericardium and mediastinum. The Braehio-cephalic Veins. The braehio-cephalic or innomincde reins return the blood from the head, neck, upper extremities, and a part of the thoracic walls. They are formed by the union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins, behind the sternal end of each clavicle, and unite below, opposite the lower border of the first right costal car- tilage, at its junction with the sternum, to fttrm the sujjerior vena cava. At the angle of junction of the subclavian and jugular veins there open into the venous circulation the thoracic duct on the left side and the right lymphatic duct on the right side. There are no valves in the braehio-cephalic veins. The Right Braclxio-ceplialic Vein, only about an inch in length, descends nearly vertically on the outer side of, and superficial to, the braehio-cephalic and the commencement of the subclavian arteries. The right lung and j^leura lie on its right side and in front, with the phrenic nerve between. The Left Braehio-cephalic Vein, two and a half to three inches long, passes from left to right with a sliuht downward inclination to join the right vein. In front of it lies the upper part of the manubrium sterui, with the lower ends of the sternal muscles, below it the arch of the aorta, and behind it the three branches of the arch, and the left phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. Latercd Tributaries.—Each brachio-ce])halic vein receives the vertebral, inferior thyroid, and internal mammary veins of its own side, and, in addition, the left vein receives the left superior intercostal vein, and small thymic, medi- astinal, and pericardial branches. Variations in the Superior Vena Cava and Brachio-cephedic Veins.—These are mostly due to a persistence of the left duct of Cuvier of the f etus, which may form a left superior vena cava. This descends from the commencement of the left braehio-cephalic vein, in front of the aortic arch and the root of the left lung, to the heart, Avhere it is continued in the usual position of the coronary sinus to open into the right auricle. The usual left braehio-cephalic vein may persist as a small communicating branch between the right and left superior venae cavse, or it may be altogether wanting. In a few cases besides those of transposition of the viscera the superior vena cava is found on the left side, the right brachio- cephalic vein taking a transverse cour.se similar to that usually taken by the left. Veins of the Head and Neck. I. Veins of the Surface of the Head asd Face (Fig. 492). A. ANTERIOR REGION. The superficial veins of the face and the fore part of the head and the deep veins of the face unite to form two trunks, the facial and the temporo-maxillary veins, while the occipital and posterior auricular veins collect the blood from the liind part of the scalp. Valves are generallv absent in the veins of the head and neck, except at the lower end of the internal and external jugular veins. The Facial Vein (anterior faded) collects the blood from the fore part of the face and scalp. It commences at the side of the nose, on a line with the lower margin of the orbit, as the direct continuation of the angular vein. It is less458 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. tortuous than the facial artery, behind whicli it passes downward and outward to and around the lower border of the jaw, in front of the masseter muscle. Below the lower border of the jaw it inclines backward beneath the platysma muscle, to empty into the internal jugular vein near the level of the hyoid bone. Below the digastric muscle it is joined by the anterior division of the temporo-maxillarvi vein, and the trunk thus formed is called the common facial vein. A commuui- FiG. 492.—Superficial veins of the cranium and face, right lateral view. (Testut.) eating brancli passes downward along the ventral margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle to join the anterior jugular vein. The Angular Vein, on each side, lies along the side of the root of the nose from a jjoint a little below the level of the eyebrow, where it is formed by the junction of the frontal and supra-orbital veins, to the lower margin of the orbit, where it becomes the facial rein. It appears as the continuation of the frontal vein, lies internal to the lachrymal sac, receives branches from the nose and upper eyelid, and communicates with the superior ophthalmic vein.THE VEINS. 459 The Transverse Nasal Vein arches across the bridge of the nose, and unites the two angular veins, or the h^wer ends of the frontal veins. The Frontal Vein is formed by branches from the forehead and the forepart of the scalp, which communicate with the anterior division of the temporal vein. These tributaries pass downward and inward to form a trunk which, connected with its fellow by cross-branches, descends nearly vertically on the side of the median line to a point a little below the inner end of the eyebrow, where it is joined by the supra-orbital vein and becomes the angular vein. The right and left frontal veins sometimes unite into a single median trunk, Avhich bifurcates at the root of the nose into the two angular veins. The Supra-orbital Vein is a smaller vessel which collects the blood from the lower and lateral part of the forehead, upper eyelids, etc., and passes obliquely downward and inward to join with the frontal vein in forming the angular. It communicates laterally with the temporal, and dorsally with the ophthalmic vein and the frontal vein of the diploe. The facial vein receives lateral tributaries, corresponding to the branches of the artery (/. e., inferior palatine, submaxillary, submental, inferior laljial, infe- rior and superior coronary, and lateral nasal) and in addition the following: The inferior palpebral veins, two or three in number, descend from tlie lower eyelid, where a communication with the infra-orbital vein is established. The anterior internal maxillary vein or deep facial vein passes downward and forward from the pterygoid plexus. It crosses the zygomatic sui'face of the max- illa, and opens into the facial vein beneath the zygomaticus major muscle. Small buccal, masseteric, and parotid veins are received from the buccinator and masseter muscles and the glandula socia parotidis, respectively. Sometimes the lingual vein joins the facial. (See lingual vein.) The free communications between the facial vein and its tributaries and the ophthalmic vein, none of which contain valves, account for the danger of septic thrombi extending backward through the ophthalmic vein to the cranial sinuses in case of carbuncle or anthrax of the face. B. LATERAL, REGION. The Temporo-maxillary Vein {posterior facial) is formed by the union of the temporal and maxillary veins in the substance of the parotid gland behind the neck of the mandible. It descends in the substance of the parotid gland super- ficial to the external carotid artery to about the angle of the jaw, where it divides into two parts. The anterir/r division passes downward and forward to join the facial vein, forming the common facial vein, while the posterior division is joined by the posterior auricular vein to form the external jugular vein. The posterior auricular vein may join the tem])oro-raaxillary vein before bifurcation of the latter, in which case the anterior division is j^roperly a branch of the external jugular vein. The Superficial Temporal Vein collects the blood from the parietal region of the scalp, where communicating branches connect it with the supra-orbital and frontal veins in front, the veins of the opposite side above, and the posterior auricular and occipital veins behind. Its branches unite into two trunks which, corresponding to the divisions of the artery, converge and unite in front of the ear into a single trunk. The Middle Temporal Vein receives the blood from the temporal muscle, and is joined by the orbital branch, wliich, corresponding to the artery of the same name, communicates with the ophthalmic vein. Piercing the fascia near the zygoma it joins the superficial temporal to form the common temporcd vein. The middle ternporcd vein communicates with the pterygoid plexus through the deep temporal veins, a branch of that plexus corresponding to the arteries of the same name. The Common Temporal Vein crosses the base of the zygoma just in front of the ear, and thence descends in the parotid gland external to the temporal artery. It460 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. joins the internal maxillary vein o])posite the neck of the jaw to form the temporo-maxillary vein. The temporal vein also receives antei-ior auricular reins from the external ear, transverse facial veins from the masseter muscie, parotid veins from the gland, and branches from the plexus around the temporo-maxillary articulation, which receives a branch from the tymjianum, through the fissure of Glaser. The Internal Maxillary Vein is a short vessel, which j^asses backward from the pterygoid plexus, accompanying the cori'esponding artery as a single or a double trunk to join with the common temporal vein in forming the temporo-maxillary vein. The Pterygoid Plexus surrounds the pterygoid muscles and corresponds to the second and third portions of the internal maxillary artery, by the comjianion veins of whose branches it is made up. It communicates in front with the facial vein, through the deep facial vein, above with the inferior ophthalmic vein and the cavernous sinus, and behind with the plexus from which the middle temporal vein arises. The Posterior Auricular Vein descends from a plexus on the lateral aspect of the scalp, which communicates with the temporal and occipital veins and with the vein of the opposite side. It is large in comparison with its companion ai*tery, which it leaves below the ear, and inclines forward toward the angle of the jaw to join the posterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein, and form the external jugular vein. C. POSTERIOR REGION. The Occipital Veins collect the blood from the hind part of the venous plexus of the scalp, and descend, as one or two trunks, with the occipital artery deeply into the neck, where they are continuous with the deep cervical vein. An emis- sary vein, passing through the mastoid foramen, connects the lateral sinus with this vein, or, in some cases, with the posterior auricular vein. 2. Veins of the Neck (Fig. 493). The External Jugular Vein, formed by the union of the posterior auricular vein and the posterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein, descends nearly vertically from its commencement near the angle of the jaw to terminate opposite the middle of the clavicle in the subclavian vein. It lies beneath the platysma, and crossing the sterno-mastoid muscle oblicpiely it follows the hind border of the latter in its lower half. Near the clavicle it pierces and is closely connected with the deep cervical fascia, whicli holds it open. It has a pair of imperfect valves at its entrance into the subclavian vein, and another an inch or two above the clavicle, and the part between them is called the sinus, being often dilated. Its lateral frihufaries are the following : The posterior external jugular vein. This descends behind the sterno-mastoid muscle, from the skin and superficial muscles of the upper and back part of the neck and the lower occipital region, to open below the middle of the external jugular vein. It may comniunicate with the occipital vein. The transverse cervical and suprascapular veins accnmpanv their corresponding arteries, and open into the external jugular vein a little above its termination. They sometimes present a plexiform arrangement in the subclavian triangle. These veins have valves near their termination and may sometimes open into the subclavian vein. The anterior jugular vein takes origin below the chin from small branches which communicate with the lower radicles of the facial vein. It descends at a variable distance from the median line to near the inner end of the clavicle, where it perforates the deep fascia and turns outward beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle to open into the lower end of the external jugular vein, or sometimes into461 THE VEINS. the subclavian vein. It receives a branch from the facial vein which descends along the ventral border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. A ti'ansverse l)ranch connects the'lower ends of the veins of the two sides, and others may exist higher up. Its position behind the origin of the sterno-mastoid should be remembered in tenotomy of that muscle. It varies in size inversely with that of the external jugular vein. The Internal Jugular Vein receives the blood from the cranial cavity. It begins at the eidarged .s/»h.s' or l)ulb of the sigmoid sinus, which is lodged in the large dorsal compartment of the jugular foramen. After a neai'ly straight INTERNAL MAM MARV Fig. 493.—Veins of the neck and upper part of thorax, front view. (Testut.) course it ends behind the sternal end of the clavicle, where it joins the subclavian vein to form the innominate vein. At the base of the skull it is behind and then becomes external to the internal carotid artery. Lower down it lies external to and in the same sheath with the common carotid artery, overlapping it below, especially on the left side. A pair of imperfect valves is found about an inch above its termination. It has the following lateral tributaries. The inferior petrosal sinus o])ens into the bulb or into the commencement of the internal jugular vein. The pharyngeal plexus, on the outer surface of the pharynx, receives the blood from the neighboring parts, and opens into the jugular vein directly or through the common facial vein. It communicates above with the pterygoid plexus and receives branches from the soft palate and Eustachian tube. The lingual vein (Fig. 494). Two small vente comites usually accompany the lingual artery, but most of the blood is returned from the tongue by the ranhieTHE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 462 vein, which starts near tlie tip of the tongue, and passes backward beneath tlie mucous membrane of its under surface. As it continues backward it is separated from the lingual artery by the hyoglossus muscle, on the outer surface of which it lies below the hypoglossal nerve. It is joined by the lingual vense comites and by branches corresponding to the branches of the artery, and empties into the Fig. 4'Ji.—Arteries and veins of the tongue, viewed from the right side. (Testut.) internal jugular or the facial vein. Its tributaries not infrequently open separately into the internal jugular or into the facial vein. The common facial vein has been described above. The superior thyroid vein corresponds to the artery of the same name, and, after crossiug the upper end of the common carotid artery, it empties into the internal jugular or the common facial vein. The three thyroid veins on each side communicate freely with each otiier and with those of the opposite side. The middle thyroid vein emerges from the lower part of the lateral lobe of the thyroid l)ody, and, after crossing the common carotid artery, empties into the internal jugular vein, a little below the level of the cricoid cartilage. The Inferior Thyroid Veins descend from the lower part of the thyroid body, one on either side of the trachea. Frequent anastomoses form a kind of plexus, from which the left vein descends to empty into the left brachio-cejihalic vein, the right vein into the angle of union of the two brachio-cephalic veins, or into the lower end of the riglit brachio-cephalic vein, or it may join the left vein. They lie under cover of the sterno-hyoid muscles, and receive inferior laryngeal, tracheal, and oesophageal veins. They are guarded by valves at tlieir termination. They may seriously embarrass the sui'geon in jierforming low tracheotomy. The Vertebral Vein corresponds to the cervical portion only of the vertebral artery. Commencing in the suboccipital triangle in a plexus of small veins, it accompanies the vertebral artery in a plexiform manner through the foramina of the transverse processes of the upper six cervical vertebrte. Thence as a single vessel it descends across the subclavian artery to open into the upper end of the brachio-cephalic vein, dorsally. Trihutaries.—At its upper end it communicates with the occipital, deep cervical, and intraspinal veins. It receives branches from the dorsal spinal veins of the neck, the lateral spinal veins, and the plexus on the ventral surface of the bodies of the cervical vertebrte. Near its lower end it is joined by the deep cervical and anterior vertebral veins, and usually by the first intercostal vein, which accompanies the superior intercostal artery. The anterior vertebral vein descends from in front of the cervical vertebrae,THE VEINS. 463 accompanying the ascending cervical artery, and receiving branches from the neigliboring muscles. The deep cervical vein {posterior vertebral) descends at the back of the neck, in company with the deep cervical artery, from the suboccipital plexus, through which it receives the occipital vein. Below the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra it turns forward to empty into the lower end of the vertebral vein. The Veixs of the Diploe (Fig. 495). These are contained in a plexus of bony channels in the cancellous tissue of the bones of the roof and sides of the skull. They are arranged in four groups, Fig. 495.—Veins of the diploe. The outer table of cranial boues is removed. (Testut.) w'hose trunks descend to communicate with the meningeal veins, the sinuses of the dura and the veins of the scalp. They are named frf)m their position. The frontal veins of the diploe open into the supra-orbital vein at the bottom of the supra-orbital notch or foramen. The anterior temporal veins open into the deep temporal veins through an opening in the great wing of the sphenoid. The posterior temporal veins join the lateral sinus through the mastoid foramen or an opening at the dorso-inferior angle of the parietal bone. The occipital veins open into the occipital vein externally, or into the lateral sinus internally. In foetal life the veins of each bone are distinct, but they anastomose freely after the bones come together. The Venous Sinuses of the Cranium (Figs. 496, 497). These are venous channels situated between the two layers of the dura, and lined by a continuation of the lining raemln'ane of tlie veins. They collect the l)lo()d from the brain, orbit, and eyel)all, and some of that from the meninges and diploe, and emjrty into the internal jugular vein. They communicate with the superficial veins by means of the emimirii veins, passing through certain foramina in the cranium. They may be divided into two groups, tlie one situated above and behind, the other at the base of the skull; the former including the superior and inferior longitudinal, the straight, the lateral, and the occipital sinuses, while the latter embraces the cavernous, the circular, the basilar, and the inferior and superior petrosal sinuses. The Superior Longitudinal Sinus extends in the median line along the attached464 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. margin of tlie falx cerebri, increasing constantly in size, from the foramen ctecnm in front to the internal occipital protuberance behind, where, turning sharply to one side, usually the right, it is continuous Avith the lateral sinus. Its triangular lumen is crossed by a number of fibrous bands (the cords of Willis), and pro- jecting into it at intervals are the Pacchionian bodies. It receives the superior cerebral veins, which enter it mostly from behind forward (/. c, against the blood- stream). It often communicates through the ])arietal foramen with the temporal A eins of the scalp, and regularly in early life through the foramen cajcum with the veins of the nose. On apj)roaching the internal ()cci])ital protuberance it inclines slightly to the side to which it bends, and presents a dilatation, the torcu- lar Herophlll ("the wine-press of Hcroj^hilus "), which is lodged in a depression on the side of the internal occipital protuberance. The torcular usually receives the t)ccipital sinus, and gives a ci'oss-branch to the straight sinus, where the latter bends into the opposite lateral sinus. The Inferior Longitudinal Sinus is a small vessel of cylindrical form, which occupies the hind iialf or more of the lower border of the falx cerebri. It receives some branches fnjm the falx and the median surface of the brain, and terminates in the straight sinus. The Straight Sinus, triangular on section, extends downward and backward along the line of junction of the falx cerebri and the tentorium cerebelli, to the internal occipital protuberance, where it l)ends sharply to the side, usually to the ^^INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN Fig. 496.—Sinuses of the dura, left lateral view. (Testut.) left, and is continued into the latei'al sinus, being connected by a cross-branch with the torcular. It is formed in front, at the margin of tlie tentorium, by the union of the inferior longitudinal sinus with the great vein of Galen from the interior of the brain. The Lateral Sinuses commence at the internal oceijjital jn'otuberance, and end at the jugular foramina in tlie bulbs or sinuses which are continuous with the internal465 THE VEINS. jugular veins. Each sinus passes at first nearly horizontally outward, with a slight convexity upward, in the groove on the occij^ital bone and the dorso-infe- rior angle of the parietal bone, along the attachment of the tentorium cerebelli. Thence it curves dosvnward and inward in the groove on the inner surface of the mastoid, leaving the tentorium after receiving the superior petrosal sinus (and, when present, the petro-squamous sinus). Finally it curves forward onto the jugular process of the occipital bone to the jugular foramen. That part of the sinus on the mastoid bone and the jugular process of the occipital is called the sigmoid sinus, fi'ora its S-shaped course. This pai't is semicylindrical in shape, communicates with the occipital sinus through the marginal sinus, and with the occipital and vertebral veins through the mastoid and posterior condylar foramina. The latei'al sinus receives veins from the temporal lobe of the brain, from the upper and lower surfaces of the cerebellum, and from the medulla, pons, and diploe. The right lateral sinus is considerably larger than the left, except in cases where the superior longitudinal sinus is continued into the left sinus. The jwsition of the lateral sinus may be represented on the exterior of the skull by a line curved slightly upward fr(jm the external occipital protuberance to OINAL SINUS Fig. 497.—Sinuses of the dura at the base of the cranium. (Testut.) the base of the mastoid process, and thence its sigmoid portion bends downward and inward toward the tip of the process, making a forward bend or knee which extends to within half an inch or less of the upper part of the bony external auditory meatus. The Occipital Sinus ascends mesially, along the line of attachment of the falx cerebelli to the occij)ital bone, from the foramen magnum in front to the torcular behind. Its tributaries pass around one or both sides of the foramen magnum, as marginal sinuses, one or both of which communicate with the lower end of the 30466 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. lateral sinuses. It communicates with the posterior spinal veins, and receives inferior cerebellar veins. The Cavernous Sinuses (Fig. 498) lie between the layers of the dura, one on each side of the body of the sphenoid bone. They extend from the splienoidal fissure in front, where they receive and ai'e practically continuous with the oph- tiialmic veins, to the apex of the petrous bone behind, where they end in the petrosal sinuses. The two are connected across the middle line in front, behind, and often below the pituitary body, by vessels which are called anterior, posterior, and inferior intcrcavernom sinuses, and which together form the circular or coronary sinus. Each cavernous sinus is bridged across by tibrous bands, so that its cavity resembles cavernous tissue, from which it derives its name. In the outer wall are the third, fourth, and ophthalmic divisions of the fifth nerve, which lie in the order named from above downward and from within outward. The internal carotid artery and the sixth nerve also pass ahmg in the sinus separated from its lumen INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY AND SIXTH NERVE PITUITARY BODY SPHENOIDAL SINUS BODY OF SPHENOID the middle of the sella turcica. (W. by its endothelial lining only. This sinus receives some inferior cerebral veins, and communicates with the pterygoid plexus through the ophthalmic vein, and througli a slender vein passing through the foramen of Vesalius and another through the f )ramen ovale. It also communicates with the pharyngeal jjlexus and the internal jugular vein, by brandies ])assiiig through the foramen lacerum medium and the carotid foramen respectively. This sinus also receives in front the small spheno-parietal sinus, which, communicating with the middle menin- geal veins, near the apex of the small wing of the sphenoid, runs inward on the under surface of tliis l)ony jirocess. The Superior Petrosal Sinus extends backward as a narrow channel in the attached margin of the tentorium cerebelli, along the groove in the upper border of the petrous bone, from the cavernous sinus in front to the lateral sinus behind. It receives veins from the temporal lobe of the brain, the cerebellum, and the tympanum. The Inferior Petrosal Sinus, larger but shorter than the superior, runs back- ward and downward in a groove along the petro-occipital suture, from the hind end of the cavernous sinus in front to the upper end of the internal jugular vein, which it reaches after passing through the forward compartment of the jugular foramen. It receives inferior cerebellar veins, and veins from the medulla, pons, and internal ear. The Transverse or Basilar Sinus (basilar plexus). Connecting the two inferior jietrosal minuses across the median line is a ])lexus of veins, lying in the dura on the l^asilar process of the occipital bone. It communicates below with the ante- rior spinal veins. The petro-squamous sinus is sometimes found in the adult in a groove along the petro-squamous suture, opening behind into the lateral sinus, where the latter bends downward onto the mastoid lione. It represents the remains of an early foetal condition, in which the lateral sinuses are continued forward in this course to open into the primitive (afterwards the external) jugular vein, before the development of the internal jugular vein.THE VEIXS. 467 The Ophthalmic Veins. Commencing near the inner cantlius of the e}'elid, where it communicates freely with the angular, frontal, and supra-orbital veins, the principal or Supe- rior Ophthalmic Vein extends backward and inward to the inner end of the sphe- noidal fissure, through which it passes to end in the fore part of the cavernous sinus. In the orbit it crosses above the optic nerve, a little in front of the artery, and receives branches similar to those of the artery. The Inferior OpJithribnic Vein.—Formed hy the union of some inferior mus- cular branches with the lower posterior ciliary branches, this smaller ophthalmic vein runs backward in the floor of the orbit, beneath the optic nerve. It ter- minates by joining the superior ophthalmic vein to form the short common ophthal- mic trunk, or by opening separately into the cavernous sinus. A branch, and occasionally the entire vein, descends through the spheno-maxillary fissure to join the pterygoid plexus. As the ophthalmic veins have no valves, the blood, under certain conditions, may flow from behind forward into the angular vein or its brandies, and thus obviate pressure in the veins of the retina, wlien the cavernous sinus is obstructed. The Emissary Veins. These pass through foramina in the skull to connect the cranial sinuses with the surface veins of the scalp. The blood-current may be in one or the other direction under varying conditions of intracranial jn-essure. They may serve as the channels along which infection is carried from the surface to the interior of the cranium. The following communications occur through emissary veins. (^4) The longitudinal sinus communicates with the temporal veins through one or both parietal foramina when present, and, in the child, with the veins of the nose through the foramen csecum. (B) The lateral sinus is connected with the occipital (or posterior auricular) vein through the mastoid foramen (the largest and most constant emissary), and sometimes with the vertebral vein through the posterior condylar foramen. (C) The cavernous sinus communicates with the pterygoid plexus through the foramen of Vesalius and the foramen ovale, as well as through the inferior oplitlialmic vein ; with the pharyngeal plexus tlirough the foramen lacerum medium ; and with the internal jugular vein by the carotid plexus through the carotid canal. (I)) The occipital sinus communicates with the vertebral and extraspinal veins through the anterior condylar foramen. {E) A small vein occasionally passes to the torcular through a foramen in the occipital bone, near the external occijiital protuberance. The Veins of the Brain. These open into the cranial sinuses and have several peculiarities. The Veins of the Ceeebrum. These have very thin walls from the absence of muscular tissue, and contain no valves. They are more numerous than the arteries, and, for the most part, do not accompany them. Those veins opening into the superior longitudinal sinus enter it against its current, after ascending with the arteries, instead of descending with the ascending arteries. The cerebral veins may be divided, like the arteries, into a superficial set on the surface, which anastomose freely together, and a deep set, which emerge from the ventricles by the transverse fissure. The Superficial Veins run in the fissures, and occasionally across the gyri, and are subdivided into superior and inferior groups. The Superior Cerebral Veins, eight to twelve in number on each side, pass inward and slightly forward from the upper surface of the cerebrum. AfterTHE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. 468 joining others from tlie mesial surface, they open into the longitudinal sinus, running for some distance in its walls. The inferior cerebral veins collect the blood from the outer and under surfaces of the cerebrum, and open into the cavernous, superior petrosal, or lateral sinuses, according to their position. The lliddlc Cerebral Vein is one of large size, which overlies the fissure of Sylvius, receiving Ijranches from adjoining lobes, and ends in the cavernous sinus. The Great Anastomotic Vein of Trolard, by anastomosing on the parietal lobe with a branch of the middle cerebral vein and with one of the superior veins, establishes a communication between the cavernous and the supericn- longitudinal sinuses. Similarly the Posterior Anastomotic Vein of Lubbe connects the cavernous and lateral sinuses, by anastomosing with the middle cerebral vein on the temporal lobe. The Deep Cerebral Veins join to form two trunks, the Veins of Galen, which, beginning near the foramen of Monro by the union of the choroid vein and the vein of the corpus striatum on each side, pass back, parallel with and near each other, between the layers of the velum interpositum. Beneath the splenium of the corpus callosum they pass out of the brain at the great transverse fissure, after joining to form a single trunk (vena magna Galeni), which ascends to enter the straight sinus. The choroid vein runs forward and upward along the outer border of the choroid plexus (the blood of which it returns) to its fore part where, near the foramen of Monro, it joins the vein of the corpus striatum. The latter runs for- ward in the groove between the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus, receiving branches from tliem and the neighboring parts. It joins the choroid vein as above described. Each vein of Galen, just before it joins its fellow, receives the basilar vein of each side which, formed by the union of the anterior cerebral vein, the deep Sylvian vein, and the inferior striate vein, passes backward and around the cms cerebri to its termination. The anterior cerebral vein runs from the genu of the corpus callosum, the deep Sylvian veins from the insula and adjacent parts (com- municating with the middle cerebral vein), and the inferior striate vein descends through the anterior perforated space from the corpus striatum. The Veins of the Cerebellum. These are divided into two sets, superior and inferior, according to tlieir posi- tion. Of the superior cerebellar veins some run inward and ujjward to the straight sinus and the great vein of Galen, others run outward to the superior petrosal and lateral sinuses. The in ferior cerebellar veins are larger than the superior, and some of them together with the veins of the oblongata and pons, run outward and forward to the inferior petrosal and lateral sinuses, while others pass backward to the occipital sinus. THE VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Two sets of veins are distinguished in the extremities, superficial and deep, the latter of wliieh accompany the arteries, while the superficial set are larger, return more of the blood, and lie between the layers of the superficial fascia. The two sets communicate at frequent intervals. Valves are numerous in both sets, but more so in the deep veins, and are regularly found where a branch joins a trunk, or the deep veins join tlie superficial. The Superficial Veins of the Upper Extremity (Figs. 499, 500). These commence in two plexuses, viz., a large plexus on the dorsum of the hand, which receives the digital veins from the fingers, and is sometimes sub- divided into two parts, a radial and an ulnar ; and a smaller pferus on the front469 THE VEINS. branches from tlie palm and the tliumb. communicate freelv with one another. The CEPHALIC- MEDIAN CEPHALIC MEDIAN BASILIC ULNAR BRANCH FROM DEEP SET ANTERIOR ULNAR of the iL-rist, which receives a few superficial veins of the forearm The Eadial Vein, commenc- ino-in the radial side of the dorsal plexus runs up the radial side of the forearm to a little above the bend of the elbow, where, on the outer side of the biceps- tendon, it joins the median cephalic vein to form the ce- jjhalic vein. On the hand it communicates with the deep veins of the palmar arch, and along its course it receives many superficial tributaries. The Posterior Ulnar Vein begins in the ulnar side of the dorsal plexus, and, after com- municating with the deej) pal- mar veins, it extends upward along the dorsal aspect of the ulnar side of the forearm. Near tlie bend of the elbow it usually receives the anterior ulnar vein, and, just below the internal condyle of the humerus, the re- sulting common ulnar vein turns forward to join the median basilic to form the basilic vein. The Anterior Ulnar Vein is smaller than the foregoing, which it joins near the bend of the elbow, except rarely when it enters the median basilic vein separately. It ascends from the wrist along the ulnar side of the front of the forearm. The Median Vein ascends along the front of the forearm from the plexus on the front of the wrist to the bend of the elbow, where, after receiving the (Jeep median vein from the deep set of veins, it immediately bifurcates into the median basilic and the median cephalic veins. The Median Basilic Vein, the larger of the two divisions, is directed upward and inward to the groove internal to the biceps, where it forms the basilic vein by , joining the common ulnar trunk or one of the ulnar veins. It crosses the brachial artery, from which it is separated by the fascial tendon of insertion of the bicejis ; hence in venesection, in whicli this vein was the one commonly chosen, on account of its size, constancy, and accessibility, the artery was sometimes punctured, lead- ing to arterio-venous aneurism, etc. Branches of the internal cutaneous nerve cross in front of and behind it. The Median Cephalic Vein runs upward and outward in the groove between the biceps and brachio-radialis muscles to form the cephalic vein, by uniting with the radial vein just above the bend of the elbow. The musculo-cutaneous nerve passes beneath it. The Basilic Vein ascends in the groove, on the inner side of the biceps, a little internal to the course of the brachial artery. Perforating the deep fascia below the middle of the arm, it ends by joining the inner vena comes of the brachial artery to form the axillary vein. Fig. 499.—Superficial veins of front of forearm and lower part of arm. (Testut.)470 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTE3L Tlie Cephalic Vein, the smaller of the veins of the arm, ascends in the groove external to the biceps and then in the interval between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles to a little below the clavicle, where it perforates the costo-coracoid CEPHALIC VEIN ENTERING AXILLARY AXILLARY CEPHALIC.. VEIN BASILIC VEIN PERFORATING DEEP FASCIA ASILIC VEIN Fig. 500.—Superficial veins of front of arm and shoulder. (Testut.) membrane, and ends in the axillary vein, after crossing the first portion of the axillary artery. Sometimes a branch, and rarely the entire vein, crosses over the clavicle to end in the external jugular vein. The Deep Veins of the Upper Extremity. The arteries below the axillary are accompanied by two veme comifes ("com- panion veins ") with frequent cross-branclies. They communicate with the super- ficial veins, especially in the hand and at the elbow. Xear the lower border of the teres major or the subscapularis muscle, the inner brachial vena comes joins the basilic vein to form the single Axillary Vein. This accompanies and has the same relations as the axillary artery, lying to its inner side, and ends at the outer liorder of the first rib in the subclavian vein. It collects all the blood of the up[)er extremity, receiving the cephalic vein and the radicles which correspond to the branches of the axillary artery. The Subclavian Vein continues the axillary vein from the outer border of the first rib to the sterno-clavicular articulation, where it ends in the brachio-cephalic vein. It lies in front of and at a somewhat lower level than the subclavian artery, from wliich it is separated by the scalenus anterior muscle and the phrenic nerve. It lies in the groove on the first rib in front of that of the artery. Close to the outer border of the sterno-niastoid muscle the external jugular vein empties into it, and just external to this point the vein is provided with a pair of valves. The Veins of the Thoracic Wall. The Internal Mammary Veins accompany each internal mammary artery and its branches in anastomosing pairs, whicli unite into a single trunk a sliort distance below their termination in the lower jiart of the brachio-cephalic vein.471 THE VEINS. PPER END OF ORACIC DUCT The Superior Intercostal Veins.—The veins from the two to four intercostal spaces below the first join together to foi*m a short trunk, which on the right side descends to empty into tlie upper part of the great azygos vein, and on the /eft side ascends across the arch of the aorta to empty into the left brachio-ce])halic vein. The left superior intercostal vein communicates interiorly with the left upper azygos vein, and sometimes receives the left ])ronchial vein. It is often connected with the oblique vein of Marshall by a fibrous cord, traceable through the vestigial fold of the pericardium and representing the left duct of Cuvier. The veins of the upper intercostal space, or sometimes the upper two intercostal spaces, ascend to join the vertebral or brachio-cephalic vein of the corresponding side. The Azygos Veins (Fig. 501). The Azygos Veins, developed from the primitive cardinal veins, form an anastomosis between the inferior and superior venas cavse, which is of inip(jrtance in obstruction of the inferior vena cava. They receive the venous blood of most of the dorsal and late- ral thoracic walls. The azygos veins are three in number, and lie on the sides of the front of the vertebral bodies. The Right or Great Azygos Vein (^vena azygos major) commences in the abdomen as an upward continuation of the ascend- ing lumbar vein, which communicates Avith the common iliac vein, and is often connected with the inferior vena cava and the renal vein. It ascends through the aortic opening of the diaphragm on the right of the aorta and the thoracic duct, in Avhich position it continues up- w^ard in the posterior mediastinum in front of the right intercostal ar- teries, grooving the dorsal border of the right pleura. Opposite the lower end of the fourth thoracic vertebra it bends forward over the root of the right lung, to empty into the superior vena cava at a point just above where the latter pierces the peri- cardium. Tributaries.—It re- cieves (1) the right sub- costal vein ; (2) the seven or eight lower right intercostal veins ; (3) the right superior intercostal vein ; (4) the right broncliial veins ; (5, 6) the left lower and the left upper azygos veins, and some small (7) cesophageal ; (8) pericardial ; and (9) mediastinal veins. ASCENOIN Fig. 501.—Azygii^ aii.l iiiturcostal veins. (Testut.)472 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTE3I. The Left Lower or Small Azygos Vein {reiui hemiazygos, vena azj/gos minor) commences in the abdomen on tlie left side, in a manner similar to the great azygos on the right side, the branch from tlie renal vein being more constant, and sometimes the principal source. It ascends through the left cms of the dia- ])hragm, and in the posterior mediastinum it lies in front of the left intercostal arteries as far as the eighth thoracic vertebra, where it crosses beneath the thoracic aorta and thoracic duct to join the great azygos vein. Trihntariex.—It receives (1) the left subcostal vein below the diaphragm ; and above it (2) the lower four left intercostal veins ; (3) the left upper azygos (sometimes) ; and some small (4) oesophageal; and (5) mediastinal veins. The Left Upper Azygos Vein (vena hemiazygos accessoria) varies in size with that of tlie left superior intercostal and the left lower azygos veins, between wliicli it is ])laced, receiving two or three intercostal veins. It connects above with tlie superior intercostal vein, and opens below into the left lower azygos vein, or, crossing the sixth or seventh thoracic vertebra, ends in the great azygos vein. It often receives the left bronchial vein. It is quite variable and often absent, when its radicles, the fifth, sixth, and seventh intercostal veins, open directly into the great azygos vein. The Intercostal Veins accomjiany the arteries as a single trunk, lying above til em. They receive large dorsal branches from the muscles of the back, the dorsal spinal plexus, and the spinal canal. They are eleven in number, one for each intercostal space, the lowest thoracic vein being called the subcostal rein, from its position. They terminate variously in different subjects and on the two sides. (See azygos, superior intercostal, and vertebral veins.) The Bronchial Veins accompany the bronchial arteries, only part of whose blood they return, that distributed to the smaller bronchi entering the pulmonary veins. They pass out at the back of the root of the lung, and enter the upper end of the vena azygos major on the right side, and the left upper azygos or the left superior intercostal vein on the left side. Veins of the Spine (Figs. 502, 503). These form complicated plexuses, situated without and within the spinal canal and on the spinal cord, which communicate with one another and with the veins of the neck and trunk. They contain no valves and may be described in groups as follows : I. Extra-spinal Veins.—The Dorsal Spined Veins form a plexus over the lamiufe and adjacent processes of the vertebrte, where they receive tributaries from the skin and muscles of the back, the larger of which run forward along the interspinous ligaments. They communicate with the posterior longitudinal spinal veins by branches perforating the ligamenta subflava, and oj^en laterally into the vertebral or the dorsal bi'anches of the intercostal and lumbar veins, according to the region, by branches passing forward between the transverse processes. II. The Veins of the Vertebral Bodies (vencc basis verfebranim) occupy hori- zontal bony channels in the vertebral bodies and communicate with the veins in front of and at the sides of them. They open behind, through the large single or double foramen on the dorsal surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, into the transverse connecting branches of the anterior longitudinal spinal veins. III. Intra-spinal Veins.—(A) The 3Ieningo-rachiclian Veins are those within the spinal canal between the dura and the walls of the canal. The Anterior Longitvdinal Spinal Veins, large and plexiform, extend the entire length of the spinal canal behind the bodies of the vertebrte, one on either side of the posterior common ligament. Opposite the bodies of the vertebrje they are dilated and communicate M ith each other by transverse ti'unks, placed between the posterior common ligament and the body of each vertebra, which receive the veins of the vertebral bodies. Opposite the intervertebral discs theyTHE VEIXS. 473 are consti'icted, and send lateral branches through the intervertebral foramina to join the vertebral, intercostal, lumbar, or sacral veins according to the region. They communicate with the basilar plexus above, and with the posterior spinal veins throughout the spinal canal. Together with the jjosterior spinal veins and the marginal part of the occipital sinus they form a venous ring around the foramen magnum. The Posterior Longitudinal Spinal Veins, smaller than the foregoing, are situated one on each side at the back of the spinal canal, and extend throughout Fig. 502.—Veins of the spine, seen in a transverse horizontal section of a thoracic vertebra. (Testut.) its entire length. They communicate with one another, by frequent transverse branches in front of the vertebral arches, with the dorsal spinal veins through the ligamenta subflava, with the anterior spinal veins by lateral branches, and above with the occipital sinus. Lateral branches also pass out through the interverte- bral foramina to join those from the anterior spinal veins. Fig. 503.—Veins of the spine, seen in a sagittal section of two thoracic vertebra. (Testut.) (B) The Veins of the Spinal Cord, of small size, run tortuously in the pia of the cord, and are disposed in longitudinal trunks over the median fissures and laterally, with plexiform communications between. Branches accompany the nerve-roots to the intervei'tebral foramina, where they join the lateral branches from the veins of the spinal canal. Above they join the veins of the pons and cerebellum. The principal blood-current througli tlie veins of the spine is probably in a horizontal direction in the venous rinirs, formed bv the communications between474 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. tlie anterior and posterior veins, which send lateral branches through the inter- vertebral foramina. THE INFERIOR VENA CAVA AND ITS TRIBUTARIES. The Vkins of the Abdomen (Fig. 504). The Inferior or Ascending Vena Cava returns to the heart the blood from tlie lower extremities, the pelvis, and the abdomen, except that returned by the azygos and superior epigastric veins. It is a large vessel, which is formed by the union of the two common iliac veins in front of the right upper segment of Mil. —liii'rricr vena cava and its tributaries. the fifth lumbar vertebra. Thence it runs upward to the right of the aorta, from which it is separated above by the right cms of tlie diaphragm and the lobus Spigelii of the liver as it inclines forward and lies in the groove or canal on the dorsal surface of the liver. On passing through the caval opening in the central tendon of the diaphragm, to the margins of which it is attached, it immediatelyTHE VEINS. 475 enters the pericardium, through which it passes for about half an inch, only partly invested by its serous layer, to open into the lower and back part of the right auricle, opposite the upper border of the ninth thoracic vertel^ra. In the abdomen the liver, pancreas, duodenum, mesentery, portal vein, and right spermatic (or ovarian) artery, lie in front of it ; the vertebne, right renal and lumbar arteries, and the right crus of the diaphragm, behind it. Tributaries.—The hepatic veim converge from the substance of the liver to the groove or canal occupied by the inferior vena cava, into which they empty in two or three trunks. The veins from the right and left lobes open so obliquely that the semilunar folds, presented at the lower border of their orifices, take the place of valves, which are otherwise wanting. These veins are of large size, and return the blood (jf the hepatic artery and the portal vein. The phrenic (or inferior phrenic) veins accompany the jjhrenic arteries. The right one opens directly into the vena cava just below the diaphragm, on the right side, while the left often joins the left suprarenal, or sometimes the left renal vein. The suprarenal veins.—One vein on each side returns all the blood sujDplied by the three suprarenal arteries. The right vein terminates in the vena cava, the left in the left renal or phrenic vein. The renal veins are large, short trunks, which run in front of the correspond- ing arteries from the hilum of the kidney to the vena cava, into which they empty nearly at right angles, the left a little above the right. The left renal vein is larger than the right, has to cross the aorta, which it does just below the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, after receiving the spermatic (or ovarian) vein, often the suprarenal vein, and sometimes the phrenic vein of the same side. Rudimentary valves are found, especially on the left side. The shortness of the right renal vein should be remembered when dealing with the pedicle in nephrec- tomy. The spjermatic veins (Fig. 505) return the blood from the testicle and epi- didymis, from which they emerge dorsally, and, ascending to and through the inguinal canal, form a thick plexus (parnpiniforrn (" tendril-shaped ") p/f.nfs) in front of the vas deferens and the spermatic artery. On entering the abdomen through the internal alxlominal ring the plexus merges into two or three veins, which accompany the spermatic artery beneath the peritoneum, on the psoas mus- cle and across the ureter. In their course they join to form a single trunk, which opens into the vena cava on the right side, and on the left side into the renal vein, which it meets at a right angle. Imperfect valves are found in the pam- piniform plexuses, but the valve described at the termination of the vein may be absent in the vein of the left side, which moreover is usually slightly longer than the right vein and passes beneath the sigmoid colon, where it may be subjected to pressure. The above diffei'ences combined arc held to account for the greater frequency of varicocele on the left side. A few small veins ascend from the testicle behind the spermatic artery and the vas deferens and join the epigastric veins above. They are commonly not ligated in the operation for varicocele. The ovarian veins are analogous to the spermatic veins and terminate in the same manner. The ovarian or pampiniform, plexus, in which they begin, lies near the ovary between the layers of the broad ligament, and communicates freely with the uterine plexus, as well as with the ovarian bulb, a plexus of fine veins at the hilum of the ovary. They follow the course of the ovarian arteries. The lumbar veins, usually four in number on each side, accompany the lumbar arteries. They are formed by the union of ventral branches from the alidominal walls, where they communicate with the epigastric and internal mammary veins, and dorsal branches, which receive tributaries from the muscles of the back and the veins of the spine. The lumbar veins pass forward uj)on the bodies of the vertebrfe beneath the psoas muscle, and on the left side beneath the aorta, to empty into the back of the vena cava. In front of the transverse processes and476 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SY8TE3L hcliind the psoas muscle the himbar veins of each side are connected by con- tinuous vertical branches, called tiie (ificending lumbar vein, which communicates below with the ilio-lumbar, common iliac, and lateral sacral veins, and is usually continued above as the azygos vein of the corresponding side. Fig. 505.—Spermatic veins. (Testut.. The Common Iliac Veins. The Common Iliac Veins, formed opposite the sacro-iliac articulations by the confluence of the internal and the external iliac veins, converge as they ascend, and unite opposite the right upper segment of the fifth lumbar vertebra to form the inferior vena cava. The right vein, shorter and more vertical than the left, lies l)ehind and internal to its artery below, but above crosses obliquely behind it to its outer or right side, where it is joined by the left vein. The latter lies internal to the left C(immon iliac artery and then crosses behind the upper end of the right artery to join the right vein. They contain no valves, except an occasional one in the left vein. Tributaries.—The ilio-lnmbar veins follow the ilio-lumbar arteries, and enter the common or internal iliac veins. They resemble the lumbar veins in their course, formation, and connections. The iniddle sncral veins, one on each side of the artery of the same name, ascend on the front of the .sacrum to open into the left common iliac vein, after uniting into a single trunk. Occasionally this trunk enters the angle of junction of the two common iliac veins. These veins anasto- mose with the lateral sacral and the hemorrhoidal veins.THE VEINS. 477 The External Iliac Vein (Fig. 506). This is the continuation of the femoral vein, and extends from the level of the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament to the sacro-iliac articulation, where it joins tlio internal iliac vein. "While it is internal to the artery on Ijoth sides below, on the Fig. 506.—ExternaT iliac vein of right side. (Testut.) right side above it inclines beliind it. It contains one or two valves, and just above the inguinal ligament it receives the deep epigastric and the deep circumflex ihac veins, which accompany the corresponding arteries. A pubic vein, cor- responding to the pubic branch of the obturator artery, ascends from the obturator vein to join the external iliac vein, and sometimes forms the main outlet of the obturator vein. The Portal System of Veins (Fig. 507). Tlie.se are distinguished from other veins by beginning and ending in capil- laries. The portal vein collects the blood from the chylopoietic viscera (the stomach, intestines, and pancreas), as Avell as from the spleen and the gall-bladder, and conveys it to the liver, to the capillaries of which it is distributed to be collected, together with the blood from the he])atic arterv, by the hepatic veins, and so carried to the vena cava. The veins of this system have no valves. The Portal Vein {vena portai) (Fig. 508) is formed by the union of the splenic and the superior mesenteric veins, behind the upper end of the head of the pancreas, in front of the vena cava, and opposite the right side of the body of the first lumbar vertebra. From this point it runs upward and somewhat to the right for about three inches, to near the right end of the transverse fissure of the liver. Here it is somewhat enlarged (sinus of the portal vein), and divides into right and left branches, which enter their respective lobes and divide intoTHE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 478 branches, in company with the hepatic artery and the hepatic duct. In its upward course it passes behind the first part of the duodenum, and tlien between the two layers of the right border of the small omentum, where it lies l^ehind and between the hepatic artery on the left, and the common bile-duct on tlie right, and in front of the foramen of AVinslow. These three structures, with the accompanying nerves and lymphatics, are enclosed by a connective-tissue sheath Fig. 507.—Portal system of veins. The liver is turned upward and backward, and the transverse colon and most of the small intestines are removed. (Testut.) called the capsule of Glisson. The left branch is longer and smaller than tlie right, and Avhere it crosses the umbilical fissure it is joined in front l)v the round ligament, the remains of the fatal umbilical vein, and behind by another fibrous cord, the remains of the ductus venosus. Trihutnries.—Besides the superior mesenteric and the splenic veins, which by their union form the portal vein, the latter receives the pyloric and coronary veins from the stomach, and sometimes the cystic vein, which usually runs into the right branch.THE VEINS. 479 The Superior 3Tesenferie Vent accompanies the corresponding artery, lying to the right and in front of it, and returns the bh>od from the parts supplied by it (the small intestine, csecum, ascending and transverse colon) by Ijranches cor- responding to those of the artery. It passes upward l:>et\veen the layers of the mesentery, and then in front of the third part of the duodenum and behind the pancreas, where, after receiving the right gastro-e^iiploi'c vein, it joins the splenic vein to form the portal vein. The Inferior Ilesenteric Vein returns the blood from the rest of the large intestine (rectum, sigmoid flexure, and descending colon). Commencing in the hemorrhoidal plexus of the lower end of the rectum, where it freely anastomoses SUPRARENAL CAPSULE VERTEERa i COMMON HEPATIC BILE DUCT ARTERY Fig. 508.—Transverse horizontal section througli the foramen of Winslow, showing the relations of the portal vein. (Testut) with branches of the internal iliac vein, it ])asses np and out of the pelvis to the left of the inferior mesenteric artery. Above the origin of the latter it ascends, behind the peritoneum on the left side of the aorta, to the deep surface of the pancreas, where, inclining to the right, it joins the splenic vein near its termination. The Splenic Vein is a vessel of large size, v^ hicli passes from left to right below its companion artery, behind the pancreas. It commences by the imion of several large branches from the hilum of the sjjleen, and ends, after crossing in front of the aorta, by joining the superior mesenteric vein, nearly at a right angle, to form the portal vein. It receives branches corresponding to those of the artery, and, in addition, the inferior mesenteric vein. The Pyloric Vein is a small vessel which runs along the small curvature of the stomach from left to right in company with the (superior) pyloric artery. It opens into the lower part of the vena port*. The Coronary or Gastric Te/;; is a larger vessel, which accompanies the artery of the same name along the small curvature of the stomach from right to left. Near the cardiac orifice of the stomach it receives oesophageal branches and turns to the right across the spine, to end in the portal vein a little above the foregoing. The Veins of the Pelvis. The Internal Iliac Veins are short trunks without valves, which lie behind and to the inner side of the internal iliac arteries. They extend from the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramina to the sacro-iliac articulations, Avhere they join the external iliac to form the common iliac veins. Each is formed by the union of veins corresponding to the branches of the internal iliac artery, excepting the ilio-lumbar vein, which opens into the common iliac vein, and the foetal umbilical veins, which connect with the left branch of the portal vein. The Tributaries correspond to the branches of the ai'tery, except that the pudic vein does not begin in the dorsal vein of the penis, but in the veins of the corpus cavernosum. The visceral veins are characterized by their large size, the number of their valves, and their frequent anastomo.ses, by which several connected plexuses are formed—i. e., prostatic, vesical, vaginal, uterine, and hemorrhoidal.480 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. The Lateral Sacral Veins.—These parietal tributaries also form a plexus, tlie mcral plexus, over the front of the sacrum, by anastomoses with one another and with the middle sacral veins. This plexus communicates with the veins of the spine through the anterior sacral foramina. The Dorsal Vein of the Penis (Fig. 509), beginning in a plexiform circle of veins around the corona glandis, passes backward in the median dorsal groove of the penis, between the two dorsal arteries. At the root of the penis it continues backward through the susjjensory ligament, and then throuo;h the triangular lig-ament, whereupon it divides into two lateral branches, which enter the prostatic plexus. It receives branches from the substance and surface of the penis. In front of the triangular ligament it communicates with the internal pudic veins. The dorsal vein may commence as two latei'al branches in front, which unite at a variable distance from the root of the penis. The Gluteal, Sciatic, Obturator, and Internal Pudic Veins, save for the exceptif)n above noted in the case of the internal jjudic vein, correspond with the arteries and arterial branches which they ac- company. The Prostatic Plexus surrounds tlie prostate, especially at its base, sides, and in front, and lies beneath the slieath derived from the recto- vesical fascia. Besides the veins of the prostate it receives the dorsal vein of the penis in front, and com- municates with the vesical and hemorrlioidal plexuses. It is frequently much enlarged and varicose in old men, and often contains ])hleboliths or vein stones. The ^^esical Plexus surrounds the bladder beneath its peritoneal coat. It is particulai'ly developed at the base and neck of the organ, where it communicates with the hemorrhoidal plexus, and with the prostatic plexus in the male, the vaginal jilexus in the female. Tlie prostatic and vesical plexuses open into the internal iliac veins by vessels passing from their lateral aspect. An abundant plexus of veins is often met with on the anterior surface of the bladder on open- ing that organ by the suprapubic incision. The Vaginal Plexus surrounds tlie lower part of the vagina, and communicates with the vesical and hemorrhoidal plexuses and with the veins of the uterus. The Uterine Plexus empties in part through the ovarian veins, and in part through the veins Avliich accompany the uterine arteries. It is much enlarged during pregnancy. The Hemorrhoidal Plexus lies beneath the mucous membi'ane of the lower part of the rectum. It communicates with the plexuses in front of it, and empties through the superior, middle and inferior hemorrhoidal veins, wliich accompany the arteries of the same name. As the superior hemorrhoidal vein is a tributary of the portal system through the inferior mesenteric vein, and the other hemorrhoidal veins enter the internal iliac vein, a free anastomosis is thus established between the two SUPERFICIAL DORSAL VEIN EXTERNAL PUDIC VEIN OBTURATOR VEIN Fig. 509.—Veins of the penis. (Testut.)THE VEIXS. 481 through this plexus. The veins of this plexus have no valves ; hence the fre- quency of hemorrhoids from obstruction of the portal circulation in the liver. VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. These, like the veins of the upper extremity, are divided into two sets, super- ficial and deep. Superficial Veins of the Lower Extremity (Figs. 510-512). These consist of two main trunks, internal and external, Avhich commence in an arched plexus over the instep and on the dorsum of the foot, called the dorsal plexus. The Dorsal Plexus receives the dorsal digital veins and branches from the small but numerous plexiform veins of the sole, which pass up behind the clefts of the toes and around the outer and inner boi'ders of the foot. The veins are provided with numerous valves. The Internal or Long Saphenous Vein commences at the inner part of the dorsal plexus, where it re- ceives a vein of large size from the inner side of the great toe, and ends in the femoral vein an inch and a half below the inguinal ligament, after perforating the fascia lata of the saphenous opening. In its course it ascends in front of the internal malleolus, along the inner side of the leg, with the internal saphenous nerve, then behind the internal condyle of the femur, and finally upward and somewhat out- ward on the inner and forepart of the thigh. It is joined by various superficial tributaries along its course, by communicating branches from the deep veins of the sole, leg, and thigh, and, just below its termination, by the superjicial circumflex iliac, super- fcicd epigastric, and external p>udic veins, Avhich ac- company the arteries of the same name, and also in many cases by a large anterior branch, which ascends over the front of the thigh. This vein contains from seven to twenty valves, more numerous in the thigh than in the leg. The External or Short Saphenous Vein, com- mencing at the outer part of the dorsal plexus, ascends behind the external malleolus and then on the outer and back part of the leg, with the external saphenous nerve, to the lower part of the popliteal space, where it perforates the deep fascia, and ends in the popliteal vein. Along its course it is joined by superficial branches from the foot, the heel, and the back of the leg, and communicates with the deep veins at the ankle and in the leg. Near its termination a com- municating branch usually runs upward and forward to the internal saphenous vein, and sometimes forms the main outlet of the external saphenous vein. This fig. sio.-superficiai veins of vein contains from nine to fourteen valves. t*St./'°''* °^ """^ 31THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. 482 Deep Veins of the Lower Extremity. Below the knee the deep veins accompany the respective arteries in pairs, as venfe coraites. The single Popliteal Vein is formed by the junction of the vente comites of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, near the lower border of the popliteus Fig. 511.—Superficial veins of the dorsum Fig. .512.—Superficial veins of the front of the right of the leg. (Testut.) thigh, (Testut.) muscle. This vein lies superficial to its artei'y throughout, internal to it below, and external to it above, after crossing it obliquely. It receives radicles correspond- ing to the branches of the artery, and in addition the external saphenous vein. Two or three valves are usually present. After passing with its artery through the opening in the adductor magnus, it is continued as the Femoral Vein up to the level of the inguinal ligament. Below, in Hunter's canal, the femoral vein lies behind and somewhat to the outer side of its artery, but, as it ascends, itTHE VEINS. 483 crosses obliquely behind the artery, so as to be internal to it in the upper part of Scar2)a's triangle. It is joined by tributaries corresponding to the branches of the artery, including the iDeep Femoral Vehi (which ascends in fi'ont of its artery), and also, near its upper end, by the internal saphenous vein. It contains three or four valves, one of which is just above the opening of the profunda vein, and another just below the inguinal ligament. At its upper end it is separated inter- nally from the crural canal by a thin septum of fascia, passing between the front and rear walls of the femoral sheath.THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. By F. H. GERRISH. THE lymphatic system begins in the microscopic crevices between the cells and fibres of almost all tissues. These diminutive spaces are called " juice channels" or "juice canals," because they are the receptacles of the fluids which exude from the adjacent blood-vessels and tissues. They communicate very freely among themselves, and also with the Ijeginnings of the capillary tubes, which are the radicles of the lymph-vessels, and into the latter they discharge their contents. THE LYMPH-VESSELS. Tlie ]dan upon which the lymphatics are constructed is almost identical with that of the venous system. The small vessels unite and form larger, these in turn act as the radicles of others of still greater size, and after this manner the Fig. .513.—Epithelium lining lymph- Fig. 514.—Lymph-vessel laid open vessel. (Testut.) lengUiwise, showing arrangement of valves. process continues until the largest tubes are reached. There is constant increase in size and diminution in number from the periphery to the centre of the system. But the lymphatics are much smaller than the corresponding veins. Upon the surface of the body frequent plexuses of minute vessels ai'e found, which present an intricate and very delicate reticular ajipearance. All lymph-vessels contain lymph, and those of the small intestine at certain 4S4485 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. ^vhiS'^areiThmlo^fiThVIhorl 'I ffi^f""'^ '"^^^'^'''^ ^^d area; those486 THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. UPPER END OF THORACIC DUCT times carry chyle also (see page 57). The chyle-bearing lymphatics do not differ structurally from t)ther vessels of the system' ; but they are oi'tcn called htdrals (literally "pertaining to milk") because, during the period of intestinal dio;estion, when they are tilled with chyle, which is white, they look as if distended with milk, whose Ijatin name is lac. The course of the fluid in the lymphatics is always from the periphery toward the centre, the materials being sucked up, as it were, in the distal parts of the body, and carried proximally. Consequently the lymphatic system is often spoken of as " the absorbent sys- tem." But this is an undesirable name, inas- much as the veins, also, dt) considerable absorption work. A close relationship has long been recognized between the lymphatics and the true serous mem- branes. These closed sacs are to be regarded as prodigiously expanded lymjih-spaces, and are sometimes and appropri- ately called lymph-cham- bers. The true stomata of these serous membranes are the mouths of h mph- atic vessels. The recog- nition of this continuity of lymphatic and serous surfaces is of great physio- logic and pathologic im- portance. The Structure of Lymph-vessels.—The lymphatics resemble the veins in their structure, as well as in their arrange- ment. The smallest have but a single coat, com- posed of epithelial cells w ith notched edges, which fit accurately -with those of the adjacent cells (Fig. 513). The larger vessels have three tunics : an inner one of epithelium (like that described al>ove) and a little yellow fibrous tissue ; a middle, made up of muscular and yellow fibrous tissues ; and an outer, consisting of white fibrous tissue, with which is mixed a small amount of yellow. All of the coats are so thin as to be transjiarent. At very short intervals are valves, formed by folds of the lining membrane (Fig. 514). The position of a valve is marked by a circular constriction, j^roximal to which is a pronounced bulge ; and in this way a peculiar beaded or moniliform (" necklace-like ") appear- ance is produced. The valves prevent backward flow of the lymph. The lymphatics are divided into two sets, the superficial and the deep, accord- ing to their situation. The superficial li/mph-ressels course in the subcutaneous areolar tissue. In the limbs they are more abundant upon the inner and flexor ASCENDING LU Fig. 51C.—The thoracic duct an<3 right lymphatic duct. (Testut.)L YMPH-yODES. 487 a.^peets than upon the outer and extensor. They are especially numerous at the junction of the skin with mucous membrane. The deep lymph-vessels accompany the blood-vessels. There is free communication between the vessels of the same set; but there is no connection between the superficial and deep, except as they empty into the same nodes. Ultimately the lymphatics end in veins; and thus the lymphatic system is seen to be an adjunct to the blood-vascular system. The lymph mingles with tlie venous blood, and the leucocytes, which Avere lymph-corpuscles a moment ago, are colorless blood-corpuscles now. There are two points at which the lymph is poured into the blood, one on each side, where the internal jugular and subclavian veins unite to form the brachio- cephalic (Fig. 516). On the right side the vessel, called the right lymphatic dud, is an inch or less in length, and receives the lymph from the right side of the head, neck, and chest, the right lung, the right heart, the right upper limb, and the upper surface of the liver. A double valve guards its proximal opening. On the left side the vessel, called the left lymphatic duct, or, more commonly, the thoracic duct, is a large trunk, which has its tributaries in all portions of the body not just enumerated. The parts drained by each are suggested with practical accuracy by a glance at Fig. 515. The thoracic duct begins in a pear-shaped dilatation, called the receptaculum chyli, situated in front of the second lumbar vertebra. It runs upward at the right of the aorta to the level of the fourth thoracic vertebra, where it passes behind that great vessel and the left subclavian artery, and then arches outward and downward to its termination. It is as large as a goose-quill, and from fifteen to eighteen inches long. It has numerous valves, a double one standing at its junction with the venous system. LYMPH-NODES AND OTHER LYMPHADENOID STRUCTURES. Besides the lymph-vessels, which have just l)een described, the lymphatic system comprises a large amount of a compound tissue, known as lymphadenoid tissue. The framework of this material is adenoid reticular tissue (see page 50), and in its meshes are irregular masses of leucocytes. This lymphadenoid tissue exists in several forms, which differ from each other mainly in the degree of their compactness, some being firm, well-defined, and encapsuled, others extremelv diffuse, and still others presenting various stages intermediate to these. Sometimes, as in the mucous membrane of the intestines, the peculiar material is infiltrated, has no clearly defined boundaries, and hence is called diffuse lymjjh- adenoid tissue. It is a mere network of adenoid reticular tissue enclosing colorless corpuscles. A step beyond this condition occur small masses in the submucous or subserous memi^rane, distinctly defined, and encircled by a series of lymph- vessels. A typical example of this class is seen in the so-called solitary glands of the intestine. "When a number of such bodies are grouped into a coherent mass, the resulting structure is known as an agminated gland. Somewhat more distinct aggregations of lymphadenoid tissue, encased in a well-marked capsule, are frequently found located in small depressions in mucous membrane, illustra- tions of which are seen in the tongue, the tonsils, and the pharynx. The most sharply defined collections of lymphadenoid tissue are the lymph- nodes—commonly, but less appropriately, called lymphatic glands. They are not, as are the varieties mentioned above, connected directly with a mucous sur- face ; they always are furnished with a distinct capsule, which maintains their characteristic form ; and they always occur in the course of lymph-vessels. LYMPH-NODES. A lymph-node (Fig. 517) is a small, roundish or ovoid body, situated in the course of a lymph-vessel. Upon its proximal aspect is usually a little depressionTHE LYMPHATIC SYSTE3I. 488 or notch, called the hilum, at which its arteries enter, and its veins and efferent vessels emerge. The capsule of the node is mainly composed of white tilu-ous tissue, but has a slight admixture of smooth muscular tissue. From its inner surface trabeculce ("little beams") project toward the centre of the node, these being broad and shelf-like at the periphery, which is called the cortex ("bark"), but narrow and like slender rafters in the central portion, the medulla (" pith"). In no part are the spaces which these enclose completely circumscribed, and thus, as in areolar tissue, there is free intercommunication be- tween them. The irregular spaces are occupied by a rather solid mass of which, however, does not quite fill tliem, as it never touches the capsule and trabecuke, but leaves a narrow interval between itself and them. This o])en interval, which apjiears in a section of the node like a channel, is the lymjjh simis, and is crossed by a network of delicate adenoid reticular tissue, which is continuous on the one hand with the trabcculse or capsule, and on the other with a still finer ]ilexus of the same character, Avhich per- vades the pulp and forms the framework upon M hich the essential constituents of the pulp are supported. The pulp or proper substance of the node is a mass of leucocytes, held together by the fine reticulum just mentioned. The cells at the periphery of the collection are in a condition of multiplication by karyokinesis, and it is believed that the newlv formed cells are continually liberated into the lym])h sinus. The lymphadenoid tissue is well supplied with blood- vessels. The lymph simis is a complicated series of freely com- municating passages into which a number of lymph- vessels pour their contents, and from which a smaller number of lymph-vessels receive lymph. The inner coat of the entering (aferenf) and emerging {efferent) vessels is continuous with the epithelial lining of the lym])h sinus and the epithelial covering of the trabcculse which traverse it. Thus there is no breach in the continuity of the surface over which the lymph flows, whether it is in the vessels or in the channels of the nodes. The nodes, with the exception of the superficial inguinal, are situated beneath the deep fascia, though not always under its immediate covering. All told there may be nearly 700 nodes, of which the greatest part are in the chest- and bellv-cavities. The face and neck have a considerable number, the limbs a few, and the brain-case none. In size they vary from that of a large bean to such dimiuutiveness that they escape gross observation, unless they have become enlarged by disease. In the groin they can easily be felt, but not in the axilla. Those of very small size are called nodules. As age creeps on, the lym])hatic tissues undergo senile atrophy. The thymus gland, whose nature is essentially lymphatic, diminishes and generally entirely disap]iears before adult life. The ordinary lymph-nodes gradually shrink in old age, though they do not altogether vanish, and all of the other lymphatic struct- ures pursue a simihir degenerative course. The effect of Ivmphadeuoid tissue upon the lymph which passes through it is very marked. For exam]ilc, the lymph which enters a node has fewer cor2)Uscles and less all)uminoid material than that which flows out of it. We thus see that the influence of the node is toward the enrichment of tlie lymph. Extraneous matters absorbed by the lymph-vessels from the juice-channels are caught in the reticular tissue, which crosses the sinus, and are detained temporarily or even permanently. When these particles are bacteria they are liable to set up patho- FiG. 617.—A lymph-node with its afferent and efl'erent vessels. (Testut.)489 NODES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. logic processes. The nodes act as sieves, which prevent to a considerable extent the infection of parts proximal to themselves. The great majority of the nodes are arranged in colonies, a few stand singly bv themselves. Each node or gronp of nodes receives lymj:)!! from fairly well- defined areas and parts. But at the periphery of these areas or parts abundant inosculation with vessels of contiguous regions occurs, and along the boundary lines the lymph may flow into one or the other, or even into both sets of vessels. A single organ may be supplied with lymph-vessels which are tributary to two or even more groups of nodes, as, for example, the uterus, the mamma, the penis, the pericardium. It is of great importance that the sources of supply of lymph for each colony of nodes should be well understood, on account of their frequent infection by the absorption of disease materials. When a single node or colony is invaded by pathologic germs, attention is immediately directed to the region in which must be sought the lesion by which toxic material has been introduced. Consecpiently, it is evident that the most useful, because the most practical, method of studying the lymphatic system is to ascertain what groups of nodes there are, and Avhat vessels are tributary to each of them. The accompanying diagrams have been devised with the idea of supplementing the verbal descriptions by graphic repre- sentations, and of enabling one to see at a glance what region or regions to examine for lesions when any particular colony of nodes is diseased. As has been already remarked, the frequent anastomoses of vessels at the boundaries of contiguous regions should be borne in mind ; and additionally it must be remem- bered that the nodes of each grouj) communicate freely with each other, and that every cluster of nodes is more or less intimately connected with its neighbors. The nodes will now be studied systematically according to the regions in which they are situated, and will be taken up in the following order : nodes of the head and neck; nodes of the upper limb ; nodes of the lower limb; nodes of the thorax ; nodes of the abdomen. In every surgical operation involving the cutting of soft parts, lymphatic vessels are necessarily severed; but, unless the thoracic duct or the right lymph- atic duct is wounded (and these accidents are very rare) the results are trivial. The lymph-vessels generally are so small and so delicate that it is impossible to see them in ordinary, normal conditions, and, consequently, it is impracticable to avoid them. Therefore, it seems undesirable to burden the following descriptions with the exact course pursued by the majority of the small lymphatics. The situation of the several colonies of nodes will be described, the areas and organs which drain into each enumerated, and the destination of its efferents mentioned ; and these are the essential practical points of the subject. THE NODES OF THE HEAD AND NECK and their Tributary Vessels. The nodes of the head and neck (Figs. 518, 619) are so intimately associated that it is most convenient to consider them tosrether. The Deep Cervical Nodes.—The most numerous series is the deep cervical chain, which lies along the course of the internal jugular vein. Into this group, either directly or indirectly, is poured the lymph from the entire head and neck. It is divided into two sets—the upper deep cervical and the lower deep cervical—the first extending from the base of the skull to the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, the second reaching from that line to the clavicle. The upper deep cervical nodes receive immediately the efferents of the parotid, the internal maxillary, the submaxillary, the suprahyoid, and the lingual nodes, and the vessels from the deep muscles of the head and neck, the tonsil, the thyroid body, the lower part of the pharynx, and the upper portion of the larynx. The lorver deep cervical nodes take the lymph from the upper deep cervical and the super- ficial cervical, the lower part of the larynx and thyroid, the upper parts of the490 THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. trachea and oesophagus, and the inferior portions of the neck. The efferents of the deep cervical nodes connect with the superior mediastinal and axillary nodes. The Superficial Cervical Nodes.—The superficial cervical nodes follow the line of the external jugular vein, occupying the posterior triangle of the neck. Their aflerents come from the suboccipital, mastoid, and sul)maxillary nodes, the integu- ment of the neck and that of the external ear. Their eft'erents run to the lower deep cervical. The Suboccipital Nodes lie just below the superior curved line of the occipital bone, taking lymph from the back part of the scalp, and passing it along to the mastoid and superficial cervical nodes. Fig. 518.—The lymph-nodes of the neck and upper p>art of the thorax. (Tcstut.) The Mastoid Nodes are located behind the ear, drain the scalp in that region, and receive efierents from the suboccijiital nodes. Their lymph goes to the sujier- ficial cervical. The Submaxillary Nodes form a chain below and about parallel with the under margin of the mandible. They gather the lymph from the submaxillary and sub- lingual salivary glands, the lips, the front part of the tongue, the floor of the mouth, the nose, the frontal region, and the nasal half of both eyelids. The hucc'ol nodes, which are situated upon the outer surface of the buccinator muscle, interrujit the flow in some of the vessels that bring lymph from the fore part of the fiice. The eiferents of the submaxillary nodes empty into the upjier deep cervical and the superficial cervical. The Suprahyoid Nodes, which lie between the anterior bellies of the digastric muscles, are sometimes counted as belonging to the submaxillary group. They collect lymph from the middle of the lower lip and from the chin, and pour it into the upper deep cervical.NODES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 491 Fig. 519.—Diagram of the nodes and vessels of the head and neck, showing the regions which are drained o each group of nodes. Deep structures in red. superficial in black. (F. H. G.)THE LYMPHATIC SYSTE3I. 492 DEEP CERVICAL NODE PROPER AXILLARY NODES EPICONDYLAR NODE The Parotid Nodes are situated in the region of the ear, some being superficial to the great salivary gland, and others being deep in its substance. They derive their lymph from the outer sui'face of the cheek, the outer half of the lids, the brow, the parietal and temporal regions, all of the parts within the brain-case, and the post-pharyngeal nodes. They send tlie lym])h to the upper deep cervical nodes. (Wal- sham says that their efferents terminate in the submaxillary and superficial cervical.) The Post-pharyngeal Nodes are placed bcliind the uppermost part of the pharynx. Their lymph comes from the hind part of the nasal cavity, the roof of the pharynx, and the preverte- bral muscles, and goes to the parotid nodes. The Internal Maxillary Nodes are situated at the side of the anterior part of the pharynx. Its afferents bring lymph from the orbit, the greater part of the nasal cavity, the upper jaw, the roof of the mouth, the soft pal- ate, the deep surface of the cheek, and the largest portion of the pharynx ; and its eiferents carry the lymph to the ujiper deep cervical. The Lingual Nodes, located on the side of the tongue, get their lymph from the back part of that organ, and empty it into the upper deep cervical nodes. THE NODES OF THE UPPER LIMB and their Tributary Vessels. The Axillary Nodes (Figs. 520, 521) comprise four tolerably distinct grou])s: the axillary proper, arranged around the great vessels of the armpit ; the pectoral, in the course of the long thoracic artery ; the sub- FiG. 520.—The nodes and vessels of the upper limb. (Testut.) Scapular, aloug the Subscapular artery ; and the subclavian, on the costo-coracoid membrane, between the deltoid and greater pectoral muscles. There exists a free communication not only between the nodes of each set, but between the different groups ; so that infection of any one may extend to all of the others. The eflFerents of all of tliese groups discharge into the thoracic duct or the right lympliatic duct. The proper axillary nodes collect the Ij'mph from the epicondylar node, the entire arm, except the surface of the outer side, and all of the forearm and hand, except a portion of the surface which drains into the epicondylar node. — PALMAR PLEXUSNODES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 493 The pectoral nodes drain the greater part of the mammary gland, the integu- ments of the side and front of the chest, and those of the abdomen above the level of the navel. The subscapular nodes receive lymph from the superficies of the back of the neck, the shoulder, and most of the trunk a])ove the crest of the ilium. The subclavian nodes derive their lymph from the skin of the deltoid region and the outer aspect of the arm. They connect with the deep cervical. Forearm and Hand Fig. 521.—Diagram of the nodes of the right upper limb and their superficial tributaries, showing the areas drained by each group. Deep structures In red, superficial in black. (F. H. G.) The Epicondylar Node, situated above the internal condyle of the humerus, gets its lymph from the inner portion of the surface of the hand and forearm, and its efferents carry it to the proper axillary nodes. THE NODES OF THE LOWER LIMB and their Tributary Vessels. The nodes of the lower limb (Figs. 522, 523) are the superficial and deep inguinal, the popliteal, and the gluteal. The Superfcial Inguinal Nodes are arranged in two series—a superior or oblique, and an inferior or vertical. The supjerior set is situated close to the inguinal ligament, and is subdivided into three groups—the external, the middle, and the internal—each comprising about three nodes. Their lymph comes from the integuments of the buttock and the skin around the anus, the lower and outer part of the back above the buttock, the belly below the level of the navel, and the penis (Fig. 524); also from the distal portion of the ui'ethra in both sexes, and from the vulva and the lower third of the vagina in the female. The scrotum and the superficial portion494 THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. of the perineum frequently drain into this set; and occasionally vessels from the uterus end in it. The inferior set is situated at the saphenous opening'. It takes the lymph from the superficial parts of the thigh, and of the entire leg and foot, except their outer side : also from the scrotum and the iutegu- ments of the perineum, and sometimes the penis, vulva, urethra, and lower part of tiie vagina. The superficial inguinal nodes discharge partly into the deep inguinal and partly into the external iliac. The Popliteal Nodes, located deeply in the ham- space, get tlieir lym])h from the surface of the outer side of the leg and foot, and the deep structui-es of the same segments of the limb. Their efferents join the deep lymj)hatic vessels of the leg. The Deep Inguinal Nodes are grouped around the itl\ upper end of the femoral artery and vein. Their afferent vessels come from the superficial inguinal nodes and from the deej) structures of the greater part of the limb ; and their efferents run to the ex- ternal iliac nodes. 7 1\ J (7 Lower and inner part of Buttock, and Skin around Ants Fig. ."il>2.—TIr- nortes and vessels of the lower limb. (Testut.j Greater part of Foot and Leg Fig. 523.—Diagram of the superficial inguinal and the popliteal nodes of the right side and their superficial tributaries, showing areas drained by each subgroup. Deep structures in red, superficial in black. Frequent variations in dotted lines. (F. H. G.) The Gluteal Nodes, lying near the pyriformis muscle, derive their lymph from the deep parts of the buttocks, and transmit it to the internal iliac nodes.495 NODES OF THE THORAX. Fig. 524—The lymph-vessels of the penis. (Testut.) THE NODES OF THE THORAX and their Tributary Vessels. The nodes of the thoracic cavity (Fig. 525) are all deep, and derive their lymph from deep structures; that is, not at all from integumentary organs. They are disposed in the following groujis : the sternal, the intercostal, the anterior mediastinal, the posterior mediastinal, the superior mediastinal, the bronchial, and the vena-caval. They discliarge into the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. The Sternal Nodes lie in tlie spaces between the costal cartilages close to the borders of the l)reast-bone. livmph flows to them from the deep portions of the mammary glands, from the anterior and lateral walls of the chest, from the U])per part of the front and sides of the abdominal walls, from the diaphragm, and from the anterior mediastinal nodes. The Intercostal Nodes are lodged in the hindmost part of the intercostal spaces. They drain the thoracic part of the spinal canal, the costal pleurte, and the poste- rior and lateral portions of the chest-walls. The Anterior Mediastinal Nodes are situated in front of the heart. Their lymph comes from the pericardium, the diaj^hragm, the liver, and the stei'nal nodes, and goes partly directly to the gi'eat terminal vessels of the system, and partly to superior mediastinal and sternal nodes. The Posterior Mediastinal Nodes, located around the aorta, have afferents from the heart, the pericardium, the Icnver part of the oesophagus, and the diaphragm, and communicate freely with the i)ronchial nodes. The Superior Mediastinal Nodes lie in front of the arch of the aorta. Their tributaries come from tlie thymus gland, the heart, the pericardium, the anterior mediastinal and the bronchial nodes. There is a direct connection between tiiis group and the deej) cervical nodes. The Bronchial Nodes (Fig. 518), gathered at the roots of the lungs, take lymph from the lungs, the pulmonary pleurae, the lower part of the trachea, the bronchi, the bronchioles, and the pericai'dium, and communicate with the superior and the posterior mediastinal nodes.yODES OF THE ABDO:\IEX. 497 The Vena-caval Nodes, few and small, are placed close to the upper end of the inferior vena cava. Vessels from the upper and hind part of the liver perforate the diaphragm, and discharge into them. THE NODES OF THE ABDOMEN and their Tributary Vessels. Like the thoracic, the abdominal nodes (Fig. 52oj are all deep, and, with a single exception, their immediate source of lymph is other than superficial. They are arranged in the following groups : the mesenteric, the mesocolic, the cceliac, the hepatic, the gastric, the splenic, the median lumbar, the lateral lum- bar, the external iliac, the internal iliac, the sacral, and the rectal. The Mesenteric Nodes (Fig. 526), lodged between the layers of tlie mesentery, take the lymph from the small intestines through the lacteal vessels. They discharge by a large trunk into the receptaculum chyli. The Coeliac Nodes, grouped in the region of the creliac axis, re- ceive lymph from the liver and the gall-bladder, the stomach, the pancreas, the spleen, and the great omentum, and empty it into the efferent trunk of the mesenteric. In the course of the vessels which carry lymph from the liver, stomach, and spleen to this group are small nodes, called respectively hepatic nodes, gastric nodes, and splenic nodes. The Mesocolic Nodes lie between the layers of the mesocolon. Their afferents come from the c« 'um, the ascending and transverse colon, and the upper portion of the descending colon ; and their efferents run to the mesenteric efferent trunk. The Median Lumbar Nodes are situated close to the abdominal aorta. Their sttpply of lymph comes from the body of the uterus, the ovaries and the Fallo- pian tubes, the testicles, the kidneys, the ureters, the diaphragm, the suprarenal bodies, the external iliac, internal iliac, sacral and lateral lumbar nodes ; and the trunk by which they discharge into the receptaculum is joined by the efferents of the lower part of the descending and the whole of the sigmoid colon. The Lateral Lumbar Nodes lie in the spaces between the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebr;e. Their afferents come from the lower part of the spinal canal, and the dorsal and lateral portions of the abdominal walls ; and their efferents run to the median lumbar nodes and the receptaculum. Tlie External Iliac Nodes, situated along the line of the external iliac vessels, take lympli from the ventral and lateral parts of the walls of the abdomen, and from the superficial and deep inguinal nodes. They have a communication with the internal iliac nodes, and discharge into the median lumbar. The Internal Iliac Nodes, lying around the internal iliac vessels, have tribu- taries from the deep parts of the penis, the proximal portion of the urethra, the bladder, the prostate, the neck of the uterus, the upper two-thirds of the vagina, the deep layers of the perineum, the pelvic muscles, the adductor region of the thigh, and the gluteal nodes. They send their lymph to the median lumbar nodes, and have connection with the external iliac. The Sacral Nodes, situated in the curve of the sacriuii, have afferents from the dorsal and lateral pelvic parietes and from the rectal nodes, which take their lymph from the rectum. Fig. 526.—Mesenteric nodes. (Testut.)THE CEREBRO-SPINAL AXIS. By F. H. GERRISH. THE great nervous mass which occupies the main cavity of the cranium is known as the encephalon ("in the head") or brain ; and the prolongation of this, Avhich is lodged in the canal made by the vertebrae and the cartilaginous plates between them, is called the myelon (" marrow") or .yjinal cord. Radiating from these structures are many cords, called nerves; and this fact suggested the name axis for these combined central organs, the distinguishing ^ y (o) Fig. 528.—Diagram of the conversion of the dorsal groove into a canal. adjective cerebrospinal, which is usually asso- ciated with the noun, deriving its first part from "cerebrum," which is the most conspicuous portion of the encephalon, and its last part from the column of bones in which the myelon is located (Fig. 527). The cerebro-spinal axis is first observed in the embryo as a longi- tudinal groove on its dor- sal asjject. Its edges Fig. 527.—Semidiagrammatic view of „f +lip c,V1p« the cerebro-spinal axis, left side. (Testut.) g' OW Up ai ine SlUes, curve toward the mid- line, meet there, and fuse together (Fig. 528). The result is that the gutter is changed into a tube. One end of the tube enlarges into a sac, and this develojis into the enceph- alon (Fig. 529). The remainder of the tube becomes the spinal cord. The cavity of the encephalon is always con- tinuous with that of the spinal cord. Great changes take place in both parts, especially in the encephalon ; but throughout these modifications, cer- tain things are almost invariable. In nearly all of the amazing complications of encephalic growth, three things I'emain as in the simplest form of encephalon in the embryo : (1) a cavity-wall of nervous tissue; (2) a 499 V Fig. .=)29.—Diagram of first stage of axial cavity.500 THE CEBEBRO-SPmAL AXIS. lining of epithelium ; and (3) a membranous covering, which is essentially a net- work of blood-vessels (Fig. 530). (1) The nervous substance is gray, or white, or both of these. In diiferent parts this nervous wall receives distinguishing names—gyrus, lamina, nucleus, commissure, etc. (2) The lining is serous in character, and secretes a watery fluid, which moderately fills the entire cavity. The membrane is called ependyma, or merely P I A Fig. 530.—Diatiram of transverse section of Fig. 531.—Diagram of transverse section of axis, typical wall of cavity of cerebro-spinal axis. where a portion of the nervous wall has disap- peared, allowing pia and endyma to come together. endyma {" garment"). The fluid is called cerebrospinal fluid, or cejjhcdo-rachidiem fluid. (3) The covering sends nutrient vessels into the substance of the wall, and is called the pio, ov pia vuder (" the tender mother"). The solid \vall may grow to a thickness of several inches, it may dwindle to the thinness of paper, or it may even disappear altogether (Fig. 531); but endyma and pia are persistent. The endyma is a perfect shut sac, save for a diminutive aperture at a single point, by which a communication is established with another serous cavity lying outside of the axis. Real comprehension of the subject cannot be acquired without appre- ciation of these primary conditions, here repeated : that the eneepjhalon is a hollow organ, filled with fluid; that // has everywhere a serous lin- ing ; that it has a vascular plexus for its outer investment; and that it has nearly everywhere between its lin- ing and its covering a solid vmll of nervous tissue, which varies im- mensely in thickness in diiferent parts. The encephalon, at first a single vesicle, soon becomes elongated, and then constricted circularly and deeply at two equidistant points. In this way three secondary vesicles are formed (Fig. 532). They do not, however, long remain in this condition ; for, while the middle one continues single, the front one and the rear one are soon constricted transversely and divided, each forming two. Thus, there is a series of five vesicles of sub- FiG. 532. — Diagram of the three secondary vesicles of the brain. Fig. 533.—Diagram of the five ultimate vesicles of the brain.THE CAVITY OF THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. 501 stantially equal size, -whose cavities communicate through central apertures (Fig. 533). These five vesicles are the primary forms of the five grand divisions of the adult encephalon, and are named in order, from before backward, prosenceph- alon, diencephalon, mesencejjhalon, ejjencepjJialon, and metencepjJtalon. The first and second show a tendency in the developed state to revert to their oi'iginal con- dition of unity, and the same is true of the fourth and fifth ; but the third remains single and distinct from its earliest appearance to its most complete development. Vernacular names also are given them—forebrain, betweenbrain, midl^rain, hindbrain, afterbrain—but only the first of them is so clearly descriptive as to convey infalliljly the idea intended, and it would be better to discard them for the technical appellations, which, while etymolngically not greatly superior, are widely used by the scientific with definite meanings, and are understood by all anatomists. When these vesicles are first observed, they are, as has been said, aljout equal in size and very similar in form ; but the likeness which they bear to each other does not long continue : they grow at very different rates of speed, and, when fully developed, are so dissimilar in appearance that it is difficult to understand that they could have been of almost identical shaj)e and bulk at any former period. Some parts, which are brought into close contact with others, seem to blend; while others, in nearly similar conditions, undergo shrinkage, and finally disappear. FIRST VESICLE THE CAVITY OF THE CEREBRO-SPINAL AXIS. Let 115 first consider the cavitif of the cerebro-spinal axis, ignoring for the while the enclosing Avails ; and, when Ave haA-e gained a comprehension of this, Ave can proceed more understandingly to the study of the surrounding solid material. Supjiose the caA-ities of the fiA^e encephalic A^esicles to be of equal size, and that of the spinal cord to be a cylindrical continuation from the fifth or hindmost vesicle. We haA'e then, to start Avith, a series of chambers, each communicating freely Avith the one next behind it. This continuity of the caA'ities is always maintained, CA'cn though the original chambers un- dergo alterations of form so prodigious that only a very slight resemblance to the primitiA'e shape re- mains. For the sake of sim- plification we Avill first examine the subject dia- grammatically, taking the A-esicles one by one in regular order ; and, in con- sidering each, A\-e Avill ignore as far as possible the changes which in nature take place in its immediate neighbors synchronously with those in itself. To begin Avith Ave haA'e t\w first reside, the most anterior—the prosencephalon —Avhich ultimately becomes the cerebral hemispheres. From the upper and front part of its globular caA'ity on each side a little sprout is put forth (Fig. 534). The distal end of this protrusion enlarges, and becomes of much greater size than the parent caA'ity (Fig. 535). Then each of the new appendages sends out a prolongation forward, a second backward, and a third which curls sidewise and downward. These, from their shape, are called horns or cornua (Fig. 536). In this process of enlargement the original A'esicle is so far outgrown by its off- shoots that it is in great danger of being lost sight of. The chief cavity on each side is called a ventricle, and, from its being at the side, lateral. Of the lateral Fig. 534 —Diagram of the formation of the portae. Fig. 535.—Diagram of the formation of the bodies of the lateral ventricles.502 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. ventricle the main part is known as the body, and the prolongations from it are named respectively anterior horn, middle or descending horn, and posterior horn. Tiie original spront now serves for a passage of communication between the primary vesicle and the ventricle, and is known commonly as the foramen of Monro; but it is better designated as por-ta ("the doorway"). The original cavity of the vesicle, now subordinate in extent to the large chambers to wliich it has given rise, is called aula ("the hall"). Thus we have from the cavity of the fii'st vesicle the following parts : the aula in the centre, and on each side a porta, and a lateral ventricle with its three horns (Figs. 536, 537). Notice that the aula is distinctly l)elow the plane of the body of the ventricle, and that the middle horn descends to a level much below that of the aula. Fig. 538.—Diagram of the full development of the lateral ventricles and their cornua—view from above. Passing to the cavity of the second encephalic ivsiclc—the diencephalon—we find that it considerably outgrows the aula, which is just in front of it. Its enlargement is very slight sidewise and is almost entirely up-and-down and l)ackward, as if the vesicle had been squeezed between two vertical ])lanes at the sides (Figs. 538, 539). The result of this development is to make the second vesicle a long, deep, narrow chink in the middle line—a fore-and-aft median crevice, with the aula in front and the third vesicle behind. The original con- striction between this cavity and that of the first vesicle becomes practically Fig. 53".—Same as Fig. 536—view from the left side. obliterated, and, consequently, the cavities of the aula and the second vesicle merge into one, the greater portion of which is contributed by the second vesicle, that furnished by the first vesicle being located at the upper and fore part. This composite cavity, made of the whole of the second and a part of the first vesicle,503 THE CA VITY OF THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. is usually called the third ventricle, the first and second ventricles being the lateral, which are never designated in a numerical way, but always as right lateral ventricle and left lateral ventricle. It will now be seen that the third ventricle communicates with each lateral ventricle by a separate porta. Next we study the cavity of the third encephcdic vesicle—the mesencephalon. This assumes a shape as if it were stretched between its neighbor in front and the one behind : it is drawn out into a small tube, and thus constitutes a long and narrow channel from the vesicle before to that behind (Fig. 640). It is named the aqueduct (aqueductus Sylvii—from Sylvius, a celebrated anatomist), and also by another name, which will be better understood ^,„^^ ; a little later. '\ / The cavity of the fourth encephalic vesicle—the epencephalon \ '""^'^ / —instead of retaining its globular shape, is '' flattened from above downward, as if it had i ^ _ ^ ^ / been compressed between plane surfaces applied \ "^^' "'.'''i. / uj obliquely to its dorsal and ventral aspects; \ / Ftg. 538.—Diagram Fig. 539.—Same as Fig. 538—view from left side. Fig. -MO.-Diagram of changes' in se'cond of elianges in third vesicle—view from vesicle, above. and it is widened out behind, assuming a triangular form, the a{)ex being for- ward (Figs. 541, 542). A little of the constriction between it and the fifth vesicle is still observable, even in the developed condition. The cavitv of the JiJ'th encephalic vesicle—the metencephalon—undergoes changes in its fore part almost identical with those ; -r-.^.-r. i experienced by that of the fourth; but the triangle \ ,:^^:rL~ 1 which it forms has its base forward, applied to the base of the triangle of the fourth vesicle, and its apex backward, and the obliquity of the surfaces is oppo- site to that of those of the fourth (Figs. 543, 544). Thus, the two vesicles form a single shallow cavity FOURTH VESICLE Fi'i- 541.—Diagram of changes Fig. 542.—Diagram of changes in fourth vesicle—view from left side, in fourth vesicle—view from above. of rhomboidal form, when viewed from above. The hind part of this fifth vesi- cle is drawn out into a tube, and is continuous with the cavity of the myelon. The combined cavities of the fourth and fifth vesicles form what is commonly known as the fourth ventricle. We note that this fourth ventricle is connected with the third ventricle by the aqueduct, the other name of which, promised504 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. above, can now be appreciated. It is iter a fctiio ad (piaiium vcnfricuilinn (" the passage from the third to the fourth ventricle"), a name with the merit of descriptiveness, but with the fault of tiresome length. F- O Li H -i- H Fig. 543.—Diasram of changes in fifth vesicle- view from above. The carifi/ of tlie mydon or spinal cord retains its original, cylindrical shape, and is called the central canal of the sjnnal cord. It is continuous at its cephalic end with the f)urtli ventricle. The preceding diagrams have been drawn as if all of the vesick'S were upon the same plane, for the sake of simplicity ; but, during their synchronous development, a marked FIFTH VESICLE Cavity of spinal cord Fir.. 544.—Diagram of changes in fifth vesicle—view from left side. curve with a ventral concavity takes place at about the junction of the third ventricle and the aqueduct, and thus the long axis of the spinal cord is brought nearly to a right angle with the plane of the lateral ventricles. Tlie description of the encephalic vesicles here given is not designed for a portrayal of the process which is discovered by em- bryological research, but is intended merely to present in a diagrammatic manner the main features of tiie results which are brofp"na?axis^?iewVom''ato^^ reached by the developmental process. The shape and relative size of these different cavities, wlien fully formed, can be seen in Fig. 546, which represents a cast, made by filling them with a liquid material, which solidified on standing. The surrounding solid tissue being I'emoved, we obtain a perfect cast of the general t^cnti-ieidar cavity, as the combined chambers and tubes of the encephalou are called. V505 THE WALLS OF THE CEBEBRO-SPINAL AXIS. The general ventricular cavity is moderately filled with a serous fluid, the cerebro-spinal, which mingles with the fluid occujjying the serous space outside of the encephalic mass through a small hole, the foramen of 3Iagendie (metapore), in the roof of the fourth ventricle. To illustrate the complexity and also the continuity of this cavitv of the enceplialon, imagine the shortest course which a small, aquatic insect must pur- sue in going from the apex of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle to the canal of the spinal cord, witliout leaving the cavity. First it would swim outward, and then successively backward, ujiward, inward, and for- ward, following the jieculiar curves of the middle horn, before it could reach the body, the main hall, of the lateral ventricle. It would then pass forward and upward, for the floor of the ven- tricle slopes down from its front end. At the median side of the fore part of the ventricle, just at the beginning of the anterior horn, the little creature would work its way through the porta, a brief passage-way, which would let the traveller down into the third ven- tricle. Coursing backward through this deep crevice to its hind end, a narrow channel, the aqueduct, would be entered and traversed in a direction liackward and downward. Emerging from this contracted passage, it would find itself in the shallow fourth ventricle, the long axis of which is somewhat backward, but more downward. Going from one end of this chamber to the other, it would arrive finally in the central canal of the spinal cord. view from above. (Testut.) Cast of general ventricular cavity- OF MONRO Fig. 547.—Cast of left lateral and tliird ventricl<j.s. from left side. fTestut.) THE WALLS OF THE CEREBRO-SPINAL AXIS. Having now obtained an adequate idea of the cavity of the cerebro-spinal axis we proceed to studv the iralh which enclose this space. As has been said, they are composed of nervous tissue, which is lined with endyma and clothed with pia. The mass thus constituted may be conveniently considered in sections. Thus, we will take successively the walls of the lateral ventricles, of the third ventricle, of the aqueduct, of the fourth ventricle, and of the central canal of the spinal cord (Fig. 548). The several sections of the encephalon in their developed condition are commonly known by names other than those given to the primary vesicles, with a single exception. The walls of each lateral ventricle constitute aTHE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. 606 cerebral hemii^phere, the two hemispheres making; tlie cerebrum ; the region of the third ventriele is known as the thalaiiicnceph(don, on aeeount of its walls consist- ing to a very large extent of two great bodies called thalami ; the a(iueduct is enclosed in a nervons mass, which is often known hy its original name, mesen- cephalon, sometimes as the isfhunis, from its forming a connecting bond between the parts before and those behind it, and, perhaps most frequently, as the crura cerebri (" the legs of the cerebrum"), from the stalk-like appearance of its ventral portion ; and the fourth ventricle is surrounded by nervous masses so differentiated from each other that they are not designated by a single collective term, but are referred to as separate organs. Of these the ])rincipal are the cerebel/uin {" the little cerebrum " or " little brain "), the poii.'^ (" the bridge " or " the bridge of Varolius "), and tho niedu/la ob/oric/ftfa {" the oblong marrow"), also called by either of its names singly—preferably by the latter, as this gives no suggestion of the medulla spinalis ("the spinal marrow"), a name formerly much used instead of spinal Corel, which is the final segment of the cerebro-sjiinal axis, and sui'- ronnds the central canal of the s])inal cord. The relative proportion and disposition of the gray and white nervous matter are very difl'erent in the various parts. For example, in the cord the gray occupies a central posi- tion, while in the cerel)rum the greater part of this kind of material is at the surface. In the encephalon we find also many collections of gray ner- vous tissue, which seem to casual observation isolated, and independent of the gray at the surface and of the rather regular, continuous, and orderly arranged gray sub- stance of the cord. The white nervous tissue is somewhat more easily understood, as we can trace a continuity in its mass for very considerable distances, indeed, practically from one extremity of the axis to the other. Beginning our inspection in the cord, we follow the fibres successively into and through the regions of the fourth ventricle, of the aqueduct, of the third ventricle, and last into the region of the lateral ventricles, whei'e we find them ending in the gray matter of the very surface of the cerebrum. REGION OF TME CENTRAL CANAL OF THE SPINAL CORD Fig. 548—Diagram to show the relations of the cavity to the principal divisions of the axis. A Diagrammatic Description of the Brain. The relations of the primary segments of the encephalon in their fully devel- oj)ed state are so complex tliat a diagrammatic presentation of the snltject is a helpful introduction to its fuller study. The First Vesicle.—As would be expected from the great size and wide expan- sion of its cavity, the first vesicle attains a volume far in excess of that reached by any other ; indeed, so large does it become that its bulk surpasses that of all the others together, and it overlaps them to such an extent as to conceal them com-THE WALLS OF THE CEREBROSPINAL iVXIS. 507 pletely in the view from above. Imagine it growing as the cavitv has been repre- sented to spread out—its central part (the aula) increasing little, the lateral portions much—and suppose that in the median line the wall is relatively verv thin, and almost everywhere else very thick. The result is that there is an immense mass on each side, the two separated by a deep fore-and-aft cleft, and held together by bands near the bottom of this dividing fissure. As in all other parts of the encephalon, there is substantially a bilateral symmetry in these structures; that is, the portion on one side is a reversed repetition of that on the oi)]iosite side. Seen from above each suggests by its form a half-globe ; and, although the resemblance is not observed from other points of view, the name hemiiipheres is given to these cerebral masses. If the encephalon is cut in two exactly in the middle line, and an inspection is made of the left surface of the right half, we have such a view of the first and second vesicles as is shown in Fig. 549, only that the diagram, in- stead of displaying them in contact, as they lie in nature, represents the upper of the two segments as if nearly separated from the lower by a tilting up of its hind end and a corresjiond- ing depressing of its front, the pivotal point being the region of the porta (foramen of Monro), represented by a circle at the left of the label " thala- mus " and a little above it. The red line indicates pia. Between the porta and the label is the aula (the median portion of the first vesiclej, from the front and upper part of which the porta opens into the lateral ventricle. The aula and all above and in front of it is cerebrum, the develop- ment of the first vesicle. Observe that the pia is ajiplied to the hemisphere and is reflected from it to the thalamus, which constitutes the main portion of the wall of the second vesicle. The part marked caUosum is the cut surface of the great bond of union between the hemispheres. This body reaches far into the substance of the hemisphere, and forms the roof of the lateral ventricle. In the picture all above, before, and behind the callosum is free surface of the hemi- sphere, not cut by the median incision. A little below the callosum is an arched structure, labelled/or/H'.r, cut through by the incision. Between callosum above and fornix liehjw is stretched a thin plate, the septum lucidum. Going down to the region of the second encephalic vesicle, we find that its cavity has been com- pletely exposed by the median cut, and its lateral wall, marked thalaravs, displays a free surface ; but when we look for the cavity of the first vesicle, we find only the aula and the porta ; that is to say, the front and upper part of the third ven- tricle, and the hole of communication between the third ventricle and the lateral ventricle, the last named chamber being shut from our sight by the septum lucidum. To get a view of the lateral ventricle our best plan is to slice off the mass of the hemisphere which lies over the callosum, and then to cut through the latter near the median line, removing as much of the structure as is necessary to expose the cavity beneath it. We shall tlien observe what is shown in Fig. 550. The right lateral ventricle has been unroofed by this removal and its floor is laid bare. This has a very uneven surfiice from the irregularity of the contour of the structures which form it. The intrusions of substance are due in one place to the thickening of the wall of the cavity, and in another to the infolding of the wall where it is rather thin. At the front part is an illustration of the former, the cavAate nucleus bulging into the chamber in a region where there is a bulky Dia^am to show the relations of the parts developed from the first vesicle to the parts developfd from the second vesicle. The hemisphere is tilted for- ward. (F. H. G.)THE CEREBBO-SPINAL AXIS. 508 wall ; and at the back part is an example of the latter kind, the calcar being a rounded ridg-e, which marks the location of a deep impression on the sloping area of the under surface of the hemisphere. In the floor of the ventricle are seen, in regular t)rder from front to back, the gray caudate nuclcm, around the fore part of which bends the shallow anterior cornu, while the mesial border of the mass is marked by a Avhite ribbon-like band, the tcenia semicircularis; next and parallel to the last, a long, purplish body, the choroid plexus, composed of clumps of blood-vessels ; then a white structure, the fornix, whose outer margin is named fimbria; and, finally, the calcar, which forms the floor and mesial side of the posterior cornu. At the hind end of the fornix l)egins the middle cornu, which extends far down and forward, below tiie level of the parts seen b}^ the removal of the callosum. Into it are prolonged Fig. 550.—Sketch of the right lateral ven- Fig. .551.—Same as Fig. .5.50, except that the tricle from above, its roof having been cut fornix has been folded back, exposing the away. (F. H. G.) velum interpositum. (F. H. G.) the caudate nucleus with its tjenia, the choroid plexus, and the fornix with its fimbria. In Fig. 549 the fornix is shown as the undermost of the nervous struct- ures concerned in forming the lateral ventricle in the median region, and its outer surface (which is underneath), like all external surfaces of the encejjhalou, is cov- ered with pia, the vascular membrane. If we cut away the fornix (as seen in Fig. 550), peeling it off carefully from the pia beneath it, we shall expose the attached surface of this membrane, and find that the object, which we have called choroid plexus, is the fringed and crum])led edge of this part of the pia, which has intruded itself into the lateral ventricle between the free border of the fornix and the free border of the caudate nucleus—that is, between the corpus fimbriatum and the ttenia semicircularis (Fig. 551). This intrusion is made ])ossiVjle I)y the disappearance of the nervous tissue along this line, and thus the pia covering the part and the endyma lining its cavity are brought into contact. The choroid plexus, like all the other parts of the wall of the ventricle, has its investment of endyma.THE CEREBRUM. 509 The Second Vesicle.—The walls of the second encephalic vesicle, enclosing the most of the third ventricle, are strikingly uneqnal in their development. At the sides they become very thick, forming the masses called the thalami ; in front and below the walls are very thin ; and at the top the nervous tissue disappears entirely, leaving the serous lining in contact with the vascular covering—the endyma and the pia thus constituting the roof of the cavity. In Fig. 549 the cerebral hemisphere is pictured as hinged at the region of the porta and canted forward, in order that it may be more easily regarded inde- pendently of the second encephalic segment. Now, let us replace the hemisjihere in the position which it normally occupies, namely, resting upon the second seg- ment, the thalamencephalou (Fig. 552). The pia underlying the fornix and the pia overlying the thalamus are thus brought together, and in this way a double layer of vascular membrane is made to intervene between the bottom of the first encephalic segment and the top of the second. These layers fuse together and constitute the vdhxm interpositHm ("the interposed veil"). The first two encephalic segments have more in common than their con- nection in the region of the porta and the blending of the layers of pia which come between them. There is a con- tinuation into the hemisphere of gi'eat columns of nerve-tissue from the thalamencephalou, which receives them from the parts behind and below itself; and these will be deserilied later. The Third Vesicle.—Passing from the thalamencephalon we come to the mesence]jhalon, the region of the third encephalic vesicle, which contains the aqueduct. Here the walls are everywhere thickened, and, when viewed on their ventral aspect, look like two strong pillars, the crum cerebri; but their dorsal aspect presents four knobs, called corpora quadrigemina ("the four-twin bodies"). The Fourth Vesicle.—The ventral wall of the fourth encephalic vesicle is thick, constituting the pons ; the side walls, the pedunculi, are rather thin ; and the true dorsal wall, the valvida, is very thin. But a large, solid mass, the cere- bellum, overhangs the rest of the segment, and to casual inspection conveys the idea of au enormous thickening of the dorsal wall. The Fifth Vesicle.—The fifth encephalic vesicle, the oblongata, is the j^art least altered from the form of the spinal cord, Avith which it is continuous. It looks as if it were split in the middle behind, and its upper part Avidely spread open. Stretching across the cavity from one of these spread edges to the other is a layer of endyma, covered by a thin layer of pia, Avithout the intervention of any nerve- tissue, constituting the roof of this segment. The preceding diagrammatic presentation of the salient points in the structure of the encephalon will serve as a frameAvork on Avhich to build up more detailet:! information on the subject. Fig. 5.52.—Diagram like Fig. 549, except that the hemispheres have been put back in their normal posi- tion. (F. H. G.) THE CEREBRUM. The Surface of the Cerebrum. The surface of each hemisphere of the cerebrum is composed of a layer of gray nervous tissue of A'ariable thickness in different parts. The conA'ex, exter- nal surface, the flat mesial surface, the in-egular under surface—all present an outer stratum of cellular nerA-e-material, called the cortical layer, because it is aTHE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. 610 covering, like the bark (cortex) of a tree. In the young ftetus this cortex is smooth and uncreased (Fig. 553) ; but, as months go by, it becomes wrinkled, narrow depressions occurring all over it, and getting deeper and more numerous with its development (Fig. 554). These creases are infoldings of the cortex ; and, consequently, the more numerous and the deeper they are the greater is the amount of the peripheral gray substance. They are called fi&sureH, or .S'?(7c/. To the uncritical eye they seem to be nearly or quite without system in their arrange- ment, and they give the cerebrum an appearance not inaptly compared to that of thf mass of small intestines, which is seen when the abdomen is laid open and the omentum is lifted off. This coiled look has given the parts between the FiG.553.—Brain of six-months'human embryo, natural Fig. 554.—Cerebrum of eight-months' human size. (KoUiker.) embryo, left side. The insula is nearly covered in. (Testut.) gyri have been discovered to be for the most part so constant and regular that they have received names intended to be descriptive of their location or shape. They are similar on the two sides, but not identical, and are subject to considerable variations in different individuals. But before giving further consideration to the gyri and the fissures separating them, it is important to notice a few clefts which make larger divisions. The Longitudinal Fissure.—The two hemispheres are separated by the great longitudinal fissure. This goes through from top to bottom of the cerebrum in front and behind ; but for the middle two-fourths or more of its antero-posterior length it is stopjied when half-way down by the chief of the bands or commissures which connect the hemispheres, namely, the callosnm (corpus callosum). All of the other fissures are found alike in each hemisphere, except the transverse, which is half in one hemisphere and half in the other. The Sylvian Fissure.—Inspecting the hemisphere from the side or from below, the most pronounced peculiarity of its form is seen to be due to the presence of a cleft, Avhich starts near the centre of the base (at the anterior perforated sjmce), and, going upward and backward, cuts so deeply as to mark off very conspicu- ously a large mass from the middle portion of the hemisphere at its lowest part. This fissui'e is the Si/Jvian (fissnra Si/lviana) (Figs. 554, 555, 559). The greatest part of the undivided fissure is plainly seen only on the base of the hemisphere, but its divisions are visible only from the side. A little of the fissure proper shows laterally, but it divides immediately into anterior and posterior limbs, the former subdividing into two short branches, rtscendine/ and horizontal. The poste- rior limb courses backward and a little upward, ending with a decidedly upward inclination at about two-thirds of the distance from the front to the back of the hemisph(M-e, and half-way between summit and base. The Central Fissure.—In the middle region of the lateral surface above the Sylvian fissure is the central fissure (Rolandic) (Fig. 555), extending in an undulating course from the longitudinal fissure forward and downward almost (or quite) to the Sylvian. It begins behind the half-way point between front and511 THE CEREBRUM. back, and ends anteriorly to this plane, thus obliquely dividing the surface into approximately equal parts. The Parieto-occipital Fissure.—Far back on the ujjper margin of the hemi- sphere, as it slopes toward the base, is seen a notch, which marks the beginning of a tissure of the mesial surface, the parieto-oceijjital fissure, which will be described later. The Lobes on the External Surface (Fig. 555).—In these three fissures we have the basis for a division of the lateral surface into lobes ; and, although the division is rather artificial, and "lobe " is not an ideal name for the segments, it is necessary to have some means of designating the various parts, and this jilau is convenient. The lobes visible on this convex surface are the frontal, the parietal, the occipital, and the temporal; but, though bearing the names of certain cranial bones, the limits of the h)bes do not coincide with those of the osseous structures nearest which each respectively lies and from which it gets its name. If a line is drawn from the parieto-occipital fissure downward and forward to a point on the lower border beneath the rear end of the Sylvian fissure, usually marked by a notch, the pre-occipital, and another line in prolongation of the nearly horizontal jiart of the Sylvian fissure is made to touch the first one a little above its middle, the delimitation of the lobes is effected. Behind the parieto- FlG. 555.—The lobes ol' tlie cuiivex surface of the hemisphere, left side. occipital line is the ocdpital lobe ; in front of this and beneath the Sylvian fissure and its extension is the temporal lobe (temporo-sphenoidal) ; in front of the central fissure is the frontal lobe ; and the residue, the area bounded in front by the central fissure, Ijelow by the Sylvian, behind by the parieto-occipital and its imaginary ])rolongation, and above by the longitudinal fissure, is the parietal lobe. The Insula.—If the lower and front part of the parietal lobe and the lower and back part of the frontal lobe are lifted away from the Sylvian fissure, and the adjacent part of the temporal lobe is pressed down, there is brought into view a fifth lobe, which, from its situation, is called the central lobe, but is more com- monly known as the insula ("the island") or the island of Eeil (Fig. 556). Until ffetal life is half completed this lobe is distinctly superficial; but then its immediate neighbors increase so rapidlv in size as to outstrip the insula in the race of growth—the parietal folds down, the frontal bulges back, the temporal crowds up from below—and among them it gets completely covered in ; and in this process the Sylvian fissure is formed, the portion between the frontal and temporal lobes being the main fissure, that between parietal and temporal being the posterior limb, and that within the frontal the anterior limb. Morpho- logically the insula is the oldest lobe, and it stands, as will soon be shown, in512 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. closer relation than any other to the great ganglia at the base of the hemisphere. The insula is sometimes called gifri operfi (" the covered gyres") ; and the ]iarts of the frontal and parietal lobes Avhich overla]) the insula are known as the opcrcuhi.m ("the cover"). The Lobes of the Mesial and Tentorial Surfaces.—The mcsUd surface of the hemispliere cannot t)e seen ])laiuly without dividing the encephalon in the middle line, and removing the hemispheres from each other ; and the surface which con- FiG. 556.—The left insula, the overlapping parts uf the hemisphere having been removed. The numerals specify the gyri. (Daltou). tinues the mesial downward (called the tentorial surface, on account of its resting in part upon the tentorium) is brought into view from the middle line by the removal of the crus and all below it. This dissection exposes a number of objects huddled together in the centre of the field, of Avhich the largest, highest, and most conspicuous is the callosum, already mentioned as the great bond of union between the hemispheres. This displays a broad, cut surface, which forms a flat- tened arcli from the front to the back of this mid region, and under the arch are gathered many structures, which, being internal, will be passed by until the study of the peri})hery is completed. AVhen we look directly upon the Hat, mesial surface of the hemisphere, the tentorial surface, into which the mesial runs at its lower Ijorder, slopes away from us to the lower margin of the convex, external surface, as is shown liy Fig. 557. Thus, when viewed from the median line the tentorial surface is a good deal foreshortened. On the mesial surface (Fig. 558) are parts of two fissures already mentioned as api)earing on the convex surface : the central, the upper end of which notches tlie sharp border more than half-way back ; and the pariefo-occipital, which, from its small beginning on the convexity of the hemisjihere, is continued over the boi'der, and then downward and forward, joining the calcarine at an acute angle. The calcarine fissure (from calcar, "a spur") runs from near the rather ])ointed hind end of the hemisphere upward and forward, and just beyond its middle, at the point where it receives the parieto-occipital, bends downward, and terminates beneath the rear end of the callosum. Encircling the callosum is a fi,?sure, called the caUosal. Beginning below the front end of the callosum is a fissure, which runs in a curve nearly concentric with that of the callosal and also with that of the margin of the hemisphere, until a point above the hind end of the callosum is reached, at which the fissure turns, and runs upward and backward to the upper border. Its situation gives it the name caUoso-marginal fissure. Coursing in the general direction of the body of this fissure, between it and the parieto- TEN-<° Fig. 557.—Outline of coro- nal section of liemispherc, showing slope of tentorial s\irface. ITHE CEREBRUM. 513 occipital, is frequently an irregular, somewhat liroken fissure, the precuneal or subparietal ; and running nearly horizontally in the midst of the sloping tentorial Fig. 558.—The lobes of the mesial and tentorial surfaces of the left hemisphere. surface is the collater'al fissure. The area between the calloso-marginal fissure and the upper edge of the hemisphere belongs to the frontal lobe ; that bounded by the upturned end of the calloso-marginal fissure, the free border, the jjarieto-occipital, and the precuneal fissures is a part of the parietal; that between the parieto-occipital and the calcarine fissures is a portion of the occipital; and all below the level of the anterior limb of the calcarine is often as- signed to the temporal. But the part of the temporal mass which is anterior to the tip of the calcarine fissure and above the collateral fissure is better associated with the area ^vhich is bounded peripherally by the calloso- marginal, precuneal, and calcarine fissures, to which (with several other structures, which need not be mentioned at present) are given the names of limbic lobe and falciform lobe, the former from its forming a border for the calhjsum, the latter because the sweep of its curve is suggestive of a sickle. If we look at the hemisphere from below, we see parts of the temporal, limbic, frontal, and occipital lobes (Fig. 559). We have now before us the primary superficial divisions of the hemisphere, namely, the insula, the frontal lobe, the parietal lobe, the occipital lobe, the temporal lobe, and the limbic lobe, and are prepared to consider the subdivisions of each of them. These secondary parts are gyri, and are sepa- rated from each other by fissures. Gyri of the Insula.—The inmla or central lobe has five gyri, which radiate from the narrow lower part, like the folds of a fan from its handle (Fig. 5oG). They are separated from each other by simple fissures, 33 FiG.559»—The lobes of the left hemisphere, seen from below.THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. 514 and the lobe is margined at the sides and top by the circnhir fi^smre (fissura liini- tans iusuhe). FiG.56n.—The gyri and fissures of the external lobes of the left hemisphere. Frontal Gyri (Figs. 560-563).—On the convex surface of tlie frontal lobe are three ^/i.sfeiirt.i', two of which, the supo-ior and inferior frontal, have a general fore- FlG. 561.—The hemispheres viewed from above. The fissures are labelled on the left side, the gyri on the right. and-aft directi()n, and the third, the prcerntra/ (coninK^nly broken), is substantially parallel with the central fissure. By these fi.ssures the lobe is divided into four515 THE CEREBRUM. gyri : the first (m\)or\or) frontal, between the longitudinal fissure and the superior frontal; the second (aaiddle)//'ojfta/, between the superior and inferior frontal fissures ; the third (inferior) frontal, beneatii the inferior frontal fissure, capping the anterior limb of the Sylvian fissure ; and the precentral (anterior central, ascending frontal) between the precentral and central fissures. On the under surface the frontal lobe has tw^o principal fissures. The first runs parallel with the great longitudinal and close to it, and is called the olfactory fissure from its giving lodgement to the olfactory nerve and its bulb. The other, the supra-orbited, fissure, is very irregular, generally starting near the Sylvian fissure, coursing tbrward and then outward, and sending tifFshoots in various directions. The narrow gyrus between the longitudinal and the olfactory fissures is a continuation of the first frontal gyrus of the convex surface, the gyrns between Fig. 562.—The hemispheres viewed from below. The gjTi of the right hemisphere are labelled, the fissures of the left. this and the supra-orbital fissure is continuous with the second frontal of the con- vexity, and the residue of the surface is continuous with the third frontal. On the mesial surface the gyrus which begins under the front end of the callosum, and is bounded at first above, then behind, and then below by the calloso-marginal fissure, is continuous with the first frontal over the edge of the great longitudinal fissure. It is called the marginal gyrus from its situation. It really overlaps by a little the parietal region of the convex surface, and the cen- tral fi.ssure appears as a notch in its hindmost part. A vertical fissure marks off a squarish area in this region, called the paracentred gyrus, because it is continu- ous with the gyri before and behind the central fissure of the convexity. Parietal Gyri (Figs. 560-563).—The parietal lobe does not ajjpear on the under surface. On the outer surface is the intreiparietal fi^^^ure, which starts near the Sylvian, passes up a short distance, and then swings back and runs almost516 THE CEREBBO-SPINAL AXIS. parallel with the longitudinal. As has already been seen, the upturned end of the Sylvian fissure is witliin tlie parietal lobe. The gyri are the pod-central (poste- rior central, ascending parietal) just behind the central fissure ; the xupcrior parietal, above tlie intraparietal fissure; the supra-mare/inal, aV)ove tlie hind part of the Sylvian fissure and arching over its end ; and the a)i(/nlar, which occupies the remainder of the area, and is at the lower, rear corner of the lobe. Continuous with the lateral surface over the edge of the longitudinal fissure is the mesial surface of the parietal lobe ; but it has less width tlian the external surface, inasmuch as the calloso-marginal fissure does not end coincidently with the central, but a little to its rear, and the dilFerence makes an addition to the frontal lobe by subtraction from the expected domain of the parietal. The mesial parietal gyri make a four-sided area, called the precuneus, from its relation to the wedge-shaped occipital gyrus adjoining, and "quadrate lobule" from its squarish shape. Occipital Gyri (Figs. 560-563).—The convex area of the occipital lobe is con- ventionally divided into three gyri by two fissures; but these are very inconstant and irregular, and the typical arrangement is apparently not yet discovered— Fig. 563.—The mesial and tentorial surfaces of the left liemisphere, showing the gyri. The fissures have been named in Fig. 55S. certainly it is not agreed upon by the anatomists of the largest observation. The triangular form of the mesial occipital surface has led to its being named cuneus (" wedge "). It is continuous with the convex surface over the edge of the longi- tudinal fissure. Temporal Gyri (Figs. 560, 562, 563).—The temporal (temporo-sphenoidal) lobe is marked I)y three fissures, which have a general fore-and-aft direction, two of them appearing on the lateral surface, and being called I'espectively the first or superior temporal or parallel fismre (the latter name from its relation to the pos- terior limb of the Sylvian fissure) and the second ov inferior temjjoral Assure. The third temporal fissn)-e is largely on the line between the lateral and under surfaces. The front half of the collateral fissure separates the temporal from the limbic lobe, and its rear half lies in the hind part of the temporal. The temporal gyri are the first (superior), the second, (middle), and the third (inferior) on the outer surface, and, on the base or tentorial surface, the suhcollateral, which is beneath the collateral fissui-e, and the subcalcarine, which lies between the calcarine fissure and the rear of the collateral. Limbic Gyri (Figs. 562, 563).—The limbic lobe consists primarily of the eal- losal gyrus, which arches over the callosum, and the continuation of this which courses forward on top of the temporal lobe, and is known as the hippocampal, or517 THE CEREBRUM. uncinate, gyrus. The first name of the latter gyrus comes from its relation to a structure which is seen in the middle horn of the lateral ventricle ; the second refers to its hook-like distal end. But, in addition, there are included in this lobe other parts, dissimilar in appearance and errant from the structural character, which we associate with the idea of a lobe of the brain. They are the lateral half of the septum lucidum, the dentate gyrus, the fornix, the stria; longitudinales of the callosum, and the peduncles of the callosum, and have been grouped with the great gyri just named on grounds of morphology and embryology, rather than from considerations based upon adult structure. In the limbic lobe are the ca/losal fissure, previously described, and the Iiippo- campal fissure, which marks the upper boundary of the hippocampal gyrus. Fig. 564.—Diagram to show position which fissures of mesial and tentorial surfaces would occupr if pro- jected in a horizontal plane sidewise to the outer surface. (F. H. G.) extending from the back of the splenium of the callosum into the embrace of the hook of the gyrus. Seemingly lodged in the hip])ocampal fissure is a long slender roll of gi'av substance, notched upon its exposed surface, and called the dentate gyrus (fascia dentata). It begins behind the splenium, receiving here the strife longitudinales of the callosum, runs to the end of the hippocampal fissure, and terminates by bending up over the uncus. Above it lies the fimbria, and between the two is a shallow cleft, called the fimbrio-dentate fissure. Relation of the Principal Lobes to the Parts of the Lateral Ventricle. The cavity of the fronted lobe is the anterior horn ; that of the parietal lobe is the body ; that of the occipital lobe is the posterior horn ; and that of the tem- poral lobe is the middle horn (Fig. 565). Situation of the Lobes in the Cranium. The frontal rests upon the orbital plates of the frontal bone; the temporal occupies the middle fossa of the base of the skull; the occipital is supported upon the tentorium, being thus separated from the cerebellum, which fills the posterior fossa; and the parietal is held up by the subjacent cerebral structures, and is covered by the sides and vertex of the skull. The Callosum. Almost every part of the cortex of one hemisphere is connected with the cor- responding part of the other hemisphere by nerve-fibres. In and near the medianTHE CEBEBBO-SPIXAL AXIS. 518 line of the cerebrum all of these fibres are compressed vertically and, to a less degree, antero-posteriorly into a solid mass. Consequently the fibres seem to radiate from each side of this condensed body—going out, up, down, forward, backward—to terminate in the gray matter at the perijihery of the hemisphere (Figs. 566, 567). The mass (with a slight addition, presently to be described) is the corpus cdUosum (" the hard body "), called, also, merely eallosuia. The middle of it can be seen by drawing the upper portions of the hemispheres ajiart, so as to widen the great longitudinal fissure, and looking directly downward into this enlarged cleft Fig. 566.—Diagram of coronal sec- tion of cerebrum to show course of fibres of callosum. (Testut.) Fig. 567.—liiu;;riuii of horizontal section of cerebrum to show course of fibres of callosum. (Testut.) (Fig. 561). It presents a free surface on top, in front, and l)ehind ; but its shape and size are not appreciated until sections of the cerebrum are made in various directions. A vertical median divi.sion of the cerebrum shows a cut surface of the callosum, which reveals its form and extent from before backward (Fig. 568). It is seen to be a long, thick, irregularly flattened arch. Its front end is curled back underneath, and is called the f/enu (" knee"). This thins out rapidly to an edge, the rostnviii ("beak"), which is connected with the front part of the wall of the third ventricle by a delicate plate, the basal irhitr coiiimissurc, or cojiula. The hind end, also, is rounded, its lower part being folded sharply forward, and is named the splenimn ("bandage"). The portion between the genu and splenium is the body. If the cerebral tissues which ovei'lie the callosum at the sides are cut away, it is found to be depressed along the middle line, and toTHE CEREBB UM. 519 rise at the sides into the substance of the cerel)riim (Fig. 569). The part of the O I- L aITE R a L*"TfsSU B ! ...FiO- 5fi8 -Parts of mesial and tentorial surlaces of left liemisphere, showing callosum in sagittal sertinn ;"^'^?!"p?;r;L''^,^Sed^fr-^:S-S^^^^ callosum which curves forward on each side from the genu into the frontal lobe IS called the/o*-ce/js anterior or minor; and that which projects backward in a Fig. 569.—Upper surface of callosum, tli._- .jv._ rl\ ing parts cut away. (Testut.) corresponding manner from each side of the splenium into the occipital lobe is known as the forceps jjosterior or major. Between the two forceps of each sideTHE CERHBRO-SPISAL AXIS. •520 is a plate, which extend? laterally into the temporal lobe, and is named the tapdum ('•' mat"). On the upper free snriaee of the callosum some small bimdles of fibres run length-wise, and from this fact are called dri(€ longitudinak-s longitudinal stripes " ). They are in two sets on each side : a median, which lies close to the central depression; and a lateral, which is lodged in the callosal fissure, and is named taiia ieda (•• the concealed band " ), from its being covered up bv the cal- losal gyrus. These bundles diverge in front along the inner boundarv of the anterior perforated spaces, constituting the pednneks of the caRosum, and are lost in the beginning of the Sylvian fissures. Behind they are traced into the back part of the hippoeampal gyri. The lore-and-afr median meamrement of the callosum is about five inches; its depth behind is nearly an inch, in front a little less. liS. D/Q.—^Kesmjh iiOTrmg associanoa-SbreS uf lie henusplieTe. {Tesrni-) The callosum forms the roof of the lateral ventricles, the tapetum covering in the pctstericir and middle horns. As the fibres of the callosum radiate to the cortex of the hennsphere, they interlace with those of the great eoltmins ascending from the lower levels of the encephalon, and the two sets tt^ether constitute the chief bulk of the white sub- stance of the cerebrum. But there are also unnumbered bundles of fibres which connect near or remote gyri, as shown in Fig. d~0. They are called association jihres. The Fornix (,Tigs. -571, 568, 572). In the median section of the encephalon there is seen below the callosum and attached to the back part of its lower stirface a white body, \Thich curves forward and downward, then downward, and then downward and backward to the under surface of the brain, where it seems to double upon itself in a tight loop, and then to oonrse upward, backward, and a little outward to the thalamus, in which it is lost. This is a part of the fornix arch "), the remainder requiring another dissection for its exhibition. The callosum and all the structures above it having been removed, we ca.n look down uj>on the floor of the lateral ventricles, and thus obtain a view of the upper surfec-e of the fornix. It is now perceived to be bilaterally symmetrical. A little of the anterior, descending pan is seen in this view, and just behind this the two halves are joined together for a short distance. Trac-ed backward, however, the bands diverge, swing off to the sides, and dis- appear at the upper ends of the middle horns of the ventricles. Cutting away the roof of these comua, we find the bands following the curve of these cavities, and521 THE rEEEBEUII, ■ . / - 'Jreea tbcee pante 'of Ae 'diT-erging ibainds "vrMeii Be ana itiie fcodiee of ----- is .gtr-T^'-l^-:! i. --iir layer iffibires. lliie fiaal erf liie foimiK-wMela ¥te..f^—ffllanriof iQielliiitsEBlxeiitrjc^iii,. v'li iiji jiJl iudt jjjt T£ai> oi uit eorpnEStn The ifnuBsSiBir m im tfihe aagbl jiorta. ©aDtefl (EdOilmn^ ifcn^cKte lihE pcsiliitm of 12ie jposteriar .carmia. (TeEtm. i 13 Uline diirect iCEDmioira iraf ItJae twio lateral IbomSles is 5te ; itibe poTtioaa im ; - _ i.2Tiilair sheet'Donmecteg tfe ffjia. US.—SDSBSEEm ^af TtihnUBmiTK tTCTFTTTir :E!n3 ibiEfTpQCBiiirpaJ lUJi rm. nf xiptrt EiSe, sseh frrrm miflSle Trnp. i, ■msiemm ttrmtigrife'gf itihuHBimips:: S. titmaie lof Thcia a-terr:: S. oompnB alhicKiK : i. imteriiir jnTlHT dI larnix;:; a, :aiDffiai3ar incnmimHsm'ei;, iboay -D-f ffomis;:; T, ptstemcir piltBir of ifanmx:: S. iimhnB : P., agntete gyms. (KEltan.l ibe lajTO; i: '.: :: ■ f iSae feoiy aaad postieriior jallair is Ae j^mifneL, ©(HpiBB fin' " ' . : J ■ ■ ^flT''''i); Ae Klitle JkaaoTas pTofccsed ibj tibe albrrapit^ rei'dsrsal en' : -: . r.teiior pifflbirr: at tikie liase-of tlaefeaiQ aire tlhe leoT^522 THE CEBEBBO-SPINAL AXIS. pora albicantla (" wliitish bodies"), otherwise called corpoi'a mammillaria ("teat- like bodies"). The upward-passing cord from the corpus albicans of each side to the corresponding thalamus is known as the bundle of Vicq-cVAzip-. Thus it appears that the fornix is a fore-and-aft commissure, ])ursuing a cir- cuitous course from the base of the brain in the region of the thalami to the descending horns of the lateral ventricles. Each lateral half of the fornix is principally devoted to the association of the parts on its own side ; but each also has, through the lyra, a connection with the corresponding organs on the opposite side. The Anterior Commissure (Fig. 573). Directly in front of the anterior pillars of the fornix a rope-like bundle of nerve-hbres runs across from the front part of one temporal lobe to the correspond- ing part uj)on the opposite side. It describes in its course a large curve with its Fig. f)73.—Anterior commissure, left lialf, viewed from above. (Testut.) convexity forward and a little upward. It passes through the lenticular nuclei, and finally spreads out in the temporal lol>es. This is the anterior commissure. The Septum Lucidum. Occupying the space between the under surface of the callosum and the upper surface of the fornix is a structure, called the septum lueidum (" the clear parti- tion") (Fig. 568). It forms the dividing wall between the lateral ventricles. It consists of two layers of nervous tissue, enclosing a small, perfectly closed cavity, a mere crevice, which has no communication with any of the chambers of the encephalon. This hollow space is formed bv a jjrocess of vacuolation, which means substantially that the middle ]Kirt of the single thick plate, of which the septum originally consisted, was withdrawn by gradual al)sorption, leaving in its stead a (^hink, which is the carifi/ of the septum lucidum. (Fig. 577). This si)ace is. occupied by a little serous fluid. The wall next to the cavity is gray, but is white on the outside—that is, next to the lateral ventricle. The GanglIxV of the Hemispheke. Embedded in the substance of the hemisphere are several masses of gray mat- ter, which seem upon casual inspection to be detached collections, quite indejiend- ent of the cortex. On careful examination, however, they are found to be con- tinuous with the superficial gray substance, and even with each other. They areTHE CEREBRUM. 523 the caudate nucleus, lenticular nucleus, claustrum, and amygdaloid nucleus, or amygdala (Fig. 574). The caudate nucleus and the lenticular nucleus have commonly been described Fig. 574.—Diagram to show the continuity of the gray of the basal ganglia of the cerebral hemispheres, the cortex, and the lower segments of the cerebro-spinal axis. (,F. H. G.) as parts of a single body, called corpm striatum ("striped body"), on account of the peculiar, striped appearance of the surfaces resulting from its section ; but description is facilitated by treating them as independent structures. The caudate Fig. 57.5.—Right lateral ventricle opened from its mesial side, ^.amygdala. C, caudate nucleus. S, sur- cingle. V, cavity of ventricle. 1, parieto-occipital fissure. 2, calcarine fissure. (Dalton.) nucleus presents a free surface in the floor of the lateral ventricle, and hence is sometimes spoken of as the intraventricular portion of the corpus striatum ; the lenticular nucleus does not appear at all in the ventricle, and, consequently, is524 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. occasionally referred to as the extraventricular portion of the corpus striatum. The claustrum is a plate of gray substance, embedded between the lenticular nucleus and the insula. The amygdaloid nucleus is a collection of gray matter near the apex of the temporal lobe. The Caudate Nucleus. The caudate (" tailed ") nucleus protrudes into the cavity of the lateral ven- tricle at the fore part of the i\oor, the anterior horn curving forward and outward around its most prominent ])ortion (Fig. 57(3). The front end is rounded, and faces upward, forward, and inward. From this large beginning the nucleus diminishes in size as it is traced backward, and hence the most conspicuous part of it is pear- shaped. But the stem of the pear—the tail or cauda, which gives its name to Fig. 576.—Lateral and third ventricles from above. The fornix and velum interpositnm have been removed. EPI., epiphysis. M. C, middle commissure. P. C, posterior commissure. (Testut.) the nucleus—stretches backward and outward as a slender prolongation through the l)ody of the ventricle to the rear end, and thence in a swee])ing curve into the middle horn and even to its extremity, clinging to the roof of the cornu (Fig. 575). It thus describes almost a circle, the tip of it reaching a jioint nearly underneath the blunt beginning. As it embraces in its loop a considerable mass of brain-tissue, it has been named the surcingle. It is not of regular outline, but is alternately and unevenly constricted and enlarged (Fig. 578). The caudate nucleus ends in the amygdala at the front end of the temjjoral lobe. Along the inner border of the caudate nucleus is a band of fibres, which may fairly be regarded as its projier edge. It is called the frenia semicircularis (" the half-circle ribbon ") (Figs. 576, 550). It accompanies the tail of the nucleus in the I'oof of the middle horn even to the amygdala. In the body of the ventricle it is covered by the vein of the corpus striatinn.THE CEREBRUM. 525 The Lenticular Nucleus. ANTERIOR PILLARS OF FORNIX CLAUS- TRUM POSTERIOR PILLAR OF FORNIX In order to obtain an adequate view of the lenticular (" lens-like ") nucleus, it is necessary to make horizontal and vertical sections through that part of the substance of the hemisphere in which it is located. By such means we learn that this gray mass lies at the outer side of the caudate nucleus, but is for the most part separated from it by a thick j^late of white nervous tissue, the internal capsule. Its shape is that of an irregular, three-sided pyramid (Figs. 577, 578). It is divided into three unequal portions by two layers of white matter, the internal and external medullary lamince. The outer portion is the larg- est, is of a deep, red hue, is streaked at its inner part with nearly horizontal, white lines, and is called the putamen ("husk"). The other por- tions are yellowish-gray, and together constitute the globus jjallidus (" the pale sphere"). The lenticular nucleus is not entirely embedded in the brain substance : a portion of it is at the surfoce of the base of the cerebrum, at the outer side of the chiasma and behind the roots of the olfactory lobe, in the anterior perforated space. The internal capsule does not wholly separate the lenticular and caudate nuclei, the two 1 • -J. 1 1 1 1 Fig. 577.—Horizontal section (>11'lt l.iinisphere through the basal masses being unitea below ana gangUa, viewed from above, ex.. caudate nucleus. (Testut.) in front of it, and being further connected by thin cords of gray matter, which cross the capsule. The claustrum is fused with tlie lenticular nucleus at the anterior perforated space ; the amygdala is united with its hind and lower part; and through the amygdala the nucleus is continuous witli the cortex of the hemisphere. From these facts concerning the association of the gray masses of the hemisphere, we see that there is good reason for regarding them as thickenings of the peripheral gray . substance. The Anterior Perforated Space is situated at tlie base of the brain at the point from which the Sylvian fissure starts. The optic tract lies obliquely behind it, mesially it is continuous with the lamina cinerea, in front is the orbital surface of the frontal lobe. It is marked by numerous holes, through which pass blood- vessels to the lenticular nucleus. Fie. 562 shows it on each side of the cliiasm. The Claustrum (Fig. 577). Just outside of the lenticular nucleus is a thick stratum of white tissue, called the external capsule, which will be described later. Between this external cap- sule and the white substance which furnishes the backing of the gray of the in.sula is a thin lamina of gray tissue, called the claustrum (" barrier"). Its sur- faces are directed respectively toward the insula and the lenticular nucleus. In526 THE CEEEBRO-SPIXAL AXIS. horizoutal or veitical section it^ outliue i? uudiilating. The adherent tissues Wine dissected away, it is seen to be of trianguhir shajie. with its apex above : and its base, which is its thickest part, is found to reach to the surface of the brain at the anterior perforated space, where it is uniteil to the lenticular nucleus. Fig. oT?,—Longitndinal section through the entire right caadate nucleus, viewed from mid line. The plane of the section is not perpendicular, but has"followed the surcingle outward. C. caudate nucleus. CC. front part of callosum. F. fi\.iutal lobe. O. occipital lobe. T. temporallobe, S. surcingle. 1. i inner and middle zones of leuticnlar nucleus. S. internal capetile. Obserre the continuity of the gray substance, i Dallon. i The dmdory hibcs, the opf.ic b-acU, and the chiasma will be considered in con- nection with the cranial nerves. The Amygdaloid Nucleus i Figs. 581, 586, 575). This ganglion, . r-Ki w ise called • ,. .^^ /'z/a. is a mass at the tip of the temiwral lobe, due to a thickening of the cortex of this region. It is of sufficient size to cause a protrusion into the rexif of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle, at whose distal end it receives the extremity of the surcingle. It is continuous in front and above with the lenticular nucleus. The Velum Interpositum. Although it is a part of the parietes of the third ventricle, the rehtm inter- posttttm interposed veil "» requires description here because its fringed edges, the choroid pfexust-s. appear in the floor of the lateral ventricles, and c:tnnot be understood except in connection with the velum. It ^Nnll be recalled (^Figs. 549, 552) that the pia of the nnder side of the developing first brain-vesicle is brought by the backwanl and downward gre>^vth of that segment directly in contact with the pia of the upper surtace of the second brain-vesicle. The combination of the two layers of pia constitutes the velum interpositum—^the veil placed between the prosencephalon and the thalamencephalon. It lies just beneath the part of the fornix which appears in the bodies of the lateral ventricles, and just above the cavity of the third ventricle, resting at the sides upon the upper surfaces of the thalami. In the floor of each lateral ventricle, between the fimbria, which makes the edge of the fornix, and the ttenia semicireularis. which margins the caudate nucleus, is a narrow strip of the parietes of the first encephalic vesicle in which there is an entire absence of nervous tissue, and. consequently, the wall of the vesicle in this area consists merely of endyma and pia. The fimbria and tcvnia are prolonged from the body of the lateral ventricle into its middle horn : and the wall Ijetween them here is like that between them in the body of the ventricle—merely pia and endyma in close contact, the nervous tissue which once existed in this narrow area having527 THE CEREBRVM. loru, icate <]i.'^appcarod. Tlie liiglily vascular pia, wherever it covers nervous tissue, sends l)ranches of its vessels into the surface layers of this tissue ; but along this line, which extends from the porta (foramen of Monro) to the tip of the middle the pia lies against no such resistant material, being applied closely to the de endyma. Its branches, becoming dilated and prolonged, j)iish the filmy serous membrane in- ward, so that an irregular, clumpy mass of vessels, covered everywhere with endyma, encroaches upon the space originally devoted to the ^•entric- ular cavity. This vascular structure is called the choroid, plexm {" leather-like network") (Fig. 571). It is convenient to speak of the "intru- sion " of the choroid plexus into the ventricular cavity; but as the cavity is limited by the endyma, and no breach is made in this membrane, the expression is not strictly correct, the fact being that the wall of the cavity is bent inward, and the contained space is by so much diminished. All of the choroid plexuses are explained in the same way. It is to be noted that, while the choroid plexus of the body of the lateral ventricle is derived from the velum, the choroid plexus of the posterior horn is derived from the pia which clothes the limbic lobe. The diagram (Fig. 580) will aid one in understanding this. In it the velum is shown as a triangle marked with transverse red lines; the choroid plexuses are in solid red ; the taemus semicirculares are in Ijlue ; and the outline of the fornix and fimbrite is indicated by broken lines. We are looking down upon these objects. On the right of the diagram the tsenia and fimbria, ^\ ith the intervening choroid plexus, are represented as straightened out, as if the temporal lobe and Fig. 579.—Diagram of transverse section of axis where a ixjrtion of the nervous wall hasdisajiyjeared, allowing pill and endyma to come together. Fig. .')80.—Diagram to show relations of taenia, fimbria, and choroid plexus in body of lateral ventricle and in middle horn. On the right side the parts are straightened out, on the left they are curved in their natural shape. (F. H. G.) the adjacent part of the limbic lobe had been stretched Ijackward. On the left the parts are shown with the curve naturally described by the middle horn. In making the curve the parallelism Vjetween the two nervous bands is substantially528 THE CEBEBRO-SPIXAL AXIS. maintained, but the ttenia gets above tlie fimljria. The middle horn is much nearer to the mesial than to the outer surface of the temporal lobe, so near, in fact, that the fimbria is covered with pia. In the region of the velum the choroid plexus is formed by the pia which makes the velum ; beyond the hind edge of the velum the plexus is made from the pia immediately on the surface of the brain. The crevice through which the invagination of the pia is effected is called the transverse fissure, or the choroid fissure ; and it extends from the porta (foramen of ^louro) nearly to the distal end of the middle horn on each side. In the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle (Fig. 581) the inner wall, which slopes outward toward the floor, presents a prominent protrusion, caused by the pushing in of the entire wall of the cavity at this point in correspondence with the depression upon the tentorial surface of the hemisphere, which we know as Fig. 581.—Horizontal section of left hemisphere, opening the middle horn ■ if tin- lateral ventricle. The upper segment, containing the roof of the horn, has been turned off to the left. iTestut.) the calcarine fissure. The elevation is well called the ccilenr {" spur "), although a less suggestive and helpful name, hippocampus minor (" the smaller sea-horse ") is more commonly used. Just above the ealcar is another prominence, the bulb, produced by the posterior forceps of the callosum. The roof of this cornu, as stated previously, is furnished by the tapetuin of the callosum. Finally, the floor is triangular, has a convex surface, owing to the intrusion of the wall cau.sed by the formation of the collateral fissure, and is called the eminentia collateraUs. The posterior horn gets its peculiar curve from the intrusion of the parieto-occipital fissure on the mesial surface of the hemisphere (Fig. 558). In the middle horn of the lateral ventricle the parietes are the interned (mesial) 7redl, the jioni', and the roq/'(Figs. 575, 578, 581, 582). The inner wall swells out- ward, so that it is seen in large part in a view from above ; the floor is roundedTHi: CEREBRUM. 529 lip in the middle like a turnpiked road ; and the roof, which jn'esents the broadest surface of this prismatic cavity, is slightly arched. The bulging of the mesial wall corresponds to the depression in the cortex, which is named hippocampal fissure, and itself is called the Jilpjjocamjms ("sea-horse")—sometimes major {" the greater") being added. This peculiar elevation widens as it extends toward the apex of the horn, and terminates in a blunt indented end, called the pes hippocampi {" the foot of the hippocampus ") from its resemblance to the paw Fig. 582.—Semidiagrammatic coronal section through the middle horn of the right lateral ventricle. We look upon the hind surface of the front segment, and forward into the cavity. (F. H. G.) of some animal. The convexity of the tloor results from the bending inward of this part of the-parietes of the cavity caused by the collateral fissure, anterior to the part which causes the prominence in the floor of the posterior horn. Attached to the roof, which is made by the tapetuni, are the tail of the caudate nudeus and the tcenia semicircv.laris, side by side, as they were in the body of the ventricle from which they are traced, and ending in front in the amygdala. Along the top 34THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. 530 of the hippocampus courses the fimbria, continued from the posterior pillar of the fornix, of which organ it has become the sole representative. Between the Fig. 583.—Arterial supply of the lateral surface of the cerebral hemisphere. (Testut.) Fig. 584.—Arterial supply of the mesial and tentorial surfaces of the cerebral hemisphere, (Testut.) Fig. 585.—Arterial supply of the base of the cerebral hemisphere. (Testut.) fimbria and the ttenia the choroid ple.vus: juts into the horn, dangling, as it were, from the junction of the mesial wall and the rf)of. Arteries of the Hemisphere.—The cerebral hemispheres are supplied withTHE REGION OF THE THIRD VENTRICLE. 531 blood bv the anterior, middle, and j^osterior cerebral arteries, ■which have been described in a previous chapter. It is only necessary here to refer to that account f(ir details of course and distribution, and to call attention to Figs. 583-585, which show most impressively the regions to which each of these vessels furnishes nourishment. THE REGION OF THE THIRD VENTRICLE—THE THALAMEN- CEPHALON. The third ventricle comprises the parts developed from the second encephalic vesicle and, in addition, the aula of the first vesicle—the latter constituting the front and upper portion, as has been related in the early part of this chapter. The third ventricle (Figs. 586-588) is a narrow, deep, median crevice, on a plane distinctly below that of the body of the lateral ventricle. It opens at its Fig. 586.—Coronal section of the hemispheres through the middle commissure, M. C. C. N., caudate nu- cleus in the roof of the middle horn of the right lateral ventricle. (Testut.) upper, outer and front angles into the portse (foramina of Monro), by which com- munication is established with the lateral ventricles ; and high up on its hind wall it is continuous with the aqueduct. Its lateral boundaries are made by the thalami; its roof is furnished by the median part of the velum interpositum ; it is bounded in front by the anterior pillars of the fornix and the lamina cinerea ; behind are the epijjhysis (pineal gland), the posterior commissure, and the aperture of the aqueduct; its floor, reckoning from behind forward, is made by the tegmenta of the crura cerebri, the posterior perforated sjjace, the corpora albicantia, and the tuber cinereum with the infundilnilum and hypophysis (])itu- itary body) ; crossing it from side to side is the middle commissure ; and hanging down into it from the roof are the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. As the thalamencephalon is intimately connected with the mesencephalon, it is necessary to present a brief description of the latter at this stage of our study. The mesencephalon is the istJimvn between the hisrher and lower parts of the brain. It is perforated from end to end by the aqueduct. In front of tliis passage are the cntra ceretjri ("legs of the cerebrum "), two great columns which are diverging, upwai'd continuations of the white substance from the pons and cerebellum. The ventral part of each crus is called cnista, the dorsal part tegmentum. Behind the aqueduct the material is arranged in four distinct knobs, the corpora quadrigemina.532 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. The Thalami (Figs. 587, 588). The thalami, often called thalami optici (" oi^tic couches "), are large masses of gray substance of irregular shape, presenting mesial, upper, and back surfaces, Fig. 587.—Median section through the third and fourth ventricles. Left half. M. C, middle commissure. (Testut.) whicli are free, and under and outer surfaces, which are attached, being blended with contiguous parts of the brain. The free surtaces are covered with a tliin layer of white nervous tissue. Tlie mesial surface of each is flattened, and forms Fig. 588.—Third vuutrirle frmn above. The upper surface of the thalami, the epiphysis, and the corpora quadrigemina are seen. (Testut.) a side wall of the third ventricle from floor to roof. The boundary between the mesial and upper sui-faces is marked by a white band, the stalk of the epiphysis, extending from the anterior pillar of the fornix in front to the epiphysis behind.533 THE REGION OF THE THIRD VENTRICLE. Along the mesial surface from tlie porta to the aqueduct is a groove, the sidcvs of Monro (usually but faintly marked), indicating the line of junction of the dorsal and ventral zones^ into which morphologists divide the encephalon. The upper surface is divided into a postero-internal portion and an antero- external portion by an oblique groove. Upon the former of these areas lies the velum interpositiim, whose free edge, the choroid ])lexus of the lateral ventricle, rests upon the latter area. A portion of this surface beyond the plexus is often, perliaps usually, seen in the floor of the lateral ventricle, separated from the caudate nucleus by the ttenia semicii'cularis. In the diagrams (Figs. 549 and 552), which represented the first and second vesicles developing separately, the tlialamus manifestly could have no place in the lateral ventricle; and it is held by AVilder that it is always absolutely excluded from this cavity. At the extreme front of this surface is a rounded end, the anterior tubercle. Behind at the inner side of the thalamus is another tubercle, the j^ulvinar ("couch"), Avhich extends downward, and occupies the posterior surface. At the lower and outer portion of the posterior surface are the two corpora genicidata ("the bended-knee bodies"), internal and external (Fig. 597), connected behind with tlic corjiora quadrigemiua by the pjo.'sterior and anterior brachia, and in front continued into the optic tract. The outer surface and anterior end are closely related to the internal capsule, into which they send many fibres. The under surface rests upon a forward extension of the tegmentum. THIRD VENTRICLE Fig. 589.—Coronal section through the lateral and third ventricles, showins the velum interpositum push- ing the choroid plexuses (C. P.) into the lateral ventricles above the thalami. (Semidiagrammatic; (Testut.) Tlie great bulk of the thalamus is gray substance, which is divided into outer and inner nvclei by a thin, curved, white layer. The two thfilami ai'e connected by a gray band, the middle (soft) corinnis.wre, which crosses the third ventricle nearly at its centre. They are also united by the floor of the ventricle. The roof of the third ventricle is formed by the relum iixterpositum (Fig. 589), ^v]li(■h has already l>een described. The endyma lining the ventricular cavity is reflected from the tlialami onto the under surface of the velum along the lines marked by the peduncles of the epiphysis (pineal body). From the under sur- face of the velum hang the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle, covered, of course, by the endyma. Authors differ widely concerning the extent of the floor of the third ventricle. Some include every ])art of the walls excepting the sides and roof, thus making the floor embrace all of the jiarts on or near tlie middle line below the plane of the stalks of the c])iphysis (pineal peduncles), which indicate the upjiermost lateral boun- daries. Others apply the name " floor" oidy to the structures extending from the location of the optic chiasma back to the opening of the aqueduct, considering all from the chiasma to the junction of the pineal peduncle with the fornix asTHE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. 534 anterior wall. The latter method is pursued here, although one sees specimens which justify the subdivision of this floor-space so that a posterior wall of con- siderable extent may be described. From the aperture of the aqueduct floor of the third ventricle slopes quite sharply downward and forward, and is made by (1) the tegmenta of the mesen- cephalon, (2) the posterior perforated space, (3) the corpora all)icantia, and (4) the tuber cinereum, whose central part is the infundibulum, to which the hypophysis is attached. The tegmenta abut abruptly upon the ventricular cavity. The surface which they present is slightly convex, and is covered with a continuation of the gray matter which surrounds the aqueduct. This sheet of gray is extended forward beyond the limits of the tegmenta, and forms the greatest part of the floor. Furthermore, it rises for a little distance upon the mesial surface of the thalami, and thus covers the lower part of the anterior pillars of the fornix, where they lie against these bodies. The part of the floor in front of the teg- menta presents a free under surface, which is visible on the base of the brain. This area is rhombic, and margined in its rear portion by the diverging crura cerebri, in its front by the converging optic tracts. The surface area included by these structures is called the interpeduncular space, from its being, in part, between the cerebral crura or peduncles. It is comjDosed almost wholly of gray sulistance, and is a bond of union between the two thalami. In its hind portion is the posterior perforated space ; in its fore part is the tube)- cinereum (" ashen knob"). Between these two the corpora cdhicantia ("whitish bodies") are inserted. The Posterior Perforated Space, so called from its situation and appearance, is a forward continuation of the gray matter in the wall of the aqueduct, and stretches laterally between the diverging crura. Its numerous apertures give passage to small vessels. The Tuber Cinereum is continuous behind with the posterior perforated space, and in front with the lamina cinerea, -which forms a part of the anterior wall of the third ventricle. The central part of the tuber cinereum is prolonged down- ward in the shape of a cone, the infund- ibulum, Avhose funnel-like cavity is a part of the third ventricle (Fig. 590). To the apex of the infundibulum is attached the hypophysis (" the growth underneath") also called the pituitary gland, from the erroneous notion, form- erly entertained, that it secreted the mucus (pituita), which is discharged from the nose. This body is lodged in the sella Turcica of the sphenoid bone, in which it is firmly held by the dura, the fibrous membrane lining the brain- case. The liypophysis is comjiosed of two parts, essentially different in origin and histological character. The poste- rior portion is the smaller, and is a process from the ventricular wall, at first being hollow and communicating with the ventricle, but ultimately losing its cavity, and consisting of nervous matter intermingled with much fibrous tissue. The anterior portion is much the larger, and ]mrtly embraces the posterior. It is derived from the jirimitive oral cavity, and its structiu'e bears a resemblance to that of the thyroid body. The hypo- physis has been found greatly enlarged in many cases of giantism, and hence has been supposed to sustain a relation to the stature of the individual. The Corpora Albicantia (Figs. 572, 586, 587), situated al)0ut midway of the floor of the third ventricle, are parts of the anterior pillars of the fornix. The IN FUN Dl- 3ULUM CIRCULAR SINUS Fig. mo.—SagiUal section through the hypo- physis, mesial surface of right segment. (Testut.)535 THE REGION OF THE THIRD VENTRICLE. pillars are traced down from their beginning in the lateral ventricles, form a part of the front wall of the third ventricle, curve backward in their descent, and per- forate the floor of the third ventricle near its centre, thus interrupting what, without them, would be the complete continuity of the expanse of gray matter in this region. Each pillar then turns abruptly on itself, forming tlie bunch which is named corpus albicans, and extends upward and outward to the thalamus of its own side, in the substance of which it disappears. In composition these bodies are white nervous tissue enclosing gray. They are connected with the crura cerebri by white fibres embedded in the gray material of the floor. The cord which extends from the corpus albicans to the thalamus, and which is called the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr, though seemingly a prolongation of the fornix, is now thought to have no histological continuity with it. The anterior icall of the third ventricle consists in its lower part of the lamina cinerea, otherwise called lamina terminalis. The first of these names im])lies that it is composed of gray matter, and the second that it is the uttermost boundary of the third ventricle. It is continuous below with the tuber cinereum, which it joins behind the chiasma, or optic commissure, and it blends at its sides with the anterior perforated spaces. Together with the tuber cinereum and posterior per- forated space it makes up the basal gray comrnismre. Its upper border is connected in the middle with the rostrum of the callosura by the basal white commissure, and laterally is continuous with the gray substance of the gyri of the under sur- face of the frontal lobes. It passes in front of the anterior commissure, which consequently lies between it and the anterior pillars of the fornix. The upper part of the anterior wall is supplied by the anterior pillars of the fornix. The lower portion of each pillar is close to the thalamus of the same side, and is covered, as is the neighboring surface of the thalamus, by a thin layer of gray matter, which is a lateral extension of the basal gray commissure. On each side between the anterior pillar of the fornix and the thalamus is the porta (foramen of ^lonro), an opening with a well-defined, oval margin. This is the develoj)ed condition of the lumen of the little sprout, Avhich budded from the upper, front part of the wall of the first encephalic vesicle, and expanded at its distal end into the body of the lateral ventricle. It connects the third ventricle with the lateral. There is no passage directly from one lateral ventricle to the other, because the third ventricle intervenes between the two portte. It is, how- ever, interesting to observe that the most nearly direct course between the cavities of the lateral ventricles is across the fore and upper part of the third ventricle— the portion which is developed from the aula, the first encephalic vesicle, from which the lateral ventricles themselves are derived. Each jiorta permits the passage of a prolongation of the choroid j)lexus of its lateral ventricle. The remaining jjortion of the wall of the third ventricle is found in the small space between the long stalk of the epiphysis (pineal peduncle) and the opening of the aqueduct. It may be called the rear zcall. The upper lip of the aperture of the acpieduct is formed by the anterior border of the quadrigeminal mass, at this point thickened and folded back, thus making a ridge, which stretches from side to side, and constitutes the posterior commissure. The fibres of this body apparently connect the thalami, and prol)ably also extend into the white substance of the hemispheres. Above the posterior commissure is the epiphysis (" the growth upon "), other- wise called conarium and pinecd gland, these last names being given on account of the fancied resemblance of the body to a pine cone. Epiphysis is the best of the names, because this object is an upgrowth from the second encephalic vesicle. At first it is hollow ; but it soon loses its connection with the ventricular cavity, and becomes filled with epithelial cells and particles of earthy material, called brain-sand. The ancients had a grotesque theory that the epiphysis is the favorite and peculiar abiding place of the human soul. Modern morphologists have shown it to be the homologue of the third eye which some rejjtiles possess. It pro- jects outside of the ventricle, and rests upon the two upper quadrigemina. It hasTHE CEBEBRO-SPINAL AXIS. 536 a double stalk on eacli side. OiK' of these is very short, and is connected witli tlie posterior commissure ; tlie other, already deseril)ed, extends from tlie epiphysis to the anterior pillar of the fornix, and indicates the upper, lateral boundary of the third ventricle. The walls of the third ventricle are so intimately l)lended at various points x/ith those of the lateral ventricles that it is impracticable to determine the exact line of union ; but a portion of it doubtless lies in the internal capsule. There is an luihrokcii contiiiaiti/ of gray matter from the lamina cinerea at the front of the third ventricle to the gray surrounding the central canal of the spinal cord. The lamina cinerea is connected in front not only with the callosum, l)ut also with the gyri of the frontal lobe, and at its sides it joins the anterior i)er- FiG. 591.—Diagram to show the continuity of the gray of the basal ganglia of the cerebral hemispheres, the cortex, and the lower segments of the cerebro-spinal axis. (F. H. G.) forated space, which is the surface area of the lenticular and caudate nuclei and the claustruin ; and these are connected with the gyri of tlie temporal lobe through the amygdala, which is fused with the lenticular nucleus. Keeping these facts in mind, it is easy to understand that the great ganglia are only local thickenings of the gray matter surrounding the cavity of the cerebro-spinal axis, which in the adult displays in the spinal cord the least change from the original condition. The Subthalamic Region.—The mass upon which the thalamus rests is made up mostly of a forward continuation of the tegmentum of the mesencephalon. Three layers are distingiiislied : the strafmn (Jormlc, which is superior; the zona incerta ("the uncertain zone"), a reticulated, fibrous collection, the origin of which is doubtful and its boundaries obscure; and the corpus ■mbthaJamiciim (" body under the thalamus "), derived from the locus niger, which lies between the tegmentum and crusta of the mesencephalon. Dorsal and mesial to the corpus subthalamicum is an extension of the red nucleus of the tegmentum. The sub- thalamic region thins out as it extends forward and outward, and finally becomes continuous with the anterior perforated space.THE REGIOX OF THE THIRD VENTRICLE. 537 NE OF IN- CAPSULE The Internal Capsule. A horizontal section through tlie lenticular nucleus at any but its lowest levels displays this great ganglion sui'rounded by a thick layer of white substance. The ])ortion of this enclosing material on the mesial side is the internal capsule, and that between the nucleus and the claustrum is the external capsule. The internal capsule (Figs. 577, 586, 578, 592), as seen in horizontal section, following the mesial surfaces of the lenticular nucleus, forms a bend with its con- vexity toward the middle line. The part at the angle is the genu ; that in front of it is the anterior segment ; and that behind is the ^wsterior segment. The anterior segment separates the lenticular nucleus from the caudate ; the posterior divides it from the thalamus ; and the genu comes up to the taenia semicircularis, pushing in between the caudate nucleus and the thalamus. The internal capsule is largely composed of fibres which run between the cortex of the hemisphere above and the crura cerebri below. But it has ingredients Avhich con- nect these ])SiYifi only indirectly. Some fibres enter it from the end, Avhich do not leave it, but plunge into the surrounding ganglia—the tlialamus, the caudate and lenticular nuclei. Others enter at its sides from the same gray masses, and emerge from the end. Certain fibres come to it from the subthalamic region, and still others from the hemis])here of the opposite side through the callosum. The general drift of its direction, however, is between the lowest and the highest centres of the cerebro-spinal axis—from below upward and outward. Tracing the fibres upward we find that, immediately on emerging from the capsule, they spread out in every direction toward the cortex, constituting the corona radiata (" the radiant crown "j. The anterior segment is chiefly composed of fibres coursing longitudinally between the thalamus and the cortex of the frontal lobe. The hind portion of the posterior segment is a continuation of the lemniscus, and the remaining por- tions are connected with the region of the cortex about the central (Rolaudic) fissure. At various places, particularly in its anterior part, the internal capsule is streaked \\ \t\\ cords of gray, which cross it between the caudate and lenticular nuclei. The External Capsule (Fig. 577), which is situated between the lenticular nucleus and the claustrum, is united to the internal capsule below and behind. It is composed of fibres contributed partly by the anterior commissure, and partly by the suljthalamic region. Diagrammatic Description of the Lowest Parts of the Brain.—Before entering upon the detailed study of the remaining structures of the brain, which are related to one another in a very intimate and complex manner, it is well to con- sider them in a schematic way, by which the principal features of their gross anatomy shall be presented clearly and form the groundwork for the more minute consideration of the subject (Fig. 593). This, in part, has been done on a pre- vious page, but may jirofitably be reviewed at this stage. The cerebral hemispheres and the jjarts in the region of the third ventricle, already described, are developed from the first and second encephalic vesicles. From the third vesicle is developed the mesencephalon, from the fourth the pons and cerebellum, and from the fifth the oblonirata. Fig. 592.—Diagram of the composition of the internal capsule. (Testut.)538 THE CEUEBTiO-SPINAL AXIS. The mcficncepJutlo)) is often eallt'd the istlimns of the brain, because it is the narrow neck by which the great cerebral mass above is connected with the struct- ures below. Its ventral part is shaped like two pillars converging to the pons, and is called the crura cerebri ; its dorsal protrudes in four tubercles, the corpora quadrigemina. Its cavity is the aqueduct. The cerebellum is a large, solid body, the second of the lirain-masses in size, and constitutes the dorsal portion of tiie wall of thi' fourth ventricle. It is con- nected above by the superior cerebellar peduncles with the ([uadrigemina ; in front by the middle cerebellar peduncles with the pons ; and below by the inferior cerebellar peduncles with the oblongata. The jjoji.s is situated between the isthmus above and the oblon- gata below, and forms the ventral ]iart of the wall of the fourth ventricle. It bulges in front and laterally, and runs back on each side into the middle cerebellar peduncle. Between the dorsal surface of the pons and the ven- tral surface of the cerebellinn is the upper half of the fourth ven- FiG. 593.—Diagram of thf parts of tlie enceplialon below , • i the thalami, left side. iriCle. Below the pons is the oblon- f/atd, developed from the fifth vesicle. It is shaped like an irregular, inverted, truncated cone. Below it is continuous with the spinal cord. The upper part of its cavity is the lower part of the fourth ventricle jn-oper, and the rest of it is tubular ami directly continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord. The columns of fibrous nervous tissue are chiefiy continued ujiward from the spinal cord through the oblongata, the pons, and tlie isthnuis, to the higher levels of the brain ; but some of them switch otf dor.-;ally to the cerebellum, thus con- stituting the inferior peduncle of that body. The gray nervous tissue, also, is continued upward from the cord, and a portion of it is thus connected with the highest collections of gray matter in the cei'ebrum ; but in the oblongata con- siderable masses are detached by the intrusion and crossing from one side to the other of large bundles of white nervous tissue, and at various points are found new collections of nerve-cells, which are not the representatives of any nuclei at lower levels. THE MESENCEPHALON: The Region of the Aqueduct. Next below the tlialaniencephalon comes the mesencephalon, otherwise known as the mid-bmin, from its situation, and as the isthmus cerebri, l)ecause it is the constricted bond of union between the parts which result from the develo]iment of the first and second encephalic vesicles and those which come from the fourth and fifth. Its direction is from before backward and a little downward. Viewed from below it displays a ventral sur&ce, which is marked by two short, thick, white columns, converging toward the pons, like the limbs of the letter V, ^md called the crura cerebri (" legs of the brain "), and also the cerebral peduncles ("little feet") (Fig. 596). Between the crura is a triangular area, already described as the hind part of the interpeduncular sjiace (see page 534). The dorsal surface is not visible until certain overlying structures have been removed. It then presents to view four prominent knobs, the corpora (jaadrif/emina (" four-twin bodies"), and the upper portion of the superior cerebellar peduncles (Fig. 597). The (pi-adrigemina are arranged in pairs, an upper (anterior) j^air, ^QUADRIGEMINA .SUPERIOR PEDUNCLE developed from third encephalic VESICLE DEVELOPED FROM FIFTH ENCEPHALIC VESICLE INFERIOR PEDUNCLE539 THE MESENCEPHALON. CORPORA QUADRIGEMINA LATERAL GROOVE sometimes called the natca, and a lower (posterior), known also as the tedcs. A median groove separates the right tubercles from the left, and ends above at the posterior commissure ; and the superior are divided from the inferior by a trans- verse gutter. At the outer sides the quadrigemina run upward and forward into the brachia (Fig. 597). A cross-section of the isthmus (Figs. 594, 595) shows that each lateral half is divided into two unequal parts by a band of nerve-cells, so deeply pigmented as to have received the name of loms niger (•'the black place"). Ventrally to this is the column of white nervous tissue whicli forms a side boundary to the interpeduncular space, and is called the crnsta (" crust"). Dorsally is a mass of mingled white and gray, the tegmentum ("covering"). At each border the locus niger comes to the surface at a groove, that which is mesial being the place of emergence of the third cranial nerve, and the other, called the lateral groove, runs from the internal geniculate body to a point between the superior and middle peduncles of the cerebellum. The crusta is largely composed of flat bundles of white tissue which present their edges at the free surface. The part of the crusta close to the locus niger is the stratum intermedium. The tegmentum extends from Fig. ; cephalon INTERPEDUNCULAR SPACE i94.—Transverse section . (Testiit.) LOCUS NIGER if the mesen- STRATUM INTERMEDIUM Fig. 595.—Transverse section through the anterior quadrigemina. (Testut, after Stilling.). the locus niger up to the level of the aqueduct, and above this plane is the lamina (ptadrigeinina, tqion which the corpora quadrigemina rest. The aqueduct is a small canal and is surrounded by a considerable thickness of gray, in which are embedded clusters of nerve-cells, which are connected with the roots of tlie third, fourth, and fifth cranial nerves. In the fore part of the tegmentum is a globular collection of cells, the i^ed nucleus, through which pass the roots of the oculo- motor (third) nerve. On the surface of the tegmentum above the lateral groove appears the external portion of the lemniscus. The anterior extremity of the540 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. tegmeiitum is convex, and slopes downward and forward, forniini; a jyart of tlie floor of the third ventricle. Upon this snrface is extended the forward continua- tion of the gray of tiie aqueduct. The locus niger can be traced backwartl to the upper margin of the pons, and forward to the corpora albicantia. The white around the I'ed nucleus is an extension of the greater part of the superior cere- bellar peduncle of the opposite side—decussation taking place across the middle line in the raphe. As a whole the white of the crura is a continuation of bundles from the internal capsule and subthalamic region. THE EPENCEPHALON. This segment of the brain comprises the parts developed from the fourth encephalic vesicle, namely, the pons and the cei'ebellum. The Pons. The pons, otherwise called pons Varord (" bridge of Varolius ") and tuber annu- lare (" annular ]M'otul)erance "), consists largely of white nervous tissue, the greater part of which is divided into two groups of bundles, according to the direction in which they run (Figs. 687, 596). One set courses nearly vertically from the mesen- cephalon to the oblongata, occupying the central portion of the pons; the other, mainly superficial to this, is disposed horizon- tally, and is seen at the front and sides, pro- jecting beyond the surface plane of the crura and the oblongata. The horizontal part gives the name to the whole, because it suggests the arch of a bridge connecting the lateral halves of the cerebellum. The ventral por- tion of the arch has the greatest vertical diameter, and the sides taper as they go dorsally, being smallest Avhere they enter the cerebellum, constituting the middle peduncles of this organ. By removing the cerebellum, a view is obtained of the dorsal aspect of the pons I x/ <MnpiST CERVICAL (Fig. 5!)7). Ou cach side is seen a sujierior ■ 1 '^^^^^^""^ peduncle of the cerebellum, running down- ward and outward from the quadrigemina. Fig. 596.—Ventral view of mesencephalon, -r, . ,i , ^• • pons, and oblongata. (Testut.) Jietwecn these two diverging mas.ses is stretched a flat, triangular jjlate, consisting of two layers of nervous tissue, the ventral being white, the dorsal gray. This structure is variously called the rahnda, the valve of Vieussens, and the ante- rior medullary velum. It forms the upper part of the dorsal wall or roof of the fourth ventricle. Cutting away the valvula, we look into the fourth ventricle, and see the upper portion of its ventral wall or floor, overlapped at its sides by the mesial borders of the superior cerebellar peduncles. In the entire middle line of this triangular area is a groove, close to which and to the fiblongata is a rounded jirojection, the eminentia teres ("the round eminence"). Beside this is a shallow depression, foi-ea mperior ihe upper little pit"), and above the latter a deeply pigmented area, the locus ccruleus ("the blue place"). A cross-section of the upper portion of the pons shows that the bulk of its ventral and larger part is composed of transverse bundles, with which are intermingled those which run longitudinally. The dorsal and 'smaller por- tion has a reticular formation iu the centre, behind which is a thin layer of gray tissue, and in front of it a part of the fillet or lemniscus—a structure which will CORPUS ALBICANS541 THE EPENCEPHALON. be described later, when all the segments of the encephalon in which it is found have been considered. Fig. 597.—Dorsal view of the mesencephalon, pons, and oblongata. The thalami and epiphysis are drawn upward, the optic tract downward. (Testut.) The Cerebellum. The cerebellum is the great, solid, nervous mass lying dorsal to, and on the same plane with, the pons, with which it is developed from the fourth encejjhalic vesicle (Fig. 598). It is situated in the posterior fossa of the cranium, and is Fig. .598.—Median section through the third and fourth ventricles. Left half. M. C, middle commissure. fTestut.) shielded from the pressure of the overlying cereliral hemispheres by a strong, tightly stretched prolongation of dura, called the tentorium. It has no cavityTHE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. 542 proper to itself, but it participates in the formation of tlie roof of the fourth ven- tricle. Its main portion consists of three parts, a median and two lateral, all continnous and of substantially the same structure. The lateral parts are called hemispheres—a piece of nomenclature imitative of that of the great cerebral masses, rather than appropriate on account of its inherent descriptiveness. Tliese bodies attain a size so greatly in excess of that reached by the median portion, which is between them, that the latter is com- paratively insignificant, and its obscuration by them on the lower aspect is almost complete in the normal position of the parts. The median portion is called the vermis ("worm") or vermiform process, on account of the undulatory appearance of its irregular surface. On the upper aspect of the cerebellum the vermis and hemispheres are separated only by slight grooves; but on the under surface the vermis is sunk almost out of sight in a deep dorso-vcntral depression, the m//eci(/(t (" little vale"), which ends behind in a deep notch, in front in a shallow one. The cerebellum is connected with other parts of the encephalon by six bands, three on each side. To the oblongata run the inferior peduiieles, previously described as the restes. To the quadrigeminal bodies of the isthmus stretch the superior pedimcles, which have been seen to bound the pontile portion of the fourth ventricle laterally. To the pons go the middle peduncles, which spread out into its ventral protuberance. The upper surface of the cerebellum is nearly flat, the lower surface decidedly convex. Both surfaces are marked with fissures which run in a generally trans- verse direction, and are so close together as to divide the cerebellar sul)stance into layers or leaves, whence it is said to l)e laminated or foliated. These folia are very diiferent in gross appearance from the gyri of the cerebrum, presenting a sharp border instead of a rounded surface ; but they are homologous with these gyri in that they have a basis of white substance and upon this a covering (cor- tex) of gray. The clearest conception of the depth and arrangement of the folia is o!)tained by making sections, especially in a vertical direction, through the cere- bellum at different planes (Fig. 599). It is then seen that the white substance SUPERIOR LOBES Fig. 599.—Sagittal section of left cerebellar hemisphere. (Testut.) f(n*ms a large core or trunk, the trapezium, from which a number of primary branches are given off. Each of these in its turn divides, and, as the ultimate rami, as well as the original, are.clothed in gray, an appearance is presented sug- gestive of a cedar tree, Avhence the name arbor vitce {" tree of life"), which is given to it. The upper and lower surfaces are se])arated by a rather prominent border, partly upon and partly near which runs the longest and deepest of the fissures, the f/reat horizonted or lonf/itudinal fissure. The upper surface is marked in the middle line by the superior vermis, whose central and most pronounced prominence is the monticulus (" little mountain "). On each side of the vermis is a shallow groove, beyond which is a hemisphere.THE EPENCEPHALON. 543 The deep fissures divide the entire upper j^ortion of the cerebellum into segments, which are seen most favorably in sagittal sections. For each segment of the ver- mis there is a corresponding and connected part of each hemisphere. These do not appear plainly in the picture (Fig. 600), but -will be understood by reference to the schematic arrangement, in which the segments are named in order from before backward, with the fissures which separate them. The segments of the vermis are the lingula (" little tongue "), the central lobe, the eulmcn (" summit "), the clivus ("slope"), and the cacumen ("top") ; and the parts of the hemisphere respectively corresponding are the frenulum ("little bi'idle"), the ala ("wing"), the anterior or ventral crescentic lobe, the posterior or dorsal crescentie lobe, and TROCHLEAR NERVE CENTRAL LOBE GREAT HORIZON- TAL FISSURE Fir,. 600.—Upper surface of cerebellum. The linpula and cacumen are concealed by overhanging' parts. Compare with scheme of this surface. (Testut.j the (lorso-superior lobe. The fissures are named with reference to their situation in front of or behind the central lobe and the clivus—precentred fismre, ]i08tcerttral fissure, jireelival Jissure, and postcUvcd fissure. Upper Surface of Cerebellum. VERMIS. LIXGULA. central lobe. CULMEN. CLIVUS. CACUMEN. HEMISPHERE. FRENULUM. PEECEKTRAL FISSVBE. ALA. POSTCENTRAL FISSURE. VENTRAL CRESCENTIC LOBE. PEECLIVAL FISSURE. DORSAL CRESCENTIC LOBE. POSTCLIVAL FISSURE. DORSO-SUPERIOR LOBE. The under surface presents in the mid-line the inferior vermis, separated super- ficially from the hemispheres by lateral grooves. Here, as on the upper aspect of tlie cerebellum, the deep fissures cut so far into the substance as to mark oflF segments ; but the portions of the hemispheres are less easily seen to be related to correspondent parts of the vermis than in the former case. The fissures are not as regularly disposed, and the whole arrangement is complicated. Close ex- amination, however, reveals a more systematic relation than casual inspection promises, and this is shown diagrammatically in the schematic table, which wouldTHE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. 544 best be studied in connection with the picture (Fig. 601). From before backward are seen in the vermis the nodule, the uvula, the pyramid, and the dorsal tuber (tuber posticum) ; and in the hemisphere thefloeculuis (" little tuft of wool"), the amiigdala ("almond"), the biventral or digadrle lobe, the alender lobe, and the dorao-inferior lobe. The uvula and amytjdahe are so named on account of their TRIFACtAL NERVE Fig. 601.—Under surface of cerebelluui. Tlie lieiiii.spheri.-s are pulled apart to give a view ot the inferior vermis. The nodule does not appear; the tuber is not labelled. Compare with scheme of this surface. (Testut.) reseml)lance to the parts of the same name in the pharynx, as seen through the open mouth. The fissures are named from their position with reference to the nodule, the pyramid, and the slender lol)e—the postnodular fissure, the pre- pi/raniidal fissure, the postpyramidal fissure, and the posUjraeile fissure. NODULE. UVULA. PYRAMID. DORSAL TUBER. Under Surface of Cerebelluji. VERMIS. HEMISPHERE. FLOCCULUS. FOSTNODULAR FisHVRE. AMYGDALA. PREPYRAMIDAL FISSURE. DIGASTRIC LOBE, POSTPYRAMIDAL FISSURE. r SLENDER LOBE. < POSTGRACILE FISSURE. I DORSO-INFERIOR LOBE. Embedded in each hemisphere is a nucleus, called the corpus dentedum (" toothed body ") from its jagged outline (Fig. 602). Its centre is white, and on the mesial side near the front the gray wall is deficient. Near this are three other masses of gray of small size—the nucleus emholiformis (" pluglike "), the nucleus glohosus ("spherical"), and the nucleus fastigii ("of the summit"). The general method of arrangement of the fibres traced into the cerebellum from its peduncles is shown in Fig. 603. The superior peduncle is mainly made up of fibres from the corpus dentatum and the cerebellar cortex. The middle peduncle is composed of fibres from cells in the cortex. They run to cells on both sides of the pons, and do not, as gross appearances suggest, go around from one side of the cei'ebellum to the other. The inferior peduncle receives fibres from cells of the cerebellar cortex and the ol)lon- gata, from the direct cerebellar tract of the spinal coi'd, and from the nuclei gracilis and cuneatus.545 THE OBLONGATA. Fig. 602.—Cerebellum in nearly horizontal section—the i .-urfuee of the lower section. (Testut.) THE OBLONGATA. The oblongata, also called medulla oblongata (" the oblong marrow"), and the spinal bulb, extends from the lower margin of the pons to a plane passing trans- versely just below the decussation of the pyramids, at which level the spinal cord begins. It is shaped somewliat like an inverted truncated cone, flattened ventro- FiG. 603.—Semidiagram of the three cerebellar Fig. 604.—The pons and oblongata, ventral peduncles. (Testut.) view. (Testut.) On the ventral surface is a longitudinal cleft, the rentro-median fissure, which begins above in a little pit, the foramen ccecum (" blind hole "), and is interrupted below by a criss-cross of nerve-bundles. On each side of the ventro-median fissure is a white body, gradually dwindling from above downward, and seeming to be directly continuous with the ventral column of the cord. These are the ventral pyramids, and the interlocking of the bundles at their lower part across the ventro-median fissure (constituting the above-mentioned cris.s-cross) is called the decussation of the jji/ramids. At the outer side of each pyramid is a cleft, the ventro-lcderal fissure, which is in line with the series of origins of the ventral roots of the spinal nerves. On each side the oblongata presents a vertical mass, the lateral column, or lateral tract, which is apparently continuous below with the lateral column of the cord, and above is encroached upon at the front part by a large ovoid mass, 35646 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. the olive (olivary body, inferior olive), whose presence crowds the column back- ward, and compresses it into a small band. The olive and lateral column are separated from the ventral pyramid by the ventro-lateral fissure, and from the dorsal structure of the oblongata by the dorso-lateral fissure, in which is seen a series of root-bundles, ranged in line with the dorsal roots of the spinal nerves. The dorsal surface (Fig. 605) of the oblongata is wide above and narrow below, and may well be described as consisting of upper and lower halves. The upper half presents at each side a column of white nervous material, the restis, or restifonn (" rope-like ") body—another name for the inferior cerebellar peduncle —which is prolonged downward into the fasciculus cuneatus, the last being con- tinuous with the dorso-lateral column (tract of Burdach) of the cord. The two restes are widel}* separated above, but converge toward the middle line below. On DORSO-INTERMEDIATE FISSURE FISSURE Fig. 605.—Fourth ventricle laid open by removal of its roof. (Testut.) the mesial side of the restis is a band, which from a thin beginning, thickens as it passes downward, and becomes continuous with the fasciculus gracilis, which is prolonged into the dorso-mesial column of the cord (tract of Goll), separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the dorso-median fissure. It is called the dorsal pyramid (posterior pyramid). The restis and dorsal pyramid of each side together form a prominent ridge, and the two ridges by their convergence enclose a triangular space. Stretched across this space is a membrane, consisting of a ventral layer of endyma and a dorsal layer of pia. This is one of the places where the nervous tissue of the encephalic wall has completely disappeared, and has left its serous lining and vascular covering, which have come together, and formed a membrane, here called the posterior medidlary velum, or metatela. From its ventral surface depend small clumps of blood-vessels, covered, of course, by endyma, and named the choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle. Below its middle is a perforation—the54Z THE OBLONGATA. foramen of Magendie, or metapore, through which the cerebro-spinal fluid miugles with the fluid in the serous cavity which surrounds the axis. In connection with the membrane should be mentioned the obex, a small layer of gray substance, which is stretched across the very apex of the triangle ; and the ligula, a small irregular lamina of white nervous tissue, which projects slightly over the mem- brane from each lateral border. Both of these structures are rudimentary. If the membrane is removed, the cavity of the fourth ventricle is exposed, and we see the part of its floor which is directly continuous with the portion pro- vided by the pons. The space presents a triangle, whose base is applied to that of the pons. The apex of the triangle has been likened to the nib of a pen, and, consequently, is referred to as the calamus seriptorius (" the writing pen "). The median cleft of the pons is continued down through the oblongata, and on each side of it are arranged from within outward three somewhat triangular areas— the internal white, the middle gray, and the external white—the flrst and third standing in relief. Eunning from the mid-line outward is a variable number of nervous threads, strke acusficce (" auditory stripes "), which turn around the restes, and end in the auditory nerve. The loiver half of the dorsal part of the oblongata is marked by the dorso- median fissure and on each side by the dorso-lateral fissure, and between them is the dorsal column, which is unequally divided by the dorso-intermediate fissure into a smaller, mesial column, the fasciculus gracilis ("slender bundle"), which is continued downward into the dorso-mesial column of the spinal cord (the tract of Goll), and a larger column, the fascicidus cuneatus ("wedge-shaped bundle"), which is prolonged downward into the dorso-lateral column of the cord (the tract of Burdach). At about the junction of the lower part of the oblongata with its upper, expanded portion the fasciculi gracilis and cuneatus contain each a mass of gray, which is known as its nucleus. Thus we have the nucleus gracilis and the nucleus cuneatus. The cavity of this part of the oblongata is tubular, like that of the cord into which it runs. Internal Structure of the Oblongata. Transverse sections of the oblongata at different levels show marked varia- tions in the disposition of its constituent elements. It is manifest that the out- line of these sections will be strikingly different, for, as we know, the uppermost portion is spread out laterally, while the lowest is bunched together into a com- pact cylinder. The change in the arrangement of the included parts follows this general trend, and is shown particularly well in the case of the gray masses— these being small and dispersed in the higher levels, and being gradually gathered together as they are traced downward, until they are united into a single, coherent mass of definite form. A horizontal section at the middle of the olives shows the cavity of the fourth ventricle at the extreme dorsal limit (Fig. 606). The dorsal boundary is broad and nearly flat, the ventral is narrow and broken in the middle by the ventro- median fissure, and each lateral undulates between these two, the whole periphery being described in generous curves. A median raphe is made by a criss-cross of white fibres, and on each side of it the surface is divided into three unequal terri- tories by the fibres of the tenth and twelfth cranial nerves. The tenth (pneumogas- tric) nerve marks off a dorso-lateral portion, the twelfth (hypoglossal) a ventro-mesial area, and the large space enclosed between these two has its superficial margin at the side. In the ventro-mesial area is the pyramid, and just dorsal to it is the fillet—which will be described as a whole later. The arciform nuclei are partly wrapped around the pyramids. In the lateral area appears the nucleus of the olive, here looking like a broad, crinkled band of gray and nearly surrounding a space of white. The toothed appearance of this capsule has led to its being called the dentate nucleus. Two accessory olivary nuclei are observed, one show- ing as a short, broad line, near the opening of the main nucleus, the other on the548 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. mesial side of the h_%-poglossa] nerve and parallel to it. Following the hypo- glossal dorsally we find it terminating in a nucleus in the floor of the fourth ven- tricle ; and its accessory nucleus near the olive is connected ■uith its main nucleus bv a band. Partly merged with this accessory nucleus is the nucleus ambiguus, which is the motor centre of certain mixed nerves, and a band parallel to that joining the two hypoglossal nuclei connects the ambiguus with a mass of grav in the floor of the ventricle—the sensory nucleus of the same mixed nerves. Fol- lowing the line of the pneumogasti'ic nerve, we see that it courses through a mass of gray tissue, a sprout from which is the cuneate nucleus, and its rounded end the head of the dorsal horn—a name which will be appreciated a little later, when the various nuclei are brought together. Capping the head of the dorsal horn is a bunch of fibres, constituting a root of the fifth nerve—the trifacial; and between the sensory and cuneate nuclei is a bundle known as the solitary fasciculus. A parallel section through the lover end of the olives shows a different arrange- ment (Fig. 607). The general outline approaches the circular, the tenth nerve is NUCLEUS GRACILIS NUCLEUS CUNEATUS BASE or VENTRAL HORN ROOT OF TRIFACIAL CAPPING HEAD OF DORSAL HORN PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE LEMNISCUS VENTRAL PYRAMID Fig. dul.—Transrerse section of the oblongata at the lo-sver end of the olives. (Tesrut. after Dnral.) near the transverse axis, and the nuclei dorsal to it are larger and nearer to each other. The pyramid Ls smaller; the fillet has spread out, and its lateral edge is almost at the surface; the corrugated nucletts of the olive is shrunken, its mesial accessory nucleus is larger, its other accessory has disappeared ; in the lateral area appears the head of the ventral horn, the base of the same occupying a median position at the focal point of the tenth and twelfth nerves ; just dorsal to the base of the ventral horn is that of the dorsal horn, from which curves dorsally the nucleus gracilis (Groll), separated but a little from its lateral companion, the549 THE OBLONGATA. nucleus cuneatus (Burdach); and counected with the last is the head of the dorsal horn, related, as in the first section, to a root of the trifacial nerve. A lower section exhibits further changes (Fig. 608). The pyramid and fillet are smaller; the head and base of the ventral horn are nearer; the tenth ner^^e has vanished ; all of the remaining gray masses are drawing together; the sides NUCLEUS GRACILIS Fig. 608.—Transverse section of oblongata at the crossing of the fillets. (Testut.) DORSAL MEDJAN FISSURE VENTRAL MEDIAN FISSURE Fig. 609.—Transverse section gata at the decussation of the (Testut. after Duval.) of ohlon- pyramids. (if the oblongata have grown up around the middle line, and have .shut in deep]\- the ventricle, -which in this lowest part is tubular; and from the nuclei gracilis and cuneatus thick bundles of fibres course ventrally, decassate in the middle line, and end in the fillet of the opposite side. Through the middle of the decmsation of the pyramids the section has a practically cir- cular outline (Fig. 609). The pyramid is smaller than before, and from it runs dorsally a bundle of fibres, which crosses its fellow of the opposite side in the middle line. The fillet is no longer seen ; the base and head of the ventral horn are clo.ser, being now sepa- rated only by the decussating bundles of the pyramid ; the base of the dorsal horn is nearer the centre of the section, its head is smaller ; the nucleus cuneatus is lo.st, and the nucleus gracilis stretches out as a long process from the base of the dorsal horn. The venti-al and dorsal median fissures are shallow, and from the latter a neurogliar septum stretches to the central gray mass. Xerve-roots are given oif from the heads of both horns. Finally, a section at the line between oblongata and cord (Fig. 610) shows that the nucleus gracilis has been left above, and that the other grav masses are completely united, and are ar- ranged in a form suggestive of the letter X, the canal being in tlie centre of the crossing arms. The dorsal limbs of the X are the dorsal horns, the ventral limbs the ventral horns, the base of each horn beins the part near the centre, the head being the free extremity. In each lateral half, between the dorsal horn and the D3R5AL MEDIAN FIS3UR DORSO-LATERAL —^ / COLUMN .CROSSED PYRAM- IDAL TRACT VENTRAL MEDIAN FISSURE Fig. 610.—Transverse section of the oblongata at its lower end. (Testut.)550 THE CEBEBRO-SPIXAL AXIS. side, is an oval area, which indicates the destination of the part of the ventral pyramid which has crossed the middle line in the process of c^ecussation. This series of sections clearly reveals the fact that, progressively from above downward, there is a diminntion in the amount of gray material, and a drawing together of its scattered masses. Proceeding in the other direction—from beloip upvard—we see that there is an addition of nuclei, a breaking up and dispersion of the gray mass of the lowest level, and that this scattering is caused by the oblicpie crossing from one side to the other of motor and sensory bundles. Examining the series of sections in reversed order, it is found that, at the first step, the heads of the ventral columns are amputated by the great bundles of fibres from the decussating pyramids, and the dorsal horns have had added to them the nuclei graciles. Next, the nuclei cuneati appear, and large fasciculi from them and the nuclei graciles sweep forward and inward, cross their op])Osite fellows at the middle line, and turn up at the back of the pyramids, forming the fillets. This ])erformance results in th(^ decapitation of the dorsal horns, just as the pyramidal bundles cut oft' the heads of the ventral horns. The succeeding step marks more emphatically the separa- tion of the various heads from their respective bases, and introduces the olive. At last, the lateral spreading of the dorsal portion throws the hind parts outward, brings the cavity and the; bases of the horns to the rear, while the nuclei graciles disappear. What has before been called the base of the ventral horn now assumes the role of the hypoglossal nucleus, and the head of this horn has become the accessory hypoglossal nucleus and the nucleus ambiguus. At several points in the description of the lower segments of the brain, it has been necessary to refer to the lemniscus or fillet, but a complete account of its course could not be appreciated until the structures of which it formed a part were measurably understood. Now, however, it may be considered with profit. The Lemniscus. The lemniscus ("the fillet") (Figs. 605-607) is a band, extending from the middle horizf)ntal plane of the oblongata to the level of the (piadrigemina. Its principal portion originates in the nuclei gracilis and cuneatus, which are situated in the dorsal part of the oblongata, and are the terminal stations of the funiculi gracilis and cuneatus, which are tlie upward prolongations of the dorsal tracts of the cord. It l)egins by running nearly horizontally forwai'd and inward across the middle line of the oblongata, decussating with its opposite fellow above the jilane of the pyramidal decussation, and reaching the dorsal surface of the pyramid. At this point it bends upward, and courses along close to the pyramid, being joined in this region by the fibres of the ascending lateral tract (Gowers) of the cord, which has come up through the lateral tract of the ol)longata and its lateral nucleus (Rolando). Thus it is seen that the lemniscus embraces all of the sensory fibres which have come from the coixl. Passing into the pons, the lemniscus occupies the ventral stratum of the dor- sal part, enters the mesencephalon, where a portion appears on the surface of the tegmentum, and almost all of it courses dorso-ventrally through this segment of the brain to the subthalamic region. There its fibres divide into two sets, one of Avhieh runs through the dorsal limb of the internal capsule, and thence passes to the cortex of the central area; while the second set, of greater size, enters the thalamus, and ends there in arborizations around the cells—from which last, however, other fibres run to the gyri around the central fissure, like the first group. The essential diflx'rence between the two sets is that one goes directly, the other through a thalamic interru]>tion, to the sensori-motor area of the cerebral cortex. The Fourth Ventricle. We have now studied separately the various structures enclosing the part of the encephalic cavity which is known as the fourth ventricle, and it will be wellTHE OBLONGATA. 551 to consider them in their natural connections as the continuous walls of this chamber. The upper, wide-spread portion of the fourth ventricle (that part which is usually thought of when the ventricle is named) is nearly rhomboidal or lozenge- shaped. It presents a ventral part, called the floor ; a dorsal part, the roof; an upper or anterior angle, a lower or posterior, and two lateral am/lcs. The upper or anterior .sides are formed by the superior cerebellar jieduncles, the lower or posterior sides by the inferior cerebellar peduncles, all of which overlap the floor a little. The Floor (Fig. 605).—The upper portion of the floor is furnished by the pons, the lower by the oblongata. In its whole extent the floor is cleft longi- tudinally by a median fissure, and a description of one half answers perfectly for the other. In the Pontile Portion.—Sloping down from the upper angle, parallel with and close to the superior peduncle is a strip of bluish hue, the locus ceruleus. In Fig. 611.—Diagram of the motor nuclei in and near Fig. ei2.—Diagram of the sensory nuclei in the floor of the fourth ventricle. (Testut.) the floor of the fourth ventricle. (Testut.) line with this and below it at the lateral angle is a shallow depression, the fovea superior. Between the fovea and the middle line is a white tubercle, the eminentia teres. In the Ohlongatal Portion.—Below the eminentia teres and, like it, close to the median cleft, is another and larger white projection, forming a triangular ridge which extends nearly to tlie lower angle. It is the hypoglossal area. At the outer side of the last is the pneumogastric or tmgus area, a gray, somewhat tri- angular space, the lowest part of which is sliglitly depressed, and is called the fovea inferior. Between the vagus area and the lateral angle is a white elevation, the auditor]/ area, whose upper part is called the acoustic tubercle. I^arge white threads, the strire acusticcv, pass outward from the mid-line, and are gathered into a bundle beneath the projecting restis, forming a root of the auditory nerve. At the lower angle is the obex. The Roof (Fig. 598).—The roof is formed above by the vetlvula, which stretches between the superior peduncles ; below by the metatcla, which spans the space between the inferior peduncles. The lower edge of the valvula is continued downward and backward into a thin white layer, derived from the centre of the cerebellar vermis ; and the upper border of the metatela is continuous with the pia and endyma, respectively covering and lining a similar layer which runs downward and backward from the white of the vermis. Thus, the roof is farthest from the floor, and forms a tent, at the point where tliese cerebellar laminae separate—the one to go up (forward) to the valvula, the other to go down (backward) to end by a free edge of nervous tissue, from which the roof is con-THE CEEEBBO-SPINAL AXIS. 552 tiuued by a membrane of vascular and serous tissues. In the centre of this membrane is an aperture, the mctaporc, or foramen of Magendie. It is interesting and very important to observe (Figs. 611, 612) how large a part of the ci'anial nerves have their deep (real) origin in and close to the floor of the fourth ventricle. The average weight of the normal adult encejjhalon is in the region of 49 ounces for the male, and about live ounces less for the female. JCERVICAL EN- LARGEMENT THE SPINAL CORD. The spinal cord (Fig. 613) is the terminal portion of the cerebro-spinal axis, and is a direct continuation of the oblongata, having its upper limit at the lowest level of the pyramidal decussa- tion. It is contained in the canal of the vertebral column. Like all other parts of the axis, it is bilaterally symmetrical. From it are given off almost all of the nerves which supply the volun- tary muscles of the parts below the head, and to it go the sensory nerves of the corresponding regions. Its shape approaches the cylindrical. It is slightly flattened ventro-dorsally, tapers at its caudal end, and presents a fusiform swelling in I LUMBAR EN- LARGEMENT (TERMINAL CONE Fig. 013.—Spinal cord, oblongata, and pons. Li'ft-liand figure is ventral view, right-hand is dorsal. (Testut.; Fig. 014.—Sagittal section of the spinal canal, showing the lower end of the cord and the filnm terminale. The dura is seen extending to the third sacral vertebra. (Testut.)553 THE SPINAL CORD. the cervical region, and another in the thoracico-hniibar region. The cervical enlargement extends from the third cervical vertebra to the second thoracic, and corresponds to the origin of the nerves of the upper limbs. The lumbar enlarge- ment, which marks the origin of the nerves of the lower limbs, begins at the ninth thoracic vertebra, attains its greatest size at the twelfth, and thence rapidly dwindles in a terminal cone, from the apex of which extends a delicate prolonga- tion, the filum terrninale (" the end thread "), Avhose upper part presents the essen- tial histologic elements of the cord (Fig. 614). It is customary, however, to regard the tip of the cone as the distal end of the spinal cord, as the filum is plainly only a rudimentary structure. The cord presents two curves, which correspond to those of the parts of the column which it occupies : a cervical curve, with its convexity forward, and a thoracic curve, with its concavity forward. The cord proper extends from the plane of the occipito-atloid joint to that of the body of the second lumbar verte- bra, and the iilum continues from this point to the base of the coccyx. The length of the cord proper is about eighteen inches, its transverse diameter one half- inch or less, and its iveight nearly an ounce. Fissures and Columns.—External inspection of the cord shows upon its surface a number of creases, running from end to end. In the middle line in front is a deep cleft—the ventro-median Jissure; in the middle line behind a shallow one—the dorso-median Jissure; at each side of the latter, nearly a quarter of the way around to the front is a shallow dorso-lateral fissure ; and between the dorso-lateral and the dorso-median, and much nearer the latter, is the dorso-intermedicde fissure. The dorso-lateral fissures are occupied by the dorsal roots of the spinal nerves. The ventrcd roots of the spinal nerves come off on each side from a vertical strip of the surface which is about as far from the ventro-median fissure as the dorsal roots are from the dorso-median fissure. Thus, each lateral half of the cord is divided into three parts : one between the ventro-median fissure and the ventral roots—the ventral (anterior) column ; a second between the ventral roots and the dorsal roots—the laiercd column ; and a third between the dorsal roots (or dorso-lateral fissure) and the dorso-median fissure—the dorscd (posterior) column, which is subdivided by the dorso-intermediate fissure into the dorso-lcdercd column, and the dorso-mesial column. All of these structures are composed of white nervous tissue. Tlie Gray Matter of the Cord (Fig. 616).—A transverse section of the cord shows a mass of gray nervous tissue, enclosed by the white. The gray of each side is somewhat crescentic in form, or the whole mass may perhaps be more aptly likened to two commas, one of which is reversed, the two placed back to back, and their convexities connected by a narrow band. The head of each comma is ventral, its tail dorsal. The two portions of each are called horns or cornua.^ The ventrcd horn points forward and outward, but does not come nearly to the margin. The free end of it is the head, the attached part is the base. From the head project numerous spine-like processes; from the concave side of the base juts out a triangular mass—the lateral horn, which is most pronounced in the upper thoracic region. The dorsal horn is directed backward and outward, and quite or nearly reaches the periphery of the cord at the dorso-lateral fissure. It is divided into three parts : the base, ^ hich is continuous with that of the ven- tral horn ; the head, which ends behind in a point, called the apex ; and the neck, which connects the base and head. Near the hind part of the head is a crescentic portion, the substantia gelatinosa (" gelatinous substance "). From the concavity of the comma, at the base of the dorsal horn, projects a network of gray tissue, enclosing in its meshes little masses of white. This is the jyrocessus reticularis ' The term horn or comu employed generally to designate a portion of the gray matter of the cord is strictly adapted only for use in the description of transverse sections ; for it is manifest that the gray of the cord, equally with the white, is arranged in columnar masses. But, as practically we do not see the gray except in cross-sections, the word liorn or comu is sufficiently accurate and not misleading.THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. 554 (" reticular process "), or /•etieula, aud it is most marked in tlie upper cervical region. The base of the dorsal horn bulges toward the middle line of the cord, forming the column of Clarke, a structure found iu the thoracic region and a little above and below it. The band connecting the two commas is the gray comrnimure, and it contains the central canal of the sjjinal cord, a minute channel, continuous with the fourth ventricle of the brain, from which it extends to the middle of the filum terminale. It is not patent in every part of its course. VENTRAL MEDIAN FISSURE DORSAL MEDIAN FISSURE Fig. 615.—Transverse section of the spinal cord at the middle of the thoracic region. (Testut, after Pierret.) The various fissures which liave been mentioned are all seen to have little de]ith, excepting the ventro-median, which cuts far into the substance of the cord, and reaches almost to the gray commissure. Between the dorso-median fissure and the gray commissure is a septum of neuroglia, which separates the two dor- sal columns from each other. The ventral and lateral columns are continuous around the head of the ventral horn, and, on this account, it is not uncommon to speak of them as a single structure—the ventro-lateral column. The two ventral columns are connected in their deepest parts by the irhite commissure, which is in contact with the o^rav commissure. These facts are shown diagrammaticallv in the left half of Fig." 616. A knowledge of the obvious features which have been mentioned, while necessary for purposes of description, affords little practical help in the study of the physiology of the cord ; and, consequently, it is essential to know the delimi- tations of the paths by which motor impulses and sensory impressions are con- ducted to and fro in this organ of intermediation between the highest centres of the cerebrum and the mo.st distant areas of the periphery. To a large extent these paths have been ascertained, and will now be indicated. It will be seen that there is little in the gross appearance of the cord to give information as to the boundaries of these cables of telegraphic commimication. The right half of the diagram (Fig. 616) will aid in the understanding of the few succeeding paragraphs. The Conduction Paths of the Cord.—In the ventral column a narrow triangular area is marked otf next to the ventro-median fissure. This is the rtircct pyramidal tract—" pyramidal," because it is a downward extension of a part of the pyramid of the oblongata ; " direct," because this path is on the same side of the middle line in encephalon and in cord. It gradually diminishes in size from above downward, and disappears at the level of the root of the last lumbar nerve.555 THE SPIXAL CORD. At the back part of the lateral column, clo^e to the dorsal horn, is an oval area, the crossed pyramidal trad—" jjyramidal," for the reason just given; " crossed," on account of the decussation which occurs in the oblongata. It dwindles as it descends, and ceases at the third or fourth sacral nerve-root. Between the outer side of the crossed pyramidal tract and the surface of the lateral column is the dorsal ])art of a long, narrow area, the direct cerebellar tract, so called because its fibres course upward through the oblongata as straight as possible to the cerebellum. It appears at the level of the eighth or ninth thoracic nerve-root, and progressively increases, as it ascends. Fig. 616.—Diagrammatic ideal transverse section of the spinal cord. On the left side are shown the gross divisions ; on the right side, the conduction paths. {F. H. G.) Anterior to this is a somewhat triangular area, which extends to, perhaps beyond, the ])lace of exit of the ventral roots, the ascendine/ lateral tract, or the Gowers tract—named " ascending," from the direction in which it carries impres- sions ; " lateral," from its position. It occupies the whole length of the cord, and increases in size from below upward. Lodged in the curve of the gray comma, and penetrated by the interlocking strands of the reticula, Avhere the latter exists, is the deej) lateral associedion tract (otherwise known as the mixed lateral). The first and second words in this title are self-explanatory ; the third is chosen because it is descriptive of the function of the filjres eom])osing this tract. These fibres originate in cells of the gray substance of the cord, run a short course, then turn into the gray, and end in arljonzatif)ns around its cells. Thus, they act as longirudinal commissures, associating each ]xirt of the cord with parts a short distance above and below. The remaining areas in the ventral and lateral columns are perfectly con-556 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. tiiiuoiis around the head of the ventral horn, except for the interrnpti<jn occa- sioned by the passage of the ventral roots from the surface to the ventral horn. They are often called the fundamental tracts, or ground tracts of their respective columns ; but a simpler and more instructive name is the ventro-lateral associa- tion tract—an aiijwllation which indicates at once the location and the service of the structure, wliosc function is to connect parts of the cord situated at different levels. The association tracts are found in the whole length of the cord, and are subject to but slight variations of size. In the dorsal column are two tracts, separated from each other by a line run- ning from the dorso-intermediate fissure to u point near the junction of the neurogliar septum and the gray commissure. Tiiese tracts, then, correspond exactly to the dorso-mesial and the dorso-lateral cohunns, and are called respec- FiG. fil7.—Diagram to show the crossing of the pyramids Fa;, tils.—Transverse seetions of (red) and of the lemniscus (blue). (Testut.) the spinal cord at difl'erent levels. (Testut, after Erb.) tively the tract (or column) of Go/l, and the tract (or column) of Burdach. The Goll tract increases in size as it ascends; the Burdach tract varies but little from its average at different levels. Finally, at the dorso-lateral fissure is a small irregidar area, the ivarf/inal hniuUe, called also by the names of the men who simultaneously described it, the i^p ifzka-L i.^sa iter tract.THE MEMBRANES. 557 THORACIC From what has been said it must be evident tliat the size and shape of the cord, and the absolute and relative amounts of white and gray matter vary greatly in diiferent parts. This is shown pictorially in Fig. 618. The Spinal Nerve-roots (Fig. 619).— The roots of the nerves which arise from the spinal cord are in two sets, dorsal and ventral. The dorsal leave the cord in a continuous series at the dorso-lateral fis- sure, the veittral along a narroAV vertical strip of the surface nearest to the head of the ventral horn. At fairly regular in- tervals the roots in each series are bunched together, and then the fagot of the dorsal set is united to that of the ventral, the result being a single bundle, which is a spinal nerve. In this nerve the fibres from the two roots are intimately mingled, and thus the spinal nerves are mixed nerves. On the dorsal bundle of each nerve is a ganglion, situated at the distal part of the root and outside of the sheath of dura. The upper roots are short and horizontal, and those below these are pro- gressively longer and more nearly per- ' VENTRAL |\, FOOTS COCCY GEAL Fig. 619—Formation of a spinal nerve. (Testut.) Fig. 620.—Lower end of the spinal cord and the Cauda equina, dorsal aspect. The dorsal roots of the rijht side have been removed. (Testut.) pendicular. The lowest come oif from the tapering cone at the end of the cord proper, are very long and perpendicular in direction. From its resemblance to a horse's tail the collection of these roots is called the cauda equina (Fig. 620j. THE MEMBRANES of the Cerebro-spinal Axis. The bi'ain and spinal cord are enveloped in three membranes (meninges), of which the innermost is called the pia, the middle one the arachnoid, and the outer- most the dura. Each of these is a covering for every part of the axis ; but they have such variations of structure and arrangement in different parts as to make it best to consider separately the membranes of the brain and those of the spinal cord.THE CEREBRO-SPIXA L AXIS. 558 The Membranes of the Brain. The Dura, formerly ealled dura laatcr ("severe mother"), is a strong, thiek membrane, composed of white fibrous tissue with a small admixture of yellow fibres, and lodging a great number of blood-vessels. It is arranged in two layers, which are closely nnited in most parts, the outer one being decidedly the more vascular. Externally the dura is firmly adherent to the inner surface of the bones which form the brain-case, and is for them the internal periosteum, known as endocvanium ("within the cranium "). When the dura is peeled off from the bones its outer surface is seen to be tlocculent, owing to the vessels which i)ass from it into the bone being jiuUed partly out of the channels in which they were lodged, and torn off, and to the similar treatment of certain small, fibrous pro- cesses of the membrane. The endocranium is continuous with the pericranium at the margin of the various holes which perforate the skull. The dura extends outwai'd through the basal foramina, and becomes continuous with the areolar sheath of the nerves which pass through them. Several broad prolongations of the dura extend from the periphery toward the centre of the cavity of the brain-case. In their formation the inner layer of SINUS ' Fig. 621.—The tentorium, viewed from above. (Testut.) the dura separates from the outer along a definite line and projects centrally. Pi'esently it comes in contact with a corresponding and opposite plate, wliich has been formed in the same manner, and the two blend, and, thus united, stretch toward the centre as a sti'ong, partial partition. At the attached border of these shelf-like structures is left a prismoid space, whose base is bounded by the outer layer of the dura, and its sides by the prolongations from the inner layer. These spaces are lined by an extension from the tunica intima of the veins, and thus constitute the venous sinuses, already described.559 THE 3IEMBRANES. The principal processes of the dura are the tentorium, the falx cerebri, and the falx cerebelli. The tentorium (" tent") springs from the borders of the superior petrosal and the horizontal part of the lateral sinuses. From this origin it rises toward the centre, and terminates in a free border, which extends forward and is attached on each side to the anterior and posterior clinoid processes. There is thus left a large opening, in which is situated the niesencejihalon. The tentorium is spread between the cerebellum and tlie occipital portion of the cerebrum, protecting tlie former from the superincunil)ent pressure of the latter. The falx cerebri (" sickle of the brain ") is so called from its shape. It is attached anteriorly to the crista galli, posteriorly to the median part of the up^ier VEIN Fig. 622.—Falx cerebri and tentorium, left lateral view. (Testut.) surface of the tentorium, and for tlie rest of its extent to the ridges bounding the great longitudinal sinus. It dips into the great fissure between the hemispheres, deeply behind, and progressively less so as it is traced to the front. It thus forms a tightly stretched, median septum, Avhich prevents the pressui'e of one hemis|)here upon the other in the lateral movements of the head, just as the fore- and-aft partition in a vessel keeps the cargo from shifting from side to side in the lurchings of the craft at sea. The falx cerebri encloses the superior longitudinal sinus peripherally, the straight sinus in its tentorial attachment, and the inferior longitudinal sinus in its free border. The falx cerebelli is a small median septum between the cerebellar hemi- spheres behind. It is broadest above, where it is attached to the under surface of the tentorium, and tapers rapidly as it descends. It encloses the occipital sinus in its posterior border. Under the names of diaphragm of the sella and terdorhnn of the hypophy><is a small double fold of the dura extends inward from all sides over the sella tur- cica, covering the hypophysis, and leaving a little aperture for the apex of theTHE CEBEBRO-SPINAL AXIS. 660 infundibiiUira. The presence of this fold accounts for tlie fact that the hypo- physis is usually torn away when the brain is removed. The arteries of tlie dura are branches of the occipital, vertebral, ascending pharyngeal, internal maxillary, internal carotid, and ()])hthalmic. The Pia, formerly called ^>/a mater ("affectionate mother"), consists of blood- vessels arranged in the form of a membrane, and supported by areolar tissue. It is the nourishing tunic of the brain, and lies close to its surface everywhere, dipping down to the bottom of every fissure, and sending the branches of its arteries into the nervous substance. It is prolonged onto the roots of the nerves, and becomes continuous with their connective-tissue sheath. The velum inter- positum and choroid plexuses, already described, are pial structures. The Arachnoid (" like a spider's web ") is a thin, delicate membrane, situated between the ])ia and the dura, much nearer the latter, and, for the most part, sub- stantially parallel with it. It does not follow the pia into the fissures, except the great longitudinal. The external surface of the arachnoid is furnished with a FALX CEREBRI Fig. 623.—The arachnoid at the base oi mc uraiii. me membrane nas Deen peeled off from the left hemi- sphere. (Testut.) single layer of flattened epithelial cells, which is continuous with the lamina of similar cells on the inner surface of the dura. Between them is a little serous fluid. Thus we have the elements of a serous membrane, and it is proper to con- sider the arachnoid such. The interval between the dura and the arachnoid is the mbdural space or arachnoid caviti/. It is crossed obliquely by little fibrous bundles, which connect the two membranes. The cavity is normally merely virtual, its opposite sides being in contact; but it may become actual in disease. The under surface of the arachnoid is connected with the outer surface of theTHE 3IEMBBANES. 561 pia by numberless trabeeulte of fibrous tissue, which foinn a delicate network. In some situations these are very abundant, in others much less so ; but every- where they are covered with flattened epithelial cells. The interval l)etween the arachnoid and the pia is the subaradinoid ifpace. It is essentially lymphatic in character, and contains cerebro-sjiinal fluid. At certain jjlaces the subarachnoid space is quite deep, and the trabeculse are comparatively few. Such enlaro;ements are known as cidernce araehnoidales (" arachnoid reservoirs "). The metapore (for- amen of Magendie) in the roof of the fourth ventricle jiermits a communication between the ventricular cavity and the subarachnoid space. At irregular inter- vals, principally near the longitudinal sinus, the arachnoid buds out into tufts, Avhich press upon the structures peripheral to themselves, and even produce marked pits in the inner table of the bones. These bodies are called glandvke Pacchionii (" little glands of Pacchioni"). Sometimes they contain minute, hard pai-ticles, called brain-mnd. The Membranes of the Spinal Cord. In considering the meninges which enclose the cord it will be sufiicient to indicate the characteristics in which they are unlike the corresponding structures in the head. The Dura.—The feature in which the dura of the cord diifers most strikingly from that of the brain is in its not being the internal periosteum of the bones of the cavity in which it is contained. Each of the segments of the vertebral column has its own periosteum. The dura is reflected from the brain-case at the margin of the foramen magnum, and below this hangs as a long tube (theca, "case") between the periphery of the spinal canal and the surface of the spinal cord, having attachments to the upper three cervical vertebrse and low down to the posterior common ligament. Be- TiLUM tween the dura and the vertebrse is the epidural (" upon the dura ") space occupied by areolar tissue, in whose meshes are many fat- cells and a plexus of spinal veins. The outer, as well as the inner surface, is furnished with a single layer of epithelial cells. The Pia is more fibrous and less vascular than that of the en- cephalon. From each side ex- tends a long ribbon of connective tissue, the outer edge of which is marked by long, shallow notches CAUDA EQUINA GANGLION OF DORSAL BOOT ARACHNOID DORSAL ROOT VENTRAL ROOT Fig. 624.—Pouch at lower end of spinal dura, and the sacral nerves. (Testut.) 36 VERTEBRAL VENOOS PLEXUS VESSELS Fig. G2-1.—Horizontal section of vertebral column, showins spinal cord and its mem- branes. (.Gegenbaur.)562 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. and intervening sharp projections. From the appearance thus produced this structure has been called the Ugamentuvi denticulatum [" toothed ligament"). The projections are attached to the dura between the places where the spinal nerves perforate that membrane. The Arachnoid lies near the dura and far from the cord, and, consequently, the subdural space is small and the subarachnoid is large. The latter space has few trabeculse as compared with that of the brain ; but a dorsal median partition, the septum posterius, passes from the arachnoid to the pia, giving passage to vessels. The space is crossed also by the ligamenta denticulata.563 THE NERVES. By W. KEILLER. IN this chapter will be described, first, the nerves which connect the brain and spinal cord with the skin, muscles, and viscera, and the nuclei in which these nerves take origin ; and, second, the sympathetic system. The mode in which the nerves end in skin, muscles, and other organs is dealt with in the chapter on histology, or in the sections of the work describing the organs themselves. THE CEREBRO-SPINAL NERVES. The cerebrospinal nerves are those which spring directly from the brain or spinal cord. Those which pass to their destination through foramina in the base of the skull are called cranial nerves. The rest are called spinal nerves, as they spring from the sides of the spinal cord and emerge through the intervertebral foramina, excepting the last spinal or coccygeal nerve, which passes through the lower extremity of the neural canal. The first spinal nerve, however, is somewhat exceptional, arising from the oblongata, and emerging from the neural canal between the occipital bone and the atlas. All these nerves are paired and symmetricallv distributed, the apparent asymmetry of the vagus being due to developmental changes. As the nerves leave the brain or cord and pierce the membranes, they receive investments from the pia, arachnoid, and dura, which blend with the epi- and perineurium ; but fluid, injected forcibly into the sub- ai'achnoid or subdural space, will find its way readily along the nerves for some distance. In the case of the optic nerve each sheath remains distinct as far as the eyeball. Typical Constitution of a Cerebro-spinal Nerve.—All spinal nerves and most cranial nerves arc mixed ; that is, are both motor and sensory in function, the function of each fibre depending on its mode of origin and termination ; and, since cranial nerves, though sometimes obscurely, follow the same plan of forma- tion as spinal nerves, we shall take the latter as the type for study. The diagrammatic representation of a spinal nerve in Fig. 626 shows that it arises by two roots from the spinal cord. The dorsal root is sensory, has a gan- glion on it, and springs by one compact bundle from the dorsal horn of gray matter and dorso-lateral aspect of the cord. The ventral root is motor, has no ganglion, and springs by several bundles from the ventral horn of gray matter and the ventral aspect of the cord. The points by which these several bundles leave the cord form collectively the sujjerjicial origin of the nerve. Each fibre of the motor root is the axis-cylinder process of one of the nerve-cells of the ventral horn of gray matter, the finer branching processes of this cell connecting it with higher centres. AYhile the nerve-cell lives, the fibre lives ; when the cell dies the fibre dies. These cells of the ventral horn form collectively the deep or nuclear origin of the motor root, which their axis-cylinder processes unite to form. The ganglion on the dorsal root contains the cells whose axis-cylinder pro- cesses form the sensory segment of the nerve. Though separated from the spinal564 THE NERVES. cord in the adult, it is an outgrowth from it in the embryo. The cells of this ganglion are bipolar, sending one process centrifugally into the nerve-trunk, and the other centripetally into the spinal cord. Tiie latter bifurcates, one branch descending in the cord to enter into relationship Avith the cells of the dorsal horn of gray matter, and the other ascending to form branching ])rocesses round theTHE CRANIAL KE RVES. 565 cells of Clarke's column, and of the nucleus gracilis and nucleus cuneatus in the oblongata, and others which need not be mentioned. Tluis a dorsal nerve-root is related to two groups of cells, viz., those of its ganglion and a number of widely scattered cells of the gray matter of the spinal cord and oblongata. The ganglion is homologous with the Gasserian ganglion on the fifth cranial nerve, the jugular ganglion on the ninth, the ganglia of the tenth, and the nerve-cells of the olfactory bulb, retina, and spiral ganglion of the cochlea ; and the cells of the dorsal horn of gray matter, with which the sensory fibres are related, collectively represent what are described as the misovy nuclei of the cranial nerves. The mixed cranial nerves, such as the fifth, uintli, and tentli, fi)llow this type verv closely ; the third, fourth, sixth, seventh, eleventh, and twelfth are purely motor nerves, and correspond developmentally with the motor root of a sj^inal nerve ; while the first, second, and eighth are purely sensory, and are constituted like the sensory root of a spinal nerve. THE CRANIAL NERVES. The classification of the cranial nerves into twelve pairs is based upon their mode of distribution. It was proposed by Soemmering, and is now generally adopted, in preference to the older classification of AVillis into nine pairs, which had reference to their mode of piei'cing the dura. The following table gives at a glance the numerical and the ordinary name of each nerve, and a summary of its function and area of distribution. Table of the Cranial Nerves. Classification ' of Soemmering. other Names. Distribution. Function. Olfactory. Optic. Oculomotor. Trochlear. Trifacial. Abducent. Facial. Auditory. Glossopharyn- geal. Upper third of nasal cavity. ■ Retina. ; Muscles of eyeball (except external rectus I and superior oblique). Superior oblique of eyeball. Sensory part to face, fore part of scalp, ex- ternal ear, eye, teeth, gums, cheek, fore part of tongue. Motor part to muscles of mastication. External rectus of eyeball. Superficial muscles of face, frontalis, pla- tysma, stylohyoid, and posterior belly of digastric. Membranous labyrinth of ear. Pharynx and hind part of tongue, some motor fibres. Pneumogas-j "Ssn.sory to external ear. Motor and senRoryl trie, o r| to pharynx, larynx, trachea, lungs, vagus. j cesophngus, stomach, heart. Some fibres| to liver. Spinal acces-jMotor to trapezius and sternomastoid mus- sory. 1 cles. The rest is accessory to the pneu- I mogastric. j Hypoglossal. Muscles of the tongue. Special Sense (Smell). Speci.\l Sense (Sight). Motor. Motor. Ordixaey sense. Motor. !MOTOR. Motor. Special Sense (Hearing and Equilibrium). Special Sense ( Ta.ste). Ordixary Sexse. Motor. Ordixary Sexse. Motor. Motor. Ordixary Sexse. Motor. Superficial Origins (Fig. 627).—The cranial nerves spring from the under sur- face of the brain in the order of their names. Thus, the first appears in front of the anterior perforated spot; the second springs from the chiasma, the optic tracts being superficially traceable to the corpora quadrigemina ; the third nerve arises from the inner side of the crus cerebri close to the pons ; the fourth Avinds round5G6 THE NERVES. the outer side of the pons, and can be traced dorsally to the valvida, Avhence it emerges. The fifth arises by two bundles from the side of the pons, the smaller motor root being in front of and ventral to the larger sensory root. The sixth springs from the groove between the pons and anterior pyramid, the seventh and eighth from the same groove bat more laterally. A small l)undle between the seventh and eighth, called the pars intermedia, furnishes an additional root to the seventh. The ninth, tenth, and eleventh arise as a series of small bundles from the side of the oblongata in a vertical line, dividing the restiform body from the olive and lateral column of the cord. The spinal portion of the s])inal accessory emei'ges l)y numerous bundles from the side of the cord in a direct line with the rest of this group, extending as far dow'u as the fifth, sixth, or even seventh cervical nerve. The twelfth nerve springs by ten or twelve small ljundles from the groove between the olivary body and anterior pyramid, and thus lies ventral to the pre- FiG. 627.—Under surface of the bruin, showing the stiperlieial origins of the cranial nerves. The Roman numerals indicate the nerves. (Testut.) ceding series, and nearer the pons than the last of them. It lies in series with the anterior roots of the first s])inal nerves. Deep or Nuclear Origins of the Cranial Nerves.—Like the spinal nerves the cranial nerve-roots can be traced till tliey come into close relationship with cer- tain groups of cells, which, for anatomical and phvsiological reasons, we regard as their deep origins. It is impossible for the student to study this subject till he has thoroughly mastered the anatomy of the brain and especially of the oblongata and pons; but, when he has learned the gross anatomy of the central nervous system, he will find much living interest in what is now known of this obscure but vitally important section.THE OLFACTORY NERVE. 567 Deep Origin of the First or Olfactory Nerve.—When we speak of the first or olfactory (" smelling ") nerve, we usually mean the olfactory tract with its three roots and terminal bulb, and regard the twenty or more filaments, which spring from the bulb, as branches of the nerve. Embryology teaches us, however, that the tract is really a hollow outgrowth of the lateral ventricle, that the cells in the inferior segment of the bulb are homologous with the nucleus of a sensory nerve, and that the filaments which pierce the cribriform plate collectively represent the sensory nerve itself. The olfactory tract is a flattened band which lies in the olfiictory fissure on the orbital surface of the frontal lobe. On its under surface it is flat and lies on the olfactory groove of the sphenoid; superiorly it presents a ridge which fits into the olfactory fissure. Posteriorly it springs from the cerebral cortex in front of the anterior perforated space by three roots ; anteriorly it ends in the olfactory bulb. Microscopically the tract presents on transverse section, (a) a thin, gray cortex, continuous with the cortex cerebri; (6) an inner layer of raedullated nerve-fibres, thick inferiorly and thinning oft' above; and (c) some central gray substance consisting oif neuroglia and fibrous tissue—the remains of the ependyma of the embryonic ventricular cavity, which in adult man is obliterated. The internal or mesial root is a band of medullated nerve-fibres, running into the great longitudinal fissure, where it is lost in the anterior end of the callosal gyrus. The external or lateral root, larger than the internal, is a white band which crosses backward and outward over the anterior perforated space toward the extremity of the temporal lobe, where it ends in the hippocampal gyrus and per- haps the amygdala. The middle or gray root is best called the trigonum olfactorium, being only a slight elevation in the angle between the two roots just mentioned, and con- taining no non-medullated band of fibres which could properly be called a gray root. The olfactory bulb is oval in shape, about two-fifths of an inch long and a third as broad. Its upper surface presents a ridge continuous with the ridge of the olfactory tract, and like it received into the olfactory fissure of the frontal lobe. Its under surface is slightly convex, and lies on the cribriform plate of the eth- moid, and from it spring the twenty or more filaments which collectively form the olfactory nerve. The dorsal portion of the bulb consists of medullated nerve- fibres ; its ventral segment contains the nerve-cells, whose axis-cylinder processes form the medullated nerves of the tract, and whose bi'anching processes come into close relationship in the olfactory glomeruli with the branching ends of the olfactory filaments. These cells, therefore, form the nucleus of the olfactory nerve. It Avill be convenient here to complete the description of the olfactory nerve. The Olfactory Nerve (Figs. 628, 629). This nerve is represented by the twenty or more fine bundles of non-medul- lated fibres, which spring from the under surface of the olfactory bulb. They pierce the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, each receiving an investment of dura. Those piercing the inner line of foramina supply the upper third of the nasal septum (Fig. 628); the outer group supplies the lateral wall of the nose as low as the lower border of the superior turbinated bone (Fig. 629). The fibres communicate freely, forming a fine network. They commence as axis-cylinder processes of the olfactory cells of the Schneiderian membrane, and terminate by minutely branching processes in the glomeruli of the olfactory bulb.568 THE NERVES. PALATINE Fig. 629.—Outer wall of nose, showing olfactory nerves and nerves of common sensation. (Testut.) The Second or Optic Nerve. Traced backward from the eyeball the optic (" seeing ") nerves (Fig. 630) are seen to meet on the under surface of the brain in the optic commissure or chiasma, where they partially decussate, and whence two flattened bands, the optic tracts, pass backward round the crura cerebri to the thalami and quadrigeminal bodies. The optic tract (Fig. 630) arises by two roots from the pulvinar of the optic thalamus, the corpora geniculata, and the superior quadrigeminal body. Thence it bends round the iip])er end of the crus cerebri to which it is attached as a flat- tened, white band, and becoming more rounded, passes between the anterior per- forated space and the interpeduncular space to end in the chiasma. The optic commissure or chiasma (" like X ") is oblong, the longest diameter being transverse. It rests on a groove aliove the olivary eminence of the sphe- noid and has the internal carotid artery on either side of it. From its extrem- ities in front spring the optic nerves. The optic nerve enters the oi'bit by the optic foramen, accom])anied by the ophthalmic artery, which lies below and external to it. In the orbit it runs forward, outward, and a little downward to the back of the eyeball,569 THE SECOND OB OPTIC NEB VE. which it pierces one-eighth iueh to the iunei- side of the optic axis. Its fibres then radiate in all directions over the anterior surface of the retina. As the nerve enters the orbit it receives an investment from the dura, which sends a layer also to blend with the periosteum. The pial, arachnoid, and dural sheaths remain distinct as far as the sclerotic, with which they blend, and well-marked subdural and subarachnoid spaces can be demonstrated. In the orbit the nerve is closely surrounded posteriorly by the recti muscles; but farther forward is separated from them by fatty tissue. The ciliary vessels and nerves surround it, especially above and below, the ophthalmic artery and nasal nerve cross over it Fig. 630.—Origin and relations of optic tract. Part of tlie base of the brain: temporal g>-ri drawn aside, pia removed. (W. Keiller.) from without inward, and the ciliary ganglion lies on its outer surface. It is pierced by the arteria centralis retinfe and its vein. In the chiasma (Fig. 631) a partial decus.sation takes place. The outer fibres do not decussate, but connect the outer half of the retina with the geniculate and quadrigeminal bodies of the same side ; the inner fibres decussate completely, connecting the inner half of the retina with these nuclei on the opposite .side. Thus, the right optic tract conveys fibres from the right halves of both retiuje to the right side of the brain, and the left behaves similarly. The lateral pcjrtions of the chiasma consist of uncrossed fibres, the central portion contains inter- crossed fibres from the nasal (inner) sides of both retinae. Besides these the posterior part of the chiasma is occupied by a band of fibres which, after partial interruption in the cells of the internal geniculate bodies, unite the inferior corjiora quadrigemina with each other. This is called Gudden's commissure, and appears to have nothing to do with sight. The fibres of the optic nerve commence as axis-cylinder processes of the large ganglionic cells of the retina, and end in branching processes round the cells of the external geniculate body, superior quadrigeminal body, and optic thalamus, which cells, therefore, form the nucleus of the optic nerve; thence fibres pass by the optic radiation to the cuneus in the occipital lobe of the cerebrum. Imper- fectly traced connections exist between the visual centres and the nuclei of the third, fourth, and sixth nerves. General View of the Nuclei of the Third to the Twelfth Cranial Nerves (Figs. 632, 633).—The nuclei of the third to the twelfth cranial nerves inclusive lie in the central gray matter of the brain from the level of the posterior commissure to that of the decussation of the pyramids, the nucleus of the spinal accessory,THE NERVES. 570 and the ascending vago-glossopharyngeal and fifth roots extending still lower down. In Fig. 632 the motor nuclei are represented (in red), in Fig. 633 the Fig. 631—Diagram of the course of the optic fibres. (W. Keiller, after Testut.) sensory nuclei (in blue). The motor nvdei are arranged in two interrupted columns, the third, fourth, sixth, and twelfth motor nuclei forming one column close to the middle line, and very near the floor of the aqueduct, fourth ventricle or central canal; while the motor nuclei of the fifth, seventh, ninth, tenth, and eleventh form another column, more deeply and more laterally situated than the first and deviating somewhat toward the side above, where the ventricle is widest. The fifth nerve has a well-marked ascending root, which is probably motor, as well as a crossed motor root. The spinal portion of the spinal accessory arises from the cells of the ventral horn of gray matter as low as the sixth or seventh cervical nerve. Coming now to the scvsm'y midei, each sensory nerve has an ascending root. Thus the fifth, eighth, ninth, tenth, and accessory portion of the eleventh have each an ascending root which ajipears to bring it into relation with the nucleus of the funiculus cuneatus and gelatinous substance of Rolando (compare the con- nection of the sensory roots of the sjiinal nerves with the same nuclei). Each nerve has in addition a special sensory nucleus—the eighth nucleus is divisible into three groups—near the level of its point of exit and dorso-lateral to the motor nuclei. In lonf/itudinal extent the nucleus of the third nerve occupies the floor of the aqueduct from the posterior commissure to the groove between the superior and inferior quadrigeminal bodies, the nucleus of the fourth lies ventrally to tlie testis, the fifth nucleus nearly corresponds to the lateral recess, the sixth lies under the eminentia teres, the eighth nuclei are on a level with the striae acusticas, and theTHE THIRD OR OCULO-MOTOR NERVE. 571 seventh on the same level, but more mesial. Lastly the ninth, tenth, and eleventh form two columns (sensory and motor), and the twelfth a third column, which extend almost the whole length of the oblongata. Fig. 632.—Diagram of the motor nuclei in and near Fig. 633.—Diasram of the sensory nuclei in the floor of the fourth ventricle. (Testut.) the floor of the fourth ventricle. (Testut.) Co>'XECTIO^;S OF THE XuCLEI OF THE CPvA>'IAL XeRVES WITH THE COE- TEX Cerebri. The cortical connections of the olfactory and optic nerves have already been described. The motor tract for the other cranial nerves seems to run from the motor area of the cerebral cortex, down through the genu of the internal capsule, pyramidal segment (middle third of the crusta) of the crus cerebri, and pyra- midal tract of the pons and medulla to nearly opposite their respective nuclei. It then crosses through the raphe and passes the formatio reticularis to the motor nuclei of the opposite side. Round the cells of the motor nuclei the pyramidal fibres end, and from these cells fresh fibres pass by the motor nerve-roots to the periphery. The cortical centre for the facial occupies the lower ends of the preceutral and postcentral gyri; the hypoglossal centre is in the lower end of the precentral and posterior end of the inferior frontal gyri. The sensory tract is less known but, on leaving the sensory nuclei, it appears to cross to the opposite fillet, and thus pass to the superior C[nadrigeminal body and subthalamic region or thalamus, some part of it going through the jiostor.ior third of the hind limb of the internal capsule to the cortex cerebri behind the motor area. The course of the nerve-roots from their nuclei to sujjerficial origins is as follows : The roots of the third, fifth, sixth, eighth, twelfth, and the sensory roots of the ninth, tenth, and eleventh, run in nearly straight lines ventro-laterally from nucleus to point of superficial emergence. The fourth is altogether exceptional (see special description). The motor roots of the seventh, ninth, tenth, and eleventh run at first dorso-mesially toward the floor of the ventricle and then bend outward, and lastly ventrally to join the sensory roots, the seventh running upward for some distance before it turns outward. "We now pass to a particular description of the cranial nerves from the thirrl to the twelfth, inclusive of both. The first and second nerves have already been fully considered. The Third or Ocuio-motor Nerve. The nucleus of the third nerve (Fig. 6.35\ the oculo-motor ("eye-mover"), consists of several distinct groups of cells, lying on the floor of the aqueduct,572 THE NERVES. close to the middle line, and nearly corresponding in position to tlie sn]ierior quadrigeminal body. It is just dorsal to the posterior longitudinal fasciculus, which appears to connect it with the nuclei of the seventh and eighth, and with the sixth nucleus of the opposite side. From its nucleus the nerve issues in many small bundles, running ventrally through the posterior longitudinal bundle and red nucleus to the oculo-motor groove, on the inner side of the crus ccreliri just above the pons. The nuclei of both sides communicate freely. The nerve so formed passes between the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries, forward and a little outward, piercing the dura on the outer side of the poste- rior clinoid process, and so entering the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, in INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY AND SIXTH NERVE OCULO-MOTOR NERVE THOCH LEAR. NERVE OPHTHALMIC NERVE SUPRAMAXILLARY NERVE y \ PITUITARY J BODY SPHENOIDAL SINUS BODY OF "SPHENOID FIBROUS TRABECUL/E \j Fig. 634.—Cavernous sinus, as shown by transverse section through the middle of the sella turcica. (W. Keiller.) which it is embedded (Fig. 634). Between layers of the dura it enters the sphenoidal fissure, having divided into a superior and inferior division. Thus it enters the orbit, passing between the two heads of the external rectus, the two divisions l)eing separated by the nasal nerve. The superior division is directed inward and forward over the optic nerve, and pierces the rectus superior to terminate in the levator palpebrte superioris, sup- plying these two muscles. The inferior division splits into three branches. Of these, one supplies the internal rectus, another the inferior rectus, and the third, larger than either of the573 THE THIRD OR OCULO-MOTOR NERVE. others, passes between the inferior and external recti to enter the posterior border of the inferior obliqne. This branch gives a short, thick offset to the ciliary gana-lion, thus furnishing its motor root, and also contributes some twigs to the inferior rectus. The third nerve supplies all the orbital muscles, except the superior oblique (supplied by the fourth nerve) and external rectus (sixth nerve). It also, through the ciliary ganglion, supplies the culiary muscle and sphincter iridis. It is further to be noted that the nucleus of this nerve, through communication with the roots of the facial, supplies the orbicularis iialpebrarum, occipito-frontalis, and cor- ruo'ator supercilii; and that the fibres of the third nerve to the internal rectus are derived from the sixth nucleus of the opposite side. It may be well to note here that all the orbital muscles are supplied by their nerves on their surfaces next the eyeball, except the inferior oblique which is pierced by its nerve on its OPTIC NERVE AND OPHTHALMIC ARTERY FOURTH NERVE FRONTAL NERVE LACHRYMAL NERVE UPPER DIVISION OF THIRD NERVE NASAL NERVE LOWER DIVISION OF THIRD NERVE SIXTH NERVE TEMPOROMALAR NERVE OPHTHALMIC VEIN Fig. 636.—Back of the orbit, showing passage of nerves through sphenoidal fissure. (Modified from Testut.) posterior border, and the superior oblique which is supplied by the fourth nerve on its orbital surface. Observe here, also, the relations of the orbital nerves in the cavernous sinus and sphenoidal fissure (Fig. 636). The third and fourth nerves and ophthalmic division of the fifth lie embedded in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, while the sixth nerve and internal carotid artery pass through the sinus, the nerve lying beneath the artery, and both being separated from the blood of the sinus by an endothelial lining supported by delicate fibrous tissue. In the sphenoidal fissure the fourth, frontal, and lachrymal nerves are arranged along its upper boundary in the order mentioned from within outward ; the supe- rior and inferior divisions of the oculo-motor, the nasal, and sixth nerves pass between the two heads of the external rectus, the nasal lying between the first two and the sixth most inferiorly. The ophthalmic vein leaves the orbit through this fissure internally to the sixth nerve.574 Tin: yKRVKS. The Fourth or Trochlear Nerve. Tlu- t'oiinh lu'vvi- i^calloil traclihur hocause its toiulon runs tliroiiirh a jiullev) arises in a >luin . olumii of cells almost oomimious with the third mieleiis, ami eoinmen>in;ue wiih thf intefior qiiailriirtMninal boily. Tlieiiee tlie root runs ilorso-laterally, aiul atti r tleseemlin>;- tor a short ilistaiioe erosses inwaril in the valviila. Avhere it Jeeus'^ates with its lellow, ami einer>ies as a sUanler round bundle immediately behind the testis on the opposite side tVom its nm leti-. Tlu' decnssjition ot' this nerve is altogether a ]>ei"uliar feature. It now |\isses outwanl across the su})erior ]HHlunele of the eerebellum. and forward iMund the outer side of the cms cerelui t.> pii rcc the dura undercover of the tVei' marsrin of the tentorium, external to the po>terior elinoid process and third nerve. It is embeilded iu tlir outer wall of the cavernous sinus between the oeulo-inotor and ophthalmic nerves, atterward crossiuii- the oculo-motor to lie in the inner angle of the sphenoidal tissure through which it reaches tlie orbit. Here it runs inward above the levator palpebiiv supcriori> and i- ili>tribuieil to the obliquus sujvrior on its upper (^orbital surface. The Fifth or Trifacial Nerve. The titth nerve is called f/ /na <(!; because it has thrtc grand divisions, which are distributed to the jf(ic«-; and sometimes it is called iric/cininal tlnve double " or *' three twins'"), referring to the arrangi>ment of the divisions on the two sides of the head. It is mixed in I'uuction. closely resembling a sjiinal nerve in that the motor and sensory roots arise se}x\r-atcly from the eneephalon. the sensory root [Xissessing a giuiglion similar in etmstitution and development to that of a posterior spinal nerve-root, while the motor root joins the nerve on the distal side of the ganglion. The uioiar root arises from a group of cells lying deeply in the floor of the fourth ventricle at a point corresponding to the lateritl ivcess. It is joined by the (h'sceuding root which appears to arise from cells in the aqtieduct and by a c/ tw<"</ motor root of doubtful connections. Most of the tibves of the sensory portion are traceable into the so-called a.-icemllng roof which appears as a crescentic baud of tibivs oiu>ide the gxdatiuous substance of Kolando. The libivs appear to arise as axis-i^ylinder processes of the cells of the Gasserian gtiuglion and to terminate as minutely bratiching pro- cesses round the cells of the gidatinous substance and funiculi gracilis and cuneatus (eompire sensory spinal nerve-ivotV Matiy sensory fibivs end in the superior stnson/ jiMc/t «,■>', which lies just outside the motor nucleus. The crossed sensory and cerebellar roots aiv iniperftvtly nnderst<.xxl. Thus, then, two roots can be setMi iMursing tlmnigh the {x^ns fivni wliose ven- tral surlace they emerge near its anterior boriler. The largin-. sensory iwt ^x^rtio major) being ventix^-latcfal to the smaller, mt>tor rt>ot (portio minor). The larger mut runs forwaixl beneath the tentorium, wliere, just under the fourth nerve and near the apex of the petrous jxirtion of the temjx^ral Ixine, it enters a iveess between the two layers of the dura (Meckel's spice). Here the larger root spreads out, forming a plexiforra network, and enter? the Gasserian gtiuglion. The smaller root, from being dorsal to the portio major at its origin, winds spiittlly ivund tlic latter, gjtining its inticr and then its ventral (under) suriace, and Classes beneath the Gasserian irauclion to join the thiixl division only, which emerges ftvm that structinv. The Gasserian or Semilimar Ganglion.—This body lies on a special depression on the anterior surlace of the petivus bone; it is ereseent-sha|>ed, the ei^>nvexity being directtxl forwaiil. Its surfaces are adherent to the dura, flattened, and much striattxl; and it is rich in gtinglionie cells. It is joined by filaments f rom the carotid plex:us of the sympithetic, and semis recurrent fibres to the dura.675 THi: ] II I II (,i: 'll:IIA(IAL NlJJtVJJ. From ite convex twjrder the setwioiy portion of the trifacial emerges in three triinlcn, the opfithalmie, superior rauxilUry, and inferior maxillary or niandihular and tlie thinl of thew: alone ii y,\n<A \iy the motor root after its emergence. ' Hl£«V£ A geaeral idea of tlie cutaneous distribution of these nerves^ will fje L'Ot from a glance at tig. 637. eiT*L roKAUCM EflcncH TO inrRA- TliOCHLCAH eifPAATOOCHLCitR Of rirrn utmc jrO OF6IT«L EFAtlCH »MTM«LIWIC OI/ISI<3n oivision XiCieuLAR OIVISIOM COUBSC Cf MOTOR ROOT I^. «l*,-Opb»haImf<:- dJrtsl'/n <?r the (!irflSs<?Lst tttry*. (T«i(tn«.) . 151""^ Ophthalmic DlTiirixm of the Fifth Nerve TFig. 638).—The fin.t or ophttialm.c (" eye "j division of the fifth nerve i« a flattened trunk, oneTochtng'THE NERVES. 576 which runs forward and upward in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus under the fourth nerve. Between layers of dura it reaches the s])henoidal fissure, which it ])asses through in three divisions, the lachrymal, frontal, and nasal. It gives offsets to the third, fourth, and sixth nerves, as these enter the orbit. The Lachrymal Nerve is the outermost of these three divisions. It occupi(>s a separate sheath of dura, and passes by the outer angle of the sphenoidal fissure into the orbit. Here it runs along the upper border of the external rectus to the outer and the upper angle of the cavity to reach the lachrymal (" tear ") gland. Just behind the gland it gives off a branch to join the orbital branch of the supe- rior maxillary nerve, and branches to the lachrymal gland and conjunctiva, and terminates by piercing the external tarsal ligament to supply the sJcin of the upper eyelid, where it communicates with the facial nerve. The Frontal Nerve, the middle and largest division of the ojihthalmic, also enters the orbit close to the roof of the sphenoidal fissure. It runs forward on the levator palpebra; superioris, between it and the periosteum. Midway in its passage through the orbit it gives off the supratrochlear nerve, and then, assuming the name supraorbital, runs straight to the supraorbital foramen. Through this foramen it leaves the orbit accompanied by the supraorbital branch of the oph- thalmic artery, and divides into an internal and an external branch, the external branch being the larger. These pierce the orbicularis palpebrarum and frontalis very obliquely, supplying the skin of the front part of the scalp, the external branch being traceable as far as the lambdoidal suture. The supratrochlear nerve, springing from the frontal, as above described, runs forward and inward toward the pulley of the superior oblique. Near the pulley it sends a twig to join the infratrochlear branch of the nasal; and then, passing over the superior oblique tendon, it lies between the orbicularis palpebrarum and the bone, as it passes over the inner angle of the orbital arch. Here it supplies twigs to the eyelid and conjunctiva, and then pierces the frontalis to reach the skin of the forehead over the glabella. It is accompanied l)y the frontal artery. These, like all other sensory branches of the fifth nerve, ct)mmunicate with the facial. The Nasal Nerve enters the orbit between the two heads of the external rectus and two divisions of the ocnlo-motor nerve. At fii'st on the outer side of the optic nerve, it crosses it obliquely beneath the rectus superior to reach the anterior internal orbital canal, through which, accompanied liy the anterior eth- moidal vessels, it enters the cranium. In the orbit it gives of!' the sensory root to the ciliary ganglion, two long ciliary nerves, and the infratrochlear nerve. In the cranium it runs for^\'ard on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid and passes to the nasal fossa through the nasal slit. In the roof of the nose it gives off an internal or septal branch, and an external branch, and passes onward as the anterior or superficial branch in a groove on the nasal bone to become cutaneous by passing between that bone and the lateral cartilage of the nose. Branches.—(«) The branch to the ciliary r/avf/lion is a slender filament, one- quarter inch long, which is given off when the nasal nerve lies between the heads of the external rectus. It furnishes the sensory root of the ganglion. (b) One or two long ciliary nerves pierce the sclerotic near tiie optic nerve. (e) The infredrochlear nerve runs forward beneath the superior oblique, receives a communicating branch from the supratrochlear, and, passing beneath the pulley to the inner canthus, supjilies the conjunctiva, caruncle, lachrymal sac, and skin of the eyelids and nose. {d) The internal or septal branch supplies the mucous membrane on the upper and anterior part of the nasal septiun. (e) The external branch supplies the outer wall of the nose, including the anterior ends of the middle and inferior turbinated bones. (/) The anterior or superficial branch, pierces the compressor naris and is dis- tributed to the skin of the lower ]iart of the nose. Sporadic Ganglia connected with the Fifth Nerve.—Thci'c are four small gan-THE FIFTH OR TRIFACIAL NERVE. 577 glia connected with the tiftli nerve—the ophtlialniic, splienopuhitine, otic, and .sub- maxillary. Each of these has three roots, derived from motor, sensory, and sympathetic nerves respectively, and a varying number of branches of distribu- tion. Their cells are multipolar, thus resembling the cells of symjiathetic ganglia, and diifering from those of the ganglia of the posterior spinal nerve-roots and (irasserian ganglion. The Ophthalmic, Ciliary, or Lenticula.r Ganglion (Fig. Go-")).—The ciliary gan- glion is a small reddish body about the size of a large pin-head (one-twelfth of an inch in long diameter), compressed laterally, and ([uadrilateral in sha|)e, present- ing four angles. It lies at the back of the orbit, between the external rectus and the optic nerve, and is often in contact with the ophthalmic artery. Its long (sensory) root is derived from the nasal nerve, entering its supero- posterior angle. Often incorporated with this or entering the ganglion by its side is the sympathetic rt)ot, derived from the cavernous plexus ; and its motor root is a short, comparatively thick (jifset from the branch of the tliird nerve to the inferior oblique, which enters the postero-ijiferior angle of the ganglion. Fig. 639.—Maxillary division of the trifacial nerve and Medici's ganglion. (Testnt.) From the anterior angles of the ganglion spring its branches of distribution I called the >s\\orf cU'mvy nerves. There are at first six to eight of them, arranged in two groups, superior and inferior, the inferior group being joined by the long I ciliary nerves from the nasal. They pass along the np]ier and lower surfaces of 1 the optic nerve, subdividing until about twelve to eighteen tine filaments reach the sclerotic, and ])ierce it in a circle round the optic nerve. They supply nerves of ordinary sensation and trophic nerves to the eyeball (derived from the nasal), motor nerves to the ciliary muscle and sphincter iridis (derived from the oculo- motor), and sympathetic nerves to the dilatator fibi'cs of the iris. I Ths Second or Maxillary Division of the Fifth Nerve (Fig. 039).—The maxillary Unperior tnaxUlarji) nerve is intermediate in size and position between the two other divisions of the fifth nerve, and like the first is purely sensory. After a 37678 THE NERVES. very short intracranial course it passes through the foramen rotundum, crosses the sphenomaxillary fossa, and enters the orbit through the sphenomaxillary fissure to occupy the infraorbital groove in its floor. It is here joined by the infraorbital branch of the internal maxillary artery, and together they enter the infraorbital canal to reach the face beneath the orbit, where the nerve diyides into its terminal branches. Branches.—(a) Recurrent branch. AVithin the cranium it gives a recurrent branch to the dura and middle meningeal artery. (6) The orbital branch (temporo-malar nerve) is given off in the sphenomaxil- lary fossa. It enters the orbit through the sphenomaxillary fissure, and diyides into two branches, temporal and mctlar. The temporal branch runs upward along the outer wall of the orbit, giyes a communicating filament to the lachrymal nerve, and ])assing obliquely through tlie periosteum enters the sphenomalar canal. It thus passes to the temporal fossa, where, running upward between the temporal muscle and the bone, it pierces the deep and superficial layers of the temporal fascia very obliquely, and emerges subcutaneously one inch above the zygoma, where its twigs jJerforate the orbicularis palpebrarum to the skin, communicating with the facial and auriculo- temporal nerves. The mctlar branch (ramus subcutaneus make) runs for\yard in the fat of the orbit, and pierces through the malar canal to the skin of the face oyer the malar bone. (c) The sphenopalatine branches are two short, stout twigs to Meckel's gan- glion, with which they will be described. POSTERIOR JACOBSON'S DENTAL SUPERIOR CERVICAL PLEXUS GANGLION OF THE SYMPATHETIC Fig. 640.—Dental branches of superior maxillary nerve and sphenopalatine ganglion. (Testut.l (el) The posterior superior dental nerves (Fig. 640), the last branches given off in the sphenomaxillary fossa, are usually two in number, or may arise together. Running downward on the back of the superior maxilla, in the grooves which lead to the posterior dental canals, they give fibres to the gums and buccal mucous membrane (nervuli gingivales) and then enter the.se canals to supjdy the molar teeth and antrum. (e) The middle superior dental nerve is giyen off in the hind part of the infra- orbital canal. It descends in a minute canal or groove in the outer wall of the antrum to supply the bicuspid teeth. (f) The anterior superior dental nerve commences in tlie fore part of the infra- orbital canal. It also descends in the wall of the antrum, dividing into two579 THE FIFTH OR TRIFACIAL NERVE. Ijranches : a nasal branch whicli supjilies the mucous membrane of the anterior part of the inferior meatus and floor of the nasal fossa ; and a dental branch to the incisor and canine teeth. These three dental nerves form loops fthe superior dental plexus) in the minute canals provided for them in the maxilla, and from the loops filaments pass to the foramina at the tips of the fangs, and supply the dental pulp. iff) Infraorbital Nerve.—From the time the maxillary nerve enters theinfra- orljital canal it is called the infraorbital nerve, and under that name it emerges on the face, where it lies deeply under cover of the levator labii snperioris proprius. Here it divides into seven or more branches. Two of these, called inferior pal- pebral, turn upward to the skin and conjunctiva of the lower eyelids ; two or three pass inward between the fibres of the levator labii snperioris alaeque nasi to the side of the nose (lateral nasal); and three or four superior labial l^ranches run downward, piercing the fil:>res of the elevators of the upper lip and angle of the mouth to the skin of the lips and cheek, and sending large twigs to the mucous membrane. These infraorbital nerves communicating with the facial form the infra- orbital plexus. The Sphenopalatine or Meckel's Ganglion (Figs. 640, 641).—The sphenopala- tine, or Meclrel's ffanfflion, is a small, reddish, triangular body, one-fifth of an inch in its long diameter, and flattened at the sides. It is situated in the npper part of the sphenomaxillary fjssa, just under the superior maxillary nerve, where it is embedded in fat and surrounded by the terminal branches of the internal max- illary artery. Only its posterior segment contains nerve-cells. Its sensory root is represented by two short, stout nerves, which attach its two superior angles to the superior maxillary nerve, forming its sphenopedatine breincher.. The greater part of these roots passes on without interruption in ganglion-cells into the palatine, nasal, and pharyngeal branches of the ganglion. Its motor rind sympathetic roots are contained in the Vidian nerve. The Vidian Nerve is a compound nerve, formed ])y the junction of the great superficial and grent deep petrosed nerves. Tracing the Vidian nerve backward to its_ sources, it leaves the postero-superior angle of the ganglion, passes through the Vidian canal (accompanied by the artery of the same name) in which it gives ofi" small twigs to the back of the nose and pharynx, and divides into two branches.680 THE NERVES. Of these the r/zvof supcrfcinl petrosal nerve enters the cranium through the carti- lage which closes the foramen lacerum medium by the outer side of the internal carotid artery, and, passing backward and outward in a groove on the ])etrous bone under the Gasserian ganglion, enters the hiatus Fallopii to join the genicu- late ganglion of the facial nerve. It receives a twig from the tymjtanic branch of the glossopharyngeal. The great deep peti-oml nerve, which joins this to form the Vidian nerve just outside the Vidian canal, can be traced to the plexus of the sympathetic on the internal carotid artery. Some works describe this as the carotid branch of the Vidian, and give the name of great deep petrosal to the twig fi'om the glossopharyngeal which joins the great superficial petrosah he braiiehes of elisfributioii of 3IcckePs gaiajlion are grouped as ascending, internal, descending, and posterior. (a) Ascending Branches.—These are the orbital branches, two or three exceed- ingly minute twigs whicli pass through the sphenomaxillary fissure to the perios- teum of the orbit, and the mucous membrane of the posterior ethmoidal and sphenoidal sinuses. (6) Internal branches are partly derived from the ganglion ; but are largely traceable over its inner surface into the sensory roots. They are svperior nasal and nasopKikdine. The superior nascd nerves are several small twigs which enter the nose through the sphenopalatine foramen, to sujiply the mucous membrane over the upper and back ])art of the superior and middle turbinated bones and septum, as well as the posterior ethmoidal cells. The neisopalcdine nerve (Fig. 628) passes to the nasal septum, also through the sphenopalatine foramen. It runs downward and forward in a groove on the vomer between the periosteum and mucous membrane, contributing some small scj^tal branches and communicating with the nasal branch of the anterior superior dental nerve. The two nasopalatine nerves, one on each side of the nasal septum, thus reach the median segments of the anterior palatine canal (foramina of Scarpa), through which they pass to the roof of the mouth, the left nerve occupying the anterior foramen. In the lower part of the anterior palatine canal they unite in a plexiform net- work, and are then distributed to the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth, conmiunicating with the anterior palatine nerve. (c) Descending Branches (Fig. 629).—These are the three palatine nerves, ante- rior or great, posterior or small, and exti'rnal. They are frequently given ofi' as one trunk. The great or anterior pcdcdine nerve, springing from the lower angle of Meckel's ganglion, descends in the posterior palatine canal, and runs forward, in grooves, on the hard palate, supplying the gums and roof of the mouth, and communicating with the nasopalatine nerve. It contributes inferior naml branches to the back part of the inferior turbinated bone and middle and inferior meatus. The S7ncdl or pxjsterior palatine verve descends in one of the accessory palatine canals to the tonsil, uvula, and soft palate, and through it motor fibres j)ossibly pass from the fixcial nerve to the levator palati and azygos uvulw, though the pars accessoria ad vagum is now regarded as supplying these muscles. The external pedatine nerve occupies another accessory palatine canal, in which it descends to the soft palate and tonsil. It is occasionally absent. ((/) Posterior Branches.—The twigs supplied by the Vidian in the Vidian canal to the up])ei' ])art of the nose arc derived from the sphenopalatine roots of the ganglion, and only accompany the Vidian nerve. The phariingeed brancli. springs from the ganglion beside the Vidian, with which it may l)e incorporated. It runs l)ackward in the pterygopalatine canal with the vessel of that name to the posterior nares and nasojiharynx, Fustachian tube, and sphenoidal sinuses. The Third, Inferior Maxillary, or Mandibular Division of the Fifth Nerve (Fig. 642).—The mandibtdar division of the fifth nerve is larger than either of the581 THE FIFTH OR TRIFACIAL NERVE. otliers, and is formed by the third segment of the sensory root with the entire motor root, the two leaving the cranium through the foramen ovale, and uniting almost immediately afterward to form a single mixed nerve-trunk. About one- fourth of an inch below the base of the skull this short trunk divides under cover of the external pterygoid muscle into a smaller or anterior, and a larger or posterior, division. Befoi'e it divides, the trunk gives off a recurrent nerve, and the nerve to the internal pterygoid. The recurrent branch enters the cranium through the foramen spinosum, and sends a twig to the lining membrane of the mastoid cells, and another to the sub- stance of the petrous bone. The nerve to the internal pterygoid passes under the posterior border of that muscle supplying it on its deep surface. Near the origin of the nerve and lying on it is the otic ganglion, to which it contributes its sensory root. The smaller or anterior division of the mandibular trunk is mainly motor in function. Its branches are as follow : (rt) The deep temporal nerves, anterior and posterior. Of these the posterior frequently springs from one common trunk with the masseteric nerve. They run upward over the upper border of the external pterygoid muscle and between the tem])oral muscle and the bone, supplying the latter"muscle on its deep surface. (b) The masseteric nerve, frequently starting in common with the posterior deep temporal nerve, passes over the upper border of the external pterygoid, and through the sigmoid notch of the mandible behind the insertion of the tem- poral muscle, accompanied by the masseteric vessels. It enters the deep surface of the masseter muscle. It supplies a filament to the temporomaxillary articula- tion.THE NERVES. 582 (e) The external pteri/goid nerve is given oif from the long buccal nerve, ^^ hi(•h also contributes some fibres to the temporal muscle. (d) The long buccal nerve, with the excejrtion of those branches just mentioned, is purely sensory. It passes between the two heads of the external pterygoid muscle, and runs downward and forward under cover of the temporal muscle and anterior border of the masseter to the buccinator. Between the masseter and buccinator it divides into branches to the skin and mucous membrane of the cheek, the latter piercing the fibres of the buccinator. It communicates with the facial, forming a plexus around the facial vein called the l)uccal plexus. The larger or posterior division is almost entirely derived from the sensory root, the only motor fil)res it contains passing along the inferior dental nerve to form its mylohyoid branch. Its branches are as follow : (o) The auriculotemporal nerve arises by two roots which usually enclose the middle meningeal artery. It passes backward and outward close under the tem- poromaxillary articulation, then upward between it and the external auditory meatus, under cover of the upper part of the parotid gland. Emei-ging from under the gland it crosses the root of the zygoma with the superficial temporal artery sliglitly behind which it lies, and divides into superficial temporal branches to the skin of the temple. In this course it gives off (1) articular twigs, one or two fine filaments to the temporomaxillary articulation. (2) Communicating branches, consisting of one or two stout branches to the facial nerve ; and slender filaments to the otic ganglion, which latter are im- portant because they conduct secretory fibres from the glossopharyngeal nerve to the parotid gland, by way of the lesser petrosal nerve, otic ganglion, and parotid branches of the auriculotemporal. (3) Two nerves to the meatus pass between the bony and cartilaginous part of the external auditory meatus, and supply the skin of the meatus, contributing a twig to the tympanic membrane. (4) Several parotid branches pass from the nerve itself, or its communicating branches to the facial nerve, into the gland substance. (5) Two anterior auricular branches sujjply the skin over the tragus and upper part of the pinna. (6) The superficial temporal nerve is the termination of the auriculotemporal. The posterior division breaks up into branches which cross the posterior branch of the temporal artery, the anterior division communicates with the temporal branches of the facial nerve. They supjjly the skin of the temporal region. (b) The Inferior Dental Nerve (Fig. 643) is the largest branch of the mandib- ular division of the fifth nerve. It emerges from under the lower border of the external pterygoid muscle, and running downward upon the internal lateral liga- ment of the lower jaw, with the inferior dental arteiy behind and the lingual nerve in front of it, it enters the inferior dental canal. Before entering the canal it gives off the mylohyoid nerve. In the inferior dental canal it runs forward toward the sym]ihysis menti, sup- ]ilying branches to the teeth and gums, and opposite the mental foramen it divides into a mental and an incisive branch. The incisive branch runs forward in the con- tinuation of the dental canal to supply the caTiine and incisor teeth and cor- responding part of the gums ; while the mental branch appears on the face by issuing through the mental foramen Avith a companion artery, and, under cover of the depressor anguli oris, divides into a descending branch to the integument of the chin, and two ascending branches to the skin and mucous membrane of the lower lip. It communicates Avith the supramandibular division of the facial nerve. The mylohyoid branch of the inferior dental nei've is rather to be regarded as coming straight from the motor root and only accompanying the inferior dental in its sheath as far as the inferior dental canal. It occupies the mylohyoid groove with an arterv of the same name, and runs in the recess under the mvlohvoid583 THE FIFTH OR TRIFACIAL NERVE. raii~cle and between it and the mandihle, -applying that mu~cle and the anterior belly of the digastric. (e) The Lingual (wrongly called the gustatory) Nerve (Figs. 643, 644) lies at first under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, in front of and a little deeper than the inferior dental nerve, to which it is connected by a short branch. Here, also, it is joined at an acute angle by the chorda tympani nerve from the fiK'ial. It runs downward and forward on the internal pterygoid muscle and mandibular attachment of the superior constrictor of the pharynx, and reaches the inner side of the lower jaw, close under the last molar tooth, where it lies immediately under the mucous membrane, and may be readily reached by the surgeon, or injured in careless dentistry. It then lies between the hyoglossus and mylohyoid muscles above the deep portion of the submaxillary gland, and crosses AVharton's duct obliquely as it bencls upward toward the tip of the tongue. Fig. 643.—Mandibular division of trifacial nerve, seen from the middle line. The small figure is an enlarged view of the otic ganglion. (Testut.) Its communicating/ branches are those above mentioned—namely, to the inferior dental, and by the chorda tympani to the facial nerve, in addition to which there are the motor and sensory roots to the submaxillary ganglion, and one or two fila- ments which, under the mylohyoid mtiscle, join it with the hypoglossal nerve. It distributes twigs to the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth between the tongue and the gums, a branch to the sublingual gland (from the chorda tympani nerve), and ends by breaking tip into fibres for the anterior two-thirds of the tongue, supplying chiefly the fungiform and filiform papilke. The Submandibular (Submaxillary) Ganglion (Fig. 643).—In a small triangular space under cover of the mylohvoid muscle, having the lingual nerve above, AVhar- ton's duct below, and the submaxillary gland behind, lies a reddish body about the size of a pin-head, the suhmandibidar {submaxillary) ganglion. Its roots are repre- sented by one branch (or several) running downward and forward to it from theTHE NERVES. 584 lingual, conveyinsx to it chorda-tym]iani and trifacial fil^ro?^ (motor and sensory), and filaments which join it from the sympathetic plexus round the facial artery. It distrihiifcs branches to the submaxillary gland and Wharton's duct, and a branch to the sublingual gland, which reaches the gland by joining the lingual, assuming the appearance of another root. The Otic Ganglion (Fig. 643).—The otic (" ear ") f/ang/ion is a small reddish gi'ay, oval body, compressed from side to side, and about one-sixth of an inch in its long diameter. It is closely attached to or may surround the nerve to tiie internal pterygoid muscle, lying on the inner side of the mandibular trunk Fig. &«.—Nerves of tliu t.jngue. (Testut.) close to the foramen ovale. Behind it is the middle meningeal artery, and on its inner side are the Eustachian tube and tensor palati muscle. Its motor and sensory roots reach it through the nerve to the internal ptery- goid miiscle ; but it is also connected with the facial and glossopharyngeal nerve through the small superficial petrosal nerve. From the ^jlexus round the middle meningeal artery it receives its si/inpafhefic root. It distributeshrnl^ches to join the auriculotemporal, by which route the parotid gland is supplied from the glossopharyngeal nerve ; also muscular twigs to the tensor palati and tensor tympani, and a communicating filament to the chorda585 THE SEVENTH OB EACE4.L NERVE. tvmjiani nerve. Of the muscular fibres most may l)e traced to the trunk of the mandibular division of the fifth nerve, Avithout interruption in the ganglion-cells. The Sixth or Abducent Nerve. The sixth nerve (Fig. 636) is purely motor, supplying the external rectus muscle of the eyeball. Its nucleus consists of a compact group of cells in the floor of the fourth ventricle, which forms the prominence known as the eminentia teres. It is in series with the third, fourth, and twelfth nuclei, and is surrounded bv the seventh or facial roots, but has no connection with them. Its most im- portant connection is with the opposite oculomotor root by fibres which cross over and ascend in the posterior longitudinal bundle ; and thus the nucleus of the sixth nerve supplies the extei'ual rectus of its own side directly, and the internal rectus of the opposite side indirectly, through the opposite third nerve. Tiie nerve roots run ventrolaterally through the pons to emerge as a flattened band from the groove between the oblongata and pons, just external to the ante- rior pyramid. This soon becomes rounded and pierces the dura at the side of the dorsum sellse, behind and internal to the fifth nerve. It passes through the cavernous sinus, lying under the carotid artery, and gains the orbit through the sphe- noidal fissure, where it lies between the two heads of the external rectus, beneath the inferior division of the third nerve, and above the ophthalmic vein. It then runs forward on the inner surface of the external rectus muscle, which it supplies. In the cavernous sinus the sixth nerve receives filameuts from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic and, as it enters the orbit, it communicates with, the ophthalmic division of the fifth. The Seventh or Facial Nerve. The seventh nerve (Fig. 645), excepting what will be described as the pars intermedia, is purely motor to the face muscles. Its nucleus lies deeply embedded in the pons on a level with the strise acustici?e. It is in line with the motor nuclei of the fifth and ninth. The root of this nerve pursues a very circuitous course through the pons, running first dorsally, then upward, next laterally above, and finally ventrally on the outside of the sixth nucleus. It emerges from the groove between the pons and oblongata, external to the olivary body and in the same transverse plane as the eighth nerve. Between its superficial origin and that of the eighth nerve, springs a small bundle called by Wrisberg the pars intermedia. The seventh, eighth, and pars intermedia run together outward into the internal auditory raeatus, the seventh nerve lying in a groove on the upper and fore part of the auditory nerve, the pars intermedia being between them. The pars intermedia, in spite of some apparent connections with the eighth nerve, has no real continuity with it. It arises from the upper part of the glosso- pharyngeal nucleus, joins the facial nerve immediately after the latter enters the aqueductus Fallopii, and is probably the main constituent of the chorda tym- paui nerve. At the bottom of the internal auditory meatus the facial nerve enters the aqueductus Fallopii. In this canal it runs first outward between the cochlea and vestibule till it abuts on the inner wall of the tympanum ; backward in the sub- stance of the inner tympanic wall, above the fenestra ovalis, being here sepai'ated from the tympanum by a thin lamina of bone and the lining membrane of the middle ear ; and lastly it turns somewhat acutely downward l^ehind the pyramid and posterior tympanic wall to appear at the base of the skull through the stylo- mastoid foramen. At the point where it l)ends sharply backward the bend is capped by a some- what conical swelling called the genioilede r/anr/lion. On issuing from the petrous bone the facial nerve runs downward and for- M-ard through the substance of the parotid gland, superficial to the external586 THE NER VES.THE SEVEXTH OR FACIAL XERVE. carotid arten", and behind the ramua of the lower jaw divide- into a superior or temporofacial. and an inferior or cervicofacial division, which break up into the numerous branches distributed to the face and submandibular region. The hranchea of the facial nerve may be divided into three groups : (J.) those given ofP in its course through the petrous bone, (B) those arising from the trunk at the base of the skull, and i C) those springing from its two great terminal divisions. (A) Bra>s'ches of the Facial Xerte its Cottrse through the Petrous Boxe.—(a) Filaments connect the geniculate ganglion with the ves- tibular division of the auditory. (h) The great superficial petrosal nerve Ls the largest of the three branches given off from the geniculate ganglion. It has been described with Meckel's ganglion, of which it forms the motor root. (c) The small superficial petrosal nerve is also given olf from the geniculate ganglion. It traverses a canal just external to the hiatus Fallopii, where it is joined by a branch from the t}-mpanic plexus of the glossopharyngeal. It goes to the otic ganglion, leaving the cranium in the interval between the great ^\^ng of the sphenoid and petrous bone, or through a small canal beside the foramen ovale. (d) The external superficial petrosal nerve, the last of the three branches from the geniculate ganglion, traverses a small canal in the petroas bone, and passes to the svmpathetic plexus on the middle meningeal artery. It is not constant. {e) A branch to the stapedius mascle is given off from the facial ner\'e as it descends behind the pyramid. (f) The chorda tympani nerve, given off from the facial at the lower end of the aqueductus Fallopii and containing nearly the whole pars intermedia, enters the back part of the tympanum, crosses that cavity on the inner side of the handle of the malleus under a covering of the lining membrane, and gains the base of the cranium by a canal at the inner side of the Glaserian fissure. It runs downward and forward under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, and joins the lingual nerve, after receiving twigs from the otic ganglion. It is conducted Ijy the lingual nerve to the submaxillary ganglion, and to the anterior two-thirds of the tongue, forming the path for the sense of taste bet^veen that section of the organ and the glossophar^'ugeal nucleus. (g) Just before leaving the aqueductus Fallopii the facial nerve gives a twig to the aurictdar branch of the pneumogastric, as it courses through the temporal bone. iB) Branches Gm:x off between the Base of the Skull and its FiXAL Dn'isiox.—(a) The posterior auricular nerve commences just after the facial nerve has appeared at the base of the skull. It passes backward in the deep recess between the mastoid process and the external ear, communicating with the auricular branch of the pneumogastric, and sends a veiiical branch upward to the retrahens aurem, attollens aurem, and small muscles on the cranial surface of the auricle, and a horizontal branch backward over the temporal bone to the occipitalis. It communicates with the great auricular and small occipital nerves. (b) Just below the preceding nerve arises the nerve to the posterior belly of the digastric. One of its branches frequently joins the glossopharyngeal nerve. (c) The nerve to the stylohyoid rauscle may be given off along with the last in one common trunk or separately at the same level. id.) A lingual branch is described. It passes on the outer side of the stjdo- pharyngeus muscle to the side of the pharynx, where it is joined by twigs from the glossopharyngeal. It then passes between the palatoglossus and the tonsil, and at the base of the tongue divides into filaments to the mucous membrane and palatoglossus and st\doglossus muscles. (C) The two great Terminal Dr'isioxs of the facial are distributed in a manner which mav be summarized as follows :588 THE NER VES. Running forward in the ^ul)stance of the parotid olaiid, in whicli they cros.< superficially to the external carotid artery and temporo-niaxillary vein, the tcm- jyorofacidl division after receiving a stout branch from the auriculo-temjioral nerve, subdivides into temporal, malar, and infraorbital branches, and tlie cervico- facial division into buccal, mpramaiuJibular, and irframaxillary branches ; the parotid duct sej^arating the infraorbital from the buccal nerve. Leaving out the inframandibular nerve, these branches spread all over the face, each occupving mainly the region which its name indicates. They form, by interlacing witli each other and with the various cutaneous branches of the fifth nerve, an intricate net- work called the jjr.s^ a/i.se/v'H?/.si (" goose's foot"), and supply all the face-muscles, including the buccinator, the frontalis, and the anterior muscles of the auricle. The inframandibular brancli emerges from the parotid gland behind the angle of the lower jaw, runs downward and forward under the platysma over the inframandibular and adjacent region of the neck, communicating freely with the great auricular and superficial cervical nerves, and supply ing the platvsma on its under surface. It should further be said that the zygomatic muscles and levator labii supe- rioris lie superficial to the infraorbital branch, and the risorius, depressor anguli oris, and depressor labii inferioris cross the supramandibular branch ; but with these exceptions the branches of the facial nerve are superficial. Beaxches fkom the Temporofacial Divisiox.—The temporal branch of the temporofacial division of the facial nerve passes upward thrnugh the parotid gland, over tlie zygoma, and divides intf) branches, which supply the orbicularis palpebrarum, frontalis, corrugator supercilii, attrahens and attollens aurem, and small muscles of the front of the pinna. Its branches form numerous communica- tions with each other, with the malar branch, and with the auriculotemporal, tem- poral, lachrymal, and sttpraorbital branches of the fifth nerve. Xotc.—The branches to the frontalis and orbicularis palpebrarum are derived from the nucleus of the third nerve. The malar brancli runs forward over the malar bone, and is distributed mainly to the orl)icularis ]>alpel)raruni. It sends filaments to both eyelids and communi- cates freely with the tem]ioral and infraorViital branches of the facial, and the supraorbital, lachrymal, malar, and infraorbital branches of the fifth nerve. The infraorbital brancli emerges from the anterior border of the parotid gland just above the parotid duct, and divides into branches which radiate to the region of the face between the orbit and the mouth. They pass under the zygomatic muscles and the levator labii superioris, under the latter muscle forming with the infraorbital branch of the fifth nerve the infraorbital j^/r.r?/.s. It communicates also with the neighboring focial l)ranches (malar and bticcal) and with the buccal, malar, nasal, and infratrochlear In'anches of the fifth ; and supidies the zygomatic muscles, levator anguli oris, levator labii superioris, levator labii superioris alseqne nasi, pyramidalis nasi, compressor nasi, and depressor alee nasi; also the buc- ciuator and orbicularis oris. Branches fro5[ the Cervicofacial Division.—The cervicofacial division runs downward and forward in the parotid gland crossing the external carotid arterv. In the substance of the gland it receives fibres from the great auricular nerve. It divides into the following three branches : The buccal branch emerges from the parotid gland under the parotid duct, crosses the masseter muscle, and breaks up into twigs to the liuccinator and orbicularis oris. It communicates with neighboring branches of the facial and with the long buccal nerve. The supramandibular branch crosses the masseter muscle and facial vessels on the body of tlio mandible, and under the risorius and depressors of the lower lip passes toward the chin. It supplies the risorius, de2iressf)r anguli oris, depressor labii inferioris, and levator menti, and communicates with the liuccal and infra- mandibular branch of the facial and with the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve.THE EIGHTH OR A VDITOR Y NER VE. 589 The inframandibular branch ha.s already been sufficiently described. {l!^ote.—The fact that the frontalis, orbicularis palpebrarum, and corrugator supercilii, escape in cortical facial paralysis, furnishes clinical evidence of a con- nection between the facial nerve and the oculo-motor nucleus, which probably takes place through the posterior longitudinal bundle. The association of the movements of the lips and tongue, and the involvement of the orbicularis oris in bulbar paralvsis suggest that this muscle is supplied from the hypoglossal (twelfth) nucleus. This is probablv ettected by a communication from the nucleus of the twelfth to the facial nerve through the posterior longitudinal fasciculus.) The Eig-hth or Auditory Nerve. Nucleus of the Eighth or Auditory Nerve (Fig. 646).—The auditory nerve springs from the lower border of the pons, just external to the facial, by two bundles. The more lateral or posterior of these is mainly distributed to the AUDITORY NERVE Fig. 646.—Distribution of the auditory nerve. (Semidiagrammatic.) (Testut.) cochlea, and is regarded as the true nerve of hearing; the mesial or anterior bundle supplies the semicircular canals (except the posterior) and its function is to convey the sense of equilibrium. As these roots plunge into the pons, they separate so as to pass one on each side of the restiform bodv. The lateral or cochlear root is divisible into several parts. The outer fibres pass dorsally along the outer side of the restiform bodv, and enclose a large number of cells, similar to those of a spinal ganglion, which form the f/anglion of the cochlear root. Thence fibres pass dorsally to end in the dorsal nucleus and stri« medullares. The more mesial fibres of the cochlear root come into relation with a triangular group of cells, -which lies ventral to the restiform body and forms the accessory or ventral auditory nucleus. Other fibres pass bv the trapezium to the superior olive of the same and opposite sides. It is also connected witli the flocculus. The mesial or vestibular root passes to the inner side of the restiform body, between it and the ascending root of the fifth nerve. AVhen it reaches the dorsomesial side of the restiform bodv, most of its fibres bend caudallv, and runTHE NERVES. 590 along the inner side of the restiform body and cuneate nucleus forming the a.sr(ii(Ui)f/ root. The fibres of this ascending root probably end in arborizations round the cells of the cuneate nucleus. The rest of the fil)res of the vestibular root pass dorsally to end in the internal anditori/ or (Jor.^(tl nucleus, which is a large group of cells corresponding in position to the tubercuhim acusticum, and lying close to the floor of the ventricle dorsomesially to the restiform bodv. This nerve is homologous with the dorsal root of a spinal nerve, and the gang- lion radicis cochlearis, spiral ganglion of the cochlea, and vestibular ganglion together represent an intervertebral ganglion. On emerging from the pons the two roots unite to form one trunk, again dividing at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus. The trunk runs U2)ward, outward, and forward round the middle cerebellar ])eduncle to the internal auditory meatus, where it becomes con- cave on its upper surface and lodges the facial nerve, ])ars intermedia, and internal auditoiy artery in the groove so formed. It is united to these sti'uctures by loose connective tissue, which contains no nerve-fibres. At the bottom of this canal it divides into an upper, vestibular division to the utricle and ampullae of the superior and external semicircular canals, and a lower, cochlear divisiem to the saccule, ampulla of the posterior semicircular canal, and cochlea. Ninth, Tenth, and Eleventh Nerves. Nuclei of the Ninth, Tenth, and Vagus-accessory Portion of the Eleventh Nerves. —The various origins, motor and sensory, of these three nerves being all con- tinuous columns or series of cells and fibres, they are best described together, the distinction between the nerves being a matter of higher or lower jioint of origin and ultimate distribution. The sensory michus is an elongated column of cells mainly corresponding in position to the inferior fovea and trigonum vagi (or ala cincrea) in the floor of the fourth ventricle. It extends the whole length of the oblongata. In the lower jiart it lies dorsally to the twelfth nucleus, and dorso-laterally to the central canal; but as the central canal opens out into the fourth ventricle, it is shifted so as to lie laterally to the nucleus of the twelfth nerve, and close to the floor of the ven- tricle. From it bundles of fibres pass ventro-laterally to emerge from the side of the oblongata, between the olivary and restiform bodies, or further down between the last named structure and the lateral column. Tlie U])pcr bundles form the sensory fibres of the glossopharyngeal nerve, the lower are grouped into the pneiimogastric and pars accessoria ad vaguni. The asGcndinfi vaf/o-f/lossopharj/in/eal root (funiculus solitarins, fasciculus rotundus) is a well-marked rounded bundle of fibres, Avhich ascends on the outer side of the sensory nucleus from the funiculus gracilis and gelatinous substance of Rolando. Its main connections seem to be with the funiculi graciles of l)oth sides and with the opposite fillet. It contributes fibres to the pneumogastric, but mainly emerges as the upper bundle of the glosso]iharyngeal nerve. The motor nucleus ( nucleus anibiguus) is a column of large multijiolar cells, undoubtedly rejiresenting part of the ventral horn of the spinal cord. It lies deeply in the formatio reticularis of the oblongata in line with the nucleus of the facial nerve. From it the motor njots of the three nerves under consideration pass in bundles, first dorsally toward the floor of the ventricle, and then outward and ventrally in line with the sensory bundles. Connection of the Vac/ns-accessory with the Twelfth Nnclens.—'J'hc involvement of the palate and vocal cords in bulbar paralysis appears to indicate that the motor fibres to these structures, which rawh them through the vagus-accessory, are derived from the nucleus of the twelfth nerve. Nucleus of the Spined Portion of the Eleventh Nerve.—The spinal portion of the spinal accessory is a jnirely motor nerve. It arises from a distinct column of cells in the ventral horn of the cervical spinal cord. From this bundles of nerve-fibres pass upward for a little way, then dorso-laterally through the gray591 NIXTIl OR GLOSSOPHARYXGEAL yERVE. matter, to emerge from it at the junction ot'tlie two liorn.-; ; thence outward tliroiigh tlie crossed pyramidal tract and direct cerebellar tract to their suix-rficial origin, between the ligamentum denticulatum and dorsal nerve roots. It extends as low as the sixth or seventh cervical nerve. The Ninth or Glossopharyngeal Nerve. The glossofihari/ngeal ("tongue-pharynx") nerve (Fig. 647) is formed by the union of the upper five or six bundles of nerve-fibres, which arise from the side of the oblongata between the olivary and restiform bodies. It passes outward in front of the flocculus to the jugular foramen, by the middle compartment of which it leaves the cranium antero-internally to the vagus and spinal accessory, and in a special sheath of dura. In this foramen it lies in a groove or canal on the ])osterior border of the petrous boue, and here it possesses two successive gangliform enlargements, the jugular gangliou and petrous ganglion, respi-'ctively. It then passes for a short distance downward between the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein, lying at first close to the vagus. It soon winds forward, tuider the styloid process and its muscles and superficial to the internal carotid artery, till, reachiug the lower border of the stylopharyngeus muscle, it runs forward on it to the back of the tongue, where, under cover of the hyoglossus, it breaks up into its terminal branches. The jugular ganglion is situated at the upper margin of the jugular foramen. It is very small, not constant, only involves the posterior filjres of the nerve, and gives oif no branches. It is regarded as a displaced portion of the lower ganglion, and together they are taken to represent the ganglion on the sensory root of a spinal nerve. The petrous ganglion lies in a groove on the petrous bone at the lower margin of the jugular foramen. It is not more than one-fourth of an inch long, and involves the whole nerve. It gives off the tympanic nerve, and twigs which communicate with the ])neumogastric and sympathetic. Bra>'CHES.—(ri) Meningeal branches are distributed to tlie pia and arachnoid meml)ranes within the cranium. (6) Tlie tympanic branch (nerve of Jacobson) is a minute l>ut important nerve, which is given off from the petrous ganglion. It enters the tympanum through a small foramen situated on the ridge between the carotid canal and jugular fossa, and on the promontory divides into several branches, which form the f;/mpanic plexus. Of these the principal branch pierces the roof of the tympanum to join the snudl petrosal nerve, of which it probably forms the main constituent. By this means glossopharyngeal fibres pass to the otic ganglion and so to the par<jtid gland. Another filament joins the great superficial petrosal nerve; and a twig called the small deep petrosal nerve joins the carotid plexus of tlie sympathetic. In addition to these, filaments are distributed to the lining mem- brane of the mastoid cells, the fenestra oralis, fenestra, rotunda, and Eustachian tube. (c) Three communicating branches arise from the petrous ganglion, namelv, filaments to the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, the auricular branch of the vagus, and to the root-ganglion of that nerve. Immediately below the petrous ganglion a twig is given off to the lingual Ijranch of the facial nerve. (<-/) A muscular branch is .~n])plied lo the styIo])haryngeus, which also sends filaments to the mucous membraue of the pharynx. (e) Pharyngeal branches, two or three in number, spring from the nerve just below the petrous ganglion. The main branch passes downward over the internal carotid artery, and joins the ]iharvngeal branch of the vagus to form the ]>haryngeal plexus with the assistance of l)ranches from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympath"tic. (_/") The tonsillar branches are two or three nerves which ascend under the hyoglossus to f )rm a plexus on the tonsil called the circulus tonsillaris, from which twigs proceed to the soft palate and isthmus faucium.592 THE NERVES. {(/) Tlie lingual branches su])i>ly tlic jinsterior third of the dunsuni of the tongue, and tlie side of the tongiK' over its posterior half, where they join tlie lingual nerve. The circunivallate papilhe receive the most minute nerve-su[iplv. The posterior branches also sup])ly the anterior surface of the epiglottis. Testut describes, in addition to the above, ciirotid braitchcfi to join the carotid plexus and inasciUar tirl(/s to the digastric, stylohyoid, and styloglossus muscles. The Tenth, Pneumogastric, or Vagus Nerve. The tenth or pneumogastric ("lung-stomach") nerve (Fig. G47) is formed by the junction of from ten to fifteen filaments, ^vllich arise from the oblongata in front of the restifornv body and lateral tract, in series with and just below the roots of the glossopharyngeal nerve. They form together a flattened band \vhich passes outward and a little forward beneath the flocculus to reach the jugular foramen, through which it leaves the cranium between the inferior petrosal and lateral sinuses, in the same sheath of dura as the spinal accessory, and external to and a little behind the glosso- ])haryngeal nerve. In the jugular foramen its root-gcoujlion is found, and half an inch below this is a second ganglion called the cjanglion of the tnmh. This last is formed as the nerve runs downward from the base of the skull between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery. In this situation, that is, immediately below the cranial base, the hyjioglossal nerve \\inds spirally round the vagus, lying first internally, then passing behind and round across its outer side. They are united to each other by fibrous tissue and some nerve- fibres which pass between the trunk ganglion and the hypoglossal nerve. Here also the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic and spinal accessory lie liehind the vagus, and the glossoj)haryngeal nerve in front of it. The pneumo- gastric now passes downward, behind and between the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein, and lower down maintains the same relation to that vein and the common carotid artery, being enclosed within the same fibrous sheath as these vessels. From the level of the clavicle downward the courses of the two nerves differ considerably, the differences, however, being readily explained by the mode of development of the great vessels, stomach, etc. The Right Pneumogastric Nerve enters the thorax by passing in front of the first portion of the subclavian artery, and between it and the right brachiocephalic vein. Bending backward to the side of the trachea, it gains the posterior sur- face of the root of the right lung, on which it breaks up into a coarse meshwork which forms, with fibres from the sympathetic, the posterior pvliaoiiari/ plexus. From tiiis plexus two distinct cords represent the continuation of the vagus to the right side of the «so])hagus. Around this tube a new plexus is formed, called the cesophaf/eal plexus, in which a free interchange of fibres occurs between the nerves of both sides. Again converging to form a single trunk the right vagus passes to the back of the oesophagus at its lower extremity, and, entering the abdomen through the (csojihageal opening in the diaphragm behind that tube, sjjreads out on the poste- rior surface ^)f the stomach. The Left Pneumogastric Nerve enters the thorax between the left eonunon carotid and left sul)clavian arteries, and behind the left brachiocephalic vein, and then passing a little backward crosses the root of the subclavian artery and the left side of the aortic arch under cover of the pleura. Reaching the back of the root of the left lung, it behaves on the left side as its fellow does on the right side; but its terminal trunk lies in front of the oesophagus, and its final branches supply the front of the stomach. The f/a,nf/lioii of the root is formed within the jugular foramen and is about one-sixth of an inch long. It has branches by which it communicates with the petrous ganglion of the glossopharyngeal, the spinal accessory nerve, the sujieriorTHE TENTH, PNEUMOGASTRIC, OB VAGUS NERVE.THE NERVES. 594 cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and two branches of distribution, namely, a recurrent filament to the dura and Arnold's nerve. The gmiglioii of the trunk is fusiform in shape, one-half to three-quarters of an inch long, and about one-sixth of an inch thick. The spinal accessory nerve is closely applied to it, communicates -with it by branches entering its substance, and contributes fibres to the phaiyngeal and superior laryngeal nerves, Avhich course over its outer surface. The hypoglossal nerve winds round it and com- municates with it. It also communicates with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and with the loop between the first and second cervical nerves; and the ])haryngeal and superior laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric are derived partly from this ganglion, partly from the spinal accessoiy. Branches.—(o) The communicating branches have just been sufficiently noticed with the two ganglia. (6) The recurrent branch is given oif from the root-ganglion. It is distributed to the dura round the jugular foramen. (e) The auricular branch, or nerve of Arnold (Fig. 648), arises from the root- gauglion. After receiving a filament from the petrous ganglion of the glosso- pharyngeal, it passes backward on the outer surface of the jugular sinus, and enters a small canal in the jugular fossa of the petrous bone. In this canal it arches back- ward close to the inner side of the aque- ductus Fallopii, communicating Avith the facial nerve, and curving downward, issues from the temporal bone through the auricu- lar fissure, between the external auditorv meatus and the mastoid process. It now divides into two parts, one of which joins the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve, while the other supplies the lower and back part of the external auditorv canal and the skin on the back of the pinna. {(I) The pharyngeal branch may be single, or represented by two or three, of which one is usually large. It comes off' from the trunk-ganglion, and is largely formed of fibres derived from the pars accessoria of the eleventh nerve. Running downward and forward sujjerficial to the internal carotid artery, it winds inward behind the external carotid artery to the back of the pharynx, where it joins the pharyngeal plexus. (e) The superior laryngeal nerve, springing also from the ganglion of the trunk, is, like tlic last, dci-ivcil largely from accessory fibres. It is much larger tlian the pliaryngeal In'anch, and ])asses downward and forward on the deep sur- face of the internal and external carotid arteries. After receiving communicating branches from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic and 2)haryngeal plexus, it divides into the internal and external laryngeal nerves. The internal laryngeal branch perforates the thyrohyoid memlirane under cover of the thyrohyoid muscle, accompanied by the laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid arter}'. It breaks up into diverging branches Mhich su]iply the mucf)us meml)rane on both surfaces of the epiglottis, the interior of the larynx, and the back of the cricoid cartilage, the descending l)r:uich forming a loop behind the ala of the thyroid cartilage with the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The external laryngeal branch runs downward under the sternothyroid mus- cle to end mainly in the cricothyroid muscle, supjilying on the way branches to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, pharyngeal plexus, laryngeal mucous membrane, and a twig which joins one of the cardiac branches of the sympathetic. (/) The inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve differs somewhat in its course on the two sides of the body (Fig. 049). TO EXTERNAL AUDITORY AURICULAR FISSURE TWIG TO FACIAL ARNOLDS FORAMEN TO POSTERIOR AURICULAR OF FACIAL FROM GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL AURICULAR BRANCH OF VAGUS ler.) Fig. 648.—Plan of Arnold's nerve. (W. Keil-THE TENTH, PNEUMOGASTBIC, OR VAGUS NERVE. 595 Fig. &49.—Relations of pneurnogastric and recurrent laryngeal nerves to the great vessels. (W. Keiller.) On the right side it arises at the root of the neck, in front of the subclavian arterv, winds beneath, and then upward and inward behind that vessel, and behind the common carotid and inferior thyi'oid arteries, to the recess between the j oesophagus and trachea. At the lower bor- 3 der of the cricoid cartilage it enters the ^ pharynx by passing beneath the inferior 3 constrictor. 3 z 3 Under cover of the ala of the tliyroid > S Jf] < cartilage it divides into branches to all the intrinsic laryngeal muscles except the crico- thyroid, and to the mucous membrane of the larynx below the rima glottidis, joining the internal laryngeal nerve. In its course upward it gives off thoracic cardiac branches, twigs to the inferior cer- vical ganglion of the sympathetic, oesopha- geal and tracheal branches, and muscular twigs to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The left recurrent laryngeal nerve springs from the vagus as it crosses the arch of the aorta, winds round the concavity of the arch just behind the ductus arteriosus, and runs upward Ijehind tlie origin of the left common carotid artery to reach the oesophagus. The rest of its course is similar to that of the right nerve. Ig) Cervical cardiac and thoracic cardiac branches are given off by each pneu- rnogastric nerve. There are usually two superior cervical cardiac l>ranches, one inferior cervical cardiac, and two or more thoracic cardiac bi'anches—the latter arising from the trunk and recurrent nerve on the right side, from the recurrent nerve only on the left side. These for the most part join cardiac branches of the sympathetic, and all, with one exception, go to the deep cardiac plexus, the left inferior cervical cardiac nerve being the only one which goes directly to the superficial cardiac plexus. The superior cervical cardiac nerves join the corresponding branches of the sympathetic beneath the carotid sheath. The left inferior cervical cardiac nerve descends on the left of the horizontal portion of the aortic arch, having the left phrenic nerve in front of it and the superior cervical cardiac branch of the sympathetic behind it. It joins the superficial cardiac plexus. The right inferior cervical cardiac nerve runs downward on the side of the brachiocephalic artery and trachea to the deep cardiac plexus. The right thoracic cardiac nerves, two or three in number, arise from the vagus trunk and from the recurrent laryngeal nerve. They run inward to the bifurcation of the trachea, where the deep cardiac plexus is formed. On the left side the thoracic cardiac branches spring from the recui'rent laryngeal nerve only. (h) The pulmonary branches form two plexuses, one in front of and one behind the root of the lung. The anterior pulmonary plexus is small, consisting of a few filaments which spring from the vagus above the root of the lung, and form a meshwork in front of the bronchus, uniting with sympathetic fibres from the pulmonary artery. The posterior pndiuonary plexus is large and important, involving the whole trunk of the nerve. Behind the root of the lung the vagus spreads out into an intricate network and is supplemented by fibres from the second, third, and fourth thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic ; from these plexuses branches accompany the bronchi in all their ramifications. A free interchange of fibres takes place between the plexuses of the two sides.596 THE NERVES. (/) (Esophageal Branches.—Above the pulnionarv plexus many small twigs are distributed to the resojjhagus both from the trunk of tlie vagus and from its recurrent laryngeal branch. Below that point the right and left vagi unite in forming a long-meshed plexus round the tube, from which its muscular and mucous coats get their nerve supply. (j) Abdominal Branches.—Thera*;;;.? distributes fibres all over the front of the stomach, largo branches accompanying the coronary artery on its small curvature, and so joining the hepatic plexus of the sympathetic. The r'ujht var/us supplies the posterior surface of the stomach, sending branches to the cceliac, splenic, and left renal plexuses of the sympathetic. The Fharipigca/ F/c.rua.—Two or three twigs from the superior cervical gang- lion of the sympathetic, the pharyngeal branches of the glossopharyngeal and vagus, and branches from the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves, unite in forming a plexus on the surface of the constrictors of the pharynx, from which the pharyngeal muscles and mucous membrane are supplied, as well as the levator palati and azygos uvulae. The motor nerves are derived from the pars accessoria. The Eleventh or Spinal Accessory Nerve. The eleventh nerve (Fig. 647) consists of two parts, an accessory/ portion to the pneumor/aHtric (pars accessoria ad vagum) and a spinal portion (pars spinalis). The Accessory Portion is formed by some four or five fasciculi, which spring from the medulla in series with the ^Jneumogastric roots. They unite to form a trunk which, with the spinal portion, to which it is united by some fibres or with which it may be entirely joined for a short distance, leaves the cranium iu the same sheath of dura with the pneumogastric. In the jugular foramen it sends fibres to the root-ganglion of the vagus, and then partly joins the trunk- ganglion of that nerve ; but niany of its fibres are continued over the surface of the trunk-ganglit)n into the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal nerves, and down the vagus trunk itself into the recui*rent laryngeal nerve. It will be seen that most of the motor fibres of the pneumogastric are derived from its accessory portion. The Spinal Portion of the spinal accessory arises by a long series of roots from the lateral column of the spinal cord extending as low as the sixth or seventh cervical nerve-roots. They issue from the lateral column between the attachment of the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior nerve-roots, approaching closer to the latter as they ascend. They join to form an ascending trunk, which enters the cranium, and unites wholly or partly with the accessory portion ; but, beneath the jugular foramen, leaves the pars accessoria and bends acutely backward, usually superficially to the internal jugular vein, to enter the deep surface of the sternomastoid muscle, which it sujiplies, and where it com- municates with a branch from the second cervical nerve. Emerging from the posterior border of the sternomastoid, it crosses the posterior triangle of the neck obliquely to end under the trapezius, a short distance above the clavicle. On the deep surface of the trapezius it is joined by fibres from the third and fourth cervical nerves, thus forming the subtrapezial plexus, from which that muscle is supplied. The Twelfth or Hypoglossal Nerve (Fig. 644). The twelfth or hypoglossal ("under the tongue ") nerve is exclusively motor in function, and its nucleus lies in series with those of the third, fourth, and sixth nerves. Its upper part lies close to the floor of tlie fourth ventricle near the median sulcus in the elevation known as the trigonum hypoglossi; loM'er down it lies ventro-lateral to the central canal. It extends the Avhole length of the oblongata, and its cells are large and multipolar like those of the anterior horn. The fibres spring in two vertical series of small bundles from the ventral aspectTHE TWELFTH OR HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. 597 of the nucleus, and running ventrally and a little outward through the inferior olive (with which, however, they have no connection) emerge in a linear series of from ten to twelve fasciculi along the groove between the olive and anterior pyramid. Connections of the Hypoglossal.—Its main connections are as follow : 1. Com- missural fibres join the nuclei of the two sides; 2. Motor fibres pass from the nucleus of the hypoglossal by the posterior longitudinal bundle to join the pars accessoria ad vagum and the genu of the facial nerve of the same side ; 3. Fibres pass to the opposite posterior longitudinal bundle. The roots of the twelfth nerve pass outward above the vertebral artery, and ojDposite the anterior condylar foramen pierce the dura through two distinct fora- mina in two bundles. In its passage through this foramen the two bundles unite to form one trunk, which at first lies very deeply on the inner side of the internal carotid artery and pueumogastric nerve. It descends in a spiral manner round the trunk-ganglion of the latter nerve, and between the internal jugular vein and internal carotid artery, being closely united to the ganglion by fibrous tissue, and receiving some communicating branches from it. It now appears at the lower border of the digastric muscle, and curves forward under the occipital artery (by the sternomastoid branch of which vessel it is kept in place) and across the exter- nal carotid artery. It reaches the upper border of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, where it lies on the middle constrictor of the pharynx and above the lingual artery. Passing under cover of the posterior belly of the digastric and the stylohyoid muscles, it lies on the hyoglossus muscle just above the central tendon of the digastric. Here it is accompanied by the lingual vein, and is separated from the lingual artery by the hyoglossus. Passing beneath the mylohyoid, it curves upward on the genioglossus, communicating in a loop witli the lingual nerve and terminating beneath the tip of the tongue. The branches of this nerve are divisible into two sets, namely, true hypoglossal branches which are distributed exclusively to the extrinsic and intrinsic muscles of the tongue, and branches which are really derived from the cervical plexus, and are only adherent to the hypoglossal nerve for some part of their course. True JIypoglossal Branches.—(a) Communicating branches unite the hypoglossal nerve with the trunk-ganglion of the vagus and superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and in a manner to be explained later, with the loop between the first and second cervical nerves. At the tip of the tongue it communicates with the lingual nerve, and a small twig, called the lingual branch of the vagus, joins it from the pharyngeal plexus. (6) The meningeal branch is given oif in the anterior condylar foramen, and enters the cranium to supply the dura round the foramen magnum and diploe of the occipital bone. (c) Muscular branches are distributed beneath the mylohyoid to the hyoglossus, styloglossus, and genioglossus, and also to the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. BRAJfCHES OF THE CeRVICAL PlEXUS ADHERENT TO OR ASSOCIATED \yiTH THE Hypoglossal Nerve (Fig. 656).—A considerable branch from the loop between the first and second cervical nerves joins the hypoglossal just beneath the base of the cranium. It is incorporated with the hy]joglossal nerve till it winds round the occipital artery, where part of the cervical branch leaves the hypoglossal under the name of the descendens hypoglossi. A smaller branch is given ofF lower down to supply the thyrohyoid muscle, and the remainder of this cervical nerve accompanies the hypoglossal under the mylohyoid to supply the geniohyoid muscle. The descendens hypoglossi springs from the trunk of the twelfth nerve where it crosses the occipital artery, and passes downward and a little forward on the sheath of the great vessels and beneath the sternomastoid for a variable distance, but usually to nearly on a level with the cricoid cartilage. Here it forms a loop with the ramus cervicalis descendens (communicans hypoglossi ), Avhich is formed by the union of two branches from the second and third cervical nerves respectively.nii: .\i:in /:s. This loop i-- I'lilli'd tho anf<a hi/poiflot^si. Vvom the iIomtiiiIiu* li\|>o>:lo>>i ;i twiji" is eivon lo tho antorior boUy ot'tlio omoliyoiil. l-"roni tho K'oji, liranohos aiv si'iN'oii to tho stoiMiohN oiil. -tofiunhvi'oiil. aiul po-toi ioi- hc\\\ ot' tho omohvoiil. tho hi>t iwic passiitg l>aok\\aril thfouL^h tho loop ol' doop oof\ioal I'a-oia, whioli Minis ilown tho oontnil tondoii ol' it- imi-olo. Tho norvos to tho stornohyoiil and storno- tliyroid omor tho postorioi- liordor- ot' tlio-o niusolos low down, and may oxteiul into tho thofax and ooiinminioato with tho phfonio norvo. THE SPINAL NERVES. In inirodiu'iiii:' tho -iihjoot ot' ilio oi'aiiial iior\ o- wo oiitorod pfotiN t'ulK iuio tho inodo ol' torntaiion I't' a -pinal nor\ o. takinu' it as tho t\ po on w hioh tho INTERNAL BRANCH ^J^EXTERMAL BRANCH )Jf?^TERIOR PRIMARY DIVISION ANTERIOR PRIMARY DUISION RAVUS COUUUMCANS Firt. (v>0,—Plan of tho constitution of a spinal nerve. (\V. Keiller.) a-anial iiofvos, also, aro inofo or loss i dorsal") N E R \ E ' ROOTS ' DORSAL ROOTS LIGAMCNTUM DENTICULATUM DURA PE N E D \ E NTKAL ROOTS S^s.NXL NERVE IN ITS PiAL SHEATM VENTRAL ROOTS LIC.AN ENTLIM PENTICULATUM \ ENTRAL ROOTS SPINAL NERVE IN ITS SHEATH Fi>;. A lv^^tion of tho suinal sliowins its rijiht lateral surfaoo. Tho oura is ojienod aua arRmgxxi u> show the nerve-roots. iTcsiul,) losoly plannod. A\ o fot'or tho sitidont aoain to paov r)(i;>. ami horo siipploniont what is thoiv s;iid by additi(Mial matter iiooo.*- sar\ to tho pivsent snhjoot. Kii;-. ti'ii' illnstfatos tho inodo ot'ofi^in ami oon-iittitii'ii ot' a -pinal norvo. It is soon to spring I'rom iho spinal oord by two roots, vonti-al and dorsiil. Tho v<i)tral nwt is motor in fnnotion, and -prino-s troin the vontro-latoral aspoot ot" tho ooi\l by tVom lour to six btnullos. Tlioy nnito to form two strands, wliioh ontor a shoath ot" dnra. in wliioli thoy aro at fiivt sopar-.itod from tlio doi-sitl iwt bv a fibrous septum. A\"itliiir the sheatii and as they travei'se the inter- vertebi-al I'oramen, the ventral root unites with the dorsjil to form a spinal nerve. The (ioraal roo^v. usually laroer than the ventral, are aai^orii in tnnetion. and spring trom the dorso-lateral as|HHn of the eord bv from six to eight faseieuli, whieh with their fellows aiv arranged in a single linear series all down the oord. They unite to form two bundles and within the dural sheath enter a ganglion, from Avhieh they emerge as one biuulle, and immediately join the ventral ivot to form a spinal nerve. A apinof qnnplion is an ovoid body, bilid at its proximal extremity wheiv tlieTHE HPIKAL yEEVE.S. AREAS 'iPOOTCLCKNiDS. 'ifi- 652.—Topo^jisT sjid disiiibtttioia of Tive spinal nerre-nxjts.600 THE NERVES. two bundles of dorsal nerve-roots enter it. It consists of bipolar nerve cells, one pole or process of each cell fcirming the periplieral portion of a sensory nerve fibril, the other pole or process forming its central continuation. With the excep- tions to be mentioned, they are placed in the intervertebral foramina immcdiatelv beyond the point where the roots enter the dural sheath provided for them l)v the theca vertebralis. The ganglia of the first and second cervical nerves lie on the laminae of the atlas and axis respectively ; those of the sacral and coccygeal nerves are found within the spinal canal, at a variable distance from their j'oints of emergence from it. The course of the nerve-7'oots within the spinal canal varies considerably at dif- ferent levels, the growth of the spinal cord not being equal to that of the verte- bral column ; for, while the cord occupies the whole length of the canal in the foetus, it only readies as low as the body of the first lumbar vertebra in tlie adult. Thus the first spinal nerve ascends slightly to reach the space between the atlas and occipital bone, through which it leaves the spinal canal ; tlie second and third are nearly liorizontal; the fourth runs oblicjucly downward and outward and the obliquity of the others within the vertebral canal steadily increases from here downward till the nerve-roots of the lumbar and sacral nerves run vertically downward for an increasing distance, thus forming the cauda equina. This will be easily appreciated by a glance at Figures 652 and 653. Topographical Anatomy of the Cord and Spinal Nerve-roots (Fig. 652).—It is important for surgical purposes to determine the relationship between the bony landmarks furnished by the spines of the vertebne, and the superficial origins of the spinal nerves. The main surgical data are graphically described in Fig. 652. The brackets in column A show the extreme limits between which in dif- ferent subjects examined by Reid each group of nerve-roots was found to arise. B shows each nerve cut off at the level of its intervertebral foramen, thus aftbrd- ing a ready estimate of the obliquity of its course in the neural canal; C gives the vertical distance in millimeters which in Testut's case of a subject of eighteen years of age separated the superficial origin of each of the nerves marked from its intervertebral foramen ; and the other columns will be readily intelligible to the senior student. It is be noted that the distribution marked in D, E, and F is only broadly true and does not pretend to anatomical minuteness; but it is for that reason all the more valuable for clinical purposes. Nomenclature (Fig. 653).—There are thirty-one pairs of the spinal nerves, namelv, eiglit cervical, twelve thoracic, five lumbar, five sacral, and one coccygeal. It wall be noted that these numbers corres]3ond with the number of vertebrse in each region except the cervical nerves, which are one in excess. The first cervical nerve leaves the vertebral canal above the dorsal arch of the atlas, between it and the occipital bone ; the eighth passes through the intervertebral foramen between the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebra?. Thus the first seven cervical nerves are named from the vertebrse below them ; the eighth cervical has no corresponding vertebra, and the thoracic, lumbar, and other nerves are named from the vertebrae above them. Mode of Distribution.—A spinal nerve, formed as above by the union of a motor and a sensory root, is a short trunk, which, immediately after its exit from the intervertebral foramen, gives off a small i-ecurrent branch, and then divides into a ventral and a dorsal primary division (Fig. 650). The dorsal primary dmsions, except those of the first and second cervical nerves, are smaller than the ventral. They pass backward and divide into two branches, external and internal. They supply the skin of the back of the head, neck, trunk, and gluteal region, and the muscles which act directly upon the spinal column. The ventral primary dirisions, with the two exce])tions above mentioned, are laro-er than the posterior. Each ventral division is joined by one or two branches from the neighboring sympathetic ganglion by which it receives non-medullated601 THE SPINAL NERVES. SPI NAL ACCESSORY CERVICAL PLEXUS BRACHIAL PLEXUS peniOR CERVICAL ON OF SYM- PATHETIC MIDDLE CERVI- CAL GANGLION NFERIOR CERVI- CAL GANGLION fibres for distribution to the vessels which it innervates, and contributes meduUated fibres to the sympathetic trunk. The ventral primary divisions of the thoracic nerves (except the first) form intercostal nerves, and are distributed each to its own area, but in all the other regions intricate plexuses are formed by neighboring nerves before their branches of dis- tribution are given otf. The recurrent branch is a small twig given otf from the nerve immediately after it leaves the interverteljral fora- men. It receives a communi- cation from the sympathetic and re-enters the spinal canal to supply the meninges and blood-vessels. Dorsal Primary Divisions of the Spinal Nerves.— General Statement.—The dorsal pritnary divisions of the spinal nerves (Fig. 654) are destined for the supply of the skin of the back of the seal]), trunk, and gluteal region, and the muscles of the posterior spinal group, except those connected with the upper limb, the serrati posteriores, and the levatores costarum. With the few excej)tions men- tioned below, each nerve passes backward between the trans- verse processes of the adjacent vertebrae and spinal muscles, dividing into an internal and external branch. From sixth thoracic nerve up- lumbar GANGLIA an the ward the internal branches are larger and are mainly cuta- neous, the external branches are smaller and purely mus- cular ; below that point the arrangement is reversed, the external branches being the larger, and mainly distributed to the skin, the internal branches small and chiefly dis- tributed to the erector spinse and deeper spinal muscles. Exceptions to this general type are as follow : The dorsal primary divis- ion of the first cervical (sub- occipital) nerve does not divide, is usually purely muscular, and rerpiires special description. The dorsal divisions of the fourth and fifth sacral nerves and the coccygeal nerve do not divide, but form loops witli each other, and are purely cutaneous. COCCYGEAL^ PLEXUS Fig. 653.—Anterior surface of the spinal cord, showing the spinal nerves and their connections with the sympathetic trunk on one side. (Testut.)602 THE NERVES. The dorsal divisions of the sixth, seventh, and eighth cei'vical nerves divide like the others into internal and external branches ; but both these branches are distributed to muscles only. The Dorsal Primary Division of the First Cervical or Suboccipital Nerve (Fig. 655).—The first cervical or suboccipital nerve leaves the cranio-vertebral canal by passing between the occipital bone and the dorsal arch of the atlas. The dorsal division, slightly larger than the ventral, passes backward under tlie ver- tebral artery, and enters the suboccipital triangle. Tliis space is bounded by the rectus capitis posterior major internally, the obliquus inferior infero-externally, and the obliquus superior supero-externally. Here the nerve divides into the Fig. C54.—Dorsal primary divisions of the spinal nerves. (Tcstut.) following four branches : {a) a branch to the obliquus inferior which furnishes an | anastomotic filament to the great occipital nerve ; (6) a bi'anch running upward j to the recti capitis posteriores major and minor; (c) a third branch enters the | obliquus superior; {(1) and a fourth Ijranch supplies the coniplexus on its deep j surface. j The Great Occipital Nerve (Figs. 654, 655).—The dor.sal primary division of I the second cervical verve is thi'ee or four times as large as the ventral division. Its ! exfernetl branch is small and is distributed to the inferior oblique, complexus, and I trachelomastoid; but the internal branch is large, and from its size and distribu- ' tion is called the Great Occipital Nerve. After communicating with the first and' I603 THE ANTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISIONS. third cervical nerves, and tlius forming wliat lias been called the dorsal cervical plexus, it winds upward over the obliquus inferior, supplies a twig to the com- plexus, and tlien pierces it and the trapezius to become cutaneous beneath the superior curved line of the occipital bone, about one inch from the middle line. Accom- panied by branches of the occipital artery, it supplies the skin over the upper RECTUS MAJOR Fig. 655.—Dorsal primary divisions of tlie upper three cervical nerves. (Testut.) part of the occipital bone and po.sterior parietal region, intei'lacing with the small occipital externally, and with the cutaneous branch of the third cervical nerve (third occipital nerve) internally. The Third Occipital Nerve.—The internal branch of the dorsal division of the third cervical nerve i.s dii'ected upward beneath the com])lexus to reach the skin of the occiput internally to the great occipital, with which it communicates. Its distribution has led to its being called the tkird occipital nerve. The Anterior Primary Divisions. CERVICAL NERVES. The upper four cervical nerves unite to form the Cervical Ple.rus, and supjoly the skin and muscles of the neck. The lower four unite with the first thoracic nerve to form the brachial plexus by which the upper limb is supplied. The Ceevical Plexus (Fig. 656). The first cervical nerve (ventral division), after leaving the vertebral canal in the groove on the dorsal arch of the atlas, winds round to the front on the inner side of the vertebral artery and bends downward over the transverse process to join the second nerve. The ventral division of the second nerve leaves the vertebral canal behind the articular process of the axis ; those of the rest of the cervical nerves pass outward in the intervertebral foramina, behind the vertebral artery and between the rectus capitis anterior major and the scalenus medius. On the surfiice of the levator scapulte and scalenus medius, and under cover of the sternomastoid these four nerves form three loops ; and from these loops, or from the nerves themselves, spring the branches of the plexus. These are divisible into a superficial cutaneous set, and a deep series, including muscular and communicating nerves.THE NERVES. 604 Superficial Branches (Fig. 645).—These are ascending, transverse, and descending. ASCENDING BEANCHES. 1. The Small Occipital Nerve is derived from the second cervical nerve. It passes backward under the sternoniastoid muscle to its dorsal border, then upward along that border, dividing at about the level of the mastoid process into an auricular hrancJi to the skin of the dorsal and upper part of the pinna, a mastoid branch to the skin over the mastoid region, and an occipital branch to the occipital area. It communicates with the great auricular and great occipital nerves. 2. The Great Auricular Nerve springs by two roots from the second and third cervical nerves. Reaching the dorsal border of the sternomastoid, it crosses it diagonally in running upward to the back of the auricle. It supplies a small mastoid branch to join the mastoid branches of the small occipital nerve, numer- ous large auricular branches to the back of the ]iinna in its lower two thirds, one or two of these piercing the cartilage to the front of the lobule and helix ; and aTHE CERVICAL PLEXUS. 605 small facial branch to the skin of the parotid, masseteric, and buccal regions. These branches join the facial nerve. TRANSVEESE BEANCH. The Superficial Cervical Nerve, rising with the last from the second and third cervical nerves, curves round the dorsal border of the sternomastoid muscle about its middle and spreads out into branches, which ramify between the platysma and deep fascia over the carotid triangle. Its ascending branch forms one or more loops with the inframandibular branch of the facial nerve. It supplies the skin of the front of the neck fi'om chin to sternum. DESCENDING BEANCHES. Branches from the third and fourth nerves form a large trunk, which pierces the deep fascia at the dorsal border of the sternomastoid and just below its mid- dle. This soon divides into three or four branches, which descend between the platysma and deep fascia to the skin of the sternal, clavicular, and acromial regions respectively, and are named according to that distribution. Muscular branches to the trapezius are usually associated with this trunk. Deep Branches.—The deep branches may be conveniently divided into muscular and communicating. Muscular Branches are distributed to the rectus capitis lateralis and recti ante- riores from the loop between the first and second nerves. A branch to the sterno- mastoid from the second nerve enters the under surface of that muscle near the mastoid process, and there communicates with the spinal accessory nerve. From the second and third nerves two branches join to form the ramus cerri- calls descendens, already described with the hypoglossal nerve. It supplies the depressors of the hyoid bone. From these nerves also twigs pass to the longus colli. The levator scapulae receives two or three branches from the third and fourth nerves, and the scalenus medius receives branches from the same trunks. Branches to the trapezius are derived from the descending cutaneous trunk (third and fourth nerves), and these unite under the trapezius with the termination of the spinal accessory nerve, thus forming the subtrapezial plexus. The phrenic nerve is the most important branch of the cervical plexus. Its most constant root is from the fourth nerve, but it may have other roots from the third or fifth, or both. AYhere the root from the fourth nerve is absent, it usually receives a twig from tlie nerve to the subclavius. In addition to these, it receives a communication from the cervical sympathetic. It takes a very constant and definite course downward and forward over the scalenus anterior, and beneath tlie omohyoid muscle and transversalis colli and suprascapular arteries, and, on the left side, the thoracic duct. Passing behind the subclavian vein it enters the thorax, the internal mammary ai'tery crossing behind it to reach the sternum. On the right side it now descends on the outer side of the right brachio-cephalic vein, superior cava, and jjericardium in front of the root of the lung and between these structures and the pleura, to the diaphragm, w^hich it pierces and supplies on its abdominal surface. On the left side it crosses the second part of the arch of the aorta and descends on the pericardium in front of the root of the lung to the diaphragm, being covered, of course, by pleura. Branches.—Twigs are supplied to the pleura and pericardium, and on the right side it communicates with the diaphragmatic plexus of the sympathetic, forming a small ganglion. Communicating Branches of the Cervical Plexus.—From the loop between the first and second nerves branches pass to the vagus and hypoglf)ssal, the branch to the hypoglossal being destined for hyoid muscles. The muscular branches from the second to the sternomastoid and from the third and fourth to the trapezius communicate with the spinal accessory ; and each nerve is connected with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic.606 THE NERVES. The Brachial Plexus (Fig. 657). The anterior primary divisions of the fifth, sixth, seventli, and eighth cervical nerves join with the first thoi-acic nerve to form the braeliial ])lexus. Com- munications are also received from the fourth cervical and second thoracic nerves. The cervical nerves emerge from the grooves on the transverse process of the Fig. 657.—Plan of brachial plexus. vertebrae, between the scalenus medius and anterior, and run downward in front of the former muscle. The first thoracic nerve emerges from between the first and second thoracic vertebrte, gives off a small branch to the first intercostal space, and ascends over the first rib to join the eighth cervical nerve. On the surface of the scalenus medius three primary trunks are formed, the fifth and sixth nerves uniting to form tlie upper trunk, the seventh alone forming the mid- dle tnmk, and tlie eighth cervical and fii'st thoracic nerves forming the lo7ver trunk. Tliese run together downward and outward in the subclavian triangle above the subclavian artery. In this situation each trunk sjjlits into an anterior and poHterior division. The anterior divisions of the two upper trunks unite to form the outer cord ; the inner cord is the continued anterior division of tlie lower trunk ; and the three posterior divisions together form the posterior cord. Tliese tliree cords lie to the outer side of the first part of the axillary artery, dis- tribute themselves round its second part in such positions as their names designate, and at the level of the third pai't of the vessel each cord has divided into separate nerves, which bear to the artery the same relations as the cords from which they spring. This is the usual arrangement, but there are numerous variations. The branches of the brachial plexus are classified into s^ipraekivieular and infrctdaviGidar. Branches Given off Above the Clavicle. 1. The nerve to the rhomboids (5. c.) is a long slender branch which springs from the fifth cervical nerve, close to the intervertebral foramen and in common with the first root of the posterior thoracic nerve. It enters the substance of the607 BRACHIAL PLEXUS. scalenus medius and emerges from its external border. Passing beneath the levator scapula;, it supplies some twigs to that muscle, and reaches the deep sur- face of the rhomboids, Avhere it is joined by the posterior scapular artery. It ends in the rhomboid muscles. 2. The nerve to the subclavius (5. c.) springs from the upper trunk. As a long slender filament it descends in front of the plexus and subclavian artery to supplv the muscle from -which it is named. It frequently contributes a filament to the ])hrenic nerve. 3. The suprascapular nerve (5. c.) (Fig. 658), also derived from the upper trunk, runs downward, outward, and backward over the scalenus medius and under the trapezius and omohyoid. It passes through the suprascapular notch, beneath the transverse ligament, and, after supplying a twig to the shoulder-joint, Fig. 658.—Suprascapular and circumflex nerves of right side, seen from behind. (Testut.) divides into branches to the supraspinatus and infraspinatus, the former turning outward into its muscle, and the latter passing round the gi'eat scapular notch, and terminating in the infrasjiinatus. 4. The posterior thoracic nerve (5. 6. 7 ? c.) (external respiratory nerve of Bell) is formed by the union of three roots, from the fifth, sixth, and seventh nerves respectively. The first two roots pierce the scalenus medius and supply twigs to the upper digitations of the serratus magnus. They are afterward joined by the seventh root, which passes in front of the scalenus medius. The nerve descends behind the brachial plexus and the first portion of the axillary artery, and runs along the chest wall on the serratus magnus, rather behind the lateral prominence of the ribs, sending a twig to each digitation of that muscle. 5. The scaleni and longus colli are su2:)plied by twigs from the lower three cervical nerves. Branches Given off below the Clavicle. Of these the external and infernal anterior thoracic and three subscapular nerves are distributed to parts about the axilla; the rest supply the arm and forearm.608 THE NERVES. 1. The External Anterior Thoracic Nerve (6. 7. c.) springs from the outer cord, pierces the costo-coracoid nienibraiie above the pectoralis minor, and supplies the pectoralis major. 2. The Internal Anterior Thoracic Nerve (8. c, 1. th.) is derived from tiie imier cord. It passes forward between the axillary artery and vein, and enters the deep surface of the pectoralis minor. After supplying this muscle, it pierces it to reach tlie pectoralis major, in which it ends. Thus the pectoralis major is sup- plied by two nerves. These two nerves are usually united by a loop which crosses in front of the axillary artery. 3. The Subscapular Nerves supply the muscles which form the posterior axillary wall, and are all branches of the posterior cord. The upper subscapular (5. 6. c), sometimes represented by two branches, lies high in the axilla. It is very short and plunges at once into the upper part of the subscapularis. The middle or long subscapular nerve (7. c.) accompanies the subscapular artery and supplies the latissimus. The lower subscapular nerve (5. 6. c.) sends twigs to the lower part of the subscapularis muscle and ends in the teres major. Terminal or Long Branches.—The outer cord divides into the musculo- cutaneous and outer head of the median; the inner cord into the small internal cutaneous, internal cutaneous, ulnar and inner head of the median, and the poste- rior cord into the circumflex and musculo-spiral. These branches are arranged around the third part of the axillary artery in the same manner as their jiarent cords, except that the small internal cutaneous nerve is separated from the arteiy by the axillary vein, and the internal cutaneous nerve and inner head of the median lie in front of the vessel. 4. The Musculo-cutaneous Nerve. The musculo-cutaneous nerve (5. 6. c.) (Figs. 659, 666, 667), arising from the outer cord of the plexus, lies first on the outer side of the axillary and after- ward of the brachial artery. It sends some fibres to the coraco-brachialis, and its main trunk perforates that muscle in a downward and outward direction near the lower liorder of the axilla. Passing obliquely across the arm between the biceps and brachialis anterior it gives branches to both these muscles, and reaches the surface at the outer border of the biceps a little above the bend of the elbow. Here it perforates the deep fascia, and divides into an anterior and a posterior division, which supply the skin on the anterior and posterior aspects of the radial side of the forearm. Of these the anterior division is large, and reaches as far down as the thenar eminence ; the posterior division is shorter and only reaches as low as the wrist. Both divisions communicate with the radial nerve. At the bend of the elbow the nerve is crossed by the median cephalic vein. 5. The Median Nerve. The median nerve (6. 7. 8. c, 1. th.) (Figs. 659, 660, 661, 663, 666, 667) arises by two heads, one from the inner and one from the outer cord. The inner head crosses in front of the third part of the axillary artery to join the outer head, and the resulting nerve runs down the arm on the outer side of the axillary and brachial arteries, and slightly under cover of the biceps. Near the middle of the humerus it crosses in front of the brachial artery to reach its inner side, which it keeps till the vessel bifurcates. It then passes between the two heads of the pronator teres, crossing the ulnar artery but separated from the vessel by the ulnar head of the muscle, and courses down the middle of the forearm^ on the flexor profundus digitorum under the flexor sublimis. At the wrist it is found beneath the deep fascia between the flexor sublimis and flexor carpi radialis and609 THE MEDIAN NERVE. just to the outer side or under cover of the palmaris longus. It no\v passes beneath the anterior annular ligament, where it is invested h\ the synovial mem- brane, and whence it emerges as a flattened band and divides into inner and outer terminal divisions. Braxches.—The median nerve gives no branches to the upper arm, btit supplies the elbow-joint, all the anterior group of forearm muscles, except the POSTERIOR BRANCH OF ' jANTERIOR BRANCH OF MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS MUSCU LC-CUTANEOUS Fig. 6o9.—Deep nerves of the front of the right arm. (Testut.) flexor carpi ulnaris and half of the flexor profundus, and the short muscles of the thumb that are on the radial side of the flexor longus pollieis. Its cutaneous branches supply the hollow of the palm, the thuml), index, middle and half of the ring fingers on their palmar aspect and nail-beds, and the two outer lumbrical muscles. 39610 THE NER VES. Muscular Branches.—The branch to the pronator teres (6. c.) is given off just above the bend of the elbow, those for the pahiiaris longiis (7. 8. c., 1. th.), flexor carpi radialis (6. c), and flexor sublimis digitorum (7. 8. c., 1. th.) a little lower down. The anterior interosseous nerve (7. 8. e., 1. th.) (Figs. 660, 663) is the muscular Fig. 660 —Deep nerves of the frunt ul tlie right forearm. (Testut.) branch of the median to the deep muscles of the forearm. Commencing opposite the bicipital tuberosity of the radius, it accompanies the anterior interosseous artery and lies on the interosseous membrane between the flexor ])ro- fundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis. It supplies branches to both these muscles, that to the flexor ]irofundus communicating with the corresponding branch of the ulnar nerve. The nerve accompanies the artery under the jjronator quadratus ; but, instead of following the vessel through the interosseous mem-611 THE MEDIAN NERVE. brane to the back, terminates by siipijlyiug the pronator quadratus and wrist joint. The muscular branch to the abductor pollicis, flexor ossis metacarpi poUicis, and outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis is a short, stout twig derived from the external terminal division. The Cutaneous Branches of the median are the palmar cutaneous and two terminal divisions. The palmar cutaneous branch is a small twig given off above the anterior annular ligament. It crosses in front of that ligament and supplies the palm and Fig. 661.—Superficial palmar nerves. (Testut) inner side of the thenar eminence, communicating with the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The external terminal division divides into an outer branch which crosses the flexor longus pollicis to the outer side of the thumb, and an inner branch which sends collaterals to the inner side of the thumb and outer side of the index finger and intervening skin.612 THE NERVES. The internal terminal division splits into two branches wliich proceed to the next two finger clefts, passing under the superficial palmar arch, but superficial to the tendons. At the level of the nietacarpo-phalangeal joints they appear between the divisions of the palmar fascia and split into collaterals to'the con- tiguous sides of the index and middle, and middle and rinu' fingers respectively. Each of these nerves supplies the palmar surface of the finger to which it belongs and gives a dorsal twig to the nail matrix. Twigs from the digital branches supply the two outer lumbrical muscles, and the innermost digital branch communicates with the ulnar nerve. 6. The Small Internal Cutaneous Nerve. The small internal cutaneous nerve (Figs. 659, 666), or nerve of Wrisherg (1. th.), arises from the inner cord of the plexus, and descends on the inner side of the axillary vein, and then under the fascia, which it pierces on the inner aspect of the arm about the middle. It bends backward and supplies the skin o\ev the olecranon and lower third of the arm. In the axilla it forms loops with the intercostohumeral, and sometimes also the lateral cutaneous branch of the third intercostal nerve. 7. The Internal Cutaneous Nerve. The internal cutaneous nerve (8 c, 1. th.) (Figs. 659, 666, 667) springs from the inner cord below the last. It descends in front of the axillary and brachial arteries, pierces the deep fascia with the basilic vein about two-thirds down the arm, and divides into an anterior and posterior branch. About the middle of the arm it gives a twig to the skin over the biceps. The anterior branch is the larger. It passes in front of or behind the median basilic vein, and supjilies the anterior ulnar area of skin as low as the wrist. The posterior branch descends in front of the internal condyle, and winds sharply backward to sup^jly the posterior ulnar region. 8. The Ulnar Nerve. The ulnar nerve (8. c., 1. th.) (Figs. 659-667), which is the largest branch of the inner cord, descends between the axillary arteiy and vein, and along the inner side of the brachial artery in the upper third of the arm. It then pierces the internal intermuscular septum with the inferior profunda artery, and descends beneath the deep fascia to the interval between the internal condyle and the olecranon process, where it passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris to run between that muscle and the flexor profundus digitorum. It joins the ulnar artery and lies on the inner side of that vessel in the lower two-thirds of the forearm, crossing the anterior annular ligament with it immediately exter- nal to the pisiform bone. In the ])alni it divides, like the artery, into a super- ficial and a deep division. Branches.—As of the median nerve the first branches of the ulnar are articular filaments to the elbow joint, which are given off as it passes between the heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris. In the forearm it supplies muscular branches (8. c, 1. th.) to the fiexor carpi ulnaris and inner half of the fie.vor profundus digitoruvi. The palmar cutaneous branch is given off near the middle of the forearm. It descends in front of the ulnar artery, supplies twigs to that vessel, and terminates in the skin of the palm. The dorsal branch (8. c.) arises about two inches above the wrist joint, passes backward beneath the flexor carpi ulnaris, and is distributed to the skin on the dorsum of the hand, little finger, and inner side of the ring finger, communicating with the radial.613 THE CIRCUMFLEX NERVE. The superficial terminal branch of the ulnar nerve (1. th., or 8. c. 1. th.) behaves similarly to the median nerve, with which it communicates ; but it supplies no muscles. It is distributed to the little and inner side of the ring finger. The deep branch (8. c.) accompanies the deep branch of the ulnar artery Fig. 662—Cutaneous nerves of the dorsum of the haud. (Testut.) between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti. It supplies all the short muscles of the little finger, all the interossei, the inner two liunbricals, and those thumb muscles, which are on the inner side of the flexor longus pollicis. 9. The Circumflex Nerve. The circumflex nerve (5. 6. c.) (Figs. 658, 664, 666, 667) is one of the terminal divisions of the posterior cord. It turns round the lower border of the sub- scapularis, and accompanies the posterior circumflex artery to the back of the shoulder, through the quadrilateral space, bounded by the subscapularis, teres major, triceps, and the surgical neck of the humerus. It gives an nrticular twig to the shoulder-joint, and divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch winds round the humerus with the ])Osterior circumflex artery, and sends many branches into the anterior part of the deltoid, some of which reach the skin. The posterior branch sends a nerve to the teres minor, which has an ovoid, gangliform swelling on it, and supplies the posterior part of the deltoid muscle and skin over the lower deltoid region.THE NERVES. 614 10. The Musculo-spiral Nerve. The musculo-spiral ucrve (6. 7. <S. c.) (Figs. 664, 659, 662, 666, 667) is the ter- minal and largest branch of the posterior cord. Placed at first behind the third part of the axillary artery and upper part of the brachial, it soon leaves the latter vessel, and, accompanied by the superior profunda artery, pierces the internal ANTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS Fig. 663.—Deep palmar nerves. (Testut.) intermuscular septum, winds obliquely round the humerus in the spiral groove between the triceps and the bone, and reaching tlie external intermuscular septum, pierces it to gain the interval between the brachialis anterior and brachio-radialis, where it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. Before its final division it gives oif an internal and an external cutaneous, and muscular branches to the triceps, anconeus, brachialis anterior (6. c), brachio-radialis (6. c), and extensor carpi radialis longus (6. 7. c). Of the muscular branches those to the last three muscles are given otf between the brachio-radialis and brachialis615 THE 3IUSCUL0-SPIRAL NERVE. anterior, branches to the inner and outer heads of the triceps and anconeus arise while the nerve is in the spiral groove, and important branches are contributed to the middle and inner heads of the triceps, while the parent nerve lies behind the brachial arterv. One of these last, called by Kraiise the ulnar collateral, accom- panies the ulnar nerve for some distance. The internal cutaneous branch (8. c.) arises within the axilla, and supplies a Fig. 664.—Musculo-spiral aud circumflex nerves of right side. (Testut.) strip of skin down the inner side of the arm, between the iutercosto-humeral and circumflex areas. The external cutaneous 'branches are two in number, the upper (6. c.) being the smaller. It pierces the deep fascia in the line of the intermu.scular septum, and supplies the skin over the lower and outer part of the biceps. The lon-er branch (6. 7. 8. c), becoming superficial a little below the last, descends behind the external condyle, and supplies the skin of the posterior radial region from elbow to wrist.616 THE NERVES. The posterior interosseous nerve (6. 7. c.) (Fig. 665), which is the terminal muscular hrandi of tlie nuiseiilo-spiral, is destined for the ])ostenor group of forearm niiiscles. It descends l)et\veen the braehialis anterior and extensor carpi radialis k>ngus, where it gives branches to the extensor carpi radialis brevis and supinator (6. 7. c), and tlien enters the substance of the latter muscle, in which it winds round the radius to gain the interval between the superficial and deep Fig. 665.—Posterior interosseous nerve. (Testut.) muscles on the back of the forearm. Here it distributes twigs to all the sur- rounding extensors (7. c.) and passes to the interosseous membi'ane in the lower third of the forearm, where it joins the anterior interosseous artery. It descends beneath the posterior annular ligament under the extensor communis, and expands into a gangliform enlargement, from which branches are supplied to the carpal joints. The radial nerve (6. c.) (Figs. 660, 661, 662, 666, 667) is the other terminal division of the rausculo-spiral, and is pui'ely cutaneous in its distribution. ItTHE MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE. 617 descends beneath the bruchio-radiulis, and joins the radial artery, on whose outer side it runs in the middle third of the forearm. It then turns sharply backward beneath the brachio-radialis tendon. Piercing the deep fascia two inches above the styloid process of the radius, it sends a twig to the outer side of the thumb Fig. 666—Cutaneous nerves of the upper limb, ventral aspect. (W. Keiller.) and divides into four branches, which spread fan-like over the back of the hand and fingers su])])lying the outer three and a half fingers up to, but not including, the terminal phalanges. It is here joined by the ulnar nerve.618 THE NEBVES. Observe that the nail matrices and surrounding skin are supplied by the pal- mar nerves, that the little finger and inner side of the'ring linger arc supplied on both aspects by the ulnar nerve, and that the rest of the fingers are sup[)lied by the median on the palmar, antl by the radial on the dorsal surface. Fig. fi07.—Cutaneous nerves of the upper limb, dorsal aspect. (W. Keillor.) On the dorsum of the hand the radial and ulnar nerves overlap considerably. For a general view of the cutaneous nerve-supply of the arm compare Figures 666 and 667.THE THORACIC NERVES. 619 THE THORACIC XERVES. The thoracic nerves differ from all tlie other spinal nerv'es in that they enter into the formation of no plexus; but each is distributed to a transverse segment of the trunk, corresponding to the vertebrfe from between whicli it emerges. Tlie first thoracic nerve sends a small branch to the interval between the first and second ribs, the main trunk, ascending in front of the first rib to join the brachial plexus. Its intercostal branch behaves like the others about to Ije descriljed, but with rare exceptions has no lateral cutaneoas branch. Tile upper six thoracic nerves run round the chest wall in the spaces between the verteliro-sternal ribs ; the remaining six pursue a transverse course through the aVxlominal wall wliere the ribs are deficient in front. A typical intercostal nerve (Fig. 668), after receiving two rami comraunicantes from the corresponding ganglion of the sympathetic, passes outward between the ANTERIOR CUTANEOUS Fig. 668—Plan of a typical intercostal nerve. (W. Keiller.j posterior intercostal aponeurosis and tlie pleura, beneath the intercostal artery. It enters the interval between the internal and external intercostal muscles, and runs in it till the external intercostal mu.scle becomes deficient in front. It then dips under the internal intercostal muscle, and, between it and the internal mam- mary artery and triangularis sterni, reaches the side of the sternum, where it pierces the chest wall to become cutaneous. The lovjer intercostals, from the seventh to the eleventh inclusive, enter the interval between the transver.-alis and internal oblique muscles, where the ribs are deficient in front. They run forward in the abdominal wall, enter the sheath of the rectus abdominis, and pierce that muscle near the middle line to supply the skin. Lateral Cutaneous Branch&f (Figs. 669, 670).—The first intercostal nerve has no lateral cutaneous branch.THE XEBVES. 620 The lateral ciifancovs branch of the second intercostal nerve is called the infer- cosfo-humeral. It crosses the floor of the axilla just under the deep fascia, joins the nerve of Wrisberg, and supplies a strip of skin on the inner and posterior aspect of the arm. Fig. 669.—Cutaneous distribution of thoracic nerves. (Testnt.) The lateral cutaneous branch of the third intercostal nerve has a small anterior branch which passes forward over the pectoralis major, and a large posterior branch, which, after communicating with the intercosto-humeral nerve, is dis- tributed to the skin of the axilla and dorsum of the scapula, a small branch reaching the arm.THE THORACIC NERVES. 621 The lateral cutaneous branches of the rest of the jntercostal nerves (except the twelfth) pierce the sujierficial thoracic or abdominal muffcles, in a vertical line a little behind the pectoral border of the axilla. Each divides into an anterior and a posterior branch for the supply of the skin over an intercostal s[)ace or corre- sponding area. The lateral cutaneous branches of the abdominal intercostals supply the external oblique muscle. Fig. 670.—Intercostal nerves, the superficial muscles having been removed. fTestut.) The anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax and abdomen are the terminations of the intercostals. They reach the surface close to the middle line and turn outward. Those of the abdomen are small and pierce the sheath of the rectus rather irregularly. The tenth thoracic nerve supplies the skin about the umbilicus. The twelfth thoracic nerve after communicating with the sympathetic and622 THE NEB VES. sending a branch to join the first lumbar nerve, passes outward beneath the exter- nal arcuate ligament of the diaphragm and enters the abdomen. It runs along the lower border of the last rib, and enters the space between the transversalis and internal oblique, and is afterward arranged as one of the lower intereostals. Its lateral cutaneous branch remains undivided and is distributed to the gluteal region a little behind the anterior superior iliac spine. The muscles supplied by the intercostal nerves are the levatores costarum, serrati posteriores, intereostals, triangularis sterni, transversalis abdominis, exter- nal and internal oblique, rectus, and pyramidalis. THE LUMBAR NERVES. The anterior divisions of the five lumbar nerves increase in size from above downward. They communicate with the sympathetic by rami communicantes which reach them by running along the sides of the lumbar artei'ies under the fibrous arches from which the psoas muscle takes origin. Of these five nerves the upper three, with a communication from the twelfth thoracic and a considerable part f)f the fourth lumbar nerve, from the lumbar ph xits, and the rest of the fourth lumbar nerve, with the whole of the fifth, join the sacral nerves in forming tiie sacral plexus. The Lumbar Plexus (Fig. 671). This plexus is found embedded in the substance of the psoas muscle, which must be removed piece by piece for its proper demonstration. FROM LAST THORACIC FIRST LUMBAR SECOND LU^ylBAR THIRD LUMBAR FOURTH LUMBAR TO ILIACUSt— . Fig. ri71.—rinn of lumbar plexus. (W. Keiller.) A glance at the diagram will show its general constitution. From the first hmbar nerve spring the iliohypogastrie and ilio'mgwinal nerves, from the first and second the genitoerural, from the second and ihird comes the external cutaneom, while large sections of the second, third, and fourth nerves foi-m the anterior i crurrd, and smaller more anterior sections of the same trunks unite to form ! the obturator nerve. The accessory obturator is a small, inc(jnstant branch derived from the third and fourth nerves,' and branches sujiply the j)Soas and quadratus j lumborum from nearly all the nerves in a somewhat irregular manner. _ ' Regarding their relations to the psoas muscle, the iliohypogastric, ilioinguinal, external cutaneous, and anterior crural nerves emerge from its outer border, the last nerve running down its outer side to pass under the inguinal (Poupart sjTHE ILIOHYPOGASTRIC NERVE. 623 ligament; the genitoeriiral nerve pierces the anterior surface of the muscle and descends to the jielvis in its sheath ; and the obturator and accessory obturator nerves and the lumbar contribution to the sacral plexus cross the pelvic brim along its inner side. 1. The Iliohypogastric Nerve. The iliohiipofjaatrie nerve (Figs. 672, 678) rises in common with the ilioinguinal from the first lumbar, and occasionally blends with it to form one nerve. Emerging from the outer border of the psoas it crosses the quadratus in the sub- peritoneal areolar tissue, and enters the space between the transversalis and inter- LUMBAR PORTION APONEUROSIS OF EX- DORSAL NERVE TERNAL OBLIQUE OF PENIS Fig. G72.—Deep and superficial dissection of the lumbar plexus. (Testut.) nal oblique. It runs parallel with the iliac crest and, about two and a half inches behind the anterior superior iliac spine, gives off its iliac branch. Continuing onward the nerve pierces the internal oblique near the iliac spine, and becomes cutaneous about an inch above the external abdominal ring. Its iliac branch pierces the abdominal muscles and, like the corresponding624 THE NERVES. branch of the last thoracic nerve, crosses the iliac crest to the gluteal region, supplying the skin between the crest and the great trochanter. 2. The Ilioinguinal Nerve. The iUomguinal nerve (Figs. 672, 673, 685, 686) arises in common with the last and accompanies it as far as the iliac spine but a little lower, uniting with it in a plexitbrm manner. It gains the inguinal canal and appears at the external abdominal ring in front of the spermatic cord, dividing into branches to the inner side of the thigh, and the scrotum or la])ium majus according to sex. These two nerves supply twigs to the muscles of the abdominal wall. 3. The Genitocrural Nerve. The genitocrural nerve (Figs. 672, 673, 677, 685, 686) arises from the first and second lumbar nerves. It appears on the anterior surface of the psoas muscle, on which it descends, dividing into two branches near the commencement of the external iliac artery or anywhere above this point. The internal or genital branch joins the external iliac artery, to which it con- tributes a twig, and then enters the inguinal canal. It is found on the back of the cord and is distributed to the cremaster muscle. In the female it is small and accomjianies the round ligament. The external or crural branch accompanies the psoas under the inguinal liga- ment and pierces the deep fascia just outside of the common femoral artery to sujiply the skin in front of the thigh. 4. The External Cutaneous Nerve. The external cutaneous nerve (Figs. 672, 673, 675, 678, 686, 686), derived from the second and third lumbar nerves, pierces the outer border of the psoas and descends across the iliacus and under the fascia iliaca to the notch beneath the anterior superior iliac spine. Here it enters the thigh under the inguinal ligament and divides into a srhall posterior branch to the skin in front of the great trochanter, and a large anterior branch which descends for some distance in a sheath of fascia lata, and is distributed to the skin on the outer side of the thigh as low as the knee, where it joins the plexus patellte. 5. The Anterior Crural Nerve. The anterior crural nerve (Figs. 672, 673, 675) is the largest trunk formed by the lund^ar plexus. It springs from the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves, the roots uniting in the substance of the psoas muscle to form one trunk, which descends along its outer side to accompany the muscle under the inguinal lieament to the thigh. In the thigh the nerve is separated from the common femoral artery by about half an inch, and divides immediately into a large num- ber of branches which may conveniently be classified as cutaneous and muscular, some of the latter furnishing articular twigs to the hip and knee-joints. («) The nerves to the iliacus are given off in the abdomen as the nerve crosses the muscle. (b) The nerve to the pectinens arises immediately below the inguinal ligament, and crosses outward to its muscle behind the common femoral vessels. (c) The nerves to the rectus and vastus externus run downward and outward beneath the former muscle, that to the vastus intermis runs parallel with the long saphenous nerve as far as Hunter's canal. Of these the nerve to the rectus sends a twig to the hip-joint and each of the others sends articular branches to the knee. (cl) The middle cutaneous nerve (Figs. 673, 674, 675, 685, 686) consists of two strong branches, one of which pierces and suj^plies the sartorius. TheyTHE ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. 625 perforate the deep fascia half way down tlie thigh, and supply the skin in front as far down as the knee-joint, joining the plexus patellar. {e) The internal cutaneous nerve (Figs. 675, 685, 686, 688, 690) crosses ob- liquely over the superficial femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle, and divides into an anterior and a posterior branch, which follow the anterior and posterior borders of the sartorius respectively. They pierce the fascia lata in the lower third of the thigh and supply the skin on its inner aspect as low as the knee. The ante- rior branch joins the plexus patelloe, and the posterior branch the subsartorial plexus. Fig. 673.—Superficial nerves of the antenur surlUee of the thigh. (Testut.) (/) The internal or long saphenous nerve (Figs. 674, 675, 680, 683, 684, 685, 686, 688, 690) accompanies the nerve to the vastus internus to the apex of Scarpa's triangle. Here it enters Hunter's canal, in which it descends in front of the fenioral artery. At the lower end of the canal it seeks the surface, by passing with the superticial branch of the anastomotica magna artery between the sartorius and gracilis, and piercing the deep fascia just below the knee. It then joins the long saphenous vein, distributes branches to the skin all down the 40THE NERVES. 626 MIDDLE CUTANEOUS inner side of the leg, and, descending in front of the internal malleolus, ends on the inner side of the ball of the great toe. Its patellar branch is given otf as it leaves Hunter's canal. It perforates the sartorius and supplies the skin on the inner side of the knee- joint, joining the plexus jiatellse. 6. The Obturator Nerve. The obturator nerve (Figs. 672, 673, 675, 677) arises from the second, third, and fourth lum- bar nerves. It descends on the inner side of the jisoas muscle to the jielvic brim, and then between the peritoneum and pelvic fascia to the obturator foramen, which it pierces where the membrane is deficient, the obturator artery lying below it. In the obturator foramen it divides into an ante- rior and a ])osterior branch. (o) The anterior branch passes in front of the obturator externus and adductor brevis, and behind the pectineus and adductor longus. It supplies the hip-joint, the ad- ductor longus and brevis, the gracilis, and occasionally the pectineus, and terminates by be- coming cutaneous to the inner side of the thigh, and joining the subsartorial plexus. {h) The posterior branch pierces the fibres of the obturator externus, and descends on the adductor magnus and behind the adductor brevis. It supplies the hip-joint, oi)turator externus, and adductor magnus, and terminates in a long slender fibre, which enters the popliteal space on the inner side of or behind the femoral artery, and, after giving a twig to accomj^any the superior inter- nal articular artery, ends by piercing the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. CUTANEOUS ^ BRANCHES /■ OF peroneal) LONG SAPHE- NOUS VEIN ANTERIOR TIBIAL COLLATERAL BRANCHES TO TOES tut.) Fig. 674.—Superficial nerves of the front of the leg. (Tes- 7. The Accessory Obturator Nerve. The accessory obturator nerve is a small inconstant branch, derived from the obturator or from the same lumbar nerves. It crosses the ascending ramus of the OS pubis under the pectineus, and supplies that muscle and the hip-joint, forming a loop Avith the anterior branch of the obturator. The Plexus Patellae.—The external, middle, and internal cutaneous nerves and627 SACRAL AND COCCYGEAL NERVES. patellar branch of the long saphenous interlace with each other as they supply the skin round the patella. The subsartorial plexus is formed under the sartorius, in the lower third of the thigh by interlacing branches of the internal cutaneous, obturator, and long saphenous nerves. Fig. 675.—Deep nerves oi the Iroiit of the thigh. (Testut.) THE SACRAL AND COCCYGEAL NERVES. The anterior divisions of the upper four sacral nerves enter the pelvic cavity through the anterior sacral foramina, the fifth sacral nerve passes forward between the sacrum and cornn of the coccyx, and the coccygeal nerve leaves the spinal canal through its terminal opening. The upper three sacral nerves join with part of the fourth and the whole of the fifth lumbar nerves, and part of the fourth628 THE NER VES. sacral nerve to form the sacral jilcxus ; tlic rest of the fourth sacral and remain- ing nerves form the coccygeal plexus. The Sacral Plexus (Fig. 676). A variable portion of the fourth lumbar nerve joins the fifth liunbar to f irm the lumbo-sacral cord. This trunk crosses the brim of the pelvis, j)ierces the pelvic fascia, and under cover of this foscia joins the sacral nerves on the ventral FOURTH LUMBAR GREAT SCIATIC Fig. 676.—Plan of sacral plexus. surface of the pyrifoi-mis muscle. AVith the first and second and greater part of the third sacral nerves the lumbo-sacral cord forms a great compound nervous trunk called the great sciatic nerve. A small band from the second sacral unites with the remainder of the third sacral and \\\{\\ the fourth sacral nerves to firm the internal pudic nerve. Thus the two main or terminal trunks are formed ; but, in addition to these, numerous collateral branches are given off: the superior gluteal, the inferior gluteal, the small sciatic, the perforating cutaneous, and nerves to the pyriformis, obturator intcrnus, gemelli and quadratus feraoris. The In-anches of this plexus are divisible into a dorsal and a ventral set. In the diagram the dorsal set are shaded. They spring from the back of tlie plexus and supply the extensor aspect of the linil) ; the ventral set spring from the anterior surface of the plexus and supply the flexor muscles. COLLATERAL BRANCHES. Tlu' twigs to tJte pyi-iforhiis are derived from the first and second sacral nerves. The nerve to the quadratus fcmoris lies on the ventral surface of the plexus, its fibres springing from the lumbo-sacral cord and first sacral nerve. On the hip it is seen descending under the obturator intcrnus and gemelli to reach the ventral surfiice of the quadratus, distributing on its way branches to the inferior gemellus and hip-joint.COLLATERAL BRANCHES OF SACRAL PLEXUS. 629 The nerve to the obturator internus, from the fifth lumbar and upper two sacral nerves, appears on the hip beneath tlie piriformis, crosses the spine of the ischium outside tlie internal pudic vessels, and passes through the small sacrosciatic fora- men to the obturator internus, su])plying the superior gemellus as it passes. The superior gluteal nerve (Figs. 677, 679), springing from the back of the lumbo-sacral cord and first sacral nerve, leaves the pelvis through the great sacro- Fio. 677.—Sacral plexus of the right side. (Testut.) sciatic foramen with the gluteal vessels, and under the gluteus medius divides into a small superior branch to that muscle, and a larger inferior branch, which accompanies the inferior l^ranch of the gluteal artery and is distributed to the gluteus medius and minimus, and tensor vaginje femoris. The inferior gluteal nerve (Fig. 679) arises from the lumbo-sacral cord and first and second sacral nerves, and is frequently closely associated with the small sciatic nerve. It emerges from the great sacrosciatic foramen beneath the pyri- formis, and enters the deep surface of tlie gluteus maximus, which it supplies. Tlie small sciatic nerve (ischiatic nerve) (Figs. 677, 678, 679, 687, 688) is a purely cutaneous nerve, sujiplying the skin of the buttock, perineum, and back of the thigh and popliteal region. It springs from the back of the upper three sacral nerves, and appears on the buttock beneath the pyriformis, and on the sur- face of the great sciatic nerve. At the lower border of the gluteus maximus it- lies under the deep fascia on the middle line of the back of the thigh. Distrib- uting cutaneous filaments as it descends, its terminal fibres pierce the deep fascia630 THE XF.U VKS. at rlie beud of the knee, and end in the skin of the calf, ioinine the external saphenous nerve. Its c-viaiuou^ hro.ncl\c$ io the gluteal region are two or three in number, and bend upwai-d over the lower border of that muscle to the skin of the lower and outer pai-t of the l>ufToek. Its inferior pudendal branch turns inwaixl beneath the tuber ischii and pierces the fascia lata on the inner side of the thigh about one inch in front of the tuber- osity. It supplies the skin in this region, and jxisses forwani and inward to the scrotum or labium majus, joininsr the extei'nal superficial perineal branch of the internal pudie nerve. The perforatiag cutaneous nerve is a small twig from the second and third631 THE GREAT SCIATIC NERVE. sacral nerves, which pierces the great sacrosciatic ligament to reach the skin over the lower and inner part of the glnteus maximns. TERMINAL BRANCHES. The Pudic Nerve (Figs. 677, 679). The greater jjart of the third sacral nerve is angraented by contributions' from the second and fourth to form the pudic trunk, which emerges from the pelvis through the great sacrosciatic foramen, hooks round the small sacrosciatic liga- ment on the inner side of the pudic vessels, and enters the outer wall of the ischiorectal fossa, where it accomjjanies the vessels just mentioned. At the back of the fossa it gives oif its inferior hemorrhoidal branch, and about one inch farther forward divides into the perineal nerve and the dorsal nerve of the penis. The Inferior Hemorrhoidal Nerve pierces the obturator fascia well back under cover of the gluteus maximus, and crosses inward through the flit of the ischio- rectal fossa, distributing its branches in fan-like manner to the sphincter ani externus and the skin round the anus. The perineal nerve consists of a superficial and a deep division. The sivper- ficial division forms two nerves. The posterior or external superficial perineal nerve crosses the transverse perinei superficially, and runs forward in the scrotum or labium majus outside the superficial perineal vessels. It interlaces with the long pudendal and internal superficial perineal nerve. The anterior or internal superficial perineal nerve enters the ischiorectal fossa in front of the preceding, pierces the transversus perinei muscle, and passes forward on the inner side of the superficial perineal vessels to the scrotum or labium majus, interlacing with the nerve pre- ceding. The deep division crosses inward parallel with the transversus perinei, and distributes branches to the external sphincter, levator ani, transversus perinei, ischio-cavernosus, and bulbo-cavernosus, and to the corpus spongiosum and ure- thral mucous membrane. The dorsal nerve of the penis passes with the internal pudic vessels between the layers of the triangular ligament. Here it sends twigs to the constrictor urethrte and corpus cavernosum, and then pierces the inferior layer of the tri- angular ligament, appearing on the dorsum of the penis on the outer side of the dorsal vessels. It is distributed to the skin covering the corjius cavernosum and glans, communicating with sympathetic fibres. In the female a similar but much smaller nerve is distributed to the clitoris. The Great Sciatic Nerve. The great sciatic nerve (Figs. 679, 681) is a compound trunk consisting of two great divisions—the peroneal (external popliteal) and the popliteal (internal popliteal). With the latter are associated the nerves which supply the hamstrings and adductor magnus. These are usually united to form one great trunk, which divides into popliteal and peroneal* a little below the middle of the thigh ; but they may be actually separate, or easily separated by dissection, as far as their constituent elements in the sacral plexus. Thus analyzed, the popliteal segment is seen to consist of ventral portions of the lumbosacral cord and upper three sacral nerves, and the peroneal nerve is ti'aceable to the dorsal surface of the lumbosacral cord and upper two sacral nerves. The great sciatic nerve appears on the buttock at the lower border of the pyriformis, crosses the gemelli, obturator internus, and quadratus femoris under cover of the gluteus maximus. At the lower boi'der of the last muscle it is found midway between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter in an angle formed by the gluteus maximus and biceps. It now descends on the adductor632 THE NERVES. niagnus, and is crossed obliquely hy the long head of the biceps, dividing at a variable distance down the thigh into the (internal) popliteal and peroneal nerves. Fig. 679.—Deep nerves of buttock and back of thigh. (Testut.) It gives off four branches, viz., one to the semitondinosus, one to the semimem- branosus and adductor niagnus, and one to each head of the biceps. The Internal Popliteal Nerve (Figs. 679, 680, 681). The internal popliteal (nervus tibiali.'^) descends vertically down the middle of the popliteal space, till, reaching the lower border of the popliteus muscle, it is named the 'posterior tibial nerve. At first some distance on the outer side ofPOSTJEBIOJR TIBIAL NERVE. 633 MUSCULftn TO GASTROCNEMIUS INTERNAL. SAPHENOUS RAMUS COMMUNI-- CANS TIBIALIS INTERNAL SAPHENOUS NTERNAL POPLITEAL EXTERNAL POPLITEAL MUSCULAR TO GAS- TROCNEMIUS RAMUS COMMUNI- CANS FIBULARIS RAMUS COMMUNl- CANS FIBULARIS RAMUS COMMUNI- CANS FIBULARIS the popliteal vessels, where these vessels reach the middle liiie, it is closely adherent to the posterior surface of the vein, tending toward the inner side below. Branches.—The articular branches, usually three in number, accompany the superior and inferior internal articular, and azygos articu- lar arteries to the knee-joint. The upper is frequently absent. The muscular branches are distributed to the gastroc- nemius (1. 2. s.), plantaris (4. 6. 1, 1. s.), soleus (5. 1, 1. 2. s.), and popliteus (4. 5. 1, 1. s.). Of these the nerve to the popliteus is given off under the gastrocnemius and descends on the outer side of the popliteal vessels to reach the lower border of its mus- cle. It winds beneath it and supplies the muscle on its anterior surface, giving also a branch to the tibia accom- panying its medullary artery, one to the interosseous mem- brane and inferior tibiofibular joint, and another to the superior tibiofibular articula- tion. The cutaneous branch (ramus communicans tibialis vel poplitei) descends along the middle of the leg in the groove between the heads of the gastrocnemius, and pierces the deep fascia about half way down, to be joined by a similar branch from the pe- roneal nerve (ramus com- municans peronei). Together they form the short or exter- nal saphenous nerve, which now accompanies the short saphenous vein beneath the external malleolus to the outer side of the foot, where it supplies the outer side of the foot and little toe, communicating with the musculocutaneous. It distributes branches to the skin on the back of the leg, external calcanean branches to the outer side of the heel, and articular branches to the ankle and astragalo-calcanean joints. INTERNAL SAPHENOUS PLANTAR CUTANEOUS BRANCH OF POS- TERIOR TIBIAL Fig. 680.—Superficial nerves of the back of the leg. (Testut.) Posterior Tibial Nerve (Fig. 681). At the lower border of the popliteus muscle the popliteal nerve is called the posterior tibial. It passes down the middle of the leg on the deep muscles, and beneath the deep transverse sheet of fascia. The posterior tibial artery is at first on the outer side of the nerve, but, after giving oflP the peroneal artery, it crosses abruptly a little inward beneath the nerve, and then descends on its inner side.THE NERVES. 6.34 Between the internal malleolus and the inner tuberosity of the os calcis the posterior tibial divides into the internal and external plantar nerves. Branches.—{a) Muscular branches (5.1., 1. 2. s.) supply the tibialis posterior, flexor longus digitoruni, and tlcxor longus hallucis ; besides M hich there is a sup- plementary braneh to the soleus. (6) The fibular branch accompanies the peroneal artery, su])plying these vessels, the fibular periosteum and the medulla of that bone. GREAT SCIATIC NERVE Fig. 681.—Deep nerves of the back of the leg. (Testut.) (f) The calcaneo-plantar nerve (1. 2. s.), arising from the posterior tibial in the lower fourth of the leg, becomes cutaneous by ])iercing the internal annular liga- ment. It then divides into iidernal calcaneal branches to the skin of the heel, and p/antar cutaneous bi'anches to the inner side of the sole. (d) Articular filaments supply the ankle-joint. The Internal Plantar Nerve' (Figs. 682," 684, 686, 689, 690) (4. -5. 1., 1. s.) is slightly the larger of the two terminal divisions of the posterior tibial. It dis- tributes cutaneous nerves to the inner three and a half toes, and supjjlies thePOSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE. 635 abductor hallucis, flexor brevis digitorum, flexor brevis hallucis, and inner lunibrical muscle. It passes forward under the origin of the abductor hallucis, then in the groove between that muscle and the flexor brevis digitorum, accom- panying the internal plantar artery. Under cover of the plantar fascia it divides into fou.r dicjital nerves. Of these the innermost passes undivided to the inner side of the great toe, giving a branch on its way to the flexor brevis hallucis, the remaining tliree nerves, emerging between the processes of plantar fascia, divide each into two collateral branches for the adjacent sides of the corresponding toes, the digital nerve to the first cleft supplying the inner lumbrical muscle, and the most external branch communicating with the external plantar nerve. The muscular branches to the abductor hallucis and flexor brevis digitorum are given Fig. 682.—Plantar nerves. (Testut.) off near the commencement of the nerve, articular fibres supply some of the joints of the foot, and plantar cutaneous twigs are distributed to the sole. As in the case of the corresponding nerve of the hand, the plantar digital nerves supply the skin on the dorsum of the ungual ])halanx and the l)ed of the nail. The External Plantar Nerve (Figs. 682, 684, 689, 690) accompanies the exter- nal plantar artery between the flexor brevis digitorum and flexor accessorius, till, gaining the hollow between the former muscle and the abductor minimi digiti, it divides into a superficial and a deep branch. Before dividing, it gives branches to the flexor accessorius and abductor minimi digiti. The superficial terminal branch sends one digital branch to the outer side of the little toe, and a second, which, passing beneath the plantar fascia to the cleft between the fourth and fifth toes, divides into collateral branches to their adjacent surfaces, first communicating with the internal plantar nerve. The outer digitalTHE 2^EB VES. 636 TELLAR BRANCH OF INTERNAL SAPHE- NOUS NERVE EXTERNAL POP- LITEAL NERVE MUSCULO-CUTA-, NEOUS NERVE .INTERNAL SAPHE NOUS NERVE ANTERIOR "tibial NERVE brancli supplies a twig to the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and occasionally sup- plies the interosseous muscles of the fourth space. The deep branch of the external plantar nerve continues to accomjiany the external plantar artery beneath the long flexor tendons. It supplies branches to all the interosseous muscles (except occasionally those of the fourth space), the outer three lumbricals, and the adductor obliquus and adductor transversus hal- lucis ; as well as articular filaments to the tarso-metatarsal and metatarso-phal- angeal joints. External Popliteal or Pero- neal Nerve (4. 5.1; 1. 2. s.). This nerve (Figs. 674, 679, 680, 681, 683, 686, 688) de- scends (il)liquely along the outer boundai'v of the pop- liteal space following closely the inner border of the biceps muscle and its tendon as far as the fibula, thus crossing the outer head of the gastrocne- mius. Beneath the head of the fibula it winds round the outer side of that bone, piercing the peroneus longns, and in its substance dividing into the musculocutaneous and anterior tibial nerves. Shortly after its formation it gives off, fre- quently by one common trunk, two external articular branches, which accompany the superior and inferior external articular arteries to the knee-joint. A recurrent articular branch is given off just before the nerve bifurcates. It passes under the peroneus longus and extensor longus digitorum to join the anterior tibial recurrent artery. Many of its fibres end in the upper end of the tibialis an- terior, but some pass to the superior tibio-fibular joint, the periosteum over the outer tu- berosity of the tibia and the knee joint. Of the two cutaneous branches (5. 1., 1. 2. s.) the ramus communicans jjeronei or fibular communicating branch joins the tibial, communicating below the middle of the leg to form the short saphenous nerve. Sometimes they do not join, and then this nerve usually ends on the heel or outer side of the foot. The lateral cutaneous branch of the pero- neal nerve supplies the skin along the outer side of the upper two thirds of the leg. CUTANEOUS BRANCH | OF MUSCULO- CUTANEOUS J -EXTERNAL BRANCH OF ANTERIOR TIBIAL -INTERNAL BRANCH OF ANTERIOR TIBIAL "EXTENSOR BREVIS DIGITORUM EXTERNAL _ SAPHENOUS BRANCHES OF MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS Fig. 683.—Deep nerves of the front of the leg. (Testut,637 EXTERNAL POPLITEAL OR PERONEAL NERVE. Fig. 684.—Nerves of the dorsum of the foot. (Testut.) into an internal and an external The Musculocutaneous Nerve (4. 5. 1., 1. s.) (Figs. 674, 683, 684, 685, 686) descends obliquely beneath the peronei muscles, and between them and the exten- sor longus digitorum, snj)plies muscii/ar branches to the peroneus longus and brevis, and pierces the deep fascia near the middle line of the leg near its lower fourth. It then divides into two branches, internal and external, which descend in the superficial fascia to the dorsum of the fo(jt, supplying fdaments to the skin on the front of the leg, as they proceed downward. The internal branch sends a branch to the inner side of the great toe, com- municating with the long saphenous nerve, a second branch to join the anterior tibial nerve as it divides into collaterals to the contiguous side of the first and second toes, and a third branch to supply collaterals to the second and third toes. The external branch supplies digital nerves to the contiguous sides of the third and fourth, and fourth and fifth toes, and com- municates with the short saphe- nous nerve. It will thus be seen that the short saphenous nerve supplies the outer side of the little toe, the anterior tibial supplies the contiguous surfaces of the first and second toes, and the mus- culocutaneous nerve supplies all the rest of the dorsum (.)f the foot; the long saphenous nerve stopping short at the ball of the great toe. The Anterior Tibial Nerve (4. 5. 1., 1. s.) (Figs. 674, 683, 684, 685, 686) descends obliquely through the peroneus longus and extensor longus digitorum to lie on the interosseous membrane and anterior tibial artery. It reaches the side of that vessel about the junction of the upper and second fourths, descends a short distance on its outer side, and then in front of it, to be again placed on the outer side (occasionally inner side) of the vessel beneath the anterior an- nular ligament. Here it divides branch. Branches.—{a) MuseuJw branches supply the tibialis anterior, extensor longus digitorum, extensor proi)rius hallucis, and peroneus tertius. {/j) An articular filament supplies the ankle-joint. (c) The external branch crosses outward under the extensor brevis digitorum, becomes enlarged like the posterior interosseous in the hand, and breaks up into branches, which supply the extensor brevis digitorum and the tarsal joints. _(f/) The internal branch aj)pears to be the direct continuation of the nerve, as it accompanies the dorsalis ]x>dis artery, lying usually on its outer, sometimes on its inner side. Opposite the tarso-metatarsal joint it communicates with the musculo-cutaneous, and divides into branches to the outer side of the great, and inner side of the second, toe. INTERNAL BRANCH OF MUSCULO- ANTERIOR 'NTERNAL SAPHE- PLANTAR NERVE638 THE NERVES. Fourth and Fifth Sacral and the Coccygeal Nerves. The Fourth Sacral Nerve.^—A.s already deseribfd, a small iturtioii of the fourth sacral nerve ascends to join the sacral plexus. The remainder divides into vis- ceral and muscular branches and a comnuniicating filament to the fifth sacral. The vwceral branches descend on the pelvic surface of the coccygeus and levator Fig. 68.5.—Cutaneous nerves of the front Fig. 686.—Areas of distribution of cutaneous nerves of of the lower limb. (W. Keiller.) the front of the lower limb. (W. Keiller, after Testut.) ani to the bladder, rectum, and, in the female, the uterus and vagina. They com- municate freely with the pelvic sympathetic and visceral branches of the third sacral nerve. The muscular branches supply the levator ani and eoccygeus on their pelvic surface, and a twig to the external sphincter (perineal branch) pierces the coccy-639 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. geiis or passes between it and the levator ani to the postero-internal angle of the ischio-rectal fossa, thus reaching its muscle and supplying it and the skin around the anus. < The Fifth Sacral Nerve, emerging from the spinal canal between the sacrum and cornu of the coccyx, enters the pelvis, and on the pelvic surface of the coccygeus muscles gives an ascending filament to join the fourth sacral, a descend- ing filament to unite Avith the coccygeal nerve. It then descends on the coccygeus toward the tip of the coccyx, supplies twigs to the coccygeus muscle, and finally pierces that muscle to end in the skin over the coccyx. The Coccygeal Nerve is an exceedingly small filament, which emerges from the lower end of the spinal canal, and pierces the sacrosciatic ligaments and coccygeus muscle to join the fifth sacral nerve. The connection between the foui'th and fifth sacral and coccygeal nerves is called the coccygecd plexus. THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. The sympathetic system consists of two chains of ganglia, lying one on each side of the spinal column, which are developed as outgrowths from the spinal cord, and remain permanently connected with the spinal nerves. Its function is to innervate the viscera, glands, heart and blood-vessels, and the unstriped mus- cles of the body generally. This system presides in fact over the vital or vegeta- tive, as contrasted with the voluntary or exclusively animal functions of the body, remaining, however, under control of the central nervous system. If we take the arrangement in the thorax as typical, the ganglia should cor- respond in number with the spinal nerves ; but in the neck there are only three ganglia, several being fused into one, and in the abdomen also the number is short; so that, while there are 31 spinal nerves on each side, there are only 20 to 23 ganglia. Each ganglion is reddish-gray in color, somewhat fusiform in shajae and softish in consistence, but enclosed in a strong fibrous sheath. It is connected with that above and below it by an ascending and a descending trunk, and with at least one spinal nerve by one or two rami communiccmtes. Each ganglion dis- tributes rami efferentes, which either directly or through the intervention of a secondary plexus supply blood-vessels or viscera, the efferent branches to the limbs and body-wall, however, joining the spinal nerves by the gray rami communicantes, and thus reaching their destination. The gangliated cords are connected superiorly Avilh the upper cranial nerves by branches which enter the cranium with the internal carotid artery, and infe- riorly they converge over the front of the sacrum to meet in a single ganglion in front of the coccyx. In addition to these two chains the following also belong to the sympathetic system : 1. Sporadic ganglia, namely the ciliary, Meckel's, otic, and submandibular, connected with cranial nerves and described with them. 2. The great prevertebral plexuses, consisting of aggregati(nis of nerves and ganglia, which are connected with the gangliated cords and cerebro-spinal nerves on both sides of the body, and meet in front of the vertebral axis. These are, the cardiac plexus, lying above the heart and supplying it; the solar plexus, situated in the abdomen behind the stomach, and supplying most of the abdominal viscera and their vessels ; and the hypogastric plexus, which is placed betAveen the two common iliac arteries, and supplies the pelvic viscera. 3. Secondary Plexuses.—Many of the viscera j^ossess minute secondary gangliated plexuses of their own, the ganglia being often microscopic in size ; e. g., the heart, suprarenal bodies, uterus, and intestines. The ganglia of the sympathetic cords (vertebral ganglia) (Fig. 691) consist of nerve-cells, and medullated and non-meduUated nerve-fibres. The medullated640 THE NEBVES. nerve-fibres are derived probably wholly from the motor roots of spinal or cranial nerves, and form the white rami communicantes. They terminate in arboriza- tions round the cells of the vertebral ganglia, or pass through these without interruption to enter into relationshij) with the cells of the prevertebral plexuses. I LIOHY POGASTRIC Fig. OS-.—rutancnus nerves of tlie back of the Fig. 688.—Areas of distribution of the cutaneous lower limb. (W. Keiller.) nerves of the back of the lower limb. (Testut.) Medullated nerves (forming white rami communicantes) are not furnished to the sympathetic cords by all the cerebro-spinal nerves. In man white rami com- municantes are derived from the thoracic and the first (and perha]>s the second) lum- bar nerves ; while the short root of the ciliary ganglion from the third nerve, the visceral branches of the facial, glossopharyngeal, vagus, and spinal accessory, and641 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. the visceral branches of the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves may be classed in the same category, though most of these join the subsidiary plexuses and not the gangliated cords. Fig. 689.—Cutaneous nerves of the sole. (W. Keil- Fig. 690.—Areas of distribution ot the cutaneous ler.) nerves of the sole. (\V. KeiUer.) The non-meduUatcd nerves commence as axis-cylinder processes of the gan- glion cells. Some are distributed in gray rami communicantes to spinal nerves, and in them reach the vessels, fascite, bones, etc., for which they are destined \ ACCOMPANYING DORSAL ROOT TO DURA ^DORSAL SPINAL NERVE ROOT SOMATIC VASOMOTOR, PILOMOTOR, SECRETORY k ,.iC'*__ TO VERTESR/E LIGAMENTS, %^ HECURREKL=^^^fc' SPINAL VESSELS & DUJiA TO HIGHER GANGLIA iSYMPATHETIC TRUNK RAMI EFFERENTES SYMPATHETIC GANGLION FROM RAMUS COMMUN. TO VERTEBR/t AND INTERCOSTAL AND LUMBAR VESSELS. MEDUULATED FIBRES PASSING THROUGH THE GANGLION TO PREVERTEBRAL PLEXUSES ^ OR DIRECTLY TO VISCEBA, fs^SYMPATHETIC TRUNK FROM LOWER GANGLIA TO LOWER GANGLIA r;.r.Fjfl' .^''l-rPlan of a vertebral ganglion of the sympathetic cord and its connections. Medullated fibres tSt ^w'^KeUlerT """"^ lines, non-meduUated fibres by interrupted lines. For references to letters see some join neighboring ganglia, and others pass in rami efferentes directlv to viscera and vessels or to the prevertebral plexuses. 41THE NERVES. 642 These connections will be better nnderstood by examining tlie plan drawn out in Fig. 691. There a represents a medullated nerve-fibre from a ventral nerve- root, passing by a white ramus communicans through the ganglion directly con- nected with that spinal nerve to a ganglion higher up, where it will form an arliorization round a nerve-cell, like e ; 6, a niedvdlated nerve-fibre forming an arlxtrization round a cell of the ganglion of its own segment; c, a fibre jjassing through the ganglion without interruption ant! leaving it by one of its efferent branches to a prevertebral plexus or directly to some viscus ; <}, a fibre passing through the ganglion to some lower ganglion, there to end round some nerve-cell, or jiass out through an efferent ramus ; c, a medullated nerve from a lower gan- glion, behaving as a. The dotted lines are non-mcdullated nerves. Tlie fibre, arises as the axis- cylinder process of a ganglion cell, and passes by a gray ramus c(»mmunicans along the sheath of the posterior nerve-root to the spinal meninges ; fj passes by the posterior division to supply sympathetic fibres to its area of distribution ; h enters the anterior division and is similarly distributed ; h joins the spinal recur- rent branch to supply the interior of the vertebral canal, and I passes for a little way along the gray ramus communicans, but leaves it to be distributed to the sides of the vertebrae and intercostal or lumbar vessels. Gray fibres to the pre- vertebral plexuses, vessels, or viscera, are represented by m, m ; and n, n are non- mcdullated fibres joining neigh- boring ganglia. In addition to these, sensory fibres from the ganglia of the posterior spinal nerve-roots pass through the sympathetic ganglia to vis- cera without interruption. CAVERNOUS PLEXUS FIRST CERVICAL NERVE EIGHTH CERVICAL NERVE FIRST THORACIC NERVE .LARY NERVE SPHENO-PALATIf GANGLION The Sympathetic in the Neck. . MIDDLE CERVICAL ,£ GANGLION In the neck there are only three ganglia (Fig. 692). The upper one, however, is an inch or more in length, and is fre- quently constricted at intervals. It is connected with the four ujjper cervical nerves and ap- pears to consist of four ganglia fused together. The second ganglion is small, but is connected with two nerves ; and the third ganglion, intermediate in size, is connected with the lower two ceiwieal nerves. These ganglia and their intervening cord lie in front of the trans- verse processes of the cervical vertebrae, being separated from them by the rectus capitis an- terior major above and longus colli below with the preverte- bral fascia. The common and internal cai'otid arteries and the carotid sheath lie in front of them, and the vagus nerve lies to the outer side. The Superior Cervical Ganglion.—This ganglion is fusiform in shape, reddish- . LOWER CERVICAL GANGLION Fig. 692.—Diagram of the cervical synipatlietic. (Testut.)THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. 643 gray in color, an inch to an inch and a half long, and is placed in front of the transverse jirocesses of the second and third cervical vertebrje, and rectus capitis anterior major. In front of it is the internal carotid artery, and to its outer side the vagus nerve. Connectio)is.—Its maeiidiag branch enters the cranium ; its lower end is con- nected to the second ganglion. Gray rami coviiuimicaidc-t pass from it to the four upper cervical nerves, while its meduUated connections with the spinal cord take a circuitous course, being derived from the upjjcr dorsal nerves, and ascending to join it through the sympathetic trunk. Besides connections with cranial nerves, through its ascending branch (about to be described), it is joined by filaments to the lower ganglion of the vagus and the hypoglossal nerve ; and a small juf/n/ar branch ascends to the jugular fora- men, and there divides into two, one branch going to the root ganglion of the pneumogastric, and the other to the petrosal ganglion of the glossopharyngeal. It distributes pharyngeal branches to the pharyngeal plexus, filaments to the upper cervical vertebrte and their ligaments, and branches to blood-vessels ; and from it also springs the upper cardiac nerve. The Ascending Branch.—The ascending or carotid braneli runs upward on the inner side of the carotid artery to the carotid canal where it divides into an inner and an outer division. Each division gives otf S(jme special branches, and then they both ascend on the termination of the carotid artery, supply that vessel, and terminate in plexuses on the ophthalmic and anterior and middle cerebral arteries. The outer division, as it ascends on the outer side of the carotid trunk, receives one or two carotico-tjpnpanic filaments from the tympanic branch of the glosso- pharyngeal, and then forms the carotid plexus on the carotid artery, as it lies in the carotid canal. This plexus gives a twig to the si.zth nerve as the latter crosses the carotid artery, some filaments to the Gasserian ganglion, the large deep petrosal nerve to the Vidian, and the small deep petrosal nerve to the tympanic plexus. The inner division ascends on the inner side of the carotid artery, and forms a plexus on that vessel as it lies in the wall of the cavernous sinus, which is hence called the cavernous plexus. From this plexus filaments are given to the third nerve near its bifurcation, and to the fourth nerve as it runs in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus. The si/mpathefic root of the ciliari/ ganglion and filaments to the pituifari/ bodi/ are also derived from this plexus. The pharyngeal branches of the sympathetic arise from the fore part of the ganglion. They descend on the side of the pharynx and unite with the pharyn- geal branches of the pneumogastric and glossopharyngeal to form the pharyngeal plexus. The superior cardiac branch of the sympathetic springs by two or more branches from the ganglion and sometimes from the sympathetic trunk below it. It descends behind the carotid sheath on the longus colli muscle and prevertebral fascia, crosses over or beneath the inferior thyroid artery, and beneath the recur- rent laryngeal nerve. As they enter the thorax the two nerves differ in their courses. The right nerve runs in front of or behind the subclavian artery and along the brachio-cephalic artery to the back of the aortic arch, where it joins the deep cardiac plexus. It is usually joined by the superior cardiac branches of the right vagus. The left superior cardiac nerve, behaving similarly to the right nerve in the neck, enters the chest along the side of the left common carotid artery, and crosses the aortic arch to join the superficial cardiac plexus. Occasi(jnally it passes behind the aortic arch to the deep cardiac plexus. Besides the branch described to the internal carotid artery, this ganglion supjilies filaments, which form a plexus on the external carotid artery and its various branches. From the plexus on the facial artery a branch is sent to the submaxillary ganglion; and the plexus on the middle meningeal artery supplies the otic ganglion with its sympathetic root, and sends a filament to the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve.THE NERVES. 644 The Middle Cervical Ganglion.—The middle cei'vical gnnulion is much the smallest of the three. It is sometimes absent and occasionally double. AVhen single it is usually situated where the cord crosses the inferior thyroid artery opj)osite the sixth or seventh cervical vertebra. It is joined by gray rami com- lunnicantes to the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. It gives off tlii/roid hrctnchcx, which run on the inferior thyroid artery to the thyroid gland, communicating with the recurrent and external laryngeal and tlie upper cardiac nerves. Tlie middle cardide branch, of the sympathetic, springing from this ganii'lion on the ri(/}d .side, descends in front of or beliind the subclavian arterv and on the side of the trachea to the deep cardiac plexus, comnumicating witii tiie upjicr cardiac nerve and recurrent laryngeal branch of the vagus. On the left .sic/c this nerve descends between the left carotid and subclavian arteries to the deep cardiac plexus, uniting on its way with tlie left inferior cai-diac nerve. The Inferior Cervical Ganglion.—The inferior cervical ganglion is larger than the Inst, and irregular or st'miluuar in shape. It lies just over the neck of the first rib and under cover of the vertebral artery. To the middle cervical gan- glion it is united by two or more cords, one usually passing behind the vertt'bral artery, one in front of it, and one forming a loop round the subclavian artery (ansa subclavia A'icusseuii). It may blend with the first thoracic ganglion or be united to it by a short intervening cord. Gray rami coinmunicanfc!^ pass from this ganglion to the seventh and eighth cervical nerves. Its cffcrcnf branches are the inferior cardiac nerve and ottsets to blood-vessels. The inferior cardiere nerre, springing from this ganglion or the first thoracic, on the right side communicates behind the subclavian artery with the middle cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves, on the left side usually forms a common trunk with the middle cardiac nerve. Both go to the deep cardiac plexus. The vascular branches of this ganglion and the first thoracic unite in forming the plexus on the vertebral artery, and ascend on that vessel to tlie basilar artery and its branches within the cranium. (Note.—The gross anatomy of the cervical sympathetic gives no idea of its true anatomical relations as revealed by jihysiological exjieriments and ])atho- logical phenomena. The physiological connections as at present understood may be summarized as follows : 1. Pupillo-dilator fibres pass by white rami communicantes from the first, second, and third thoracic nerves, ascend in the sympathetic cord to the superior cervical ganglion to form arborizations round its cells. Thence gray fibres jiass to the Gasserian ganglion and reach the eyeball by the ophtlialmie division of the fifth and long ciliary nerves. 2. Motor fibres to the involuntary muscles of the orbit and eyelids from the fourth and fifth thoracic nerves follow a similar course. 3. Vasomotor fibres to the head, secretory fibres to the submaxillary gland, and pilomotor fibres to the head and neck are derived from the upper thoracic nerves and reach their areas of distribution after similar interruption in the supe- rior cervical ganglion. 4. The acceleratin' fibres of the licart are derived from the n]iper thoracic spinal nerves, and end similarly in the middle and lower cervical ganglia, gray fibres in the cervical cardiac nerves completing the connection.) The Thoracic Portion of the Gangliated Cord. In the thorax the sympathetic cord (Fig. (!!);>) presents eleven, seldom twelve, ganglia, the first thoracic ganglion frequently blending with the last cervical. When existing separately the first ganglion lies beneath the head of the first rib; the rest, with the exception of the twelfth, lie on the heads of the ribs, under cover of the pleura, the intervening cord lying in front of the intercostal vessels. The twelfth thoracic ganglion approaches nearer to the middle line, lying on the645 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. side of the twelfth thoracic vertebra, between it and the diaphragm, and from it the cord descends into the abdomen through the crus <jf the diaphragm to unite the last thoracic to the first lumbar ganglion. Rami Communicanfes.—Two rami communicantes, sometimes called the exter- nal branches, unite each ganglion to its corresponding spinal nerve. Of these one is usually white, the other gray. 1 RENAL PLEXUS Fig. 693.—Plan of right sympathetic cord and splanchnic nerves. (Testut.) The rami ejferentes, called the internal branches, are divisible into an upper and a lower series. The icpper series proceeds from the upper four or five ganglia to the aorta, forming with branches from the splanchnic the thoracic aortic plexus. Other slender filaments supply the vertebrae and ligaments, and the second, third, and fourth ganglia send branches to the posterior pulmonary plexus. The lotoer series includes the internal branches of the lower six or seven ganglia. They form the great, small, and least splanchnic nerves. The great splanchnic (visceral) nerve is formed by the convergence on the sides of the vertebrae of the internal branches of the fifth or sixth to the ninth or tenth ganglia inclusive. These branches and the resulting trunk distribute fila-646 THE NERVES. ments to the vertebriie and aorta as they descend, the trnnks then piercing the cms of the diaphragm, and entering the npper angle of the seniihinar ganglion. It occasionally sends fibres to the suprarenal body and renal plexus. This nerve largely consists of niedullated fibres, some of which may be traced in the sympa- thetic cord till they join the third thoracic nerve. The small splanchnic nerve, rising from the ninth and tenth, or ninth, tenth, and eleventh ganglia, passes beneath the cms or internal arcuate ligament of the diaphragm, to the aortico-renal ganglion, and sometimes sends fil)res to the renal plexus. The least splanchnic nerve, from the last thoracic ganglion, descends beneath the internal arcuate ligament to the renal plexus. {Note.—It should be remembered that most of the white rami communicantes, which pass from the spinal cord to the sympathetic trunk, do so by the thoracic nerve; but that they do not by any means all end in thoracic ganglia. For example, the pupillo-motor fibres, vasomotor fibres of the head and neck, secretory fibres of the sulMuaxillary gland and accelerator fibres of the heart leave the sjjinal cord by upper thoracic nerves and ascend in the sympathetic trunk to form arborizations round the cells of the cervical ganglia. In the dog and cat the white rami communicantes from the thoracic nerves have been shown to contain, in addition to tlie above, vaso-constrictor fibres of the pulmonary vessels, and of the vessels of the fore and hind limbs, and secretory fibres to the sweat glands and pilo-motor fibres to the hair of both limbs, as well as viscero-inhibitory fibres to the stomach and intestines, and vasomotor nerves to the abdominal vessels.) The Lumbar Portion of the Gangliated Cord (Fig. 694). There are usually four lumbar ganglia, which lie in front of the vertebral bodies on the inner side of the psoas muscles, the left trunk and its ganglia being overlapped by the aorta, and the right by the inferior vena cava. The ganglia are generally connected somewhat irregularly by -white and gray rami communicantes with the lumbar nerves, Avhich reach the ganglia by passing beneath the fibrous arches of the psoas muscle. Efferent branches join the aortic and hypogastric plexuses, and small filaments pass to vertebrse and ligaments. (Note.—The lumbar sympathetic is connected with the lower limb, rectum, penis, bladder, uterus, and vas deferens, while the other abdominal viscera are connected through the solar plexus with the lower six thoracic nerves.) From these ganglia and the intervening meshwork are given off plexuses, which correspond in name and distribution to the upper branches of the abdominal aorta. Thus the diaphraffmafie or j^hrenic plexvsef^ spring from the upper part of the semi- lunar ganglia. They accompany the phrenic arteries, and are joined by the phrenic nerves. A ganglion is formed at their junction on the right side (want- ing on the left side) whence branches pass to the vena cava, suprarenal body, and hepatic plexus. Suprarenal plexuses accompany the arteries of the same name from the phrenic artery, aorta, and renal artery. They are thus deri-s-ed from the phrenic, solar and renal plexuses. They contain many minute ganglia. The renal pjlexxis springs from the aortico-renal ganglion, and solar and aortic plexuses, and receives the small splanchnic nerve. It accompanies the renal artery to the kidney substance, and gives branches to the suprarenal body, sper- matic plexus and ureter, and on the right side the vena cava. The spermatic plexus springs from the renal and aortic jilexuses and accom- panies the spermatic artery to the testis, receiving an accession from the pelvic sympathetic along the vas deferens. In the female it is represented by the ovarian plexus to the ovary and uterus. The cceliae plexus is large in accordance with the size and extensive distribu- tion of the cceliae axis. It gives off secondary plexuses corresponding in namesTHE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. 647 and distribution to the branches of that vessel. Of these plexuses the hepatic and coronary are joined by branches of the left pneumogastric, and the splenic plexus is reinforced from the right pneumogastric. The superior mesenteric plexus is derived from the solar plexus, superior mesenteric ganglion, and right pneumogastric. It is distributed to the intestine, at first following the branches of its artery closely ; but its finer filaments leave the vessels. The aortic plexus is formed of two cords and an intervening network, which descend on the abdominal aorta beneath the superior mesenteric artery. It is Fig. 694.—Lower half of right sympathetic cord. (Testut, after Hirschfeld.) joined by branches from the lumbar ganglia, gives off the inferior mesenteric plexus and branches to the spermatic plexus and inferior vena cava, and ends below in the hypogastric plexus. The inferior mesenteric plexus is derived from the aortic. It corresponds in distribution and communications with the artery of the same name. The Hypogastric Plexus.—Branches from the aortic plexus descend on the aortic bifurcation to the front of the fifth lumbar vertebra, where they are joined by strong fibres from the lower lumbar sympathetic ganglia, which cross over the common iliac arteries. These form together in front of the fifth lumbar vertebra a coarse meshwork invested in dense fibrous tissue, called the hypogastric plexus.THE NERVES. 648 It contains no gans^lia. In front of tlic sacrum it splits into two lateral portions, which join the pelvic plexuses. The Pe/vie Flcxu.s.—Lying on each side of the rectum and bladder in the male, and of the rectum, vagina, and bladder in the female, is a network, rich in ganglia where the fibres interlace, formed by the continuation of the hypogastric plexus, offsets from the upper sacral ganglia, and branches from the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves. This is the inferior hypogastric or pelvic plexus. From this branches are distributed to the pelvic viscera, which at first folloAV the branches of the internal iliac artery, their terminal twigs leaving the vessels and entering the substance of the organs. Thus the inllowing secondary plexuses are formed, viz : The hemorrhoidal plc.rus, derived from the upper part of the pelvic plexus, accompanies the middle hemorrhoidal artery and joins with the plexus on the superior hemorrhoidal vessels in suj)plying the rectal wall. The vertical plexus is a close network, rich in sjiinal fibres, which is best marked over the sides and base of the bladder. It gives off plexuses to the vasa defcrentia and vesiculse seminales, of which the former join the spermatic plexuses and the latter receive communications from the prostatic plexus. The prostatic plexus, lying between the ])rostate and levator ani, sends fibres backward to join the plexuses on the vesicuhiL' seminales and tVirward through the triangular ligament to the corpus cavernosum. The vaginal j^lcxus is largely composed of spinal nerves. It sujiplies the mucous membrane and erectile tissues of the vagina, and sends twips to the clitoris. The uterine plexus is mainly derived from the pelvic continuation of the hvpo- gastric plexus and third and fourth sacral nerves. It enters the broad ligament, communicates there with the ovarian plexus, and is mainly distributed over the neck and hiwer part of the body of the uterus. It contains numerous ganglia. The apparent hypertro2)hy of these nerves in pregnancy is due to thickening of their iibrous sheaths. The Sacral Portion of the Gangliated Cord. In the pelvis the sympathetic trunks, much diminished in size, descend on the inner sides of the anterior sacral foramina, a ganglion usually appearing for each of the four u]i])er sacral nerves. In front of the coccyx the tAvo cords unite in one ganglion, called the ganglion inqjar, which is usually connected with both coccygeal nerves. Short rami communicantes connect each of these ganglia with one or more of the sacral'nerves, and rami eiferentes join the pelvic plexus, while others form a plexus on the middle sacral artery or jiass to the sacrum and coccyx and their liga- ments. Through the pelvic ])lexus the pelvic viscera are supplied Avith motor, vasomotor, and secretoiy fibres. The Prevertebral Plexuses of the Sympathetic.—These plexuses are named respectively the cardiac, solar, hypogastric, and pelvic. Each plexus is single and median, and is composed of nerves derived from both sympathetic trunks, with others derived from the cerebro-spinal nerves. Ganglia are developed in their meshes and from them subsidiary j^lexuses are formed. The Cardiac Plexus.—Beneath and behind the aortic arch is a meshwork of nerve-fibres, which for convenience of description is divided into a superficial and a deep portion, though the two form one continuous plexus. The nerves enter- ing into this plexus are the superior and inferior cervical cardiac branches of the vagi, the thoracic cardiac branches of the same nerves, and the superior, middle, and infei'ior cardiac branches of the sympathetic. Of these nerves the superior cardiac branch of the left sympathetic trunk, and the lower cervical cardiac branch of the left pneumogastric form, in the concavity of the aortic arch, the superficial cardiac p>le,xus. In its meshes is a small ganglion.649 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. the ganrflinyi of Wrisherr/. It sends branches to the riglit coronary plexus and left anterior pulmonary plexus, the latter accomjianying the left branch of the pulmonary artery. All the other cardiac nerves above mentioned join in forming the deep cardiaG plexus which lies in the bifurcation of the trachea behind the aortic arch. From it branches are distributed to both auricles, both coronary plexuses, and both pul- monary plexuses. Of the coronary plexuses the right is the smaller. It is derived from Ijoth cardiac plexuses, its branches surrounding the root of the aorta. It descends on the right coronary artery, sending filaments to ramify between the pericardium and muscular wall of the heart, the ultimate fibres entering the muscle substance. The left coronary jjlexus is derived from the deep cardiac plexus. It passes between the pulmonary artery and left auricular appendix, and accompanies the left coronary artery. The Solar or Epigastrie Plexus.—Lying in front of the crura of the diaphragm and at the sides of the aorta, just after that vessel appears in the abdomen, are two large ganglionic masses united to each other by a coarse network of nerve fibres, which surrounds the origins of the cceliac axis and superior mesenteric arte- ries. This is the solar or epigastrie plexus. It lies behind the stomach, above the pancreas, and between the suprarenal bodies. Each ganglionic mass presents one large irregular body at its upper part, called the semilunar ganglion, which receives the great splanchnic nerve at its upper angle. Continuous with the semilunar ganglion, but marked off from it by a con- striction, is a smaller body, the aortieo-renal ganglion, which receives the small splanchnic, and gives off the greater part of the renal plexus ; while a still smaller body, lying to the right of the superior mesenteric artery, forms the supjerior mesenteric ganglion. Through this plexus the abdominal viscera above the pelvis are connected with the lower six thoracic ganglia and thoracic spinal nerves, and it is significant that these last supply the abdominal wall.I651 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. THE five senses of touch, taste, smell, hearing, and sight have as their special organs the skin, the tongue, the nose, the ear, and the eye respectively. Of the five the commonest, the least specialized sense is that of touch, and its organ is of the greatest extent and the smallest dift'ercntiation. The other senses dis- play progressively increasing delicacy in the order as named above : touch is excited only by the impact of some body ; taste requires the contact of the solu- tion of a sapid substance ; smell is produced by the impression of volatilized materials ; hearing results from the agitation of the endolymph (a fluid contained in the ear), whose wavelets beat upon the auditory surface; and sight is called into being only by the undulations of the ether which is believed to pervade all space. The organs of the senses above the tactile are either localized, inward extensions of the integument or inversions of it, which have become cf>mpletely isolated. In every case there is a modification of the epithelium of the area concerned, amounting to a s])ecialization. These epithelial cells have already been mentioned, as forming the variety called iieuro-epitheUnm for the reason that they are so peculiarly related to specialized portions of the nervous system. Fi'om all of these facts it will be seen that tactile sensibility is the humble px'ogenitor of every other sense, and that, unlikely as it seems to one who docs not consider everything which is involved, sight is but toucli glorified. THE SKIN. By W. KEILLER. AS one of the main functions of the skin is t/ie sense of touch, it may be con- veniently described among the sensory organs ; though, in addition to serving this function, it is protective, and excretory, and an important regulator of the body temperature. It consists (Fig. 695) of a deep layer, called tlie true skin or corium, which contains nerve endings, vessels, sweat glands, hairs, and sebaceous glands, embedded in a fibrous matrix ; and a superficial, ejiithelial layer, the ejtidermis or evticJe, which covers and protects the whole, and furnishes the epithelial elements of the glands and hairs just mentioned.652 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. Examined on the snrface the skin varies ranch in textnre, being rongh and thick on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, even of the newborn child ; of medinm thickness on the scalp and dorsal surface of the trnnk, and thinnest on the ventral snrface of the trunk and inner sur- faces of the limbs. It is marked, throughout by furrows which differ in character. Over most of the body the furrows are like those on the back of the hand, shallow and intersecting each other so as to enclose angular areas, the bail's usually springing from intersecting points. On the palm and sole the furrows run in parallel lines, forming definite patterns (Fig. 696), which, while they correspond in the main, are peculiar to each individual, and never change throughout life in spite of the passage of the soft palm of babyhood into the horny hand of age and toil. Hence the value of the hand im- pression in wax as a means of identification. These ridges and gi'ooves are formed in the true skin on which the cuticle is accurately moulded. Deep and long grooves subtend the joints. The true skin blends with the loose subcutaneous tissue, and by its agency is made freely movable on the deep fascia. On the palms, soles, scalp, and pinna, however, the skin is closely bound to the deeper aponeurotic structures. The hairs and nails are modified epidermis, the sweat and sebaceous glands epi- thelial invaginations. The Epidermis (cuticle, scarfskin) is foi-med of stratified epithelium in many layers. It varies from to of an inch in thickness, being thickest on the palms and soles. It is roughly divisible into two strata, the Malpighian layer Fig. 696.—Arrangement of the papillary folds on the palmar surface of the distal segment of the thumb. (Testut.)653 THE SKIN. (wliich includes the four deep layers to be described) and a superficial, horny layer. Next to the trUe skin is a single layer of co/vvinar ('(//s', the parent cells of the rest; then come polyhedral cell>< to a considerable depth, each communicating with its neighbors by strands of protoplasm, giving them a prickly appearance (hence the term " prickle cells "). This stratum is covered by two thin strata, which ex- hibit changes antecedent to their assuming the characters of the horny layer, namely the stratum (/ranulosuia and the strat'iim lucklum. Their peculiar ap]iear- ance is due to a progressive accumulation in droplets of a substance called eleidin. Superimposed on these is the horny layer {stj-atmn corneum), the cells of which become gradually more flattened toward the surface, lose their nuclei, and have their substance converted into keratin. During life the superficial cells of this layer are being constantly shed and renewed from those beneath. The pigment in the skin of the negro, as well as that of the nipple and elsewhere in white races, is found in the deepest cells of the Malpighian layer. The True Skin {eutis vera, derma, corium) consists of a fibrous matrix with vessels, lymphatics, and nerves embedded therein. It blends gradually with the superficial fascia, in which, with the exception of that on the ])enis, scrotum, labia minora, and eyelids, clusters of fat cells are accumulated. This loose areolar sul)cutaneous layer enables the skin to move freely on the deep fascia. The true skin is formed of interlacing bundles of white fibrous tissue with numerous elastic fibres and connective-tissue corpuscles. In connection with the hairs, and in the cutis vera of the sei'otum, penis, pei'ineum, areola of the nipple, and the nipple itself, smooth muscular fibres are found in fasciculi. The free surface of the corium is raised to form the ridges already described as seen on the surface of the skin, and on their summits simple and cdmpound j>flpy7/(r are developed, which are received into i)its on the deep surface of the cuticle (Fig. 697). These papillas are most numerous where sensation is most acute, as on the Fig. 697.—Papillae of the skin. Tho ciiideriiiis li:is liec n InoseiR-d by maceration and lifted off, and its under surface shows the pits into which the papilla littud. Sweat-glands are" stretched or broken across. (Testut.) pulp of the fingers. On the palm, sole, and nipple they are numerous and measure from -^^-^ to ^wn "^^'^ height. They are few and small on the face, and in some parts are altogether absent. Some of these papillre have vascular loops prolonged into them, some have touch-corpuscles (Fig. 61>8). The bloodvessels of the skin are found in the cutis vera only. They form a capillary network from which branches pass to the hairs, glands, and fat, and capillary loops project into the papillae. The lymphatics form a deep and super-654 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. ficial network accompanying the vessels. As in other tissnes they originate in the intercellular spaces. The cutaneous nerves form a subepithelial plexus, from which twigs are given CAPILLARY. LOOP SUBCUTANEOUS CAPILLARY PLEXUS 'CUTANEOUS NER«ES Fig. 698.—PapillEe of the skin, showing tlie arrangement of the vessels and nerves. (Testut.) off to end in special terminal bodies of varied chai'acter, or, again, each fibre may divide and redivide dichotomously, soon losing its medullary sheath, the axis cylinder ultimately breaking up into its constituent fibres, Avliich end in minute DEEPEST LAYER OF THE EPIDERMIS ./ft . CONNECTIVE TISSUE ! OF DERMAL PAPILLA MYELIN SHEATH FIBROUS ENVELOP OF CORPUSCLE CONNECTIVE TIS' SUE SEPTUM TACTILE CELL. CONNECTIVE TIS- SUE NUCLEUS NAKED AXIS- CYLINDER BUNDLE OF FIBRILS EMERQ- INQ FROM NODE OF RANVIER TACTILE DISC MYELIN SHEATH- Fig. 099.—Toueh-corpuscle in vertical section. Semidiagramniatic. (Testut.) knob-like processes among the cells of the Malpighian layer. The forms of end organs are very numerous, but we will describe m\\y those known as touch-cor- puscles, end bulbs, and Pacinian bodies. Touch-corpuscles (Fig. 699) are found in the dermal ]>apill8e of the palm and sole, nipple, conjunctiva, lips, and tip of the tongue. They are ovoid bodies with655 THE HKIN. a fibrous c;ipsiile sending septa into the interior. One or more mediillated fibres either at once enter the corpuscle, or first wind round it several times. On entering, the nerve loses its medullary sheath^ and its axis cylinder breaks up into fil)rils, which ramify minutely through the corpuscle, oval swellings forming on the branches. End bulbs of spheroidal form are found in the papilke of the skin of the lips, of the glans penis and glans clitoridis, in the conjunctiva, in the mucous mem- brane of the cheeks, soft palate, tongue, epiglottis, and rectum. Similar organs are found in the sheaths of nerve trunks. These bodies consist of a connective- tissue capsule containing nucleated cells, among which the axis cylinder of the nerve terminates. Pacinian Corpuscles (Fig. 700) are small, seed-like bodies, to -^^ of an inch l(»ng, and -^-^ to .^V of an inch thick, found in clusters on the digital nerves of the hand and foot, and in many other situations. A Pacinian cor])uscle is lamel- lated like an onion, having in some cases 40 to 60 coats, the inner Inminas thinner and more closely packed than the outer. The laraellaj are fibrous in character. Fig. 700.—Pacinian corpuscle in vertical section. (Testut.) continuous with the layers of the perineurium, and have lymph-spaces between them. In the centre of the body is an elongated, homogeneous core, into which the nerve penetrates. It courses along the middle of the core till it approaches the opposite end of the coi'puscle, and then divides into processes, which end in bulbous extremities. Each corpuscle is supplied with a small capillary vessel, and has a distinct fibrous capsule. • NAILS AND HAIRS. The nails and hairs are formed of modified epithelium on a special dermal substratum.656 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. Nails. Each nail (Figs. 701-703) consists of a boiJji, which is translucent, showing readily the red glow of the underlying capillary vessels, except at its proximal extremity, where it is more opaque over a crescentic area called the lumda. The opacity and consequent whitish color is due to the greater thickness of the Malpigliian layer in this situation. The free edge of the nail overhangs the tip of the digit; its root is embedded proxinuxUy in a deep groove in the skin, from which an epidermal nutnf/e ])roiects over the lunula. Its lateral bordert< are sunk in furrows, which have an overhanging nail^wall of upfolded skin. From free edge to lunula the nail is closely ad- herent to an epidermal nail-bed, but from the lunula to the proximal margin of the root this bed is called the ^ ^ matrix, because it is here only that the growth of nail takes place. The vail-mbstance consists of Hattened, (TesTit!) ~ " closely-packed cells, wliich, on addition of an alkali, swell up and are seen to retain their nuclei; hence they repre- sent a condensed stratum lucidum. The nail-bed is essentially the Malpighian layer, its cells being more heaped up over the matrix, as already stated. The dermal constituent of the matrix is exceedingly vascular, and studded with large vascular papillte, while the derma under the nail-bed is raised into parallel longi- tudinal ridges. Hairs (Figs. 704, 705). With a few exceptional areas the whole skin is studded with hairs, varying in texture from the fine down {lanugo), scarcely projecting beyond the hair follicles, found on the eyelids and inner surface of the lal>ia majora, to the long hairs of the scalp, and short, crisp, thick hairs of the beard and pubes. The skin of the palms and soles, the dorsal surfaces of the third plialanges of the fingers and toes, the inner surface of the prepuce in the male, the labia minora in the female, the glans penis and glans clitoridis are devoid of hairs. In straight- haired races the hairs are thick, coarse, and cylindrical, in crisp-haired races thin and flattened, being oval on section. Dark hairs are coarser than those of lighter color. The jiortion of a hair projecting beyond the surface is its skcift or stem, that embedded in the skin is its root. The root ends in a bulbous enlargement, which is implanted on a dermal papilla. It is contained in an invaginated tube of skin, called a follicle, which furnishes it with an outer dermic and an inner epidermic coat. A hair has on its surface a single layer of thin, imbricated, scale-like cells,657 THE SKIN. their free margins pointing outward. These form the liair cnfic/r. Next comes the cortical Huhatance, some Iiairs liaving in addition a medulla or pitli. The cortical substance consists of closely set elongated cells, which still retain a trace of a nucleus. The cells and intercellular spaces contain pigment, varying in amount with the color of the hair. Between the cells are air-spaces, the air being most al)undant in white hair. In the thick, short hairs of the pubes, the hair of the beard, and in white hair in the scalp there is a central pith. It is composed of irregular, j)olyhedral cells, containing many air-spaces. The pith does not extend to the jioiiit of the hair, is not present in children under five years of age, and is not found in the colored haii's of the scalp, or in tine hairs. Toward the bulb the cells wliich form the hair become polyhedral, and resemble the cells of the Malpighian layer. The bulb expands to enclose a vas- cular papilla of cutis vera. The hair follicle (Fig. 705) has dermic and epidermic constituents. The dermic coat consists of three layers. The outer layer is formed of longitudinally HAIR Fig. 704.—Vertical section of the skin, showing a hair and its follicle. (Testut.) arranged white fibres with connective-tissue corjniscles, and numerous vessels and nerves. It is continuous with the reticular layer of the corium. Within this is a layer of circular fibres, which appears to represent the pa]>illarv layer of the corium, and within these is a structureless lamina (the hyaline layer), repre- senting the basement membrane of f etal skin. These two inner layers extend out from the bottom of the follicle to the openings of the sebaceous glands. The epidermie coat is divisible into two parts, the outer root-sheath, which is simply the Malpighian stratum of the epidermis, and the inner root-sheath, which may be taken as representing the stratum lucidum, and presents three characteristic layers. On the outside, and next to the outer root-sheath is Hevle's layer, a single layer of non-nucleated, flattened cells ; then comes Huxley's layer, consisting of polyhedral cells, two or three deep ; and lastly the cuticle of the root-sheath, a 42THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. 658 single layer of flattened cells, imbricated on each other, so as to fit into the depression on the hair cuticle, their free edge thus being directed downward. All the layers of the root-sheath blend at the bottom of the follicle, and become con- tinuous with the cells of the hair bulb. The inner root-sheath ceases where the sebaceous gland enters the hair follicle. Lastly the stratum corneum dips a little way into the mouth of the follicle. The hair-papilla is a fungiform process, consisting of connective tissue with CORTEX MEDULLA i HAIR CUTICLE INTERNAL EPIDERMIC COAT CAPILLARY LOOP Fig. 705.—Vertical section of the root of a hair. (Testut.) pigment cells and blood-vessels, which projects into a cup-shaped cavity in the bulb. Muscles of the Hairs.—Slender bundles of unstriped muscle, the arrectores ■pilonun ("erectors of the hairs"), arise from the superficial layers of the corium and run obliquely inward to be attached to the fibrous coat of the hair follicles on the side toward which the hairs lie. They cause the hairs to stand erect. Ncn-fff are supplied to the fibrous coat and outer root-sheath, and perhaps to the papilla. They form a delicate plexus round the root-sheath. The Sebaceous Glands (Fig. 704). The .sebaceous ("fat") glands usually open into the hair follicles, and are found wherever hairs are. But in addition they occur on the labia minora, ]ire- puce, glans penis and glans clitoridis, the red edge of the lips, and, in a modified form, as Meibomian glands, in the eyelids. They are small on the head, large on the nose and most of the face, mons Veneris, laljia majora, and scrotum. They are seldom simple, usually compound, saccular glands with short ducts, and lie between the hairs and their arrector muscles, so that the action of the arrectors will expel their fatty secretion. The number of acini in a single gland varies from four or five to twenty.THE SKIN. 659 The Sweat-Glands (Fig. 695). Except in the depths of the external auditory meatus and on the tympanic membrane, sweat-glands are found over the whole integument. They are most numerous on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, 2800 to the square inch ; on the back of the neck and trunk there are only 400 to 600 in the same urea. They vary much in size, being largest in the axilla and groin. Krause estimates their total number as about two millions. A swvat-glund is an invaginated, epithelial tube, which sinks through the cor- ium into the subcutaneous fatty tissue, and there coils up into a ball. Thus it is a simple tubular gland, the coiled-up extremity being the secreting portion, the straight tube its excretory duct. In the epidermis the chid is a simple channel with no detinite walls, and where the horny layer is thick it twists in cork-screw fashion. As it passes througii the corium, the duct derives from it a richly vascular fibrous coat, within which is a basement membrane. The duct, much smaller tlian the coiled, secreting portion of the tube, is lined by small poly- hedral cells, two deep, whose free surface is condensed into an appearance sug- gesting a delicate cuticle. In the secreting segment a layer of smooth muscular fibres, longitudinally arranged, is placed next the basement membrane, and on this a single layer of columnar cells with nuclei near their attached extremities. The ceruminous glands of the ear and the glands of Moll in the eyelid are modi- fied sweat-glands. Tlie sweat-glands in the axilla and round the anus and, of course, the ceruminous glands have an oily secretion; the rest secrete a colorless, slightly tui'bid, aqueous fluid, the perspii'ation.THE TONGUE. By F. H. GERRISH. EPIGLOTTIS I CIRCUIM- VALLATE PAPILL/E THE tongue has various functions. It is necessary for articulate speech, per- forms valuable service in the pi'ocesses of mastication and deglutition, possesses tactile sensibility to a high degree, and is the principal organ of taste. It is only in its sensory relations that it will be considered in this place. Its other features will be de- "^"'■* scribed in connection Avith the other parts of the mouth and pharynx. The mucoaa of tJie dor- sum (Fig. 706) is the only part of the tongue having gustatory capacity. The anterior two-thirds of this surface presents in the mouth, the posterior third in the pharynx, the bound- ary between the two being marked by a line of large projections, the circumvul- late papi/ke, arranged like an inverted V, with widely spread branches. The oral imrt of the dorsum is besprinkled with smaller jjrocesses, the fiinf/iform papillae, and elsewhere this surface is completely covered with closely set ranks of a third variety, the f Iiform papilkp, marshalled for the most part, especially behind, in lines nearly parallel on each side with the circum- vallate. The pharyngeal j>arf of the dorsum is occupied by mucous glands, and small lymphoid masses, struct- urally similar to the tonsils, and arranged in lines parallel with the circumvallate papillte. The Circumvallate (" walled-around ") Papillas (Fig. 707) vary in number from seven to twelve. The base of each is broad, its summit wider still. Its core is a prolongation of the corium of the mucous membrane, and many secondary (IfiO Dorsal surface of the tongue. (Testut.)661 THE TONGUE. papiUcv project from its top. A thick, stratified epithelium, similar to that of the skin, covers the papilla completely, the superficial layers giving no evidence of the existence of ])apil]£e beneath. Around the main papilla at a little distance is a circidar rampart, whose top is as high as that of the papilla, and its structure identical with tiiat of the latter. Occupying the entire thickness of the epithe- lium of the lateral surface of the papilla is a multitude of fiask-shaped bodies, called fasfe-buds (Fig. 708). They are composed of two kinds of epithelial cells, gustatory and sustentacular, packed together closely. Fig. 707.—Circumvallate papilla in vertical section, showing arrangement of the taste-buds and nerves. (Testut.) A gustator]! cell is slender, except at its centre, which is bulged in every direction by a lai'ge nucleus. Its proximal end is often branched, and extends to the corium ; its distal extremity is surmounted by a stiff' cilium, which reaches almost to the surface. The sustentacular cells are fusiform, and are mostly situated in the peripheral parts of the taste-bud, though some of them are mingled with the gustatory. They furnish mechanical support to the C)ther cells, and form a firm casing to the bud. The stratified, flattened epithelium, which clothes the papilla, presents a perforation, called a gustatory pore, at the spot where the distal extremity of the taste-bud approaches the surface, and thus the hairs of the gustatory cells can be affected by the direct contact of sapid solutions. Taste-buds are found, also, in the wall surrounding the papilla, pre- senting their open ends toward the intervening ditch, as do those of the papilla itself. The Fungiform ("mushroom- shaped") Papilla (Fig. 709) are pediculated knobs, ujion the rounded upper surface of Avhich are many secorulary papilhr. In the fungiform are found many taste-buds. The Filiform (" thread-shaped ") Papillse (Fig. 709) are small, somewhat cylin- drical, and bear secondary papilla, upon which the epithelium is particularly dense, and drawn out into long, tapering threads. To all of the varieties of papillte nerves are supplied, entering through their bases, and sending filaments between the epithelial cells, but not establishing absolute continuity with them. The glossopharyngeal furnishes the hind third of the mucosa of the dorsum of the tongue, the lingual the remainder. Taste-buds are scattered over the dorsal surface independently of papillse, and are especially numerous in the posterior part. Fig. 708.—Taste-buds. (After Engleman.)662 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. Fig. 709.—Semidiagrammalic view of a i>iirti(m ol the iiiuoous membrane' of the tongue. Two fungiform papilla; are shown. On some of tlie tililorm papill* the epithelial prolongations stand erect, in one they are spread out, and in three they are folded in. (Testut.) Other Organs of Taste. Although the tongue is the principal organ of the sense of taste, it has not a monopoly of this peculiar endowment. Taste-buds are found in the mucosa of the back part of the hard palate, on the anterior surface of the soft palate, and to some extent in other parts of the pharynx.THE NOSE. Bv W. KEILLER. THE nofie is the organ of the sense of smell. It forms on the face a prominence partly honv, partly cartilaginous. Its root springs from the naso-frontal groove, except in the Grecian type, where the dorsum of the nose is in a straight line with the forehead. The mesial ridge is called the dorswin, of which the upper bony segment forms the bridge. It ends below in the tip, which is continuous with the horizontal free edge of the septum, called the colnmna nasi. The sides of the nose form an angle with the face, which increases as it descends (the naso- facial angle). The rounded, lateral boundary of the nostril is called the aJa. The Nasal Cavity consists of two fossa', separated from each other by a mesial septinn. They open anteriorly by the two nostrils or anterior nares, and posteriorly by the posterior nares or ehoana: (" funnels") into the u])per part of the pharynx. The anterior nares are guarded l)y hairs, vibrissce, which spring from their inner surface. Each expands into a smooth-walled, front chamber called the vestibule, the rest of the nasal cavity being divisilde into three channels called meatuses. The width of the nostrils bears in different races a very varying relation to its length measured vertically. The skin of the nose is fine and movable over the bony part, thick, adherent, and closely studded with large sebaceous glands over the tip and alte. Its vessels .CARTILAGE OF Fig. 710.—Septal cartilage of the nose, seen in sagittal section at the right of the middle line. (Testut.) are derived from the ophthalmic and focial, and, being terminal, readily indicate the state of circulation. The lymphatics drain into the sulimaxillarv nodes. The sensor}/ nerves are derived from the infratrochlear, nasal, and infraorbital branches of the fifth ; the motor nerves from the seventh. The muscles have been described among the muscles of the face.664 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. ACCESSORY CARTILAGES ( r The Nasal Cartilages. At least two-thirds of the facial portion of the nose, and one-third of its sep- tnm have a framework of cartilage. Beginning with the carfildf/c nj tlic septum (Fig. 710), the mesial plate is quadrilateral in form, comjileting the nasal septum. It articulates above with the nasal bones, behind with the vertical plate of the ethmoid, postero-inferiorly with the vomer, and nasal spine of the maxillae, and antero-inferiorly with the septal portion of both lower lateral cartilages. In the foetus, and occasionally in the adult, it sends a long limb or processus podc/-ior into the ethmo-vomerine suture. The upper lateral cartilages (Fig. 711) are two lateral Avings of the septal cartilage, which bend over to form part of the sides of the nose. They are triangular in shape, continuous with the septal cartilage in the middle line above, but separated from it below by a fissure, and articulate pt)Steriorly with the free margins of tlie nasal bone and nasal processes of the maxillfe, small islets of cartilage sometimes intervening (car- tilagines epactiles). Inferiorly they articu- late with the lower lateral cartilages. Each loirer lateral cartilage consists of two plates joined at an acute angle along the dorsum of the nose. The mesial plate is placed in apposition with its fellow to form the antero-inferior angle of the septum and part of the colnmna, a deep groove separating them in the middle line in front, while above they articulate with the cartilage of the septum. The lateral plate forms the lower part of the side of the nose, articulating above with the upper lateral car- tilage, and posteriorly with the superior max- illa, two or three separate cartilages {udiior or quadrate cartilages) being placed in the fibrous tissue which joins them. The lateral cartil- ages keep the anterior nares expanded. The ala contains no cartilage, but consists of skin and fibrous tissue only. Tough fibrous tissue fills in the interstices of this frame- work, and is continuous with periosteum and perichondrium. Two small strips of cartilage, not always separate from the septal cartilage, are interposed between the latter and the vomer. They enclose the organ of Jacobson, and are rela- tively large in the foetus and in animals in whom the organ of Jacobson is well developed. THE NASAL FOSS-S. The nasal fossce (Figs. 712, 713) have a very different appearance as seen with their mucous covering from that of their l)ony framework as described in the sec- tion on osteology. This difference is mainly due to the thickness of the mucous membrane, the complete closure of nervous or vascttlar foramina, and the narrow- ing of those openings which conduct to the air sinuses. The upper part of each fossa, which corresponds in extent to the superior turbinate, is narrowed above at the roof, expanded below. It is the only part of the fossa which possesses the olfactory function. Below this the walls are nearly parallel. The anterior part of the fossa is unljroken by irregularities, and forms an expanded vestibule, into which the anterior aperture or nostril leads. Behind this each fossa has three awning-like processes projecting from its outer Avail, formed by the turbinate Ijones, which, when covered with mucous membrane, nearly meet the septum. Thus three passages are formed. The wferior meatus is horizontal, lies along the floor half covered by the inferior turbinate, and extends from the vestilnile to the pharynx. The middle meatus is overhung by Fig. 711.—Front view of the .skeleton of the nose. The upper lateral cartilage is labelled "lateral cart.," the lower, "alar cart." (Testut.)665, THE NOSE. the middle turbinate, and is shorter and more oblique than the inferior ; and the superior meatus-, beneath the superior turbinate, is very short and oblique, and Fig. 712.—Coronal section of nasal fossee at tliu plane of the second molar tofith, seen frorn behind. (Hirsch- feld.) . ;i Fig. 713.—Sagittal section of face and neck, showing external wall of right nasal fossa. (Testut.) confined to the snpero-posterior angle of the fossa. Above the superior turbinate and between it and the sphenoid is an angular recess called the spheno-etJmoidal recess. i .r .r:^' . i ;. ^•, ■ :^666 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. Cavities Opening Into the Nasal Fossae (Fig. 714). Various passages open into the nasal fossie. Under cover of tlie anterior end of the inferior turbinate is tlie inferior opening of the nasal duct. It is guarded by a single or sometimes double fold of mucous membrane. In the Hoor of the nose, at the site of the nasopalatine canal, is a funnel-shaped tube of mucous mem- brane of varying depth called Stcnson'.s canal. It is the relic of the coninuuii- FiG. 714.—External wall of right nasal fnssa, parts of the turbinates having been cut away to show the orifices of the sinuses which open into the meatuses. (Testut.) cation between the nasal and buccal cavities, found in the early foetus and per- manent in some animals. Just above this there is sometimes seen on the nasal septum a dejiression leading into a minute canal, which runs backward for a sliort distance. This is the rudimentary organ of Jacohson. Under cover of the ante- rior extremity of the middle turbinate is a deep depression ; the hiatu^i semilunaris ("half-moon gap") which leads up to the infundibulurn and thus into the frontal sinuses. In the bottom of the hiatus semilunaris is the opening of the anterior eth- moidal cells, the ma.i'illari/ antrum communicating with the nose by the same aperture, or by a separate opening a little farther back. Above this is the orifice of the middle efhmoidcd cells. Into the superior meatus the posterior ethmoidal cells open by one or two apertures, and the sj)henoidal antrum communicates with the sp)heno-ethnoid(d recess. The Pituitary Membrane {Schneiderian) is the mucous lining of the nose. It is inseparably united with the periosteum and perichondrium over which it lies. In the nostril it is continuous with the skin. It is prolonged into the maxillary, frontal, ethmoidal, and sphenoidal sinuses. By the nasal duct and lachrymal oanaliculi it is continuous with the conjunctiva, and behind it joins the mucous nu'inbrane of the pharynx, and communicates by the Eustachian tube with the middle ear and mastoid cells. The thickness and vasculariti/ of the membrane and the character of its epi- thelium vary in diiferent situations. It is thickest and most vascular over the turbinates and septum, not so thick on the floor of the nose, and thin and pale in the sinuses. The character of the epithelium and the distribution of the nerves divide the nose into an upjjer, olfactory part, comprising the upper turbinate and667 THE NOSE. a corresponding area of tlie septum, and a lower, respiratory part, from the level of the lower border of the upper turbinate downward. The vestibule is lined with a continuation of the external skin, which presents a stratified, squamous epithelium, with hairs, sebaceous glands, and sweat-glands. The rest of the res])iratory area of the nose is covered with stratified, ciliated, columnar epi- thelium, with goblet cells, on a delicate basement membrane. The tmiica propria of the mucosa is com])osed of white fibrous tissue, rich in leucocytes, and tra- versed by a wide venous plexus, so that it resembles cavernous tissue. Compound, racemose glands open freely on the surface, and between them is much lymjihoid tissue, sometimes accumulated into nodules, and some plain muscular fibres. The various air-cavities (ethmoidal, frontal, etc.) are very sparingly supplied with glands, and in them the tunica propria is very thin. The mucosa of the olfactory area is yellowish brown in color. Its epithelium presents two kinds of cells, namely sustentacular and olfactory. The mdeidacular cells are columnar in form, possess no cilia, have their nuclei oval and arranged in a single I'ow near their embedded extremities, and end in branching processes, which fill the spaces between the expanded, nucleated ])ortions of the olfactory cells. The olfactory celln are thickly set between those just described. Each cell has an expanded portion in the middle enclosing a round nucleus, and from this two processes project. A thicker rod-like process extends forward toward the surface between the sustentacular cells, ending in the frog in a tuft of fine hairs, and described by some observers as possessing in man exceedingly short liair-like processes. From the proximal end of the nucleated expansion a fine varicose filament courses through the tunica proj)ria, and is continuous with a nerve-fibril, which joins the ])lexus formed by the olfactory nerve, and thus ends in arboriza- tions in the glomeruli of the olfactory bulb. The nuclei of the olfactory cells are situated at various dejiths, so that the zone of spherical nuclei is of considerable thickness. Beneath these and lying directly on a thin basement membrane some observers describe a layer of small polygonal cells. The suljmucous tissue is rich in veins, which here also give the mucous membrane almost a cavernous character ; and many tubular glands, either sim])le or only slightly branched, called the glands of Bowman, are embedded in the submucous tissue. Nerves.—The olfactory region is supplied by the olfactory nerve and by branches of the fifth ; the respiratory area by branches of the fifth only. The fifth nerve forms fine terminal ramifications among the epithelial cells. For the further descrijition of these nerves see the section on the peripheral nerves. The organ of Jacobson is an accessory olfactory organ, well develojied in the rabbit, guinea-pig, and some other mammals, but rudimentary in man. It lies, as already described, embedded in the cartilage of Jacobson on each side of the septal cartilage near the floor. In man sustentacular cells only are found, but no true olfactory cells. J^essels.—Branches of the internal maxillary, ophthalmic, and facial arteries supply the mucous membrane. The veins form so marked a plexus in the deeper parts of the mucosa as to cause it to resemble cavernous tissue. This is most pronounced over the lower turbinate, lower and hind part of the middle, and hind end of the upper turbinate, and the lower and hind part of the septum, and over the nasal duct. The lymphatics are very numerous. They join the lymph- spaces round the olfactory nerve, and thus communicate with the subdural and subarachnoid spacesi.THE EAR. By F. H. GERRISH. THE ear is the organ of the sense of hearing. In the animal in which it occurs in its simplest form it is merel^y a sac, lined with a sensitive membrane and filled with fiuid. Agitation of the medium in which the animal lives causes waves in the fluid of the sac, their striking npon the sensitive membrane pro- duces a thrill in the nerve, and this, being transmitted to the nerve-centre, is there interpreted as sound. Next higher in the scale is an ear, which, in addition to the elements above named, has minute stony bodies in its cavity. Tlie effect of these particles is to heighten the impression which the waves of fluid bearing them produce upon the sensitive nerve. The human ear is an extremely complicated organ, but the essential part of it is constructed on precisely the plan of this primitive ear. The organ consists of three portions, named respectively the internal ear, the middle car, and the external ear. Of these only the first, the internal ear, is of indispensable import- ance ; the others are mei'ely accessory to it. THE INTERNAL EAR OR LABYRINTH. The essential part of the internal ear is a sac, lined ivith a sensitive membrane, and filled with a fluid, in which are hard particles. The sac is so very intricate that it is called the labyrinth, and, to distinguish it from the bony cavity in which it is lodged, the adjective membranous is applied to it. The membranous labyrinth is situated in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It does not completely fill the excavation which it occupies, but between it and the surrounding bony wall there is a space, which is filled with a fluid, called perilymph ("the water around "). The Membranous Labyrinth (Figs. 715, 717). General Description.—Tlie membranous labyrinth is a closed bag of fantastic shape, consisting of several segments, which have received distinguishing names. At the middle of the series are two sacs, of which the larger and posterior is called the utricle, and the smaller and anterior, the saccule. From the utricle extend three long loops, the semicircular canals; from the saccule one long, coiled process, the canal of the cochlea ; and from each of the sacs a minute tube, which unites with its fellow, and thus completes the continuity of the labyrinthine cavity. The fluid which fills this unbroken series of chambers and tubes is called endolympli ("the water within"). The membranous labyrinth is lined throughout with epithelium, which is simple and flattened, except over the areas where the branches of the auditory nerve are distributed, and in these places it is especially modified. The Utricle.—The utricle is a sac of irregular shape. Upon that part of its inner surfiice to which a branch of the nerve of hearing is distrilnited is an area, called the macula acustica ("auditory spot"), in which the wall is thickened, and the epithelium peculiarly modified, being changed from flattened into neuro-epithe- lium. Some of the cells become conoidal and have upon their free ends each a strong, stiff hair; and others, longer than these and resting upon the basement 66STHE EAR. 669 HATfC CANAL Fig. 715.—Jlembranons labyrinth of the right car, viewed from the outer side. (Testut.) membrane, act as mechanical supports for the hair-cells. AnuMig the cells are twined many ultimate filaments of the auditory nerve. On the free surface of the macula is a plate of gelatinous material con- taining a vast number of crystals of carbonate of lime, called otoliths ("ear-stones"). These, being driven by the waves of endolymph forcibly against the projecting hairlets, produce a much more IH'ofound impression than would the waves, if their impact was not thus accentuated. The Semicircular Canals.— From the utricle the three semi- circular canals are given off. They are named from their position the superior, the posterior, and the ex- ierneil. The superior and posterior extend upward and backward, but the planes of their curves are nearly at right angles to one another ; the external passes horizontally outward. Each of these canals is dilated at one end into an nmpulla (" a wine-jug"). At the other end the superior and posterior unite before reaching the utricle, and enter it by a common opening. Thus, there are but five apertures in the utricle for the three semicircular canals. In each ampulla is a marked ridge, the septum trcmsversuvi, due to a thickening of the wall, and this is surmounted by the eristet amstica (" auditory crest"), made up of peculiar neuro-epithelial cells (Fig. 716). From the top of the uppermost of each of these cells projects a very long, rigid, hairlike process, the series of them spreading out widely like an opened fan, and reaching half-way or more to the opposite side of the ampulla. Below these hair-cells are sustentcieuletr cells, which support them on every side ; and between the cells of both kinds are fila- ments of the auditory nerve, which, though in contact with the cells, have no con- tinuity of tissue with them. The Saccule.—The saccule is much smaller than the utricle, and is situated farther forward and a little lower, but very close to it. It has a macula acustica, which is so like that of the utricle that it needs no separate description. A minute tube, the canalis ufrieulo-saccularis, is prolonged from the utricle, and a mate to it is given off from the saccule. The two unite and form the ductus endolymphaticus, a long tube, which ends in a bulbous expansion, the saccus endoh/mphaticus. Thus, though the utricle and saccule do not communicate directly, their cavities are connected by means of these ducts. From the saccule another tube gives a communication with the canal of the cochlea. The Canal of the Cochlea' (Fig. 718).—The canal of the cochlea (also called ' In describing the coclilea, it is a matter of convenience to ignore its actual attitude, and to speak as if its summit were upward, its ba.se downward ; and this plan, which is conventional, will be followed liere. Fig. 716.—Diagram of auditory oyiithelium, and the mode of termination of tlie nerves of the ampullae. (M. Schultze.)670 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. ductus cochlearis, and scala media, " the middle staircase ") is a tube which, if straightened, would measure nearly one inch and a half in length. It communi- cates with the saccule through a short, narrow tube, the caiialis reuniens ("the VESTIBULAR BRANCH OP AUDITORY NERVE Fig. 717.—Saccule, utricle, and semicircular canals, viewed from the mesial side, showing points of entrance of the auditory nerve. Tfestut.) reuniting canal "). In shape it is prismoid, blunt at each end, tapering from its beginning to its ape.x', and coiled into a spiral. Of its three sides the upper is flat, and is made by the thin nuymbrcaic of Reissner. Its outer wall is somewhat .COCHLEAR NERVE AND GANGLION Fig. 718.—Cochlea in transverse section. Observe especially the canal of the cochlea, which is a part of the membranous labyrinth. (Testut.) curved, with its concavity inward. The lower side is flat, and is composed mostly of a strong, fibrous sheet, called the basilar membrane, between which and the membrane of Reissner the angle is acute. Upon the basilar membrane areTHE EAR. 671 located the structures which give the canal of the cochlea its peculiar intex'est. In the main these are especially nifiditied epithelial cells, to which the principal part of the nerve of hearing is distril)uted. The greater portion of these cells Fig. 719.—Organ of Corti. Diagrammatic view of a small portion. (Testut.) constitute the organ of Corti (Fig. 719), and the parts of this around which the other elements are grouped are the rods of Corti. They are called inner rods and outer rods, according as they are nearer to or farther from the acute angle of the Fig. 7ju.—Distribution of the auditory nerve. Semidiagrammatic. (Testut.) tube. The bases of these cells are broad, and .securely f:i.stened to the basilar membrane; their shafts are slender, and their upper ends enlarged, that of the inner suggesting the proximal extremity of the ulna, that of the outer looking considerably like the head of a swan. The rods of each set constitute a continu- ous row from end to end of the canal. The two sets incline toward each otherTHE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. 672 and meet above, a tunnel thus being furmed, to whicli the name, canal of Corf), is given. Certain cells, called basil<ir, are attached to the liases of the rods on the side which presents toward the cavity, and seem to serve as buttresses to them. At the inner side of the inner rods is a row of short cells, from the upper <^nd of which project stiff cilia, and from these circumstances thev are called inner hair-cells (internal auditory cells), beneath which are roundish, proto^ilasmic cells. On the farther side of the outer rods are several rows of cells similar to the inner hair-cells, and called the outer hair-cells, these being supj)orted by the cells of JJeitcrs, which ai'e fusiform and send long processes upward between the hair-cells to the surface. Still farther toward tlie outer side are conoidal colls, the ficlls of i'lnndim, each row of which is of less height than that toward its inner side, until the level of the undifferentiated cells lining the cavity generally is reached. Similar, but less numerous, cells of Claudius are arranged next to the inner hair- cells. Over the outer hair-cells and some adjacent rows is spread a membranous network, the reticular lamina, through which the hairs protrude. At the inner side of the internal cells of Claudius is a groove, the sulcus spiralis, running ])arallel with the organ of Corti. From a line near the acute angle of the coch- lear canal starts a fold, at first thin, but soon enlarging into a thick pad, whicli stretches out over, and rests upon, the rods and hair-cells. It is called the tec- torial ("covering") meinhrane. Likeness has been suggested between this mem- brane and the gelatinous pads, loaded with otoliths, which cover the raaculie acusticte of the utricle and the saccule. Branches of the auditory nerve (Fig. 720) enter among the structures which compose the organ of Corti, some boing distributed to the inner hair-cells, while others end between the inner rods, and others still cross the canal of Corti and go to the outer hair-cells. Endolymph occupies the canal of the cocldea and also the canal of Corti and all of the spaces between the cells of the organ of Corti. The Osseous Labyrinth (Figs. 721, 722). The meml)ranous labyrinth is situated in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The part of tlie osseous tissue wliich immediately surrounds it is extremely SUPERIOR SEMICIRCULAR CANAL Fig. 721.—Osseous labyrinth, isolated and viewer! Fir,. 722.—Osseous labyrinth, isolated and from the outer side. (Testut.) viewed from the mesial side. (Testut.) dense, forming a rigid, protective shell for it. This is the osseous labyrinth. Its shape corresponds in the main to that of the complicated membranous labyrinth. But, although it is, as it were, a tunic for the latter, the fit is a very loo.se one. The membranous labyrinth in most parts occupies not more than a third, in places only a fifth, of the diameter of the cavity of the osseous labyrinth. The mem- branous, however, does not lie free in the cavity of the osseous, but at every part of its course is fastened to its containing case, usually as much as a quarter of its circumference being thus attached. Where the nerve-bundles enter the membranous labyrinth, it is always closely applied to the osseous. The osseous labvrinth is lined ivith periosteum, and where the membranous comes in contact with it, bands of fibrous tissue are added, and serve to confine it in place.673 THE EAR. Fibrous trabeculse cross from the membranous labyrinth to the opposite side of the osseous in various parts, and assist in the fixation. The free surface of the peri- osteum is covered with delicate, flattened cells, developed from fibrous-tissue corpuscles. The Vestibule.—The central portion of the osseous labyrinth is a chamber of sufiicient size to give lodgment to the utricle and saccule. It is called the vesti- bule. On its outer side is an opening, the fenestra ovalis ("oval window"), wliich looks into the middle ear; but it is always closed in the recent condition. A depression at the front part of the mesial wall, called the fovea hemispherica, lodges the saccule ; and another hollow, the fovea hemiellvptica, behind and above Fig. 723.—Constituent parts of the osseous cochlea—the modiolus, the coiled tube, the spiral lamina- isolated in the first three pictures, and combined in the fourth. Diagrammatic. (Testut.) the last, holds the upper part of the utricle. Between the two is a ridge, the crista vestibuli, which divides below, and encloses a little pit in which lies the lower extremity of the canal of the cochlea. Close to this is the opening of the aqueductus vestibuli, holding the ductus endolymphaticus. Behind are the five apertures of the three semicircular canals. The canals bear a close resemblance in shape and direction to those of the membranous labyrinth which they enclose. The scala vestibuli of the cochlea begins at a large opening in the front and lower part of the vestibule. The Bony Cochlea (Figs. 723, 724).—In front of the vestibule the osseous labyrinth presents the cochlea, which looks very like a coiled shell, as its name implies. Its base faces inward, forward, and upward, its apex in the opposite direction. It is in reality, as in appearance, a tube, gradually diminishing in size from base to apex, and twined nearly three times around a central, conical core, the modiolus. From the side of the tube nearer the modiolus a thin shelf of bone, the lamina spiralis, projects about half way across its lumen. 43" 674 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. Like other portions of the osseous hibyrinth the cochlea is lined with peri- osteum. Upon the upper surface of the bony, spiral lamina, however, the peri- osteum is greatly moditied, being much thickened, and ending above the free border of the lamina in a deeply grooved edge, the sulcus spiralis, already men- tioned. This pad of modified periosteum is the//m6«s (" border "). Along the free edge of the spiral lamina the basilar membrane of the canal of the cochlea is attached, and stretches straight across to the opposite wall, where the peri- osteum is very thick and projects to meet it, constituting the spiral liganieiif. The membrane of Rcissner is attached to the upper surface of the limbus. Thus it is seen that the lamina spiralis and the canal of the cochlea together divide tlie lumen of tiie bony cochlea into two unequal parts—one, the smaller, above, called the seala vestibuli, because it opens into the vestibule ; and the other, and larger one, below, called the seala tympani, because its lower end presents at the fenestra rotunda {" round window"), where it would be in continuity with the tympanum (the drum of the ear), were it not for the complete closure of this window. It is now clear why the canal of the cochlea, which is between the scalee vestibuli and tympani, is sometimes called the seala media. The scalse vestibuli and tympani have communication only by a small opening, the heUcotrema hole of the coil ") at the highest point, the cupola, of the cochlea. From the seala tympani near its large end a little canal, the aqueductus cochlece, gives passage to a little vein into the inferior petrosal sinus near the jugular fossa. The Auditory Nerve.—The base of the modiolus j)resents toward the internal auditory meatus, from which it receives a large part of the auditory nerve. The fibres of the nerve run in the modiolus to the attached edge of the spiral lamina, and then through this to its free edge, whence they are distributed to the organ of Corti, as previously detailed. The fibres destined for the lower turn of the spiral are at tiie outside of the bundle, those for the apex in the centre. Within the lamina the nerves pass thi'ough a mass of cells, constituting the spired ganglion. As has been already stated, the space between the membranous labyrinth and the osseous labyrinth is filled with perilymph. This space communicates through the sheath of the auditory nerve with the subdural and subarachnoid spaces, whose fluid is lym- phatic in character, like that of all serous membranes. Communication has also been shown to exist between the cavity of the membranous labyrinth and the subdural space by means of the saccus endolym- phaticus. THE MIDDLE EAR OR TYMPANUM. The middle ear (Figs. 725, 726) is situated at the outer side of the inner ear or labyrinth, and between the latter and the external ear. It is known as the tympeinum or drum, of the ear, and various features of its structure justify the name. Like the laljyrinth the tympanum is located in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It is a fore-and-aft cleft, deep, long, and narrow. Its roof is formed by a rather thin plate of bone, which separates its cavity from that of the cranium. Its external and internal walls present the greatest expanses of surface, and con- verge to its floor, which has hardly any width. The tympanum is lined Fig. 725.—Chain of ossicles and their liga ments. seen from the front in a vertical, trans verse section of the tympanum. (Testut)675 THE EAR. throughout with mucous membrane, which covers every object contained in the cavity. The outer wall is composed ahnost entirely of a broad, fibrous sheet, the mmi- hrana tympdni ("membrane of the drum"), and the rim of bone to which it is attached. The membraiia tympani has as its basis a firm layer of white fibrous tissue. On its inner side is a lining of mucosa, and on its outer a coat of skin. The membrane is moderately tight everywhere except at the very top, where there is a small area, which is comparatively fiaccid. The membrane is not flat, but its centre presents a prominence upon the mesial side. It slopes markedly from above downward and inward. The inner wall of the tympanum has a very uneven surface. The most marked prominence is the tuber cochlece, produced by the protrusion of the first turn of the cochlea. Below this is a round hole, the fenestra rotunda, closed by a fibrous membrane, but for which communication would be established between the tympanum and the scala tympani. The membi'ane is called the secovrlary membrane of the tympanum—the second head to the drum. At a little higher level than the tuber is the fenestra ovalis, also stopped with a fibrous membrane, to which is attached an ossicle, presently to be described. Aliove this oval win- dow is a ridge, which shows the situation of the aqueduct of Fallopius, in which is the facial nerve. At the rear and upper part the tympanum communicates through a large hole with a series of irregular and connected cavities in the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, the most considerable and the nearest of these being the mastoid AQUEDUCT OF FALLOPIUS Fig. 726.—Coronal section of the riKlit temporal bone, passing through the Eustachian tube and the mid- dle of the tympanum. Both surfaces of the section are shown, the parts being hinged on the line xx. (Testut.) antrmn, the others being the mastoid, cells. Tliese cavities are all lined with mucous membrane, continued into them from the tympanum. Lower down on the hind surface is a prominence of bone, called from its shajie the pi/ironid, from the apex of which projects the tendon of the stapedius muscle. Iih front and below, the tympiinum slojjes into a long channel, the Eustachian tube, the distal end of which opens into tlie pharynx. Through this tube air is admitted to and expelled from the middle ear, and thus atmospheric pressure oni the inner and outer sides of the membrana tympani is equalized. The tube doesTHE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. 676 the service to the tympanum that is rendered by the hole in the side of the kind of drum which is accounted a musical instrument. The Eustachian tube {tuba auditlva) (Fig. 727) is about an inch and a half long. It extends downward, forward, and inward, and its lower end presents a Fig. 727.—Eustachian tube, laid open by a cut in its long axis. (Testut.) projecting margin on the lateral wall of the pharynx, close by the inferior meatus of the nose. Its upper part is bony, its lower is cartilaginous. It is lined with mucous membrane. Above and parallel with the Eustachian tube is a bony canal, lodging the tensor tympani muscle, whose tendon ])roiects into the tymjxanic cavity. The Ossicles (Fig. 725).—Extending across the tympanum from side to side is a chain of three little bones, the ossicula. auditus ("ossicles of hearing"). From without inward they are the malleus, the incus, and the stapes. The malleus is attached to the membrana tympani, the stapes to the membrane of the fenestra ovalis, and the incus is between and connects the others, with each of which it has a movable articulation. The malleus (" hammer") has a roundish head, which is upward, a constricted ncch, and a long tapering handle {manubrium), which extends downward and a little backward. A lonfj procefss runs downward and forward from below the neck to tlie Glaserian fissure; and a short process passes outward to the mem- brana tympani. The incus ("anvil") presents a body, upon the anterior surface of which is an articular area by which it is jointed to the malleus ; a shoii process, which runs to the posterior wall near the opening of the mastoid antrum ; and a conical, long process, which extends at first downward and at last mesially, ending in a knob, the orbicuhtr j^rocess, which articulates with the stapes. The stapes (" stirrup ") Ijears a remarkable resemblance to the object from which it is named. Its base, the foot-piece, is broad and very nearly fills the fenestra ovalis, to whose membrane it is attached. The side-pieces, ci-ura, con- verge to the neck, beyond which is the head, cupped on its outer surface, and articulating with the orbicular process of the incus. Besides the attachment of the malleus to the membrana tympani and that ofTHE EAR. 677 the stapes to the membrane of the fenestra ovalis, ligaments running to ditierent parts of the bony walls serve to hold the ossicles in place. Muscles of tlie Tympanum.—Two muscles are connected with the series of ossicles, the tensor tympani and the stapedius. The tensor tympani (" tightener of the drum") (Fig. 727) is principally situ- ated in the canal above the Eustachian tube. Its tendon bends outward on escaping from the canal, and is inserted into the handle of the malleus near-the neck. Contraction of the muscle pulls the membrane of the drum inward, and thus tightens it. The stapedius arises in the cavity of the pyramid, from the apex of which its tendon passes forward into the tympanic cavity, and is inserted into the neck of the stapes. This muscle rocks the base of the stapes in the fenestra ovalis, and thus causes pressure upon the perilymph of the labyrinth. The mucous membrane of the tympanum 2:)rojects from the roof into the cavity in several folds, which are very variable in nunil)er, form, and size. The epi- thelium of the mucosa is partly columnar and ciliated, and for the rest flattened and not ciliated. Just below the jjyramid the chorda tympani nerve enters the middle ear, and runs forward across the handle of the malleus to its aperture of exit near the Glaserian fissure. Like the other intratympanic structures it is invested with mucosa. THE EXTERNAL EAR. The external ear comprises (1) the external auditory meatus, the tube leading from the outer wall of the tympanum to the surface of the head, and (2) the auricle or pinna, the flaring body, which projects from the side of the head. The External Auditory Meatus (Fig. 728) is about an inch long. It is of .FENESTRA OVALIS CLOSED BY STAPES Fig. 728.—Vertical section through the external auditory meatus and tympanum, passing in front of the fenestra ovalis. (Testut.) greatest diameter near its outer end, and of least near its middle part. Its direc- tion varies in different portions. As it is traced inward, it goes at first forward and upward, then backward, and finally forward and downward; but its domi- nant trend is inward and forward. The tube rises toward the middle of its course.THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. G78 and beyond this it descends. Its floor is longer than its roof on account of the obliquity of the position of the raembrana tympani. The mesial portion has a basis of bone, its peripheral, one of yellow jibro- cariilage, pieced out with fibrous tissue. The flexibility of the latter portion renders it practicable to make the meatus nearly straight by i^ulling the pinna (with which it is continuous) upward and backward. The meatus is lined throughout with skin. In the cartilaginous part and the adjacent portion of the osseous there is a great number of glands, which struct- urally are identical with ordinary sweat-glands, only larger; but, instead of secreting perspiration, they form cerumen, commonly called "ear-wax"—asubstauce thought to be offensive to insects, and, conse- quently, a defence against their intrusion. The glands are called cerummous. Near the outer end of the tube are many short hairs and seba- ceous glands. The skin which clothes the mem- brana tympani is very delicate, and is free from hairs and glands. The Pinna (Fig. 729) is of irregularly oval shape, and is an abrupt expansion of the meatus. Its central portion is shell-like in form, and hence is called the concha. Beginning near the middle of the concha is a ridge, which runs forward and upward to the front margin of the ])inna, Avhence it continues around nearly to its lowest part, forming a prominent rim, called the /(e//.r (" coil "). The rim of the concha itself begins at its front and lower part in a prominent tubercle, the antitragus (" opposite the tragus "), and runs backward, then ujiward, and lastly forward, dividing at the junction of its hind and upper parts into two branches, which enclose a triangular hollow. This margin of the concha is the antihelix ("opposite the helix"), and the area embraced by its division is the fossa of the antihelix. Between the antihelix and the helix is the fossa of the helix, overlapped by the incurved lip of the helix. In front, between the origins of the helix and antihelix, is a backward projecting plate, which covers the orifice of the meatus at a little distance, and is called the tragus. The lowest portion of the pinna is a flat, soft, pendulous body, the lobule. All portions of the pinna, except the lobule, are composed almost entirely of yellow fibro-cartilage, which is continuous with that in the peripheral part of the meatus, and clothed with sldn. Except upon the convexity of the helix, the skin is very thin and closely adherent to the cartilage. The lobule has no carti- lage, and is merely a bag of skin, containing areolar and adijjose tissues. The pinna is attached to the cranium by ligaments which run forward to the root of the zygoma and backward to the mastoid process. The shape of the jnnna is practically the same all through life, changing less than that of any other feature ; and, as no two ears are exactly alike, the recog- nition of this maintenance of the characteristic peculiarities of each individual ear has established what is probably the surest method of physical identification. Muscles.—Half a dozen muscles, called intrinsic, connect diflTerent parts of the ])inna with one another. But, as they are all rudimentary in man, are, indeed, often impossible of demonstration, and never of any practical importance, they will receive no further attention. There are three extrinsic muscles (Fig. 407) which require mention, though almost always imperfectly developed and incapable of action. Occasionally, however, there is an individual, Avho possesses in a measure the ancestral capacity of moving his ears voluntarily. The attollens aurem (" lifting the ear") or auricularis superior, the largest of the trio, arises from the lower border of the epicranial fascia, narrows as it679 THE EAR. descends, and is inserted into the mesial surface of the lielix and the prominence, ■\vhich is Cdllocated with the fossa of the antilielix. Tlie attrahens aurem (" drawing the ear toward," /. c, foi-ward) or awricularis anterior, the smallest of the group, arises from the ejiicranial fascia below the front part of the preceding muscle, passes backward, and is inserted into the fore part of the helix. The retrahens aurem ("drawing back the ear") or avricuho-h jw^ierior, arises from the mastoid ])r()cess of the temporal bone, passes forward, and is inserted into the back of the conclia. The arteries of the pinna are the jiosterior auricular and the superficial tem- poral. The nerves are the great auricular, ]K)Sterior auricular of the facial, the auriculo-temporal of the fifth, and the small occipital.THE EYE. By W. KEILLER. THE eyeball, which is the essential organ of the sense of sight, is a somewhat spherical body, occupying the cavity of the orbit, where it lies embedded in a mass of fat and loose connective tissue. From the j^osterior two-thirds of the surface of the eye this bed is walled oil' by a membrane known as the capsule of Tenon (Fig. 730) between which and the globe of the eye there is a lymph-space Fig. 7S0.—The right eye in sagittal section, showing the capsule of Tenon. Semidiagrammatic. (Testut.) occupied by very loose areolar tissue, the whole forming a pliable socket, within which the eye rotates with the utmost freedom. The anterior third is covered by the conjunctiva, a mucous membrane reflected onto the globe from the deep aspect of both eyelids. The surface of the globe is pierced by numerous vessels and nerves, and gives attachment at certain points to the muscles, by which the movements of the eyeball are accomplislied. A lateral view of the eye on the living suliject reveals tlie fact that its sur- face is not all uniformly curved. In such a view the anterior, clear portion, known as the cornea, will be seen to bulge out appreciably beyond the normal curve of the posterior, white, or sclerotic portion. It thus appears that the eye- 6S0681 THE EYE. ball is not strictly a sphere, but is composed of segments of two unequal spheres, an anterior, smaller segment (of a smaller sphere), forming about one-sixth of the whole, superposed upon a posterior, larger segment (of a larger sphere), forming the remaining five-sixths. For descriptive purposes certain points and lines in relation to the eyeball must be defined. The anterior pole is the centre of the front surface of the cornea ; the posterior pole is the centre of the back surface of the sclerotic ; a straight, line joining these poles is the sagittal axis. The equator of the eyeball is a line around its surface equally distant at all points from the two poles ; its plane divides the globe into anterior and posterior hemispheres. The inner side of the eye is appropriately termed the nasal side; the outer, the temporal. To prevent misconception, it is necessary to say here that, even if its seg- mented formation be disregarded, the eyeball is still not a perfect s])here. The transverse diameter (about one inch) is the greatest, the antero-posterior slightly less, and the vertical the least. It may be added that, in an antero-posterior, vertical section of the eyeball, passing through the sagittal axis, the inner or nasal division will be slightly smaller than the outer or temporal. Anatomically considered, the eye may be regarded as a hollow sphere (Fig. 731), whose wall is composed of three tunics and whose cavity is filled by three refracting media. The three tunics are (1) an outer, _^6roMS tunic, consisting of Fig. 731.—The right eye in horizontal section, showing the upper surface of the lower segment. Dia- grammatic. (Testut.) sclerotic and cornea ; (2) a middle, rascnlar tunic, comprising choroid, ciliary zone, and iris ; (3) an inner, nervous tunic, the retina. The three refracting media are the aqueous humor in front, the vitreous humor behind, and the lens between the two others. Each of these will be considered in turn.682 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. THE EXTERNAL OR FIBROUS TUNIC. The two parts of the outer, til)rous tunic, tliough continuous in structure, (liiFer much in appearance, the cornea in fr(nit being perfectly clear and trans- parent, and the sclerotic behind, white and opaque. Both are dense and tirni, and serve to preserve the form of the eyeball. At their junction all around is a wide, shallow depression, the scleral sulcus. The Sclerotic. The posterior surface of the sclerotic is pierced by the optic nerve, an eighth of an inch internal to the posterior pole. Here the dural sheath of the nerve blends Avith the sclerotic, and the nerve fil;)res, in many small bundles, enter through distinct minute pores. The part of the sclerotic thus perforated is called the lataina cribrosa ("sieve-like layer"). Around the optic nei've-entrance, and more or less adjacent to it, the sclerotic is pierced by the ciliary nerves, and the long and short posterior ciliary arteries ; while, farther toward the equator, four or five apertures transmit the large veins called from their mode of formation the vence vorticosce (Fig. 732). A little way (yV inch) behind the corneo-scleral junc- tion the sclerotic is pierced by the anterior ciliary arteries. Somewhat anterior to the equator it gives attachment to the four recti muscles, the two obliqui being attached behind. On the deep surface of the sclerotic, between it and the choroid, there is a layer of loose, pigmented connective tissue, the lamina fusca ("brown layer"), which imparts to its inner surface a dingy, brownish hue. This tissue really occupies a lymph-space between the two tunics. Thus the sclerotic has a lymph- space on each side of it, and the surface that looks toward each space is covered by epithelium. The sclerotic consists of bundles of connective tissue, containing elastic fibres, and having connective-tissue corjiuscles lodged in cell spaces. The tissue is dis- posed in laminje, in some of which the fibers run longitudinally and in others transversely. The laminfe are not separable owing to a frequent interchange of fibres. The scant blood-supply of the sclerotic is derived from the short ciliary and the anterior ciliary arteries, and its more scant nerve-supply, from the ciliary nerves. The Cornea. The cornea, devoid of blood-vessels and perfectly transparent, is the window which admits light to the interior of the eye. It is set in the sclerotic in much the same way as a watchglass is set in its frame. Here the resemblance ends, however, for the sclerotic and cornea are perfectly continuous. Viewed from behind, the cornea is perfectly circular, but a front view shows its transverse slisjhtlv greater than its vertical measurement. This is due to the sclei'otic's over- lapping it more above and below than laterally. The cornea is always more curved than the sclerotic, but its curvature varies in different individuals and at different ])eriods of life, being greatest in youth and diminished in old age. Its outer surface is covered by conjunctival epithelium of the stratified flattened variety, several cells deep. Its posterior surface is lined by a firm, elastic, homogeneous membrane, the membrane of Descemet, structurally distinct from its own proper substance. Shreds of this membrane strij)])ed otf of the cornea tend to curl up with the attached surface inward. Around the mai'gin of the cornea the memljrane of Descemet becomes fibrillar, and breaks up into bundles, some of which attach themselves to the sclerotic and choroid, while otliers bridge over the irido-corneal angle, and attach themselves to the front of the iris. These latter constitute the ligamenfum pectinaium iridis ("the combed ligament of the iris") or pillars of the iris. The sponge-like formation, produced around its border683 THE EYE. by the breaking up of the membrane of Descemet, contains a numljer of minute spaces, the, spaces of Fontanel, which communicate with the aqueous chamber on the one hand, and, on the other, with a minute venous sinus contained in a canal in the sclerotic, which encircles the margin of the cornea. This is the canal of JSchlemm. The subsfeintiei propria of the cornea is composed of many su])erposcd layers of connective tissue, tlie fibres of contiguous layers having ditferent directions, and all being insejiaraljly held together, as in the sclerotic, by many interclianges of fibres. Between the layers, and even between the bundles and fibrils of which they are composed, there is an interstitial cement substance, in which are found lymph-spaces, occupied, but not filled, by the corneal corpuscles, and all directly or indirectly communicating so as to provide for a very complete lymph-vascular circulation. Unlike the sclerotic, tlie cornea is richly supplied with nerves, which are derived from the ciliary. They first form a ])lexus around its margin; then, losing their medullary sheath, they form another plexus in the laminated struct- ure ; from this bi'anches proceed to form a third plexus on the corneal surface beneath the conjunctival epithelium ; finally, fibrils pass in among the epithelial cells, and reach their terminal distribution almost at the free surface of the con- junctiva. THE MIDDLE OR VASCULAR TUNIC. In the vascular tunic, or uveal tract, of the eye (Fig. 732) three parts may be distinguished : the choroid behind, the iris in front, and the ciliary zone, or body, ¥ORTICOSA POSTERIOR CILIARY ARTERY CILIARY ARTERIES Fig. 732.—Vessels and nerves of the choroid and iris, seen from above. The sclerotic and cornea have been largely removed. (Testut.) between. The choroid and ciliary zone are a]iplied to the inner surface of the sclerotic ; but, except at the optic nerve entrance and the attachment of the ciliary684 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. muscle to the sclerotic, the adhesion between them is very loose, a lympli-sjiace, as already stated, being left between them. The iris, attached only at its circum- ference, hangs vertically in the aqueous humor about yV i'^*^'^^ behind the cornea, its pupillary margin resting lightly against the lens. The choroid is pierced behind by the optic nerve. On its outer surface the ciliary nerves, about fifteen in number, and the two long posterior ciliary arteries, after piercing the sclerotic, run forward to the iris. The Choroid. The choroid is a dark brown structure, whose stroma consists of blood-vessels, held together by delicate connective tissue, containing pigmented cells. The stroma is limited on both surfaces by non-vascular membranes, the pigmented memhrana suprachoroidea on the outside, and the unpigmented vitreous lamina on the inside. The vessels of the stroma exhibit two well-marked layers, a super- ficial venous layer foi'med of the vasa vorticosa, and a deep, closely-packed, capil- lary layer, the chorio-capillaris. Between these layers the short ciliary arteries run forward, giving off as they go the vessels of the chorio-capillaris and terminating in tliose of the ciliary processes. The Ciliary Zone. The ciliary zone or eiliarij body differs from the choroid, not so much in the composition of its vascular stroma, as in the fact that it contains a deposit of muscle-tissue, the ciliary muscle (Fig. 733), and presents on its deep surface a Fig. 733.—Meridian section of tne eye m the region of the ciliary muscle. (Testut.)THE EYE. 685 series of radial thickenings or ridges, the cUiary pi-ocesses (Fig. 735), about seventy in number, which, rising gradually from the anterior limit of the choroid, reach their greatest elevation a little behind the corneo-scleral junction, where they terminate abruptly in a series of ])r()minences, the corona ci/iaris. Superficial to these lies the ciliary muscle, containing botli radiating and circular fibres. The former arise from the deep surface of tlie sclerotic near the cornea, where they are attached to the bundles of the membrane of Descemet already referred to. Extending backward they are inserted into the outer surface of the ciliary body and choroid. The circular fibres are ])laced on the deep surface of the radiating portion, and form a muscular ring around the circumfei'ence of the iris. When the ciliary muscle contracts, it draws forward the choroid and ciliary body, thus relaxing the suspensory ligament, which allows the lens to become more convex for near accommodation. The Iris (Figs. 734, 735). The iris is the colored membrane, which hangs like a screen in the aqueous chamber behind the cornea. In its centre is the aperture called the pupU, which, through the contractile power of the iris, varies in size and is thus adapted to regulate the amount of light admitted to the retina. At its circumference the iris is continuous with the ciliary body, and, through the ligamentum pectinatum iridis, with the cornea also. Faint, wavy lines on its anterior surface, converging ANTERIOR CILIARY ARTERIES ANTERIOR CILIARY ARTERIES Fig. 734.—Iris, front view. (Testut.) toward the pupil, mark the situation of subjacent blood-vessels. Its posterior surface is covered by a layer of dark ])igmented e])ithelium, which belongs morphologically to the retina. Its stroma is formed of delicate connective tissue, containing a variable mnnber of pigmented cells, and carrying numerous vessels and nerves. The color of the iris depends partly on the ])igment cells of the stroma, and partly on the retinal layer behind. When the jjigment is abundant in the stromal cells, it controls the color,—some shade of gray, broAvn, or black ; but when it is scanty or absent, that of the retinal cells behind showing through the stroma imparts to the iris one of the various shades of blue.THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. 686 RADIATING VESSELS OF IRIS Near the pupillary border of the iris there lies embedded in the .stroma a cir- cular band of smootli muscle-fibres, the sphincter iridis, whose action contracts the pupil. On the deep surface of the sphinc- ter is a membrane formed of straight fibres, stretching from the circumference of the iris to the sphincter. Whether these are muscle- fibres or merely elastic is still unsettled, l>ut the view prevails that they cause dilatation of the pupil. Vessels and Nerves of the Iris.—The two long cUiary arteries run forward along the outer and inner aspects of the globe, between the sclerotic and choroid, to the attached border of the iris. Here each divides into a superior and an inferior branch, which, by anas- tomosing with one another and with the an- terior ciliary arteries (from the muscular branches of the ophthalmic), form a vascular ring in this situation, the circulus major iridis. From this branches are given off, which con- verge toward the pupil, where, by dividing and anastomosiug, they form the circulus minor iridis. The arrangement of the veins corresponds to that of the arteries. They communicate with the sinus in the canal of Schlemm. The ciliary nerves, after furnishing a gang- liated plexus to the vessels of the choroid, enter the ciliary muscle, where they form another plexus. From this latter filaments pass into the iris, where they follow the course of the blood-vessels, finally ending in the sphincter iridis. PROCESS Fig. T.i.i —x'lnncnt i.l tin- ins. ciliary body, and I'lmruid. view Iruiii the internal surluce. (Testut.) THE INNER OR NERVOUS TUNIC. The Retina (Fig. 736) constitutes the innermost coat of the ocular wall. It is everywhere in clo.se contact with the uveal tunic. Developmeutally it is laid TEMPORAL SIDE UPPER TEMPORAL BRANCH OF ART. CENTR. RET. SCLEROTIC CHOROID . ..RETINA UPPER NASAL BRANCH OF ART. CENTR, RET. NASAL SIDE Fig. 73fi.—Retinft of the right eye, front view, opticus at the right of it. (Testut.) Tlie macula lutea is seen in the middle, and the porusTHE EYE. 687 down in two strata, an outer pigmented stratum, wliich lines the inner surface of the middle coat, and an inner stratum, which differs in diiferent parts. Beneath the choroid is the retina propir, the part directly engaged in vision. It reaches from the optic entrance to the outer or posterior limit of the ciliary zone, where it terminates in an indented border, the ora serrata. Beyond this the inner stratum exists as a single layer of unpigmented, columnar epithelium, with no admixture of nerve-fibres, and is called the pars ciliaiis retina;. It reaches to and over the tips of the ciliary processes, whence it is continued as a pigmented layer, paj's iridica. retina, to the pupillary border of thi' iris. Here it doubles outward upon itself and becomes continuous with the outer pigmentary stratum. Thus there is on the hind surface of the iris a double layer of pig- mented epithelium, belonging developmentally to the retina. The inner surface of the retina proper rests upon the vitreous body. In its centre, and hence in the axis of the eyeball, is the macula lutea or yellow spwt, the point of acutest vision. The fovea centralis is the name given to a dimple or depression in the middle of the macula lutea. About ^ inch to the nasal side of the yellow spot is the pale disc of the porus opticus {" oiAic passage"). Here the optic nerve appears through the retina, and spreads out to form its innermost layer. From the centre of the porus opticus the arteria^ centralis retinxe emerges, dividing into an upper and a lower brauch. These again divide and subdivide dichotomously giving oifsets to the I'ctina till they reach the ora serrata. Their ramifications anastomose neither Avith one another nor with any other vessels. The corresponding veins converge toward the porus opticus, where they enter the optic nerve in two divisions, which soon unite. Retiual vessels are absent near the macula lutea. All these objects, but not the retina itself, are visible in an ophthalmoscopic view of the fundus of the eye. The veins apjiear darker and larger than the arteries. The general, red reflex which pervades the interior comes from the vessels of the chorio-capillaris. The retina is a very complex membrane, consisting of several layers of nerve- cells, and specialized nerve-epithelium, all held together by susteutacular fibres (of Miiller), which pass vertically through the layers from the inner almost to the outer surface. The limits of this book ])reclude a detailed account of the structure of this interesting organ, but some idea of its comj^lexity may be gathered from Fig. 737. What is definitely known and what may usefully be introduced here are embraced in the following statements : 1. The layer of rods and cones and the overlying pigmented cells are the only parts molccularly affected by light. 2. Except between the nerve-fibres of the innermost layer and the nerve- cells of the adjacent layer, there is no direct anatomical continuity between the elements of the different strata. An appjarent exception occurs in the case of the outer nuclear layer; but it is only apparent, for here the granules are not separate elements, but swellings on the axis-cylinder processes of the rods and cones. 3. The retina with the optic nerve may practically be regarded as a nerve chain of three links establishing connection between the rods and cones (the special sensory cells of the retina) and the brain cells, from which the fibres of the optic nerve come off. These links are— (1) The rods and cones with their axis-cylinders (including the outer gran- ules). (2) The bipolar cells of the inner nuclear layer with their axis-cylinders. (3) The ganglionic nerve-cells and the optic nerve-fibres which, as before intimated, are in direct anatomical continuity. 4. The two molecular layers mark the situations at which connections are made between these nerve links. Thus, in the outer molecular layer the axis- cylinders of the rods and cones connect by arborization and interlacement with688 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. 2)rocesses from the cells of the inner nuclear layer. In the inner molecular layer the processes from the opposite ends of the same cells connect similarly with those from the ganglionic cells. These being in direct continuity with the fibres of the optic nerve, ai'e thus connected with cells of the visual centres in the brain. 5. The internal and external limiting membranes mark the inner and outer limits of the sustentaeular fibres. They are not separate or independent struct- ures, and the external, at least, is more imaginary than real as a membrane. The internal membrane is formed by contact of the expanded bases of the fibres of Miiller. 6. All the layers become extremely thin over the fovea centralis, both the CHOROID NEURO- VITREOUS Fio. 737.—Section of retina, showing its layers. The fibres of Miiller are in red. Diagrammatic. (Schultze.) layer of nerve-fibres on the inside and the rods on the outside being completely wanting. Around the border of the fovea they rapidly thicken, however, and over the rest of the macula lutea are thicker than anywhere else in the retina. At the ora serrata all the layers disappear abruptly, and only the layer of colum- nar epithelium before referred to takes their place in the pai's ciliaris retinje.THE EYE. 689 THE MEDIA. As already stated, tlie vitreous body, the lens, and the aqueous humor com- pletely till the cavity of the eyeball. The aqueous is perfectly fluid, the vitreous semi-fluid, and the lens solid. All are transparent and colorless. THE VITREOUS. The vitreous ("glassy"), also called "vitreous humor" and "vitreous body" (Fig. 731), fills the posterior four-fifths of the globe. It is enclosed in a thin, hyaloid membrane, which has some attachment to the retina at the porus opticus, and furnishes a suspensory ligament to the lens. Elsewhere it is perfectly separable from its surroundings. Through the centre of the vitreous body a canal, lined by a tube of the hyaloid membrane, runs from the porus opticus to the back of the lens, where it ends blindly. It marks the course of a vessel, which, in the f(jetus, passed from the central artery of the retina to the capsule of the lens. It is known as the cetnal of ^fiUing. Beyond the ora serrata the sur- face of the vitreous body is grooved by the ciliary processes, while, anteriorly, it presents a deep concavity, the fosm patellari^, for the posterior convexity of the lens. Subjacent to the ciliary zone the hyaloid becomes thick and fibrous, and adheres closely to the pars ciliaris retinte. Here it splits, giving off from its under surface the true hyaloid, which is continued over the fossa patellaris, while the outer fibrous portion, the zonula of Zinii, stretches inward and forward as a distinct membrane to gain attachment to the capsule of the lens a little in front of its equator. Some scattered bundles from the zonula are attached at the equator and some on the posterior surface also. The free portion of the zonula between the ciliary processes and the lens-capsule constitutes the sufipeiif<ory lir/a- ment of the lens. A space around the circumference of the lens, bounded by the suspensory ligament in front and by the vitreous (covered by hyaloid) behind, is the canal of Petit. It is filled with fluid, which may reach it from the aqueous chamber through extremely fine clefts, which have been demonstrated in the suspensory ligament. THE LENS. The lens (Fig. 731) is a biconvex body occupying the fossa patellaris in front of the vitreous. Its anterior surface looks toward the aqueous chamber, and is in light contact Avith the pupillary margin of the iris. The circumference or equator all round looks toward the ciliary processes. In this position the lens is safely anchored by the suspensory ligament already described. The posterior surface is considerably more curved than the anterior, and the curvature of each varies with the period of life. In the fcetus, the lens is almost spherical; in the adult, of medium convexity ; and in the aged, considerably flattened. Besides this the curvature is constantly changing for near or distant accommodation. The lens is inclosed in a structureless, elastic, non-vascular, capsule, which is much thicker in front than behind. When ru]>tured (»r cut through, this mem- brane shows a tendency to curl outward away from the lens. The lenticular sub- stance immediately beneath the capsule is soft and gelatinous, but deeper it becomes hard and firm. The central hard core is sometimes called the nucleus of the lens, while the outer soft part is known as the cortex. THE AQUEOUS. The afpieous humor is a M'atery fluid, occupying the space which is bounded by the cornea in front and by the lens, suspensory ligament and ciliary body behind. This space is known as the aqueous chamber (Fig. 731). The iris partially divides 44690 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SEJSSES. it into an anterior and a posterior chamber, whicli, however, are continuous tlu'ough the pupil. The aqueous humor is tliought to be secreted in the jiosterior chamber, Avhence it finds its way through the pu])il into the anterior cliamber. From tliis it is drained away tlirough tlie spaces of Fontana into the canal of Schlemm. Although the vitreous, the aqueous, and the lens ai'e commonly spoken of as the " refracting media " of the eye, it should be understood that of the three the lens alone has any considerable eft'ect in changing the direction of the rays of light, which enter the eye, and furthermore, that the cornea, often referred to as if it had an indifferent influence in this regard, is really very powerfully refrac- tive. THE MUSCLES OF THE EYEBALL. There are seven muscles (Fig. 738) in the cavity of the orbit, but only six are attached to the eyeball. These are arranged in three opposing pairs, viz., the mpe- rior and inferior redi, the internal and external recti, and the superior and inferior obliqui. All except the inferior oblique arise from the immediate vicinity of the optic foramen, either from the bone-surface or from an aponeurotic ring, the ligd- ment of Zinn, which is attached around the uj^per, inner, and lower edges of the foramen, and In'idges over the sphenoidal fissure. The external rectus is attached to this latter part, as well as to the bones on each side of the fissure. Hence the FiG.738—Muscles of right eye, viewed from above. (Testut.) two heads, from which it is said to arise, are really continuous. The superior rectus has some attachment to bone above the foramen and to the sheath of the optic nerve, as well as to the a]ioneurotic ring referred to. The sujierior oblique arises wholly from bone beyond the ring and above the inner edge of the foramen. Diverging as they come forward, the four recti go straight to their insertions into the sclerotic in front of the equator, and on the aspects of the eyeball cor- responding to their names. The superior oblique courses upward, inward, and forward to the supero-internal angle of the orbit, where it passes through a fibro-THE EYE. 691 cartilaginous loop or pulley, attached to the orbital surface of the internal angular process of the frontal bone. It then bends back at an acute angle, and passes downward, backward, and outward beneath the superior rectus to its insertion in the sclerotic behind the equator, between the superior and external recti. The inferior oblique arises from the orbital plate of the superior maxilla just outside the lower end of the lachrymal groove, whence it passes backward and outward Ijeneath the inferior rectus (i. <?., between it and the or1)ital flf)or); t^ien, turning slightly upward, it reaches its insertion into the sclerotic between the optic entrance and the attachment of the external rectus. Action.—These muscles rotate the eye in different directions, but without changing its position in the orbit. Onntting refinements for the present, it may be stated that the superior and inferior recti rotate the eyeball on a transverse axis, thus raising and depressing the cornea ; the internal and external recti rotate it on a vertical axis, thus turning the cornea inward and outward, /. c, addueting and ahducting it; and the superior and inferior obliques rotate it on a sagittal axis, thus turning the cornea round like a wheel on its axis. Besides its main action, the superior rectus adducts and slightly rotates the cornea inward, and to correct this tendency is the special function of the infei'ior oblique. Again, the inferior rectus in addition to its main action, tends to adduct the cornea and rotate it outward ; but the superior oblique opj)oses both these tendencies. What has been described as their main actions are the sole actions of the two lateral recti. The levator palpehrw superioris ("lifter of the upper lid") may appropriately be described in this connection. It arises from the small wing of the sphenoid above the origin of the superior rectus, and passing forward close to the roof of the orbit, is inserted by a broad aponeurosis into the tarsus of the upper lid. It- also sends a more superficial fibrous expansion forward among the fosciculi of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and this gains an attachment to the skin of the eyelid. Its action is to elevate the lid. Nerve-mpply.—The superior oblique is supplied by the fourth cranial nerve, the external rectus by the sixth, and all the rest by the third in two divisions. The superior division is given to the levator palpebrte and superior rectus; the inferior to the inferior and internal recti and the inferior oblique. THE SUPERFICIAL APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. Under this head come the eyelids, conjunctiva, and lachrymal apparatus. The Eyelids. The eyelids (palpebrce) are two loose, tegumentary folds, which when brought together, cover the front of the eyeball. The upper is larger and more movable than the lower, and takes by far the greater part in opening and closing the eye. About half an inch above its free margin a transverse wrinkle, the superior palpebral fold, divides it into an upper or orbited portion and a lower or palpebral ■portion. Over the former part the skin is extremely loose, and lends itself readily to subcutaneous hemorrhage and conditions of oedema. Over the lower part it is closely adherent to the subjacent tissue. There is an inferior pcdpjebral fold in the skin of the lower lid, but it is not as well marked, unless the eye is widely open. The space between the free margins of the lids, the palpebrcd aperture, varies a good deal in different individuals, and even in the same individual according as the pupil is directed upward, downward, or straight for- ward. In the first position the space is greatest, in the second, least. The angles formed by the lids at their inner and outer ends are called the cantld, of which the outer is sharp, the inner rounded. The free margins of the lids are flat, and present an anterior rounded angle and a sharp posterior one in contact with the eyeball. Along the anterior angle jirojeet two or three rows of short, strong692 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. liairs, the cUla or eyelashes, which curve away from the ]wlpehral aperture. Behind tliese and nearer to the posterior angle are the openings of the (hicts of tlie Meibomian [/lands, twenty or thirty in number and more numerous in tlie Fig. 739.—The tarsi and ihcir ligaments—right eye, front view. (Testut.) upper lid than in the lower. There are also modified sweat and sebaceous glands in this situation. For the first fifth incli out from the inner canthus the divergence of the lids is very gradual and then suddenly becomes more marked. Along this part the lids have no cilia and are not in contact with the eyeball. Nestling in between them in this situation, and resting against tlie globe of the eye, is a little fleshy protuberance, the earuncula lacliryiiialis (" the little fleshy body jiertaining to tears"), which has all the characteristics of true skin, although quite isolated from the adjacent integument. The depression here between the lids, from the bottom of which the caruncle protrudes, is known as the laeus lachrymalis (" lake of tears "). Just at the points where the divergence of the lids becomes suddenly more pronounced a small prominence may be noticed on the margin of each lid. This is the papilla lachrymalis, and on its summit is the minute opening, punctum lachrymale of tlie lachrymal catiaJ, leading into the lachrymal sac. The lower punctum is slightly farther out than the upper. The puncta are applied to the surface of the globe and are not seen unless the lids are slightly everted. Structure of the Eyelids (Fig. 740).—On their superficial aspect the eyelids have a covering of skin, very thin and delicate, and containing fine hairs, sebaceous follicles, and sweat glands. On their jiosterior surface they are covered by a mucous membrane, called the conjunctiva, which, at a certain distance back from the free margin, is reflected onto the eyeball. Between these two coverings various other structures enter into the formation of the lid. Imme- diately beneath the skin is a layer of loose, fiitless, areolar tissue, which provides for the laxity of the integument. Embedded in this tissue is the orbicularis palpebrarum mnscle, the sphincter of the paljiebral aperture, serving by its con- traction to approximate the lids, and thus close the eye. Deeper than this is the tarsus (often, though improperly, called " tarsal cartilage ") (Fig. 739), a thin plate of dense, fibrous tissue devoid of cartilage cells, which strengthens the margin of the liil, and stretches from the inner to the outer orbital wall. The ujiper tarsus is much stronger and thicker than the loAver, and about twice as Avide. Each tarsus is thickest at its free border and widest in the middle. They thin off toward the attached edges above and below, and taper toward the ends. Their attachments to the inner and outer orbital margins are known as the innerTHE EYE. 693 and ontcr palpehml /!(/aments. The former, which is much the stronger and more marked, is often called the tendo oeuli. It is attached to the nasal process of the superior maxilla in front of the lachrymal groove, and to the ridge on the laclirynial bone. Between these points it arches round the front and outer walls of the lachrymal sac. Where the two tarsi blend into this ligament it gives origin to the palpebral portion of the orbicularis muscle, and when this muscle contracts, closing the lids, it produces an eidargement of the cavity of tlie lachrymal sac thus causing it to suck in the tears from the lacus lachrymalis. To the upper edge Fig. 740.—U)iper lid iu sagittal section. (After Merkel.) of the superior tarsus is attached the wide tendon of the levator palpebrse, and to the lower edge of the inferior tarsus a fibrous expansion from the sheath of the inferior rectus. Embedded in the deep surface of each tarsus are the Meibomian glands, longer and more numerous in the upper lid than in the lower. On everting the eyelid they may be noticed as faint pearly lines running beneath the conjunctiva tow^ird the free margin of the lid. They are a variety of sebaceous glands and their secretion prevents any adhesion between the lids, and keeps the tears from flowing over onto the face until considerably heaped up in the palpebral aperture. The Conjunctiva (Fig. 741). The conjunctiva is a mucous membrane, which, as before stated, lines the inner surface of the eyelids (palpebral conjunctiva) and is reflected from them onto the surface of the eyeball (ocular conjunctiva). The fold of reflection is the con-THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. 694 SUPERIOR FORNIX junctival fornix. It is deeper in the upper tlian in the lower lid. To that part of the lid to which the skin is elosely adherent on the outside the conjunctiva is equally adherent on the inside. Over the rest of the lid, and over the eyeball as far as the cornea it is comparatively loose. On the cornea it adheres firmly. The palpebral conjunctiva is thick, vascular, and highly sensitive. On the sclerotic the ocular conjunctiva becomes thin and transparent, and in the healthy condition is only slightly vascular. On the cornea it becomes reduced toalaver of stratified, flattened epithelium, several cells deep. Just outside the caruneula lachrymalis there is a semilunar fold of conjunctiva stretching between the lids with its concavity toward the cornea. This is the plica .se))iilunaris, the rudimentary homologue of the mem- brana nictitans, or third eyelid, in birds. INFERIOR FORNIX Fig. 741.—Sagittal section of eye, showing superior and inferior fornices of the con- junctiva, (Testut.) The Lachrymal Gland (Fig. 742). This organ is situated in the upper, outer, and anterior part of the orbital cavity, occupying a fossa in the orbital plate of the frontal bone at the inner side of the external angular process. It rests U])on the upper and outer aspect of the eyeball (separated from it by conjunctiva) between the attachments of the superior and external recti. It consists of two portions, partially separated by a fibrous septum, an upper, larger part lying against the orbital roof, and a smaller, lower part, which reaches forward almost to the margin of the orljit, and outward as far as the external canthus. The ducts of the gland, seven or eight in number, open in a row on the upper and outer part of the palpebi'al conjunctiva near the fornix. Tiie progressive closure from without inward of of the lids in winking disperses the lachrymal secretion over the whole surface of the eye, and tends to collect it in the lacus lachrymalis. Hei'e it is sucked into the lachrymal canals through tut.) the puncta, which ai'e applied closely to the surface of the eye, and is conveyed by them to the lachrymal sac, into which they open separately, or by a common tube. From this it is conveyed downward through the nasal duct into the inferior meatus of the nose, where it helps to moisten the inspired air. The lachrymal canals are first vertical in direction in both lids, then horizontal and convergent inward—points to be remembered in attempts to pass a probe or bristle. The lachrymal sac is the upper enlarged end of the nasal duct. Its upper extremity is blind, and reaches higher than the openings of the canals. It is lodged in the groove formed by the lachrymal bone and superior maxilla, and is continuous below with the nasal duct. Both Ibrm a tube of mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the nose below and with the conjunctiva above. The bony canal in Avhich this tube lies is lined throughout by periosteum, between Avhich and the mucous membrane there is a layer of loose, connective tissue. This is particularly abundant around the lachrymal sac, thus allowing considerable distension of that organ. Fig. 742.—The lachrymal apparatus of the right eye. (Tes-THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. By F. H. GEERISH. the lowest forms of animal life there is no differentiation of organs, each part of the body being eqnally capable of performing every kind of work within the sphere of the creature's possibilities. The little animal called amoeba furnishes a good illustration of this fact. The whole creature may be regarded as a minute mass of living protoplasm. A particle of nutritious material coming in contact with the sensitive surface of an amoeba is seized by little protrusions which are thrust out around it, and is presently enclosed completely by the pro- longations. In the containing cavity thus formed the particle is held until the animal has absorbed all of the food which it can get from this source. Then the little projections which have enwrapped the nutrient material are withdrawn, the cavity which they formed is thus obliterated, and the residue of the bit of pabu- lum is released. Soon, it may be, the very portion of the amoeba, which was just now a recess, becomes a protrusion, fastens to some fixed object, and by its contractile power pulls the bulk of the animal up to the point of attachment, itself becoming effaced in the larocess. Thus, it will be seen that a single ]iortion of the creature's body can serv'e as an organ of sensation, an organ of prehension, an organ of absorption, and an organ of locomotion : feeling, grasping, abstract- ing, moving from place to place are all in turn shown to be capabilities of one small part, which in no way differs from every other part. Each of these organs was merely temporary : the impact-perceiving surface was transformed into seiz- ing hands ; these presently became a stomach; this soon turned into a leg; and the leg disappeared by flattening itself out into a sensitive surface, capable of appreciating tlie touch of a particle brought in contact with it. Differentiation of Organs.—In animals a little higher in the scale of being a depression is seen at some ])oint of the surface, forming a permanent recess, into which minute bits of pabulum are received and de- prived of their nourishing material, after which pro- cess the unserviceable remnants are expelled by the door which gave them admission (Fig. 743). A step farther up.we find the receptacle deeper, more capaci- ous, and capable of effecting such changes in the food introduced into it as will make a larger proportion available for absorption into the system. In the next grade beyond this, the cavity becomes so long as nearly to reach the surface opposite to that at which its opening is located. One slight additional exten- sion in the direction of previous growth results in perforation of the tissues intervening lietween the cavity and the surfiice ; and, thus, tlie deep depres- sion is converted into a tube, reaching from one end of the animal to the other, and permitting the expul- sion of the unused portion of the food by an opening- other than that by which it was introduced. This tube, short and simple, is the type upon which is constructed every ali mentary canal, however complicated. Elaboration of this structure is accom 695 Fig. 743.—Diagram to lUustrate the gradual development of the alimentary tube. (Testut.)696 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. MOUTH salivary "glands PHARYNX plished in several directions : (1) by cnkm/ement lonr/itadiiiaUi/, so that the length of the canal becomes in some animals many times greater than that of a straight line between its two extremities, thus fiirnisliing an immensclv more extensive surface, without corresponding increase in the size of the individual; (2) by dila- tation at various places, and by the formation of transverse folds projecting into the bore, by which is gained not only augmentation of area, but also, what is of great advantage, temporary detention of the contents so that they mav l)e modified in ways wliich would be impossible during their rapid passage ; (3) by the adrJi- iion of certain structures and materials to the walls of the tube, which thus can effect the comminution of introduced material, furnish solvent fluids of different kinds, and influ- ence the aceelei'ation or retardation of the current of the matters contained in the canal ; (4) by the development of acces- sory organs, which, though originating as mere buds from the sides of the tube, grow and develop until they attain considerable —perhaps immense—size, and supply secre- tions of essential importance ; and (5) by the formation of a reservoir, in which waste matters can be stored until it is convenient to void them. The Human Alimentary System (Fig. 744).—These features are all illustrated in the human alimentary system. The tube measures thirty feet from the aperture of introduction, the mouth, to the opening of expulsion, the vent or anus ; but the dis- tance between these points in a direct line is not more than the same number of inches. Connected with the initial segment of the canal is an apparatus, ivhich minces and crushes hard masses of aliment, thus pro- digiously increasing the surface of the matters to be acted upon by the solvent fluids, and, consequently, expediting the liquefactive process. The lining membrane of the entire tube is of the mucous variety ; but it does much more, in the greater part of its course, than furnish a protective smear, for it is so modified by the formation in its very substance of a numberless multitude of peculiar glands, that it affords various juices, by whose agency important changes in the prejiaration of food for absorption are brought about. From one end of the canal to the other its walls contain muscle, M-hich by its contraction carries the contents onward with sufficient speed. A short distance from its beginning the tube expands into a large cavity, the stomach, which delays the swallowed food, as a pond in the course of a river causes a dim- inution in the rapidity of tlie current. Throughout the most of the remainder of the canal we find little shelves, extending into the lumen from the sides, and causing at once increase of surface and retardation of the stream. There are also glands —the salivary, the pancreas, the livei*—which, although entirely outside of the limits of the alimentary tube in their developed condition, originate from it, dis- charge their peculiar products into it, and are thus accessory in their action to the glands which make a part of the walls of the canal itself. Finally, the last great segment is so constructed tliat it acts as a receptacle in wliich unappropri- ated parts of the food and certain effete substances fnmi the system can be retained until the arrival of suitable times for their evacuation. SMALL INTESTINE ANUS Fig. 744.—Diagram of the alimentary tube and its appendages. (Testut.)THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 697 Segments of the Alimentary Tube.—The alimentiuy canal is naturally divided into a number of segments, which occur in the following order, beginning at the upper end : mouth, jjharynx, gullet, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, anal canal. It is usual to reckon tlie anal canal as a part of the large intestine ; but, later in this cha2)tcr, it will be seen that there is good reason for giving it a place as a separate segment, since it should be regarded as a tubular passage rather than as a mere opening. Tunics of the Alimentary Canal.—Every portion of the inner surface of the canal is covered by mucous membrane, with the exception presented by the crowns of the teeth. Even this, to the philosophical anatomist, does not seem an excep- tion ; for he recalls the fact that the teeth, though so dense and white as to afford a very striking contrast to the soft and reddish membrane from which they pro- ject, are epithelial in their mode of development, and that the glistening, dry enamel, which encrusts their crowns, is strictly and wholly epithelium, originally like that which surmounts the dull and moist mucosa. Outside of this inner, mucous tunic is one of arcoliir tisme, almost everywhere very distinct, but, in a few places of no great extent, very condensed. Still another coat is found exter- nal to the areolar, the muscular, usually arranged in two layers, an internal, whose fibres are circular in direction, and an external, in which they run longi- tudinally. Finally, in that portion of the canal, which lies below the diaphragm, there is almost everywhere a fourth tunic, composed of serous membrane. The Service of each Tunic.—C'alling to mind the character and functions of these various membranes and tissues, as described in the chapter on histology, we .shall quickly obtain a general idea of the physiological capabilities of the tube whose wall they compose. Ifucous membrane is a soft, moist structure, secreting a glairy Huid, which serves to smear the surface, and thus at once prevents its becoming dry, and pro- tects from the injury which the contact of foreign substances might otherwise occasion. In the larger part of the alimentary canal the membrane contains great numbers of small, tubular glands, which, instead of secreting mucus alone, as is the case with the corresponding structures in the respiratory tubes, the urinary bladder, and other organs, manufacture different fluids, possessed of such qualities that they can effect important changes in food which is taken, and put it in condition to undergo absorption into the blood and incorporation into the tissues of the body. Mucosa is not an elastic structure : it will bear very little stretching without harm. But we find that, where it lines hollow organs, which are liable to become distended, it is, at almost every part of the surface, so loose in the collapsed condition of the viscus that it is deeply wrinkled, and lies in well-marked folds. When the cavity is filled, these loose ridges are smoothed out and disap])ear, and the mucosa is evenly spread, but not rendered tense ; and, thus, it suffers no harm. This passive movement of the membrane would not be practicable except for the areolar coat, which connects it with the muscular. Areolar tissue is strong, flexible, elastic, and full of spaces in the meshes of its network. It, therefore, holds the mucosa firmly but gently in place at all times, regulating its wrinkling so that its folds are evenly distributed, and permitting its extension without dis- placement from its proper relation to the muscular coat. The areolar coat affords an easy and safe bed for the vessels and nerves, whose twigs, and rootlets, and filaments form networks throughout the two tunics, between which this coat is situated. The muscular coat is that by which active movements of the tube are pro- duced. Its tissue is nearly all of the involuntary variety. Its movements are mostly of a vermicular kind, and serve to carry the contents of the canal from the upper to the lower end. The serous membrane clothes the tube in its abdominal portion—that in which there is the largest variation in the size of the organs, the greatest necessity for activity of movement, and the most frequent liability to pressure from without.THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 698 But all of these things—distension, contraction, peristalsis, compression—can take place withont making trouble, for the f)rgans have so slippery an outer sur- face that they glide freely on one another during the less movements, and slide elusively out of the way of extraneous force. Gas in the Alimentary Tube.—The tube in the larger part of its course gen- erally contains more or less gas, which, by keeping the opposite walls somewhat separated from each other, prevents the injury which would prtibably come from the prolonged rubbing together of these soft and delicate surfaces. In some regions, however, as in the gullet, the opposite surfaces of the membrane are in contact nearly all of the time; but in these cases the structure is very different from that in the stomach and intestines, especially as regards the epithelium, which, instead nf l)eing tender and in a single lamina, as in the latter organs, is hard and stratified, and capable of withstanding the influence of incessant pressure and friction. THE MOUTH. The mouth (os) (Fig. 745) is the organ in which are accomplished wholly or in part the functions of prehension, mastication, insalivation, gustatory sensa- FiG. 745—Sagittal section of the face and neck, sliowmg the hrst portions of the alimentary and respiratory tracts. (Testut.) tion, and articulation. Its name is applied popularly not only to the cavity in the face, which consti- tutes the initial segment of the alimentary canal, but also to the aperture of entrance and to the lips ; but anatomists use it only in the first sense. It is not always an actual cavity—a fact demonstrated in sagittal frozen sections, in whichTHE MOUTH. 699 commonly its floor and roof are in contact, and its side walls hug the dental arches. "Between this merely potential cavity and that of Avide expansion is a great distance, within which are countless variations in shape ; but the mouth may conventionally be regarded as a rather oval, horizontal slit, presenting marked irregularities of size and form. Its virtual cavity is made real by separation of the '^lips or cheeks from the teeth, by the flattening of the tongue, or by the depression of the lower jaw. The oral space is divided by the apposed dental arches into the vestibule and the mouth projjer. The former, vestibulmn oris, has in front the lips, at the sides the cheeks, and its opposite boundaries are made by the outer surface of the gums and teeth ; the latter, caimm oris, is bounded above by the hard palate, below by the tongue and the sublingual space, in front and at the sides by the inner surfiice of the gums and teeth, and behind l)y the soft palate and the aperture beneath it by which the mouth opens into the pharynx. The two portions communicate witli one another by the gaps between the teeth and by the considerable space behind the last molar teeth. The Lips. The lips (labia), upper and lower, are musculo-membranous folds, enclosing the transverse slit which is the front aperture of the mouth. Each is attached to a jaw-bone just beyond the base of the alveolar process. The external limits have been given on page 23. From before backward they are composed of skin, muscle, areolar tissue containing glands, and mucous membrane, the last forming the free border as well as the lining. The skin, adherent to the muscle, presents no especial peculiarities, except the growth of strong hairs in the adult male. The muscular layer is mostly formed by the orbicularis oris, into which other muscles from various regions of the face are inserted. The areolar lamina is occupied by an almost continuous layer of racemose glands, called labial, which are practically identical in structure with the salivary glands. The mucous mem- brane is smooth and moist, and is reflected from the lips to the gums. A fold of it in the middle line at the junction with the gums forms a bridle, frcenum labii, for each lip. On its free border the lip is abundantly supplied with papillae. Everywhere its epithelium is flattened and stratified. The Cheeks. The surface-limits of the cheek have been detailed on page 23. A consider- able part of its surface is attached to the bones of the face; only the central portion is free, and clothed with mucous membrane, this being continnous with that of the lips, and, like it reflected to the gums. Five layers go to compose the cheek : skin, areolar tissue, deep fascia, muscle, and mucosa. The skin is continuous with that of the lips, and in the adult male is, to a large extent, covered with strong hairs. The areolar tissue is usually laden with fat-cells, these being most numerous in children and young women, and least abundant in the aged. The next layer is formed by the fasciae of the masseter and buccinator, which muscles constitute a large part of the fourth lamina. The mucous mem- brane, continued from that of the lips, is similar to it, but there is no glandular layer connected with it, as in the labial region. There are, however, a number of mucous glands, called buccal and molar, on the outer surface of the buccinator, each of which sends its excretory duct through the mucous membrane, and pours its fluid into the mouth. Here, too, the mucosa is perforated by the duct from the parotid gland. The Hard Palate. The hard palate {palatum durum) forms the roof of the mouth. Its basis is made by the palate processes of the upper jaw-bones and the horizontal plates ofTHE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 700 the palate bones, which, immovably united and bordered in front and laterally by the drooping alveolar process, make a flattened vault of horse-shoe shape. Mucous membrane, smooth, tough, and continuous with that of the gums, lines the roof, being closely adherent to the periosteum at the alveolar margin and mid line ; but, where such attachment does not exist, there is a comj)act layer of racemose glands, called palatine glands, resembling the salivary, and embedded in areolar tissue, which hugs the periosteum. Each of these glands sends its duct through the mucosa, so that the latter is plentifully dotted with their minute openings. The surface is roughened, especially in front, with low, ol)liquely transverse ridges, has numerous small jiapillte, and dis])lays a median rai>he, at whose ante- rior end is a tubercle, which marks the inferior orifice of the anterior palatine canal. The Soft Palate (Fig. 746). Attached to the hind end of the hard palate, and drooping obliquely back- ward from it with perfect continuity of surface, is the soft palate {jjalatum molle), also called the velum pendulum palati (" pendulous veil of the palate"), which f :-. extends from side to side, and terminates I i below in an arched border, from the centre of Avhich dangles a teat-like process, the uvula (" little grape"). From the base of the uvula on each side the lower edge of the velum is, as it were, split, one part going outward, downward, and forward to the side of the tongue, the other outward, downward and backward to the side of the pharynx, leaving between them on the side wall of the region a triangular recess with its base toward the tongue. The former ridge is the anterior pAllar of the palate, the latter the posterior pillar. The irregular opening bounded by the anterior pillars and the dorsum of the tongue is the isthmus of the fauces, the aperture by which the month communicates with the pharynx. The front (antero-inferior) surface, therefore, of the velum marks the posterior limit of the mouth, and all of the cavity behind this plane belongs to the pliarynx. The free edges of the posterior pillars are nearer together than are those of the anterior pair, and hence both sets are seen distinctly, if the mouth is widely opened, and the tongue depressed. Structure of the Soft Palate.—The soft ]ialate is built upon a fibrous frame- work, which hangs down from the hind border of the hard palate. Into this are inserted various muscles, which constitute the bulk of the organ. Mucous mem- brane covers every part of it, that visible from in front being like the buccal, smooth, rosy, covered with stratified, flattened epithelium, while that on the opjjo- site surfoce resembles the nasal mucous membrane, being uneven, red, and clothed with ciliated, cylindrical ejMthclinm, except at its lowest part, where the cells are like those in front. Beneath the mucosa are many glands, the majority being on the oral side, and continuous with those of the hard palate. During swallowing the veil is lifted backward to the hind wall of the pharynx ; but in suction it is drawn down to the tongue. In articulation it is made to assume every attitude between these extremes. Fig. 746.—The soft palate and tonsillar re- gions. (Testut.)701 THE MOUTH. Muscles of the Soft Palate. The muscles of the soft palate are the palatopharyugeus, palatoglossus, levator palati, tensor palati, and azygos uvulae. Palatopharyngeus (Fig. 747) (" the palate-pharynx muscle ").—Situation, at the side and back of the soft palate. Origin, in the velum, embracing the levator palati and azygos uvulae. Direction, downward, outward, and backward. Insertion, the upper and hind borders of the thyroid cartilage (mingling with the stylo- pharyngeus), and the lower part of the pharynx, extending to the mid- dle line. Action: it lifts the larynx and the tongue, pulls down the velum, and approximates the poste- rior pillars, shutting off the oro- pharynx from the naso-pharynx. Nerves, jirobably from the pharyn- geal plexus through the eleventh cranial. Covered by mucous mem- brane, it forms the posterior pillar of the soft palate. This is joined by a fasciculus arising from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, which has been described as a sepa- rate muscle, under the name of the salpingo-pharyngeus—the first part of the title referring to the trum- pet-shape of the end of the tube. Palatoglossus (Fig. 759) ("the palate-tongue muscle").—St/nom/m, constrictor isthmi faucium, " the constrictor of the isthmus of the fauces." Situation, at the side and front of the soft palate. Origin, in the velum, being continuous with its opposite fellow. Direction, downward, outward, and forward. Insertion, at the side of the tongue. Action: it lifts the tongue, pulls down the velum, and approximates the anterior pillars, closing the pharynx from the mouth. Nerves, probably from the pharyngeal plexus through the eleventh cranial. Covered by mucous membrane, it forms the anterior pillar of the soft palate. Levator Palati (Fig. 747) ("the lifter of the palate").—Situation, in the upper part of the velum. Origin, the under surface of the jjetrous portion of the tem- poral bone, in front of the carotid canal. Direction, downward, inward, and forward. Insertion: it blends with its opposite fellow. Action, lifting the velum. Nerve, probably the spinal accessory, through the pharyngeal plexus. Tensor Palati ("the tightener of the palate").—Synonym, circumflexus, "the muscle which bends around." Sitimtion, in the velum. Origin, the root of the internal pterygoid plate, the spine of the sphenoid, the Eustachian tube. Direc- tion, downward to the hamular process, then inward. Insertion, the middle of the soft palate, and the under surface of the palate bone. Action, tightening the velum. Nerve, the third division of the fifth. Fig. 747.—Muscles of the soft palate, viewed from behind. The dorsal wall of the pharynx has been laid open. (Testut.)702 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Azygos Uvulae (Fig. 747) (" the unyoked (not-paired) muscle of the uvula," —a misnomer, as there are two muscles).—Situation, in the soft palate, close to the midline. Or/r//??, posterior nasal spine. Direction, dowmvard. The muscles of the two sides unite below, and terminate in a free, dangling end, making the bulk of the uvula. Adiov, shortening the uvula. Nerve, probably the spinal acces- sory, through the pharyngeal plexus. THE TEETH. The teeth are dense, white structures, firmly implanted in sockets in the alveolar processes of the jaw-bones. They are essential parts of the chewing- apparatus, and are concerned in articulation. Each consists of three portions—a root or fang, a neck, and a crown. The surface toward the tongue is called " inner," and the o]>2)osite one is called " outer." The root is embedded in the bone, has a tapering shape, and fits accurately in its socket—an arrangement which ensures a distribution of pressure over the sur- face, and the removal of pressure from the tip of the fang, where the vessels and nerves pass to and from the tooth-cavity. The crovn is the portion which projects beyond the gum. The neeh is a narrow strip between the fang and crown, is slightly, if at all, constricted, and is embraced by the border of the gum. In each jaw are sixteen teeth, arranged with bilateral symmetry, and all set obliquely, except the two nearest the middle line in the mandible. Classifying them ac- cording to their shape, and reckoning from the median line, we find in each lateral half of each jaw two incisors, one canine, two bicuspids, and three molars (Fig. 748). The Incisors (Fig. 749) ("cutters") are the teeth by which portions of food are bitten off. The root of an incisor is a long cone ; Fig. 748.—The teeth of the right half of the upper jaw in their sockets.viewed from below. UPPER INCISORS FRONT UPPER INCISORS REAR UPPER INCISORS SIDE CENTRAL LATERAL LOWER INCISORS —FRONT LOWER INCISORS—REAR LOWER I N C1 SO RS—SI DE Fig. 749.—The inci.sor teeth from different points of view. (Testut.) its crown presents an anterior, slightly convex surfiice, and a posterior, slightly con- cave surface, the two meeting in a sharp free edge. The central incisors (those703 THE MOUTH. nearest the raid-line) of the upper set are kxrger than the lateral; but the central incisors of the lower jaw are smaller than tlieir laterals. The Canine (Fig. 750), so-called from its prominence in animals of the dog- tribe, has a longer fang than an incisor. Its crown terminates in a sharp point, technically a cusp, from which conies tlie name, " cus- pidate," occasionally employed. An upper canine is upper canine of right side vulgarly called an ei/e-toofh, and a lower a stomach- tooth, each from the direction of its fang. A Bicuspid (Fig. 751), as its name implies, has two prominences or cusps on its crown. From its situation in front of the next grouj) it is also called premolar. Its root shows an attempt at division. Molars ("millstones") (Figs. 752, 753) are thus named from their being concerned in grinding the food, and are also called multicuspids from their having three or more cusps on their summits, double teeth from their size, and Jaw-teeth from the room which they occupy. In the upper set the molars have three fangs each ; their mates in the lower liave but two each. The third nu)lar is, with iine irony, called the uusdom-tooth, because it does not appear until the late teens. The absence of this tooth about once in eight times, and its crowded condition in many cases, when present, point to the gradnal lessening of the size of the jaws in proportion to the diminution of the w'ork required of them in civilized life. Excepting the last upper molar, each tooth touches two in tJie opposite set, when the jaws are closed (Fig. 754). The upper dental arch is a little larger ^^^^ ^.^^^^^^ than its fellow, and overlaps it in front, so that the (Xestut.) cutting edge of the superior incisors glides downward on the anterior surface of the lower, as one blade of a pair of scissors acts upon the other. Sets of Teeth. The teeth grow in two series, the one in infancy, the other in childhood and youth. The former are displaced by the latter, and, therefore, are named tempo- rary, or first teeth. They are also called deciduous, because they are shed, and mVh-teeth on account of their development during the period of lactation. Those of the later set are called permanent, or second teeth, and it is they which have just been described (Fig. 755). The Temporary Teeth are twenty in number, there being five in each lateral half of each jaw, namely two incisors, one canine, and two molars. It will be observed that there are no bicuspids, and no third molar. The bicuspids of the permanent set take the place of the temporary molars, and the jaw grows suf- ficiently to give room for the permanent molars, which are the successors of no other teeth. Eruption of the Teeth.—The temporary teeth usually begin to appear when the baljy is about seven months old, and he has his full score by the time that he is two years of age. Before any of the milk-teeth are shed, the first grinders of the second set are fully developed. They are called the six-year molars in cele- bration of the time of their advent. The others of the series consume a dozen years in their " cutting," as their protrusion through the gum is commonly called. There are so many exceptions to any rule, which states the i)recise date of appearance of the teeth, that it is well nigh useless to present such a formula. But it is desirable to know the order in which they may be expected, and this isTHE ORGANS OF DIGESTIOX. 704 presented in Fig. 755. Tlie diagraui also gives the po>iti(in in the dt^ntal aix'h of the teeth of each set ami ?-ho\vs what kind of permanent tooth succeeds t'aeh UPPER BICUSPIDS OF RIGHT SIDE OUTER SURFACE INNER SURFACE FRONT SURFACE (GRINDING SURFACE OUTER SURFACE INNER SU RFAC E FRONT SURFACE [GRINDING * SURFACE LOWER BICUSPIDS OF RIGHT SIDE Fig. 751.—The bicuspid teeth from dift'erent points of view. (Testut.) temporary tooth. It is to be noted, liowever. tliat the permanent teeth appear in the jaw on the lingual >ide nf the temporary, and not, as might be inferred from OUTER SURFACE INNER SURFACE Fig. LOWER MOLARS OF RIGHT SIDE -The mohir teeth viewed from the outer and inner sides. (Testut.1 this diasram, on the labio-bueeal ~ide. The lower tooth of a given kind usually is cut just before its mate above appears.705 THE MOUTH. Method of Displacement of Temporary Teeth.—The temporary teeth are replaced by the permanent in the following; manner : the tooth which is to succeed the deciduous tooth is j)ushed ujiward by the continual growth of the dentine of its fang. Its enamel is crowded against the root of the milk-tooth, cuts otf its nutri- tion, and, by tlie incessant pressure of its dense substance upon the less hard materials composing the root of the tooth above, causes the latter to dwindle away, particle by particle, the molecules disa]i]icaring by aljsorption, until all of UPPER MOLARS OF RIGHT SIDE FRONT SURFACE FIRST SECOND THIRD FRONT SURFACE LOWER MOLARS OF RIGHT SIDE Fig. 753.—The mular tL'ctU—tlieir front and grinding surfacus. (Testut.) the root has vanished, and the only support of the crown is that afforded by the adhesion of the gum to the neck. Then the crown is knocked off by some slight force, and in its place appears that of its permanent successor. A\nien the ]ier- manent tooth is not aimed accurately at the root of the temporary, l)ut shoots by it, the latter remains undisturbed. Morphological Character of a Tooth.—A tooth, though intimately connected MOLARS BICUSPIDS CANINE INCISORS BICUSPIDS CANINE INCISORS ' Fig. 7.54.—Diagram of the dental arches, seen from the right side, showing their reciprocal relations. (Testut.) I with the bony skeleton, is really a calcified ])a])illa of the mucous membrane. A j portion of the alveolar process grows around its base, and furnishes a snug .socket for it ; but, in spite of its density and the solidity of its implantation, it is com- parable with otiier jjapilke, such as that of a hair-follicle. The changes in the epithelium of the hair-papilla are unlike those which take place in that of the tooth-])apilla, and, consequently, the result is very diiferent, although in both cases the modification is in the direction of hardening; but, philosophically con- 45THE ORGAJyS OF DIGESTIOX. 706 sidered, the hair and the teeth are closely related, as -will l)e seen, if one studies the development of the two. PERMANENT II II VII VIII FIRST MOLAR SECOND MOLAR THIRD MOLAR FIRST MOLAR SECOND MOLAR THIRD MOLAR VII VIII Fig. 755.—Diagram showing what permanent tooth replaces eacli temporiu y tootli, and also the order of succession of the teeth of each set. (F. H. G.) Just before the six-year molars are erupted from the gum, forty-eight teeth in various stages of formation and retrogression can be recognized in the t^vo jaws CENTRAL INCISOR Pig. 756.—The jaws of a child of seven and a half year.s, the external table of bone having been cut away to show the stage of second dentition. (Testut.)THE MOUTH. 707 —twenty of the tennjoraiy set, and twenty-oiglit of the permanent. The fuur wisdom-teeth at this time are only embryonic ljuds (Fig. 756). The Gums. The gums {gingii-w) are dense, smooth mucous membrane, fused upon the periosteum of tlie alveoUir processes. They are very resistant to pressure, and have comparatively sliglit sensitiveness. The iloor of the mouth is formed mainly by the tongue, in small part by the sublingual structures. THE TONGUE. The tongue {lingua) (Fig. 757) is coni])osed mostly of voluntary muscles, which give it protean power of changing its shape. Its upper surface can be convexed or concaved ; its point can be thrust forward beyond the lips, drawn backward nearly or quite to the junction of the hard and soft palates, swept over the entire surface of the vestibule above and below; in short, the free portion of this organ can be made to assume such a multitude of forms as to defy description. This capacity accounts for its varied usefulness in the processes of prehension, chewing, swallowing, speech, touch, taste, and expression. The part of the tongue which presents a free sur- face upward and backward is called the dorsum. The anterior two-thirds of this is in the floor' of the mouth, the posterior third in the front wall of the pharynx. The pharyn- geal part of the dorsum forms the very sloping floor of the space marked olf on each side by the two pillars of the soft palate. It has a mam- inillated appearance, caused by the presence of numerous racemose glands and lymphoid masses. Just behind the apex of the series of circumvallate papilla? (desci'ibed on a previous ]mge) is a little aperture, the foramen cwcum (" blind hole"), the remnant of a fretal canal. At the lowest part of the pharyngeal surflice the mucosa is raised into three sagittal folds connecting the tongue with the larynx, the central one being the largest, and inserted into the upper surface of the epi- glottis. The oral portion of the dorsum, when entirely at rest, is convex in every UVULA PHARYNX Fig. VriT.—Itfirsiil surface of the tong:ue. (Testut.)708 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Fig. 758,—Under surface of tongue and the sub- lingual space, showinc openings of salivary ducts. The mucosa of the left side is partly removed, and shows the ranine artery, the lingual nerve, and the gland of Bhindin. (Tcstut.) direction. It ends anteriorly in a somewhat pointed tip. Its mucosa is specialized, and has already been described in the chapter on the organs of the special senses. The Sublingual Space (Fig. 758).— Lifting lip tlie tij) of the tongue we obtain a view of the sublingual space. We see that the mucous membrane of the under side of the tongue is smootli, and not furnished with such specialized papilhe as mark the upjjer surface. A fore-and-aft fold, the frcennm Ihupiai ("bridle of the tongue"), in the mid line, connecting the tongue with the jaw, limits the backward movements of the ajK'x. On each side of this bridle opens a duct from the ftu/jviaxil/ary sa/iv- ari/ f/laii<J. The sublingual salivary gland forms an elongated elevation in the gutter betw-een the tongue and the jaw on each side, and the openings of its many ducts are found in the region of the fraMium. Beneath tlie rest of the mucous mcmlirane in this space are various lingual muscles. Structure of the Tongue.—As pre- viously stated the tongue is made up largely of muscles. These are ar- ranged in ])airs with bilateral sym- metry, and when we speak of the action of a given muscle, we shall imply the simultaneous contraction of its fellow of the opposite side. Mingled with the muscles of the tongue are iibrous, and adipose tissues, and many vessels and nerves. Its framework consists of a vertical, median, fibrous plate, extending from the hyoid bone to the tip of the tongue, and a fibrous lamina near the surface of the dorsum and edges in each lateral half. The muscular part of the tongue comprises two groups—the intrinsic and the extrinsic muscles. The distinction between them is somewhat arbitrary. If the connections of the tongue with the hyoid bone, the styloid process of the tem- poral, the mandible, the velum palati, and the pharynx be severed (the muscles in each case being traced to their attachments) and the organ be then removed, we shall see that there is a firm central portion of definite shape, tapering from behind forward, and that from this body project a number of muscular bands of various forms and .sizes. The intrinsic muscles are found only in the central mass ; the projecting bands are parts of the extrinsic muscles, the other parts being embedded in the central ma,«s, in which their fil)res decussate with those of the intrinsic mu.^cles. The Lingualis Muscle.—The intrinsic mass or tongue ]iroper is sometimes spoken of as the /iiif/ualis imtscle; but it is convenient to divide it into four por- tions—the superior, the inferior, the transverse, and the vertical. They are all su2>plied by the hypoglossal nerve. The superior lingualis con.sists of longitudinal fasciculi, which lie near the upper surface from the hyoid to the apex, attachments lieing made all along with the submucous tissues. Its action produces shortening of tlie tongue, and longi- tudinal grooving of its dorsum. The inferior lingualis is a large bundle, which runs under the edge of the tongue in its whole length. It shortens the tongue and rounds up its dorsum. The transverse lingualis is made up of fibres which arise in the median sef)tiiniTHE MOUTH. 709 and run to the di)rsum and margin, lamina. It dimini.shos the width and Tlie vertical lingualis is composed where they are inserted into the fibrous increases the length of the oroan. of small fasciculi, which course from the dorsum to the under surface, curving with their concavity outward. Its fibres are interlaced with tliose of the transverse lingualis. It broadens and flattens the tongue. The Extrinsic Muscles of the Tongue. The extrinsic muscles of the tongue are the genioglossus, the hyoglossus, the styloglossus, and the chondroglossus. To this list is sometimes added the pala- toglossus ; but it seems better to include this with the muscles of the soft palate, already described. Genioglossus (Fig. 759) (" the chin-tongue muscle ").—Synonym, geniohyo- glossus, " the chin-hyoid-tongue muscle." Situation, in the middle line of the tongue. Origin, the upper genial tubercle. Direction, divergent—backward, upward, and to all points between. Insertion, the hyoid bone and the whole length of the tongue in and at the sides of the mid line. Action: the back part thrusts the tongue forward ; the front part retracts the tip of the tongue ; the part between the apex and the base depresses the mid line, thus forming a gutter. Nerve, the hypoglossal. Hyoglossus (Figs. 759, 760) ("the hyoid-tongue muscle").—Situation, between the hyoid and the side of the tongue. Origin, the great cornu and the body of the hyoid. Direction, upward and forward. Insertion, the side and dor- sum of the tongue, blending with the styloglossus. Action, retraction and de])res- sion of the tongue. Nerve, the hypoglossal. Styloglossus (Figs. 759, 760) (" the styloid-process-tongue muscle").—Situa- tion, between the side of the base of the skull and the side of the tongue, outside of the pharynx. Origin, the front of the styloid process of the temjioral bone, and the stylomandibular ligament. Direction, forward, downward, and a little inward. Insertion, the whole length of the side and under part of the tongue. Its fibres blend with those of the hyoglossus and palatoglossus. Action : it draws the tongue backward, and lifts its base. Nerve, the hypoglossal.710 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Chondroglossus.—" The cartilage-tongue muscle," so called from its attach- ments to the small cornu (which is usually cartilaginous) of the hyoid and to the tongue. tSitaation, at the side of the tongue below, under cover of the hyoglossus. Origin, the small cornu and body of the hyoid. Direction, upward and forward. Insertion, the dorsum of the tongue. Action : it retracts and depresses the tongue. Nerve, the hypoglossal. THE PHARYNX. Behind the nasal passages, the mouth, and the larynx, beneath the base of the skull, and above the upper end f)f the gullet, is a Iiollow organ of irregular shape, which belongs not only to the alimentary tube, but to the respiratory system, also. It has no name in our vernacular, but is known technically as the 'pharynx (Fig. 745). The upper part, behind the nose, is the naso-phari/n.r; the middle portion, back of the mouth, is the oro-pharynx; and the lowest segment, dorsal to the larynx, is the laryngo-pharynx. The anterior lower limit of the naso-pharynx is at the border of the hard palate; of the oro-pharynx at the upper level of the hyoid bone ; and of the laryngo-pharynx at the lower level of the cricoid cartil- age, which nearly coincides with that of the fifth cervical vertebra. Food passes from the mouth into the oro-pharynx, through the laryngo- pharynx, and into the gullet; and inspired air goes from the nose into the naso- pharynx, through the oro-pharynx, and enters the larynx. Thus the middle seg- ment of this organ is common to the alimentary and respiratory systems, and the tracks followed by the food and the air cross obliquely in it. Like the mouth the pharynx is bilaterally symmetrical. It is widest (nearly one inch and a half) in the upper laryngeal portion, and narrows above and below, having its least diameter (half an inch) at its junction with the gullet. Ventro-dorsally its measurement is everywhere small, only opposite the mouth being more than four-fifths of an inch. It is about five inches long. In short, the cavity of the pharynx may fairly be regarded as a wide side-to-side chink, in front of the upper five cervical vertebra?. Openings of the Pharynx.—In the naso-pharynx are four openings—one at each side for the Eustachian tube, leading to the middle ear, and one forward for each of the lateral halves of the nose,—the posterior nares. In the oro- pharynx is the opening from the mouth, the isthmus of the fauces, between the anterior jiillars of the palate. The laryngo-pharynx opens at its lower end into the gullet, and at its upjier, anterior part into the larynx. The pharynx is firmly fastened to the neighboring parts at its summit, and in the front part of its nasal and oral j^ortions ; but its attachments elsewhere are areolar and loose, so that its lower third can be elevated, and its rear wall advanced, as in swallowing. Tunics of the Pharynx.—Here, as elsewhere in tlie alimentary tube, the wall is comjjosed of three coats ; but the middle one is so much condensed that its areolfe are largely obliterated, and the tunic is more like a fascial layer. The mucous membrane, continuous Avith that of the nose, middle ears, mouth, larynx, and gullet, is covered with ciliated cells as far down as the level of the hard palate, but below tliis is flattened and non-ciliated. On the back (dorso- superior surface) of the soft palate the cells are ciliated, except at the free edge. In and beneath the mucosa are many racemose, mucous glands. The corium is particularly rich in lym])hoid tissue, and at the pharyngeal vault and across the posterior jiart of the oro-pharynx are accumulations of lymplioid material, which, on account of similarity of structure, have been named the phorynr/eal tonsil. High up in the middle line, and running upward and backward to the base of the skull is a blind dej)ression, called the pharyngeal bu7-sa. The muscular tunic is composed of five pairs of muscles, of which three are constrictors—upper, middle, and lower—having for their function the diminution711 THE PHARYNX. of the calibre of the pharynx, and the others—the stylopharyngens and palato- pharyngeus—are elevators, wliich lift up the pharynx and larynx. The last of these has already been described in connection with the soft palate. Muscles of the Pharynx. Constrictor Inferior (Figs. 760, 761) ("the lower constrictor").—SUaatioii, ihe side and back of the lower part of the pharynx. Origin, the cricoid and thyroid cartilages of the larynx. Direction, backward, inward, and upward, diverging from its origin. Insertion, the median tendon, common to it and its fellow opposite, extending nearly to the basilar process of the occipital bone. It over- laps the middle constrictor. Action: \t EXTERNAL compresses the pharynx, mainly ventro- "mea^Cs^ dorsally ; it also moves the larynx up- ward and backward. Nerves, from the phai'yngeal plexus, and the external and inferior laryngeal. Constrictor Medius (Figs. 760, 761) ("the middle constrictor").—Situation, at the side and back of the middle part of the pharynx. Orir/i)i, the cornu of the hyoid, and stylohyoid ligament. Direction, divergent—all portions back- ward and inward, the inferior down- ward, and the superior nj>ward. In- sertion, the common tendon in the middle line in almost the entire length of the pharynx. Action : it compresses the pharynx, chiefly ventro-dorsally; . Fio veo.-Muscicsofthe pharynx, viewed from the d', t ,1 I 'll 1 1 'i ngnt siae. (lestut.) it draws the hyoid l)ackwara and upward. Nerves, from the pharyngeal plexus. Constrictor Superior (Figs. 760, 761) ("the upper constrictor").—Situation, at the side and back of the upper part of the pharynx. Origin, the side of the tongue, the mucosa of the mouth, the mylohyoid ridge, the pterygomaxillary liga- ment, and the lower fourth of the hind border of the internal pterygoid plate. Direction, divergent—all parts backward and inward, the superior upward, and the inferior downward. Insertion, the common tendon in the middle line from the basilar process half way, or more, to the gullet. Action, approximation of the lateral walls of the upper part of the pharynx. Nerves, from the pharyngeal plexus. The name pharyngoglossus (glossopharyngeus) is applied to certain fasciculi which extend from the superior constrictor to the tongue—the upper losing itself in the palatoglossus and styloglossus, the lower merging into the hyoglossus, genioglossus, and liugualis. Stylopharyngeus (Figs. 760, 761) ("the styloid-process-pharynx muscle").— Situation, at the side of the jiharynx, and mesial to the middle and lower con- strictors. Origin, the styloid process of the temporal bone. Direction, down- ward and inward. Insertion, the upper and hind borders of the thyroid cartilage, mingling with the palato-pharyngeus. Action, lifting the pharynx and larynx. Nerve, the glosso-pharyngeal. The Tonsils (Fig. 746). In the recess formed by the divergence of the pillars of the palate on each side is a flattened, ovoid body, the tonsil (tonsilla) or almond {amygdala), whose712 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. mesial face can easily be seen, when the mouth is widely opened and the tongue depressed. Its position is internal to that of the angle of the jaw. Its external surface is attached to the upper constrictor by areolar tissue. Fig. 761.—M\iseles of tlie jjliarynx, viowod from behind, together with the associated vessels and nerves. (Modified from Testut.) The tonsil is substantially a collection of lymph-nodules, with a distinct ca])- sule on its attached surface, and a continuation of the mucosa of the pharynx on its exposed surfoce, wliich is irregularly pitted with blind holes of varying size. Mucous glands open into these pits, and with tlieir secretion are mingled great numbers of lymph-cells, many of wliich appear in the spittle as salivary cor- puscles. THE GULLET. Between the levels of the upper border of the sixth cervical vertebra and that of the eleventh thoracic—a distance of about ten inches—extends the gullet or (esophagus (''carrying eatables"), the tube connecting the ])harynx and theTHE GULLET. 713 stomach (Fig. 762). Its direction is nearly that of the part of tlie spinal column near which it runs—sliglitly curved with its concavity forward. It presents slight lateral bends of no practical importance. It gradually expands at its lower part, and then is a little constricted at its passage through the diajihragm. Excejjting during the passage through it of distending substances, its condition is one of col- lapse, its dorsal and ventral walls being in contact, its mucosa folded into longitudinal rusjpe, and the bore of the tube oblitei'ated. The mucosa, like that in tlie succeeding portions of the alimentary canal, is limited in its depths by a muscularis mucosje. Its free surface has a stratified, flattened epi- thelium. The areolar coat is thick, and contains many mucous glands, which open into the lumen. The muscular tunic dis- plays a peculiar transition from the striated variety, which alone is seen in the pharynx, to the smooth, which is the only kind t)ccurrino; in the stomach. For a short distance from the beginning we find only striped muscle ; then for a little way a mix- ture of the two varieties; and, finally, in the lower half, notliing but the muscular tissue of organic life. The inner layer is circular, the outer longitudinal. The gul- let is connected with the structures in the midst of which it lies by a sheath of areo- lar tissue. FIRST THORA- CIC VERTEBRA THE ABDOMINAL CAVITY. TWELFTH THORA CIC VERTEBRA The portion of the alimentary canal which is below the diaphragm is contained in the abdomen, and it is desirable to study this cavity before pi'oceeding to the consid- eration of the viscera which it holds. The boundary between the thorax and abdomen is made by the diaphragm. This muscle forms a dome over the belly-cavity, its highest part rising to the level of the junction of the fourth costal cartilage with the sternum, and, consequently, the abdomen greatly encroaches upon the space, which a superficial inspection of the thoracic cage would lead one to assign to the chest. The cubic capacity of the thorax is very small compared with that of the abdomen, largely owing to this invasion of its (expected) territory. The lower end of the abdomen is limited by the structures which clothe the inner surface of the bony pelvis. Muscles form the bulk of the front and lateral walls, and a good part of the dorsal, the last being completed by a portion of the vertebral column. It has a serous lining, outside of which is a fibrous or areolar tunic, wliich is variously named in different parts. (See Fasciis, pages 359-361.) Apertures in its walls give passage to numerous organs : the aorta, inferior vena cava, oesopha- gus, and various nerves, above ; the rectum, urethra, spermatic cords or round ligaments of the uterus, the vessels and nerves of the lower limbs, and, in the Fio. 762.—Oisophagus and stomach in their natural relations to the vertebral column and the aorta. (Testut.)714 THE ORGAXS OF DIGESTION. female, the vagina, below; besides which should be mentioned the openings of the oviducts (Fallopian tubes) of the female. Regions of the Abdomen (Fig. 763). For generations it has been customary to divide the abdomen into nine regions for convenience of description : one near the centre, called umbilical, with a tnni- FiG. 763.—Regions of the abdomen, delimited by the author's method. (F. H. G.) bar on each side; above the umbilical, the epigastric ("upon the stomach"), with a hypochondriac (" under the cartilage") on each side ; and below the umbilical, the hypogadric (" under the stomach"), with an iliac on each side. The delimitation of these regions is not uniformly made by authors. The writer called attention to this fact and to the need of agreement among anatomists some years ago, and embodied his suggestions in a paper read to the Association of American Anatomists in 1892. Having seen no proposition which appears more reasonable and useful in the premises, he presents his plan here. A line is drawn around the body at the level of the anterior superior sj^inous processes of the ilium, and another at the lowest /joint of the tenth costal cartilages. These lines stand for the peripheries of horizontal planes, which completely divide the abdomen into three sections. Each section is cut into three by a ver- tical plane running ventro-dorsally through the middle of each inguinal (Poupart's) liganicnf. These are superficially indicated on the front of tlie abdomen in Fig. 763. The advantages of this method are that it brings the umbilicus wliolly into the umbilical region, which is rather rarely the case, when the lower horizontal is drawn at the level of the iliac crests ; that the guide to the ujiper horizontal is a prominence easily found through the integuments, and that this plane divides the part of the abdomen above the lower horizontal more equally than does that715 THE STOMACH. ii?;ually given ; and, finally, that the perpendicular plane on each side starts from a prominent landmark, and fairly apportions each of the three zones. The abdominal cavity is lined with the largest of the serous membranes, the peritoneum. At various places this membrane is reflected from the wall onto the contained viscera, to some of which it furnishes a slight, to others a considerable, and to others still a practically cfmiplete outer tunic, thus justifying its name, which means literally something " stretched around." Until the anatomy of the abdominal viscera is learned, a description of the peritoneum cannot be appre- ciated ; and, therefore, further consideration of the subject will be deferred until the discussion of the digestive organs has been completed. THE STOMACH. The gullet perforates the diaphragm, and almost immediately ends in the stomach {stoiaachus, gadei-), the tube expanding into a great bag (Fig. 764). The Fig. 764.—Stomach and duodenum, the liver and most of the intestines haying been removed. (Testut.i stomach is just beneath the diaphragm and behind the anterior abdominal wall, in the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions. Its shape and attitude are worthy of especial attention. It looks somewhat like a pear with the large end up, and the small end bent sidewise to the right. Its front and rear surfaces are moderately convex. Looking at it from before, it is seen that a continuation of the right margin of the oesophagus downward coincides with the upper two-thirds of the right border of the stomach, the remaining third of this border bending sharply to the i-ight and l:)ackward, thus completing what is known as the small curvature. The great curvature begins at the end of the gullet on the opposite side, making a somewhat acute angle with the left border of this tube. It then716 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. passes upward and to the left to the diaj^hragm, is in contact with the under sur- face of the latter for some distance, sweeps downward in a generous curve with its convexity to the left, continues in a somewhat flattened line to the right, is here a little indented, and hnally turns abruptly up and back, terminating at the outlet-end, close to the small curvature. Particular attention is called to the following focts : the genei'al direction of the long axis of the stomach is vertical; the small curvature faces mostly to the right; the great curvature is directed mainly to the left ; the aperture of entrance (oesoj^hageal opening) is but slightly to the left of the middle line of the Ijody, and looks downwai'd ; the hole of exit (intestinal opening) is on a lower plane, close to the mid line, and looks directlj' backward—a point uot well shown in Fig. 764. The curvatures or borders are the lines of reflection of the peritoneum. The preceding statements apply to the organ when it is not distended ; but, when it is distended, some differences are observed. Then the great curvature is tilted toward the front, the small end is moved two inches or more toward the right, and the pressure on the diaphragm may be such as to interfere seriously with the freedom of action of the heart, Avhich is situated in part immediately over the stomach on the upper surfi^ce of the diaphragm. The large end of the stomach is called, on account of its nearness to the heart, the enrdiac end, or simply the carclia ; the small is named the pyloric end, from the pylorus, presently to be described. The before-mentioned indentation of the great curvatui'e near the lower end is a part of a slight constriction, and the portion of the cavity between it and the intestinal opening is called the antrum ■pyloricum ("pyloric cave"). The Tunics of the Stomach. The tunics of the stomach conform to the rule previously stated. The Serosa.—Passing from the ti-ansverse fissure of the liver are two layers of serous membrane, which constitute the gadro-hepniie ("stomach-liver") omentum. After continuing downward for about two inches, they reach the small curvature of the stomach, where they divide, clothe respect- ively the front and back surfaces of this viscus, meet along the great curvature, unite again, and continue downward to help form the great omentum. A very narrow strip of uncovered surface may be found along each of the two curvatures, indicating respectively the places of separation and reunion of the peritoneal lamelhe. The adhesion of the serosa is closest at the centre of the front and back surfaces, but gradually becomes looser toward the borders. The Muscular Coat has two com- plete layers—an outer, longitudinal, and an inner, circular (Fig. 765). Besides these two distinct layers some oblique fasciculi are found, internal to the circular. This criss- cross arrangement of the layers contributes greatly to the strength of the stomach- walls. The circular layer increases in thickness toward the small end, and there is such an augmentation of its fibres around the intestinal opening as to con- FiG. 705.—Diagram to sliow t.lu' diruction of the fibres in the three muscular layers. (Testut.)717 THE SMALL INTESTINE. stitute a thick, circular sphincter, called the pyJoruH ("gate-keeper"), the side t()wai"d the stomach sloping, and that toward the bowel being abrupt. The aper- ture is the pi/lorie orifice (Fig. 766). The Areolar Coat, called also submucous and vascular, is loose, and its meshes are largely occupied with the vessels and nerves going to and from the coats between which it lies. The Mucous Membrane is thrown into irregtdar, longitudinal folds (/'»//«') wJien the organ is flaccid, but l)ecomcs smootli during distension. Its co'rium is mostly occupied by tubular glands, between which is tibrous tissue, containing cajiillaries and nerves ; and beneath these structures is a niuscularis mucosa;, which sends some of its fibres up between these follicles. The surface epithelium consists of a single layer of columnar cells, many of which are goblet. The glands are all tubular depressions of tlie surface, and their length is l)ut a trifle less than the thickness of the membrane. They are of two varieties, one, the cfirdiae glands or proper gastric glands, being found in the large end and middle third of the stomach ; and the other, the pyhrie f/hoult, in the region of the small end. They are arranged in little groups, which are bounded by minute elevations of the surface. The cardiac glands (Fig. 767) are simple tubular depressions, consisting of a duct, neck, and fundus or body. The duct is short, has a wide mouth, and is lined with columnar epithelium, a continuation of that u])on the general, free surface. Its cells overlap one another a little. In the neck the cells become short and broad. The fundus is wavy or spiral, and is furnished with two kinds of cells : the centr(d, rather conoidal, and more numerous ; the pcwictal, larger, usually not reaching the SURFACE OF MUCOSA DUODENUr/l "v-t„L SEROUS COAT LONGITUDINAL MUSC. CtRCULAR MUSC LA', e — AREOLAR COAT ■MUCOUS COAT Fig. 766.—Vertical section at the junction of the stomach and duodenum, Fig. 707.—Cardiac iiland in showing the disposition ol the coats, bemidiagrammatic. (Tcstut.) longitudinal seciion. (F.H. G.) bore of the tube, but communicating with it through minute cracks between the overlying central cells. The pyloric glands have a very wide and deep duct, into the bottom of which open several divisions (funduses), which are wavy or even tortuous. The epithe- lium is in all parts very similar to that on the surface of the mucosa. Between the divisions is the true corium material, and at frequent intervals are irregular masses of lymph-adenoid material. THE SMALL INTESTINE. The small intestine (infesfinum temte) (Fig. 779) is that portion of the alimen- tary canal which begins on the distal side of the pyloric valve, and ends on the proximal side of the ileo-ca;cal. In other words it extends between stomach718 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. above and large intestine below. Its average length is twenty feet or more ; and, as it is all (contained in the abdominal cavity, which also lodges many other organs, it is necessarily subjected to numerous bendings, and conse(|uentlv, when the anterior wall of the belly is laid open, presents the ap|)earance of inextricably ta n gled con volutions. From above downward it gradually diminishes in size, thickness of wall, and comjjlexity of structure. Its diameter near its beginning is nearly two inches, but becomes steadily less, and is hardly an inch at its lower end. Its loss in structural elaborateness will be described in detail later on. It occupies the umbilical and hypogastric regions and the adjacent portions of the lumbar, being to a large extent within the area bounded l)y the colon. Parts of the Small Intestine.—It is usually described as consisting of three parts—the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. The first of these is limited by distinct natural boundaries, and is strikingly diiferent from the rest in other respects. The second and third are not thus differentiated, and tliere is no manifest advantage in continuing the attempt to distinguish them from one another. But as the names are fiistened in our nomenclature, they will be used to designate respectively tlie uppermost and lowermost portions of the small intestine distal to the duodenum, without the suggestion of a definite line or even region of demarcation between them ; and the name jcjuno-ilevm will be em- l>loyed to indicate the continuous, undivided Avhole which the two constitute. Tunics of the Small Intestine. ^FREE BORDER The small intestine has four tunics, which corresi)ond in general character and arrangement with those of the stomach. The Serous Coat (Fig. 768) furnishes a practically complete covering for the whole tube, excepting the duodenum, which is but scantily clad with it. This membrane is reflected from the dorsal wall of the abdomen, runs forward for a distance, which varies in different parts, reaches the intestine, which it closely enwraps, and, returning almost to its line of first contact, turns toward its parietal origin, keeping in practical aj)position with its f)utgoing layer, until it arrives at its stai'ting- point, where it is reflected tt)ward the opposite side of the body. Thus is formed not only a snug inves- titure for the gut, but also a double-layered mooring, fastened atone end to the liind wall of the abdomen, at the other to the intestine, and permitting large freedom of movement. This structure is the mesen- tery ("in the midst of the intestines"), and between its two layers are the arteries, veins, lynijihatic ves- sels, and nerves required by the bowel, a great number of lymph-nodes, and usually a quantity of adipose (Fig. 769). The proximal (attached, parie- tal, dorsal) border of the mesentery extends from the left side of the second lumbar vertel)ra to the right mesocolon, its direction being from above downward and to the right, and its measurement eight or ten inches. The distal (free, intestinal, ventral) border is vastly longer, being frilled out to the length of the jejuno-ileum, and thus sug- gestive of a widely opened fan. Its sides are right or superior, and left or inferior. Its lensrth is from the attached to the free border, and varies from one inch to ten inches. The Muscular Coat lies just Avithin the serous, which covers it perfectly, except for a very narrow strip between the lines of attachment of the mesenteric layers. This bare area marks what is called the attached border of the intestine, HIND WALL OF ABDOMEN Fig. 768.—Diasrram to .show the relation of the peritonevim (broken line) to the greater part of the small intestine.719 THE SMALL LNTESTINE. and the exactly opposite portion of the gnt is known as the free border. The outer layer of the muscular tunic is complete, thin, composed of bundles arranged lengthwise, and thickest in the region of tlie free border. Tlie inner layer, also, is complete, but is thicker, and its fasciculi are transverse, forming a circular layer. This coat thins out gradually as the intestine approaches its lower end. The Areolar Coat.—Inside of the muscular is the areolar (submucous, vascu- lar) coat, in whose meshes are networks of blood-vessels, lymphatics and neryes. Fig. 769.—a loop of small intestino, showiiiu'tlif iiimle nl' distribution of the arteries. (Testut.) The Mucous Coat.—Finally, we reach the mucous membrane, which is attached by its outer aspect to the areolar tunic, and presents a free surface to the bore of the tube. Its corium contains lymphoid tissue, with many leucocytes, and a rich supply of vessels and nerves. Outside of this is a distinct muscularis nuicosfe, with an inner plate of circular, and an outer plate of longitudinal fibres. Inside OF LIEGERKUHN Fig. 770.—Free surface of the mucous membrane of the small intestine, showing villi, solitary glands, and openings of the intestinal glands. Semidiagrammatic. (Testut.) of the corium is a basement membrane, surmounted by a single layer of prismatic, columnar, epithelial cells, which are characterized by the presence of a delicate plate on the free end of each, marked with vertical lines. Among these epithelial cells are many of the goblet variety. The Villi (Fig. 770).—A peculiarity, which distinguishes the mucous mem- lirane of the small intestine is the presence everywhere of minute projections,720 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. called villi, which are so abundant as to give a velvety appearance to the surface. They are organs of absorption. Their number has been variously estimated at from four to ten millions. In the upper part of the intestine they are so closely set as to seem to leave no space between. The tallest are scarcely one twenty- fifth of an inch in height. In shape they are commonly cylindrical ; but conical, filiform, mammillary, and lamellar varieties are observed. A lymph-vessel (lac- teal) occuj^ies the centre of the villus, a plexus of capillary blood-vessels surrounds this, a few threads of smooth muscle run up from the dejiths of the membrane, all these are embedded in a mass of nucleated cells, and the wdiole villus is cov- ered by the columnar epithelium already mentioned. The Valvulss Conniventes.—Another feature which characterizes this tunic and is observed from an inch or two below the pylorus to within a foot or more of the end of the gut, is the jiresence of transverse folds of mucous membrane, each strengthened internally by a projection from the areolar coat. They are called valvulce conniventes (" winking-valves"). Unlike the rugse of the stomach, which are effaced when that organ is filled, they are not obliterated by the dis- tension of the intestine. This permanency is due to several causes. First, these projections are not produced by a wrinkling of the membrane during relaxation, as are the ridges of the stomach, but are actual outgrowths of the mucosa, giving it an immense increase of surface, even during distension. Second, the valves do not extend completely around the circumference, but only a quarter, half, or (rarely) three-quai'ters way round, one considerably overlajiping the lines of its next neighbors, and thus guarding against the effacement which might occur during extreme stretching, if each of them described a complete circle. In other words, an internal pressure, which might be able to unfold a perfect ring, is thwarted by a device which distributes that force to several sepa- rate segments and to a considerable extent of surface. And, third, the transverse arrangement of the valves is more favorable to their continuance than the longitudi- nal would be, as the stretching of the tube from within takes place almost altogether laterally and but slightly lengthwise, and, consequently, these folds are subjected to hardly any strain in these circumstances. The valvulfe conniventes are somewhat crescentic in shape, may be as much as a fourth or third of an inch deep in the middle, and diminish in depth toward the ends, which often bifurcate, and finally shade olf into the surrounding sui'face. There are usually eight or nine hundred of them. Glands in the Mucosa.—Almost the entire substance of the coriuni is occupied by tubular depressions, which are lined with epitheliimi, very similar to that on the exposed surface, being columnar with frequent inter- ruptions by goblet cells. These are the intestinal glands, more frequently called the follicles or crypts of Licher- hi'ilin (Fig. 771). Their secretion is chiefly intestinal juice, though they furnisli also some of the mucus, which is always present. Lymph-structures in the Mucosa.—Embedded in the mucous coat and often encroaching upon the areolar are little globular or ovoid bodies, one-twelfth inch or less in diameter, which are structurally closely related to the lymph-nodes, being composed of a multitude of leucocytes, held together by an adenoid reticu- lar framework, and drained hy lymphatic vessels. They are sprinkled rather uniformly throughout the length of the viscus, though in some spots they are scarce, in others very numerous. They are the solitary lymph-nodnlcs, but they are most frequently called solitary glands (Fig. 772), thougli no more entitled to the name than are the nodes, which occur in the course of lymphatic vessels, Fig. 771.—Intestinal in longitudinal section, tut.) gland (Tes-THE SMALL INTESTINE. 721 having no secreting apparatus. We may fairly regard them as the picket-line of the great army of nodes, which occupy tlie mesentery. Fig. 772.—Mucosa of small intestine in ideal vertical cross-section. (Testnt, after Heitzmann.) Having now considered the features common to tlie whole of the small intes- tine, we will study each portion of it in detail. THE DUODENUM. The duodenum (Fig. 773) diifers from the jejuno-ileum in many respects. It is much wider, thicker in wall, more dee])ly situated, more complex in structure, contains certain glands peculiar to it, and is the ])art into which the ducts from the liver and pancreas discharge ; but it is much shorter, far less mobile, has only a scanty serous covering, and has none of the aggregated lymph-nodules. Its length is ten inches or less, its width two inches or less. It extends in a tortuous course from the pyloric opening to the point where the mesentery first embraces the gut, that is, at the left side of the second luml^ar vertel)ra. It is conveniently divided into four portions, of which the first, about two inches long, runs back, up, and to the riglit under the quadrate lobe of the liver to the neck of the gall- bladder ; the second descends for about three inches along the right edge of the head of the pancreas, to the level of the lower border of the third lumbar ver- tebra ; the third passes to the left horizontally two inches and a half, which brings it to the middle of the vertebral column, where it is crossed by the superior mesenteric vessels; and the fourth ascends on the left of the column and ends in the jejuno-ileum, which descends from the line of junction very abruptly. Thus, the duodenum, after describing an irregular curve, suggestive of an imperfect circle, almost returns to its starting-point. Its serous coat is incomplete and irregularly applied. The first part is covered like the stomach ; the second is clothed in front; the third above, below, 46THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 722 Gastric artery Lower end r>f (Esophagus Calinc axis Portal vein Hepatic duct Cystic d!ic(— Hepatic artery— liight suprarenal ^ capsule Pyloric orifice night gastro-epiploic artery Superior mesenteric vein apennatic vessels Inferior mesenteric artery Fig 773—The duodenum, its four parts marked a, b, c, d. The liver is lifted up; the greater part of the stomach is removed, broken lines indicating its former position, (Testut,) and in front; the fourtli in front and partly at the sides. The second part is closely adherent to the front of the right kidney and the head of the pancreas,THE SMALL INTESTINE. 723 and includes in its wall the terminal portions of the common bile-duct and the pancreatic duct; the third part is attached to the vena cava inferior, the aorta, and the right crus of the diaphragm ; and the fourth is fastened to the left side of the vertebral column, the left kidney and its vessels. The relations of the peritoneum to each of the parts of the duodenum will be seen easily by consult- ing the diagrams. Figs. 774-777. The lirst part is somewhat movable, but the others are so bound down by the peritoneum and their close connections with other structures as to be practically fixed in their places. Still another agency contributes to this immobility—the suspensory muscle, a delicate, flat, flbro- FiG. 776.—Diagram of the third part of the PiG. 777.—Diagram of the fourth part of the duodenum, duodenum, to show its peritoneal relations. to show its peritoneal relations. muscular band, which starts from the left crus of the diaphragm, and runs down- ward to its insertion on the duodeno-jejunal angle and the dorso-mesial aspect of the fourth part of the duodenum. The valinike conn'wentes are particularly well developed in this bowel. In the areolar coat ai'e situated many spheroidal, compound, racenn^se glands, which open upon the free surface. They form an almost complete layer under the true mucosa at the up2)er part of the duodenum. They are peculiar to this portion of the small intestine, and hence are called duodenal glands, although they are often known as the glands of Brunner. About the middle of the concave side of the descending (second) part is the comnKjn opening of the pancreatie and bile ducts. THE JEJUNO-ILEUM. The principal features of the small intestine having been presented, the jejuno-ileum, which is the main part of it, requires but little special attention. Beginning at the termination of the duodenum, it is thrown into convolutions so numerous and so irregular in their disposition that it is impossible to lay down a rule by which sight alone can distinguish a proximal from a distal portion. However, in general there is some probability that its proximal half is located above and at the left, its distal below and at the right. To determine whether a knuckle of intestine is proximal or distal to another, one is assisted by digital examination of the ])art of the mesentery belonging to each. The convolution whose mesentery is the higher is nearer the stomach. This method not only is more expeditious, but it prevents the injury which the bowels may sufter from prolonged manipulation. The last portion of the jejuno-ileum reaches the large intestine from the left and below.THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 724 The jejuno-ileum begins with a diameter of nearly an inch and a half, with closely set villi, long, deep, and numerous valvulje conniventes, and a fairly thick muscular coat; it ends with a cross-measurement of iiardly an inch, with scanty villosities, no connivent valves, and a thinner musculature. In a single direction only has it made a gain—the addition of the aggregated li/mph-norlu/efi, otherwise called the agminated glands and the jJ^tches of Peyer(Fig. 778). These \ _^ ^„ Fig. 778.—Aggregated lyiiipli-iiuilule d'eyers patch). (Ttstut.) are local accumulations of bodies in all essential respects like the solitary lym])h- nodules, which are scattered throughout the length of the small intestine—they are colonies of lymph-nodules. They produce scarcely any elevation of the sur- face, but are not crossed by connivent valves ; they are always situated at the free border of the tube, with their greater diameter lengthwise of it; are rarely found in the upper half, and become larger and more numerous as the large intes- tine is a])proached ; vary in size from a half inch in both directions to a width of about an inch and a length of ten inches, or possibly more ; are thirty or more in number on the average ; and tend to disappear gradually after middle life, so that in old people they may be recognizable only as areas of discoloration. They are the seat of the lesion in enteric (typhoid) fever. The blood-supply of the jejuno-ileum is derived from the superior mesenteric artery, whose l)ranches course lietween the two layers of the mesentery, are dis- tributed beneath the serous coat, anastomose on the free border, and perforate the muscular layers, forming a rich plexus in the areolar tunic, from which the raucous and muscular are furnished with their supply of arterioles and capillaries. The veins correspond. Ordinary Jiimphatics, originating in the other parts, are joined by those from the villi (lacteals), and leave by way of the mesentery to empty into the receptaculum. Tlie nerves come from the superior mesenteric plexus, accomjiany the vessels, and form one network between the layers of the muscular tunic, another in the areolar. Their exact terminations are not understood. The duodenum gets a part of its arterial blood fn»m the superior mesenteric, and the rest through branches of the hepatic. THE LARGE INTESTINE. The largeness which gives a name to the next grand division of the alimen- tary canal is in its transverse, not in its longitudinal, diameter ; for it is hardly more than a quarter as long as the small intestine, but is much wider, being two and a half inches across in its broadest part. The large intestine {intedimim crassum) (Fig. 779) is divided for description into three parts—csecum, colon, and rectum—and has so little mobility that the725 THE LARGE INTESTINE. location and relations of each of these segments are fairly constant—a respect in which it materially ditlers from the small intestine. It begins in the right and lower portion of the abdomen, passes upward and backward to the under surface of the liver, thence across the belly to the spleen, Fig. 779.—The stomach and intestines, front view, the great omentum having been removed, and the liver turned up and to the right. The dotted line shows the normal position of the anterior border of the liver. The dart points to the foramen of Winslow. (Testut.) from this point downward and forward to the left and lower ])art of the abdomen, here makes a number of curves, and finally plunges into the pelvis at its back part, and ends close to the perineum, near the inner opening of the anal canal. Tunics of the Large Intestine. Its wall is thicker than that of the small intestine. Its tunics are four in number, and have the same names and the same order of arrangement as do those of the stomach and small intestine. The serous coat of each portion will be described in connection with it; the areolar presents no peculiarities requiring especial mention. The Muscular Coat (Fig. 780) of all but the last few inches of the length is remarkable in that its outer, longitudinal layer, instead of being disposed in an726 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. unbroken sheet, as is that of the small intestine, is almost wholly gathered into three equal, ribbon-like bands (tcenia coli), one-third of an inch, or a little more, in width, which are placed length- MUSCULAR BAND wise at equidistant intervals, the small remaining portion being spread in a deli- cate lamina over the residue of the tube. The inner, circular layer, like the sub- jacent areolar and mucous tunics, forms an even tube from end to end ; but these outer strips of muscle are nuich shorter than this musculo-arcolo-mucous tube, and, as their extremities are attached to its corresponding extremities, there neces- sarily ensues a great puckering included in their grasp. Between the bands are deep, transverse creases, each bounded by prominent bulges ; and an inspection of the bore of the tube shows a sharp ridge ( -pUca sigmoidea), corresponding to each depression of the outer surface, and a large recess {hcmsfriim), collocated with each external protrusion. This saccula- tion and the cause of it are characteristic. Whenever one is in doubt as to wdiether a given knuckle belongs to large or small intestine, the presence or absence of the longitudinal ribbons will settle the question at once. Although the ridges, which encroach upon the lumen of this gut, look like overgrown valvulas conniventes, their structural character is radically different. A connivent valve (Fig. 781) is merely a fold of mucous membrane, strength- Fio. 780.—Segment of large intestine, showing the characteristic features of its structure. (.Testut.) MUCOUS COAT /\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/AREOLAR COAT n INTERNAL MUSCULAR LAYER EXTERNAL MUSCULAR LAYER "SEROUS COAT Fig. 781.—Diagram to show the structure of the valvulae conniventes. Compare with next cut. (F. H. G.) ened by a thin ]ilate of areolar tissue ; but a plica sigmoidea (Fig. 782) is the result of an infolding of everything inside of the muscular I'ibbons. Remove mucous coat areolar coat jnternal muscular layer external muscular layer "serous coat Fig. 782.—Diagram to sliow the structure of the plicas sigmoidese. (F. H. G.) Compare with the preceding cut. these bands from the bowel, and straighten it, and the plicae will disappear, leav- ing an even, uninterrupted bore ; but no such result will ensue, if you dissect off the longitudinal lamina of muscle from the small intestine : the little valves will remain exactly as before.THE LARGE INTESTINE. Til The mucous membrane is paler, somewhat firmei*, and much simpler than that of the small intestine : there are no connivent valves, no villi, no glands of Brun- ner, no patches of Peyer. But there are many so-called solitary glands, though they are less numerous than in the upper bowel; and the thickness of the mucosa is occupied by simple, tubular glands, lai'ger than those met with previously, and containing a much greater proportion of goblet cells. In- deed, in not infrequent cases, it is found that the majority of the epithelial cells are of this variety. THE C^CUM. The cfficura {ccecns, " blind") (Figs. 783, 785) is thus named because it is a pouch, a no- thoroughfare. Its blind end points downward, its open end upward, passing directly into the colon, of which this gut seems to be the begin- ning, justifying its old name, caput coli, " the head of the colon." The line of separation between them is at the level of the opening from the small intestine, on the left side and behind, about two and a half inches from the lower end. Here is the Ueo-ccecal or ileo-coUc valve, which protects the ileum against the back- ward flow of faeces from the large intestine. If the extremity of the ileum was simply attached to the margin of a circular hole of its own diameter in the side of the large intestine, there would be a frequent reflux from the latter, and the Fig. 783.—Cavity of the csecum, its front waU having been cut away. The ileo-ca'Cnl valve and the opening of'the appendix are shown. (Testut) COLON SEROUS COAT EXTERNAL LAYER 1 MUSCULAR INTERNAL LAYER j" COAT AREOLAR COAT MUCOUS COAT MUCOUS COAT AREOLAR COAT INTERNAL LAYER EXTERNAL LAYER SEROUS COAT 1 MUSCU l(" COA- LAR COAT Fig. 784.—Diagram of a vertical section of the ileo-CEecal valve, showing its structure. (F. H. G.) lower ileum would be only a receptacle for excrement. But, at the junction of the two guts, the ileum is flattened from above downward, and the serous coat and the outer layer of the muscular coat are so shortened that the otljer tunics are thrust into the cavity of the large intestine, forming two lips, an upper and a lower, with;THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 728 a horizontal cleft, like a button-hole, between them (Fig. 784). The permanency of the lips is maintained by the shortness of tlie outer muscular layer. The ileum enters tlie large intestine obliquely from below ; and thus, when there is an accumu- lation of feces in the caecum, the two lips will be pressed together, and regurgita- tion prevented ; but there is nothing in the conformation of the valve to interfere with the ])assage of material in the other direction. From each commissure of the lips extends a ridge, which, after going part way round the bowel, shades off into the general surface. Upon that aspect of these lijis which is contributed by the small intestine are villi; that which is furnished by the large intestine is devoid of them. The Appendix. Springing from the rear of the etecum toward its inner aspect is a blind tube, about as thick as an ordinary lead-pencil, and varying from three to six (or even more) inches in length, called the appemllr veriniforwh cax-l (" the worm-like appendage of the blind gut") (Fig. 785). It has a me- sentery for about half its length ; its serous, muscular, and areolar coats are similar to those of the small intestine; its mucous coat has intestinal glands, and so many so-called soli- tary glands as to constitute a nearly complete layer in and just beneath the mucosa. Its attitude varies enormously : it may stand up behind the colon, hang down behind the cfecuni, lie forward toward the surface of the belly, curve to the outside, or twine around the ileum. Its development is pecidiar. The cfecum is relatively much longer in the foetal than in the adult condition. At birth it is a long cone, hardly suggesting the shape which it finally assumes. The portion nearest the colon grows and develojxs eciually ^v•ith the latter; but the remainder ceases to develoji, and, being vastly outgrown and overshadowed by the upper por- tion, becomes an appendage to what was originally the smaller jiart of the blind gut. We see, therefore, that this Avorm-like organ has I'eached its present condition as the result of ai-rested development, and not of degeneration. The three rihl)ons of muscle pi'cviously described begin at the attached end of the appendix. One runs up close behind the ileo-ca;cal junction ; another curves downward, inward, and then upward on the front; and the third turns downAvard, outward, and then upward. From their position they are called respectively postero-internal, anterior, and postero-external. The appendix would be at the lowest extremity of the csecum, in the adult as it is in the ffjetal condition, but for the bulging of the front part of the latter downward, and especially outward, a change which In'ings the opening of the appendix behind and toward the middle line of the body. Tlie Cfecum has a complete investment of serous membrane, but it has no mesentery. Fig. 78-").—Tlio c;i-c'uin, ilorso-mesial view, showing the ileura-side of the ileo-csecal valve, and the beginning of tlie three mus- cular ribbons. (Testut.) THE COLON. The colon com])rises all but a mere span of the large intestine. It diminishes in size gradually from its beginning to its end. It presents four well-marked729^ THE LARGE INTESTINE. segments : the asccndiug colon, the transverse coh)n, the descencling colon, and the sigmoid colon. Its serous membrane is marked at irregular intervals along the line of one of the muscular bands by little tassel-like protrusions, the appendices epiploiocB ("omental a])pendages"), containing adipose tissue. They do not appear until after childhood, and are pronounced in proportion to the fatness of the individual. The Ascending Colon. The ascending colon (Fig. 780) begins at the level of the ileo-c£ecal valve, passes upward and backward, and ends at the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, where it is received in the colic impression. It has no inherent peculiarities to distinguish it from other segments except in its serous tunic. The disposition of this coat determines the mobility or fixity of the part. Gen- erally only the front and sides are clad in peritoneum, which is reflected laterally to the abdominal wall ; but not very infrequently a distinct mesentery, here called nscending mcmcolon, is found. In the former case this i)art is immovable ; in the latter its mobility is regulated by the length of its mesentery. The Transverse Colon. The transverse colon (Fig. 786) begins at the hepatiG jlexuve, which is the angle made between it and the preceding portion, and passes almost horizontally to a nearly corresponding point on the left side, where it terminates in a bend, the splenic flexure, between it and the descending colon. In cross- ing the trunk, however, it does not go in a straight line, but, keeping close to the anterior wall, describes a curve with its concavity backward, and displays thrice the length that it would, if it ran directly from side to side. It often sags a little in the middle. This part of the colon is ])rovided ^vith a mesentery, the transverse mesocolon, which varies greatly in length in difterent subjects. Its proximal border is fastened to the hind wall of the abdomen, its distal is attached to the gut along the line of the postero-inferior muscular band. The antero-inferior band is decorated with appen- dices epiplo'icix", and the superior is the base Fig. 786.—Ascending and transverse from which dcijcud the liiud layers of the great colons, viewed from the right side. (Drawn . j a from the His cast. F. H. G.) omentum. The Descending Colon. The descending colon is almost the exact counterpart of the ascending ; but it is a little smaller in bore, a trifle longer—the great thickness of the liver pre- venting the ascending colon from reaching quite as high a plane as that from which the descending starts—and somewhat farther back in its upper portion. It ends at the level of the crest of the ilium—an arbitrary and conventional limit, there being no inherent, natural mark of separation between it and the next division. Finally, it is hardly ever furnished with a mesentery, and its hind surface is generally bare of serous membrane.THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 730 The Sigmoid Colon. The sigmoid colon (Figs. 787-7iS!») is often called the sigmoid flexure ; but as the term " flexure" is used to designate the bends between the horizontal and the two vertical jwrtions—mere angles in, and not parts of, the tube—it is eonfusint;- to have the same name applied to a ])or- tion of the bowel, which, while the seat of complicated flexions, includes a consid- erable length of the intestine. " Sigmoid cohm" signifies a part of this intestine, whose form is so tortuous as to suggest the DESCENDING COLON Fig. 787.—Sigmoid colon, front view. Semidiagram- matic. (Testut.) Fig. 788.—Sigmoid colon, dorsal (Drawn from tlie His cast. F. H. G.) Greek letter sigma, and seems, on the whole, to be the best of its numerous titles. The Limits of the Sigmoid Colon.—The sigmoid colon is the most movable and the most variable of the divisions of the large intestine. It is continuous below with the rectum, and most authors fix the dividing line between the two opposite the joint of the left hip-bone with the sacrum. But the result of many careful observations shows that, while the large intestine cros.ses this articulation in some cases, in the majority this condition does not obtain. Even if the classical description were in acccu'dance with the fact, there would seem to be little wisdom in separating these two territories of intestinal surface by this extraneous and purely arbitrary boundary, thus depriving the sigmoid colon of a portion of intestine exactly like its major part in structure, and bestowing it upon the rectum, from which it materially differs. A few recent writers, recognizing the expediency of adopting the intrinsic dividing line, which nature has established, have dis- carded the extrinsic and artificial boundary, and confine the application of the name "rectum" to that portion of the liowel below the brim of the true pelvis which has no mesentery. This method is here adopted. The sigmoid colon (Fig. 787) begins on the plane of the crest of the left ilium, and thence usually passes down to within an inch and a half of the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament, bends sharply toward the middle line, crosses the psoas magnus muscle, dips into the cavity of the true pelvis, I'ises to the brim on the right side, and thence curves backward, downward and inward to about the third sacral vertebra at the median line, where it becomes continuous with the rectum. It is 14 or more inches long. For its uppermost three inches it has a serous covering on its front and sides only ; but below this it has a mesocolon in its entire length. The sigmoid mesocolon is much longer in the middle portions than toward the ends. The diameter of this part of the intestine is less than that of the preceding, and constantly, though gradually, diminishes toward its lower end. The three longitudinal bands are continued on the sigmoid colon for most of its course ; but, as the end is approached, those which are behind spread out andT6\ THE LARGE INTESTINE.732 THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION. unite into one, and at the last part the anterior lias extended sidewise, and joined its fellows, so that the rectum begins with a uniform outer layer of its muscular tunic. THE RECTUM. The rectum (Figs. 79], 792) begins at the point where the large intestine ceases to be provided with a mesentery, that is, in general, at the front of the third sacral vertebra in the middle line. Its name, which means " straight," is Fig. 791.—Sagittal sectiim of the lnwer part of a male trunk, the right segment. (Testut.) made less absurd by the adoption of our present plan of delimitation of the intes- tines in this region, than it was when this segment was made to start at the sacro- iliac joint; for then it was crooked from every point of view, while now, wlien looked at from in front, it comes near deserving its title. It occupies the middle line, and is divided into an np])er part, which is fur- nished with a covering of jieritoneum, and a lower, which is not. The upper part, about three inches long, extends from the third .sacral vertebra to the tip of the coccyx, and its shape conforms to the curve of these bones, to which it is attached behind. The loicer part, shorter than the ujiper, is continued with the same doi'soventral curve, and terminates in a forward pouch, which is close to the prostate gland in the male and to the lower part of the vagina in the female.THE LARGE INTESTINE. 733 If the lower opening of the alimentary canal were made at the end of this pouch, and in the line of its curve, the anus would be situated in the male just back of the attachment of the scrotum and in the female near the vaginal entrance. The curve of the rectum, thus extended, would present an even sweep from its Fig. 792.—Sagittal section of the lower part of a female trunk, right segment. (Testut.) upper to its lower end. The opening, however, is not thus placed, but is located in the under side of the rectum, considerably to the rear of its blunt end. The part of the intestine in front of this opening is called the rectal ampuUn. The muscular coat is thick and strong at all points, and consists of two layers, the external being the longitudinal, the internal the circular, and both evenly spread. The serous tunic covers only a portion of the first part, and none of the second. This coat is most extensive in front, and is absent behind; and the line at which it leaves the gut slopes from above downward and forward very rapidly. It is reflected onto the bladder in the male, and the vault of the vagina and the uterus in the female. Where there is no serous coat the rectum is covered with strong areolar tissue. The mucous membrane is thicker and denser than that f)f the colon, and its hue deepens to a decided red in the lower part. It usually presents from one to three transverse folds, pUcce recti, which may go a third of the way around the lumen,734 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. and are thought to be ])ermanent. At the margin of tlie opening from the rectum to the anal canal are five or six small crescentic \oo])S, semihmar raJves {Y\g. 793), BULGES OF HEMOR- ANAL ISEMILUNAB VALUE RHOIDAL VEINS CANAL Fig. 793.—The anal canal and lower part of the rectum, laid open. (Testut.). separated by vertical ridges, the anal columns, upon which are little protrusions due to hemorrhoidal veins. THE ANAL CANAL. The anal canal (Figs.791-793) is the channel l)y which the rectum is placed in con- nection with the external surface of the body. It is an inch long, and runs down- ward and backward. It is lined with a membrane, wliich is mucous at the upper end, cutaneous at the lower, and a cross between the two elsewhere. Outside of this lining is an embracing muscle, the inicrnal .sphincter, composed of bundles of smooth fibres, arranged circularly. The lateral walls of the tube are in con- tact, and the lining membrane is disposed in small, longitudinal folds. The distal aperture is the anus, and around it the skin is dark brown, and puckered in radiating lines. GLANDS ACCESSOEY TO THE ALIMENTARY TUBE. In the development of the digestive canal bud-like processes grow out from it at several points, and ultimately become glands, furni.shing abundant secretions, which are discharged into the tube through ducts. These glands are the sali- vary, the pancreas, and the liver, and they will now be considered in the order given. THE SALIVARY GLANDS. The saliva, is a compound fluid, resulting from the mixture of the secretions of a number of glands, wliich discharge their products into the mouth. There are many vtneo)is glauds, two collections of which on each side require mention. One is at the hind part of the oral jiortion of the tongue, at the side and below, and is called the gland of Wchcr (Fig. 794, gl. w.). The other is beneath the lateral border of the tongue near the tip, and is known as the gland of Blandin (Fig. 794, GL. B. and Fig. 758). The so-called salivary corpuscles are derived from the tonsils. But the great volume of the saliva is furnished by three pairs of glands—the parotid, the submaxillary, and the sublingual. Of these the firstTHE LARGE INTESTINE. 735 produces a watery (serous) seci-etion, the third a ghiiry (mucous) one, and the second a fluid which is between the two in consistency. Fig. 794.—The salivary glands. The right half of the body of the mandible has been removed. GL. W., gland of Weber. GL. B., gland of Blandin. (Testut.) The Parotid Gland. The parotid ("near the ear") gland (Fig. 794) is the largest salivary gland, and is situated in the side of the face, extending from the zygoma to the angle of the mandible, and from the external auditory meatus forward upon the masseter, dipping deeply between the ramus and the mastoid, and pushing in between the pterygoid muscles. It is bound down by the masseteric fascia. The parotid (Stenson's) duct, by which the saliva is discharged, leaves the gland at its front border, and passes forward horizontally about three-quarters of an inch below the zygoma for two and a half inches. On reaching the anterior margin of the mas- seter, it turns mesially, and perforates all of the buccal layers, except the mucosa, on the outer surface of which it then courses forward until it reaches a point opposite the second upper molar tooth, where it pierces the membrane, and ends in a contracted orifice. Usually an appendage, the glandulo socia parotidis:, lies above the first part of the duct, and pours its secretion into it. In the substance of the parotid gland the external carotid artery makes its terminal division, the facial nerve radiates into its branches, and the temporo- maxillary vein, some lymph-nodes, and branches of the great auricular nerve are situated. The Submaxillary Gland. The submaxillary gland (Fig. 794) is al)0ut a third as large as the parotid. It is lodged in a chamber of the deep cervical fliscia, mostly below the body ofTHE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 736 the mandible, and upon the mesial side of its angle. The stylomandibular liga- ment runs between it and the parotid. Tlie facial artery grooves its back and upper border. The stihiiui.ri//ni\i/ <hu-i (^^'llarton's) is two inches long, runs for- ward and inward beneath and mesial to the sublingual gland to the side of the fnenum linguae, where it ends in a constricted orifice, close to its fellow of the opposite side. The Sublingual Gland. The sublingual (Fig. 794) is the smallest of the salivary glands. It lies in the gutter between the side of the tongue and the mandible, forming a long clevati(Mi beneath the mucous membrane of this part of the floor of the mouth. It has twenty or less ducts, which open for the most part directly above the gland, a few perhaps into the duct of the submaxillary. Structure of the Salivary Glands.—All of the salivary glands are of the com- pound racemose variety. They consist of lobules, which are held together by a variable amount of areolar tissue. Each lobule is an aggregation of acini ("grapes") or alveoli, which are the globular or tubular sacs, constituting the active part of the organ. These sacs are so nearly filleil with secreting ej)ithelial cells that the central channel is extremely small. The ducts nearest tlie acini are the radicles of the great stem which finally emerges from the gland. THE PANCREAS. The pancreas ("all flesh") (Figs. 795, 796) so closely resembles the parotid that it is sometimes called the abdominal salivary glaml. In some lower animals it is known as the sivcetbread. It lies across the front of the first and second Fig. 795.—The pancreas, ventral view. The superior mesenteric vessels are seen at the lower part of the head. (Drawn from the His cast. F. H. G.) lumbar vertebra?, and behind the stomach. It is covered anteriorly by the upper of the two layers, which go to form the transverse mesocolon. Its numerous lobes are held together so loosely that the whole mass is flabby, and can easily be moulded into shapes which are only remotely suggestive of the normal, which was not known until revealed by modern methods. It is a body of irregular form, flattened from before backward, and curved from right to left over the ver- tebral column. We recognize anterior and posterior surfaces of considerable extent, a very narrow upper surface, a lower border, and right and left extremi- ties. Its right end spreads out into a head, which fills the curve of the duodenum, to which it is firmly attached. Its left extremity is the tail, and reaches into the left hypochondriac region, even to the spleen. The intervening portion is the737 THE LARGE INTESTINE. body, and on its hind surface is marked off from the liead by a vertical depression, sometimes called the iutJc, in wliich are lodged the portal vein and the superior mesenteric vessels. All of the pancreas except the head is quite movable. The color of the gland is pinkish, its weight between two and three ounces, its Fig. 796.—The pancreas, dorsal view. The head is seen in the erabraoe of the duodenum. The portal vein and superior mesenteric artery lie behind the neck, (Drawn from the His cast. F. H. G.) length about six inches, its breadth two inches, and its th'ichness ahout half an inch. In infancy and early youth it grows rapidly, and in old age it undergoes atrophy. The Structure of the Pancreas (Fig. 797).—Structurally it is a coni])()und acinous gland, consisting of minute tubes, coiled up in little masses, called lobules. These are bunched together into lobes, and all the parts are held in more or less close relation to one another by areolar tissue, which spreads out over the surfaces every- where, and is also continuous with that of the immediate neighborhood. The secretory cells are commonly short cones, whose apices point toward the lumen of the tube. Besides these are certain cells of spindle-shaiie, lying against the free ends of the first mentioned, and protruding into the bore —called the centro-acinous cells. The excretory ducts at their beginning are fine tubes, consisting of a single layer of flattened e]iithelium, and lying in the delicate connective tissue. The union of these forms larger ducts, and these in turn join to make those of greater size, until a single great channel, the pancreatic duct, results. As the tubes increase in size, a outside of the epithelial, and this is thickest in the largest ducts. The pancreatic duct (Fig. 798) runs from the tail to the head, in the very centre of the gland, and then bends downward, leaves the pancreas, enters the wall of the duodenum in the concavity of its second portion, unites with the com- mon bile-duct, and the compound duct perforates tlie mucous membrane. An accessory duct is usually found, springing from the main duct at about the neck of the gland, and emptying iuto the duodenum an inch above the other. Development.—Tlie pancreas begins in the embryo as a sprout from the intes- tine, and this initial tube and its branches become the ducts of the mature organ, the true gland tissue budding from these little stalks as leaves form upon a twig. The vessels follow the interlolMilar connective tissue, and, as in all glands, are. supplied as capillaries to the secreting organism. 47 section of pancreatic acini. (Testnt.) fibrous coat is added738 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. The arteries of the pancreas are branches of the splenic and hepatic, and the inferior pancreatico-duodenalis from the superior mesenteric. Its nerves come from the solar plexus. Fig. 798.—Ducts of the pancreas. Part of the front wall of the duodenum is cut away. (Testut.) THE LIVER. The largest and most complex of the appendao^es of the alimentary tube is the liver {hepar). Starting as a bud from the duodenum in the second week of embryonic life, it grows with such rapidity that by the second month its weight is one-third of that of the entire b(xly. Though not retaining this relative magni- tude, it remains as the greatest gland of the body, and the most intricate. PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. Physiologically considered it is a community of minute livers, all substantially alike ; and thus a comprehension of one of them is sufficient to ])ut us in posse.'^- sion of the anatomical facts requisite for understanding the functions of the entire system. We are assisted in our study of the liver by comparing it to a great manu- facturing town, made up of a vast number of establishments, each of which is identical with every other in its organization, size, facilities for work, and the quality and quantity of its products. Formerly it was supposed that the only service of the liver was the formation of bile ; and although it is now known that the secretion of this fluid is only one of several offices performed by this organ, it is convenient for our present purpose to take bile-making as the tyj^e and representative of the entire group of functions. A Typical Lobule. We will begin by studying a single factory, that is, a separate lobule of the liver. It is an irregular, polyliedral body, a twelfth of an inch or less in diameter. As in every other true gland, the secreting cells are the essential part of theTHE LIVER. 739 lobule, and of these there is a multitude, packed together so closely that only enough room is left between them to permit the passage of the minute vessels and nerves. The hepatic cclk are the workmen of the factory. To them the materials out of which they are to make bile are brought in the blood of the portal vein. Unlike veins generally, the portal divides into a vast number of branches, and a network of these encloses the lobule. From these embracing vessels, which are very minute, capillaries are sent inward between the cells of the lobule in such abundance that each cell is surrounded by them, and is thus plentifully supplied with blood containing the raw materials which the cell is capable of working over j into a new product, the bile. The cells having abstracted the stuff which they require in their manufacturing processes, the blood passes on, and, at the centre of the lobule, to which point all of the capillaries converge, it enters a vein which runs perpendicularly to the course of the peripheral vessels, and carries the blood away from the lobule. Beginnings of the Bile-ducts.—The surfaces of the cells are grooved in such a manner that the gutters on the adjacent surfaces of two cells fit together and make a cylindrical channel; and into this passage-way, which may be regarded I as a drain-pipe, the bile is poured as soon as it is formed by the cell. These channels form a network among the cells throughout the lobule, as intricate as the plexus of blood-vessels ; and from this network the bile is discharged into ducts, which ramify abundantly upon the surface of the lobule. The Supply of Nutrient Blood.—When we remember that the blood furnished to the lobule by the portal vein is venous, we perceive that, however rich it may be in the materials necessary for the making of bile, it is not adapted to the nourishing of the lobule ; it does not contain the substances needed for the repair of the factory I or the feeding of the operatives. These nutritious and restorative matters are furnished by a separate vessel, the hepatic artery, which sends to each lobule : branches which course over its surface and give off capillaries inward between the cells ; and thus another plexus is formed in the lobule. There is not, how- ever, a separate vein devoted to the task of removing from the lobule the blood introduced by the branches of the hepatic artery : its capillaries enter the plexus of portal-vein capillaries near the centre of the lobule, and the hepatic-artery blood mingles with the venous, flowing out with it through the central, per- pendicular vein. Lymphatics.—Besides the materials of various kinds which are carried away from the bile-factory by the channels already mentioned, there are certain uncon- sumed nutritious substances and certain waste products, which are removed by lymphatic vessels. These originate in irregular spaces in the lobule, form a net- work around it, and their current is in the direction of the stream of outflowing bile, that is, toward the portal at which the blood is introduced into the liver. Finally, there are nerves by which a regulation of the different processes is effected and harmony maintained among them. Arrangement of the Vessels. As previously remarked, the lobule is physiologically a minute liver—it is ] the hepatic unit; and the liver itself is merely an enormous aggregation of count- j less lobules, packed together as solidly as is consistent with the presence of the ' numerous tubes required for its nutrition and the performance of its work. But I this intimate association of a multitude of lobules necessitates some modification I of the description which has been given of a single one. The branches of the 1 portal vein and of the hepatic artery, and the radicles of the bile-ducts and lymphatics, all of which have been described as ramifying upon the outside of the lobule, are seen, when the lobules are packed together, to be between the lobules ; for the close approximation of a number of lobules brings the networks of vessels on the surface of each in contact with the similar plexuses on the sur- faces of all of its immediate neighbors. Thus, one set of vessels can be made to740 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Fig. 799.—Hepatic lobule in transverse section, show- ing the distribution of its blood-vessels, a, a, interlobu- lar veins ; b, intralobular vein ; c, c, c, plexus of capillary blood-vessels within the lobule ; d, li, twigs of interlobu- lar vein, passing to the adjacent lobules. (Dalton.) supply the lobules on both sides of it, as easily as upon one side, and this is exactly what obtains. As tlie vessels are between lobules, they receive the name imply- ing this, interlobular ; the cajjillary networks inside of the lobule are called intra- lobular (" within the lobule "), and the same name is applied to the central vein which carries away from the lobule the blood which is brought to it both by the portal vein and by the hepatic arterv (Fig. 799.) The intralobular veins in a given region discharge into a very much larger vein, upon whose outer surface rest a vast number of lobules ; and, therefore, the name sublobular (" under the lobule") is given to this kind of veins. These last empty into still larger veins, the hepatic, the greater part of them converging to a few large trunks, which terminate in the inferior vena cava, ■where it lies embedded in the posterior surflice of the gland, and the remainder of them reaching the same destination directly. Thus it is seen that the blood which enters the portal vein and passes through the liver, by way of any lobule, must traverse the follo\^ing vessels in succession : portal vein, interlobular vein, intralobular cajiil- lary plexus, intralobular vein, sub- lobular vein, hepatic vein, inferior vena cava. The nourishing blood passes by way of the following vessels : hepatic artery, interlobular arterv, its own intra- lobular capillaries, portal intralobular ca])illary plexus, intralobular vein, sub- lobular vein, hepatic vein, inferior vena cava,—its course beyond its own plexus being identical with that jjursued by the portal blood. The Hepatic Cells, which are the essential elements in the lobule,—the active workers in the bile-factory—are irregular bodies, with flattened sides, and each measures about one thousandth of an inch in diameter. They are composed of granular protoplasm, have no cell-wall, but each has a single, cleai", central nucleus. The Form of the Liver. Although the liver is a solid organ, its consistency is not sufficient to prevent its changing its shape materially when it is removed from the body. If placed upon a board, its weight so causes it to sprawl in different directions as to pro- duce an exaggerated idea of its lateral and antero-posterior dimensions, and an inadequate conception of its greatest thickness. When it is made to rest upon its upper surface, its mass sags to such an extent that the proper distinction between its inferior and posterior surfaces is obliterated, and the two seem to be one. To obtain a correct view of the liver, it should be hardened by some pro- cess while in its natural relations with contiguous organs. The pictures of its surfaces here given have been drawn from a cast of a liver frozen in situ. If the student will but remember that the vena cava inferior, which is for some inches actually embedded in the liver, always pursues a substantially perpendicular course, he will have no difficulty in seeing that the part of the viscus containing tills great vessel must be behind and not beneath. Vesalius, the father of modern anatomy, described and figui'cd the posterior surface in his great folio of 1555; but the correct view was lost sight of, and the grossly perverse presentation has been allowed to pass muster without question until very recent years, and even now the hind surface is not universally recognized.THE LIVER. 741 The liver is located in the uppermost part of the abdomen, immediately beneath the diaphragm, and more on the right than on the left. Fig. 800.—The liver, front view. (Drawn from tlie His cast. V. 11. G.) The liver has three surfaces : an upper, or superior, an under, or inferior, and a hind, or posterior; three borders, an anterior, a postero-superior, and a postero- inferior ; and two extremities, a right, and a left. Fig. 801.—The liver, upper surface. (Drawn from the His cast. F. H. G.) The Surfaces of the Liver. The Upper Surface (Fig. 801) is smooth, and is applied evenly to the under surface of the diaphragm from the exti-eme right side to about half way betweenTHE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 742 the middle line and the left abdominal wall. This surface, consequently, is markedly convex on the right, slightly concave near the middle of the body, where the heart causes a sagging of the diaphragm, and moderately convex at the left. It is covered with serous membrane—a reflection of the peritoneum —excejitiug a very narrow strip running from before backward, and marking the line along which the membrane from the right side and that from the left meet and turn upward, and form the suspensory ligament, which thus divides the upper surface into two very unequal parts, a right lobe of extensive area, and a left lobe, Avhich is much smaller. This division of the liver into right and left portions is observed on the hind and under surfaces also, and is made by a con- tinuation upon them of the line marked out by the suspensory ligament. Thus, if a cord is carried directly around the organ in this plane, it will nearly coincide on the under surface with the umbilical fissure, and on the hind surface with the ductus-venosus fissure. On these surfaces, however, all of the right portion is not called right lobe, for certain subdivisions are recognized, upon each of which distinctive titles have been bestowed. The Under Surface (Fig. 802) is veiy irregular and unevenly concave. It is divided into right and left portions by a groove, which, beginning at a notch in the anterior border, runs backward on a line substantially beneath the attachment BIGHT LP Be of the suspensory ligament on the upper surface. This groove gives lodgment to the shriveled remains of the umbilical vein—an important foetal structure—from which fact it is named the umbilieal fissure. Tlie part of the surface at the left of this crease is the left lobe; that at the right is subdivided into three lobes, by two grooves. Near the hind edge of this surface is a broad gutter, which runs later- ally from and at a right angle to the umbilical fissure ; and from the right end of this a wide, shallow depression runs to the anterior border, parallel to the umbilical fissure. The first of these is called the transverse fissure, from its lateral direction ; the portal fissure, from its being the opening or doorway at which vessels, ducts, and nerves pass into and out of the viscus ; and sometimes the hilu7n, a name often given to similar inlets in other glands. The second groove is named the gall-bladder fissure, from the reservoir of the bile, which occupies it. Between the umbilical fissure at the left, the portal fissure behind, the gall-bladder fissure at the right, and the anterior border in front, is a squarish area, which is called the quadrcde lobe, from its shape. At the right ofTHE LIVER. 743 the o;all-blacl(ler fissure is a large, uneven area, the right lobe. Behind tlie left portfon of the portal fissure appears the lower edge of the Hplgdian lol>(', \he main portion of which is visible only from behind. Finally, a narrow ridge behind the portal fissure connects this inferior border of the Spigelian lobe with the right lobe, and is dubbed the c(iM(Jate lobe, from its fancied resemblance to the tail of an animal. About one-half the area of the right lobe at the front and right is notably concave and receives the hepatic flexure of the colon. At the left of this, and obliquely behind the gall-bladder, is a small impression in which a knuckle of the duodenum is located ; and behind both of these areas is a some- what rhomboidal hollow wliicli is occupied l)y the upi)er end of the right kidney. A considerable part of the surface of the left lobe; is concave and fits the bulging fundus of the stomach ; but there is a ]irominent protuberance at the right and behind (the tuber omentale) against which lie the gastro-hepatic omentum, and the smaller curvature of the stomach. The Hind Surface (Fig. 803) presents two parallel, vertical grooves : one, narrow and shoal, connecting the umbilical fissure of the under surface with the Fig. 803.—The liver, posterior surface. A part of the under surface is seen from tlie rear view, and tliis is sliovvn merely in outline. (Drawn from the His cast. F. H. G.) posterior end of the space between the two layci's of the suspensory ligament on the u])per side, and containing the shrunken remnant of the ductus venoms of fcetal life ; the other, broad and deep, corresponds to the gall-bladder fissure of the under side, at the lower end is separated frf)m it only by the breadth of the caudate lobe, and furnishes a sjiacious lodging for some inches of the vena cava inferior. These fissures are known by the names of the structures which are embedded in them. Between them lies a rectangular space called the Spigelian lobe, whose lower margin is seen on the inferit)r surface, and whose upper edge is visible from above. At the right of the vena-cava fissure is the large, convex ! right lobe ; and at the left of the ductus-venosus fissure is the left lobe, small in extent, somewhat tx'iangular in shape at the right, and rapidly ta])ering at the left and becoming a mere margin, which is directly continuous around the left extremity of the liver with the anterior border.THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 744 Borders of the Liver. The Anterior Border separates the upper and under surfaces in front. It is thin, sharp, and bevelled at the expense of the inferior surface. It is con- tinuous around the right and left extremities of the viscus with the postero- inferior border. It is slightly notched at the beginning of the umbilical fissure, and more widely so where the gall-bladder touches it. The Postero-inferior Border separates the hind and under surfaces. It is well defined, except upon the left lobe between the Spigelian lobe and the place where the posterior surface is lost in the margin. The Postero-superior Border, that between the hind and upper surfaces, is marked far less distinctly than the others by any conformation of hepatic sub- stance. At the left of the vena cava the upper end of the Spigelian lobe and a ridge from it to the beginning of the posterior margin indicate sufficiently the line of separation ; but on the other side of the vein the dome-like superior surface of the right lobe slopes without break to the back of the organ. There is, however, a line along which the serous covering of the upper surface is reflected to the hind wall of the abdomen—a line seen with equal distinctness from above and from the rear—and this is taken as the natural delimitation of the surfaces in question. The Extremities of the Liver. The Right Extremity is massive, evenly convex above, and terminated below by a sliarp edge, which is bevelled at the expense of the under surface. The Left Extremity is thin, flattened horizontally, convex above, concave below, and margined by a very distinct edge. Tunics of the Liver. The liver is closely invested by a delicate areolar membrane, which is reflected inward at the portal fissure ujjon the vessels and ducts passing through this open- ing, and encloses them even to their interlobular ramifications. This wrapping of the hepatic tubes is known as the capsule of GUsson. It is not found in con- nection with any vessels of the hepatic vein series, because it ceases between the lobules, and at least half of the diameter of each of these bodies intervenes between the interlobular space and the intralobular vein, which is the initial root- let of the system of hepatic veins. These last vessels are, as it were, channeled in the substance of the liver, and are so intimately adherent to it that, unlike most veins, they show no tendency to collapse, when cut across. The walls of the branches of the portal vein, on the other hand, tend to fall together when severed, the investment of areolar tissue not holding them open. The fibrous coat of the liver is most distinct at the areas over which there is no serous mem- brane. Like most other organs in the abdomen the liver has a serous tunic, derived from the peritoneum. From the small curvature of the stomach there passes to the portal fissure the double peritoneal layer which is known as the gastro-hepatic omentum, one layer coming from the front, the other from the hind surface of the stomach. The anterior of these spreads out upon the under surface of the liver, turns up over the anterior border and the two extremities, and then covers the upper surface, except small areas at the back edge of the right and left lobes, and except, also, Avhere the membrane which comes from the right end meets that from the left. Here a very narrow strip of surface, widening into a triangular area behind, is left bare ; and on each side the membrane is reflected upward to the diaphragm, on reaching A\'hich the layers turn to the right and left respect- ively, and line its under surface. This doul^le membi'ane is prolonged forward and downward to the anterior abdominal wall as far as the navel, and in the free edge (the hind border) of the part of it below the liver is included the obliterated745 THE LIVER. i Diagram to show the relations of the sus- pensory and round ligaments to the liver and the abdom- inal wall. (F. H. G.) umbilical vein. Thus is formed the smpensory lir/avienf, a sickle-shaped struc- ture, with the round ligament in that part of its cutting edge which projects beyond the anterior border of the liver (Fig. 804). The posterior layer of the gastro- hepatic omentum spreads out upon the hind surface of the liver, but does not n(>arly cover it, tlie back of the right lobe being entirely bare. This layer is reHected onto the rear wall of the abdomen, along an irreg- ular line, extending from just above the lower end of the right lobe be- hind, along the postero-inferior bor- der to the vena cava, in front of this vessel, up by its left side, and then on the upper surface of the left lobe slightly in front of its posterior mar- gin, thus constituting the lower por- tion of the coronari/ ligament. The upper portion of this large ligament is made by the corresponding reflection of the serous membrane from the upper surface. Supports of the Liver. The liver is held in place by various agencies. Probably the most important of these is its intimate connection with the vena cava inferior. This great vessel, })assing upward to the heart, is closely adherent to the back wall of the abdomen, is deeply lodged for some inches of its upper portion in the substance of the liver, and receives from this viscus the few great and many small hepatic veins, some of which come to it from a distance of nearly two inches. The support afforded by the underlying hollow viscera—the stomach and bowels—is not to be ignored. Usually these ai'c occupied to a considerable extent by gas, and thus act as a sort of air-cushion upon which their bulky associate can repose. The fibrous cord, which results from the atrophy of the umbilical vein of intrauterine life, and is known as the round ligament of the liver, does its share in holding up the organ. Its upper part is firmly fastened in the umbilical fissure, from the front end of which it passes down, close to the anterior abdominal wall, enclosed in the-free edge of the falciform ligament, and terminates in the navel, with the cicatricial tissue of which its end is fused. Finally, there are four ligaments formed by folds of peritoneum. Of these the superior has already been described in connec- tion with the serous tunic. It is called suspensory, because the liver seems to hang from it; broad, in comparison with its fellows ; and falciform, from its resemblance to the blade of a sickle. The coronary ligament is so named because it encloses or crowns an area, which results from the backward reflection of the serous covering of the upper and under surfaces to the liind walls of the abdo- men. This ligament is short, and its two layers come together at the right and also at the left. Just beyond each of the points of junction of these layers and continuous with them there is a small, triangular, doul)le fold of peritoneum, which lies between the liver and the diaphragm, and can be best seen by drawing the adjacent side of the muscle away from tlie viscus. These ai'e the lateral liga- ments, the right and the left. Vessels of the Liver. The vessels of the liver are the portal vein, the hepatic artery, the hepatic veins, and the lymphatics. The first two of these pass from between the layersTHE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 746 of the gastro-hepatic omentum into the liver at the transverse fissure, their branehes are embraced by the capsule of Glisson, and they are distributed as has been already stated, the one contril)uting material'upon which the hepatic cells are to act, the otlier furnishing nourishing blood to the various structures of tlic liver. The hepatic veins receive tlie blood from the capillaries both of the portal vein and the liepatic artery, and discharge it into tlie ascending vena cava. The lympJuitics of the liver are both deep and superficial. The deep are divided into a set associated with the portal vessels, and a set accompanying the hepatic veins. The former emerge through the portal fissure, and pass through the hepatic nodes on their way to the coeliac ; the latter empty into the vena- caval nodes. The superficial lymph-vessels of the under surface are tributaries of the hepatic nodes, wliile those from the upper and hind surfaces drain into the anterior mediastinal and vena-caval. The nerves of the lirer are derived from the left jineumogastric, and from the solar plexus, the latter being distributed mainly to the he2:)atie artery, though to some extent to the portal vein. The Bile-ducts. The minute, intralobular l)ile-channels empty into delicate interlobular tubes, lined with very thin cells, which are continuous with tlie bile-secreting cells. These ducts unite and form larger tubes, lined with columnar epithelium, and constitute an interlobular plexus. Passing toward the portal fissure in the cap- sule of Glisson, they attain great size, and present a distinct mucous lining and a thick fibrous coat, in which are many circular and longitudinal ])undles of smooth muscular tissue, irregularly disposed. One trunk from the left and one from the right unite in the portal fissure and form the hepatic duct, which runs two inches downward and to the right, and there joins the cystic (gall-bladder) duct, thus forming the common bile duct (ductus communis choledochus), a tube about three inches long, whicli passes downward and backward to the second part of the duodenum, where it pierces the muscular wall of that bowel, runs in the submucous space for a half-inch or more, and opens in conjunction with the \>aw- creatic duct into the lumen of the duodenum, about four inches below the pylorus. The Gall-bladder. The gall-bladder {vesica feilea) (Fig. 805), the reservoir of the bile, is a pear-shaped bag, nearly four inclies long, an inch and a half wide, and with a capacity of rather more tlian an ounce. It lies in the wide fissure to whicli it gives its name, some- times projecting a little beyond the front margin of the liver, covered on its blunt (forward) end, its sides, and its under surface by serous mem- brane, which is stretched across from the right lobe to the quadrate. Its principal coat is com- ])osed of condensed ai'eolar tissue, in which are irregularly dis]iosed many bundles of unstriped muscle. The lining of niTicous membrane has a honey-comb a])]iearance. The tube of discliarge, the ci/stic duct, about an inch long, has a structure like the other bile ducts, but presents the peculiaritv of a number of oblique folds of its mucous membrane, which project into tlie bore and suggest the thread of a screw. All through the large bile ducts and in the gall-bladder there are mucus-secreting glands. COM MON\ BILE DUCT' Fig. 805.—The cystic rluct in section, with part of the gali-b)nflder, hepatic and common bile ducts. (Testut.)THE LIVER. 7^7 Size and Weight of the Liver.—The adult liver measures 10 or 12 iuclies from end to end, 6 or 7 inches fore-and-aft, 3 or 4 vertically in the thickest part. Its weight is from three to four 'pounds. Its weight relatively to that of the entire body varies enormously at different periods, being one-third when the embryo is two months old, and one thirty-sixth or less in middle life. It diminishes in size and weight as old age creeps on. It is brownish-red in color, often presenting a mottled appearance. It is tirm to the touch, but rather friable ; and, when torn across, the exposed surface is seen to be distinctly granular on account of the presence everywhere of the lobules. Situation of the Liver (Fig. 806).—The position of the liver in the right hypo- chondriac, epigastric, and left hypochondriac regions is not entirely unchangeal)le, but is moditied by a number of circumstances, particularly by respiration, the attitude of the body, the distension or emptiness of stomach and colon, and the tightness of the clothing of the thorax. To these influences, wliich are not pathological, may be added various others, which result from disease. In forced inspiration the dome of the right lobe may be driven down to the level of the ninth thoracic vertebra ; in forced expiration it may rise as high as the upper border of the eighth thoracic vertebra. If a knife were to be inserted horizon- tally into the thorax on the plane of the fourth costo-chondro-sternal junction, it would be likely to shave the summit of the hepatic dome. This gives one a good idea of the greatness of the encroachment of the abdomen n\wn the space which the lower margins of the thoracic cage suggest to the casual observer as belong- ing to the chest cavity. Relations of the Liver.—The liver is in relation above with the diaphragm, which separates it from the heart and lungs, the first of these organs making its position apparent by a shallow depression on the top of the left lobe, and the others, more yielding in their nature, indicating their location by the great bulges wliich they permit the liver to make into their under surfoces. Its upper surface is also in contact with the anterior wall of the alidomen above a line drawn from the eighth costal cartilage on the right to the middle of the seventh on tlie left; for the upper surfiice slopes markedly fcn'ward and downward, and justifies the name which is sometimes given it—the antero-superior surface. The Spigelian lobe lies against the right crus of the diaphragm, opposite the tenth and eleventh thoracic vertebrte. The relations of the other portions of the liver with contiguous748 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Five Fissures Five Lobes Five Sets of on hind surface. viscera are so clearly indicated in the pictures that it is unnecessary to recapitu- late them. Partial Summary.—Some of the principal facts of gross, hepatic anatomy mav be tabulated for mnemonic purposes as follows.: 'Umbilical Fissure ^ Gall-bladder Fissure > on under surface. Portal, or Transverse Fissure j , I Ductus-venosus Fissure i^Vena-cava Fissure TLeft. I Right, subdivided into Quadrate 1 n -I . > on under surface. Caudate J Spigelian on hind surface. Branches of Portal Vein. Branches of Hepatic Artery. Radicles of He^jatic Veins. Vessels i Bile Ducts. Lymphatics. Suspensory, Broad, or Falciform. ^ Coi'onary. ' tj • i iri 11 Five Ligaments Right Lateral, or Right Triangular. Pentoneal olds. I Left Lateral, or Left Triangular. J Round—obliterated Umbilical Vein. THE PERITONEUM. In the preceding descriptions of the abdominal digestive organs it has been necessary to make frequent reference to their serous coat. In every case this covering is a part of the peritoneum ; and, although one organ which is com- pletely invested, and several which are only partly clothed by it, are yet to be con- sidered, it seems best at this stage to present an account of this great mem- brane as a whole. It may be well for the student to refresh his qiemory by referring to what is said of serous membranes in general on page 66, and of the development of the intestines on page 88. The peritoneum is by far the most extensive and most complicated of the serous membranes. Its extreme complexity is due to clianges in the position of the viscera in their development, and to obliterations which have taken ])lace on account of the adhesion of certain apposed surfaces. It does not meet all of the requirements of a typical serous membrane, because in females it is not a shut sac, there being a continuity of its surface and that of the mucous membrane lining the oviduct, and, consequently, a communication between its cavity and the surface of the body. Between it and the parietal structures which it lines is a variable amount of areolar tissue called subperitoneal, sometimes ccmtaining fat-cells. This permits a degree of motion of the jieritoneum upon subjacent parts. The connection between the serosa and its viscera is usually much closer. Tlie viscera are connected to the abdominal parietes and to each other by folds of peritoneum. These have received various names, as mesenteries, omenta, and ligaments. Mesenteries. A mesentery is a double fold of peritoneum, enclosing the vessels, nerves, etc., devoted to a portion of intestine. Specifically, and always when used alone, the name refers to the mesentery of the small intestine, described on page 718 ; but the term is often employed in a larger and generic sense to indicate a similarly749 THE PERITONEUM. constituted structure, attached to any organ. Tlui.s, we may speak of the mesen- tery of the gall-bladder, seen in cases where this reservoir, instead of being held close to the liver, as is usually the fiict, hangs away from it at some little distance, depending from a doul)le, serous fold, which encloses its vessels and nerves. The mesenteries of portions of the large intestine are called by specific names, as transverse mesocolon, sigmoid mesocolon ; and exce})tionally we find an (tscending mesocolon, or a descending mesocoh)i. The mesentery of the vermiform appendix is called the mesenteriolum (" the little mesentery"). The Mesentery proper extends from the left side of the second lumbar verte- bra obliquely downward to the right iliac fossa. The transverse mesocolon crosses the abdomen horizontally at the level of the third portion of the duodenum. The sigmoid mesocolon begins in the left iliac fossa, passes downward and to the right until it reaches the middle line of the sacrum, in which it then goes down- ward a short distance. The occasional ascending mesocolon lies behind the portion of intestine to which it belongs, and the same is true of the rare descending mesocolon. Fig. 807.—The great omentum as seen from the front. (Testut.) Omenta. Omentum (epiploon) is a term applied to a fold of peritoneum connecting the stomach with some other viscus. The gastro-hepatic (" stomach-liver "j omentum or small omentum extends from750 THE PERITONEUM. the small curvature of the stomach and the adjacent first part of the duodenum to the portal fissure of the liver, and encloses the tubes which enter and leave this opening. The gastro-colic ("stomach-colon") omentum or grreoi omentum (Fig. 807) con- nects the great curvature of the stomach and the adjoining first part of the duodenum with the transverse colon. This omentum is far more voluminous than is necessary to establish a bond of miion between the stomach and colon : it hangs downward in front of the mass of small intestines like an apron, and car- ries in the interstices of its structure an amount of adipose tissue, which varies according to the fatness of the individual. This protective organ, so serviceable in keeping the bowels warm, justifies the alleged origin of its name, which makes it mean " coverlet." The gastro-splenic (" stomach-spleen ") omentum is a double fold of peritoneum, passing from the dorsal surface of the stomach, near its left border, backward and inward to the anterior margin of the hilum of the spleen. It runs below into the gastro-colic omentum. It is often called the gastro-splenic ligament. Ligaments. Other folds of peritoneum, connecting two viscera, or a viscus with the abdominal wall, are called ligaments. The name hepato-duodenal ligament is sometimes applied to the right, free mar- gin of the gastro-hepatic omentum, which connects the liver and duodenum. The ligaments of the liver, which are formed from peritoneum—suspensory, coronary, lateral—have already been discussed. The /ieno-reHo/ (" spleen-kidney") ligament, including the lieno-imncreatic ligament, which is its ventral layer, will be described in connection with the spleen. The peritoneal ligaments of the bladder and the uterus will be more fittingly treated of in the chapters on the urinary and the reproductive organs. The phreno-colic ("diaphragm-colon") ligament, also called costo-colic, is a small fi»ld stretching from the diaphragm near the tenth or eleventh rib of the left side to the colon near the spleen, and giving mechanical support to the last- named organ. General View of the Peritoneum. The pentoneum as a tohole is to be regarded as a bag, constricted to a mere passage-way at one point, so that there are formed two cavities, a great one and a small one, communicating through a narrow throat. VENA CAVA INFERIOR Pj(3 808.—Dissection to sliow n l.itinn^ of tlie foramen of Winslow, to which the dart points. The front of the rit'lit portion of the gastro-hi'i.:itic (niu'ntum has been cut and turned off to tlie left, and the liver lifted up and baclj, displaying the objects in the Imjit wall of the foramen. The horizontal broken line marks the posi- tion of the section from which the next picture was made. (Testut.) The small sac of the peritoneum lies behind the large sac, and furnishes the serous surface for the back of the stomach, the Spigelian lobe of the liver, and theTHE PEllITONEUM. 751 front of the pancreas. The other abdominal vi.scera have their serosa from the great sac. The narrow strait between the great and small cavities of the j^eritonenm is called the foramen of Winsloui, and foramen epipldicnm (Figs. 808, 809). It is bounded in front by the vessels entering and leaving the portal fissure of the liver, VERTEBRA COMMON HEPATIC BILE DUCT ARTERY Fig. 809.—Transverse horizontal section throiigh the foramen of Winslow. The lower end of the Spigelian lobe has been shaved off, and the upper surface of the piece is seen. (Testut.) behind by the vena cava inferior, above by the caudate lobe of the liver, and below by the duodenum. It is large enough to admit two fingers. The Small Sac of the Peritoneum (Figs. 810, 811).—In the embryo the small sac reaches at first but little lower than the stomach ; but afterward it enlarges rapidly by extension downward, and forms a pouch, which hangs from the great curvature of the stomach in front of the intestines, and contracts adhesion to and blends with the front part of the serous coat of the transverse colon, thus estab- TRANSVERSE COLON TRANSVERSE COLON Fig. 810.-Diagram of a sagittal section of the abdomen of an embryo, showing the reflections of the peritoneum in the great cavity and the small cavity. (Testut.) Fig. 811.—Diagram of a sagittal section of the abdo- men of an adult, showing the growth of the small cavity, and the application of its rear wall to the trans- verse colon and mesocolon. Compare with preceding figure. (Testut.) lishing a connection between the stomach and colon, which is called the r/afifro- oolic omenfimi, on account of the organs which it unites, and great omentum, because it is so much larger than the gastro-hepatic. It is thus seen that the name " cavity of the great omentum " is synonymous with " the small cavity of the peritoneum." Not only does the small sac become adherent to the colon, but its posterior double layer becomes attached to and merged Avith the anterior (up])er) surface of the transverse mesocolon.: and so intimate is this connection that this part of theTHE PERITONEUM. 752 colon seems to he entirely surrounded by the rear wall of the sac. Furthermore, adhesion takes ])laee between the layers of the pouch which are below the level of the transverse colon, absorption occurs at many points, and the four-layered apron is converted into a coarse lace-work, in whose meshes a considerable deposit of fat appears. It is useful to trace the course of the peritoneum at different planes in order to obtain a comprehension of its continuity, the relations which it sustains to the abdominal viscera, and the relations which it maintains between them. If we make a horizontal section, of the abdomen a little above the iliac crests, and inspect the upper surface of the lower segment, we shall obtain such a view as is presented in the semidiagram, Fig. 812. Beginning at the descending colon, Small Lymphatic Vena cava A/scending Mesentery Arirta iiiteatine node inferior colon Fig. Kl2.—Course of the peritoneum, as seen in a horizontal section above the iliac crests. Semidiagram- matic. (Tillaux.) we trace the peritoneum over its left side, front, and part of its right side, but not upon its back, for it has no mesentery ; thence it extends to the face of the left kidney, which, like its mate, lies entirely behind the serosa, in other words is retroperitoneal ; from this organ the peritoneum stretches over the psoas mag- nus and onto the vertebral column and the aorta, which rests on its ventral sur- face ; then it passes forward as the left side of the mesentery, covering the vessels, nerves, nodes, and flit which are the essential parts of that structure, envelops the small intestine, and returns to the vertebral region as the right side of the mesentery ; here it partially coats the inferior vena cava, runs onto the right psoas, touches the right kidney, and turns around the ascending colon, giving it a larger covering than it favored the descending colon with, though it leaves its dorsal part nearly or quite bare ; thence it again reaches the right kidney, whose anterior aspect it partially clothes, and from this is reflected to the abdominal wall, and sweeps around to the starting point in a great expanse of parietal peri- toneum. If we examine the surface of this anterior wall at a lower level, we shall observe a median ridge from the bladder to the umbilicus, due to the urachus ; on each side of this a ridge, sloping down and outward fi-om the navel, these being caused by the obliterated hypogastric arteries ; nearly parallel with these and further to'the side, are slight elevations, which are produced by the epigastric vessels ; and, running down and inward from the iliac spines, the inguinal liga-753 THE PERITONEUM. ments. In the angle between the epigastric vessels and the ingninal ligament is a slight cle})ression, the external iiif/idiKtl fossa, marking the internal abdominal ring, the beginning of the ingninal canal; in the angle between the hypogastric ridge and the inguinal ligament is the middle ingmnal fossa ; below this, toward the side and beneath the inguinal ligament, is the femoral fossa ; and between the urachus and the hypogastric artery is the internal inguinal fossa. If we trace the peritoneum vertically, beginning on the sujierior surface of the liver, we pass down to its anterior border, back and upward on its inferior surface to the portal fissure, where we come in contact with the small omentum, which guides us downward to the front of the stomach, passing over which we I reach the anterior surflice of the great f)mentum, and this, being followed over its ' lower edge and posterior aspect, leads to the transverse colon ; thence beneath the transverse mesocolon the course lies upward and backward to the third part of the duodenum, where an abrupt change of direction occurs, and the membrane is traced downward over the mesentery and jejiino-ileum, and back on the other side of the mesentery to the hind wall of the abdomen, which is again left to form the serous part of the sigmoid mesocolon and the outer tunic of the siguioid colon. After this the course is different in the two sexes. In the male the ])eritoneum goes from the rectum to the bladder a short distance above the prostate gland, forming the j recto-vesieal pouch, covers the superior surface, and thence extends to the front 1 abdominal wall. In the female it passes from the rectum to the upper extremity of the vagina and the uterus, forming the recto-vaginal or recto-uterine pouch, called j also the cnl-de-sac of Douglas ; then covers the sujjravaginal part of the uterus, from I which it extends to the bladder, and then to the anterior wall of the abdomen. Its course upward requires no especial mention, other than that already given it, until the navel is reached. Above this there runs upward and slightly to the right a ridge which ends above at the anterior border of the liver, and encloses the round ligament of the liver. At the sides of this elevation the peritoneum is traced smoothly over the anterior belly-wall and onto the under surface of the diaphragm, from which it turns to the upper surface of the liver, where the excursion was begun. Variations from these two simple tracings occur, as the planes of the sections are made in different directions ; but these examples give a correct idea of the chief features of the peritoneal complications. Retroperitoneal Fossae. At certain places the peritoneum is marked by the presence of one or more crescentic folds, bordering the openings of distinct pouches or fossfe, which are of practical interest as being the sites of retroperitoneal hernise. They occur in the regions of the duodenum, the sigmoid colon, and the caecum. About the duodenum, three of these pits are recognized. The most common is the inferior duodenal fossa, situated in the lower and external portion of the fourth part of this intestine, its mouth directed upward. The su2)erior duodenal fossa, also in connection with this part, opens downward, its orifice facing that of the superior fossa. Both of the preceding are frequent. The duodcno-jejunal fossa is rare. It begins on the back of the jejunum, and extends upward to the duodeno-jejunal junction. The intersigmoid fossa, begins in the left iliac fossa at the proximal part of the sigmoid mesocolon, and runs upward behind the peritoneum of the dorsal abdomi- nal wall. In the ceecal region a number of fossse may be found, of which the most I important is the postccecal fossa, which extends upward behind ctecum and ascending colon for a variable distance. It may include the proximal part of the appendix vermiformis, and cause annoyance in operations upon this organ. 48755 THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. By F. H. GERRISH. PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY. RESPIRATION is a dual function, consisting of the simultaneous expulsion of certain waste matters and appropriation of a nourishing material. The substance which is introduced in this process is gaseous, and the thing:s which are eliminated are either gaseous or vaporized. The double performance is popu- larly called breathing. The apparatus necessary for respiration consists of a thin, moist membrane, exposed on one side to air, and on the other to a moving stream of blood (Fig. 813). Each of these fluids gains sometliing from, and loses something to, the AIR THIN MUCOSA | - | - | - |_|— |_ |_ | ~ CAPILLARY BLOOD VESSEL (3I)QQ Q(3(DQ(5 Q (330 ©(30 QQQO ©<S0" Fig. 813—Diagram of the essentials of a respiratory apparatus. (F. H. G.) other : the air parts with oxygen and takes on a load of effete materials ; while, at the'same time, the blood gives up certain waste products and appropriates the oxygen the most important item of the body's income—these various substances passuno- readily through the delicate membrane, which is mucous. In^different classes of animals the necessary structural conditions are_ afforded in various ways. In some aquatic creatures the respiratory membrane is spread over the surface of a plume-like organ that projects from the body and waves about in the water, which always contains air (Fig. 814). A more common device is that of gills, in which the mucous mem- brane is disposed in layers, between which the air-laden water is drawn, being taken in at the mouth and ejected at the sides of the head. In the tadpole, which lives en- tirely in the water, the l)reathing organs are gills ; but the frog, into which tlie tadpole develops, has a very dilferent apparatus. Gradually the structural peculiarities of tlie aquatic animal are lost, and Vnose of the , , .„ ^ , u amphibian are acquired; and, synchron- -Head and gills of Menobranchus. <>i"l" \ , V , i Ai ri„ + .;i ously with the shrinkage of the hsh-like tail, and the growth of the limbs, is observed the development of a new breathing-apparatus, unfit for abstracting oxygen from the air which is contained in water, but capable of taking the gas directly from the ordinary atmosphere. It is a sac, wholly contained in the trunk, and into it, at brief intervals, a quantitv of air is drawn, permitted to remain a short time, and then expelled by the channel of entrance. This sac is lined with a delicate756 THE ORGANS OF BESPIBATION. mucosa, with the attaclied surface of wliich a network of capilhiries is in contact. It is a very simple kind of lung, and yet is the type on which the most complex respiratory organ i-; constructed. An animal wliich requires, on account of the rapidity of his tissue-changes, a very large supply of oxygen, would find locomotion impracticable, if his respira- tory membrane was at the surface, projecting like a tree, or arranged like gills ; but it is manifest that there is not sufficient room in the entire body for a simple sac, whose lining would afford a surface large enough to meet the requirements of the case. The ])roblem presented is that of providing a great extent of sur- face within a limited cubic space. It is the same question as that which confronts the librarian, whose books are vastly too numerous to be accommodated by the entire available area of the walls of the room. He neither appropriates more apartments, nor builds an addition to the house; but he constructs partial partitions, projecting from the walls toward the centre of the room, making alcoves of the intervening spaces, and thus enormously multiplies the shelving capacity. Nature adopts this plan in the lung, and, by form- ing alcoves at the jieriphery of the original sac, augments its available surface without increasing Fig. 815,-Lung of frog, cut open, itg cubic Capacity. The lung of the frog: illus- showing Its internal surface. (Dalton.) ^■ n • ^ • m r i trates this lact; a sectional view (rig. olo) shows that the muco.sa is folded into partial partitions, between which are little recesses around the periphery, all opening into a clear, central passage. The complex lung of man is built ujion this type. But the complexity of the human lung arises not largely from elaboration of the plan, but from immense multiplication of the structure. The great size of the human being and his rela- tively greater activity require not a different kind of lung, but a host of lungs of the same kind. Therefore, the human lung may well be regarded as a vast community of batrachian lungs, with the addition of such accessories as the immensity of the collection makes necessary. The alcoves—to repeat the library simile—are called air-vesicles, alveoli, or air- cells—the last name being objectionable on account of the diflx'rent use of the word " cell " in histology. A collection of alveoli around a central hall consti- tutes an iiifini(Jih>i,lain, so called from its funnel-shape. A group of closely related infundibula makes a lobule. A great community of lobules is a lobe. Two or three lobes make a limg. In mode of development and general appearance a lobule bears a striking resemblance to a racemose gland. The stem of a lobule is an air-duct, and from this, within the lobule, branch the more minute tubes, which serve as stems for the infundibula, three of the latter often being connected with one of the former. The duct of the lobule unites with another of like size, making a larger one ; this last joins with its equal, and so on ]irogressively until tubes of considerable size are reached, which either pursue this method, or enter the sides of those which are larger. Finally, for each of the two lungs a single tube results, and the two combining form a great median pipe. Beyond this the air-channels do not have the regularity of shape which has characterized the system up to this point. They are the larynx, the pharynx, and the passages of the nose. Tracing the air-ducts in reversed order from the surface of the body to the depths of the lung, we have— 1. The nasal ])assages. 2. The upper and middle portions of the pharynx. 3. The larynx. 4. The trachea (the windjiipe). 5. The two bronchi—one bronchus for each lung. 6. The bronchia (bronchial tubes, bronchioles) of all sizes from the largest to the smallest.THE TRACHEA. 757 The nasal passages, as cavities in the skull, are treated of in the chapter on osteology, as olfactory structures, in the chapter on the organs of the special I senses. The pharynx, being an alimentary as well as a respiratory organ, has already been presented as a part of the digestive tract. The larynx, which is the organ of voice, is the highly specialized upward continuation of the trachea, and its description would best be deferred until the simpler struc^tures have been con- I sidered. We now have before us an outline of the physiological anatomy of the breath- ing apparatus, and are prepared to study the structures in detail. This can most profital)ly be done by beginning with the windpipe and proceeding in an unbroken course to the air-vesicles. THYROID IMPRESSION THE TRACHEA. The trachea (so called from the Greek word for " rough," on account of the marked inequalities felt on its surface), or ivindpipe (Fig. 81G), is a straight tube, situated in the middle line of the lower and front part of the neck and the upper part of the thorax, in front of the oesophagus, extending from the lower border of the larynx downward and backward to its di- vision in the bronchi, and from the plane of the sixth cervical to that of the fourth thoracic vertebra. When the face is di- I'ected forward, the trachea is a little more than four inches in length ; but this meas- urement may be increased by the forcible extension of the neck and diminished by sharp flexion, the variation between the shortest and longest measurements exceed- ing one and a half inch. Its average transverse diameter in the cadaver is four- fifths of an inch, the antero-posterior a trifle less; but both are smaller during life on account of the activity of the mus- cular part of the pipe. It is convex and rigid in front and at the sides, flat and flex- il)le behind. The framcivorJc of tlie tracliea consists of mixed white and yellow fii)rous tissue, and strips of pure cartilage, the latter being embedded in the front and sides of the tube made by the former. The pieces of cartilage are very irregular in shape—some being of nearly uniform width from one end to the other, some bifurcating at one end, some having a branch near the middle ; l)ut their general direction is hori- zontal, and, seen from the front or side, they produce the eflFect of nearly jiarallel bands. But they are not rings, though often so called ; for they do not encircle the trachea, but always end at the border of its flat, hind surface. They vary in number from fifteen to twenty. The highest one is wide and firmly attached to the lowest cartilage of the larynx ; the lowest sends a spur downward and back- ward from its centre, between the origins of the bronchi. The fibrous mass in which the cartilages are embedded is caused by them to bulge in transverse lines, thus being produced the irregularities which give the trachea its name. Ossifica- tion of the cartilages begins at forty or fifty years of age. The flat, Jiind wall, instead of being stiffened with cartilage, is made contrac- Fk. 816.—Trachea and bronchi, front viow. (Testiit.)THE ORGANS OF BESPJRA TION. 758 tile by a continuous sheet of unstriped muscle which it encloses. The bundles of muscular fibres run horizontally, and are attached to the ends of the cartilages where these exist, and to the fibrous wall in the interspaces. In front of the muscle are conspicuous longitudinal bundles of yellow fibrous tissue. The cartilages serve the purpose of preventing the collapse of the trachea from external pressure or from sudden internal suction. The necessities of human respiration require permanence of the Inmen of the pipe, a condition which would not be satisfied by a less rigid material than cartilage. The elasticity of the yel- low fibrous tissue permits the considerable elongation which movements of the head demand, and ensures perfect restoration and even some shortening beyond the average length. The ivhite fibrous tissue gives strength, flexibility, and toughness. The muscular tissue in the flat, hind portion causes approximation of the ends of the cartilages under nervous stimulus, and diminution of the calibre of the tube. The lining of the ti'achea is smooth mucous membrane, the epithelium of which is columnar, stratified, and ciliated. The deepest layer of the corium is com- posed almost wliolly of yellow fibrous tissue. The submucous, areolar coat, con- necting the mucosa Avith the fibrous tunic (in which, as has been already said, are the cartilaginous and muscular elements), contains many racemose mucous glands, the ducts of which discharge into the tul)e. The greater part of these glands are in the spaces l)etween the cartilages and in the hind wall. The principal arteries of the trachea are the inferior thyroid, its lyiupliatics are tributaries of the bronchial and deep cervical nodes, and its nerve-supply is derived from the pneumogastric and great sympathetic. The trachea lies in the midst of an abundant mass of areolar tissue, which is so loose as to permit free movement up, down, and horizontally. THE BRONCHI. The lower end of the trachea bifurcates laterally into the bronchi (Fig. 817), which strangely get their name from the Greek word for " throat." They pass to the right and left lungs respectively. In structure and general form they are exact continuations of the trachea, with convex front and sides, which are stiffened witli cartilaginous bands embedded in fibrous tissues, a flat back, which is filu'ous and muscular, and a lining of mucous membrane, whose ejiitlielinm is cylindrical, ciliated, and in layers. The right bronchus is the shorter (a scant inch), wider inch), and more nearly horizontal; the left bronchus is the longer (about two inches), narrower (|- inch), and more nearly vertical. They are sup- plied by the bronchial arteries, and by nerves from the pulmonary plexus. THE BRONCHIA. The air-ducts, leading from a bronchus into the depths of the lung, are called bronchia, bronchial tubes, or bronchioles (Fig. 817). The right bronchus gives three branches to its lung, the left only two. The tubes divide progressively, (sometimes dichotomously, sometimes otherwise), into smaller tubes down to the infundibula, the ducts of which are about ^rs "^^'^ diameter. Although the bronchioles are continuous with the bronchi, as the latter are with the trachea, they have a different shape—the bronchi and windpipe being flat behind, all the other tubes perfectly cylindrical. In other words, the outline of a transverse section of every pi])e concealed within the lung is circular, while that of those which are outside of the lung is convex only in front and at the sides. The bronchioles have three coats—mucous, muscular, and fibrous. The mucous membrane is everywhere provided with ciliated epithelium, the lashes of which beat always toward the larger tubes, thus preventing an accumulation of mucus in the air-vesicles. Glands are numerous, except in the very small tubes. The muscle fibres of the middle coat are transversely arranged, and are relativelyMINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LUNGS. 759 most conspicuous in the smallest tubes. The fibrous coat contains not only white fibrous tissue, but also many yellow fibres. It diminishes in thickness as the tubes become smaller, and is extremely thin within the lolniles. In the tubes which have a diameter of 2V ""^^h or more this coat is strengthened by cartilagin- I Fig. 817.—Bronehl and bronchioles. The Inngs have been widely separated, and tissue cut away to expose the air-tubes. (Testut.) ous plates, not disposed in an annular way, as in the trachea and bronchi, but irregularly scattered through the tunic. The tubes which have no cartilages are also deficient in glands; but their lining membrane is kept moist by a smear of mucus furni.shed by goljlet cells. The muscular tunic in these minute tubes, although scanty, is important, as it possesses the power of narrowing their calibre, and thus diminishing the size of the air-current^ In asthma the exaggeration of the normal action of this coat is responsible for the difficulty in breathing. MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LUNGS. Upon the walls of the minute bronchioles little bulges appear, at first rarely, but with increasing frequency as the distal end of the tube is approached. Finally the bronchium widens out and terminates in an irregular chamber, the sides and blind end of which are closely set with these little protrusions, and we have the ultimate and essential part of the respiratory apparatus—an infundi- bulum. The minute blebs on the tubes seem to be the result of an effort of nature to form an infundibulum before all of the necessary conditions are favor- able. Again and again the attempt is made, always with greater results, and at last the whole remainder of the tube undergoes the transformation. The pouches are the alveoli (air-sacs, air-vesicles, air-cells). The infundibula are not always funnel-shaped, as the name implies, but are often very irregular in form. Structure of an Infundibulum (Fig. 818).—The framework of an infundibulum760 THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. is very thin, transparent, and composed fibrous tissue, the yellow variety being conspicuous, and forming a delicate network. A few smooth m uscular fibres are Fig. 818.—Diagram of a lobule of tlie lung. A bronchiole is seen clividin;; into two branches, one of which runs upward and ends in the lobule. In the lobule are four groups of infiindibula. At the left are two infun- dibula the alveoli of which present their outer surfaces. Next are three infundibula in vertical section, the alveoli of each opening into the common passageway. Upon the ultimate bronchiole of this group are alveoli. In tlie next group the first infuudibulum shows a pulmonary arteriole surrounding the opening of each alveo- lus, and the second gives the same with tlie addition of the close capillary network in the wall of each alveolus. The same arrangement of vessels is seen in the alveolus upon the bronchiole of this group. Around the fourtli gri iup is a deep deposit of pigment, such as occurs in old age, and in the lungs of those who inhale coal- dust ami tlie like. On the bronchiole lies a branch of the pulmonary artery (blue), bringing blood to tlie infinidibula for aeration. It also supplies nourishing blood to tlie tubes arid other structures within the lobule. Beginning between tlie iiifundibula are the radicle.s of the i>uhii(inary vein (red), a root of which lies upon the bronchiole. The bnmchial artery is shuwn as a small vessel bringing nutrii nt blood to the bronchiole (outside of the lobule), the artery and vein, iind all i if the structures between and arciund the lobule. No attempt is made to show the sustentacular tissue u hicli ticeupies the spaces within and around the lobule. (F. H. G.) found between the air-vesicles. Next to this wall is a dense network of capil- laries, the spaces between Avhich are not as wide as the vessels themselves. The lining of an infundibulum and its air-vesicles is a delicate epithelium, which is directly continuous with that of the mucosa of the tubes. It is chiefly761 MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LUNGS. composed of broad, flattened, non-ciliated cells of extreme thinness, among which are scattei'ed here and there little clusters of small polygonal cells, like those Avhich in the foetus form the entire epithelium of this part. The tii'st full expan- sion of the vesicle by the inrush of air after birth stretches out almost all of the cells, but leaves in their embryonic condition the few which, if enlarged like the majority, would make the lining too voluminous. The cells are so thin that the blood in the capillaries is separated from the air by so small an amount of tissue that the least possible resistance to the passage of gases back and forth is inter- posed. At points where the edges of several cells converge are often seen minute stomata, opening into lymph-channels of the areolar tissue. The free edges of the air-vesicles support a fine arteriole, which twists in and out, now on this and then on that side of the dividing line between two adjacent alveoli, and from this tortuous encircling vessel the capiUary nehvorl: is given ofF to the neighboring vesicles. Those portions of this plexus which are on walls between alveoli have two surfaces exjjosed to air, one in one vesicle and one in another. Fig. 819—The pulmonary artery. The front part of the right lung has buen removed, and the pulmonary vessels and the bronchial tubes are thus exposed. (Testut.) Two or three infundibula may start from the end of one bronchiole. The infundibula are gathered into groups of approximately uniform size, which, with the necessary vessels, nerves, and uniting areolar tissue, constitute lobules. The lobules at the periphery of a lung are more or less pyramidal ; but the others are packed together so closely that they have become reciprocally compressed into various and fantastic forms. Between the lobules is cireohir tissue, which is abundant in the infant, scanty in the adult; consequently their isolation is easy in the former, and difficult or even impossible iu the latter case. This interlobular areolar tissue and also that between the alveoli after early life is the seat of a deposit of carbonaceous matter, doubtless inhaled, and carried by lymph-channels to this tissue and to lymph-762 THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. nodes. This deposition of pigment makes clear the outlines cf the lobules and even of the bases of the infundibula. Blood-vessels of the Lungs.—Two sets of blood-vessels are distributed to the lung and to all of its lobules—the branches of tlie pulmonary arter;/ and those of the bronchial arteries. The latter furnish nourishing blood to the organ ; the former carry to it venous blood, which is to be aerated, that is to say, to be re- lieved of certain materials wliich are the result of tissue-waste, and to be loaded up from the air with oxygen—the most important of the articles of physiological income. The pulmonary artery (Fig. 819), by its branches, accompanies the tubes and carries the greatest part of its blood to the capillary plexus of the alveoli ; but some of it is supplied to the mucous membrane of those bronchioles which are near the infundibula—those which have air-vesicles upon them. The puhnonary veins (Fig. 820) begin bv radicles at the margin of the caj)illary network of the Fin. sjO.—I'uliuonary veins, seen in a dorsal view of the lieiirt and lungs. (Testnt.) alveoli and the minute tubes—tliat is, they take blood from the parts to which the ]iulmonary artery is distributed. The bronchial arteries follow the divisions of tlie air-tubes, and supply arterial blood to the walls of the tubes (excei)t the smallest), the coats of the large ves- sels, to wliich they are vasa rasorum, the bronchial lym])li-nodes, the jileura, the areolar tissue beneath the jdeura, and that between the lobules. Tlie bronchial veins gather the blood from all of the parts to which the bronchial artery supplies it, excepting a little, which on account of a communication of the networks on the intralobular tubes and those which form the stems of the lobules, mingles with the blood furnished by the pulmonary artery, and is, consequently, taken up by the radicles of the pulmonary vein. GROSS ANATOMY OF THE LUNGS. The hmgf< (Figs. 821-823) (Latin puhnones, from which comes " pulmonary") are two large organs, which occu]>y a great part of the chest cavity, one in each side of it, and separated from each other by the heart, the gullet, the great blood-GHOSS ANATOMY OF THE LUNGS. 763 vessels, and other structures iu the mediastinal space. Each lung presents an outer surface, which is convex, and adapted to the inner surface of the chest-wall of one side ; an internal or mesial surface, which is irregularly concave and occu- pied by mediastinal organs; an under surface or base, very concave and fitting to the upper surface of the diaphragm ; a summit or apex, which rises an inch above the level of the first rib ; a hind border, rounded, vertical, and adjusted to the Fig. 821.—Right lung, outer surfuoe. (Testut.) Fig. 822.—Left lung, outer surface. (Testut.) long hollow made by the bodies of the thoracic vertcljrse and the proximal portion of corresponding ribs ; a front border, thin, irregular, and sloping from above downward and outward to the level of the fifth or sixth rib ; and a louer bordci-, bevelled sliarjily at the expense of the lower surface, and marking the under limit of the outer surface. On the inner surface, three quarters way back from the front line, and about Fig. 823.—Lungs, dorsal view. (Testut.) equally distant from apex and base, is a vertical notch, the IrUum, two inches long and an inch or more broad, which gives passage to the air-ducts, pulmonary artery and veins, bronchial artery and veins, lymph-vessels, and nerves, and affords lodgment to a considerable number of lym])h-nodes. These different organs in the hilum are united into one large fagot, called the root of the lung. The inner surface of the left lung is much more deeply concaved than that of the right, on account of the greater encroachment of the heart upon the space atTHE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. 764 the left of tlie midclle line. The front border, also, for the same reason, is deeply notched. The right lung is on a somewhat higher plane than the left, on account of the greater elevation of the right half of the diaphragm, upon which muscle the lungs rest. Each lung is marked by a deep fissure (Fig. 824), which starts on the hind surface about three inches below the apex, and runs sjiirally around, terminating near the junction of the inner and lower borders. This fissure is very deep, extending inward nearly to the hilum, and dividing the lung into an upper lobe and a loirer lobe. About half way of this oblique fissure on the right lung a second fissure (Fig. 825) begins and runs nearly horizontally toward the middle line, FiG. 824.—Position of the oblique fissure of the Fig. 825.—Position of the fissures of the right left lung with reference to the ribs. The humerus lung with reference to the ribs. The humerus is is raised. The line la: is the axillary line. (Testut.) raised. The line j-j: is the axillary line. (Testut.) ending at the anterior border. This fissure divides the upjier lobe of the right side into two, which are called the middle lobe and the upper lobe. The left lung is taller, narrower, and more deeply excavated on its median surface ; the right is shorter, wider, le.ss indented, and weighs a fifth more than the left. The volume of the luuf/s varies with the amount of contained air. In a new- born child, who has not breathed, the lungs occupy but a small part of the chest, seeming to be crowded upward and backward by the diaphragm, which stands at the level of the third rib. But they quickly expand when respiration is estab- lished, and thenceforth occupy all of the chest, except the central portion, as before stated. As, however, the capacity of the thorax is constantly fluctuating, owing to the respiratory movements, the lungs, which accompany the chest-walls in all of their advances and retreats, experience coincident and corresponding variations. The arerar/e capacity of the lungs is estimated to be nearly seven and a half pints. The entire respiratory surface at a moderate calculation is more than 870 square feet, and some estimates place it very much higher. On account of the contained air the lungs are very light, and float readily in water. Fatal pxdmonary tissue, however, never having contained air, is not very unlike liver in its specific gravity, as well as in its appearance, and sinks in765 THE PLEURJE. 1 Avater; and the presence or absence of the capacity of floating is a ready test of the establishment of breathing, where infanticide is snsjjected. The lung substance or parenchyma is soft and spongy, and gives a crackling sound and a corresponding tactile sensation, when it is pressed between the finger and thumb, probably due to the crushing of the walls of the air-vesicles. The cohesive power of the lung is great, and it resists a high degree of pressure with- out rupturing. On account of the great figure played l)y the elastic tissue in the structure of the pulmonary substance, the lungs return readily to their former size immediately on the removal of the force which has caused their expansion. Tlic yellow fibrous tissue is always on the stretch in the normal condition, but never has an opportunity to assert its full power, even after death, unless the chest- cavity is opened. At a post-mortem examination the removal of the sternum and costal cartilages is instantly folk)wed by the sudden collapse of the lungs, which are reduced to one-third (or less) of their normal bulk, the explanation being simply this : during life the air-pressure on the inside of the lung is sufficient to prevent the full action of the elastic tissue ; but, air being let in on the outer sur- f\ice of the lung, the atmospheric pressure inside exactly balances that outside, and the elasticity of the pulmonary substance, being unresisted, displays its full power. The color of the lung differs widely according to age. Before respiration is established, it is a deep reddish-brown ; on inflation it changes to a lieautiful rose- pink ; in early adult life it is grayish-white ; in early middle life it becomes brown- ish in spots and streaks ; and in old age it is often bluish-black. The alteration from the antenatal hue to the postnatal is manifestly due to the distention of the hing with air—the color is diluted by distribution over a multiplied surface ; but the other changes are largely caused by the deposition, in the areolar tissue between the infundibula and between the lobules, of carbonaceous particles, which have been taken up by the lymphatics. In the lungs of people who breathe air highly contaminated with such materials the changes occur much earlier in life, and are much more pronounced. This deposit makes a great deal clearer the out- lines of the lobules, and upon the free lung-surface their bases may be observed, occupying irregular ]>olygonal areas from one-quarter of an inch and upward in diameter. Within these may be seen the outlines of the air-vesicles, measuring perhaps inch across. Lymphatics are abundant in the areolar septa and in the bronchial mucous membrane, and are said to have been traced upon the walls of the alveoli. They drain these parts into the nodes in the root of the lung. The nerve-terminations are not known. The nerve-supply is from the pneumo- gastric and the sympathetic. THE PLEUR-a:. Each lung is invested with a serous membrane, the pleura (from the Greek word for " side ") (Fig. 826). It is a perfectly typical shut-sac, one portion of which closely envelops the lung, entering its fissures and clothing their walls to the very bottom, and is called the visceral layer, or the ptdmonctry pleura ; and the other portion lines the walls of the great space in which the lung is contained, and is called the parietal layer. Different pf)rtions of the parietal layer are dis- tinguished by special names, which indicate their position. That which lines the ribs, costal cartilages, and intermediate muscles is tlie costal pleura; that wliich is attached to the diaphragm is the diapliragmatic pleura ; that which is ajijjlied to the adjacent structures in the mediastinum is the mediastinal pleura,; and that rising into the root of the neck and covering the dome of the lung is the cervical pleura. As a general rule the pulmonary or visceral pleura is in contact with some part of the parietal pleura ; but in the fissures of the lung two layers of visceral pleura are in contact, and below the sharp, infei'ior border of the lung the two766 THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. layers of the parietal pleura come together ; for, although the lung everywhere else tills the s])ace delimited by the pleura, it does not, even in the fullest inspira- FiG. 826.—Relations of lungs (red) and pleura (blue) to the front walls of chest. (Testut.) tion, reach completely to the depths of this extra space (Fig. 827). We speak of a pleural cavity, but this is merely a term of convenience, and is not descriptive CAVITY OF PERICARDIUM DUODENUM Fig. 827.—Coronal section of trunk, showing rehitions of thoracic and abdominal viscera. of anything which normally exists. The pleural cavity is virtual, and becomes actual only when some fluid (air, serum, pus) gets between the layers as a resultTHE LA R YNX. 767 of accident or disease. In health only enough serous fluid is found between the layers to lubricate them and allow slipping of one upon the other with the least possible friction. The right jileura extends downward in the axillary line to the lower border of the ninth rib ; the left pleura goes to the border of the tenth rib, the greater thickness of the liver on the right side explaining the difference. The pleural sacs of the two sides nearly meet at the mid-line of the sternum. At the hilum of the lung the ])ulmonary pleura from al)ove is reflected to the root, and thence to the mediastinal ])ieura; the visceral layers in front of and behind the vertical plane of the hilum not only cover the root, but come together directly beneath it, and form a double-layered, triangular sheet, extending vertically from the root of the lung to the diajihragm, and laterally from the lung to the mediastinal pleura. This fold is the broad ligament of the lung. The pleura upon the lung is delicate and so closely attached that it cannot be readily separated. The costal pleura is thick, and easily detached. The cervical pleura is liable to be injured in operations just above the clavicle. The visceral pleura is supplied by the bronchial artei'ies ; the diaphragmatic and costal by the diaphragmatic and intercostal arteries ; and the mediastinal l)y the posterior mediastinal, bronchial, internal mamraaiy, and superior diaphrag- matic. The nerves of the parietal pleura are the intercostal, pneumogastric, phrenic, and sympathetic ; of the pulmonary pleura branches from the pulmonary plexus. THE LARYNX. The larynx is that portion of the air-passages which is so specially modified that it serves as the principal organ of voice. It connects the upper end of the trachea with the pharynx, and lies in front of the lowest segment of the latter, being itself thinly covered anteriorly by muscles, fasciae, and skin. It is the occasion of the protrusion {p&mum Adami) which is plainly to be felt, and in adult males generally to be seen, in the middle of the fore part of the neck. Its framework consists of a series of firm cartilages, held to each other, to the wind- pipe and to the hyoid bone by ligaments, which permit varying degrees of motion. Mucous membrane, continuous with that of the jiharynx above, and the trachea below, lines the larynx, the cavity of which is wide at both ends, but constricted in the middle in such a way that a median, fore-and-aft cleft, the glottis (rima glottidis, " the cleft of the glottis ") is produced. During ordinary, easy breathing, the cleft is wide open, and no noise is made ; but, if it is narrowed, voice is caused by the forcible discharge of air from the lungs, and the pitch is determined by the degree of the narrowing, a nearly complete closure resulting in a high tone, and a large separation determining a low one. The sides of the glottis are composed of fibrous bands, wdiich are approximated and separated by the action of the muscles which cause movements of 'the cartilages. These bands are known as the true vocal cords, and are the most essential jDortion of the organ- ism of the larynx, the work of other parts being directed to the production of proper attitudes in these cords. Besides its cons])icuous function in the production of voice the larynx \)cr- forms an important service in preventing the entrance to the air-passages below it of substances in process of being swallowed. This is accomplished mainly by the complete closure of the chink of the glottis. The same act, accomplished when the lungs are full, serves to prevent the expiration of the air, and thus to fix the diaphragm and make jiossible such compression of certain hollow organs of the abdomen as is necessary for the expulsion of their contents, as in defeca- tion, micturition, vomiting, parturition.768 THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. The Cartilages of the Larynx. The principal cartilages of the larynx are tlie criecjid, tliyroid, arytenoid, and epiglottic. The cricoid cartilage (Fig. 828) is the lowt'st, and a firm union exists between it and the uppermost cartilage of the trachea. It derives its name from its ARYTENCID ARTICU- LAR FACCTS Fig. 828.—Criouid cartilage, front, right lateral, and rear views. (Testut.) resemblance to a finger-ring, and it is so placed that the signet of the ring is behind, its hoop in front. The thyroid cartilage (Fig. 829), so named from its resemblance to a shield, is Fig. 829.—Thyroid cartilage, front and rear views. (Testut.) the largest of the set, and rests upon the cricoid. At each side it presents a squarish plate, and the two unite in a median line at the lower half of their front edges, leaving a deep notch above their line of union. The hind border of each CORNICULUM LARYNGIS CRICOID AR- VOCAL TICULAR PROCESS FACET Fig. 830.—Arytenoid cartilages, hind view. (Testut.) Fig. 831.—Arytenoid cartilages, front view. (Testut.) plate is projected downward in a process, and upward and backward in another proee; The arytenoid cartilages (Figs. 830, 831), fancifully named " pitcher-like," areTHE LARYNX. 769 CORPUS TRITICEUM LATERAL THYRO- HYOID LIGAMENT two in number, are located upon the upper and Iiack part of the cricoid, and are irregularly pyramidal in shape. UjJon the summit of each is a comicidum laryngis (" little horn of the lar- ynx"), somewhat cone-shaped, and bent backward and downward. (The cuneiform cartilages will be mentioned later.) The epiglottic cartilage (Fig. 832), situated, as its name implies, upon (or over) the glottis, is shaped like an oval leaf, its stem Ijcing received in the notch between the two wings of the thyroid. Its hind surface is concave above, and is convex below this, the pi'ominence in the centre being called the cushion. The cricoid, the thyroid, and the arytenoids (except the ajjices of the last) are composed of pure cartilage ; the rest of the cartilages are of the yellow variety. The true cartilages are liable to ossify at any time after maturity is at- tained. At puberty the lary n x under- goes great changes of growth, which are especially marked in the male, and are prevented by castration. The position and relations of each of the cartilages are shown in Fig. 832. The Ligaments of the Larynx. The cartilages of the larynx are movably articulated \\\{\\ one another at various jjoints. The lower cornua of the thvroid articulate with the raised oval Fk hind. . 832.—Laryngeal cartilages a\v\ ligaments from be- (Testut.) facets on the outer side of the cricoid ; at the upper and outer parts of the signet of the cricoid ; and the cornic- ula are usually attached to the apices of the arytenoid pyramids in such a way that motion is permitted. In all of these cases the movement is gliding, or rotary, or both, the car- tilages concerned in a joint ai"e united by a capsular ligament, and the artic- ulation has a true synovial membrane. In addition to these there are numerous ligamentous bands, the most of them largely composed of yellow fibrous tissue, which serve to close in the gaps between nearly related cartilages, and by their elasticity to i^estore the connected parts when they have been displaced by the action of muscles. The names which these ligaments bear are suggestive of situation and action, as they are mostly composed of the names of the cartilages which they connect, and usuallyalso containsome indication of their relative position. 49 the arytenoids are jointed with the surfaces LATERAL THYRO- HYOID LIGAMENT front. i. »i3.~ Laryngeal cartilages and ligaments from in (Testut.)770 THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. The m'uMle crieo-thi/roid tif/aiiicnt (Fi^. 83.'>) connects in front tlic ujipcr border of the cricoid with the lower border of the tliyroid. On each side this ligament is prolonged backward as the lateral crico-thyroid ligament (Figs. 834, 835), which is attached below to the upper margin of the cricoid, but above, instead of running to the opjX)sed edge of the thyroid, it slopes inward in its upward course, and is attached in front to the Fig. 834.—Diagram of coronal section of lateral crico-thyroid Fig. 835.—Diagram of sagittal sec- ligaments. (F .H. G.) tion of larynx, showing lateral crico- thyroid ligament of right side. (F. H. G.) arytenoid, and between these two points it is unattached. From its connections it would I)e more descriptively named crico-thryo-arytenoid. Its free margin, stretching between the thyroid and the arytenoid, is often called the inferior thifro- arytmoid ligament. This last is thick, flattened toward the middle line, and sharp on the upper edge. Covered with mucous membrane it con.stitutes one of the true vocal, cords (Fig. 836). Close to the inferior is the superior thi/ro-oryfcnoid ligament, arising a little above it on the thyroid, and inserted upon the ridge on the front surface of the arytenoid. It is small, and with its covering of mucous membrane forms the upper or false vocal cord (Fig. 830). APEX OF SUP. HORN OF THYROID CARTILAGE LATERAL GLOSSO- MIDDLE GLOSSO- EPIGLOTTIC FOLD EPIGLOTTIC FOLD Fin. 836.—Larynx, viewed from almvo. (Testut.) From the cricoid to the inner, lower, and back part of the arytenoid is the j crico-arytenoid ligament. The epiglottic cartilage is attached to the thyroid in the ' angle between its alse by the thyro-epigloftic ligament. Finally from the antero-771 THE LARYNX. external surface of the arytenoid to the lateral border of the epiglottic cartilage riMis the aryteno-epk/httle ligament, in which is usually found a small, yellow tihro-cartilage, called the cumeiform, cartUaf/e. All of these ligaments are in symmetrical pairs, cxcej)t the middle crico- thyroid and the thyro-epiglottic, which are single and median, with bilateral symmetry. Besides these ligaments, which are called "intrinsic" from their forming a part of the larynx, there are others which connect it with the hyoid bone above and the trachea below, and are named " extrinsic " on account of their situation outside of the larynx (Fig. 833). The connection between the larynx and trachea is almost precisely like that between neighboring cai'tilages of the latter. From the anterior notch of the thyroid to the body of the hyoid extends the somewhat elastic middle thyro-liyo'ul ligamerd ; and from the upper edges of the alse and front margins of the superior horns of the thyroid to the lower borders of the great cornua of the hyoid stretch the very elastic lutcfal tJti/ro-hyoid ligaments, each perforated by the superior laryngeal vessels, and having in its hind edge a little bit of cartilage, the corpus triticeum (" wheat-like body "). The Muscles of the Larynx. The muscles of the larynx, like its ligaments, are divided into two groups— the extrinsic, which are outside of, but act u])on, it; and the intrinsic, which are attached at both ends to parts of the larynx, and move these parts upon each other. The former are the sterno-thyroideus, thyro-hyoideus, stylo-pharyngeus, palato-pharyngeus, and constrictor inferior pharyngis, and are described in other places. The intrinsic are the following : C'rico-thyroideus, crieo-arytenoideus posterior, crico-arytenoideus lateralis, thyro-arytenoideus, thyro-epiglottideus, aryteno-epiglottideus, arj^tenoideus. All of these muscles are in synmietrical pairs, except the last, which is single, but bilaterally symmetrical. Their names are a guide to their situation, and suggestive of their action. They are members of the rather small class of muscles whose names are alnK)st invariably Anglicized among English- speaking people, generally by the elimi- nation of the terminal e>is, and, in the case of the third, of the last two let- ters of lateralis also. They are so plainly exhibited in the figures that elaborate description is unnecessary. Normally, they always act in pairs, and their action affects two things—the width of the aperture of the glottis, and the tension of the true vocal cords. The crico-thyroid muscle (Fig. 837) arises from the lower border of the ala of the thyroid and the front edge of its lower horn,cfmvergesdownwardand for- ward, and is inserted into the front and side of the cricoid. The thyroid being fixed, the anterior part of the pair of muscles lifts the front of the cricoid upward, and the portion of the cricoid behind the crico-thyroid articulation is, consequently, tilted downward, and, as this carries the arytenoids with it, the true vocal cords are tightened. The hind STERNO- THYROIDEUS Fig. 8R7.—Mnsfles of larynx, front view. The sterno-thyroids and right thyro-liyoid have been re- moved. "(Testut.)THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. 772 part of the muscle contributes to this result by drawing the cricoid backward. Nerve, the superior laryngeal. The posterior crico-arytenoid muscle (Figs. 838, 839) arises from nearly a lateral half of the hind surface of the cricoid, and converges to the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid, into which it is inserted. Tlie two muscles draw their points of insertion backward and toward each other, and thus cause a diver- gence of tlie anterior processes and the vocal cords which are attached to them. Xerve, the inferior laryngeal. The lateral crico-arytenoid muscle (Fig. 838) arises from the side of the upper border of the cricoid, passes upward and backward, and is in.serted into the exter- FiG. 838.—Muscles of larynx, right side. The ri^bt fila of the thvroid cartilage has been cut through and turned down. (Testut.i nal angle of the arytenoid. The two cause approximation of the vocal cords by pulling the external arytenoid angles forward and downward, thus turning -the^^; anterior angles inward. Xerve, the inferior laryngeal. The thyro-arytenoid muscle (Fig. 838) consists of an internal portion, which occupies the most of the triangular space included in tlie mucous fold enwrapping the true vocal cord ; and a broad, external portion, flattened laterally against the inner surface of the thyroid ala. It arises from the lower half of the hind sur- face of the thyroid near its angle, and from the adjacent surface of the crico- thyroid ligament. It converges backward, outward, and upward, and is inserted (internal part) into the vocal process and (external pai't) into the adjacent por- tion of the outer surface and the outer angle of the arytenoid. The pair draws the arytenoids forward, relaxing the vocal cords. Xerve, the inferior laryn- geal. The thyro-epiglottic muscle (Fig. 838) arises from the thyroid, just above the thyro-arvtenoid, passes u])ward and backward, and is inserted into the side of the epiglottic cartilage. It depresses the epiglottis. Xerve, the inferior laryn- geal.THE LARYNX. 773 The aryteno-epiglottic muscle (Fig. 838) arises near the apex of the arytenoid, passes forward and upward, and is inserted into the side of the epiglottic cartilage. With its mate it draws the epiglottis backward and downward. Xervc, the inferior laryngeal. The arytenoid muscle (Fig. 838) (ary-ary- tenoid) connects the two arytenoid cartilages, being attached to the outer half of the con- cavity on the back of each. The ventral fibres are transverse, but the dorsal are arranged in two oblique bundles, which cross each other, and are continued into neighboring muscles— the thyro-arytenoid, aryteno-epiglottic, and lateral crico-arytenoid—as well as inserted each into the highest part of the opposite arytenoid cartilage. The muscle draws the arytenoid cartilages together, thus closing the part of the rima glottidis included between them. Nerves, the superior and inferior lar- yngeal. It will be observed that the arytenoid mus- cle has both the superior and inferior laryngeal nerves distributed to it; the crico-thyroid the superior only; and all of the other muscles the inferior only. Fig, R39.—Muscles of larynx, from be- hind. (Testut.) 841). is continued from the the epiglottic cartilage and inward to the superior thyro- ARVTENo- iPIGLOTTIDEUS The Lining of the Larynx (Figs. 840 Mucous membrane lines the larynx throughout. It mucosa of the tongue and pharynx, extends over from the aryteno-epiglottic ligaments downward and arytenoid ligaments, which it covers on their median and under surfaces, constituting with them the suj^erior, or false, vocal cords. The mem- brane is continuous below with that of the trachea, and lines the inner surface of each of the lateral crico-thyroid liga- ments and the inner and upper surfaces of the thyro-arytenoid ligaments, which with it com- pose the inferior, or true, vocal cords. Between the false and true vocal cords of each side is a narrow horizontal o^^ening of fusiform outline, the aper- ture of a cavity, called the ventricle of the larynx, which extends outward and then bends upward just on the mesial side of the upper jjart of the thyro-arytenoid muscle, and is lined with mucous membrane prolonged from that of the vocal cords. From the front of the ventricle extends upward a laryngeal pouch (sacmhis laryngis), which is narrow, long, and embedded in fat. CBICO THYROIDEUS VOCAL CORD Fig. 840.—Coronal section of lurvnx. (Testut.) rear view of front half;.774 THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. Tlie mucosa is pale and thin, L'S[H'c'ially upon the true vocal cords. In most parts its epithelium is columnar and ciliated, l)ut just ahove the false vocal cords it becomes flattened and stratified, and it is of this kind also upon the true vocal Fig. 841.—Sagittal suLtiun of larynx, right lialf. (Testut.) cords, and in small areas elsewhere. Bt'ueath the meml)rane in the aryteno-cpi- glottic region is a good deal of loose areolar tissue. Mucous glands are numerous and large, excepting on and about the true vocal cords. APEX OF SUP. HORN OF THYROID CARTILAGE LATERAL GLOSSO- MIDDLE GLOSSO- EPIGLOTTIC FOLD EPIGLOTTIC FOLD Fig. 842.—Larynx, vii'Wril fruni above. (Testut.) Viewing the larynx from above (Fig. 842), an u])per opening is seen, its front wide and semicircular, its sides driftiuir together behind and below in an undulating curve. The anterior boundary of this aperture is made by the epi-THE LARYNX. 775 glottis, tilt' (lownwai'd-sloping sides by the aryteiio-epiglottic folds of mucous membrane, wliieh run from the sides of the epiglottis to the tojis of the arytenoid cartilages, and are nodulated by the cuneiform and corniculate cartilages. Througli this wide aperture are seen in front the backward projection from the surface of tlie epiglottis called its cushion ; on the siiles, diverging backward and outward, the upper or false vocal cords ; farther down in the cavity and nearer the median line the true vocal cords, and, on a level with them, the inner margins of the bases of the arj'tenoid cartilages ; and finally, occupying the middle line and a little s])ace on each side of it, the rima glottidis. This chink of the glottis is about an inch in its fore-and-aft measurement, the front two-thirds of this being bounded laterally by the true vocal cords, the hind third by the arytenoid cartilages. The portion between the vocal cords is called the vocal ]mrt, from its function in the |)r<iduetion of voice ; the portion between the arytenoids is known as the respiratory part, on account of its use in the process of breathing.! I 1777 THE URINARY SYSTEM. By p. H. GERRISH. THE double function of appropriation and flimination belongs both to the ali- nientarv and to the respiratory systems, each being concerned in the supply of new material, and also in the casting oft'of eft'ete substances. But the urinary svsteni is simply excretory : its only ofiice is relieving the body of certain waste products, which, if allowed to remain in it, would injure the organism, and ulti- mately destroy life. Tiie organs of the urinary system are the two hidneys, which form the urine from materials furnished by the blixtd ; the ureters, ducts whicli convey the urine away from the kidneys ; the bladder, a reservoir in which the urine is stored until circinnstances are convenient for its discharge ; and the urethra, a tube thi'ough which the urine passes from the bladder, and is finally voided. THE KIDNEYS. The essential organs of the urinary system are the kidneys. The materials which they abstract from the blood are in solution in water, and this solution is the urine. The formation of this fluid is constant; and, as fast as it is produced, it is conducted to the bladder. In some details of gross anatomy the two kid- neys differ slightly, as will be related subsequently ; but functionally they are identical, and the physiological anatomy of one is exactly like that of the other. A kidney is a compound, tubular gland—a vast multitude of microscojn'c tubes, all lined with epithelial cells, and abundantly supjilicd with blood-vessels. The study of a single one of these tubes reveals the physiological anatomy of the kidney, and with that it is best to begin. A uriniferous tube starts as a hollow globe (the cajisule) ; then come in regular succession a constricted part (the neck), a tortuous (the proximal convoluted tube), an undulating and twisted (the spiral tube), a long portion bent so aljruptly near its middle that the two parts are parallel (the looped tube), a ])ortion with a zig- zag contour, full of short lines and marked angles (the irregular tube), a second tortuous part (the distal convoluted tube), a short, arching part (the junctional or arched collecting tube), and, finally, a long portion (the straight collecting tube), the wide, terminal part of Avhich is called the excretory tube.' The various parts of this long tube diflx'r not only in shape and direction but in diameter. All of these features will be seen in the part of Fig. 846, at the extreme left. Structure of a Uriniferous Tube.—The tube is composed of a basement mem- brane and a single layer of epithelial cells, which rest upon it and vary in form according to their situation. In most narrow portions of the tube and in the capsule they are flattened ; in the neck and collecting tubes they are cuboidal or columnar ; and elsewhere they are somewhat cuboidal and granidar toward the ' The capsule is called also the capsule of Bowman, the looped tube is known as Henle's, the irregular bears the name of Schachowa, and the excretory is known as the duct of Bellini.778 THE URINARY SYSTEM. bore (this part containing a large nucleus), and toward the membrane they look like a mass of rods and their sides are grooved. Where the tube is not very small, the lumen occupies only about one-third of the entire diameter on account of the relative thickness of the cells. The tube is envelo])ed in a network of blood-vessels, from whose contents its cells abstract the ingredients of the urine. The vascular apj)aratns will l>e desci'ibed later on. Lobes of the Kidney.—It has been estimated tliat each kidney contains about half a million capsules, and fifteen miles of tub- ing. The disposition of this vast number of tubes is very intricate, and yet so regular as to jn'oduce practically invariable gross appearances in ditferent parts of the compound organ. In some lower animals the kidney, instead of being a single, coherent mass, consists of a munher of similar lobes, so slightly united that the appear- ance of the organ suggests a bunch of grapes. A condition a])proac]iingthis obtains in the human embryo, though the independence of the lobes is not as marked (Fig. 843). The study of the naked-eye appearances of a separate lobe is neces- sary to an understanding of the arrangement of tlie tubes. An Ideal Lobe.—Each lol)e is like a cone whose apex has been cut off, and its place sup- plied by the ajiex of a smaller cone (Fig. 844). A vertical section through the middle of this cone brings to view a cut surface in which are seen two apparently distinct kinds of material (Fig. 845). Within is a triangular portion, red and streaked with alternating dark and light lines from base to apex ; and, enclosing this, except at Fig. R43.—I\L'tal lobes. (Testut.) kidnev, showin" (F. Fig. 844.—Diagram of a lobe of the kidney. H. G.) Fig. 84.5.—Diagram of a vertical section of a lobe of the kidney. (F. H. G.) the apex, is a thick, lighter colored, granular part. The former is the medulla (" the pith "), or medullary pyramid; the latter is the cortex (" the bark "), or cortical portion. Reckoning from the base to the apex of the lobe, the cortex occupies a little more than a third of the distance. A fibrous capsule covers it, and a thin stratum of the cortex just beneath this is called the subcapsular layer. The pyramid is divided into two parts—a smaller called the papillary zone, from its including the apex (papilla), and a larger, known as the marginal, boundary, or limiting zone, this being darker and more distinctly striated. Intruding from779 THE KIDNEYS. Fig. S46.—Diagram of the structure of a lobe of the kidney. The lobe is seen In vertical section, the cortex being marliecl off from tlie medulla. Four medullary rays encroach upon the cortex. At the left is shown the course of a single, continuous series of tubes—the straight and spiral tubes appearing in the medullary ray, the straight, looped, and excretory in the medulla proper, the capsule, neck, convoluted, irregular, and arched in the cortex proper. Next is seen the labyrinth, composed of a mass of tubes in the cortex, with a medullary ray for a centre. Eqviidistant from the ray on each side is a broken red line, marking the position of an inter- lobular artery. The ]Kirt< betwcfii thcsi' lines c (institute a lobule. Farther to the right is an interlobular artery, giving"off lateral bniiii-lies (atTcrcnl vess. lsi, riicli of which ends in a tuft of capillaries, from which the blood is collected by an etl'ereiit vessel. Tlie u|iperii]i)St of the tufts is shown enclosed in a capsule. On the riglit of the iTiti-rlnl>ular artery the efferent vessels break up into a capillary network, wliich surrounds the (unropn'scntril I tubes in the cortex and ray. The lowest efferent sends vertic'il vessels also into t lie medulla. On the riglit the interlobular vein is seen gathering the blood from all tlie parts su]iplie<i by the interlobiUar artery. A branch of the renal artery courses upward between cortex and medulla, and forms an arch (here broken) over the base of the medulla. From it the interlobular arteries pass upward into the cortex, and straight branches go downward into the mednlla, supplying its structure, and ending at the apex in the capil- laries. From the last the radicles of the renal vein arise, and accompany the straight arteries to the base of the medulla, where a venous arch is formed, continnons with which is the vena comes of the enteringarterj;. The calyx embraces the apex of the medullary pyramid. It is lined with epithelium, which continues from it over the apex, the latter lieing perforated witli the many apertures of excretory tubes.THE URINARY SYSTEM. 780 the mecliillary portion into the cortical are a number of narrow triangles, their bases resting on the base of the pyramid, and their apices reaching nearly to the subcapsnlar layer. They are called meduUary rays (pyramids of Ferrein), on acconnt of their radiation from the medulla. The diagram (Fig. 8-16 ) \y\\\ sho^y that these yarious appearances are due jirin- cipally to the arrangement of the different portions of the tubes. It will be seen that in the medullary rays are all of the spiral tubes, and the uppermost parts of the straight collecting tubes and of the ascending ]iml)S of the looped tubes (distal spiral tubes), these being placed side by side in line with the chief axis of the ray, the longest being in the middle. In the remaining and greater part of the cortex are the capsules and their necks, and the conyoluted, irregular, and arched collecting tubes, all so intricateh' intermingled as to produce the granular look of the part, and to merit the name of labi/rinth. The medulla contains the greater part of the length of the looped and of the collecting tubes ; and, as these are straight and side by side, the delicate striation of the medulla is explained. The broad alternating dark and light streaks in the pyramid are due to a yascular distribution as will presently be seen. The Vessels of the Kidney.—The arteries enter the lobe in the cortical sub- stance at the sides of the pyramid. When they reach the leyel of the base of the pyramid, they turn inward and run across between the medullary and cortical portions, constituting the arterial arches, and giying branches upward into the cortex, and, according to most authorities, branches downward into the medulla. The branches to the cortex, called inferlohuktr, enter the cortex half way between the medullary rays, and giye off short side-twigs, the afferent vessels (''the yessels carrying to "), each of which terminates in a globular bunch of capillaries, the glomerulus, or Malpighian tuft. This tuft is commonly described as being inside of the capsule, which is the beginning of a uriniferous tube, and, in one sense, this is correct. But, from the physiological point of yiew, the tuft is outside of the capsule ; for it is related to it only as if it had pushed in and stretched the capsular wall at a point opposite the neck, carrying eyerything before it until the cayity was nearly obliterated. The cells now lining the capsule are compar- able with the parietal layer of a serous membrane, and those coyering the glom- erulus with its visceral layer. The capsule and tuft together are called the Mal- pighian body. The blood leaves the tuft through a vessel, called efferent (" carrying781 THE KIDNEYS. ' from "), which emerges beside tlie afferent. It is proljably an artery, although it is often spoken of as a vein. It breaks up into a close capillary plexus, which surrounds the secreting tubes in the cortex. From this network come venous radicles, which empty into minute veins, the interlobular, accompanying the inter- lobular arteries. These veins terminate in venous nrcJiefi between the cortex and medulla, and thence leave the lobe by the track taken by the artery in entering. The lowest efferent vessels give pencils of capillaries to the tubes in the medulla. The branches from the under side of the arterial arches, always accompanied bv corresponding i-adicles of the venous arches, lie between the tubes of the pyra- mid in regular parallel groups, producing the darker lines in the alternating .series of stripes of the boundary zone. These vessels are named vnsa recta. On their wav to the papilla the arterioles give capillaries to the tubes, and at the papilla these end in venous radicles, which run straight up to the suprapyramidal venous arches. The vessels in the cortex, which run vertically to the vascular arches, mark the limits of the primary lobules of the labyrinth, and hence are called " interlobular.^^ A transverse section of the cortex shows the lobulation, each lobule having a cir- cular bundle of tubes, the medullary ray in its centre, and a tangled mass of tubes around it. At the apex of the papilla the uriniferous tubes end as the excretory tubes (ducts of Bellini) in from ten to eighty openings, called foramina papillaria, producing the ap)iearance of the nozzle of a watering-pot, through which the urine constantly trickles. As it escapes it is received into the upper end of the excretory duet of the lobe, which is here expanded and resembles a cup, from which it is named the calyx. The rim of the calyx is attached around the base of the |)a])illa. The surface of the papilla is covered with mucous membrane, which is continuous with that lining the calyx and the rest of the excretory duct. Framework of the Kidney.—The capsule which covers the lobe is a condensed areolar tissue, which is continuous with that clothing the calyx, and immediately beneath it is a delicate stratum of unstriped muscular tissue. Quite a bundle of this last material surrounds the pyramid just above the attachment of the calyx. The tubes and vessels are supported by interstitial connective tissue, which is small in amount, except around the Malpighian bodies and in the pajiillary region. It is condensed at the surface, where it is intimately connected with the true capsule. Coalescence of the Lobes (Fig. 848).—-There are from eight to twenty lobes in a kidney, and each of them answers to the foregoing description. Beginning as separate jjarts, they afterward coalesce at their adjacent surfaces, and the fusion is so perfect that the included portions of the tunic disappear, and the lines of con- tact cannot be traced. The apices of the lobes converge, and the papillfe project into a centi'al cavity, the sinus. A section of the kidney after the union of its lobes shows that the pyramids are separated by masses of cortical substance, the columns of Berlin, and that there is more of this between the pyramids than there is elsewhere. The incongruity of calling that ]) irt of an organ its bark, which is mostly not on the outside, is not dissipated until one learns that the name " cor- tex " is applied ]irimarily to the outer layer of renal substance in the individual lobes—a use of the term eminently descriptive in the circumstances—and it is not abandoned when the lobes are fused. The part of the cortex, whose title to the name in the compound kidney no one would think of disputing, presents in verti- cal section the appearance of curving across the base of each pyramid from one column to another, whence the name cortical arches. The coalescence of the lobes often goes so far that the aj)ices of two pyramids become fused into one, their bases continuing separate ; so that in a kidney with fourteen pyramids there may be only ten papillfe. Gross Features of the Kidney (Figs. 849, 850).—The kidney (in Latin rev, from which comes the adjective " renal"), made up of lobes as just described, is somewhat bean-shaped, presenting a convex front surface, and a flattened back782 THE URINABY SYSTEM. ID Fig. 848-Vertical section of kidney, showing the secreting portion, the vessels, and the beginnings of the ureter. (Testut.) surface ; rounded upper and lower ends, the former being- a little the larger ; a convex outer bordei-, and an inner border, which has a notch, called the Idlum. SUPERIOR SUPRA- FlG. 849.-Right kianey. ventral aspect. (Testut.) Fig. 850.-Right kidney, dorsal aspect. (Testut.) The hiluni presents a vertical cleft, Avith rounded front and back li])s, and this is the narrowed entrance to the cavity (sinus) of the kidney. The mius is a deep783 THE KIDNEYS. excavation, flattened from before backward, and reaching half way from border to border. The papillaj project into it, and it encloses the divisions of the renal vessels, the Ijeginiiings of the excretory apparatus, lymphatic vessels and nodes, nerves, and a quantity of adipose tissue, which fills the spaces left unoccupied by these structures, and affords an elastic bed upon which they rest. The outer tunic extends into the sinus through the hilum, becomes continuous with the sheaths of the vessels, and is reflected onto the calices. The kidney is about 4| inches long, 2] inches vide, and 1} inch thick. It toeifjhs from 4 to 4^ ounces. Its surface is smooth, no traces of the foetal separa- tion of the lobes remaining. It is of a reddish-brown color. It has a firmer consistence than either liver or spleen, but is lacerated by moderate force. The artery of the kidney is the renal, and is large relatively to the size of the organ it sup])lies (Fig. 851). It divides into four branches, which pass into the sinus, and then break up into vessels, which enter the columns of Bertin, and pursue a course, which has already been described. The surface of the kid- ney receives small branches from the suprarenal, spermatic, and limibar arteries. The veins course side by side with the arteries. The lyrnplmtie vessels are numer- FiG. 851.—The kidneys, the ureters, and the bladder, in their normal position. (Testut.) ous, especially in the labyrinth, and there are several nodes in the sinus. Both the superficial and deep lymphatics are triliufary to the lumbar nodes. The renal nerves come from the renal plexus and small splanchnic. They accompany the arteries, but have not been traced beyond the interlobular. Some fibres from theTHE URINARY SYSTEM. 784 pneumogastric, also, have been observed. About two-thirds of the anterior sur- face is invested with jjerito)ieitm. Situation of the Kidneys.—The kidneys are situated at the back of the abdo- men, one on each side of the spinal column, behind the peritoneal cavity, on a level with the bodies of the twelfth thoracic and upper two or three lumbar ver- tebrae, the right being about one-half inch lower tlian the left. The long axis of each is directed from above downward and a little outward, so that the upper ends are nearer the middle line than are the lower. Their hind surfaces look backward and inward. Their lower ends are two inches or less above the iliac crests. Supports of the Kidneys.—The kid- neys are kept in place by their ves- sels, the peritoneum, and the abund- ant fatty tissue in which they are embedded, and which constitutes the " adipose capsule" of some authors. Relations of the Kidneys (Fig. 852).—The upper end of each kidney is capped by a suprarenal body, which laps over ujjon the front surface and inner border. The hind surface of each is in relation to the last rib, the diaphragm, and the cpiadratus lum- borum and psoas mpgnus muscles. The anterior surface of the right kid- ney is related from above downward to the suprarenal body, liver, duode- num, ascending colon, and jejuno- ileum ; the anterior surface of the left kidney to the suprarenal body, spleen, stomach, pancreas, splenic flexure, descending colon, and jejuno-ileura. THE EXCRETORY APPARATUS OF THE KIDNEYS. Tlie urine is conducted from the kidneys by the ureters, by them poured into the bladder, and finally discharged from tliis reservoir through the urethra. Fig. 852.-Relations of the left kidney to the lung pleura, ribs, spine, muscles, and hip-bone. (Testut.) The Ureters. The ureter for each kidney begins with the calices which enclose the papillse. They are somewhat fewer than the papillae, because one calyx may embrace two or even three of them. By the convergence and union of the calices in the up])er, middle, and lower regions of the sinus respectively three funnel-shaped tubes, the infundilmla, are formed ; and these focus upon and empty into a large dilatation, the pelvis ("basin"), which terminates in the ureter proper. The pelvis lies partly within and partly outside of the sinus. AYlien seen from front or back its form is suggestive of the bowl of a tobacco-pipe, the tubular ureter standing for the stem ; but it is much compressed antero-posteriorly, having to emerge from the sinus through the hilum, which, although but a narrow slit, gives passage also to the renal vessels, the latter lying in front of the pelvis. The ureter proper is as large as a small goose-quill, about 14 inches long, and passes downward and785 THE BLADDER. Fig. 853.—Diagram showing-meth- od of entrance of the ureter into the bladder. (F. H. G.) inward to the upper level of the saeriim, and thence forward and inward to the base of the bladder, who.se outer coat it perforates, and running obliquely between this and the inner tunic for three-quarters of an inch, opens into the cavity of the bladder by a nar- row slit, which is one and a half inch or less from its opposite fellow and from the begiiming of the urethra (Fig. 853). The practical effect of this arrangement is to prevent the I'eflux of urine from the bladder ; for, although the admission of the fluid is not interfered with, distension of the blad- der so pres.ses together the sides of the channel that not a drop can return to the ureter. Structure of the Ureter.—The ureter has three coats : an inner or mucous, a middle or muscular, and an outer or fibrous. The viueous coat is con- tinuous with that of the bladder below and with that covering the renal papilhe above. Its epithe- lium is stratified, the upj)er layer consisting of cuboidal cells, with concavities on their attached surfaces, into which fit the blunt ends of the j^yriform cells next below, the taper ends of the latter fitting in between the processes of fusiform cells underlying them, and last of all a stratum of irregular cells. There is no well-defined submucous coat. The membrane disjilays longitudinal folds. The muscular tunic has two layers, an outer longitudinal and an inner circular. The fibrous coat is a mixture of the white and yellow varieties ; it is continuous with the renal capsule, which, entering at the hilum, is reflected upon the calices. The ureter is surrounded by areolar tissue. Branches from the renal, spermatic, internal iliac, and inferior vesical arteries supply the ureter, its veins correspond to these, its lymphatics run to the pelvic and lumbar nodes and to the receptaculum chyli, and its innervation comes through the inferior mesenteric, spermatic, and hypogastric plexuses. In its descent the nreter is behind the peritoneum all of the way. The pelvis is opposite the spine of the first lumbar vertebra. Behind the ureter are the psoas muscle, the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, and the common or external iliac vessels. It is covered in front by the spermatic vessels, and the vas deferens runs between it and the bladder. The right nreter has the vena cava inferior at its inner side. In the female the ureter courses beside the cervix uteri, but at the distance of nearly or quite half an inch, and then it obliquely crosses the upper third of the vagina. The Bladder. The bladder (vesica urinaria, " the urinary bladder," always being meant when the noun is not qualified) is the reservoir in which the urine is collected from the ureters, and contained until a convenient time for evacuation. It has four tunics : the mucous, which is that nearest the cavity, and then in order the areolar, the muscular, and the serous. The mucosa, has a stratified epithelium, similar to that of the ureter, is loosely attached to the muscular coat by the areolar, is deficient in well-defined glands and in muscularis mucosae, is smooth when sjn-ead out by accumulation of urine, but, during the empty condition is thrown into irregular rugae, excepting in a small, triangular space (frigonum) between the o]5enings of the ureters and the urethra. This little area is never wrinkled, but is marked in the median line by a slight ridge, the uinda vesicce. The muscular tunic has an onter, longitudinal layer, which runs sagittally ; inside of this a stratum in which the filjres are intricately and irregularly criss-crossed, but have a general transverse (circular) direction, and internal to this an imperfect, thin, longitudinal layer. The serous coat is a reflection of the peritoneum, and is only a partial tunic, covering the superior surface, and the upper and hind part 50786 THE URINARY SYSTE3L of the lateral surfaces, and, in the male, the upper part of the posterior surface. The thickness of tlie combined walls varies much within nornuil limits, being small in distension, great in collapse, and especially marked if there is good tone to the muscular coat. Form, Size, and Position of the Bladder.—Without regarding several widely varying, normal circumstances, it is impossible to speak definitely of the form, size, position, and relations of the bladder. One must know the sex and ajiproxi- mately the age of the indiyidual, whether the organ is empty, ratlier full, or dis- tended, the condition of the muscular coat, and the fact as regards pregnancy. When the bladder is collapsed, its mucous walls fall together in such a way that a sagittal section shows the line between them in the shape of a V with unequal and widely- spread arms, the point of the V indicating the opening of the urethra (Fig. 854). This view affords a means of designation of the most important mrfaees. The part included within the arms of the V we call superior or intestinal surface; that beneath the long arm the anterior or pubic surface ; and that under the short arm, the poaferior or rectal surface, and left lateral surfaces, which are narrow when the ANUS Fig. 854.—Diagram showing the shape, position, and relations of the bladder, when empty. (F. H. G ) Besides these are right organ is empty. When the bladder is moderately full, its sagittal section is very different (Fig. 855). The upper surface has changed from concavity to convexity, all of the others have become rounded, and the angles between the surfaces have vanished. The bladder in these circumstances holds about eight fluidounces, and has not risen out of the pelvic cavity. But, if this amount of urine is much exceeded, the limit of comfort is passed, and pronounced distention obtains, lifting the organ aboye the pelvic brim to a height commensurate with the degree of ful- ness, and bringing it within reach of recognition by abdominal ])ercussion. In the female the bladder is flattened from behind forward, increasing the lateral and dimiuishiug the antero-posterior diame- ters. In the child, the bladder is almost an abdominal organ ; but, with increase of years, it sinks to its adult position in the pelvis. The orifice of the urethra is at the lowest point of the bladder, and is about an inch behind the middle of the pubic symphysis. In old men the posterior wall is liable to sag below this level, and thus permit the retention of a portion of the urine. Enlargement of the prostate gland causes a bulging into the vesical cavity, and raises the opening high above the surrounding walls. There is no constricted part of the bladder which is entitled to be called a neck : the vesical opening of the urethra (meatus urinarius internus) is not funnel-shaped, but occurs as an abrupt aperture. Supports of the Bladder.—The bladder is rather freely movable, but is lield within normal limits in various ways. The recto-vesical jjortion of the pelvic ANUS Fig. 855.—Diagram showing the shape, position and relations of the bladder, when distended H. (J.) (F.787 THE URETHRA. lascia is an im])ortant means of fixation. Around the lower levels of the bladder this faseia is closely united to the muscular tunic, and is sometimes spoken of as a covering of the bladder, thinning out rapidly as it stretches upward. Several parts of this fascia are conventionally described as true Ik/aments of the bladder— two anterior, two lateral, two posterior—but they are usually indistinct, and it is not ini])()rtaut to mention more than the two anterior or pubo-prostatic, which connect the lower part of the pubic Ijody with tlie front of the prostate gland and the adjacent portion of the bladder. Just I)eneatli each of these is a prolongation of the front and lower part of the longitudinal muscular layer, called the rcsico- pubic muscle, connecting bladder and pubis. The urachus and the obliterated hypogastric arteries extend from the junction of the upjjer and anterior surfaces to the umbilicus. Folds of peritoneum aid in mooring the bladder, two posterior being reflected to it from the sides of the rectum, the hollow betw^een them being called the reefo-vesical pondi ; two lateral from the iliac fosste ; and one superior, folded over the urachus. These serous reduplications are called J'uhe lif/cniienfs. The continuity of the vesical, prostatic, and ureteral mucous meml)ranes, the strong areolar and adipose connections of the bladder with all of the immediately neighboring organs, and the blood-ves- sels—all these are factors in the fix- ation of the bladder. Relations of the Bladder.—The pre- vious description has involved inci- dentally so much mention of the relations of the bladder that but little more need be said of them. Its poste- rior surface, which is the widest, rests in the male upon the rectum (Fig. 856). The serous covering of the superior surface extends for a variable distance upon the posterior, and thence is re- flected to the rectum. The line of its lowest attachment to the bladder forms the base of a triangle, Avhose sides are made by the vasa deferentia. The area thus bounded is accessible to surgical operation through the rectum ; but it is unsafe to count upon more than an inch of non-serous surface in the median line between the hind limit of the jirostate gland and the fold of peritoneum, though there may be double this amount. In the female the bladder has behind it the vagina and uterus. When the bladder is distended, the anterior (pubic) surface is so enlarged that it partly rises out of the jielvis, and at the same time the peritoneum is lifted away from the lower part of the abdominal wall, and stretched over the extended area of the superior surface. This leaves a space of two inches or more just above the pubic crest in which an incision can be made w'ithout injuring the peritonemii. The arteries of the bladder are the superior and inferior vesical, and, in the female, the uterine also ; its veins are radicles of the internal iliac ; its Ij/inphafies are tril;)utary to the internal iliac nodes ; and its nerre-supplii is from the third and fourth sacral, and the hypogastric jilexus of the sympathetic. PROS Fig. 856.—Base of tlir Mailder. showing the vasa deferentia and seminal vesk-les. Tlie peritoneum is raised by hooks. (Testut.) The Urethra. The urethra is the tube by which the urine is conducted from the bladder. Its name, like "ureter," is derived from the Greek word which means "to urinate." The male and female urelhne differ so materially that a separate description of each is necessary.THE URINARY SYSTEM. 788 The Female Urethra. Tliis tube (Fig. 857) begins at the meatus urinarius internus iu the l)ladder, and ends at the meatus urinarius externns in tlie vulva. It runs downward and DORSAL VEIN OF CLITORIS PREPUCE OF. CLITORIS GLANS CLI TORI DIS Fig. S.">7.—The female urethra and surrounding parts seen in sagittal section. (Testut.) LONGITUDINAL. MUSCLE CIRCULAR MUSCLE a little forward, curving with the concavity in front. It is about one inch and a half long, and its lumen is about a quarter inch across. It is situated directly in front of, and is closely associated with, the lower part of the anterior wall of the vagina, through which it can be easily felt. Its external orifice is the narrowest part, and is located between the clitoris and the opening of the vagina. The front and rear surfoces of the tube are in contact. The lining is a pale mucous meml)rane, and it is gathered into small, longi- tudinal folds (Fig. 858). Its epithelium is flattened and stratified, excejit at the uppermost part, where it is transi- tional ; its corium is beset with small papilla?, which are most nu- merous near the lower end. Mu- cous glands are abundant. The subnuicous coat is areolar, and contains an unusual proportion of yellow fibrous tissue. Outside of this is the muscular tunic in two layers, an internal longitudinal, and an external circular. At the vesical end of the tube the circular fasciculi are particularly numer- ous, and form a ring, which is erroneously called the sphincter of the bladder, but is properly named the internal sphhicter of the urethra. Between the muscular layers are scattered many elastic fibres. In both layers, and es- pecially in the longitudinal, is a great quantity of blood-vessels, the veins being far more conspicuous by their number and size, and in their arrangement highly suggestive of erectile tissue, Fig. 8.58. (Testut.) -The female urethra, seen in coronal section.789 THE URETHRA. though unlike this in being disseminated throughout the muscular coat, instead of constituting a discrete layer. The female urethra is very distensible, and may be dilated far beyond its usual calibre without loss of its tone. The Male Urethra. The male urethra (Fig. 859) is a tube which carries not only urine, but also semen, and only a small portion nearest the bladder is devoted exclusively to the former use. It extends from the meatus urinarius internus in the bladder to the SPONGY URETHRA Fig. 859.—The male urethra, in sagittal section. (Testut.) meatus urinarius externus at the distal end of the penis. It is divided into three portions : first, the prostatic (called also the prostatic urethra), named from its being contained in the prostate gland ; second, the membranous (called also the membranous urethra), reaching from the distal end of the prostate to the proximal end of the spongy body, and passing through the triangular ligament of the perineum, named because, instead of being embedded in the substance of some organ, as are the other portions, it is a free tube in the greater part of its extent; and third, the spongy portion or the spongy urethra, which occupies the corpus spongiosum of the penis. The length of the urethra varies at different times in the same individual, owing mainly to physiological changes in the condition of the erectile penis, in which the largest part of the urethra is contained. In the flaccid state it measures 6^ inches ; but this length is vastly increased by the erection of the penis. In the common operation of catheterization the urethra is stretched two inches or more. Its length is divided among its three ]iortions as follows : prostatic 1} inch, mem- branous f inch, spongy -ih inches. Tlie first and second parts are not subject to great physiological changes such as characterize the third. The urethra has two pronounced curves. In the prostatic ])ortion its course is nearly perpendicularly downward ; in the membranous it runs downward with a forward sweep ; in tlie spongy it passes forward almost horizontally for two inches, and then bends sharply downward. Thus, the first and second portions describe.790 THE URINARY SYSTEM. a gentle curve which is concave forward, and the tliird portion has a curve (so sharj) as to be ahnost an angle) about midway of its length (Fig. 860). This second curve is obliterated when the body of th(> penis is raised, as in the intro- duction of an instrument to the bladder through the urethra, and also durinir erection. The ]iart of the urethra between this curve and the l)ladder is called Fig. 860,—Proximal portions of urethra witli surrounding parts. (After Testut.) the fixed portion ; but it is ])racticable for a skilled hand to pass a straight instru- ment into the bladder without injuring the tube or its surroundings. The bore of tJie urdhra varies in size and shape in different parts (Fig. 861). The prostatic j^ortion has the largest calibre, measuring one-third of an inch half way of its course, and a little less at its extremities. It is also the most dis- tensible segment. In its hind surface (the floor) is an elevation Avhich rises gradually from behind and then descends more abruptly (Fig. 862). This is called by various names—vemmontmmm, " a mountain spit," caput galUnaginis, "the cock's head," eoJIiodus semlnalis, "the little seminal hill." Fnmi the sum- mit of this ridge a little tubular cavity runs upward and backward for about half an inch, called uterus masrnUints, " the male womb," because it is the homologue of the uterus of the female. It is also called sinus poc»for/s. " the cuplike hol- low," and ves'u'ula jwostatica, " the prostatic vesicle." Upon its lateral lips open the two ejaculatory ducts, through which the semen is squirted into the urethra. On each side of this mound is a groove, the prostatic sinus, into which open the most and the largest of the ducts from the glandular masses of the jn'ostate, the smaller ducts opening in the sides and roof (front surface) of the tube. The jjresence of the crest causes a transverse section of the urethra to look like an inverted U. The membranous portion has a diameter of one-fifth inch or less, which is also that of the meatus externus. The latter is the least dilatable part, and, consequently, an instrument which will pass the meatus will go through every other portion of the canal. Where the membranous urethra perfoi'ates the rigid triangular ligament it is not as readily dilated as elsewhere. The spongy urethra has a calilire between the other portions in size, and uniform except at its extremities. In front for about half an iuch it is dilated and thus forms the fossa iiavieidaris, "the boat-shajied pit," and behind for nearly an inch it M'idens in every direction, making the jx// .s' hu/hosa, " the Inilbous part." The lowest point of the membranous urethra is about one inch beneath the pubic arch. The upper part of this portion is in close relation to the rectum.THE URETHRA. 79] Structure of the Urethra.—The inner coat of the uretlira is mucous membrane, continuous above with that of the bladder, below with the skin. It is unusually rich in elastic fibres. It has, most markedly in the spongy portion, fine longi- tudinal folds, which are effiiced during urination. The tube does not stand open, like the trachea or a severed artery, but opposite surfixces (generally the front and rear) of mucosa are in contact. The epithelium of the prostatic portion is similar to the vesical; in most other parts it is a simple columnar, but for a quarter inch back from the meatus it is of the flattened variety and stratified. Tiie corium is plentifully studded with small jiapillfe. Mucous follicles and race- mose glands are practically everywhere proximal to the navicular fossa. There are also many openings which were formerly thought to belong to glandular structures, but have been ascertained to be blind depressions obliquely set in the I mucosa, their mouths always directed toward the external meatus (Fig. 863). They are lacunce, "little lakes," and are found in the free spongy portion, proxi- mal to the fossa navicularis, in two sets, large and small. The large are one- third inch deep and occur in a single, median row in the anterior (upper) wall ; the small are located principally in the anterior surface and at the sides inTHE URINARY SYSTEM. 792 longitudinal rows. Half an inch or more from the meatus externus in the ante- rior surface is a very large depression, nearly covered by a valve-like fold and, called lacuna magna, "thegreat lacuna." In any of the larger pits the point of a fine instru- ment may catch, with results diagnostically misleading and t h e r a p e u t i c a 11 y injurious. Doubtless, also, the ol)stinacy of gonorrhreal inflammation is often due to the concealment of the specific virus in some of these recesses, beyond tlie reach of to])ical remedies. It will be seen that there are many open- ings n])on the surface of the membrane—those of mucous follicles, racemose glands, pros- tatic glands, ejaculatory ducts, the uterus masculinus, and the lacunse ; to which array must be added the mouths of the ducts of Cowper's glands, in the proximal part of the spongy urethra, the glands them- selves being situated one on each side between the tM'o layers of the triangular ligament, close to the memljranous ]iortion of the tube. Tlie mucous membrane is surrounded by an areolar coat of great elasticity, in the meshes of which are large numbers of convoluted vessels, mostly venous, a tissue similar to the true erectile tissues being thus constituted. Outside of this is a coat of undriped vni.^cle in two layers, the inner being longitudinal in the dis- position of its fasciculi, the outer circular. The whole is enclosed in a fibrous tunic of variable thickness. In the upper part of tlie prostatic portion the circu- lar muscular layer is thick, and is sometimes spoken of as the sphincter of the bladder ; but it should be called the internal sphincter of tlie urethra. This should not be confounded with the structure of striped muscle which surrounds the membranous portion above the triangular ligament, and is the external fipthiitcter of the urethra. The compressor uretlu'te embraces the membranous portion in the space between the two layers of this ligament. PROBE IN /LACUNA MAGNA -SKIN =ilDE OF URETHRA •LARGE LACUNA -SPONGY BODY—cut surfacB MEDIAN LACUNAE CORPUS SPONGIOSUM Fig. 863.—The distal portion of the male urethra, laid open on its posterior (under) surface, showing the lacuna?. (Testut.)793 THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. By F. pi. GERRISH. THERE are several organs whose general, gross appearance is very similar to that of secreting glands, l)nt which are conspicuously unlike the latter in the respect that they do not possess any duct by which their secretion is dis- charged. From this fact they have long l)een called diirfless r/lands. This name involves a seeming paradox, for the ^vord "gland" implies the capacity to form a product known as a secretion, and not only had nobody seen a secretion from one of these organs, but the absence of a cliannel of exit strengthened the idea that there was no such material to be discharged. With this view of the case authors endeavored to devise a name for this class of liodies, which should be more in accordance with the supposed facts. No such name, however, obtained general adoption, and the old title continued to he commonly employed, though with a mental protest by those who disliked inaccurate nomenclature. In recent years investigations along physiological and ])athological lines have shown that some of these organs have a profound influence upon nutritive changes in the body, and have established the fact of " internal secretion." In otlier words some of these bodies have been found to form substances out of materials brought to them in the circulation, and to discharge these products of their activity into the blood ; and it is rendered highly probalile that the others of the grou]) have a similar office. Since the fact of internal secretion is so well estab- lished, it is xninecessary longer to seek for another name for tiiis class of organs, which, though ductless, are really glands. These glands are the spleen, the thyroid body, the thymus, the suprarenal capsules, the hyjDophysis, the parathyroids, and the carotid and coccygeal glands. Some writers include the tonsils and the epiphysis in the enumeration ; but the former are more properly counted among the lymphatic structures, and the latter probably has no appreciable use, being an aborted attempt at the formation of a third eye. It is not inappropriate to remark in this connection that the possession of a secretion and an excretory duct for it does not necessarily prevent an organ's having an additional function of like nature with that of the ductless glands. For example, the liver has other duties besides that of secreting the bile; and the testicles, while forming the essential elements of the semen, exert a profound impression upon the ])hysical and mental attributes of the individual, as best shown in the arrest of development in various directions in those persons who have been castrated before reaching the age of puberty. THE SPLEEN. The spleen (lien) (Fig. 864) is the largest of the ductless glands. It is situ- ated in the dorsal part of the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions, behindTHE DUCTLESS GLANDS. 794 the stomach, covering the distance from the eighth to the eleventh ribs, and lying with its long axis in line with that of the tenth rib. Its mca-vormoifs are nsually not less than five inches for length, three for breadth, and one inch lor thickness, and they may be considerably more than the above without departure from the normal, so great are the variations of its size within physiologic limits. Its u-ciglif also differs, conformably with its size, but will generally be five ounces or more. It is purple in color, of a soft rovsisfency, rather friable, and sags out of shape by its own weight. Surfaces and Borders.—It presents three distinct surfaces, separated by three bor- ders. The phrenic snrface, so called from its relation to the diaphragm, is convex, is as large as both of the others, and faces backward and to the left. The opposite (mesial) area is divided by a lengthwise ridge into a larger, anterior, concave gas- tric surface, in contact Avith the stomach, and a smaller, posterior, concave rcna/ surface, which receives the left kidney. The lower end is blunt, and is sometimes designated as the basal surface. The anterior bojxJer is between the phrenic and gastric surfaces, is sharp and notched; the posterior border separates the phrenic and renal surfaces, and is rounded ; the internal border is the ridge between the gastric and renal surfaces. Upon the gastric surface, close to the internal border is a notch, the hihm, marking the passage of the splenic vessels and nerves. Fig. 86i.—The spleen, showing the gastric and renal surfaces and the blood-vessels. (Testut.) Structure of the Spleen. The spleen has a complete serous coat (Fig. 865), which is reflected from it at the hilum, a layer passing to the stomach, as the front lamina of the gastro- splenie omentum, the hind lamina being contributed by the small sac of the peritoneum, and another layer passing to the kidney, as the hind lamina of the lieno-renal ligament, Avhose front lamina is furnished l)v the small sac of the peritoneum. From the upper end of the spleen a serous fold, the phreno-splenic ligament, connects it with the diajihragm. Beneath the serous coat is the fnnica propria, composed of iiiiuLilcd white and yellow fibrous tissues, the latter material being very abundant, and giving the organ great elasticity. Many cords and bands {trabecnke) project into the organ from the inner surface of this tunic, and some plain muscle-cells are mixed with the fibrous elements. At the hilum the tunica propria is reflected inward upon the vessels, and forms sheaths around them. At some distance from the surface, the arteries having become smaller by branching, the character of the sheath is changed from fibrous material to lymphoid, and at frequent intervals it is thickened so as to ]iresent globular or ovoid masses, the 3Ialpighian corpuscles, sometimes -^-i^ inch in diameter. By the entrance of the trabeculse in one direction and the ensheathed vessels in another, the contained room of the spleen is divided into numberless, minute, irregular, intercommunicating spaces ; and these last are subdivided by delicate fibrous strands, connecting trabeculje and vessel-sheaths, the sui'faces of these little cords being covered by branched fibrous-tissue cells. The resulting areolse795 THE SPLEEN. are occupied by the spleen-pulp, which is substantially blooil, thickened Ijy tlu' addition of great numbers of leucocytes, among which are certain large cor- puscles, called splenic cells. The arrangement of the blood-vessels is extraordinary, and altogether jjeculiar to this organ. The splenic artery, whicli, judged by the standard of the arteries of other organs, is relativ-ely very large, runs in the lieno-renal ligament, and divides into five or six l)ranches before entering the organ. Rapidly breaking up into smaller vessels, when the minute arteriole stage is reached, which is generally succeeded by the stage of capillaries, the vessels abruptly terminate, and the blood is poured into the wall-less spaces of the spleen-]>ulp, from whicli it is collected by venules. The Malpighian corpuscles are factories for leucocytes, and the arterial blood courses among the latter, its flow being impeded by their great number and l)y the filamentous framework of the pulp-spaces. The blood in the splenic vein is remarkably rich in leucocytes. It is thought that one fimc- tion of the spleen is the disintegration of worn-out colored (iorpuscles of the blood, as the pulp contains many fragments of these cells. The li/inpliatics run in the tunica projiria, the trabecuhe, and the walls and sheaths of the vessels. They discharge into the splenic nodes, from which the lymph passes to the coeliac nodes. The nerves are derived from the solar plexus. The structure of the spleen is in some respects very similar to that of the lymph-nodes. The adenoid reticular tissue, the accumulations of lymph-cells, the great i-elative size in children, the atrophy which occurs in old age—all suggest an immense community of lymph-nodes, especially modified l)y a peculiar blood-supply. Not very infrequently accessori/ spleens (lienculi) are found. They are globular and small, but otherwise look like the principal spleen, near which they are situated.796 THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. THE THYROID BODY. The tliyrnid body ((/laiKlukt tlnjroidai) (Fig. 806) lias, independentlv of its fuiu'tinn of internal secretion, a claim to the name of gland, because it began its RIGHT LOBE OF. THYROID BODY Fig. 866.—The thyroid body and the rehited blood-vessels. (Testut.) career a? a secreting organ with a dnet. In the description of the tongue mention was made of the foramen cfecum, just at the rear of the hindmost circumvallate papilla. This blind hole is a remnant of the thyro-glossal duct, the channel through which the thyroid (in the early finetal condition a compound tubular gland) communicated with the pharynx. In the ^irocess of development the duct became shrunken, and finally was nearly obliterated. The acini of the gland, h.aving thenceforth no excretory duct, become dilated with their secretion, which is introduced into the system doubtless through the Ivmphatics, perhaps also by the veins. The thyroid gland is commonly described in connection with the organs of respiration ; but this association is not justified by likeness of structure or simi- larity of function, and rests merely upon the circumstance of contiguity. The thyroid consists of two lateral lobci^, usually connected at their lower parts by an i.^thrnvs. The gland extends vertically from the fifth or sixth tracheal ring to the side of the thyroid cartilage, and backward to the side of the ])liarvnx and gullet. When present, the isthmus generally lies across the second, third, and fourth rings. The lobes are broadest below and taper to a point above. They are superficially convex, and adapted to the form of the structures against wliich they lie. Each is about two inches long, one and a fourth inch wide at its broad- est part, and three-fourths of an inch thick ; but these figures are subject to great variations in different cases. During menstruation the thyroid of the female is somewhat increased in size. In infancy it is relatively larger than in the adult. The lobes are attached by fibrous tissue to the larynx and trachea, wherever in contact with these organs ; and distinct lateral liffaments bind them to the cricoid and uppermost part of the windpipe.797 THE THYMUS. Frequently a slender, tapering process, called the pyramid (pyramidal process, middle lobe), runs upward to the hyoid between the lateral lobes, from one of I which (usually the left) or from the isthmus it arises. This is a part of the I remains of the thyro-glossal duct, mentioned above. The gland is commonly of a dark red color, and its iveight is an ounce or more. The thyroid body has a strong tunic of fibrous tissue, from the inner surface I of which traheculce are given off, incompletely dividing the parenchyma in^o irregular lobules. These lobules are composed of closed vesicles, which are the original, tubular acini of the gland, matured and altered by reason of the closure of their excretory ducts. The vesicles are of many shapes and various sizes, the largest not exceeding one twenty-fifth inch in diameter. They are lined with a single layer of short, columnar epithelial cells, and filled with a colloid fluid. They are held together by areolar tissue, in which course the vessels and nerves. The arteries of the gland are the superior thyroids, inferior thyroids, and occasionally the thyroidea ima. These vessels are of large size relatively to the volume of the gland, and make abundant anastomoses. The capillaries form a close plexus around the vesicles, and even penetrate between their epithelial cells. The veins are arranged in an intricate network on the surface of the gland, from I which the blood is collected by the superior, middle, and inferior thyroid veins. [ The Ijpnphatics begin in spaces about the vesicles, fjrm a plexus in the capsule of the gland, and empty into the deej) cervical nodes. Colloid matter, like that in the cavity of the vesicles, is found in the lymphatics. The nerve-supply is rather scanty, and is derived from the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. Accessory thyroid glands of small size are occasionally found in this region. THE THYMUS. The thymus (Fig. 867) is a temporary organ, growing somewhat rapidly until it attains a considerable size, and then gradually dwindling until it is merely vestigial. It is situated in the anterior mediastinum and lower part of the neck, between Fig. 867.—The thymus, the sturniuu and costal rartihi;,'(_-> liaving been removed, (Testut,) the lungs, in front of the heart, the great vessels, and trachea, and reaching upward nearly to the thyroid. It appears at the end of the second month ofTHE DUCTLESS GLANDS. 798 intrautei'ine life. At birth it measures two inches vertically, and half an inch ventro-dorsally and laterally ; and it weighs a drachm and a quarter. It is largest when the child is two or three years old, and its ireighi at that time is six drachms. Thereafter it slowly and steadily atrojJdcft, and has nearly disappeared l>y the fifteenth year, although traces of it may be discovered in old age. It has a rosy hue in tlie fretus, is grayish-jiink in the infant, and later becomes yellowish. It is soft and compressible, and sags out of sliape bv its own weight. It is vertically elongated, and is largest l)elow. It has tiro lobes, approximately symmetrical—the rigJif lateral and the left lateral—perfectly independent of one another. Each lobe has a delicate fibrous enveloj'), from whose visceral surface partitions extend inward, dividing the lobe into a large number of irregular, jiolyhedral lobules. If the envelop is cut between the lobules, the whole lobe can be unfolded, and the lobules are then found to be arranged around a central cord, close to which they are continuous with each other, but at the periphery of the lol^e are free. A lobule consists of clusters of little nodules, which are essentially lymphatic in character. Each nodule has a cortical and a medullary portion, the lymph- cells l>eing more numerous in the former, and the latter containing peculiar cells (of Hassall) in nests, the large containing smaller. These medullary corpuscles are the representatives of the epithelium of which the thymus originally was largely composed, before the invasion of lymphatic tissue. A capillary network surrounds the nodule. As the gland shrinks away the interstitial, connective tissue increases, and multitudes of fat-cells are formed, the last fact accounting for the yellow tinge of the organ during this stage. The arteries of the thymus are derived from the internal mammary, the thyroids, the subclavian, and the carotid. The veins run to the left brachio- cephalic. The lipnphctties empty into the superior mediastinal nodes. The nerves come from the pneumogastric and the sympathetic. THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. Suprarenal bodies, adrenals, glaudukr suprareunles—these are the most com- mon of the names given to the two organs, each of which surmounts a kidney, presenting an appearance suggestive of a liberty-cap, rakishly worn (Fig. 868). They are usuallv classed among the ductless gUinds, as is done here; but by some thev are grouped with the organs of the central nervous system, on account of the prominence of their nerve-tissue, both fibrous and cellular. It is fairly well determined that they are essential to life, inasmuch as their complete removal is speedily followed by death, as also is their entire degeneration in disease. Their precise function is still unknown. The suprarenal capsules are situated in the epigastric region, resting u]ion the top, and the inner and front surfaces of the kidneys, to which organs they are attached by areolar tissue. They are sejiarated by the vertebral column, the distance between them being about two and a half inches. Their size is variable ; but the length rarely exceeds two inches, the width one inch and a fourth, and the thickness one-fourth inch. Each weighs about a drachm. The left is a little larger than the right. At birth they have nearly attained their adult size. On the anterior surface is a groove, running nearly crosswise, called the hiJum. The right suprarenal body is pyramidal. Its anterior surface is nearly covered by peritoneum. It is adherent to the liver in an impression on the under sur- face of that gland, at the right of the vena cava. The left suprarenal body is not as tall as the right, but extends farther down- ward on the vertebral border of the kidney. It is in contact with the spleen, stomach, and pancreas. The upper part of its anterior surface is clothed with peritoneum of the small sac.THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. 7*J9 Structure.—Section of a suprarenal body (l^^ig. 86*J) shows it to bo composed of a peripheral portion, the cortex, and a central portion, the mechdia—the two being separated by loose, areolar tissue, and the wliole mass enclosed in a thin, fibrous capsule, which sends inward numerous vertical trabecukc, between which arc many connecting bands. Mingled with the fibrous tissue is smooth muscular tissue. Thus are formed spaces in which are lodged the active cells of the organ. In the cortex, which is of a deep yellow color, the <-ells, <rranular, nucleated, polyhedral, are for the most part arranged in columns, pcr])endicular to the sur- face. The medulla is pulpy and dark brown, its color being principally caused by the great abundance of the blood-vessels of the part. The vessels are veins, arranged in a plexus in the fibro-muscular framework, and closely related to groups of large, irregular cells. The arteries, derived from the renal, and the phrenic, as well as directly from the aorta, enter at various points of the surface, and run inward in the trabeculie, Fig. 8CS.—Riglit Miprarenal capsule and kidney, Pig. 869.—Sagittal section of the right viewed from in front. (Testut.) suprarenal capsule. (Testut.) giving off" capillaries to the columns and other clusters of cells. The reins are nearly all gathered into the medulla, and their efiferents are the radicles of a single vessel, which emerges at the hilum, and passes on the right side to the adjacent vena cava, on the left to the corresponding renal. The l;/mphatics begin in lymph-paths lietween the groups of cells and the framework, and run to the median lumbar nodes. The iierres are derived from the solar and renal jilexuses. They are very numerous, and present many ganglia before entering the organ, and ganglion- cells in the medulla. The suprarenal capsules, like the kidneys upon which they rest, are surrounded by a quantity of adipose tissue. Quite often small accessory bodies of identical structure are found in the immediate neighborhood. The Parathyroids. Embedded in the surface of each lateral lobe of the thyroid body are two little masses, each about one-quarter of an inch in diameter, one on the inner andTHE DUCTLESS GLANDS. 800 one on the outer aspect. Tliey are called the \mYAi\\yro'\([ii {glandiiJce parathy- roidc(p). They ai'e not like the thyroid in structure, being solid accumulations of epithelioid cells, among which run many blood-vessels. Various theories concerning their function have been advanced, but we are still ignorant of tlieir service. The Carotid Glands. The two glanduke carot'uxe are tluis named because each is situated in the l)ifurcation of a common carotid artery. They are composed of nodules, each of which is a mass of epithelioid cells, among which are large capillaries. A fibrous capsule covers the gland and sends trabeculse between the nodules. The Coccygeal Gland. The glandula <-occi/f/ca is situated in front of the tij) of the coccyx. It is about one-tenth of an inch in diameter, and is very similar in structure to the carotid glands. The hypophysis has already been described.51 801 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. By G. D. STEWAUT. THE MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. THE reproductive organs of the male may be divided into essential and acces- sory. The former are the testicles, two glandular organs, which ])roduce the spermatozoa. The accessory organs ai'e (1) a long canal from each testicde, by means of which the spermatozoa are conveyed into the vagina of the female. This canal is divided into the vas deferens, the ejaculatory dud, and the urethra—the last being single and also belonging to the urinary system. (2) The seminal vesicles, reservoirs of the semen ; (3) the prostcde c/land, which adds an element to the semen as it passes outward ; (4) the bnlbo-urctliral glands (CV)\vper's), which also contribute to the volume of the semen ; (5) the scrotum, a pouch, consisting of a series of concentric layers, which envelop the testicles ; and (6) the penis, the organ of copulation, which encloses the extrapelvic portion of the urethra, and which, when erect, effects the discharge of the semen into the vagina. THE TESTICLES. The testicles ("little witnesses" to masculinity), or testes (Figs. 870, 871), are two glandular organs which produce the spermatozoa, the principal element of the seminal fluid. Tliey are suspended from the inguinal region by the s]>er- matic cords, and are surrounded and further supported by the scrotum. The left, as a rule, is a little lower than the rigiit, and its spermatic cord is thus a little the longer. Each gland is from one and a half to two inches in length, one and one-quarter inch in width from before backward, a little less than an inch in thickness (measured transversely), and weighs from five to eight drachms. Tlie consistence of the testicle is jieculiar, varying somewhat according to the condi- tion of its seminiferous canals. When the latter are engorged it is firm ; when they are em])ty, it is soft. Each gland is divided into two parts—the testicle proper and the epididymis. The latter must be regarded as the first segment of a canal through which the spermatozoa, after leaving the testicle, must pass to reach the urethra ; but it is so intimately connected with the testicle that it may be described with that structure. The testicle proper is ovoid, flattened transversely, and presents two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. The external surface is convex and turned outward and a little backward ; the internal, almost flat, looks in the opposite direction. The anterior border is convex and turned slightly downward ; tlie posterior, almost straight, is directed upward and backward and has attached along its whole length the epididymis. The superior extremity is rounded, and occupies a plane a little external and anterior to the more jiointed inferior ex- tremity. The latter gives origin to a fibro-muscular baud, the scrotal lif/amenf, which is attached by its distal end to the bottom of the scrotum, thus fixing the testicle to its enyelops.802 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The Epididymis (" upon the testicle") is a hmg narrow body, wliieh lies along the posterior border of the testicle, encroaching; somewhat on its outer surface. It is coniiK)sed chiefly of the convolutions of a long canal (to be described later), and is divided into an upper extremity or head, a lower extreniitv or tail, and an intervening jjortion called the l)ody. The hmd or (/lobus major (" greater globe "), the largest part of the epididymis, is round and smooth. It reposes like a hood on the upper extremity of the testicle, to which it is united by the tunica vaginalis, by an intervening layer of connective tissue, and by the vasa eiferentia, Avhich, on emerging from the testicle, immediately enter the globus major and make up the greater part of its bulk. The body in horizontal section resembles a comma, and presents in consequence two surfaces and two borders. The anterior surface is concave, the posterior convex. Between the former and the testicle there is a short ciil-dc-mc, the dif/ifal fosm, Avhich opens outward, and is lined by the tunica vaginalis. The internal border, corresponding to the tail of the comma, is thin, and floats in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis ; the external is thick, and lies immediately to the outer side of the vessels and nerves, as they enter the testicle. The tail or globus minor ("smaller globe"), intermediate in size between the body and head, is connected to the lower extremity of the testicle by a reflexion of the tunica vaginalis and by loose connective tissue. Migration of the Testicle.—In early fcetal life the testicle is an abdominal organ lying below the kidney and be- hind the peritoneum. To its lower extremity there is attached a muscular band, called the f/ubernaculum. fesfix ("rudder of the testis"), consisting of a central bundle of unstriped mus- cular fibers, which ]«isses through the inguinal canal and is attached to the dartos at the bottom of the scrotum, and of lateral bundles of voluntary muscular tissue, which are derived from the oblique muscles of the abdomen and are, tlierefore, attaclied below to the internal ring and the sides of the inguinal canal. Later the peritoneum sur- rounds the testicle and gubcrnaculum, forming a mesentery, the testicular portion of which is called tlie mcsorchium (" mesentery of the testicle"). Soon there appears on the gubcrnaculum, at the internal ring, a ])ouch of ])eri- toneum, the j(j;'0C(?.s-.s-H.« vaginalis {" sheathlike process "), which elongates gradually and pushes through the inguinal canal into the scrotum, carrying in front of it the sul)peritoneal tissue, an infundibuliform process of the fascia transversalis, a few fibres of the internal oblique (which form the cremaster muscle), and the intercolnmnar fiiscia. Tliis pouch is then occupied by the testicle, which leaves its abdominal position aliout the third month of fcetal life, reaches the internal ring about the sixth month, the external by the eighth, and shortly before birth descends into the scrotum. The cause of this descent is uncertain. That it may be due in small part to the progressive shortening of the gubcrnaculum is undeniable; that it is in greater measure owing to the fact that the lumbar region grows away from theTHE TESTICLES. 803 testicle, which is fixed by the giihernaciiluni, is prol)al)le. It must be noted too that the peritoneal pouch precedes tlie testicle, and, since the former is attached to a lower point in the gul>ernaculum, this fact may be explained in the same way. After descent has been completed, the remains of the central gubernacular VAS DEFERENS Fig. 871.~RiKht testic'lc, its iniLTiial surface. (Tostiit.) band may be found in the scrotal ligament already described ; the lateral bands, having ceased to act after tlie testicle has reached the external ring, are drawn down, and may be found in the form of scattered bundles (the internal cremaster of Henle), lying amidst the other elements of the s])ermatic cord. The peritoneal sac which preceded the testicle is at first continuous with the general peritoneal cavity. Shortly before birth, however, the upper part of the tube of communication becomes closed, and this obliteration extends gradually downward to within a short distance of the testicle. That ])ortion of the sac which surrounds the testicle is thereby completely cut oiF from the peritoneal cavity, and forms the tunica vaginalis. The obliterated portion of the pouch usually remains as a fibro-cellular thread, lying among the other elements of the cord. Sometimes this maybe traced as a distinct band from the peritoneum at the internal ring above to the tunica vaginalis below ; sometimes it is lost on the cord. Occasionally the tube of communication remains open, and then the abdominal viscera may pass into the tunica vaginalis, Hn'ming the congenital variety of hernia. In other eases the tu])e contracts, and forms a very minute canal, which may be traced downward a greater or less distance on the cord. A similar minute tube of peritoneum, observed in connection with the round ligament in the female, is called the cnnal of Niick. One or both testicles may fail to reach the scrotum until shortly after birth, or their descent may be delayed until puljcrty ; they may even remain permanently within the abdomen, or be arrested at any part of their course. The Tunica Vaginalis (" sheathlike coat") is a closed serous sac, of peritoneal origin, which invests the testicles and lines the scrotum, and may, therefore, be divided into visceral and parietal portions.THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 804 The visceral layer is intimately adherent to the tnnica albuginea of the testicle proper, exce])t along the ])osterior border of the gland, where the epididymis is attached, and where the vessels and nerves enter or emerge. It also invests the glol)us major, lines the digital fossa, and covers the external border and posterior surface of the body of the epididymis, but leaves uncovered almost the whole of the globus minor. The parietal layer, of greater extent than the visceral, lines the infundib- uliform fascia, to which it is loosely attached by a prolongation of the sub- peritoneal tissue. It also covers the spermatic cord for a short distance above the testicle, extending somewhat higher on the inner than on the outer side. At the posterior border of the gland the two layers are, of course, continuous. The inner surface of the tunica vaginalis is lined by a layer of epithelial cells, and the membrane secretes enough fluid to moisten the apposed surfaces. Minute Structure of the Testicle.—Structurally the testicle consists of the fol- lowing parts : (1) a iibrous covering, the tunica albuginea, from which is derived a framework ; (2) the tubuli seminiferi ; (3) certain excretory canals; (4) inter- .stitial tissue. The Tunica Albuginea ("whitish coat") is a dense, white, fibrous, inelastic capsule, about one-sixteenth of an inch in thickness. Its inner surface reposes on the parenchyma of the testicle ; its outer is covered by the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis. Behind, where the tunica albuginea covers the posterior border of the testicle, it becomes immensely thickened forming a cone-sha]>ed body, the corpns Highmorianum or mediastinum testis (" standing in the middle of the testis "), which projects forward a varying distance into the mass of the gland. This body approaches a little nearer to the upper than to the lower extremity of the testicle, lies closer to the internal than to the external surface of that organ, and is tunnelled by the larger l)lood-vessels and a network of ducts, the rete (" net") testis. By its summit and lateral faces the mediastinum gives origin to a system of thin lamiute and slender trabeculse, which radiate to become attached to the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, thus divid- ino- tlie testicle into a varying number (150 to 300) of small pyramidal s]iaces, called locidi ("little places"). In these cavities are lodged the seminiferous canals and the interstitial tissue. The visceral surface of the tunica albuginea and its trabecuhe is covered by a network of minute blood-vessels, connected with the spermatic blood-vessels, and called the tunica rascidosa. Histologically the tunica albuginea is composed of bundles of white fiiirous tissue, which interlace in everv direction, mingled with a small iHunl>er of fine elastic fil)rcs. The Tubuli Seminiferi ("seed-bearing tubules"), or seminiferous canals, produce the spermatozoa (Fig. 872), and hence form the essential structure of the testicle. They occupy the loculi, and are by the lat- ter divided into a corresponding number (150 to 300) of more or less distinct masses, called lobidex. These, like their containing loculi, are pyramidal, their bases corresponding to the inner surface of the an)Uginea, their apices resting on the mediastinum. They each contain tM'O or more seminiferous tubes, making of the latter from five to nine hundred for each testicle. The tubes vary in diameter from yi„ to yIo ^" inch, and are so flexuous that, when uncoiled, their length is increased twenty to thirty times (over two feet). They begin near the bases of the lobules by blind extremities. In their course toward the mediastinum thev give ofi' two or three csecal diverticula, and TAIL PROPER AXIAL FILAMENT TER MIN AL SEGM E NT Fiii. 872.—Human spermatozoa. The right one is seen iu profile. (Testut.)THE TESTICLES. 805 exhibit frequent anastomoses, particularly near their origin, not only with the tubes of the lobule to which they belong, but with those of adjoining lobules. Near the mediastinum the canals "of each lobule unite to form a single straight excretory tube, one of the tubuli recti. The "wall of a seminiferous tubule, on cross section, is seen to consist of several concentric layers of epithelial cells. The cells of the innermost layer are united edge to edge to form a basement membrane ; the outer layers are incomplete. wTthin the'^tubule are several layers of small epithelial nucleated cells, the pro- genitors of the spermatozoa. (See page 77.) The excretory canals (Fig. 873) of the testicle do not produce spermatozoa, but simply serve to convey the latter from the tubuli seminiferi to the canal of the epididymis. They are"^ the tubuli recti, the rete testis, and the vasa eiferentia. The tubuii recti, formed in the manner already indicated at the apices of the lobules, are short, straight, and of smaller calibre than the seminiferous canals from which they spring. They penetrate the mediastinum, and in its anterior EFFERENT CONES I Fig. 873.—Diagram of testicle proper and epididymis. (Testut.) portion break up into the rete testis. The walls of the straight tubules are made up of the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum, lined by a single layer of prismatic cells. The rete testis occupies the whole length of the mediastinum, and is com- posed of ana.stomosing vessels of irregular calibre, which vary in diameter, but are always larger than the seminiferous canals or the straight tubules. Like the lat- ter they have no proper wall but are simply channels dug out of the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum, and lined by an epithelium which is here cylindrical, there cubical, or even of the flattened variety. At the upper and back part of the tes- ticle these channels finally unite to form a smaller number of canals, the vasa effer- entia ("vessels carrying from"). The latter almost immediately escape from the albuginea, and enter the globus major, with which structure they will be described. The interstitial tissue is a very delicate connective tissue, which supports the seminal tubules and the smaller ramifications of the blood-vessels. It is derived from the trabecular, and is peculiar in that it contains, besides the ordinary cells of connective tissue, the so-called interstitial cells. These are large, rounded or oval corpuscles, some of which exhibit branching processes. Their protoplasm is granular, often filled with fat, and may contain a brown or yellowish pigment. They occupy divers situations, surrounding the smaller vessels and lying between the tubules, and are either a special yariety of connective-tissue cells, or are derived from cells of the germinal epithelium, which have not been utilized in forming the tubes. In the spaces of this tissue the lymphatics of the testicles take birth. Minute Structure of the Epididymis.—The vasa efferentia, ten to fifteen in number, carry the spermatozoa from the rete testis to the canal of the epididymis. Emerging from the testicle at its ujjper and back part, they are at first straight,806 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. but soon become coiled and convoluted, forming a series of cone-shaped masses, the eoni vascidoai. These cones, their apices turned toward the tunica albuginea, are each about one-third of an inch in length ; together thev^ constitute the globus major. The tube of Avhich each i^ composed is about one-thirtieth of an inch in diameter near its origin, about half as large at its termination, and measures when uncoiled from six to eight inches in length. The uppermost vessel merges without line of demarcation into the canal of the epididvmis, the remainder open at regular intervals into that canal. The walls of the efferent vessels are made of smooth muscular fibres, circularly arranged, and lined by a ciliated, cylindrical epithelium. The canal of the epididymis takes origin in the globus major in the manner ah-eady described. Extending downward, it forms the body and globus minor, and then merges into the vas deferens. It is disposed in numerous coils, held together by areolar tissue. The length of the canal when uncoiled varies from twelve to twenty feet, and its diameter, about one-sixtieth of an inch above, gradually decreases as it approaches the globus minor, to enlarge again beyond that point. The walls are thin, and are composed of smooth muscular tissue, which near the vas may be separated into a superficial longitudinal layer and a circular one. This muscular coat is lined by a layer of ciliated, columnar epithelium. The cilia of the canal are longer than those found in the efferent vessels, but like the latter their motion is toward the vas. Beneath the fixed ends of the columnar cells is found a layer of young cells, destined later to replace the former. Vessels and Nerves.—The arterial supply of the testicle is derived chiefly from the spermatic artery, which joins the other structures of the spermatic cord at the internal ring. Approaching the gland it divides into two sets of branches —testicular and epididymal. The former, at the posterior superior portion of the testicle, subdivides into two sets of branches, as follows : (1) a peripheral group Av'hich travels forward in the thickness of the albuginea ; (2) a central group, which ])ierces the mediastinum, and breaks up into a plexus on the walls of the loculi. From this a multitude of fine branches are sent to form plexuses around the walls of the seminiferous canals. The epididymal branches, joining with the terminal twigs of the deferential artery, form a plexus around the canal of the epididymis. The veins pierce the mediastinum, and unite into six or seven trunks, which foi'm a plexus, the 'pampiniform (" tendril-shaped "), surrounding the spermatic artery, and lying in front of the vas. Farther up in the cord the veins become reduced to two or three, and these, following the artery into the abdominal cavity, finally unite to form a single trunk, the spermatic vein, which empties on the right into the inferior vena cava, on the left into the corresponding renal vein. The veins from the epididymis form a second group of two or three trunks only, which pass upward in the cord behind the vas, and empty into the deep epigastric veins. The lympjhcdics form a plexus around the seminiferous canals, where they begin as minute spaces lined by epithelial cells. Together with the lymphatics of the epididymis, they accompany the spermatic vessels to end in the lumbar nodes. The nerves are derived from the aortic, renal, and hypogastric plexuses of the sympathetic. Branches from these form a secondary plexus around the s]icrmatic artery and the artery of the vas. Their mode of termination is not w(dl understood. Foetal Remains.—The liydcdids ("vesicles") of Morr/dgni are two small V)odies —one pedicnlated, the other sessile—which are found in connection with the globus major and the upjier extremity of the testicle. The pediculaied Jiydatid, rounded or pyriform in outline, and from one-eighth to one-third of an inch in length, .is attached to the head of the epididymis, and covered by the tunica vaginalis. Its cavity, lined by a cylindrical, ciliated epithelium, contains a trans- parent fluid. This body is not always present, and its morphological significance has not been satisfactorily explained. The sessile hydatid, a rounded or flattened807 THE VA^ DEFERENS. pr(.)jection of about the same size, is seated either on the front of the globus major, the upper extremity of the testicle, or between the two. It is nearly always present, is sometimes divided into several lobes, and contains in its centre a tui)ular cavity or canal, which either ends in blind extremities or becomes continuous with a seminiferous canal. Morphologically, this body represents the peritoneal end of the duct of Miiller, and is, thei'efore, homologous with the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube in the female. Sometimes, indeed, it may be found as an empty orifice with fringed borders. The organ of Giraldes or parddidymis ("beside the testicle"), a small, irregular, yellowish-white patch, which lies in front of the cord, immediately above tlie head of the epididymis and beneath the funicular portion of the tunica vaginalis, is made up of several small nodules, each containing a blind convoluted tube, lined with cylindrical, ciliated epithelium. It is a relic of the inferior portion of the Wolffian body. THE VAS DEFERENS. The vas deferens ("vessel carrying away") (Figs. 874, 875) is the prolonga- tion of the canal of the epididymis, and extends from the tail of the latter to the base of the prostate gland. It varies in length from six- teen to twenty inches, is cylin- drical in outline throughout the greater part of its course, and has an average diameter of about one-tentli of an inch. The vas travels upward in the spermatic cord, and may be divided into four portions as follows: (1) testicular; (2) funicular ; (3) inguinal; (4) abdomino-pelvic. Direction and Relations.— The testicular jjortion, mark- edly tortuous, runs from its origin upward and a little forward, to about the middle of the testicle. It lies to the inner side of the epididymis and l)ehind the testicle, and is separated from both by the spermatic vessels and nerves. The funicular portion is straight, and is continued vertically upward to the ex- ternal alxlominal ring, lying behind. (Xestut.) behind the spermatic artery, nerves, and anterior group of veins, but in front of the posterior veins. The inr/uiiial portion occupies the inguinal canal. The abdomino-pelvic divisio7i is, in the greater part of its course, retro-peritoneal. At the internal abdominal ring it leaves the sjjermatic vessels and turns inward, curving around the outer side of the deep epigastric artery. Crossing the external iliac vessels on their inner side, it then enters the pelvis close to the ilio-pubic suture, and curves downward and backward on the lateral wall of the bladder, crossing in this part of its course obliquely and to the vesical side of the obliterated hypogastric artery and the ureter. The terminal segment of this division, about two inches in length, runs forward between the bladder and the rectum. It is dilated, flattened fromTHE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 808 before backward, sacculated, resembles the seminal vesicle, and is called the ampulla of Henle. The anterior surface of the latter is directly applied to the bladder wall ; the posterior is separated from the rectum for a short distance above by the recto-vesical pouch of the peritoneum, below this, by the recto- vesical fascia. The external border of the ampulla lies in contact with the inner border of the corresponding seminal vesicle. The ampullfe of f)pposite sides are sej^arated by a triangular space, the interdeferential triangk, the apex of which corresponds to the base of the prostate, and in the opening of which the l)laddcr and rectum are in almost immediate contact, separated only by the recto-vesical fascia. Close to the base of the prostate the ampulla again becomes narrow and straight, and is joined on its outer side by the corresponding seminal vesicle, to form one of the coininftn or ejaculatory ducts. Minute Anatomy.—The walls of the vas consist of three coats—areolar, mus- cular, and mucous. The outer or areolar coat is composed of fibrous tissue, mixed with blood-vessels, nerves, and smooth muscular fibres, arranged parallel to the long axis of the canal. The muscidar coed constitutes aliout four-fifths of the entire thickness of the wall, and gives to the vas a firm, resistant feel, by means of which it may easily be distinguished from the other elements of the cord. It is composed of smooth muscular fibres, arranged in three planes. In the superficial and deep planes the fibres are longitudinal, in the median, which is much the thickest, they are circular. The mucous coat is whitish, presents three or four longitudinal folds, which are etfaced by distention, and is lined by cylindrical, non-ciliated epithelium. In the ampulla the walls are thinner, and the mucous membrane i^resents many folds, which, uniting at divers angles, give to this portion an areolar appearance, resembling the seminal vesicles. These areolre are lined by cubical epithelium. Vessels and Nerves.—The artery, a branch of the superior vesical, joins the vas near its origin, and accompanies it to the testicle, anastomosing in the latter wdth the spermatic artery. The veins empty into the vesico-prostatic plexus and the veins of the cord. The nerves come from the inferior hyjiogastric jilexus. The vas aberrans ("vessel wandering from ") is a narrow tube which comes from the lower end of the canal of the epididymis, or from the beginning of the vas. Becoming convoluted into an irregular mass, it extends upward be- tween the structures mentioned for an inch or more, and ends in a ctecal extremity. The tube when uncoiled measures from one and a half to fifteen inches in length. It agrees in structure with the vas, and is a relic of the upjjer part of the AVolffian body. THE SEMINAL VESICLES. The seminal vesicles (Figs. 874, 875) are two lobtdated pouches, serving as reservoirs for the semen, to which they add a secretion of their own. They are placed one on either side, external to the ampullas of the vasa deferentia, and between the bladder and the rectum. Each vesicle is pyramidal in form, with the broad end directed backward, meas- ures two inches in length, and about a half inch in breadth at its posterior and widest part, and presents two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. The anterior surface is attached to the base of the bladder, overlapping, for a short distance above, the ureter. The posterior surface is convex and covered Fig. 875.—Base of the Ijladder, showiiifi tlie semi- nal vesicles and the vasa deferentia. (Testut.)809 THE SCROTUM. above by the recto-vesical poueli ot" peritoiieum, l)olow this, by the recto-vesical fascia, which alone separates it from direct contact with the rectum. The poste- rior extremities or bases are widely separated ; the anterior converge, become narrowed, and near the base of the prostate unite on their inner sides with the corresponding vasa deferentia to form the ejaculatory ducts. Along the inner margin of eacli vesicle there runs the ani])ulla of the corresponding vas. Each vesicle consists of a central tube, four to six inches in length, from which are given off many blind diverticula, the whole being coiled into the form just described, and held thus by dense, tibrous tissue. In minute structure it closely resembles the vas. Like the latter it has an external fibrous coat derived from the recto-vesical fascia, and containing blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. Its middle or muscular coat is thin, but it is arrangeil in superficial and deep longitudinal layers and a middle plane of circular fibres. The mucous membrane, areolar in structure, like that of the ami)ulla, is lined with non-ciliated, cylin- drical epithelium, beneath which is a deeper layer of polyhedral cells. Over the posterior surfaces and extending between the two vesicles is found a certain amount of smooth muscular tissue, also some longitudinal fibres, con- tinuous with those of the bladder wall. THE EJACULATORY DUCTS. AMPULLA SEMINAL VESICLE The ejaculatory ducts (Fig. 876), two in number, one right, the other left, are formed close to the base of the prostate by the union, at a very acute angle, of the ampulla of the vas and the corre- sponding seminal vesicle. They convey the seminal fluid from the vesicles and vasa deferentia into the urethra. From tlieir origins the two ducts run downward and forward, converging as they descend. After a very short course they enter the prostate, and pass forward side by side between its middle and lateral lobes, opening finally into the prostatic urethra by two small ellip- tical orifices, placed one on either side of the sinus jiocularis. Each duct is about three-quarters of an inch in length, and its lumen, diminishing from behind forward, is so small at the urethral end as barely to admit a very fine bristle. The walh of this tube are very thin ; the outer, areolar coat, found in the vas deferens and vesicula seminalis, has entirely disappeared ; and the outer plane of longitudinal muscle-fibres becomes blended with tlie prostate. The muscular coat proper is therefore reduced to two layers, an outer of circular, an inner of longitudinal fibres. Tlie mucous membrane resembles closely that found in the vas deferens. Arterial branches from the inferior vesical and middle hemorrhoidal su]i])lv the seminal vesicles and the extra-prostatic portion of the ejaculatory duct. The veins correspond, emptying into the vesico-prostatic plexus; the nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. The intra-prostatic portion of the ejac- ulatory duct receives its nutrient and nervous supply from the prostate. URETHRA Fig. 876.—Ejaculatory duct in sagittal sec- tion. (Testut.) THE SCROTUM. The scrotum (Fig. 877) is a pouch, which contains the testicles and a part of each spermatic cord. It consists of several layers which are from without inward as follows: (1) the integument; (2) the dartos ; (3) the intercolumnar fascia; (4) the cremasteric fascia; (5) the infundibuliform fascia; (6) the sub-810 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. peritoneal tissue ; (7) the parietal tunica vaginalis. Tlie integument forms a common covering for both testicles; the remaining layers, meeting in the median line, form the septum scroti, which passes inward between the two glands, giving to each a sejiarate compartment. The Integument is thin, very distensible, deeply pigmented, covered with RIGHT HALF OF SCROTUM SKIN LEFT" HALF OF SCROTUM Fig. 877.—The scrotum. On the left side the cavity of the tunica vaginalis has been opened; on the right side only the layers superficial to the cremaster have been removed. (Testut.) short hairs, and studded with numerons sudoriparous and sebaceous glands. Along its median line there runs a longitudinal ridge or raphe, from which numerous folds are directed transversely outward. The Dartos ("flayed") is a thin, reddish, fibrillated layer, which lines and is intimately attached to the deep surface of the integument. It corre- sponds to the two layers of the superficial fascia, with which it is continuous over the abdomen and groin ; but it differs from these in that it consists of elastic tissue, with abundant, smooth, nui.^cidar fibres, and contains no fat. The muscidar fibres, mostly longitudinal in direction, are attached to the deep surface of the skin. Under the influence of cold, mental emotion, and in the healthy, they are contracted, causing the scrotum thereby to become short and corrugated ; in the feeble, and under the influence of warmth, they relax, and the scrotum becomes pendulous, and its ridges almost effaced. The dartos, as such, is con- tinued over the penis and perineum. The Intercolumnar Fascia {external spermatic) is a thin, fatless, transparent membrane, which lines the dartos. It is continuous above with the pillars of the external abdominal ring, and with the transverse fibres connecting them.THE SCROrUM. 811 The Cremasteric Fascia [middle i^pcniiutic) consists of two layers of thin areolar tissue, between which are placed the voluntary muscular bundles—cre- master ("supporting") muscle—derived from the internal oblique. At the bottom of the scrotum this layer blends with the dartos. Tiie Infundibuliform Fascia {internal spermatic) is a delicate membrane derived from the fascia transversalis. It lines the cremasteric fascia. The Subperitoneal Tissue does not, properly speaking-, form one of the layers of the scrotum. iVs a loose areolar structure continuous with the subperitoneal tissue of the abdominal wall, it lines the infuudibuliform fascia, investing and forming laminae between the different elements of the spermatic cord. Below, it connects loosely the inner surface of the infiuidibuliform fascia to the parietal layer of the tunica vaginalis. This with the preceding layer forms the so-called /W.sc/ff p/'opr/a. The tunica vaginalis has already been described. Vessels and Nerves.—The nrteri(d supply of the scrotum comes from the superficial and dee]i external pudic, and from the superficial perineal, a branch of the internal pudic. The cremasteric artery, a branch of the deep Fig. 878.—Spermatic veins. (Testut.) epigastric, is distributed chiefly to the cremaster muscle; but it also sends branches to the deeper layers of the scrotum and anastomoses with the arte- ries of the testicle. The veinH follow the corresponding arteries, and empty into the external saphenous and internal pudic. The lipnphatics terminate in the superficial inguinal nodes. Tiie nerves are from the ilio-inguinal, the two super- ficial perineal, the inferior pudendal, and the genital branch of the genito-crural. The latter is distributed chiefly to the cremaster muscle.THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 812 THE SPERMATIC CORD. The spermatic cord forms the pedicle of the testicle, and consists of the fol- lowing parts: (1) the vas deferens; (2) arteries ; (3) veins; (4) lymphatics ; (5) nerves; (6) the processus vaginalis ; (7) the internal cremaster of Heiile. These are cemented together by a loose areolar tissue, continuous with the subperitoneal fascia, and are surrounded by certain layers, continuous with those found in the scrotum. The vas deferens (page 807) forms the nucleus of the cord. The spermatic artery lies in front of, the deferential artery is placed behind, the vas. The veins from the testicle, six or seven in number, form the pampiniform plexus, which runs upward in frctnt of and surrounding the spermatic artery. The veins from, the epididymis form a group of two or three trunks only, which run upward behind the vas. The lymphatics accompany the veins. Tiie nerves I'un with the arteries. The processus vaginalis may run to the testicle or be lost at any level of the cord. The internal cremaster of Henle, in the form of scattered bundles, is supposed to represent the lateral bands of the gubernaculum. The coveriiif/s are, from without inward, the skin, dartos or superficial fascia, intercolumnar fascia, cremasteric fascia, and infundibuliform fascia. At the level of the external ring the four outer coverings are lost. From this point the cord traverses the inguinal canal, and at the internal ring its elements diverge, the cord as such ceasing to exist. THE PENIS. The penis (Figs. 879-886) is the male organ of copulation. It takes origin in the perineal region between the superficial perineal fascia and the inferior SPONGY URETHRA FifJ. 879.—The male urethra, in sagittal section. (Testut.) layer of the triangular ligament. Running upward and forward parallel with the ischid-pubic rami, it reaches a point above the scrotum and in front of the sym- physis, where it becomes free and surrounded by a cutaneous covering. It may be divided into an anterior expanded extremity or glans, a posterior perineal extremity or root, and an intervening portion, called the body. The first will be t813 THE PENIS. described with the corpus spongiosum from which it is derived ; the other divisions will be taken up separately after the minute anatomy of the organ has been considered. Structure.—The penis consists of three cylindrical musses of erectile tissue (two corjiora cavernosa and a corpus s])ongiosum), and a system of envelops, which surround and hold these together. The Corpora Cavernosa, each about six inches long and lialf an inch in diameter, make up the greater part of the body of the penis. They are placed side by side and nnited along the anterior three-fourths of their extent, their contiguous sur- faces being somewhat flattened. Behind they diverge, and, becoming gradually narrower, terminate in pointed extremities, which are inserted, one on either side, into the middle of the ischio-pubic rami. The divergent portions, called the crthixi penis (Fig. 880), are fixed to the descending rami of the pubos by connective tissue, and in- vested by the ischio-cavernosi (erectores penis) muscles, which surround them more or less completely. In its course each crus presents a slight enlargement called the bulb. The distal extremities of the cavernous bodies, conical in outline, are I'eceived into corre- sponding depressions in the base of the glans, where tiiey are firmly secured by fibrous tis- sue. Two longitudinal grooves, one dorsal, the other ventral, are formed by the union of these VEflUMON TANUM MEMBRANOUS PORTION Fig. sso.—The penis, proximal portion, seen from beluw. (Testut.) Fig. 881.—I he male uretlira, laid open on its anterior (upper) surface. (Testut.)' bodies. The former lodges the deep dorsal vein, the latter, much the deeper, is occupied by the corpus spongiosum. Structurally each corpus cavernosum consists of erectile tissue, invested by a sheath, the tunica albugiucd. The latter is composed of fibrons and elastic tissue, and is both tough and distensible. It is arranged in two layers, superficial and deep. The former, of longitudinal fibres, is common to both bodies ; the latter, of circular fibres, is proper to each. In the median line, where the two bodies touch, these circular fibres blend, making a septum, dense and complete behind, but in its anterior portion interrupted by numerous vertical slits, and hence called the septum pectimforine (" comb-shaped j)artition "). From the inner surface ofTHE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 814 the albuginea, numerous fibro-muscular lamellated or filamentous trabeeuloE, are derived. These become smaller near the central axis of the body, and are stronger behind, in the vicinity of the crura, than in front. Crossing each other in divers directions, the trabeculse divide the cylindrical cavity of the albuginea into an immense number of spaces, called areolcv. The latter communicate freely with each other, and with those of the opposite boily throngli the fissures in the sep- tum. They are lined by epithelial cells, resenil)ling tiiose found in the smallest arterial branches, and, therefore, represent widely dilated capillaries. At several points in their walls these spaces communicate with the arteries; they also give origin to the veins. The Corpus Spongiosum (Fig. 881) is traversed throughout its whole extent by the urethra. Its posterior extremity, somewhat dilated, is called the bulb, its anterior extremity, much dilated, makes up the glanf<, while the intervening por- tion is known as the body. The bulb (Fig. 880) is pear-shaped, about one and a half inches in length, and three-quarters of an inch in diameter at its widest part. It is larger than the body, and contains the bulbous portion of the urethra, which is here surrounded by a greater amount of erectile tissue than elsewhere. Its posterior extremity lies about half an inch in front of the anus. Tapering anteriorly, it soon gains the inferior groove, formed by the junction of the corpora cavernosa, and merges into the body. The superior surface of the bulb rests against the inferior layer of the triangular ligament from which it receives an investment; its inferior surface is covered l)y the bulbo-cavernosi (acceleratores urin^e) muscles. These muscles, tw^o in number, arise from a median ra]>he on the under surface of the bulb. Diverging they encircle the latter and meet on its dorsal surface. A few of their most anterior fibres are sometimes inserted into the sides of the cor- pora cavernosa, or into the fascial sheath of the ]ienis, in which case they com- press during erection the dorsal vein. Tlie urethra does not occujiy the central axis of the bulb, but lies nearer to its superior surface. The body is cylindrical (u- slightly tapering. It occupies the inferior groove formed by the junction of the cavernous bodies, and is tunnelled along its centre by the urethra. DISTAL PART OF SEP- TUM PECTINIFORME PREPUCE RETRACTED FOSSA NAVIC- ULAR I S FRENUM VALVE OF LA- CUNA MAGNA LEFT SIDE OF URETHRA —FLOOR OF URETHRA LACUNA MAGNA CORPUS CAVERNOSUM CORPUS SPONGIOSUM Fig. 882.—The penis, distal end, in sagittal section one-twelfth ineh at left of middle line. (Testut.) The glans (Figs. 882-884) forms the anterior extremity of the penis. It is conoidal in outline and presents at its summit a vertical fissure, the meatus urina- rius externum, the anterior opening of the urethra. Its base, directed backward,815 THE PENIS. MEDIAN GROOVE and hoUowed to receive the tips of the cavernous bodies, as already mentioned, is not 'at right angles to the long axis of the penis, bat so placed that it extends farther backward on the dorsal than on the ventral aspect of that organ. The prominent border of the base is called ihecorona c//awlis ; the constricted portion of the body behind this, the cervix. The external surface of the glaiis is smooth, and presents below a longitudinal groove, which begins a little behind the meatus, extends backward, and lodges the frcnum of the prepuce. Structure.—The corj)us spongiosum is composed of a thin layer of erectile tissue, which surrounds the urethra and is enclosed in a fibrous sheath. It there- fore resembles the cavernous bodies ; but the sheath is thinner and contains more elastic fibres, and the areolae are smaller. The erectile layer of the bulb is thickened and prolonged backward, so as to surround the membranous and pros- tatic portions of the urethra. The erectile structure of the glans is continuous with that of the spongy body, from which, however, it is derived only in small part, the greater portion being developed from the integumental tissues which invest the glans (Retterer). Its trabeculse are very coarse, its areolae small. During erection the corpus spongiosum never attains the same degree of rigidity as the cavcrnt)us bodies. The Envelops of the Penis, four in number, are concentrically arranged around the erectile cylinders. They are from without inward as follows : (1) the integu- ment; (2) the dartos ; {'■]) an areolar layer ; (4) the fascia of the penis. The cutaneous envelop (Figs. 882, 883, 886) is continuous with the integument of the pubic region and scrotum beliind, and in front assists in forming the prepuce. It is thin, deeply pigmented, and free from fat; contains abundant elastic meatus tissue ; and is remarkable for its dis- tensibility and the laxity of its attachment to the subjacent tissues. It is studded with sebaceous glands, and presents a median raphe on the under (hind) surface of the penis, continuous with that of the scrotum. The prepuce, or foreskin, is a tegumentary fold, disposed like a cuff around the glans. It is formed as follows: just behind the cervix the integument leaves the surface of the penis and is continued forward for a varying distance, forming the outer layer of the jirepuce ; then it turns backward within itself, form- ing the inner layer, and rejoins the surface at the level of the cervix. From this point the integument is reflected anew over the cervix and glans, to which it is intimately adherent, finally becoming continuous at the meatus with the mucous membrane of the urethra. Thus constituted, the prepuce presents two surfoces, outer and inner, and an anterior opening, the preputial, orifice. Below, it is drawn forward in a median fold, the frevuvi, which occupies the ventral groove on the glans, and is attached a little behind the urinary meatus. The integu- ment, which forms the inner surface of the prepuce and covers the cervix and glans, is so modified in character as to resemble mucous membrane. Over the cervix and corona it is studded with numerous sebaceous follicles, the rjlancluke odoriferce, the secretion of which, added to the desquamated epithelial cells of this vicinity, forms a whitish substance of ])eculiar odor, the smegma prceputii (" unguent of the foreskin "). The integument over the glans adheres closely to the erectile tissue beneath, possesses only rudimentary sebaceous follicles, and is beset with large nervous and vascular papillpe. The dartos layer is continuous with a similar structure in the scrotum, and is FOSSA OF FRENUM CORONA- PREPUCE RETRACTED Fl(3. 883.—Glans puiiis vuiilrr Mii lace. (Testut.)THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 816 formed chiefly of plain muscular fibres, the great majority of which are arranged longitudinally. It extends to the preputial orifice, then like the skin turning backward, it becomes more and more attenuated, and is finally lost on the cervix. When contracted, the dartos compresses the veins, and thus favors engorgement. The areolar sheath lying beneath the dartos, is prolonged forward as far as the preputial orifice. It is loose, rich in elastic fibres, but almost devoid of fat, and contains the superficial vessels and nerves. To this layer the skin owes its m()l)ility. The fascia of the penis reposes on the erectile bodies. Anteriorly it does not enter into the formation of the prepuce, but passes directly to the base of the glans, where it fuses with the integument. Behind, it is continuous with the superficial perineal fascia and the suspensory ligament. Structurally it is com- posed almost entirely of elastic tissue, and it therefore acts as a compressor of the deep veins. Conformation and Fixation.—The anterior extremity oi- glans penis has already been descnl)ed. The body, when flaccid, is soft, cylindrical in outline, and hangs vertically from the front of the symphysis, forming with the root an acute angle, the amjh of the pen is ; when erect, it becomes much larger, changes in direction, and is pi'ismatic in outline with rounded borders. The root is made up chiefly by the diverging crura. These are held in position by their insertion into the ischio-pubic rami, and by short fibrous bands, which unite them to the pubic arch, the symphysis, and the inferior layer of the triangular ligament. The suspensory ligament, a triangular band of elastic tissue, also aids in securing the root. Its apex is attached to the upper part of the symphysis and the neighbor- ing linea alba ; its posterior liorder blends with the front of the symphysis; its anterior border is free. Below, its fibres divide into two groups, median and lateral. The former are inserted into the fascial sheath to the right and left of the dorsal vein, the latter separate to surround the cavernous bodies. Vessels.—The arterial suppAy (Fig. 884) of the envelops is derived from the external pudic, and from the superficial perineal and dorsal artery of the penis, CAVERNOUS BRANCH Fig. 884.—Diagram of the arteries of the penis. (Testut.) branches of the internal pudic. Each cavernous body receives from the corre- sponding internal pudic a branch, which penetrates the alljuginea on its inner side just behind the point where the converging crura meet. This vessel sends a recurrent branch to the cms, and then passes forward in the central axis of the body, anastomosing frequently through the fissures in the septum Avith its fellow. Small twigs fi'om the dorsal artery of the penis also perforate the albuginea. The bulb and body of the corpus spongiosum are supplied by a branch (artery of the bidb) from each internal pudic. A smaller branch from the same source or from the transverse perineal also enters the dorsal surface of the bulb. The glans is supplied by the dorsal artery of the penis. In the erectile tissue the arteries are supported by the trabeculse, and are divided into two groups—817 THE PENIS. nutritive and fnncfional The former supplies the histological elements, breaking up into capillaries, which merge into veins in the ordinary way. The latter, according to Eckhard, forms bouquets of short terminal branches, which open into the areola? by means of small orifices. These orifices are sur- rounded by elastic tissue, which keep them closed when the penis is flaccid. Small convoluted twigs, called helicine arteries, are some- times seen projecting into the areola;. The vems (Fig. 885) from the envelops and the prepuce converge toward the dorsum of the organ, where they form a common canal, the superficial dorsal vein, which follows the median line, lying in the areolar layer beneath the dartos, and ends in the external pudic and obturator veins. The veins from the corpus s])ongiosum emerge along its whole length. Those from the glans pass backward to the excava- tion at its base, where they form the deep dorscd vein, which runs beneath the fascial sheath, in the superior groove formed by the cavernous bodies, and perforates the triangu- lar ligament to end in the prostatic plexus. Those from the body and bulb terminate in the same plexus or in the internal pudic veins. Small venous branches from the cavernous bodies emerge from both tlie superior and inferior surfaces ; the former pass directly into the deep dorsal vein, the latter terminate in the same vessel after first encircling these bodies. The pi-incipal eiferent trunk, however, comes from the posterior extremity of the cavernous body and perforates the triangular ligament to end in the prostatic plexus or the internal pudic veins. The h/mph(ifics from the prepuce and envelops form a single superficial dorsal trunk, which accompanies the vein of the same name, and, dividing at the root of the penis into right and left branches, terminates in the super- ficial inguinal nodes. The deep lymphatics take origin in the erec- tile structures. In the glans they communicate freely with the lym- phatics of the urethra. Behind the glans they fjrm a trunk, which fol- lows the dee]> dorsal vein, and ends in the internal iliac nodes. Nerves.—The coverings of the penis receive their nerve-supply from the genital branch of the genito- crural, and from the iiiferior perineal branch of the internal pudic. The erectile structures receive sympathetic branches from the hypogastric plexus, and spinal branches from the dorsal nerve of the penis and the superficial perineal. .'>2 SUPERFICIAL DORSAL VEIN EXTERNAL PUDIC VEIN OBTURATOR VEIN Fig. 885.—Vf ius of the penis. (Testut.) SUPERFICIAL DOR- SAL VEIN DORSAL ARTERY .DEEP DORSAL VEIN CORPUS CAVERNOSUM SKIN AREOLAR TISSUE BULBO-CAVERNOUS ARTERY/ — ANTERIOR BRANCH i URETHRA CORPUS SPONGIOSUM Fig. 886.—The penis in transverse section, showing the blood-vessels. {Testut.)THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 818 THE PROSTATE GLAND. The prostate ("standing in front") (Figs. 887, 888) is a glandular body, situ- ated around the initial portion of the urethra. It develops at puberty, atrophies after castration, and in certain animals increases in size during the breeding season. Fig. 88;.—Proximal portion of the uretlira, laid open by a median, anterior cut. (Testut.) Form and Location.—It is irregularly cone-shaped, flattened from before back- ward, and is so directed that its central axis, running downward and forward from base to apex, makes with the vertical an angle of twenty to twenty-five degrees. It occupies the median line, lying below the bladder, above the tri- angular ligament, behind the symphysis, and in front of the rectal ampulla. Volume.—In the child the prostate is only rudimentary in size ; but at puberty it begins to enlarge, attaining its full development from the twentieth to tlie twenty-fifth year. Its size, therefore, depends on the age of the subject. In the adult it is about one inch and a quarter in length (from base to apex), one and one-half inch in width at the base, a little over an inch in thickness, and it weighs from four to six drachms. After the sixtieth year of life, often earlier, the prostate frequently becomes enlarged to doulile or even tri})le its original size; and this senile hypertrophy, which is probably always pathological, may be con- fined to the middle l(il)e, or may affect the entire organ. Conformation and Relations.—The gland presents for description a base, an apex, an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral surfaces. The posterior surface, looking backward and downward, rests on the anterior wall of the rectum, through which it may be felt above the internal sjihincter and below and in front j of the trigone of tlie bladder. This surf;ice presents along the median line a shallow groove, which indicates the divisi(jn of the gland into lobes. The anterior or pubic face, convex, shorter, and of less extent than the posterior, is turned toward the symphysis, from which it is separated by the prostatic plexus of819 THE PROSTATE GLAND. I veins, the pubo-prostatic ligaments, and the anterior ligament of the bladder. The lateral mrfaees are convex, and covered l)y the anterior margins of the leva- tores ani muscles, the vesico-prostatic plexus of veins intervening. The base is situated immediately below the bladder, with the muscular fibers of which it is directly continuous. The apex rests on the upper surface of the superior layer of the triangular ligament, about half an inch behind the symphysis, and a little below the horizontal plane drawn through the highest point of the subpubic arch. The prostate is traversed from base to apex by the first portion of the urethra, which occu])ies the median plane, but is nearer to its anterior than to its posterior surface. The direction of the ejaculatory ducts has already been described. Lobes.—The prostate consists of two lateral lobes, which meet and become continuous both in front of and behind the urethra ; and this bilobed condition is indicated by a posterior median groove, the prostatic fissure, which lodges the vasa defer- (mtia and the vesiculse seminales. On median section, however, the gland is seen to consist of three jiarts, one in front of and two behind the the urethra. Of the two posterior divisions that above the ejaculatory ducts is called the third or median lobe. It is, of course, continu- ous at the sides with the lateral lobes. When I slightly enlarged the median lobe forms a ])ro- I jection on the middle zone of the base ; greater degrees of enlargement cause the posterior wall of the vesico-urethral opening to become convex, i thus changing both the length and direction of the urethra, and often interfering with micturition and the passage of sounds. Minute Structure.—Structurally the prostate consists of two principal ele- ments—stroma, and glandular tissue. The sfronia, made up of connective tissue and smooth muscular fibres, fin-ms for the jirostate a sort of external capsule, in the thickness of which are lodged the veins of tlie jirostatic plexus. By its outer surface this capsule is in contact and blended with the recto-vesical foscia and the suj)erior layer of the triangular ligament. The inner surface of the capsule gives birth to a system of trabeeula:, whicli, radiating toward the veru- montanum in the floor of the urethra, divide the gland into a number of triangu- i lar spaces, in which is lodged the glandular tissue. The muscular fibres of the ! stroma are abundant, constituting al)out one half of the entire mass of the gland. Above, they are contiinious with the muscular fibres of the bladder wall, and form a strong ring surrounding the urethra; below, they are mingled with a small amount of voluntary muscular tissue, derived probably from the trans- verse perineal muscles. The glands are of the branched or tubular variety, and number 30 or 40. They are disposed in a radiating direction around the urethra. Their ducts communicate with the urethra by minute orifices, opening into the prostatic sinuses on either side of the verumontaniun. The glands are lined by a layer of columnar epithelium. They secrete a milky fluid, which at the moment of ejaculation is added to the seminal fluid. Vessels and Nerves.—The arterial snpply is derived from the inferior vesical and the middle hemorrhoidal arteries. These furnish branches of small calibre, which ramify in the thickness of the organ, forming capillary plexuses around the walls of the glands. The veins empty into the plexus (vesico-prostatic), ! which surrounds the jirostate, terminating finally in the internal iliac vein. The lymphatics take origin around the glandular walls, ramify with the venous plexus, and finally end in the internal iliac nodes. The nerves are branches of the hypo- gastric plexus. MUSCULAR FIBRES OF BLADDER —CUT AT THEIR PROSTATIC INSERTION Fiii. SSK.—Base of the prostate glanj. (Testut after Sappey.)820 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. THE BULBO URETHRAL GLANDS. The bulbo-urethral or .mburelhral glands, more commonly called the glands of Cowper (Fig. 887), are two firm, rounded, somewhat lobulated bodies, about the size of peas. They are situated between the two layers of the triangular ligament, one on either side of the membranous urethra, and immediately above the posterior extremity of the bulb. From tlie last they are sejiarated by the inferior layer of the triangidar ligament, and some fibres of the compressor urethrie muscle. Each of these bodies represents a compound racemose gland made up of several lobules, held together by fibrous tissue. The ducts of the lobules unite to form a single duct, which escapes from the gland at its anterior and superior aspect. The ducts from both glands pierce tlie triangular ligament, and con- verging, run forward beneath the mucous membrane lor an inch or more, to open finally by minute orifices into the floor of the bulbous urethra. The acini of the glands are lined with pyramidal epithelium, the ducts by a finely granular epithelium dis])osed in two layers. The product of tliese glands is a viscid, transparent, albuminoid fluid, which is mixed with the seminal fluid at the moment of ejaculation. THE MUSCLES OF THE MALE PERINEUM. These are divided into two groups, according as they are closely related to the anal canal or to the genito-urinary organs. In the former set are the anal sphinc- FiG. 889.—Muscles of the male perineum. (Testut.) ters, the levatores ani, and the coccygei; in the latter are the transversi perinei, the ischio-cavernosi, the bulbo-cavernosi, and the constrictor urethrse. All are in pairs, excepting the sphincters (including the constrictor), which are bilaterally symmetrical. About an inch in front of the anus four of these muscles—one behind, one ia front, and one on each side—unite in a small, tendinous area, called the central point of the perineum.THE MUSCLES OF THE MALE PERINEUM. 821 The Anal Group (Fig. 889). The internal sphincter has ahvaily been described in connection with the organs of digestion. Sphincter Ani Externus, " tlie external sphincter of the anus," surrounds tlie lower part of the anal canal. It is three or four inches long and two wide. It arises from the tip of the coccyx ; its lateral halves run forward, one on each side of the canal, and unite in front of it, where they presently become insei'ted into the central point of the perineum. It closes the anal canal. Its nerves are the fourth sacral and the inferior hemorrhoidal l)ranch of the pudic. Levator Ani, "the lifter of the anus," forms the greater part of the floor of the pelvic cavity on each side. It arises partly from bone, but mostly from fascia upon a line which extends from the l)ody of the os pubis to the ischial spine. Its insertions are all at lower levels than any part of its origin, the pelvic floor sagging in the middle. Its front fibres run backward to the central point of the perineum, embracing the prostate ; those at the rear pass mesially to the coccyx ; and those between tlie front and rear, constituting the bulk of the muscle, course toward the middle line, and are inserted some into the wall of the anal canal, and some into a median raphe in front of and behind the canal. Its Tipper sui'fece is covered with the recto-vesical fascia. The two muscles, like all of the perineal muscles, act in concert. Their contraction lifts the pelvic floor and tends to counteract the action of the sphincters, thus aiding in defecation. They also assist in other expulsive movements by compressing the al)domino-pelvic con- tents. The supplying nerves are the fourth sacral and the perineal branch of the pudic. Coccygeus, "the coccyx muscle," completes the muscular floor of the pelvis on each side, so largely formed by the levator. It arises from the spine of the ischium, expands into a triangle, and is inserted into the margin of the coccyx and the last segment of the sacrum. It acts with the levator, and pulls tlie coccyx forward when it has been displaced backward, as in defecation. Its nerve is the fourth sacral. The Genito-urinary Group (Fig. 889). Transversus Perinei, " the transverse muscle of the perineum," is sometimes called " superficial " to distinguish it from the " deep transverse,"—a name often given to the constrictor urethme. It arises from the mesial side of the tuber ischii, passes forward and inward, and is inserted into the central point, fusing with its opposite fellow, the external sphincter, and the bulbo-cavernosus. Its nerve is the perineal branch of the pudic. The transversi serve to fix the central point, and thus aid the action of the other muscles which are attached to it. Ischio-cavernosus, named from its attachments, is also called erector penis. It arises from the mesial surface of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium at the sides of the cms penis, thus embracing this structure. It is inserted into the external and inferior surfaces of the anterior part of the crus. It is supplied by the {)erineal branch of the pudic nerve. Its action, by compressing the crus, is to cause and maintain erection. Bulbo-cavernosus is thus named from its attachments to the bulb of the corpus spongiosum and to the corpus cavernosum. It is also known as the ejaculator urimv, accelerator urines, and ejaculator seminis. From the central point of the perineum a tendinous raphe extends forward in the mid-line upon the bulb. This and the central point give origin on each side to one of these muscles, the fibres passing obliquel}- forward, embracing the bulb and the part of the corpus spongiosum just in front of it. The greater part are inserted on the dorsum of the spongy body, while the foremost fibres extend around the side of the cavern- ous body and are inserted on its dorsum in the mid-line. The perineal branch of the pudic nerve supplies it. The two muscles compress the hind part of the spongy urethra and drive its contents forward.THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 822 Constrictor Urethrae, al.so named compre-^fior urethras, is enclosed between the two layers of the triangidar ligament, and includes the membranous portion of the urethra, for Avhich it acts as a sphincter. It is sometimes called the tlerp ti-niificerse muscle, because it extends across from side to side between the ischio- pubic rami. Part of it goes in front and part behind the urethra. It squeezes the membranous urethra, and thus expels its contents. The dorsal nerve of the penis supplies it. THE FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The female generative organs are divided into an ivternal and an external group. The former are contained within the pelvis and comprise the following structures : (1) the ovaries, two glandular organs devoted to the production of the ova; (2) the Fallopian tubes, canals through which the ova reach the uterine cavity ; (3) the uterus, a single, median, hollow organ, which receives the fecun- dated ovum, provides it with nutrition, and expels it at maturity ; (4) the vagina, a canal by means of which the uterine cavity communicates with the external surface of the body. The e.vterual organs, grouped under the common term of vulva or pudendum, include the vulval canal and certain surrounding and contiguous structures. Fig. «90.—Female pelvic viscera, from above. Tlu- ovary and tube of tbe left side have been lifted out of place. (Testut.) THE OVARIES. The ovaries (Figs. 890, 891), two in number, are the es.sential female organs of generation. They are firm, fibrous, ovoid bodies, situated in the retro-uterine823 THE OVARIES. compartment of the pelvis, where they are connected, one on either side of tlie uterus, with the posterior hiyer of the broad litranients. On the surface of the abdominal wall, their pcisition is indicated by the mid-point of a line drawn from the anterior su])eri()r s])inous process of the ilium to the ])ubic symphysis. Dimensions, Color, and Consistence.—Each ovary is about an inch and a half in lengtii, tliree-(juarters of an inch in breadth, from one-third to one-half an inch in thickness, and weighs from one to two drachms. During pregnancy, the gland which contains the corpus luteum is much larger than its fellow. In the child the ovaries are rosy white, in the adult they are reddish ; and during men- struation, owing to the vascular engorgement, they assume a deeper tinge. They resemble the testicle in consistence, but are much less dense. In the old, the entire gland atropiiies, and becomes hard and fibrous. Conformation and Relations.—Each ovary presents for examination two sur- faces, a superior or mesial, and an inferior or lateral ; two borders, an anterior and a posterior; and two extremities, an external or superior, and an internal or inferior. The superior surface, convex and free, looks upward, forward, and in- ward, and is more or less covered by the fimbriae of the Fallopian tube and the meso-salpinx. The inferior surface, turned toward the side wall of the pelvis, often reposes in a shallow depression, tlie orarian fossa, which is l)ounded behind and below by the internal iliac vessels and the ureter, above by the external iliac vessels, and in fnjut by the pelvic attachment of the broad ligament. The anterior border, almost straight, is attached to the posterior layer of the broad ligament, between the layers of which the vessels and nerves run to enter the ovary at a depression in this border, called the hilum. The posfcrior border is free, turned toward the rectum, and covered to a varying extent by the fimbriae of the Fallopian tube. The superior extremity is rounded ; the inferior, more pointed, does not quite reach to the pelvic floor. (The relation which the ovary bears .to the Fallopian tube will be included with a description of the latter structure.) Fixation.—The ovaries are held in position by their attached anterior borders, and by the utero-ovarian, the tubo-ovarian, and the suspensory ligaments. The FIMBRI/E Fig. 891.—The uterus and appendages, front view. On the left side the tube is pulled down, the ovary lifted up. (Testut.) utero-ovarian ligament is a short rounded cord somewhat over an inch in length, which, running between the folds of the broad ligament, connects the inferior extremity of the ovary with the superior angle of the uterus, where it is attached a little below and behind the origin of the Fallopian tube. It is composed of fibrous ti.ssue and plain muscular fibres, the latter derived from the superficial824 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. muscular layer of the uterus. The tubo-ovarian Uriament, or ovarian fimbria, connects the superior extremity of the ovary with the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube. The mspensory ligament, also called the lumbo-ovarian liga- ment, or ligamentum infiindibulo-pelricum, is the upjier part of the external border of the broad ligament. Running downward from the brim of the pelvis, it is attached to the superior extremity of the ovary and carries between its folds the ovarian vessels and nerves. Direction.—Usually the ovaries assume a slightly ol)lique direction, running downward, inward, and a little forward, so tliat their long axes, if extended below, would meet in front of the uterus. Their direction, however, varies widely within normal lin\its, and is much influenced by the fact that their liga- ments are not only extensible, but two of them, the utero-ovarian and tubo- ovarian, take origin from movable points. Anotl.er important factor in deter- mining the direction of the ovary is the condition of the neighboring organs. When the uterus deviates from the median line, the ovary of the side to whicli the uterus turns is vertical ; while that of the op^josite side, its lower extremity pulled on by the utero-ovarian ligament, is nearly or quite horizontal. A full bladder or rectum, by changing the jiosition of the uterus, must also modify the direction of the ovary. Structure.—The ovary consists of a framework of stroma. Graafian follicles, and an epithelial covering continuous with but differing from the peritoneum. The stroma (" bed") is a connective tissue composed of abundant cells, white and yellow fibrous tissue, plain muscular fibres, blood-vessels, and nerves. Many of the cells ai'e s])indle-shaped, and are held by some anatomists to be cells of involuntary muscular tissue, while fithers regard them as connective-tissue cells. From the hilum tliere projects into the centre of the ovary a core made upwhollv of stroma and called the medullary mbstanee. It is very vascular and contains no Graafian follicles. From the periphery of this core numerous bands of stroma run toward the surface of the ovary, ci'ossing and intersecting each other in every direction. Arrived at the surface, these bands reunite to form beneath the epi- thelial covering a thin fibrous layer, the tunica albuginca ovarii, which bears, however, but a faint resemblance to the tunica albuginca of the testicle, and can- not be dissected from the subjacent parenchyma. Between the tunica albuginca and the medullary substance is a thin zone called the cortical layer. It is only slightly vascular, and contains in various stages of development the Graafian follicles. The epithelicd covering, composed of a single layer of columnar cells, reposes on the tunica albuginca, and is the remains of the germinal epithelium. The peritoneum, covered by flattened epithelial cells, is totally unlike this structure, which it joins at the level of the attached anterior border. Graafian Follicles (Fig. 892).—The Graafian follicles contain the ova, and are embedded in the meshes of tlie ovarian stroma. Their structure depends on the degree of maturity which they have attained, and will therefore be described in several stages. The smedlc.st follicles, varying in size from -g^-^^ to y^-Q of an inch in diameter, consist of a single layer of flattened or spindle-shaped cells, which closely invest a larger cell, the ovum. In the young child each ovary contains about thirty-six thousand follicles of this grade. In a second and more advanced stage the following structural changes are noted: (1) The surrounding stroma forms for the follicle a special wall, divisible into two lavers—an outer, fibrous layer (tunica fibrosa), which encloses the blood- trunks and lymphatic spaces of the follicle ; and an inner, vascular layer (tunica propria) composed of connective-tissue cells and a capillary plexus. (2) The spindle-shaped cells, which invested the ovum in the earlier stage, now become columnar and proliferate, making two layers, One of which lines the tunica propria, and is called the membrana granidosa, while the other invests the ovum and is known as the discus proligerus. (3) Between these two layers an albu- minous transjjarent liquid, the licpior folliculi, is developed ; and it crowds theTHE OVARIES. 825 ovum to one side of the follicle, usually that nearest to the surfiice of the ovary, where the cells of the discus proligerus are continuous with those of the mem- brana granulosa. (4) Between the membrana granulosa and the tunica propria there appears a thin structureless membrane, the manbrana propria. The largest follicles are from -^^^ to J an inch or more in diameter. Their increased size is due mainly to an increase of the liquor folliculi. In this stage the membrana granulosa and discus proligerus each consists of several layers of Fig. 892.—Graafian follicles, in different stages of development. Piagrammatic. (Tostut.) cells, derived by proliferation from the pre-existing cells. In the external layer, that is next to the tunica propria and the ovum, the cells retain their columnar outline, but the remaining layers are composed of irregular or rounded cells. Origin.—In early toetal life, the ovary is represented by a cellular mass derived from the peritoneal cover of the Wolffian body, and called the gcr^ninal epitheJimn.. Among the small cells of which it is composed are certain larger, spherical, nucleated cells, the primordial ova.. Soon, from the fibrous stroma beneath the epithelium, prolongations of connective tissue grow into the mass of cells ; and coincidently the cells, themselves becoming involuted at certain points, grow into the stroma. In this way irregular tubes lined with polyhedral or rounded cells are formed. Later, bands of stroma grow across these tubes and divide them into nests of cells. These nests are the future Graafian follicles, and each contains at least one primordial ovum. From the smaller cells are developed the membrana granulosa and discus proligerus. By about the seventh month of intra-uterine life these processes cease, and thereafter the ovaiy is covered by the single layer of epithelium already descril>ed. Location.—The smallest follicles are found in the outer layer of the cortical zone of the ovary, where they are so numerous as to impart to this region a granu- lar appearance. Many of these never develop. The larger follicles (ten to twenty in each ovary) occupy the deeper layer of the cortical zone. The largest and most mature follicles are in contact with the medullary substance and nourished by its rich va.scular supply. Extending entirely across the cortical layer, they project from the surface of the ovary in the form of clear vesicles, 2V to ^ of an inch in diameter. At puberty a certain number of follicles become enlarged, and from that time until the climacteric new ones are being constantly developed. Structure of the Ova.—The human ovum in the primordial stage is about Ywo'Q inch in diameter, in the mature stage its diameter is increased to y^^- of an inch. It is developed from a nucleated cell and presents the following parts: (1) an outer covering representing the cell wall, and called the zona, pel- lucida or vitelline membrane; (2) within this a mass of protoplasm, the vitellus or826 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. yolk; (3) situated cxcentrically in tlio vitellus the germinal vesicle, yv\n(;\i repre- sents the nucleus of the cell ; (4) the nucleolus or germinal sjjot. The zona peUueida, a thick strf)ng and transparent membrane, forms the outer covering of the ovum. It is marked by numenjus radiating striaj, and for this rea- son is sometimes called the zona radlata. The striae are supposed to be minute canals, through which nutrition reaches the ovum, while it is still in the Graafian follicle, and through which the spermatozoa may afterward pass in the pi'ocess of fecunda- tion. The yolk or vitellus is a soft substance contained within the zona radiata. It consists of granules embedded in a fine reticulum of proto])lasm. The germinal vesicle, YoViT kttt of '"ch in diameter, lies near the periphery of the ovum. It is composed of a structureless membrane, containing a fine clear matrix, in which are embedded a few granules. The germinal sjxjf, or nucleolus, g-gVq- Yjfj-f) of an inch in diameter, occupies the side of the germinal vesicle nearest to the periphery of the ovum. There may be more than one. Origiii.—The primordial ova are scattered among the other cells of the germi- nal epithelium, and with them descend into the substance of the ovary, as already described. Some, however, remain behind, and are found among the single layer of columnar cells, which covers the surface of the ovary. Tliese probably undergo no further developnient. Discharge.—Rupture of a Graafian follicle, and sometimes more than one, occurs shortly before or during each menstrual period. It takes place at a point in the peripheral pole of the follicle called the sfigma, ("point") or macula (" spot") J'olliculi. The wall at this point is scantily supplied with blood-vessels, and, as the follicle nears maturity, it undergoes fatty degeneration. The ovum with the liquor folliculi and cells of the discus proligerus is discharged on the surface of the ovary. Corpora Lutea.—A corpus luteum (" yellow body ") occupies the site of each ruptured Graafian follicle, and is ]>roduced by certain changes which take j)lace in the follicular wall. A short time before the follicle is ready to rupture, the cells of the tunica projiria begin to proliferate, and the wall of the follicle is thrown into folds, into which project newly formed vascular loops. A blood-clot fills the follicle after rupture, but it is soon absorbed and the folds, growing into the cavity, take its place. In the non-pregnant the whole structure begins to shrink in about two weeks, and in a short time disappears. The corpus luteum of preg- nancy differs much from that just described. It is larger and persists for a longer time. As the blood-clot disappears, a peculiar yellowish connective tissue (yel- low probably because the cells ai'c loaded with oil-globules) takes its place. After several months the corpus luteum ceases to grow, but it is still present, though much reduced in size, even at the end of pregnancy. The surface of the ovary is smooth until puberty. After that time it grows more and more uneven, due to the scarring which follows the formation of the corpora lutea. Vessels and Nerves.—Each ovary is supplied with blood by a branch from the abdominal aorta, the ovarian artery, which corresjionds to the sjiermatic in the male. This vessel is carried to the ovary between the layers of the suspensory ligament. It divides into two branches : a tubal, distril)uted to the Fallopian tube, and an ovarian. The latter runs in a flexuous course along the attached border of the ovary, to which it sends from ten to twelve branches, and ends by anastomosing with the uterine artery near the superior angle of the uterus. The branches to the ovary, also tortuous, end in capillary plexuses in the tunica propria of the Graafian follicles. The veins form in the middle of the organ a considerable mass, called the hulh of the ovary. Emerging from the hilum, these vessels join with some of the uterine veins to form between the layers of the broad ligament the peinipinifoi-m (" tendril-form ") plexus. From this the blood is collected by a single trunk, the ovarian vein, which follows the course of the corresponding artery. The right ovarian vein empties into the inferior^vena cava, where it is supplied with a valve. The left joins the renal vein at a right angle,THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. 827 and is without valves. Tiie Ijpnphatics hcgm as minute spaces in the tunica fibrosa of the follicles, around which they form plexuses. At the hilum they are condensed into five or six trunks ; and, foUowinuj the veins, they finally empty into the lumbar nodes. The nerves are derived from the ovarian plexus of the sympathetic. An additional supjjly is probably received from the uterine nerves, branches of the third and fourth sacral. Migration.—-The ovaries are situated primarily in the lumbar region, in front of the psoas, and near the kidney. About the third month of intra-uterine life they begin to descend, and at the ninth month they reach the brim of the ])elvis. This descent is chiefly due to the fact that the lumbar region grows away from the ovary. Sometimes, though rarely, the gland may remain in its primitive situation, or it may descend into the inguinal canal, even passing through the external abdominal ring. THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. The Fallopian tubes, or oviducts ("egg-ducts") (Figs. 890, 891), two in number, are the excretoiy ducts of the ovaries and serve to convey the ova to the uterine cavity. Location.—They are situated in the free or u])per margin of the l)road liga- ments, between the ovaries behind and the round ligaments in front. Internally they are continuous with the superior angles of the uterus, externally each tube is attached to the superior or outer extremity of the corresponding ovary. That portion of the broail ligament below each tube, and between it and the ovary, is called the meso-salpinx ("mesentery of the tube"). ■ The oviducts are, therefore, fixed in position by their continuity with the uterus, by their attachments to the ovaries, and by their imprisonment between the two peritoneal lamina^ of which the broad ligaments are composed. External Conformation.—Each tube is trumpet-shaped, and increases in size from within outward. At the ovarian extremity, it expands to enclose a funnel- shaped space, the hifundihiihivi or pavUion. It varies in length from four to five inches, and is divided into three parts as follows : (a) the inner extremity or interstitial portion ; (l>) the middle portion or body ; (e) tlie external or fim- briated extremity. The iiifersfitial portion is contained in the thickness of the uterine wall. Its canal, very narrow, is continuous with the uterine cavity through a small opening, the ostium iderinum. (" door of woml) "), which is only large enough to admit a small bristle. The bodtj is subdivided into two parts, an inner or isthmus and an outer or ampulla. The isthmu.s is hard, cylindrical, straight, and nearly horizontal. It measures an inch and a half in length, and has a diameter of about one-eighth of an inch. The canal of this division is still very small, though somewhat inci'eased as compared witli that of the interstitial por- tion, with which it is continuous. The ampidla ("bottle") or receptacuhun mninis (" reservoir of seed") extends from the isthmus to the fimbriated extremity. It is distinguished from the former by the fact that it has thinner walls, and is softer, and flattened antero-posteriorly. It is also markedly flexuous, and the diameter is almost twice that of the isthmus. Its canal, increased in size toward the outer extremity, is irregular in calibre, and large enough to admit a uterine sound. The fimbriated extremity (infundibuliun) opens downward, backward, and inward. It is the most movable part of the tube, and receives the ova after their discharge from tiie (xranfian follicles. Tliis extremity may be divided for description into an internal and an external surfiice, a base and a summit. The external surfiice, continuous with the outer surface of the tube, is smooth and covered by visceral peritoneum. The internal surface is continuous with the corresponding surface of the ampulla, and lined by a prolongation of its mucous membrane. At the summit, the infundibulum communicates with the cavity of the ampulla througli a narrow opening, a line to a line and a half in diameter,THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 828 called the ostium abdominale. The base is festooned by ten to fifteen diverging processes, called fimbrioe (" fringes "), which are arranged in two or three con- centric circles. The bases of these are attached, their apices are free, and their edges are cut intf) nmnerous secondary fringes. The ovarian fimbria, longer than its fellows, runs from the lower part of the ampulla, to become attached to the superior extremity of the ovary. On its inner surface a gutter, lined by mucous membrane, extends from the ovary to the ostium abdominale. By its outer surface it is in contact with a band of smooth muscular fibres continued from the muscular tunic of the tube. Sometimes the ovarian fimbria is not quite long enough to reach the ovary ; it is then attached through the medium of this mus- cular band, wliich also carries the terminal portion of the mucous gutter. Internal Conformation.—The canal, as already stated, increases in diameter as it passes outward. Its mucous membrane is thrown into folds, making a system of longitudinal plications, which extend throughout the whole length of the canal. In the interstitial portion and isthmus these folds are simple ridges separated by shallow grooves. In the ampulla they increase in number and volume ; and the larger, extending clear across the canal, may bear on their sides secondary folds. The outer ends of these plications cross the ostium abdominale and are continued on to the inner surface of the fimbrife. Direction.—The Fallopian tulles are freely movable particularly in their outer portion. They are pushed backward by a full bladder, dejjressed by intestinal folds from above, or pushed forward when the intestines occupy the retro-uterine space. They are affected, too, by any change of position in the uterus. The direction which they pursue is therefore variable. Usually each tube runs from its inner extremity transversely outward to a point opposite the middle of the ovary, a distance of half an inch to one inch. It then runs upward, also a little backward and outward, in front of the attached border of the ovary, near to and parallel with the pelvic wall. Arrived at the sujierior extremity of the ovary it bends backward, and, after a short course in this direction, terminates by running inward and downward. It thus forms a sort of bay whose concavity, directed downward and inward, embraces the U2)per end of the ovary, while the fimbriae lie in contact with the posterior border and mesial surface of the gland. Structure.—The tube has three tunics—serous, muscular, and mucous. The two laminse of the broad ligament furnish the serous covering, and these, as they approach the tube, diverge, leaving along its lower border a narrow uncovered strip. A layer of loose areolar tissue, continuous with the subperitoneal fascia and rich in elastic fibres and blood-vessels, is found beneath the serous coat. The muscular tunic may be divided into two layers, longitudinal and circular. The former is superficial and continuous internally with the uterine muscle; externally it ends at the origin of the pavilion, except for the band, already mentioned, which accompanies the ovarian fimbria. The circular layer, also continuous with the uterine muscle, is thinnest near the fimbriated extremity, and ends at the ostium abdominale. In the vicinity of the uterus some longitudinal fibres are found within the circular. The mucous coat is continuous with the mucous lining of the uterus. Having no special submucosa, it is intimately adherent to the muscular layer. It forms the plications already described, and is lined by a single layer of columnar, ciliated epithelium, in which the ciliary motion is toward the uterus. Crossing the ostium abdominale the mucous membrane establishes itself on the inner surface of the fimbriae. At the borders of the latter, or on their outer surfaces a little beyond the borders, it merges into the peritoneum. It has no glands. Vessels and Nerves.—Arteries.—The external tubular artery is derived from the ovarian, the internal tubular from the uterine. Together these form an arcade, which travels between the layers of the meso-salpinx, and sends branches to the lower borders of the tube. The veins form in the meso-salpinx a plexus parallel to the axis of the tube, and finally empty through the pampiniform plexus into the utero-ovarian veins. The lymphatics, joining with those of the829 THE UTERUS. ovary and uterus, empty into the lumbar nodes. The nerves, derived from a plexus around the uterine and ovarian arteries, are numerous ; but their course and mode of termination are not well known. THE UTERUS. The uterus ov icomb (Figs. 890, 891, 893), a holluw organ with thick, muscular, contractile walls, is situated in the pelvis between the bladder and the rectum. Fig. 893.—Sagittal section of the lower part of a female trunk, right segment. (Testut.) In its cavity the ovum is received, retained, and developed ; and the foetus, after reaching maturity, is (>xpelled chiefly by the contractions of its muscular fibres. External Conformation.—The uterus, in form, resembles a truncated cone, whose base, turned upward, reaches to or a little above the level of the pelvic brim ; and whose summit, directed downward, projects into the upper extremitv of the vagina. It is flattened from before backward, and divided into two parts by a slight circular constriction, called the isfhiiiKs, which corresponds externallv and in front with the point at which the peritoneum is reflected from the uterus to the bladder, while internally it coincides with a narrowing of the uterine canal, known as the internal os. In virgins the isthmus is a little below the middle of830 THE ORGANt^ OF GENERATION. the long axis of the uterus ; in women who liave borne cliiklren it is plaeed at the junction of the middle and lower thirds. It divides the uterus into the body above and the cervix below. The body presents for description two surfaces, two borders, two extremities, and two angles. The anterior surface is slightly, the posterior markedly, convex and both are covered by peritoneum. The lateral borders, also convex, converge a little as they run downward to the isthmus. The sujierior extremity or fuiidm (sometimes called a border) is broad, convex, and covered by the peritoneum, as it passes from the anterior to the posterior surface. At the inferior extremity the body is continuous with the cervix. The angles, right and left, are formed by the junction of the superior extremity with the lateral borders. They are continuous with the corres]>onding Fallopian tubes. The cervix, narrower than the body and cylindrical in form, lias a slightly wider diameter in the middle than at either extremity. It is continuous above with the body, below it projects into the vagina, which is attached around its circumference somewhat higher behind than in front. Tliat ])ortion al)ove the vaginal attachment (supra-vaginal segment) comprises about two-tliirds of the total length of the cervix in front, about one half V)ehind. The uiiddle or vaginal segment—tluit part to which the ^■agina is attached—is about one-fifth of an inch in length, and is placed obliquely. The lower or intra-vaginal segment is cone-shaped, covered by mucous membrane like that of the vagina, and presents at its summit a ciirular or transverse aperture, the external os. Internal Conformation.—The cavity of the uterus is divided into two parts by the internal os. The upper portion belongs to the body, the k)wer to tlie cervix. The long axes of these segments may lie in the same straight line, but usually tliey join to form an angle, opening anteriorly, of 140^ to 170° (Testut). The cavity of the body (Figs. 894, 895), triangular in outline and with the Fig. 894.—The uterus of a virgin, in coronal Fig. 895.—The uterus of a woman wlio has borne a section. child, in coronal section. base uppermost, presents two surfaces, three borders, and three open angles. The surfaces, anterior and posterior, are in contact. All the borders, in the virgin, are convex internally ; in women who have borne children the two lateral are straight or even concave. At the superior angles the cavity of the body communicates with the oviducts, at the inferior angle, or internal os, it is con- tinuous with the cervical canal. The cavity of the cervix, fusiform in outline, presents two surfaces, two boi'ders, and two openings. The surfaces, distinguished as anterior and posterior, are in contact. On each may be seen a peculiar formation, the arbo)- vike uterma cedar of the womb "), consisting of a median longitudinal ridge, from which831 THE UTERUS. secondary and parallel ridges pass upward and outward to the lateral borders. In these ridges are smooth muscular fibres derived from the internal muscular layer of the uterine wall. The borders, situated laterally, are concave internally, thus widening the central portion of the cavity. The superior opening {os uteri internum) is not a simple opening, but a short canal. The inferior opening (os uteri externum) is usually a transverse aperture, about one-twelfth of an incli in length. It is bounded by two lips, an anterior and a posterior. The latter is the longer, due to the higher attachment of the vagina behind, but the former is placed on a lower level and hence ajtpears on pal[)ation to be the longer. Both are normally in contact witli the jiosterior vaginal wall. The outline of the external os is much modified by child-bearing. Dimensions, Consistence, and Weight.—The uterus is about three inches in length, one and one-half to two inches in breadth at the upper and widest part of the body, and nearly an inch in thickness. In women who have borne children these diameters are all increased. The walls ai'e about three-eighths of an inch in thickness. After death they are dense and resisting, l)ut during life they are soft enough to retain sometimes the imprint of contiguous intestinal folds. The whole organ varies in weight from seven to twelve drachms. Direction.—The direction of the uterus is variable, and much influenced by the condition of the surrounding organs. Thus, a full bladder will j^nsh the uterus toward the sacrum, a full rectum will press it forward. When the bladder and rectum are empty, the fundus looks toward the umbilicus, and the uterus forms with the vagina a right or slightly obtuse angle. As a rule, the organ does not occupy the median line of the body, but is somewhat deflected, usually to the right. There is also present a certain amount of torsion, by means of which the left superior angle is carried a little farther forward than the right. Peritoneum (Fig. 896).—The peritoneum is reflected from the bladder to the anterior surface of the uterus at a level which usually corresponds to the isthmus, but may be slightly above or below. It then invests in the order named the anterior surface of the body, the fun- dus, the posterior surface of the body, and the j)osterior surface of the supra- vaginal segment of the cervix. It is also continued downward over the upper fourth of the posterior vaginal wall, and is then reflected to the front and sides of the rectum. At the lateral borders of the uterus the peritoneum from the anterior surface joins with that from the posterior to make up the broad or lateral liga- ments. Certain portions of the cervix have thus no peritoneal covering. They are the intra-vaginal and vaginal segments, and the anterior surface of the supra-vaginal portion. This latter rests against the l)ladder from which it is separated by areolar tissue, continuous with the subperitoneal fascia. Areolar tissue is also found covering the lower part of the posterior surface of the uterus, and extending outward between the layers of the broad ligaments. Peritoneal Pouches.—The peritoneum, as it dips into the recess between the bladder and the uterus, forms a shallow pouch, the utero-t^esical, which is occupied, when the bladder is empty, by coils of small intestine. Behind the uterus it forms a second and deeper pouch, the redo-vesical, or cul-de-mc of Dour/fas. This is limited in front by the cervix and upper part of the vagina, behind by the rectum, and laterally by two folds of peritoneum, the folds of Dovglas, which extend from the cervix in front to the sides of the rectum behind. The folds (RECTAL PERITONEUM ECTO-UTERINE POUCH ANTERIOR AND POS- TERIOR LAYERS OF BROAD LIGAMENT ^ VESICAL PERITONEUM VESICO-UTERINE Fig. 896.—The cervix uteri anrl upper end of the vaffina, showing their relations to the peritoneum. Diagrammatic. (Testut.)832 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. of Douglas, together with the smooth muscular fibres contained between their layers, constitute the utero-sacral ligaments. Coils of small intestine frequently occupy the upper, but are rarely found in the lower, part of the recto-vaginal pouch. Ligaments.—The uterus is maintained in position by six important ligaments, arranged in three jxiirs. They are the broad or lateral, the round, and the utero- sacral. The broad or lateral ligaments, two in number, extend from the lateral borders of the uterus and u])per part of the vagina outward to the lateral walls of the pelvis, where they merge into tlie parietal peritoneum. They are composed of two apposed, serous laminte, which are continuous with the peritoneum covering the anterior and posterior surfaces of the uterus. Between these laminse are found the following structures : (a) the Fallopian tube ; (6) the ovary and its ligament; (r) the round ligament; (d) blood-vessels and lymphatics; (e) nerves; (/') remains of certain fcetal structures; {g) smooth muscular fibres; (h) areolar tissue, rich in fat and continuous Avith the subjjeritoneal fascia. Each ligament has two surfaces and four bordei's. At the superior border, which is free, the laminte are continuous and enfold the Fallopian tube. The inferior border is attaclied to the floor of the pelvis, areolar tissue intervening between it and the recto-vesical fascia. The ureter crosses obliquely beneath this border. The external border is divided into two portions, upper and lower. The latter is firndy attached to the pelvic fascia, and transmits the uterine artery and the round ligament. The uj^jier and shorter portion is free, and con- nects the fimbriated extremity of the Fallo])ian tube with the side of the pelvis. It is called the Ugamenhnn infimdibulo-pclvivvm, and carries between its layers the ovarian vessels. (This is usually described as a part of the superior border.) The internal border is in relation with the side of the uteriis and upper part of the vagina, and lying between its laminse are the utero-vaginal vessels. The anterior lamina, shorter than the posterior, is in relation with the bladder. It is partially raised from the posteri<n' l)y the round ligament, over Avhich it falls in a more or less definite fold. The posterior lamina, directed toward the rectum, gives off a special extension to enclose the ovary and its ligament. The fold or extension surrounding the Fallopian tul)e is sometimes called the meso-salpinx ; between its layers there are no muscular fibres. The smooth nuiscular fibres of the broad ligaments are derived from the superficial muscular layer of the uterus. Passing outward between the laminae, they become attached to the pelvic fascia and help to sustain the uterus. With the areolar tissue they also form a support for the blood-vessels. The round ligaments, about five inches in length, are also symmetrically ar- ranged, one on either side. Each takes origin from the corresponding superior angle of the uterus in front and a little below the attachment of the Fallopian tube. From this point it runs obliquely forward and outward to gain the internal abdominal ring. Entering this, it traverses the inguinal canal, and, after emerging from the external ring, it finally ends in the tissues of the labia raajora and mons Veneris. It is divided into four portions—pelvic, iliac, inguinal, and vulvar. The direction of the pelvic portion is at first a little downward, then upward as it emerges from the pelvis. The iliac portion, lying behind the ])eritonenm, crosses in front of the external iliac artery and vein. At the internal ring the ligament winds around the outer side of the deep ejiigastric artery, and the inguinal portion gives oft' fibres, which ai-e attached to the walls of the canal. The vulvar portion breaks up into numerous divergent, connective- tissue filaments, some of which are attached to the symphysis, while the remainder are lost in the tissues of the mons and labia majora. Structurally the round ligaments are composed of plain and striated muscular fibres, areolar tissue, blood-vessels, and nerves. The plain fibres are derived from the sujierficial muscular laver of the uterus; the striated, found only in the distal portion of the ligament, are acquired from the internal oblique and transversalis muscles and833 THE UTERUS. represent the cremaster in tlie male. They help to attach the ligament to the pillars of the external ring and the pubic spine. A tube of ])eritoneum, repre- senting the processus vaginalis, accompanies the ligament into the inguinal canal. It sometimes remains pervious even in the adult, and is called the caudl of Nack. The utero-sacral ligaments are partly serous, partly of smooth muscular fibres. The serous portions are identical witli the folds of Douglas already described. They extend between the cervix and sides of the rectum, forming the lateral boundaries of the recto-vaginal pouch. The muscular fibres are continuous with the superficial muscular layer of the uterus and vagina. Running l)etween the layers of tlie folds of Douglas they serve to connect the cervix and vagina with the sacrum. The peritoneum at the bottom of the utero-vesical pouch is sometimes referred to as the anterior Ugameiit of the uterm, while that which floors the recto-vaginal pouch is called the recto-vaginal ligament. Minute Structure.—The uterus consists of three coats—serous, muscular, and raucous. The serous coat has already been described. The mtm-alar coat makes up the bulk of the uterine walls. It is dense and resisting, cuts with a grating sound, and is grayish on section. It is composed of smooth muscular fibres, intermingled with areolar tissue, vessels, and nerves. The arrangement of these fibres is very complex, but in the gravid uterus they may be divided into three layers, which are, however, not entirely independent. The mn,eons membrane lining the body of the uterus is intimately adherent to the internal muscular layer. It is pale and smooth, and presents the openings of numerous glands. Its external layer, or corium, is composed of embryonic con- nective tissue in which may be seen numerous round, spindle-shaped, or irregular cells. Lining this is a single, ciliated, columnar epithelium, the ciliary motion being from within outward. The ghtiids are of the tubular variety, bounded by a basement membrane, and lined by ciliated, columnar epithelium, continuous with that found on the free surface. They pass obliquely or take a tortuous course through the corium ; and their blind extremities, single, bifurcated, or even trifurcated, repose on tlie internal muscular layer, or penetrate between its fibres. The ciliary motion in the glands is toward the uterine cavity. The mucous membrane of the cervix differs from that of the body. It is firmer and thrown into numerous folds, the ridges of the arbor vitje already described. The corium has fewer cell-elements, but is richer in fibres. The epithelium in the upper part of the cervix is the same as that found in the body ; below, at the level of the external os or a little higher, it changes into a laminated epithelium, continuous with that which lines the vagina and covers the external surface of the os. The glands, tubular and racemose in type, are numerous and open between the ridges. They are lined in their deeper portions by gol)let cells, and jiroduce a thick alkaline mucus. Sometimes by the occlusion of their open- ings these glands become cystic ; they then appear as clear or yellowish vesicles, and are called the ovida. of Naboth. Vascular papilhe are found in the lower part of the cavity of the cervix, and over the outer surfiice of its intra-vaginal segment. In the latter situation there are no glands. Structural Modifications During Menstruation and Pregnancy.—In m^en sir nation the more important changes take ])lacc in the mucous membrane of the body, which increases in vascularity and becomes thickened. Following this there are disintegration and removal of the su]>erficial part of the membrane, the process beginning at the internal os and extending toward the fundus. Kegeneration, brought about by a proliferation of the colls whicii remain in the deeper portions of the glands, is rapid and com])lete. In these changes the cervix takes little or no part. In gestation the whole organ becomes immensely hypertro]>hied, increasing in weight from an ounce to a pound and a half or even more. The muscular fibres not only increase in size, but in the early months new ones are added. The mucous membrane is at first the seat of changes similar to those which occur in menstruation, but these proceed further, and later bring about the 5S834 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. formatiou of the decidua. The nienihraiie, as soon as tlie ovule has been engrafted upon it, loses its cylindrical epithelium while the cells of the corium increase. The ridges of the arbor vitte disappear ; otherwise there is but little change in the cervix. At parturition the greater part of the mucous meml)rane is destroved to be restored in twenty to twenty-five days by the same method as after* men- struation. Following parturition the uterus never attains its former (virgin) size. Variations Depending on Age.—In the foetus, the uterus is contained in the abdominal cavity, the cervix is larger than the body, the fundus is iindeveloped, and the ridges of the arbor vitae are distinct. At jniberty, the cervix and body are about equal in length, and the fundus has reached the level of the pelvic brini. In the old tiie entire organ atrofihies. Vessels and Nerves (Fig. 897).—The arferie.<< which sup])ly the uterus are arranged in threi' pairs—the uterine, the funicular, and the ovarian. The nterine artenj is a branch of the anterior division of the internal iliac. From its origin TUBftL VESSELS OS uteri' uagin* cut open behind Fig. 897.—Vessels of the uterus and its appendages, rear view. (Testut.) it descends along the pelvic wall into the base of the broad ligament, then, taking a horizontal course, it crosses in front of the ureter and reaches the side of the cer- vix at the level of the vaginal insertion or a little below. From this point it is reflected upward, running close beside the lateral border of the uterus until it reaches the superior angle, where it ends by dividing into two branches, one of which anastomoses with the ovarian artery while the other is distributed to the Fallopian tube. From the ascending portion of the vessel numerous transverse tortuous branches are given off to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the uterus. These ]ienetrate the uterine walls, and ramify in the middle muscular layer, where they divide into two sets of branches, superficial and deep. The former return to sup])ly the outer muscular layer and the serous coat, the latter are distributed to the mucous membrane, forming plexuses in its superficial layers and around the glands. At the level of the isthmus the transverse branches are larger than else- where, and, with the corresjionding divisions of the opposite artery, they form on the outer surface of the uterus the arterial circle of Hugnier. Several small liranches to the bladder and vagina arise from the uterine artery at or near its point of reflection. The fiuiicii/ar ("pertaining to a rope") artery, from the superior vesical, joins the round ligament at the internal abdominal ring and divides into two branches, superior and inferior. The former accompanies the ligament to the superior angle of the uterus, where it anastomoses with the uterine and ovarian arteries ; the latter follows the ligament to its distal termination.THE VAGINA. 835 communicating there with the external piulic. The ovarian artery—described with the ovary—aids in supplying the uterus through its communications with the uterine and funicular artei'ies. The veins, which are very large, have nf) valves. Taking origin in the capillary ])lexuses, they converge to form a set of special canals, the uterine sinuses, which are lodged in the meshes of the middle muscular layer. From this point they are directed to the lateral borders of the uterus, where they form between the layers of the broad ligament the uterine plexuses, one on either side. From these the blood is collected by three trunks. One, the uterine vein, accompanying the artery of that name, empties into the internal iliac vein ; a second, by its junction with the veins from the ovary and Fallopian tube, helps to make up the pampiniform plexus ; while a third (unim- portant) trunk follows the funicular artery. The lyviphafics of the mucous mem- brane begin as minute spaces between the fibres of the corium. Joined by the lym])hatics of the muscular coat, they emerge and form beneath the serous cover- ing a rich plexus, from which the lymjjh is carried by three trunks. The first, collecting chiefly from the body of the uterus, the ovary, and the Fallopian tube, accompanies the ovarian vein and empties into the lumbar nodes ; the second, carrying lymph from the cervix, follows the uterine vein, and ends in the pelvic nodes; while the third, following the vein of the round ligament, ends in the inguinal nodes. The nerves, consisting of both medullated and non-mcdullated fibres, are derived from the inferior hypogastric and renal plexuses of the sym- pathetic, and from the third and fourth sacral nerves. The foetal remains to be observed in connection Avith the uterus or its adnexa are the parovarium, the duct of Gartner, the organ of Giraldes, and the hydatid of Morgagni. The parovarium (epoophoron, or organ of Kosenmiiller) is a vestige of the Wolffian body, and represents the vasa efferentia of the testicle. It consists of twelve to twenty tubules, arranged in the form of a triangle, and contained in the thickness of the broad ligament, between the ovary and the Fallopian tube, where it may be seen by holding the ligament against the light. The apex of the triangle reaches to the attached border of the ovary, the base is turned toward the Fallopian tube. The ovarian ends of the tubules are blind ; their ojiposite extremities oj)en into a collecting duct which runs parallel with the outer portion of the Fallopian tube, and represents the canal of the epididymis. Both the col- lecting duct and the tubules are lined with a ciliated, columnar e])ithelium. The canals of Gartner, always present in certain animals, are the remnants of the lower portions of the Wolffian ducts. The latter, in the male, develop into the tail of the epididymis and the vas deferens; in the female they usually dis- appear. When persistent, however, they are found, as minute tubes or fibrous cords, one on either side of the uterus and vagina. Above, these tubes may be continuous with the collecting tubes of the parovarium ; below, tliey may some- times be traced to the vicinity of the urinary meatus. The organ of Giraldes in the male, is represented in the female, by a few scat- tered tubules, remnants also of the Wolffian body, which lie between the layers of the broad ligament, nearer to the uterus than the parovarium. The hydatid of Morgagni, a relic of the Miillerian duct, is usually found in the form of a small pedieulated cyst, attached to one of the finibrise of the Fal- lopian tube. It is lined with ciliated, columnar epithelium, and filled with a clear fluid. THE VAGINA. The vagina (" sheath") (Fig. 898) is a distensible, musculo-membranous canal, which extends from the uterus to the vulva. It is the organ of cojiulation in the female, and in addition affords passage to the menstrual flow and the foetus. Location, Direction, and Dimensions.—It is situated in the median line of the pelvis, between the bladder and rectum. Running downwai'd and forward, itsTHE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 836 lower extremity makes with the horizontal plane an angle of 60° to 70°, open- ing posteriorly. The axis of the canal is not straight, l)nt presents a posterior eoncavity, which fits a corresponding convexity of the rectal wall. The anterior vaginal wall measures two to two and a half inches in length ; the posterior varies from two and a half to three and a half inciies. Continuous above with Fig. 898.—Sagittal section of the vagina and neigliboring parts. (Testut.) the cervix, the vagina is further fixed in position by its connections with the bladder, rectum, vulva, and perineum. Conformation and Relations.—Above, where the vagina embraces the cervix, it is circular; below, at the vulvo-vaginal junction, it is elliptical, Avith the major axis antero-posterior. Between these points the anterior and posterior walls are in contact, thus reducing the canal to a mere fissnre, which on transverse section is H-sha])ed. The vagina may therefore be divided for further descrijition into two surfaces—the external or attached, and the internal or free ; and two ex- tremities—the upper and the lower. The external surface presents two faces, an anterior and a posterior, and two lateral borders. The upper half of the anterior face is in relation with the bladder, the lower lialf with the urethra. The lower two-thirds of the latter is buried in the anterior vaginal wall, the upper third and the bladder are separated fi'om this face by areolar tissue, continuous with the subperitoneal fascia. In this fascia the terminal segment of the ureter runs obliquely, to open into the bladder wall at a point one and a quarter inches below the level of the external OS. (It must not be forgotten that in the female a portion of the base of the bladder rests against the anterior surface of the cervix.) The posterior face is covered above to a varying extent (usually about one inch) by the peritoneum as it dips into the cul-de-sac of Douglas. The middle joortion rests against the rectum, from which it is separated by a continuation of suliperitoncal fascia. Below, it is widely separated from the termination of the rectum by the triangu- lar ]ierineal body. The lateral borders are in contact above with a small portion of the broad ligaments. In the upper third they are crossed obliquely by the ureters, and below this they are embraced by the anterior margins of the levatores ani muscles and the accompanying recto-vesical fascia. By the side of the up])er half of each lateral border may sometimes be found a small tube, the continuation of the duct of Gartner.THE VULVA. 837 On the internal or mucous surface are two median longitudinal ridges, the columns of the vagina, situated one on the anterior, the other on the posterior wall. The latter is sometimes double. From these, numerous secondary ridges pass transversely outward to the lateral borders. Both the columns and secondary ridges are better marked in the lower portion of the vagina than above. After child-birth they diminish in ])roniinence or entirely disappear. The superior cxtrcinitji is attached to the circumference of the cervix reacliing higlier behind than in front. With the outer surface of the intra-vaginal seg- ment of the cervix it makes a circular pericervical trench, the fornix, which is deepest behind. The inferior extreinity pierces the triangular ligament, and is the narrowest and least dilatable portion of the canal. Structure.—The vaginal wall, about one-sixth of an inch in thickness, con- sists of three coats—an outer of connective tissue, a middle of muscular tissue, and an inner of nuicous meml>rane. The connective-tissue coat is a thin white fibrous structure, derived from the recto-vesical fascia. It contains a few smooth muscular fibres, and carries in its meshes a plexus of veins. The muscular coat, of unstriped fibres, may be divided into two layers, superficial and deep. The fibres of the superficial layer, longitudinal in arrangement, are continuous with the superficial muscular layer of the uterus. They are also continuous above with the utero-sacral ligaments, by means of which the vagina is attached to the sacrum. Below, some of the longitudinal fibres are inserted into the ischio- ])ubic rami, while others are lost on the triangular ligament and recto-vesical fascia. The deep layer is made up of circular fibres, whit:h surround the canal. Near the vulvo-vaginal orifice these fibres are condensed into a ring of some strength, which forms an involuntary sphincter. The striated sphincter of the vagina is derived from the muscles of the perineum. The mucous coat, thrown into folds as already described, is covered with stratified epithelium, continuous witli that lining the vulva below and covering the cervix above. Its deep layer or corium is closely attached to the muscular tunic, no special submucosa inter- vening. The lower portion of this coat is studded with numerous conical or fili- form papillfe. The upper ]iortion ])resents a few closed follicles ; otherwise the mucous meml)rane is entirely devoid of glands. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries are all derived from the internal iliac or its branches. The vaginal arteiy, corresponding to the inferior vesical in the male, runs along the lateral borders of the vagina, supplying arteries to the anterior and posterior surfaces. A small vaginal branch from the uterine, and anastomos- ing branches from the remaining vesicals, middle hemorrhoidal, and internal jnidic are also supplied. The vei)is, remarkable for their numl)er and volume, direct themselves to the lateral borders, wliere they form the vac/inal plexuses, one t)n either side. These comnumicate with the veins of the uterus, broad ligaments, bladder, rectum, and bulbs of the vagina, and finally empty through the uterine and vaginal trunks into the internal iliac vein. The lymphatics from the lower third of the vagina, joining with those from the vulva, empty into the sujierfieial inguinal nodes ; the remainder end in the internal iliac nodes. The nerves, derived from the hypogastric plexus, the fourth sacral, and the pudic, are dis- tributed to the mucous and muscular tunics. Their mode of termination is unknown. THE VULVA. The vulva or pudendum (Fig. 899), ovoid in outline, is bounded in front by the anterior abdominal wall, behind by the ])erineum, and laterally by the inner surfaces of the thighs. It includes the following parts : (1) the mons Veneris, the lal)ia majora, and the labia minora (all derived from the integument) ; (2) between the labia a median space called the interlabial or vulval cleft; (3) an erectile apparatus; (4) certain glandular structures.838 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The Mons Veneris. The mons Veneris is an elevation situated in front of the upper part of the pubic symphysis. Anteriorly and above, it merges into the integument covering the lower part of the abdomen, posteriorly it is continuous with tlie labia majora, laterally it is limited by the right and left inguinal folds. In structure the mons consists of modified skin, deeply pigmented, and covered with hair, beneath which is a collection of areolar and adipose tissue, intersected by a serie^s of MONS VENERIS Fig. 899.—Vulva of a virgin. Tlie labia liave been widely separated. (Testut.) elastic laminje. The latter take origin deeply from the linea alba and abdominal aponeurosis, and end by becoming attached to the deep surface of the skin. The Labia Majora. The labia majora ("greater lips"), two longitudinal folds of modified integu- ment, are continuous with the mons Veneris in front, and extend to within an inch of the anus behind. Each fold is about three inches in length, and presents for description two extremities, two surfaces, and two borders. The anterior extremities by their junction with the mons and with each other make up the anterior commissure; the posterior, having become very thin, are united by the posterior commissure or fourchetfe {" fork "), which constitutes the thin, anterior edge of the perineum. The outer surface, separated from the corresponding thigh by the genito-crural fold, is deeply ]iigmented, covered with hair, and abundantly supplied with sudoriparous and sebaceous glands ; the iimer is in con- tact, when closed, in part with its fellow, in part with the labium minus of the same side. The skin, which lines this surface in the vicinity of the free border, resembles that on the outer surface; more deeply it is rosy, moist, studded withTHE VULVA. 839 sebaceous follicles, and presents only rudinientary hairs. The superior or attached borders correspond to the ischio-pubic rami, with which they are connected by numei'ous fibrous bands. The inferior borders are free, and the fissure between them is called the rinia ("crack") piodcndi. In infants, young women, and fleshy subjects the labia majora are firm, and directly ajiplied one to the other ; in the old, the thin, and those who have borne many children, they shrivel and gape apart. Beneath the integument of each labium majus there is found a tissue, resem- bling the dartos of the scrotum, but much thinner; beneath this a layer of adipose and connective tissue ; and still deeper an elastic, pear-shaped sac, called Bivca\s pouch. This contains connective tissue and fat; and its mouth, applied to the external abdominal ring, may sometimes receive the termination of the canal of Nuck. Morphologically the labia majora correspond to the scrotum in the male. The Labia Minora. The labia minora ("smaller lips"), or nyinphce, are two smaller longitudinal folds, placed within the labia majora, and running from the clitoris downward and backward for about one and one-half inches. They also present two sur- faces, two borders and two extremities. The external surfaces are in contact with the labia majora, the internal with each other. The superior borders are attached, the inferior, often crenated, are free. The anterior extremities divide, each into two bands. The superior of these unite above the dorsum of the clitoris to form its prepuce ; the inferior, uniting beneath the clitoris to which they are attached, form its frenum. Posteriorly each labium terminates opposite to or a little behind the middle of the rima pudendi. Rarely it is continuous farther backward, and is joined to its fellow by a slender transverse fold, placed on the anterior edge of the posterior commissure. This fold then becomes the fourchette. The nymphse are composed of modified skin, beneath which is a connective tissue, rich in elastic and smooth muscular fibres, but containing no fat. In the young, where they are protected by the labia majora, they are rosy in color and moist, approaching in character the mucous membranes; when thev project beyond the labia majora, however, they become dry and deeply pigmented. Their surfaces are free from hairs and sudoriparous glands, but are abundantly supplied with sebaceous glands, which secrete a thick, white substance, akin to the preputial smegma, and with papillae, which contain nerves ending in tactile corpuscles. The Interlabial Space. The interlabial space or vulval cleft is bounded on either side by the labia majora and minora, in front by the clitoris, and behind by the posterior comnn's- sure. It receives the orifice of the vagina and the external opening of the urethra, becoming therefore the common uro-genital opening. Ordinarily, the tissues falling together, the space is obliterated, becoming merely a fissure ; but, when the labia are drawn apart, it becomes broad, shallow, and elliptical in out- line. Superficially, it is lined with modified skin, dee])ly with mucous membrane, which merges into that of the vagina and urethra. Tlie line of demarcation between the skin and mucous membrane runs from beneath the prepuce of the clitoris backward along the inner surface and attached border of the labium minus to the outer aspect of the hymen (Hart). In the floor of the interla- bial space from before backward may be seen the vestibule, meatus urinarius, orifice of the vagina, hymen, and fossa navicularis. The Vestibule is a shallow triangular sj^ace, bounded laterally by the nymphse, and behind by the orifice of the vagina. Its apex, directed forwai'd, coincides with the clitoris. The Meatus Urinarius, the external opening of the urethra, is situated in the median line, at the back part of the vestibule, about an inch behind the clitoris..THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 840 and just in front of the vagina. Directly behind it there is an elevation of mucous membrane, the vaginal tubercle, -which serves as a guide to the introduction of a catheter. The Inferior Orifice of the Vagina (introitus vac/vnce), when the hymen has been removed, is elliptical in outline. Its diameters are much greater in women who have borne children than in the nulliparous. The Hymen {" a membrane") (Fig. 900) is placed at the vulvo-vaginal junction, narrowing to a greater or less degree the inferior vaginal orilice. It is composed CRESCENTIC FRINGED BILABIAL BIPERFORATE CRIBRIFORM Fig. 900.—Varieties of hymen. (Testut after Roze.) of a double fold of mucous membrane, between the layers of which is found connective tissue, rich in elastic fibres. In sha]ie it varies widely, the commonest forms being the folciform and the annular. In the former the hymen is semi- lunar in outline, with the concavity looking forward ; in the latter a complete ring, usually widest posteriorly, surrounds the opening. Sometimes it forms a complete septum (imperforate hymen) or has many small openings (cribriform). The hymen is usually torn during the first coition, but may, when very elastic, escape rupture. After parturition there remain of it only some slight rounded elevations, the cenmnciila?m,yrtifonnef< ("little masses of flesh like myrtle-berries"), which occui)y the site of its attached border. The navicular fossa is that portion of the interlabial space, which lies behind the entrance to the vagina. It is bounded sujx'rficially by the fourchette, deeply by the superficial surface of the hymen. Erectile Organs. The erectile organs belonging to the vulva are the clitoris and the bulbs of the vagina. The Clitoris, about one inch in length, is situated at the apex of the vestibule, between the anterior extremities of the nyniphje. It is the homologue of the penis, but has no corpus spongiosum, and no urethra. The two ctu'pora cavernosa, of which it is mainlv composed, are similar in minute structure to those of the male. Diverging behind, they constitute the crura, which are attached to the ischio-pubic rami superficial to the triangular ligament, and covered hy the ischio- cavernosi (erectores clitoridis) muscles. In front the corpora cavernosa unite to form the body of the clitoris, the septum pectiniforme between them being imperfect. Their united distal extremities are surmounted hy a glans, composed of very sensitive, spongy, erectile tisstie. The clitoris has a prepuce and a frenum, both derived from the nympha:', and is also provided with a suspensory ligament. It is supplied with helicine arteries and numerous anastomosing veins.841 THE VULVA. agrees in structure with the erectile tissues described elsewlierc, and is capaljle of erection. The Bulbi Vestibuli (Fi<r. 901), or hul!)s of the vagina, are two pyriforni masses of erectile tissue, made up chiefly of a plexus of veins, enclosed in a thin, tibrous tunic. They are about an inch in length, and ai'e placed one on either side of the uro-genital space, a little above the level of the nym^^hse. Together they re2)re- sent the bulb of the corpus spongiosum in the male. They each present two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. The inner surfaces, covered by mucous membrane, are in close relation with the orifices of the urethra and vagina; the outer are covered by the bulbo-cavernosi muscles (acceleratores urin;e in the male), which here become the constrictors of the vagina. The upper borders are attached to the superficial layer of the triangular ligament, while the lower correspond with the attached borders of the nymplue. The posterior extremities are rounded, and reach to the navicular fossa. The anterior pointed extremity of each is continued forward by means of a narrower plexus, the pur^ intermedia, which communicates with its fellow beneath the clitoris. The pars intermedia is homologous to that portion of the corpus spongiosum, which lies between the bulb and the glans. It receives veins from the nymphte, and serves to connect the bulbs with the veins of the glans clitoridis and corpora cavernosa. When engorged the bulbi vestibuli narrow the vaginal orifice. Glands. In connection witli the vulva are found: (1) the vulvo-vaginal glands; (2) the urethral and peri-urethral glands. The Vulvo-vaginal Glands, or glands of Bartholin (Fig. 901), two in number, are situated one on either side of the vagina posteriorly, between the layers of the triangu- lar ligament. They are round or oval in outline, measuring about half an inch in their longest diameter. Their ducts run forward and in- ward to open into the vulval canal, one on either side, in the groove between the hymen and labia minora. They are racemose, mucous glands, homologues of the glands of Cowper in the male, and their secretion lubricates the vulval canal. The Urethral Glands, found chiefly beneath the lateral walls and floor of the urethra, vary in struct- ure from sim])le inversions of the mucous membrane to racemose glands. Their openings are arranged in rows parallel with the long axis of the canal. They secrete mucus, and corre- spond morphologically with the jirostatic glandular structure. Other glands found in the vestibule near to the urethra are designated prri-iirethral or c/landulce vesfibiilai-es mhiores, the latter to distinguish them from the glanduhe vestibidares majores or glands of Bartholin. Vessels and Nerves.—Arteries.—The superficial portions of the vulva are supplied by branches of the external and internal pudics; the deeper, by branches of the internal pudics alone. The clitoris and bulbi vestibuli receive branches Fig. 901.—Vulvii-vii.uiiial uhiiid. The broken line indicates the limits of the bulb of the vagina. (Testut.)THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 842 from the internal pudics, corresponding in name to similar branches in the male. Tlie veim for the most part end in trunks, which accompany the arteries. Those of the labium majus communicate freely with the veins of the round ligament at its distal extremity, while the bulbi vestibuli communicate with the vaginal plexuses, the dorsal vein of the clitoris, the veins of the corpf)ra cavernosa, and the ol)turator veins. The lymphatics accompany the veins and empty into the superficial inguinal nodes. Nerves.—Sympathetic nerves derived from tlie pelvic or inferior hypogastric plexus accompany the arteries. In addition sjjinal branches are supplied by the genito-crural, inferior pudendal, and internal pudic. In the nympha; and glans clitoridis they end in the tactile corpuscles of Pacini and Meissner, and on the glans alone in the so-called genital corpuscles. THE MUSCLES OF THE FEMALE PERINEUM. The muscles of the female perineum (Fig. 902) are the homologues of those in the male. Fig. 902.—Muscles of the female periiieuiii. iTestut.) The sphincter ani externus and coccygeus are identical in the two sexes. The transversi perinei and ischio-cavernosi differ from their male counterparts only in being smaller. The ischio-cavernosus is more frequently called the erector cliforidis, as it sustains the same relations to the clitoris that its enlarged masculine fac-simile does to the ])enis. In the levator ani tlie anterior portion courses at the side of the vagina, and the ]mir (if muscles jirolxdily produce some constriction of the lumen of the tube. The bulbo-cavernosi are more commonly called the sphincter vagmce or com- pressor var/ince. They are smaller than in the male, and, instead of being united by a median raphe, are separated, and include in their grasp the opening of the vagina and the bulbs of the vestibule. They are inserted into the cavernous bodies of the clitoris. The constrictor urethrae, or transversus perinei profundus, is mainly composed of unstriped muscular tissue. Its origin, as in the male, is from the ischio-pubic rami. The smaller anterior portion stretches across the subpubic arch in frontTHE 3IAMMARY GLANDS. 843 oi the urethra. The larger, posterior portion is lost mesially in the muscular wall of the vagina. THE MAMMARY GLANDS. The two mammary glands, manuiur, or breads, are accessory organs of genera- tion, their secretion, the milk, serving to sustain the infant until it is capable of deriving its nourishment from other sources. Philosophically considered, each mamma is a collection of sebaceous glands, greatly enlarged, and extending far Fig. 903.—Right breast in sagittal section, inner surface of outer segment. (Testut.) into the subcutaneous region, which here is vastly deeper than elsewhere. The j secretion of the sebaceous glands is oily, and that of their prodigious congeners is I of the same character, though in the one case the fluid is devoted to purposes of lubrication, in the other to nutritive n.ses. Each breast is approximately hemispherical, and a little below the centre of its convexity presents a mammilla (nipple, teat, dug), usually shaped like a trun- cated cone, half an inch long, pointing forward, upward, and outward, and set in the middle of a circular area of darker skin, the areola. The breast covers a nearly circular space, mostly in front of the pectoralis major, extending from the second to the sixth rib, and from the sternum to the border of the armpit. The location of the nipple is usually given as at the level of the fourth rib ; but its position is dependent upon various circumstances, such j as age, pregnancy, lactation, corpulence, firmness of tissues, race, attitude of body, I (not to mention numerous diseases), so that it becomes one of the least trust- worthy of landmarks.844 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The weight of the breast is usually above five ounces in the inactive condition. The secreting structure of the breast consists of from ten to twenty separate lobes, each of which is a compound, racemose, acinous gland. Each of these large: sebaceous GLANDS J. CONCENTRIC RIOGES SKIN OF BREAST" Fig. 904—Nipple and 'I a virgin. (Testut.) SECONDARY AREOLA glands is made up of lobules, which are colonies of alveoli, and has its own ulti- mate excretory duct, called galadophorous or lactiferous ("milk-carrying"). The ducts from all parts of the breast converge toward the nipple, and, when they reach the areola, each dilates into a sinus or ampulla, half an inch long and half as wide, which serves as a little reservoir for the milk. Beyond this the duct is reduced to a small calibre, and terminates at the summit of the nipple in a con- ti'acted orifice. The alveoli and ducts are lined with a simple epithelium, partly flattened and partly cuboidal or cylindrical. The wall of tlie ducts is composed of mixed white and yellow fibrous tissues, arranged in longi- tudinal and circular bundles. The proper gland-substance is supported on a framework of the fibrous tissues, which also form an enclosing capsule for the organ. This capsule sends processes inward between the lobes and lobules, and processes outward to the deep surface of the skin. Among the masses of glandular material are many nodules of adipose tissue, which are of greatest size near the convex surface, though some con- siderable collections are found at the flat, hind surface of the gland. No fat, however, apjjeafs beneath the nipple and areola. The mammilla, is composed of skin, pecu- liarly modified, and containing the terminal portion of the milk-ducts. It is dark, wrinkled, be.set with papilla?, which are extremely sensi- tive, but has no sweat-glands or hairs. It is very vascular, and among the ves- sels are many fibres of mistriped muscular tissue—an arrangement which gives it the properties of erectile tissue, so that under the stimulus of contact or even emotion, it may swell and become rigid. Its summit presents the orifices of the many lactiferous ducts. The areola resembles tlie uijiple in color and in structure, being pigmented and somewhat erectile. In addition it is dotted over with little, roundish pro- jections, due to large, .'Sebaceous glands in the skin, in connection with each of which is a delicate, minute hair. Modifications.—In women who have not become pregnant the glandular tissue Fig. 905.—Nipple and areolae of a preg- nant woman. (Testut.)845 THE MAMMARY GLANDS. is but slightly developed (even tlmufrli the breast may be plump and firm), and the nipple and areola are pink. But as early as the second month of pregnancy the color of these parts deepens, and may become dark brown, and the secreting structure begins to develop. A seconfJary areola, much fainter than the primary, may be observed encircling it. The breasts become very large and heavy during the period of nursing, but shrink when lactation is completed, and simultaneously the added pigment mostly disaj^jDears from the areola and nipple ; but the delicate rosv hue of the virgin state is never restored. After the menopause the gland shrivels into a thin disc, incapable of function ; but this diminution may not be outwardly manifest in the corpulent on account of the great accumulation of fat. During menstruation the breasts may swell, owing to sympathetic congestion. In some women the nipple does not project beyond the surface of the breast, and in certain cases it is even retracted, a dimple marking its situation. //; tlte male the mammary gland is rudimentary and minute. The nipple is small, and the areola presents a growth of rather strong hairs. Verv rarely women have supernumerarii mamina^, thus imitating many of the lower animals. One case is recorded in which a woman had eight supplementary breasts, in addition to the usual pair. On the other hand there may be entire failure of development beyond the rudimentary condition. Very phenomenally the male breast ceases to be a mere rudiment, and becomes capable of furnishing milk. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the mamma are branches of the axillary, internal mammary, and intercostals. The veins correspond. The lyrnjjha.tics run to the axillary nodes (primarily to the pectoral group, secondarily to the others) and to the sternal. The nerves are chieHy intercostal.847 RELATIONAL ANATOMY. By F. H. GERRISH. IN the chapters on Systematic Anatomy much has been pi'esented concerning; the relations existing between the parts and organs described. It wouhl doubtless be useful to have all of these statements gathered into a single section, but the prescribed limits of this work forbid such a course. The purpose of this chapter is to introduce certain matters which did not conveniently fall into line with any of the topics of Systematic Anatomy, to emphasize some of the most important points wliich liuve previously been made, and to show by methods, hitherto little employed, facts of interest and value concerning the structure of the body. The chapter will be divided into three parts, each of which will be devoted to a different method of studying Relational Anatomy. In the first part will be presented a series of plane sections of the trunk and limbs ; in the second part, reproductions of photographs of the surface; and in the third part, skiagraphs of every portion of the body, whose osseous structure can be profitabl_y studied by the aid of the so-called A'-rays. However full maybe the descriptions in such a chapter, its chief and essential value will always reside in the pictures ; and those that are here given are so clear, and tell their own story so distinctly, tliat oidy a few words of introduction for each are needed, and the descriptive text can, therefore, be reduced to a minimum. It is recommended that each of these pictures be studied in connection with everything else in the book which bears upon tlie subjects involved. For examjile, in considering the region of the forearm, the systematic anatomy of the bones, muscles, fascise, arteries, veins, lymphatics, and nerves of the part should be studied anew ; next, the plane section should be examined with care, and the location of every organ fixed in mind ; then the various photogra])hs of the surface of the part should receive attention ; and, finally, the corresponding skiagraphs should be regarded. By the combination of all these methods the student will be able to obtain all of the anatomical information of the locality that a text-book can afford. I. PLANE SECTIONS. In each of these pictures the upper surface of the lower segment resulting from the section is shown—in other words, the upper segment has been removed, and we look down upon the specimen. In the ease of the sections of the limbs we may profitably imagine them to be the stumps of amputations of the opposite limbs at the same level—that is, they present such a view as would be given by the cut surface of the proximal part on the other side. In the representations of sections of the trunk much lack of bilateral svm- metry will be found, not only as concerns details, but also in the outlines of the figure. This is due to several causes. Perfect symmetry of contour on the opposite sides is practically unknown ; the corresponding parts are rarely exactlyRELATIONAL ANATOMY. 848849 PLANE SECTIONS. 54850 BELA TIONAL ANA TOiVV.PLANE SECTIONS. 851853 PLANE SECTIONS.854 BEL A TIONA L A NA TOM Y. EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY EXTERNAL ILIAC VEIN ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE TENSOR VAGIN/E FEMORIS SCIATIC NERVE INFERIOR GLUTEAL ARTERY' INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY Fig. 912.—Horizontal section three inches below the sacral promontory. (Testut.) The unlabelled parts in front of and at the right of the bladder are coils of small intestine. Fig. 913.-Horizontal section at middle of right arm-upper surface of lower segnient. B. \ .. basilic -s^in CEPH. v., cephalic vein : I. C. N., internal cutaneous nerve; I. P. A., inferior profunda artery • JJ-mus- culo-cutaneous nerve ; M. N., median nerve; M. S. N., musculo-spiral nerve ■. S. P. A., superior profunda artery U. N., ulnar nerve. (After Braune.)PLANE SECTIOm. 855 mated ; and, finally, it is almost impossible to carry the saw with absolute pre- cision through all parts of the plane intended. The subjects from Avhich these sections were taken were particularly muscular young men, and the appearances differ considerably from those observed in poorly developed or emaciatecl people. This is very marked in the case of the shoulders, whose high appearance is at least partly due to the very pronounced muscularity. In all of these drawings conventionalized shading is employed for the sake of clearness, and thus a somewhat diagrammatic etfect is produced. But the pose is to show relations, and not composition. The serous and synovial (virtual) cavities are represented by heavy black lines. Only by some such exaggerated method can they be made distinct in plane sections. Vessels and other tubes, when cut obliquely, present peculiar outlines ; and these are more marked the more nearly the section is in. line with the long axis of the cylinder. In the cut surfaces of many muscles will be seen tendons embedded in their substance. This fact is referred to in the general considerations concerning myology, but was purposely omitted from the description of the individual muscles. In some of the pictures which have substantially bilateral symmetry the parts are labelled on one side only. The important jKirts are, as a rule, labelled ; but in some cases this method was impracticable, and in these the legend will direct attention to the unlabelled objects.It EL A TIOXA L A XA TO JIT. Fig. aio.-Transverse section of the thigh below the trochanter minor, i After Braune.iSURFACE AyATOMY. 857 Fig. 916 —Transverse section at the middle of the leg. Lifter Braune.) In front of the interosseous metn- brane are the anterior tibial vessels and ner\-e; in front of the soleus, the posterior tibial vessels and nerve; and close to the fibula, the peroneal vessels. II. SURFACE ANATOMY. The subject of tlie pliotoijraph.-, of wliicli the series of picture* in thi.« section are reproductions, wa.s a younp;- athlete of well-lialanced doveloj^nient. It would be easy to procure representations of a man with much larger muscle.*, but they would be less useful in the illustration of normal anatomy. The main purpose of these engravings is to show the relations of structures, especially muscles, to the surface. The most of them are accompanied by keys, which more than sup- ply the place of verbal description ; in the remainder the principal features are sufficiently apparent Mithout explanation other than occurs in the legend. Every student is earnestly advised to study surface anatomy upon the living model. Each can use his chum for this juirpose, if he will reeijiroeate such favors as he receives ; and many things he can learn from his own person. ])articularly M'ell in front of a large mirror. He should carry his studies in this direction much further than is attempted in this series of pictures, and in this effort he will derive all the help that he needs from the numerous cuts which embelli:-h the pages devoted to descriptive anatomy.SURFACE ANATOMY. 859860 BEL A TIONA L A NA TOMY.861 SURFACE ANATOMY.862 BEL A TIONAL ANA T03IY.SURFA CE ANA TOMY. 863BEL A TIONA L ANA TOMY. 864 Fig. 929.—Key to Fig. 928. Fig. 928.—The right lower limb, rear view.SURFACE ANATOMY. 865Fig. 933.-Key to Fig. 932. Fig. 932.—The right lower limb, internal lateral view.SURF A CE A NA TO MY. 867 Fig.'.184.—Cnmparison cif axillae with the arm abducted and with tlie arm vertical. The latter attitude is seen to flatten and nearly obliterate the pit.869 SURFACE ANA TO MY. Fig. 937.—This Iikuit ami the next one are de- signed to sliow the eapacitv ol the body for rotaticjn. The feet point in one direetion, the faee exactly oii- posite. This was accomplished without previous practice. Fig. 938.—To lie compared with Fig. 937. The thighs and feet are held pointing away from the spectator, and the sitter has turned to face the camera as s(i\iarelv as possible. If the effect obtained by this method be subtracted from that in Fig. 937, the amount of rotation below the movable vertebrae will be ascertained.RELATIONAL ANATOMY. 870 Fig. 939. (Extru-seriul.)—The relations of the principal fissures and of the lower borders of the cerebral liemisphere to the surface of the skull. The fissures and borders are not labelled, as the Sylvian, central, and parieto-occipital fissures cannot be mistaken. The inferior line does not show the lowest level reached by the temporal and occipital lobes, but the lowest parts of them that come close to the skull.871 N0B3IA L &'A'IA GBA PHS. III. NORMAL SKIAGRAPHS. A little more than three years ago it was discovered that certain rays of light have the power of passing tliroiigli substances which to ordinary rays are impene- trable. On account of their undetermined character they were called originally by the name of the letter which in algebraic formnlaj indicates the unknown ; and the title X-rai/s is still as well deserved as in tlie beginning. They are also called, from their discoverer, Rdntgcn rays. The degrees of perviousuess to these rays presented by ditf'erent substances vary widely. Wood offers but little obstruction to their passage, glass cuts them off. Of the tissues of the body those containing lime salts stop the rays most completely ; cartilage permits their passage with great readiness ; and the other textures stand at various points between these extremes. The result is, that if a part of the body be suital)ly placed between an ap]>aratus \vhich generates these rays and a properly sensitized plate, shadows of the intervening structures which interfere with the rays will be cast upon the plate, and fixed there with different degrees of intensity. The plate is a negative from which photographic prints can be made, and these are called skiagraphis ("shadow-writings"). That this wonderful discovery could be turned to great advantage in surgery was immediately perceived, and its usefulness in the diagnosis of fractures and dislocations, and in the detection of certain foreign botiies, especially those which are metallic, in the tissues or cavities, has been abundantly demonstrated. In order, however, to appreciate the existence and degree of the abnormal it is important to become familiar with the normal. Consequently, there are here presented skiagraphs of different portions of the body, pictures from more than one point of view being given wherever it seemed necessary to elucidate relational anatomy by this novel means. No skiagraj^h of the head is included, as it has not thus far been found practicable to determine anything useful anatomically from those Avhich have been made. In studying skiagraphs several considerations should be borne in mind, among which the following arc ])rominent : A more dense portion of a given tissue throws a deeper shadow than a less dense portion of the same. Thus, the expanded extremities of bones, largely composed of cancellated tissue, show lighter than the shafts, Avhere the tissue is compact. The thickness of the part influences the depth of the shadow. Thus, in a long bone the compact structure of the shaft gives a deeper shade at the sides than in the centre, not because the tissue is denser, but because, from a given pf)int, the ravs pass through a greater amount of it. (See the metacarpal bones in Fig. 944.)' An accumulation of tissue of the same or different kinds deepens the shadow. (See the condylar region in Fig. 943.) The overlapping of one part by another causes a deepening of the shadow. (See the head of the radius and the coronoid ]>rocess of the ulna in Fig. 943.) As cartilage gives a ready passage to the rays, the ends of bones in movable joints seem separated by unoccupied spaces, except when a convexity of one bone is received into a concavity of another of sufficient depth to produce a])parent continuity of osseous tissue ; and epiphyses, not yet united to their diaphyses, are held off from them by obvious gaps. The outline of a shadow does not necessarily represent the true size or shape of certain parts. For example, the outlines of the skiagraph of the heart, which is in constant active motion, and of the liver, ndiich is in incessant passive motion, include greater areas than do the real shadows at any one moment of time. When such parts can be skiagraphed instantaneously, this objection will be removed.874 RELATIONAL AN A TO 31Y. Pig. 9-12.—The elljow-joint and adjacent parts, ventro-dorsal view. From a man of 28 years.Fig. 943.—The arm and forearm, side view. From a man of 28 years. Tlie forearm is in semipronation. Observe the dense sliadows where the head of the radius and ooronoid process of the ulna overlap, and where the condyles are must prominent.NORMAL SKI A GRAPHS. 877 Fig. 945.—The lower part of the trunk ami the upper part nf the thi.arhs. I'rom a boy of 15 yeans, ( iljserve the saeral foramina and interverteljral spaces. The hip-bones show with great distinctness. The penis is turned to one side.RELA TIOXA L A XA TOM J 878 Fig. 9-ii..—Ijju ijii^-juiiit .iiKi .-ui;-uijii;ij^ ]..ins. Fr.,m ihc same skiasrraph as Fiji. The interference of overlapping parts of bone, the thinness of the ilium in the fossa, and"the ajjparent deficiency between the caput femoris and the acetabulum deserve attention.Tig. 947.—The knee, ventro-durial view. From a man of 28 years. The libiu and nbuia overlap.I'lG. ",HS.—The knee, side view. From a man of 28 years. Observe that the patella touches the femur above, but seems to stand away from it below. Tire ligamentum patellae makes a slight appearance.881 NORMAL SKIAGRAPHS. Fig. 949.—The foot in full extension, dorso-plantar view. From a man of 21 years. The first and fifth toes are deformed by the wearing of pointed slioes. Tlie deep shadow about the ankle-joint is due to the great thickness of the bony mass. 5fi882 RELA TIOXA L A NA TO MY. Fig. 950.—The foot, side view, p'rom the same man as Fig. 9-19. Every bone is more or less overlapped by some other.883 PRACTICAL ANATOMY. By F. H. GERRISH. IT is the purpose of this final chapter to give dirt'ctions concerning the conduct of dissections. Preparatory Study.—There is but little profit in attempting a dissection until one has become familiar with the appearance of the parts involved, and has learned the chief facts concerning their structure. This acquaintance should be gained by careful study of their descriptive anatomy, and by frequent inspection and handling of well-dissected parts, prepared for this very purpose of pre- liminary drill. Without such equipment it is impossible to follow fully the admirable precept of Oliver Wendell Holmes—Let the eye go before the hand, and the mind before the eye." Cooperation in Work.—The men who are dissecting on the same subject should work harmoniously. A spirit of accommodation is essential, for it is necessary that the attitude of a part and even of the whole cadaver should be changed at times, and occasionally this circumstance will oblige a student to alter his order of work temporarily, or even to suspend it altogether for a while. Those whose parts of the subject have a structural continuity or adjacency will sometimes work to best advantage at different hours. The Taking of Pains.—All work should be done with care and deliberation. Patience and intelligence are essential to good results. Hurry is not only waste- ful, but ineffective. The number of days which should be spent upon a stated part is not here prescribed, because competent men work with different degrees of speed. The task is soon enough done, when it is well enough done. Cleaning Organs.—" The art of dissection consists in the complete removal of this [areolar] tissue from around the other structures, so as to expose the parts enwraj^ped therein " (Macalister). When the meshes of areolar tissue are occu- pied by cells of fat, dissection is much more difficult, and the result is less satis- factory. Consequently, when a choice is jiossible, a subject should be selected which is lean. Every part as it comes to view should be cleaned thoroughly—that is, freed from enveloping areolar tis.sue. In doing this, the cuts of the knife should l^e parallel with the fibres of the part, if it be muscle, nerve, or fascia ; in the direction of its long axis, if it be a vessel. The vessels and nerves should be cleaned from large trunks to small. Finish the cleaning of one fasciculus or vessel before attempting another. In dissecting fine vessels and nerves, the point of the scalpel may be used to advantage ; but in the dissection of muscles it is ordinarily advisable to employ the belly of the blade, making long, sweeping cuts. In this way greater smooth- ness of dis.section is obtained. Whatever the part, it should be made tense before dissection. In the case of muscles the requisite tension may be gained by position ; but in the case of a muscle whose fibres run in various directions, it is necessary to place the part in a diflFerent attitude for each of them. Blocks of wood, variously adjusted betweenPRACTICAL ANATOMY. 884 the thorax or alidomen and tlie table, assist greatly in this matter. Nerves may be made taut hy the use t)f the hooks and chains. Further Directions.—The under surface of a muscle should always be examined carefully to observe the arteries, veins, nerves, and deep attachments. Every tendon should be followed to its attachment. In cutting through a muscle in order to remove or reflect it, care must be taken not to injure a subjacent part. If a muscle is to be reflected, it should, as a rule, be divided in the middle. When a group of muscles is to be reflected, each should be cut at a different level from the others, as replacement can thus be accomplished more readily and accurately. Handle parts delicately. Rough manipulation hurts them, especially the bellies of muscles. Forceps tear muscular fibres, and leave a ragged surface ; fingers injure them very little, and should always be used, when practicable. Do not finally remove any part until obliged to do so in order to reach under- lying structures. By keeping parts attached a long time, opportunity is afforded for many repeated examinations. Prevention of Drying.—Every part should be kept a little moist (but not soaked) with some antiseptic liquid. One can learn something, perhaps a good deal, from a decaying organ ; nothing from a part which has been allowed to dry. One of the best preparations for this purpose is composed as follows : Alcohol 30 per cent., glvcerine 10, carbolic acid 2, and water 68. Clearing up after Work.—After the day's dissecting is done, the dissected organs should be slightly moistened with the above fluid, and adjusted as nearly as possible in their natural relations; the edges of the skin should be fastened with a continuous suture ; and the whole wrapped in cotton cloth which has been wetted with the same solution. Finally, it is desirable that the entire subject should be covered with a sheet of rubber cloth. If care is taken along these lines, a dissection may be continued a number of weeks without discomfort or offence. Tiie skin of a part should be saved until the dissection is completed, because it is the best covering. The original incisions should be so made as to leave large flaps of skin, as these are more easily managed. Disposal of Waste.—As regards the disposal of waste materials : all fluids from the subject should be turned into the waste-pipe connected with the sewer; small fragments should be deposited upon a piece of paper, and the collection from each day's work placed in a box provided for the purpose, which should also receive the large masses, as they are removed ; and the box should be buried at the close of the dissecting season, or as soon as it is filled, if that be earlier. Care of the Hands.—Chaps or abrasions on the hands of the dissector should be protected by small bits of court-plaster, over and around which a coating of flexible collodion is applied. When the hands are to be brought exten- sively in contact with the viscera, it is well to anoint them with vaseline or some other oil. Treatment of a Dissection Wound.—If a wound is received from a dissecting instrument or a spicule of bone, it should be encouraged to bleed by holding it in the stream from the hot water faucet, and then sucking it vigorously, so that the poison may be removed before it has a chance to be absorbed. The danger of infection from the dissection material usually provided in our schools is very small, if reasonable precautions are observed. Cleanliness of Clothing.—In preparation for dissection the student should either clothe himself in an old suit, which thereafter will be used for no other purpose, or else cover his ordinary raiment with a dissecting gown, which reaches nearly to his feet and is gathered in at the wrists. If consideration for his own cleanliness and comfort is not sufficient to suggest some such procedure, a decent regard for the rights of others will forbid his mingling with people of commonPR A CTICA L ANA TOM Y. 885 sensitiveness with a coat which is in any degree contaniinated by contact with dissecting material, however well preserved the latter may be. Avoidance of Publicity.—The beginner in practical anatomy is usually so impressed witli the novelty and interest of his work that he talks about it when among n(jn-medical people, forgetting that to many of them the mention of such topics is oifensive. In the interest of his own standing and of the repute of the profession he would tar Ijetter maintain the strictest reticence in all such matters. Dissect Often!—Finally, in way of general advice, the student is counselled to lose no opportunity to dissect, bearing in mind that the most accomplished anato- mists never consider themselves so perfect in their knowledge that they cannot learn something by another dissection. Implements Needed.—The following instruments the student should provide himself with : a birgc scalpel, a small scalpel, both with the cutting edge markedly convex, a cartilage knife, a pair of scissors, best curved on the flat, a dissecting forceps, a tenaculum, a pair of hooks connected by a chain, a grooved director, a small blow-pipe, and a foot of rubber-tubing to fit onto the large end, and a large straight needle. The chisel, saw, and hammer, which he will need at times, are a part of the furnishings of the dissecting-room. Additionally he should procure some coarse thread for sewing the skin over the dissection at the close of the day ; a jiint of the preservative mentioned elsewhere in these directions ; a piece of cotton cloth, large enough to enwrap his part of the subject; an ounce of vaseline for his hands ; and a good hone and strop for sharpening his knives— the strop never to be employed for other instruments after having been used for dissecting scalpels. He would do well to have his own cake of soap, nail-brush, and towels, for manifest reasons. The instruments, especially those for cutting, should be of excellent quality. There is no economy in buying inferior tools. After the day's dissecting is done, every instrument which has been used should be scrupulously cleansed, dried, and made ready for the next session. The hands should be washed with hot water and soap, particular attention being bestowed upon the nails. DIVISION OF THE CADAVER. The number of parts into which the body is divided for dissection purposes varies greatly in different schools; but the method of presentation here adoj^ted will readily lend itself to any division which may be preferred. The organs in a given region are mentioned in the order in which they are encountered in dissecting. The name of each is followed by a numeral which refers to the page of this book upon which it is described, with the exception that a few of the references direct attention to pictures, which are especially ser- viceable in dissecting, and from which the verbal descriptions can readily be turned to. Many parts are entered more than once in the enumerations, because they occur in two or more regions. The small branches of arteries are not generally given, as they will naturally attract attention in connection with the trunks from which they spring. The same omission is commonly made in the case of veins which are companion to artei'ies of the same name. Reference to a viscus is intended to include its jiarts, as ducts, vessels, etc. It is assumed that the dissection is done under the personal supervision of a competent demonstrator, who will prescribe the order in which parts are to be taken, and will give all necessary instructions as to the best method of making primary incisions, reflecting and removing parts, and displaying whatever requires demonstration—points upon which equally competent teachers differ—and, there- fore, specific directions on such matters are not here given.PRACTICAL ANATOMY. 886 THE THORAX AND UPPER LIMB. Platysma, 337. C'utaneous nerves, 605, 619, 621. Mammary gland, 843. Cephalic vein, 470. Acromiothoracic artery, 416. Deep fascia, 353, 354. Pectoralis major, 260. Axillary space, 415. Lymph-nodes, 492. Axillary vein, 470. Axillary artery, 412. Brachial plexus, 606. Pectoralis minor, 256. Costocoracoid membrane, 354. Subclavius, 257. Serratiis magnus, 256. Posterior thoracic nerve, 607. Intercosto-humeral nerve, 620. Intercostales externi, 336. Intercostales interni, 336. Intercostal nerves, 619. Intercostal arteries, 425. Internal mammary artery, 409. Superior epigastric artery, 410. Musculophrenic artery, 409. Sternal lymph-nodes, 495. Triangularis sterni, 336. Thoracic Cavity. Pleura, 765. Anterior mediastinal lymph-nodes, 495. Lungs, 762. Roots of lungs, 763. Phrenic nerve, 605. Pericardium, 373. Thymus, 797. Brachio-cephalic veins, 457. Superior vena cava, 456. Inferior vena cava, 474. Heart, 365. Coronary arteries, 386. Cardiac veins, 455. Cardiac nerves, 595, 643, 644. Pulmonary artery, 379. Aorta, 383. Brachio-cephalic artery, 386. Left common carotid artery, 389. Left subclavian artery, 404. Trachea, 757. Bronchi, 758. Pneumogastric nerves, 592. Recurrent laryngeal nerves, 594. Gullet, 712. Branches of descending aorta, 425. Thoracic duct, 487. Sujjerior mediastinal lymph-nodes, 495. Gangliated cord of the sympathetic, 642. Azygos veins, 471. Posterior mediastinal lymph-nodes, 495. Diaphragma, 334. Costo-vertebral articulations, 211. Front of the Arm. Cutaneous nerves, 617. Superficial veins in arm and at bend of elbow, 468. Epicondylar lymph-node, 493. Deep fascia, 355. External and internal intermuscular septa, 355. Brachial artery, 415. Vena3 comites of brachial artery, 470. Internal cutaneous nerves, 612. Median nerve, 608. Ulnar nerve, 612. Musculo-cutaneous nerve, 608. Biceps, 263. Coracobrachialis, 260. Brachial is, 264. Front of the Forearm. Superficial veins, 469. Cutaneous nerves, 617, 618. Deep fascia, 355. Intermuscular septa, 356. Pronator teres, 267. Flexor carpi radialis, 269. Palmaris longus, 269. Flexor carpi ulnaris, 269. Radial artery, 421. Flexor sublimis digitorum, 273. Radial and posterior interosseous nerves, 616. Ulnar artery, 417. Interosseous arteries, 418. Median nerve, 608. Flexor profundus digitorum, 274. Flexor longus jxjllicis, 282. Pronator quadratus, 267. The Palm. Palmaris brevis, 285. Cutaneous nerves, 617, 618. Anterior aimular ligament, 366. Palmar fascia, 356. Synovial sheaths of tendons, 357. Superficial palmar arch, 420. Ulnar nerve, 612.PR A OTIC A L A XA TO M Y. 887 Median nerve, 608. Abductor poUieis, 284. Flexor ossis mctaearpi ]ioIlieis, 281. Flexor brevis pollicis, 2S2. Adductor pollicis, 284. Abductor minimi digiti, 279. Flexor brevis minimi digiti, 275. Flexor ossis raetacarpi minimi digiti, 275. Lumbricalcfi, 276. Deep palmar arch, 422. Interossei palmares, 280. Back of Thorax and Upper Limb. Deep fascia, 354. Trapezius, 253. Latissimus, 261. Omohyoideus, 337. Rhomboideus minor, 255. Rhomboideus major, 255. Deltoideus, 258. Circumflex arteries, 415. Circumflex nerve, 613. Teres major, 261. Suprasjjinatus, 260. Infraspinatus, 261. Teres minor, 261. Subscapularis, 263. Suprascapular artery, 410. Suprascapular nerve, 607. Dorsalis scapulae artery, 415. Back of the Arm. Deep fascia, 355. Cutaneous nerves, 617, 618. Triceps, 265. THE ABDOMEN The Abdomen. Superficial fascia—two layers, 349. Lymph-nodes in groin, 493. Cutaneous nerves : Anterior cutaneous, 621. Lateral cutaneous, 621. Ilio-hypogastric, 623. Ilio-ingulnal, 624. Last thoracic, 621. Snperficial pudic arteries, 443. Superficial epigastric artery, 443. Superficial circumflex iliac arteiy, 443. Obliquus externus, 332. Linea alba, 331. External abdominal ring, 332. Inguinal ligament, 332. Gimbernat's ligament, 332. Museulospiral nerve, 614. Sujierior profunda arter}'', 416. Ulnar nerve, 612. Anastomotica magna and anastomoses aroiuid ell)o\v, 416. Back of the Forearm. Cutaneous nerves, 617, 618. Deep fascia, 355. Anconeus, 266. Brachioradialis, 265. Extensor carpi radialis longus, 269. Extensor carpi radialis brevis, 270. Extensor communis digitorum, 277. Extensor minimi digiti, 278. Extensor carpi ulnaris, 270. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, 282. Extensor brevis pollicis, 282. Extensor longus pollicis, 282. Extensor indicis, 278. Posterior interosseous artery, 418. Posterior interosseous nerve, 616. Supinator, 268. Back of the Hand. Radial artery, 422. Posterior annular ligament, 356. Digital extensors, tendons, 276. Posterior intenjsseous nerve, 616. Interossei dorsales, 278. The articulations of the upper limb : Sterno-clavicular joint, 216. Scapulo-clavicular joint, 217. Shoulder joint, 218. Elbow joint, 221. Wrist joint, 224. Joints in the hand, 225-227. AND LOWER LIMB. ()l)liquus internus, 332. Cremaster, 333. Nerves in abdominal wall : Intercostals—lower six, 619. Last thoracic, 621. Ilio-hypogastric, 623. Ilio-inguinal, 624. Transversalis, 333. Rectus abdominis, 331. Pyramidalis, 332. L'ineaalba, 331. Lumbar fascia, 358. Transversalis fascia, 359. Internal abdominal ring, 360. Objects in anterior abdominal wall below umbilicus, 752. Deep epigastric artery, 438.888 PE A CTICAL A NA TOM Y. Deep circumflex iliac artery, 439. Superior epigastric artery, 410. Musculo-phrenic artery, 409. Scrotuin, 809. Spermatic cord, 812. Testicles, 801. Penis, 812. Abdominal Cavity. Abdomen Proper. Liver, 738. Spleen, 793. Stomach, 715. Gullet, 712. Jejuno-ileum, 723. Cfecum, 727. Colon, 728. Peritoneum, 748. Foramen of Winslow, 751. Mesentery proper, 749. Lymph-nodes of mesentery, 497. Su])erior mesenteric artery, 429. Inferior mesenteric artery, 430. Aortic plexus of nerves, 647. Branches of abdominal aorta, 427. Portal vein, 477. Duodenum, 721. Pancreas, 736. Pneumogastric nerves, 592. Solar jjlexus, 649. Lumbar lymph-nodes, 497. Kidney, 777. Suprarenal capsules, 798. Ureters, 784. Diaphragma, 334. Abdominal aorta, 426. Receptaculum chyli, 487. Inferior vena cava, 474. Ganglia of sympathetic, 646. Common iliac vessels, 432, 476. External iliac vessels, 438, 477. External iliac lymph-nodes, 497. Iliac fascia, 360. Psoas magnus, 290. Iliacus, 291. Quadratus lumborum, 334. Psoas parvus, 323. Lumbar plexus, 622. Last thoracic nerve, 621. Ilio-liypogastric nerve, 623. Ilio-inguinal nerve, 624. Genito-crural nerve, 624. External cutaneous nerve, 624. Anterior crural nerve, 624. The Pelvic Cavity of the Male Hypogastric plexus, 647. Pelvic fascia, 360. Bladder, 785. Ureters, 784. Prostate, 818. Rectum, 732. Seminal vesicles, 808. Vasa deferentia, 807. Internal iliac artery, 433. Oljturator artery, 434. Internal pudic artery, 435. Sciatic artery, 436. Uio-lumbar artery, 437. Gluteal artery, 437. Lateral sacral artery, 437. Internal iliac lymph-nodes, 497. Superior liemorrhoidal artery, 431. Middle saci-al artery, 432. Sacral plexus, 628. Sacral lymph-nodes, 497. Gangliated cord of sympathetic, 648. Coccygeal gland, 800. Obturator internus, 299. Pyriformis, 298. Deep inguinal lym])li-nodes, 494. Articulations of pelvis, 227. The Pelvic Cavity of the Female. (Organs not in male pelvis.) Uterus, 829. Broad ligaments, 832. Ovaries, 822. Parovaria, 835. Fallopian tubes, 827. Round ligaments, 832. Urethra, 788. Uterine artery, 434. Vaginal artery, 434. Ovarian artery, 431. The Male Perineum. Superficial fascia, 361. Sphincter ani externus, 821. Superficial perineal artery, 436. Transverse perineal artery, 436. Superficial perineal nerves, 631. Inferior pudendal nerve, 630. Ischio-rectal fossa, 361. Transversus perinei, 821. Central point of perineum, 820. Bulbo-cavernosus, 821. Ischio-cavernosus, 821. Bulb of corpus spongiosum, 814. Crura penis, 813.889 PRACTICAL ANATOMY. Vastus inter 1U18, 307. Vastus intermedins, 307. Musculus articularis genu, 308. Liganientum patellje, S03. Prepatellar bursa, 155. Inner Side of the Thigh. Internal pudic artery, 435. Pndic nerve, 631. Inferior hemorrhoidal artery, 436. Inferior hemorrhoidal nerve, 631. Triangular ligament, 361. Membranous urethra, 789. Constrictor urethne, 822. Bnlbo-urethral glands, 820. Levator ani, 821. Coccygeus, 821. Anal canal, 734. Seminal vesicles, 808. Prostate gland, 818. The Female Perineum. Vulva, 837. Vagina, 835. Cervix uteri, 830. Bulbs of vestibule, 841. Vulvo-vaginal glands, 841. Front of the Thigh. Superficial epigastric artery, 443. Superficial external pudic artery, 443. Superficial circumflex iliac artery, 443. Lymph-nodes, 493. Internal saphenous vein, 481. Cutaneous nerves : Ilio-inguinal, 624. Genito-crural, 624. Long saphenous, 625. External cutaneous, 624. Middle cutaneous, 624. Internal cutaneous, 625. Fascia lata, 362. Ilio-tibial band, 362. Intermuscular septa, 362. Saphenous opening, 362. Inguinal ligament, 332. Girabernat's ligament, 332, Femoral canal, 362. Femoral sheath, 359. Scarpa's triangle, 440. Femoral artery, 439. Profunda artery, 443. Deep external pudic artery, 443. Sartorius, 301. Adductor (Hunter's) canal, 440. Anastomotica magna artery, 443. Femoral vein, 482. Anterior crural nerve, 624. External circumflex artery, 443. Tensor vaginae femoris, 292. Rectus femoris, 304. Vastus externus, 307. Adductor longus, 294. Profunda femoris artery, 443. Perforating arteries, 443. Pectineus, 297. Internal circumflex artery, 443. Adductojr brevis, 297. Gracilis, 297. Adductor magnus, 294. Obturator externus, 298. Obturator nerve, 626. Obturator artery, 434. Psoas magnus, 290. Iliacus, 291. Front of the Leg and Dorsum of the Foot. Superficial veins, 481. Cutaneous nerves : External popliteal, 636. External saphenous, 633. Internal saphenous, 625. Musculo-cutaneous, 637. Anterior tibial, 637. Deep fascia, 362. Anterior annular ligament, 363. Internal annular ligament, 363. Intermuscular septa, 363. Tibialis anterior, 308. Extensor longus digitorum, 319. Extensor proprius hallucis, 319. Peroneus tertius, 308. Anterior tibial artery, 450. Malleolar arteries, 452. Dorsalis pedis artery, 452. Tarsal arteries, 452. Metatarsal arteries, 453. Intei'ossei dorsales, 322. Peroneal artery, 447. Extensor brevis digitorum, 319. Anterior tibial nerve, 637. Outer Side of the Leg. External annular ligament, 363. Peroneus longus, 316. Peroneus brevis, 316. Peroneal artery, 447. External ])opliteal nerve, 636. Musculo-cutaneous nerve, 637.890 PRACTICAL ANAT03IY. Back of the Hip. Cutaneous nerves : Sacral, 628. Limibar, 622. Ilio-hypogastric, 623. Last thoracic, 621. External cutaneous of thigh, 624. Small sciatic, 629. Fascia lata, 362. Gluteus maximus, 291. Small sciatic nerve, 629. Great sciatic nerve, 631. Internal pudic artery, 435. Internal pudic nerve, 631. Pyriformis, 298. Sciatic artery, 436. Obturator internus and gemelli, 298- 301. Quadratus femoris, 298. Obturator externus, 298. Internal circumflex artery, 443. Gluteus medius, 292. Gluteal artery, 437. Superior gluteal nerve, 629. Gluteus minimus, 292. Back of the Thigh. Cutaneous nerves, 640. Deep fascia, 362. Biceps flexor cruris, 301. Semitendinosus, 301. Semimembranosus, 301. Great sciatic nerve, 631. Perforating arteries, 443. External saphenous vein, 481. Small sciatic nerve, 629. Popliteal space, 444. Internal popliteal nerve, 632. External popliteal nerve, 636. Popliteal artery, 443. Popliteal vein, 482. Popliteal lymph-nodes, 494. Back of the Leg. Superficial veins, 481. Cutaneous nerves, 640. Deep fascia, 363. THE HEAD Cranial Region. In the superficial fascia : Attollens aurem, 678. Attrahens aurem, 679. Retrahens aurem, 679. Supratrochlear nerve, 576. Supraorbital nerve, 576. Intermuscular septa, 363. External annular ligament, 363. Internal annular ligament, 363. Gastrocnemius, 309. Plantaris, 314. Soleus, 313. Tendo-calcaneus, 314. Popliteal artery, 443. Posterior tibial artery, 446. External popliteal nerve, 636. Posterior tibial nerve, 633. Deep transverse fascia, 363. Popliteus, 302. Flexor longus hallucis, 316. Flexor longus digitorum, 317. Tibialis posterior, 308. Peroneal artery, 447. The Sole. Internal calcaneal nerve, 634. Plantar fascia, 364. Abductor hallucis, 321. Flexor brevis digitorum, 317. Abductor minimi digiti, 321. Internal ]ilantar nerve, 634. Internal plantar artery, 449. External plantar artery, 449. External plantar nerve, 635. Flexor tendons, 318. Accessorius, 317. Lumbricales, 318. Flexor brevis hallucis, 317. Adductor obliquus hallucis, 322. Adductor transversus hallucis, 322. Flexor brevis minimi digiti, 317. Plantar arch, 449. Dorsalis pedis,plantar digital branch,453. Interossei plantares, 323. Peroneus longus tendon, 318. Articulations of lower limb : Hip joint, 230. Knee joint, 233. Ankle joint, 239. Tarsal joints, 240. Tarso-metatarsal joints, 243. Metatarso-phalangeal joints, 244. Phalangeal joints, 244. AND NECK. Facial nerve, temporal branches, 588. Orbital nerve, 578. Auriculo-temporal nerve, 582. Posterior auricular nerve, 587. Great auricular nerve, mastoid branch, 604. Small occipital, 604.PRACTICAL ANAT03IY. 891 Great occipital nerve, 602. Epicranial aponeurosis, 348. Occipitalis, 348, Frontalis, 348. Temporal fascia, 350. Inside of the Cranium. Encephalon (to be hardened for subse- quent study), 509. Dura, 558. Venous sinuses of dura, 463. Cranial nerves at foramina of exit, 665. Internal carotid artery, 401. Meningeal arteries, middle and small, 400. Vertebral arteries, 406. Hypophysis, 534. Back of the Neck. Superficial nerves : Great occipital, 602. Branches of third, fourth, and fifth cervical, 603-606. Small occipital, 604. Great auricular, 604. Trapezius, 253. Spinal accessory nerve, 596. Levator scapula, 254. Transversalis colli artery, 411. Omohyoideus, posterior belly, 337. Posterior scapular artery, 411. Suprasca2:»ular artery, 410. Supi'ascapular nerve, 607. Vertebral fascia, 358. Splenius cervicis, 327. Splenius capitis, 326. Cervicalis ascendens, 329. TransversaHs cervicis, 329. Trachelomastoideus, 329. Occipital artery, 397. Complexus, 329. Ligamentum nuehte, 207. Arteria princeps cervicis, 398. Cervical spinal nerves, dorsal primary divisions, 602. Semispinalis cervicis, 330. Multifidus, 330. Rectus capitis posterior major, 330. Rectus capitis posterior minor, 331. 01)liquus capitis inferior, 331. Obliquus capitis superior, 331. Suboccipital nerve, dorsal primary di- vision, 602. Vertebral arteiy, 406. Side of the Neck. Platysma, 337. External jugular vein, 460. Superficial cervical lymi)h-nodes, 490. Anterior jugular vein, 460. Cervical plexus, superficial branches, 604, 605. Facial nerve, inframandibiilar l)ranch, 588. Deep fiisoia, 351. Sternocleidomastoideus, 337. Triangles of the neck, 411. Subclavian artery, 404. Suprascapular artery, 410. Transversalis colli artery, 411. Brachial ]>lexus, 606. Supraclavicular branches : to I'homboids, 606. to subclavius, 607. suprascapular, 607. posterior thoracic, 607. Sternohyoideus, 337. Omoliyoideus, 337. Sternotliyroideus, 337. Thyrohyoideus, 338. Stylomandibular ligament, 350, 352. Digastricus, 338. Stylohyoideus, 338. Hypoglossal nerve, 596. Scalenus anterior, 339. Scalenus medius, 339. Scalenus posterior, 340. Subclavian artery, 404. Vertebral arterv, 406. Thyroid axis, 410. Inferior thyroid artery, 410. Internal mammary artery, 409. Superior intercostal artery, 411. Subclavian veiu, 470. Thoi'acic, or right lymphatic, duet, 487. Cervical pleura, 765. Cervical plexus, muscular branches of, 605. Ramus cervicalis descendens, 605. Phrenic nerve, 605. Communicating branches, 605. Carotid artery (common and internal), 389, 401. Internal jugular vein, 461. Pneumogastric nerve, 592. Deep cervical Ivmph-nodes, 489. Carotid gland, 800. External carotid artery, 392. Superior thyroid artery, 393. Lingual artery, 395. Facial artery, 396. Occipital artery, 397.892 PRACTICAL ANATOMY. Posterior auricular artery, 398. Ascending phar^aigeal arterv, 398. Thyroid bod}', 796. Trachea, 757. Gullet, 712. The Face. Platysma, 337. Great auricular nerve, facial branch, 605. Parotid gland, 735. (In the parotid: external carotid, temporal, and internal maxil- lary arteries, temporomaxillary vein, facial, great auricular, and auriculotemporal nerves.) Temporal artery, 398. Orbicularis palpebrarum. Corrugator supercilii, 347. Eyelids, 691, Risorius, 346. Levator labii superioris alteque nasi, 346. Levator labii superioris proprius, 346. Zygoniaticus minor, 346. Zygomaticus major, 346. Levator anguli oris, 346. Depressor labii inferioris, 346. Depressor anguli oris, 346. Buccinator, 346. Orbicularis oris, 345. Levator menti, 346. Nasal muscles, 347. Facial nerve and branches, 585. Trifacial nerve and branches, 574. Facial artery and branches, 396. Facial vein, 457. Pinna, 678. Eyelids, 691. Levator palpebras, 691. Lachrymal gland, 694. Lachrymal canals, 694. Nasal'duct, 666. Nasal cartilages, 664. Temporal and Zygomatic Fossae. Temporal fascia, 350. Masseter, .342. Temporalis, 342. Pterygoideus externus, -342, Pterygoideus internus, 342. Internal maxillary artery, 399. Internal maxillary vein, 460. Trifacial nerve, mandibulardivision,580. Long buccal nerve, 582. Auriculotemporal nerve, 582. Inferior dental nerve, 582. Lingual nerve, 583. Chorda tympani, 587. Otic ganglion, 584. Mandibular Region. Mylohyoideus, 338. Hyoglossus, 709. Styloglossus, 709. Geniohyoideus, .339. Submaxillary gland, 735. Sublingual gland, 736. Lingual nerve, 583. Submandibular ganglion, 583. Hypoglossal nerve, 596. Genioglossus, 709. Lingual artery, 395. Deep Parts of the Neck. Stylopharyngeus, 711. Internal carotid artery, 401. Ascending pharyngeal artery, 398. Internal jugular vein, 461. Glossopharyngeal nerve, 691. Pneumogastric nerve, 592. Pharyngeal nerve, 594. Superior laryngeal nerve, 594. Inferior laryngeal nerve, 594. Cardiac ner\'es, 595. Spinal accessory nerve, 596. Pharyngeal plexus, 596. Hypoglossal nerve, 596. Sympathetic ganglia of neck, 642. Rectus capitis lateralis, 340. Prevertebral Region. Longus colli, 341. Rectus capitis anterior major, 340. Rectus capitis anterior minor, 340. Cervical nerves, 605. Vertebral artery, 406. The Orbit. Eyeball, 381. Capsule of Tenon, 381. Frontal nerve, 576. Supraorbital artery, 402. Lachrymal nerve, 676. Nasal nerve, 676. Lachrymal gland, 694. Levator palpebrte superioris, 691. Rectus superior, 690. Obliquus superior, 690. Optic nerve, 568. Ophthalmic ganglion, 577. Ophthalmic artery, 402.rHA CTICA L A NA TO 31Y. 893 Rectus externus, 690. Rectus interims, 690. Ligament of Ziun, 690. Oculomotor nerve, 571. Abducent nerve, 585. Ciliary nerves, 576, 577 Obliquus inferior, 691. Rectus inferior, 690. Orbital nerve, 578. The ear, 668. The mouth, 698. Tongue, 707. The pharynx, 710. Soft palate, 700. Tonsils, 711. Eustachian tube, 676. The larynx, 767. The nasal fossje, 664. The Back. Deep fascife, 358. Muscles in third layer, 325. Muscles in fourth layer, 327. Muscles in fifth group, 329. Branches of lower thoracic and upper lumbar nerves, 619. Intercostal nerves, 619. The spinal cord, 552. Membranes of cord, 561.895 I I INDEX. A. Abdomen, lymph-nodes of, 497 miisL'les of, 331 i-L'^ions of, 714 Abdominal aorta,426 branches of tenth, 596 cavity, 713 dissection of, 888 fascia of, 359 ring, external, 332 internal, 360 walls, dissection of, 887 Abducent nerve, 585 Al)ductor hallucis, 321 longiis poUicis, 282 minimi digiti, 279 pedis,'"321 poUicis muscle, 284 Accessorius ad ilio-costalem, 329 Accessory obturator nerve, 626 olivary nuclei, 547 spleens, 795 thyroid glands, 797 Acetabulum, 149 Acoustic tubercle, 551 Acromio-thoracic artery, 414 Adductor brevis muscle, 297 gracilis muscle, 297 longus muscle, 294 magnus muscle, 294 obliquus hallucis, 322 pollicis muscle, 284 transversus hallucis, 322 Adenoid reticular tissue, 50 Adipose tissue, 49 Adrenals, 798 After-birth, 85 Aggregated lymph-nodules, 724 Agminated glands, 724 Ala, cerebellar, 543 Albioantia, corpora, 522, 534 Alimentary canal, tunics of, 697 Allantois, 83 Alveolar artery, 401 Amniotic cavity, 84 fold, 83 Amoeba, 695 Amoeboid movements, 38 Aniphiarthrosis, 204 Ampulla of Henle, 808 rectal, 733 of semicircular canal, 669 Amygdala, 526, 711 cerebellar, 544 Amygdaloid nucleus, 526 Anal canal, 734 columns, 734 Anastomotica magna of brachial, 416 of femoral, 443 Anatomy, applied, 20 artistic, 20 Anatomy, clinical, 20 comparative, 18 definition of, 17 descriptive, 18 general, 19 gross, 18 macroscopic, 18 medical, 18 microscopic, 18 minute, 18 morphological, 20 normal, 20 pathological, 20 philosophic, 20 physiological, 20 practical, 20, 883 regional, 18 relational, 18, 847 surface, 857 surgical, 18 systematic, 18 topographical, 18 transcendental, 20 Anconeus muscle, 266 Angular artery, 397 gyrus, 516 veins, 458 Ankle-joint, 239 Annular ligament of ankle, an- terior, 363 external, 363 internal, 363 of carpus, anterior, 356 of forearm, posterior, 356 Annulus ovalis, 367 Ansa hypoglossi, 597 Anterior brachium, 633 commissure, 522 crural nerve, 624 forceps, 519 interosseus nerve, 610 ligament of uterus, 832 nares, 663 palatine nerve, 580 perforated space, 525 superior dental nerves, 578 tibial nerve, 637 Antihelix, 678 fossa of, 678 Antitragus, 678 Antrum of Highmore, 183 mastoid, 675 maxillary, ()66 pyloricum, 716 sphenoidal, 666 Anus, 734 Aorta, 383 abdominal, 426 arch of, 383 descending, 423 thoracic, 423 Aortic plexns, 647 valve, 369 Aponeurosis, 348 Apophysis, 115 Appendages of the eye, 691 Appendices epiploicae, 729 Appendix vermiforniis, 728 Applied anatomy, 20 Aqueduct of Fallopius, 174 of mesencephalon, 539 region of, 538 Aqueductus cochleae, 674 vestibuli, 673 Aqueous humor, 689 Arachnoid of brain, 560 of spinal cord, 562 Arantius, body of, 368 Arbor vitfe, cerebellar, 542 uterina, 830 Arch, deep crural, 360 palmar, 422 neural, 115 posterior carpal, 420 superficial palmar. 420 Arciform nuclei, 547 Area, auditory, 551 embryonic, 82 hypoglossal, 551 opaca, 82 [ pellucida, 82 vagus, 551 vasculosa, 83 i Areola of breast, 843, 844 secondary, 845 Areolar tissue, 47 Arm, back of, dissection of, 887 fascia of, 355 front of, dissection of, 886 muscles moving, 258 Arnold's nerve, 594 Arrectores pilorum, 658 Arteria centralis retinie, 687 Arterial circle of Huguier, 834 system, pulmonary, 379 Arteries, helicine, 817 Artery or arteries, 379 acromio-thoracic, 414 alar thoracic, 415 alveolar, 401 anastomotica magna of brach- ial, 416 of femoral, 443 angular, 397 anterior auricular. 399 carpal of radial, 422 of ulnar, 420 cerebral, 403 choroid, 403 ciliary, 402 circumflex, 415 communicating, 403 ethmoidal. 402 funicular, 834 intercostal, 409 interosseous, 418INDEX. 896 Artery or arteries, anterior iiien- " ingeal, 402 spinal, 407 temporal, 399 tibial, 450 i-ecurrent, 451 articular, of popliteal, -145 of sciatic, 437 azygos, 446 ascending cervical, 410 palatine, 397 pharyngeal, 398 auricular, 397 anterior, 399 posterior, 398 axillary, 412 azygos articular, 446 basilar, 408 brachial, 415 brachio-ceplialic, 386 bronchial, 425 buccal, 401 calcanean, internal, 449 carotid, common, in neck, 389 external, 392 internal, 401 left, in thorax, 389 carpal, anterior, of radial, 422 of ulnar, 420 posterior, of radial, 422 of ulnar, 420 recurrent, 423 central of retina, 402 cerebellar, posterior inferior, 408 cerebral, anterior, 403 hemisphere, 530 middle, 403 cervical, ascending, 410 deep, 411 superficial. 411 choroid, anterior, 403 ciliary, 686 anterior, 402 long, 402 short, 402 circumflex, anterior, 415 external, 443 iliac, deep. 439 superficial, 443 internal, 443 posterior, 415 coccvgeal, 437 colic, 430 left, 431 middle, 430 right, 430 collateral intercostal, 425 conies nervi ischiadic!, 437 common carotid, in the neck, 389 iliac, 432 communicating, anterior, 403 dorsalis pedis, 453 peroneal, 448 posterior, 403 of posterior tibial, 449 coronary, of the face, 397 corpus cavernosum, 436 cremasteric, 438 crico-thyroid, 395 cystic, of hepatic, 428 deep cervical, 411 circumflex iliac, 439 epigastric, 438 Artery or arteries, deep external pndic, 443 palmar, of ulnar, 420 dental, inferior, 400 descending palatine, 401 development of, 95 digital, of external plantar, 449 of ulnar, 420 dorsal interosseous, 422 lingual, 396 of penis, 436 dorsalis hallucis, 453 indicis, 422 pedis, 452 poUicis, 422 scapulae, 415 epigastric, deep, 438 superior, 410 ethmoidal, 402 anterior, 402 external carotid, 392 circumflex, 443 iliac, 438 obturator, 434 plantar, 449 pudic, deep, 443 superficial, 443 facial, 396 transverse, 398 femoral, 439 frontal, 403 gastric, 427 gastro-duodenalis, 428 -epiploica dextra, 428 sinistra, 429 glandular, 397 gluteal, 437 liemorrhoidal, inferior, 436 middle, 434 superior, 431 hepatic, 427, 739 hyoid, 395, 396 ileo-colic, 430 iliac, common, 432 deep circumflex, 439 external, 438 internal, 433 superficial circumflex, 443 ilio-hunbar, 437 inferior dental, 400 hemorrhoidal, 436 labial, 397 laryngeal, 410 mesenteric, 430 pancreatico duodenalis, 430 profunda, 416 thyroid, 410 infraorbital, 401 intercostal, 425 anterior, 409 collateral, 425 superior, 411 internal calcanean, 449 carotid, 401 circumflex, 443 iliac, 433 niamniarv, 409 maxillary, 399 obturator. 434 plantar, 449 pudic, 4.35 interosseous, anterior, 418 dorsal. 422 posterior, 418 of radial, 422 Artery or arteries, interosseous, of ulnar. 418 intestinal, 430 laliial, inferior, 397 lachrymal, 402 laryngeal, inferior, 410 superior, 395 lateral nasal, 397 sacral, 437 spinal. 407 left carotid, in the thorax, 389 colic, 431 lenticulo-striate, 404 lingual, 395 dorsal, 396 long ciliary, 402 thoracic, 415 lumbar, 431 malleolar, 452 mammary, internal, 409 masseteric, 401 maxillary, internal, 399 mediastinal, 409 posterior, 425 meningeal, 398 anterior, 402 middle. 400 postei'ior. 407 small, 400 mesenteric, inferior, 430 superior, 429 metatarsal, 453 middle cerebral, 403 colic, 430 hemorrhoidal, 434 meningeal, 400 temporal, 399 musculo phrenic, 409 nasal, 402 lateral, 397 nutrient of brachial, 416 to clavicle, 411 to fibula, 448 to tibia, 449 obturator, 434 external, 434 internal, 434 occipital, 397 oesophageal, 410, 425 of bulb, 436 of upper limb, 404 ophthalmic, 402 ovarian, 431 palatine, ascending, 397 descending, 401 palmar, deep, of ulnar, 420 palpebral, 402 pancreatic, 429 pancreatico-duodenalis, sujie- rior, 428 inferior, 430 perforating, 409 of profunda, 443 of radial, 423 posterior, 449 pericardial, 425 perineal, superficial, 436 transverse, 436 peroneal, 447 pharyngeal, 398 ascending, 398 phrenic, 431 superior, 409 plantar, external, 449 internal, 449