R.3>73£AFOOD AND FEEDING.■ . *FOOD AND FEEDING. BY SIR HENRY THOMPSON, F.R.C.S., M.B. LOXD., &c. Wiifj ixn SIXTH EDITION. PARTIALLY RE-WRITTEN AND CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. LONDON AND NEW YORK: FREDERICK WARNE AND CO. 1891.i.oxdox : BRADEURY, AG>TEW, il CO. UMD., PRIM ER»; WHITLFRIARS.PREFACE TO THE SIXTH EDITION. During the last few years several large editions of this little book have been called for, and much new matter was added to one or two of them. A Sixth Edition being now required, I feel that the time has come to revise the work thoroughly. The art of cooking has, like other arts, been sedulously culti- vated, and has advanced, more perhaps in relation to the wants of the middle and working classes, than in the department generally understood as la haute cumne. Moreover, the selection and the service of food are certainly far better understood now, than they were fourteen or fifteen years ago, when the first edition appeared. A considerable part of the work, therefore, has been re-written. A new Chapter on Fish has been introduced. Considerable additions have been made in describing the methods of practical cookery, and in explaining the principles which determine them.VI Preface. New subjects also have been treated in the Appendix which could not be included in the Text, besides Notes illustrative of the latter. I venture to hope that the numerous elementary hints relating to the very wide subject of Food and Feeding which have been brought together here may prove useful, and tend to promote the public taste for one of the most important and interesting branches of study, demanded by the necessities of life and of social intercourse. 35, Wimpole Street, February, 1891.CONTENTS CHAPTER I. PAGE Importance of the proper selection and preparation of food —Improper feeding common among all classes, and at all periods of life—Constituents necessary to nourish the human body, repair loss, and perform labour—Comparison between animal food and vegetable food—Individual peculiarities . 1 CHAPTEE II. Materials at man’s command for food—Grain—Legumes— Tubers—Green vegetables—Fruits-—Salt-—Animal food— Flesh—Milk—Eggs—Fisli-—lieptiles—Man omnivorous ; his food largely determined by circumstances—Food of the tropics—Is orth Africa—Arabia—Italy—Spain—France— German Empire and Russia—The Arctic zone . .11 CHAPTEE III. Fool of the English peasant—Food of Englishmen generally too solid or stimulating—Regimen suited to the sedentary, and those who are advancing in years—Value of fish as an article of diet—Food for the sedentary—Of the legu- minous plants, haricots and lentils—Of the value of fat in food—Whole meal of wheat: its employment for bread, and the circumstances which render it desirable— Rice, maize, macaroni, and potato 25 CHAPTEE IV. Milk, an example of a natural “complete” food—Its employ- ment as food, almost universal—Essentially an animalContents Vlll food—Exceedingly susceptible of injury—Mode of dis- tribution, a fertile source of disease— Milk epidemics of fever, &c.—Composition of milk—Value as a diet—AY hey —Koumiss—Means to be adopted in order to secure the purity and wholesomeness of milk 52 CHAPTER A'. Food of tlie middle-class Englishman—Boiling—Principles of applying heat—High and low temperatures—The “Bain Marie ”—AYarren's cooking pot—Norwegian cooking appa- ratus — German process — Rev. AY. M. Ede’s plan — Atkinson’s American oven—Roasting—Baking—Broiling — Braising, methods of— Stewing—Botuf a la mode —Opposite principles in French and English cookery— Superiority of each in some particulars—Frying, and its action on materials of food—The omelette . . .02 CHAPTER VI. Preparation of food continued—Soups—Fot-au^cu—The stock- pot—Bouillon—Consomme—Mode of producing endless variety—The foundations of all soups—Fish soups and stews—A^egetable soups—Garnishes—Cookery of vegetables a VAnglaisc and d la Fran^aisc—Sauces—Macaroni— Best mode of preparing it for table—Rice : various modes of cooking—Cold meats—Aspic jelly and receipts—Salads 91 CHAPTER VII. Fish, and its value as food—Constituents of flesh—Of wlieaten bread—And of fish compared—Varieties of fish, and their distinctive characters as food—Preparation of fish for the table—Sauces—Salmon in perfection—Baking of fish— Roasting of fish—Boiling and Steaming—Fish Soups and Stews—Bouillabaisc—A working man’s stow . . . 120 CHAPTER VIII. The combination of dishes to form a meal—Three specific systems of arranging the daily meals--Characteristics ofCon tents. IX each meal—Breakfast—Lunch—Dinner—Of two kinds— ^ alue of initial soup—Plan of dishes to follow—Hors- d'oeuvres CHAPTER IX. Dinners of invitation—Two kinds—Small and select—Large —The old pretentious style—Scheme of a rational dinner- party—Priority in the service of various dishes—The half-hour after dinner—Turtle and fish dinners—Curry- Sketch for a small dinner CHAPTER X. The question of wine with dinner—Should he pure but not pretentious—Relation of various kinds with certain dishes —Cigarettes after dinner—Tobacco and coffee—Common water—Aerated waters—Foreign mineral waters—Sweet drinks at dinner objectionable 160 CHAPTER XI. In order to arrange a dinner some practical acquaintance with food necessary—Also of the season at which it is in per- fection—The scheme or elementary outline of a dinner— Menus should be written in French—Two menus for each month in the year and others—The order in which dishes should be presented—Numerous dishes not included among them—Truffles 170 CHAPTER XII. The public dinner—Its undue length—Toasts too numerous — Suggestions for shortening the proceedings — Good cookery independent of pedantic and complicated receipts —Schools of cookery—Better food, in better-condition, and in more abundant supply, a pressing want for London —Conclusion 189Contents. X APPENDIX. _ ,, PAGE On the Pot-.au-Feu, Soups, &c. Pot-au-feu: Jules Gouffe’s instructions for making it The receipt of Alexandre Dumas—Gouffe’s instructions for Braising—Bceuf cl la mode—Vegetable Soup—Author’s directions for beef-tea—Table showing when fish is in season—Children’s Dinner Tables—Author’s receipt for cheap nutritious soup—The dinner of the working man, and Mr. Atkinson’s suggestions respecting it . ... 199 INDEX . 217FOOD AND FEEDING. CHAPTER I. Importance of the proper selection ancl preparation of food—Im- proper feeding common among all classes, and at all periods of life—Constituents necessary to nourish the human bod}’-— Repair loss—And perform labour—Comparison between animal and vegetable foods—Individual peculiarities. I think I stall not be far wrong if I say that there choice of are few subjects which deserve more careful study by food an man than the selection and preparation of his food, study. Our forefathers in their wisdom have provided, by ample and generously endowed organisations, for the dissemination of moral precepts in relation to human conduct, and for the constant supply of sustenance to meet the cravings of religious emotions common to all sorts and conditions of men. In these provisions no student of human nature can fail to recognise the spirit of wisdom and a lofty purpose. But it is not a sign of ancestral wisdom that so little thought has been bestowed on the teaching of what we should eat and drink; or on the relations necessarily existing not only between food and a healthy population, but between food and a virtuous life. Indeed, the process of digestion and the influenceFood and Feeding. o it exerts on the sources of mental and moral power, have received little attention in any scheme for fitting men and women for the practical duties of life. JSTo douht the truth has long been accepted, at all events by intelligent persons, that a man’s temper, and consequently the character of his actions, often depend on the contingency that what he eats is pro- perly converted, or not, into healthy material, suitable for the ceaseless work of building up both muscle The reia- and brain. But the truth of that fact has never been between generally admitted to an extent at all comparable with food and its exceeding importance. It produces no practical ch&r&ctcri t 0 ‘ result on the habits of men in the least degree com- mensurate with the claim it has to be believed and acted upon. For it is certain that an adequate prac- tical recognition of the value of proper food to the individual in maintaining a high standard of health, in prolonging healthy life (the prolongation of un- healthy life being small gain either to the individual or to the community), and thus largely promoting cheerful temper, prevalent good nature, and improved moral tone, would achieve almost a revolution in the habits of a large part of the community. Influence The general outlines of a man’s mental character of race. anq physical tendencies are doubtless largely deter- mined by the impress of race and family. That is to say, the scheme of the building, its characteristics and dimensions, are inherited; but to a very large extent the materials and filling in of the framework depend, Influence in regard of their quality, upon his food and training. Of food and jg ^ latter term may be understood all that relates training. J JImproper Food in Early Life. 3 to mental and moral and even to physical education, assumed to be fairly provided for, and not to be con- sidered here. No matter, then, how consummate the scheme of the architect, nor how vast the design, more or less of failure to rear the edifice results when the materials are ill chosen or for the most part un- worthy to be used. Other sources of failure there may be which it is no part of my business to note ; but the influence of food is not only itself cardinal in rank, but, by priority of action, is the source of various forces, injurious or the reverse, as the case may be. A very slight sketch of the course of development observed in the most ordinary types of human life will suffice to illustrate this truth. To commence then, I fear it must be admitted that Errors in the majority of British infants are reared on imperfect infant?, milk by weak or ill-fed mothers. And thus it follows that the signs of feeble vitality, of fretful disposition or of disease, may be observed at a very early age, and are apparent in symptoms of indigestion or in the cravings of want manifested by the “ peevish ” and sleepless child. In circumstances where there is no want of appropriate nutriment, over-feeding or com- plicated forms of food, suitable only for older persons, produce for another infant troubles which are no less grave than those of the class whose supply is deficient. In the next stage of life, when infancy has been children passed and childhood is attained, among the poor, the £ed> little one takes his place at the parents’ table, where lack of means, as well as of knowledge, deprives him of food more suitable than the rough fare of theFood and Feeding. 4 means frequent indisposi- tion ; most com- plaints so caused. adult, and moreover obtains for him, perchance, his little share of tea, or even of beer or gin. On the whole, perhaps he is not much worse off than the child of the well-to-do, who becomes a pet, and is already familiarised with complex and too solid forms of food, as well as with stimulating drinks, which cus- tom and self-indulgence have placed on the daily table. And soon afterwards commence in conse- quence—and entirely in consequence, a fact it is im- possible too much to emphasize—the “sick head- aches ” and “ bilious attacks/’ which pursue their victim through half a lifetime, to be exchanged for gout or worse at or before the grand climacteric. And so common are these evils that they are regarded by people in general as a necessary appanage of “ poor humanity,” and together with measles or hooping cough, to be part of the natural development of the full grown and complete man! jNo notion can be more erroneous, since it is absolutely true that the complaints referred to are self-engendered, form no necessary part of our physical nature, and for their existence are dependent almost entirely on our habits in relation to food and drink. I except, of course, those cases in which hereditary tendency is so strong as to produce these evils, despite some care on the part of the unfortunate victim of an ancestor’s self- indulgence. Equally, however, on the part of that little-to-be-revered progenitor was ill-chosen food, or more probably an excessive indulgence in quantity, the cause of his disease, and not the physical nature of man.Improper Food in Boyhood and Youth. The next stage of boyhood transfers the child just improper spoken of to a public school, where too often insuffi- g^oof cient or inappropriate diet, at the most critical period of growth, lias led to the habit of supplementing the supply from other sources. It is almost unnecessary to say that chief among them are those unsuitable purveyors, the pastrycook and the vendor of portable provisions, with their wares of questionable character consumed not at meal times, but at irregular hours. Many an unhappy dyspeptic owes his complaint to a confirmed habit of taking such food in the intervals when the stomach ought to be at rest. After this period arise the temptations to drink, Early among the youth of all classes, whether at beerhouse, ^nkL°g tavern, or club. For it has been taught in the bosom of the family, by the father’s example and by the mother’s precept, that wine, beer, and spirits are useful, nay, necessary to health, and that they augment the strength. And the lessons thus mcul- cated and too well learned have proved to be the steps which lead to wider experience in the pursuit of health and strength by larger use of the same means. Under such circumstances it often happens, as the youth grows up, that a flagging appetite or a failing digestion habitually demands a dram before or between meals, and that these latter arc regarded rather as occasions to indulge in variety of liquor than as repasts for nourishing the body. It is not surprising, with such training, that the true object of both eating and drinking is entirely lost sight of. The gratification of acquired tastes usurps the function of that zest which6 Food and Feeding. Evils of early indi- gestion thus, and otherwise caused. healthy appetite produces; and the intention that food should he adapted to the physical needs of the body and the healthy action of the mind is forgotten altogether. So it often comes to pass, that at middle age, when man finds himself in the full current of life’s occupations, struggling for pre-eminence with his fellows, indigestion has become persistent in some of its numerous forms, shortens his “ staying power,” or spoils his judgment or temper. And, besides all this, how apparent it is that few causes are more potent than an incompetent stomacli to engender habits of selfishness and egotism. A constant care to provide little personal wants of various hinds, thus rendered necessary, developes the growth of these sentiments, and they influence the man’s whole character in con- sequence. On the other hand, the poor man, advanc- ing in years, shows signs of damage to his constitu- tion from continuous toil with inadequate food, the supply of which is often diminished by his expenditure for beer, which, although not seldom noxious, he regards as the elixir of life, never to be missed when fair occasion for obtaining it is offered. Many of this class arc prematurely crippled by articular disease, &c., and become permanent inmates of the parish workhouse or infirmary. It must be obvious to everybody how much more of detail might be added to fill in the outlines of this little sketch. It is meagre in the extreme : neverthe- less it amply suffices for my purpose ; other illustra- tions will occur to any observer who cares to pursue the subject further.7 Mode of considering- the Subject. But it is necessary to say here, and I desire to say << Taste” it emphatically, that this question of food need not,in food.to even with the views just enunciated, he treated in an vated.1" ascetic spirit. The selection of food is to be considered in relation to a principle, in which we may certainly believe, namely, that aliments most adapted to develop An inter- the individual, sound in body and mind, shall not only subjSt be acceptable to the palate, but that they may be thus. selected and prepared so as to afford scope for the 16 ' exercise of a refined taste, and produce a fair degree of an innocent pleasure naturally associated with the act of eating, and derived from a study of the table. For it is certain that a very large portion of the gourmandise which has, at all events until very late years, been practised in English society—where it is often the result of faith without knowledge—is no more a source of gratification to the eater’s gustatory sense than it is of digestible sustenance to his body. The subject of this little work will therefore take l. Uses of the following form in regard of the matter, and the ^°dytotlie method of considering it. Food must first be re- garded in relation to its value as material to be used for building up and sustaining that composite structure, the human body, under the varied condi- tions in which it may be placed. Secondly, the 2. Modes selection of food, and the best modes of preparing it, ingYfpaar' resulting in the production of “the dish,” a subject of dish.” great extent and importance, must be dealt with so far as the limits of my design will permit. Lastly, 3. Art of the exercise of taste in relation to the serving of food d°^gXg {of and drink, or the art of combining dishes to form “ a meal.”8 Food and Feeding. What is food 1 Physiolo- gical ne- cessities for food, and to replace wasted structure, “ a meal,” must also be considered in relation to various purposes. I sliall not regard this as the place in which to offer any scientific definition of the term food. I shall include within its range all the solid materials popularly so regarded and therefore eaten. And drink being as necessary as solids for the purpose of digestion, and to supply that large proportion of fluid which the body contains in every mesh and cell thereof, I shall regard as “ drink ” all the liquids which it is customary to swallow with our meals, although probably very few, if any, of them can be regarded as food in any strict sense of the term. Food is essential to the body in order to fulfil two distinct purposes, or to supply two distinct wants in- separable from animal life. As certainly as a steam- engine requires fuel, by the combustion or oxidation of which force is called into action for various purposes— as the engine itself requires the mending and replacing of parts wasted in the process of working—so certainly does the animal body require a supply of digestible matter by means of which force can be produced ; and also a special form of nutriment to replace those parts which are necessarily wasted by labour, whether it be physical or mental, that is, of limbs or of brain. The material which is competent to supply both requirements is a complete or perfect food. Examples of complete food exist in milk and the egg, sufficing as these do for all the wants of the young animal during the period of early growth. Neverthe-Constituents necessary in Human Food. c less a Single animal product like either of the two named, although complex in itself, is not more perfect than an artificial combination of various simpler sub- stances, provided the mixture (dish or meal) contains all the elements required in due proportion for the purposes of the body. .It would be out of place to occupy much space with those elementary details of the chemical consti- tution of the body which may he found in any small manual of human physiology;* but for the right understanding of our subject, a brief sketch must°be presented. Let it suffice to say that carbon, hydro- gen, and oxygen, the three all-pervading elements of the vegetable world, enter largely into the composi- to furnish ti°n of the animal body; and that the two former fu®Iforthe combined especially constitute a fuel, the oxidation of heaTand which produces animal heat, and developes the force for lafcour in its. varied forms, physical and mental, which the body is capable of exerting. Besides these, nitrogen, obtainable from certain vegetable products, not from all, but forming definite combinations with the three elements just named, is essential to the repair and All the reproduction of the body itself, being one of its most the important constituents. Lastly must be named several body must other elements which, in small proportions, are also pfjed hi essential constituents of the body; such as sulphur, food, phosphorus, salts of lime, magnesia, potash, &c., with traces of iron and ether metals. All these must be * Such as Physiology, Science Primer, by M. Foster, M.A., M.D. (Macmillan) ; Lessons in Elementary Physiology, by Professor Huxley Macmillan)TO All exist in the vegetable kingdom, where many animals obtain them. Man eat- ing flesh obtains them ready made. Bat for fuel, simple aliments suffice, fats and starch. Food and Feeding. present in the food supplied, otherwise animal exist- ence cannot he supported; and all are found in the ' egetahle kingdom, and may he obtained directly therefrom hy man in feeding on vegetables alone.* But the process of obtaining and combining these simple elements into the more complex forms which constitute the bases of animal tissues—definite com- pounds of nitrogen with carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen —is also accomplished hy the lower animals, which are exclusively vegetable feeders. These animals we can consume as food, and thus procure, if we please, ready prepared for our purpose, the materials of flesh, sinew, and bone, for immediate use. "We obtain also from the animal milk and the egg, already said to be “ perfect ” foods; and they are so because they con- tain the nitrogenous compounds referred to, fatty matter abundantly, and the various saline or mineral matters requisite. But compounds simpler in form than the preceding, of a non-nitrogenous kind, that is, of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen only, are neces- sary as food for the production of animal heat and force. These consist, first, of the fat of animals of various kinds; the fat of milk, cream, or butter; also the fatty products of the vegetable kingdom, which are found in grain and legumes, and largely in the olive and in many seeds: secondly, of the starchy * The vegetable kingdom comprehends the cereals, legnmes, roots, starches, sugar, herbs, and fruits. Persons who style themselves vegetarians, often consume milk, egg3, butter, cheese, and lard, which are choice foods from the animal kingdom. There are other persons, of course, who are strictly vegetable eaters, and such alone have any right to the title of vegetarians.Combination of Various Elements. n matters, all derived from vegetables, familiarly known as forming a large part of wlicaten, oat, barley, and rye-meals, rice, arrowroot, and potatoes; together with sugar from various sources, besides gum, and other minor vegetable products of a similar kind. The fats form the more important group of the The fats, two, both in relation to the production of heat and force; and without a constant supply of fat as food the body would cease to exist. The vegetable eater, pure and simple, can therefore extract from his food all the principles necessary for the growth and support of the body as well as for the pro- duction of heat and force, provided that he selects vegetables which contain all the essential elements named. But he must for this purpose consume the best cereals, wheat or oats; or the legumes, beans, peas, or lentils ; otherwise he must swallow and digest The a large weight of vegetable matter of less nutritive starches, value, and therefore containing at least one element in large excess, in order to obtain all the elements he needs. Thus the Irishman requires for his support ten to eleven pounds of potatoes daily, which contain chiefly starch—a superfluous quantity in order to obtain a barely sufficient quantity of nitrogen of which there is little in this tuber, with scarcely any fat; hence he obtains instead, when he can, milk, laid, bacon, or a herring to supply the deficiency.. I he i Highlander, living mainly on oatmeal, requires, a •very much smaller weight, since this grain contains I:not only starch, but much nitrogen and a moderate liamount of fat, although not sufficient for his purpose,I 2 Food and Feeding. Mixed dietaries of animal and vege- table foods; considera- tions re- lating thereto. hence it is usually supplied by taking milk or a little bacon also. On the other band, the man who lives chiefly or largely on flesh and eggs as well as bread, obtains precisely the same principles, but served in a concentrated form, and a weight of about two or three pounds of such food is a full equivalent to the Irishman’s ten or eleven pounds of potatoes and extras. The meat- eater’s digestion is taxed with a far less quantity of solid, but that very concentration in regard of quality entails on some stomachs an expenditure of force in digestion equal to that required by the vegetable eater to assimilate his much larger portions. And it must be admitted, as a fact beyond question, that some persons are stronger and more healthy who live chiefly or altogether on vegetables, while there are many others for whom a proportion of animal food appears to be desirable, if not necessary. In studying this matter, individual habit must be taken into account. An animal feeder may by slow degrees accustom himself to a diet chiefly vegetable, without loss of weight or strength, not without feeling some incon- venience in the process ; but a sudden change in diet in this direction is for a time almost equivalent to starvation. The digestive organs require a consider- able period to accommodate themselves to the per- formance of work different from that to which they have been long accustomed; while some persons, although able to diminish considerably the proportion of animal food, cannot relinquish it altogether without manifest injury to health. Moreover, in matters of diet essentially, manyIndividual Peculiarities as to Diet. persons have individual peculiarities; and while cer- tain fixed principles exist, such as those already laid down as absolutely cardinal, in the detail of their application to each man’s wants, an infinity of stomach-eccentricities will he encountered if the sphere of observation is considerable. The old proverb expresses the fact strongly but truly: “ What No uni- is one man’s meat is another man’s poison.” Yet Applicable nothing is more common—and one rarely leaves a t0 a11- social dinner table without observing it—than to hear some good-natured person recommending to his neigh- bour, with a confidence rarely found except in alliance with profound ignorance of the matter in hand, some Great in- special form of food, or drink, or system of diet, solely variety in because the adviser happens to have found it useful relation to to himself. More rationally might the adviser recom- powe^and mend the universal use of a hat moulded to the form of want3> his own head, or of a boot made on the last contrived for his own tender foot! For the differences between the parts just named in different individuals is far less, and is also far less easily estimated than the differences to be met with in their digestive organs, and in the capabilities with which these organs are endowed.CHAPTER II. Materials at man’s command for food—Grain—Legumes—Tubers —Green vegetables—Fruits—Salt—Animal food—Flesh—Milk —%s—Fish—Eeptiles—Man omnivorous : his food largely determined by circumstances—Food of the tropics—North Africa—Arabia—Italy—Spain—-France—German Empire and Russia —The Arctic zone. The re- sources of man in relation to food. The cereals. It will be interesting now to take a general but brief survey of the vast range of materials which civilised man has at his command for the purpose of food : these few preliminary remarks on the chemical constituents of fond having been intended to aid in appreciating the value of different kinds. Commencing with the vegetable kingdom, from which our early progenitors, probably during long ages, drew all their sustenance, the cereals, or culti- vated grasses, come first, as containing all the ele- ments necessary to life, and being therefore the most largely consumed. Wheat and its congeners, which rank highest in quality, had been distinguished, in the form of bread, as “the staff of life,” long before the physiological demonstration of the fact had been attained. Wheat, oats, rye and barley, maize and rice, arc the chief members of this group; wheat contain- ing most of the nitrogenous or flesh-forming material, besides abundance of starch, a moderate amount of fat,Grains—Legumes—Tubers and Roots. 15 together with sufficient saline and mineral elements, and that Rice, on the other hand, contains very little nitrogen, which fat, and mineral constituents, hut starch in great furnish, abundance; while maize, with a fair supply of nitro- genous and starchy matter, contains the most fatty material of the whole group. As derived from wheat must he named those valuable aliments, macaroni, vermicelli, and all the Italian pastes. Derived from barley is malt-saccharine, parent of the large family of fermented liquors known as beer. And from various other grains are obtained by fermentation and distillation, several forms of ardent spirit. Vinegar, best when produced from the grape, is also largely made from grain. The legumes, such as beans, lentils, and peas, form The legu- an aliment of great value, containing more nitrogen even than the cereals, but with fat in very small pro- jmrtion, while starchy matter and the mineral elements abound in both groups. The tuber finds its type in the potato which, like Tubers rice, contains much starch, little nitrogen, and almost and roots- no fat; the same may be said of the yam also. The roots may be illustrated by the beet, carrot, parsnip, and turnip, ail containing little nitrogen, but much sugar, and water in large proportion. Derived from roots and stems of foreign growth, we have arrowroot, tapioca, and sago, all starches and destitute of nitro- gen. Fatty matter is abundantly found in the olive, oils and which supplies a large part of the world with an im- fat- portant article of food. The almond and other seeds, as rape, cotton, mustard, are also fruitful sources of oil.Food and Feeding. t6 The green vege- tables. Condi- ments. Seaweeds, fungi, gourds, nuts, bread- fruit. Fruits and their deri- vatives. Under the term “green vegetables,” a few leading plants may be enumerated as types of the vast natural supplies which everywhere exist:—The entire cabbage tribe in great variety; lettuces, endive, and cresses; spinach, seakale, asparagus, celery, onions, artichokes, and tomato, all valuable not so much for nutritive property, which is not considerable, as for admixture with other food chiefly on account of salts which they contain, and for their appetising aroma and varied flavours. Thus condiments are useful, as the sweet and aromatic spices, the peppers, mustard, and the various potherbs, so essential to an agreeable cuisine. Seaweeds, under the name of laver, and the whole tribe of mushrooms, should be named, as rank- ing much higher in nutritive value than green vegetables. Pumpkins, gourds or marrows, and cu- cumbers, chestnuts, and other nuts largely support life in some countries. The bread fruit is of high value ; so also are the cocoanut and the banana in tropical climates. Lastly must be named all those delicious but not very nutritive products of most varied kind and source, grouped under the name of fruits. These arc characterised chiefly by the presence of sugar, acid, vegetable jelly, and some saline matter, often com- bined with scent and flavour of exquisite quality Derived from grapes as its chief source, stands wine in its innumerable varieties, so closely associated by all civilised nations with the use of aliments, although not universally admitted to rank in technical language as a food. Next may be named sugar in its variousVariety of Animal Foods. 17 forms, a non-nitrogenous product of great value, and, Sugar and in a less degree, honey. No less important are the tea coffeJ.’&c’ plant, the coffee berry, and the seeds of the cacao tree. There is a single element belonging to the mineral kingdom which is taken in its natural state as an addition to food, namely, common salt; and it is so Common universally recognised as necessary, that it cannot be salt‘ omitted here. The foregoing list possesses no claim to be exhaustive, only to be fairly typical and sug- gestive ; a few omissions, which some may think im- portant, doubtless exist. In like manner, a rapid survey may be taken of the animal kingdom. First, the flesh of domestic quadrupeds: the ox and A.nimal sheep, both adult and young; the pig ; the goat; the flesh; horse and ass, chiefly in France. Milk, butter, and cheese milk and in endless variety are derived chiefly from this group, tives?11™" More or less wild are the red deer, the fallow deer, and the roe-deer. As game, the hare and rabbit; Game, abroad, the bison, wild boar, bear, chamois, and kan- garoo, are esteemed for food among civilised nations ; but many other animals are eaten by half-civilised and savage peoples. All these are rich in nitrogen, fatty matters, and saline materials. Among birds, we have domestic poultry in great Poultry, variety of size and quality, with eggs in great abund- Egg'a- ance furnished chiefly by this class; all the wild fowl and aquatic birds; the pigeon tribe and the small birds; winged game in all its well-known variety. Of fish it is unnecessary to enumerate the enormous risk, supply and the various species which exist everywhere, and especially on our own shores, from the sturgeon toi8 Food and Feeding. Reptiles. Molluscs or “ shell fish.” Is man naturally a flesh feeder 1 Originally vege- tarian, he has become omni- vorous. whitebait, besides those in fresh-water rivers and lakes. All of them furnish nitrogenous matter largely, hut, and particularly the white fish, possess fat in very small quantity, with a fair proportion of saline ma- terials. The salmon, mackerel, eels, and herring tribes have more fat, the last-named in considerable quantity, forming a useful food well calculated to supplement cereal aliments, and largely adopted for the purpose both in the south and north of Europe. The so-called reptiles furnish turtle, tortoise, and edible frog. Among articulated animals are the lob- sters, crabs, and shrimps. Among molluscs, the oyster and all the shellfish, which, as well as the preceding animals, in chemical composition closely resemble that of fish properly so called. I shall not enter on a discussion of the question : Is man designed to be a vegetable feeder, or a flesh- eating or an omnivorous animal ? Any evidence to be found by anatomical investigation can only be safely regarded as showing what man is and has been. Thus the characters of his teeth and digestive organs indi- cate that during his long history of development he has mainly lived on roots, seeds, nuts and fruits; in other words, he has been a vegetable feeder. For the organs named are in all essential points, identical with those possessed by the highest apes whose food is that described. During the stages of what is called civilisation, he has gradually extended his resources and has long been omnivorous to the extent which his experience and his circumstances have permitted. 'Whether he has been generally prudent or happy inWork and Food must Correspond. *9 his choice of food and drink is highly improbable, His career seeing that until very recently he has possessed no certain knowledge touching the relations which matters experi- used as food hold with respect to the structure andment8‘ wants of his body, and that such recent knowledge has been confined to a very few individuals. Whatever sound practice he may have attained, and it is not in- considerable, in his choice and treatment of food, is the result of many centuries of empirical observation, the process of which has been attended with much disastrous failure and some damage to the experi- menters. No doubt much unsound constitution and inherited proclivity to certain diseases result from the persistent use through many generations of improper food and drink. Speaking in general terms, man seems, at the pre- Most per- sent time, prone to choose foods which are unneces- toonmeh sarily concentrated and too rich in nitrogenous or flesh, flesh-forming material, and to consume more in quan- tity than is necessary for the healthy performance of the animal functions. He is apt to leave out of sight the great difference, in relation to both quantity and quality of food, which different habits of life demand, being cjj., between the habits of those who are chiefly seden- tary and brain-workers, and of those who lead an tion to the active out-of-door life and exercise muscle more than tablts of brain. He makes very small account of the different kind and amount of nutriment required respectively by the young and growing child, the mature adult, and the declining or aged person. And he seems to he still less aware of tho frequent existence of notable life.Food and Feeding. 20 Few men have any know- ledge of food, or of its prepara- tion. taking no interest therein. individual peculiarities in relation to tire tolerance of certain aliments and drinks. As a rule, man has little knowledge of, or interest in, the processes by which food is prepared for the table, or the conditions necessary to the healthy digestion of it by himself. Until a tolerably high standard of civilisation is reached, he cares more for quantity than quality, desires little variety, and is disposed to regard any innovation in the shape of a new aliment as imper- tinent, expecting the same food at the same hour daily, his enjoyment of which apparently depends greatly on his ability to swallow the portion with extreme rapidity, that he may apply himself to some other and more important occupation without delay. Eating is treated in fact by multitudes much as they are disposed to treat religious duty—and eating is indeed one of the most important of all duties if my opening remarks are true—namely, as an observance, which is generally irksome, but unfortunately necessary to be performed. As to any exercise of taste in the serving or in the combining of different foods at a meal, the subject is completely out of reach of the great majority of people, and is as little compre- hended by them as the structure and harmonies of a symphony are by the first whistling boy one chances to meet in the street. The intelligent reader who has sufficient interest in this subject to have followed me thus far may fancy this a sketch from savage life. On the contrary, I can assure him that ignorance and in- difference to the nature and object of food mark the condition of a large majority of the so-called educated21 Alan an Omnivorous Animal. people of this country. Men even boast of their ignor- ance of so trivial a subject, regard it as unworthy the exercise of their powers, and—small compliment to their wives and sisters—fit only for the occupation of women. Admitting man, then, to be physically so con- Man may stituted as to be able to derive all that is necessary to live on the healthy performance of all his functions from the dieTin^0 animal or from the vegetable kingdom, either singly £^aatnes or combined, he can scarcely be regarded otherwise than as qualified to be an omnivorous animal. But Good there is also the fact that man has found a permanent grounds home, and propagated his race in almost every part of limiting the globe, from the equator to the arctic regions. He ^reto has, therefore, sometimes been compelled to do so on a diet obtainable within very narrow limits, consuming, according to circumstances, food almost exclusively vegetable; or, on the other hand, obtained entirely from the animal kingdom. Then, in highly-civilised countries, his enterprise and intelligence have prompted him to obtain new forms of food from all parts of the world; and especially to render it more adapted to the stomach as well as more agreeable to the palate by the power of using heat which no other animal possesses. From these considerations there appears little ground for an a priori argument in favour of limiting his diet to products of either kingdom exclusively. We shall find it an interesting enquiry to ascertain Food what materials, under the empirical conditions named, ^pce^d3 have furnished the staple food of the common people mate, of various climates and races—what, in short, supportsFood in the tropics. The East. In South ern Europe. Italy. Food and Feeding. <-> the life and labour of the chief part of the world’s population. In the tropics and adjacent portions of the temperate zones, high temperature being incompatible with the physical activity familiar to northern races, a very little nitrogenous material suffices, since the expendi- ture is small. Only a moderate quantity of fat is taken, the demand for heat and for force being incon- siderable. The chiefly starchy products supply nearly all the nutriment required, and such are found in rice, millet, &c. Rice by itself is the principal food of the wide zone thus indicated, including a large part of China, the East Indies, part of Africa and America, and also the West Indies. Small additions, where obtainable, are made of other seeds, of oil, butter, &c.; and as temperature decreases by distance from the equator, some fish, fowl, or other light form of animal food, are added. In the north of Africa, Arabia, and some neigh- bouring parts, the date, which contains sugar in abundance, is largely eaten, as well as maize and other cereals. Crossing to Europe, the southern Italian is found subsisting on macaroni, legumes, rice, fruits, and salads, with oil, cheese, fish, and small birds, but very little meat. More northward, besides fish and a little meat, maize is the chief aliment, rye and other cereals taking a second place. The chestnut also is largely eaten by the poorer population, both it and maize containing more fatty matter than wheat* oats, and legumes.Relation of Food to Climate. 2 3 In Spain, the inhabitants subsist chiefly on maize Spain, and rice, with, some wheat and legumes, among them the garbanzo or “ chick pea,” and one of the prin- cipal vegetable components of the national olla, which contains also a considerable proportion of animal food in variety, as bacon, sausage, fowl, &c. Fruit is fine and abundant; especially so are grapes, figs, and melons. There is little or no butter, the universal substitute for which is olive oil, produced in great quantity. Fowls and the pig furnish the chief animal food, and garlic is the favourite condiment. Going northward, flesh of all kinds occupies a more Different considerable place in the dietary. In France the necessary garden vegetables and legumes form an importantin North- staple of diet for all classes ; but the very numerous Europe, small land proprietors subsist largely on the direct France, products of the soil, adding little more than milk, poultry, and eggs, the produce of their small farms. The national pot-au-feu is an admirable mixed dish, in which a small portion of meat is made to yield all its nutritive qualities, and to go far in mingling its odour and savour with those of the fragrant vegetables, including sweet and savoury herbs, which are largely added to the stock. The beef, which is an essential portion of the dish, is often eaten hot after the soup, but sometimes cold, with plenty of green salad and oil, doubtless the most palatable mode of serving, while it furnishes a source of fat, if not otherwise provided for by butter, cheese, &c.* * For full details as to the nature and preparation of the pot-axi* feu, see page 92, and the Appendix.24 Food and Feeding. Germany. Norway and Sweden. Russia. The Arctic Circle. Throughout the German Empire, the cereals, legumes, greens, roots, and fruits supply an im- portant proportion of the food consumed by the com- mon population. Wheaten bread chiefly, and some made from rye, also beans and peas, are used abun- dantly. Potatoes and green vegetables of all kinds are served in numerous ways, but largely in soup, a favourite dish. Meats, chiefly pork, are greatly esteemed in the form of sausage, and appear also in small portions or joints, but freely garnished with vegetables, on the tables of those who can afford animal diet. Moreover, sweet farinaceous dishes, containing more or less butter or lard, abound. Going northward, where the climate is no longer adapted for the production of wheat, as in Norway and Sweden, the common people rarely see bread, living on oat and rye meal porridge, potatoes, adding much bacon and herrings for necessary fat. Hard rye cakes hanging in the cottage rafters half the year are esteemed, as is sour milk in summer, and coffee or weak beer at all times. In northern Russia the same cereals, salted fish, and bacon form the staple foods, while much coarse-grain spirit is consumed. Lastly, it is well known that the inhabitants of the Arctic zone are compelled to consume large quantities of oily matter, in order to generate heat abundantly ; and also that animal food is necessarily the staple of their dietary. Yegetables, which moreover are not producible in so severe a climate, would there be wholly inadequate to support life.CHAPTER III. Food of the English peasant—Food of Englishmen generally too solid or stimulating—Eegimen suited to the sedentary—and those who are advancing in years—Value of fish as an article of diet—Of the leguminous plants, haricots and lentils—Of the value of fat in food—Whole meal of wheat : its employment for bread, the circumstances which render it desirable—Rice, maize, macaroni, and potato. We will now consider tlie food which the English Foods peasant and artisan provide. The former lives, for the most part, on wheaten bread and cheese, with labouring • • classes occasionally a little bacon, some potatoes, and per- haps garden greens; it is only occasionally indeed that he can obtain fresh meat. To this dietary the artisan adds meat as a rule, mostly beef or mutton, and some butter. A piece of fresh, and therefore not often ill tender beef, is baked, or cooked in a frying-pan, in selected the latter case becoming a hard, and not very diges- tible morsel; by the former process a somewhat better and dish is produced, the meat being usually surrounded ^imred!7 by potatoes or by a layer of batter, since both con- tain starchy products, and absorb the fat which leaves the meat. The food of the peasant might, however, be cheaper and better; wdiile the provision of the artisan is extravagant and bad. At this period of our national history, when food is scarce, and the supply of meat insufficient to meet the demandFood and Feeding. 26 Suscep- tible of much improve- ment. Value of cereals and legumes. which our national hahits of feeding perpetuate, it is an object of the first importance to consider whether other aliments can be obtained at a cheaper rate, and at the same time equal in quality to those of the existing dietary. Many believe that this object may he accomplished without difficulty, and that the chief obstacle to improvement in the food- supply, not only of the classes referred to, but in that of the English table generally, is the common pre- judice which exists against any aliment not yet widely known or tried. The one idea which the working classes possess in relation to improvement in diet, and which they invariably realise when wages arc high, is an abundant supply of butcher’s meat. To make this the chief element of at least three meals daily, and to despise bread and vegetables, is for them no less a sign of taste, than a declaration of belief in the perfection of such food for the purposes of nutrition. We have already seen that not only can all that is necessary to the human body be supplied by the vegetable kingdom solely, hut that, as a matter of fact, the world’s population is to a large extent sup- ported by vegetable products. Such form, at all events, the most wholesome and agreeable diet for the inhabitants of the tropics. Between about forty and nearly sixty degrees of latitude we find large populations of fine races trained to be the best labourers in the world on little more than cereals and legumes, with milk (cheese and butter), as food; that little consistiug of irregular and scanty supplies of fish, flesh, and fatty matter. In colder regionsEnglishmen consume loo much Animal Food. 2 vegetable products are hardly to be obtained, and flesh and fat are indispensable. Thus man, in the widest sense of the term, is clearly omnivorous ; while tribes or varieties may be advantageously vegetarian in one climate, mixed eaters in another, and exclu- sively flesh-eaters in a third. I have not hesitated to say that Englishmen gene- Engiish- rally have adopted a diet adapted for a somewhat more ^m/too northerly latitude than that which they occupy; that the cost of their food is therefore greater than it need f00d. be, and that their numerous forms of indigestion and much resulting chronic disease are further necessary consequences of the same error. They consume too much animal food, particularly the flesh of cattle. For all who are occupied with severe and continuous Circum- mechanical labour, a mixed diet, of which cereals and ^ichS legumes form a large portion, and fish, some fat meat, “°^ify bacon, or lard, eggs, cheese, and milk form a moderate, but constant proportion, is more nutritious and whole- some than a ration largely consisting of the flesh of animals. For those whose labour is chiefly mental, and whose muscular exercise is inconsiderable, still less of concentrated nitrogenous food is desirable. Then there is a large class of persons who indulge, not neces- sarily in quantity, but in a kind of food generally reputed “simple and wholesome,” which nevertheless for them, creates a condition of corpulence, not merely incon- venient, but prejudicial to health, and to their pro- spects of longevity. Such tendencies existing, and espe- cially if the individual does not, or cannot take much exercise, the choice of food, free from fatty constituent.Food and Feeding. 28 o Quantity of food to be dimin- ished in advancing years, Serious evils arise from neglect of this course. or from fat-producing elements, is a matter of no small importance. Then, again, it is absolutely certain, contrary to the popular belief as this is, that while a good supply of food is essential during the period of growth and active middle life, a diminished supply is desirable in relation to health and prolongation of life during declining years, when physical exertion is small, and the digestive faculty sometimes becomes less powerful also. I shall not regard it as within my province hero to dilate largely on this topic, but I desire to point out that the system of “ supporting ” aged persons, as it is termed, with increased quantities of food and stimulant, is an error of cardinal importance, and, without doubt, tends to shorten, or to embitter life. This erroneous practice ignores the important fact that as age increases, the ability to eliminate food un- necessarily consumed notably diminishes. The func- tions by which surplus and effete matters are thrown off from the system are less active than in youth and middle age; and the results of over-feeding, which a robust constitution can get rid of without obvious evil, become a source of dangerous embarrassment to the feebler organization of one advanced in years. Hence the appearance of a crowd of chronic troubles peculiar to the latter third of life, are to a great extent avoid- able. So far from continuing to select the strong nourishment which may have been necessary during the toil and anxieties of thirty years or more of adult energy and activity throughout the prime of life, the elderly man who desires to preserve fair health, and to attain to longevity, should gradually diminish his29 Land Produce, and Imports. use of strong nitrogenous and much fatty food. lie should substitute a lighter dietary, as he subsides naturally, and more or less gradually, into the class of the sedentary, and adopts the regimen best adapted thereto, hereafter to be considered.* These tilings being so, a consideration of no small The concern arises in relation to the economical manage- r^ources ment of the national resources. For it is a fair com- related putation that every acre of land devoted to the pro- subject of duction of meat is capable of becoming the source of diet- three or four times the amount of produce of equivalent value as food, if devoted to the production of grain. In other words, a given area of land cropped with cereals and legumes, will support a population more than three times as numerous as that which can be sustained on the same land devoted to the growth of cattle. Moreover, the corn-land will produce, almost without extra cost, a considerable quantity of animal food, in the form of pigs and poultry, from the offal or coarser parts of vegetable produce which is unsuitable for human consumption. Thus this country purchases every year a large and Large mcreasmg quantity ot corn and hour irom foreign duction countries, while more of our own land is yearly de- here , . m, • , . , rcauses voted to grazing purposes, lhe increased import 01 iarge corn and flour and other agricultural produce by Great Britain during the last twenty years (that is, previous grain, to the end of 1888, which is the latest information at * See “ Diet in Relation to Aye and Activity,” where the subject is discussed at length. Kegan Paul, Trench & Co., Paternoster How. By the Author.30 Food and Feeding. present obtainable), is exhibited in the following table:— * Consumption of Imported Foods per Head of Population in the United Kingdom :— Articles. 1869. 1888. Com and Flour . . 155 *85 pounds 220’14 pounds Butter 4-52 ,, 8-16 ,, Cheese . . . . 3-52 ,, 5 56 ,, Bacon and Hams 2-68 ,, 10‘25 ,, Eggs .... 14-38 number 30 -0 number At tlie same time our importation of meat has been enormously increasing during the last few years. Thus the value of dead meat and of animals has now l eached the annual amounts here quoted ;— f Dead Meat Animals 1887. 1889. £14,662,100 £18,601,309 6,346,727 10,360,807 Our fish Lastly, those who are interested in the national sujppiy supply of food must lament that, while Great Britain neglected. 11 J ... possesses perhaps the best opportunities m the world for securing a large and cheap supply of fish, she fails to attain it, and procures so little only, that it is to the great majority of the inhabitants an expensive luxury. Fish is a food of great value ; nevertheless it ought in this country to be one of the cheapest aliments, since production and growth cost absolutely nothing, only * Statesman's Tear Book, 1890, p. 82. And what might he the extra cost of obtaining this supply in time of war ?—a contingency we ought seriously to reckon on. We should then, perhaps, draw much more largely than we do at present on the enormous resources which exist on all our shores, referred to in the succeeding paragraph, f Statesman's Year Book, 1890, p. SI.Fish as an clement of Diet. 3 the expenses of catching, and of a short transport being incurred. This is a question which must sooner or later be solved by the public themselves, unless some persons in the trade, more enterprising than those who now pursue it, will abandon existing conventional rules and habits, and venture on the assuredly safe and pro- fitable enterprise of supplying fish good and fresh, at prices far lower than those which it is agreed shall rule at present. A very large proportion of our town population Fish would profit by exchanging some of their meat, as an article of daily diet, for fish. Where occupation is many, chiefly of an intellectual kind, and demands little physical exertion, fish is often much more suitable than butcher’s meat. Without active exercise in the open air, the digestive system is apt to become over- loaded and oppressed by meals consisting chiefly of meat; and even if the primary digestion of it is, in these circumstances, fairly accomplished, many a constitution suffers from an over-supply of nutritive matters, which cannot be disposed of easily without considerable habitual muscular activity. There is no doubt that the obvious and admitted value of a highly nitrogenous food, of which meat is a concentrated form, to the labouring man, has occasioned the almost universal belief that such meat, of which let beef and mutton be the type, is the most desirable food staple for all. “ If you wish to be strong, eat plenty of meat; ” “ If you are feeling weak, eat more meat, and at every meal; ” such are the well-known articles of a creed which is deeply graven in theo 2 Food and Feeding. and pre- ferable to flesh for the sedentary, for whom much fatty food is unde- sirable. Effect of muscular exercise, &c. popular mind. Nevertheless few statements relating to diet can be more misleading, and this is, as already intimated, one which gives rise to much serious ill health. It is this habit of adopting meat as the chief element of his dietary, which the sedentary man, with little opportunity for bodily exercise, the man who uses his brain more than his muscles, should especially avoid. Equally also should he abstain from fatty matters in large quantity, taking only a moderate proportion, which is not only permissible, hut to a small extent necessary. For if he habitually consumes these two classes of food freely, materials are introduced into the system which it cannot eliminate, and which must ultimately obstruct the function of some internal organ. Thus the periodical bilious attack, or the recurring fit of gout, or some other relentless tormentor, clears the system for a time of the offending matter which the daily error in diet is perpetually reproducing and accumulating. Those who are thus affected often endeavour to ward off their troubles by systematic muscular exercises, fencing, rowing, and the like, and they do so with a certain amount of success. It is for the purpose of getting rid of superfluous nutritive materials that others (who may be wholly unconscious of the need which impels them) secure their yearly shootings, make Alpine excursions, or seek the mineral springs of a foreign spa, more or less agreeable contrivances, all of them, for effecting the required elimination once or twice a year, but which would not be necessary had food suitable to a sedentary life only33, Advantages of a Fish Diet. been taken. On the other hand, the pleasurable pursuits named would—the proviso as to diet having- been obeyed—be more enjoyed for their own sake; and the considerable amount of training essential for the over-loaded constitution would not be a trouble- some preliminary. Many a man might indeed safely pursue a sedentary career, taking only a small amount of exercise, and yet maintain an excel- lent standard of health, if only he were careful that the “intake” in the form of diet corresponded The “ in- with the expenditure which his occupations, mental the^ 0ut-d and physical, demand. Let him by all means enjoy P^” his annual pastime, and profit by it, to rest his mind corre- and augment his natural forces, but not for the mere sP°nd* purpose of neutralising the evil effects of habitual dietetic wrong-doing. It is for this large and increasing class of the com- Fish diet munifcy, who are emphatically brain-workers, that fish ^^raia furnishes an appropriate food; and as the tendency of civilisation is slowly but surely to develop mental activity, and to dispense with laborious handicraft, a good supply of cheap fish becomes every day more important to the community. For the sedentary man, whatever his calling- in life, whose engagements permit him only to take just that moderate amount of muscular exercise which is in all circumstances essential to health; for a great proportion of women, whose engagements are incompatible with much activity in the open air, the nutritive elements afforded by fish admirably supply an important part of the wants of the body. The moderate amount of34 Food and Feeding. Changes in the diet- ary to be made by degrees. Fish diet and brain work, continued. flesh-forming material present in fish, and in a form which entails little labour on the digestive organs—• for most persons certainly less than meat—and the facility with which fish may ho associated with other elements—some fatty matters, with cereals and vege- tables, as well as fruits—place it in the first rank of foods in that mixed dietary which is suitable to those who lead more or less the kind of life referred to. I by no means say that it should supersede the use of meat altogether, although it may do so sometimes with advantage ; a point only to be determined in each individual instance after some observation and ex- periment. For in all cases, it is to be remembered that no man who has habitually eaten meat two or three times daily can at once exchange it for fish and cereals or vegetables, without some discomfort, to say the least. All radical changes in diet, even in the right direction, require to be gradually made; the stomach conforms slowly, when long accustomed to deal with highly nitrogenised animal food, to the task of deriving from unaccustomed materials the support necessary to the body. Given time for such modification of function, and it is remarkable—at least it appears so to those who have not practically studied the subject —that a diet which, if adopted suddenly might fail to be either digestible or nutritious, may become the most wholesome and appropriate which the individual can adopt. I may here advert to a belief which appears to be widely entertained, viz., that fish contains certain elements which adopt it in an especial manner to35 The Fare of the Agricultural Labourer. renovate the brain, and so to support mental labour. There is no foundation whatever for this view : the value of fish to the brain-worker is due simply to the fiicts already referred to, viz., that it contains, in smaller proportion than meat, those materials which, taken abundantly, demand much physical labour for their complete consumption, and which without this, produce an unhealthy condition of body, more or less incompatible with the easy and active exercise of the functions of the brain. Having enunciated some general principles, which The diet- it is important should first be established, I shall offer irking 6 brieflv an illustration or two of the manner in which man. «/ they may be applied. This brings us to the second division of the subject, viz., the practical treatment of certain aliments, in order to render them suitable for food. Dealing first with that of the agricultural labourer, our object is to economise his small pittance; to give him, if possible, a rather more nutritive, wholesome, and agreeable dish—and it is assumed that he can have but one—than his means have hitherto furnished. But here there is little scope for change; already said to live chiefly on bread and cheese, with occasionally bacon, two indications only for improvement can be followed, viz., augmentation of nitrogenous matter and of fatty matter, to support the body and to furnish heat and force. A fair pro- portion of meat, one of the best means of fulfilling them, is not within his reach. First, his daily Bread, bread ought to contain all the constituents of the wheat, instead of being made of flour from which36 Food and Feeding. Legumin- ous foods. The “ Erbs- wurst ” and its value. most of the mineral elements have been removed; a subject to be considered at some length hereafter (see p. 41). But beans and peas arc richer in nitrogen than wheat, and equal it in starch, mineral matters, and fat, the last being in very small quantity, while maize has three times their proportion of fat. Hence all of these would he useful additions to his dietary, being cheaper than wheat in the market, although, the retail demand being at present small, they may not he so in the small shops. As an illustration of the value of legumes combined with fat, it may he remem- bered how well the Erbswurst supported the work of the German armies during the winter of 1870-71, an instructive lesson for us in England at the present moment. It consisted of a well-cooked puree of peas, mixed with a certain proportion of bacon or lard, and dried so as to be portable, constituting in very small compass a perfect food, especially suitable for supporting muscular activity and exposure to cold. Better than any flesh, certainly any which could be transported with ease, the cost was not more than half that of ordinary meat. It was better also, because the form of the food is one in which the nutriment is readily acces- sible and easily digested; it was relished cold, or could be converted in a few minutes into good soup with boiling water. But for our labourer probably the best of the legumes is the haricot bean, red or white, the dried mature bean of the plant whoso pods we eat in the early green state as “French beans.”* For this * Wliat we call “French Leans’’maybe the product of several kindred varieties of the kidney Lean, dwarf or climbing, varying37 Various methods of cooking Haricots. purpose they may be treated thus : Soak, say, a quart of the dried haricots in cold water for about sixteen to Haricots, twenty-four hours, after which place them in a saucepan, with two quarts of cold water and a little salt, on the fire; when boiling remove to the corner and simmer slowly until the beans are tender; the time required being about at least three hours.* This quantity will fill a Various large dish, and maybe eaten with salt and pepper, cooking3 °f It will be greatly improved at small cost by the addi- tion of a bit of butter, or of melted butter with parsley, or if an onion or two have been sliced and stewed with the haricots. A better dish still may be made by putting all or part, after boiling, into a shallow frying pan, and lightly frying for a few minutes with a little lard and some sliced onions. With a few slices of bacon added, a comparatively luxurious and highly nutritive meal may be made. But there is still in the saucepan, after boiling the haricots, a resi- due of value, which the French peasant’s wife, who turns everything to account, utilises in a manner quite incomprehensible to the Englishwoman. The water in which dried haricots have stewed, and also that in which green French beans have been boiled, according to locality and soil, and distributed over a very large part of Europe. When gathered early, before it is fully grown, the bean is green, like a green pea, and forms an admirable dish, known in France as flageolets. When the ordinary French beans (immature green pods) are mixed in about equal proportions with the flageolets, the dish, which is a very palatable one, is well known in France as haricots verts panaches (variegated), and might be served at eur tables with advantage. * If the water is hard, a little soda should be added to soften it.The finest haricots; their place at well- furnished tables. Food and Feeding. <_> contains a proportion of nutritive matter. The French- woman preserves this liquor carefully, cuts and fries some onions, adds to it these and some thick slices of bread, a little salt and pepper, with a potherb or two from the corner of the garden, and thus serves liot an agreeable and useful oroide an pot. It ought to be added that the haricots so largely used by the working classes throughout Europe arc not precisely either “ red ” or “ white,” but some cheaper local varieties, known as haricots du pays. These are now supplied here at about twopence a pound, and in large quantity might be obtained at a somewhat cheaper rate, their quality as food being not inferior to other kinds. But haricots—let them be the fine white Soissons— are good enough to be welcome at any table. A roast leg or shoulder of mutton should be garnished by a pint boiled as just directed, lying in the gravy of the dish; and some persons think that, with a good supply of the meat gravy, and a little salt and pepper, the haricots are by no means the worst part of the mutton.” Then with a smooth puree of mild onions, which have been previously sliced, fried brown, and stewed, served freely as sauce, our leg of mutton and haricots become the cjiyot d la hretonne well known to all lovers of wholesome and savoury cookery. Next, white haricots stewed until soft, made into a rather thick puree, deli- cately flavoured by adding a small portion of white puree of onions (not browned by frying as in the pre- ceding sauce), produce an agreeable garnish for the centre of a dish of small cutlets, or an entree of fowl, &c. Again, the same haricot puree blended with a39 Various methods of cooking Haricots, veal stock, well flavoured with fresh vegetables, fur- Haricot nishes au admirable and nutritious white soup. The E°UpS’ red haricots, in like manner, with a beef stock make a superlative brown soup, technically known as potage d la Conde, and usually served with small fried croutons. If, instead of meat, we employ a good vegetable stock, agreeably flavoured with carrot, turnip, onion, and savoury herbs, a first-rate soup maigre is produced. When, in place of meat, a broth chiefly made from game—especially from the remains of a hare, the prime parts of which have been consumed at table— is thickened with red haricot puree, the result is an excellent soup, which in texture and in flavour would an<J ?^er by many persons not be distinguishable from a common comtana- puree of game itself. A hint for those who dotlons* not despise economy in cuisine, when the value of the product is unquestionable. Stewed haricots also furnish, when cold, an admirable salad, improved by adding slices of tomato, &c., the oil supplying the one element in which the bean is deficient; and a perfectly nutritious food is produced for those who can digest it—and they are numerous—in this form. The same dietetic principle, it may be observed, has, al- though empirically, produced the well-known dishes of beans and bacon, ham and green peas, boiled pork and pease-pudding, all of them old and popular but scientific combinations. Thus also the French, serv- ing petits pois as a separate dish, add butter freely and a dash of sugar, the former making the compound phy- siologically complete, the latter agreeably heightening the natural sweetness of the vegetable, especially whenFood and Feeding. 40 Nutri- tious value of. Remarks on meal bread. the peas are a little old, insipid, or have lost their accustomed flavour. Let me recall, at the close of these few hints about the haricot, the fact, that there is no product of the vegetable kingdom so nutritious; holding its own in this respect, as it well can, even against the beef and mutton of the animal kingdom. The haricot ranks just above lentils, which have been so much praised of late, and rightly, the haricot being also to most palates more agreeable. By most stomachs, too, haricots are more easily digested than meat is; and, consuming weight for weight, the eater feels lighter and less oppressed, as a rule, after the leguminous dish; while the comparative cost is very greatly in favour of the latter. I do not of course overlook in the dish of simple haricots the absence of savoury odours proper to well-cooked meat: but nothing is easier than to combine one part of meat with two parts of haricots, adding vegetables and garden herbs, so as to produce a stew which shall be more nutritious, wholesome, and palatable than a stew of all meat with vegetables and no haricots. Moreover, the cost of the latter will bo more than double that of the former. I have just adverted to the bread of the labourer, and recommended that it should be made from entire wheat meal; but it should not be too coarsely ground. Extreme coarseness in “wholewheat meal,” as it is usually termed, is a condition designed to exert a specific effect on the digestion for those who need it, and, useful as it is in its place, is not desirable for the average population referred to. At the same4i Whole wheat meal, and its Value. time, no portion of the liusk of the grain should he removed from the wheat when ground, whether Reason coarsely or finely, into meal. That a partial removalfor nc4 is systematically advocated by some as an improve- the husk, ment, is one of the numerous illustrations of the modern and almost universal craze which just now exists among food purveyors of almost every descrip- tion, for eliminating all inert or innutritious matter from the food we eat. This extraordinary care to employ nothing in our diet but matter which has nutritive value, that is, can be absorbed into the system, is founded upon want of elementary know- ledge of the first principles of digestion ; and yet, strange to say, the mistaken, indeed mischievous, practice is supported, probably for want of thought, by many who ought to know better. It seems now to be almost overlooked that no Value of proper action of the intestines can take place unless a terrin^ very considerable quantity of inert matter is present in our daily food, existing as material which cannot be digested. By this character we are not to suppose that it is in the least degree “indigestible” in the sense of that term when employed to signify “ difficult diges- tion,” but only that it passes unchanged through the body, neither receiving nor exciting any action. When there is a considerable proportion of this in the food, the bowels can act daily and regularly, having a mass which they can transmit. When, on the other hand, the food is so “ nutritious ” as to be almost entirely absorbed, there is very little solid to transmit, and the action of the bowels is infrequent, irregular, ' GFood and Feeding. 42 Best form for baking. Receipt for whole- meal cakes, using baking powder and unsatisfactory. This is, in fact, a very extensively recognisable cause of a great deal of the habitual constipation so prevalent among the middle classes at the present time. To return to the subject of coarse wheat meal, let me observe that it docs not readily produce light agreeable bread when made in the form of ordinary loaves: a solid mass of this meal being a bad conductor of heat, will have a hard flinty crust if baked sufficiently to cook the interior; or it will have a soft dough-like interior, if the baking is checked when the crust is properly done. Consequently the form of a flat cake, resembling that of the ordinary tea-cake, is preferable, about I t inch, or at most 1£ inch thick, since it admits of the right amount of heat operating equally throughout the mass. The following receipts will be found successful, pro- bably after a trial or two, in producing excellent, light, friable, and most palatable bread in the form recommended. The first directs the mode of making it with baking powder.—Take two pounds of coarsely-ground whole wheat meal, and add half a pound of fine flour, or, better still, the same weight, or more if preferred, of fine Scotch oatmeal. Mix thoroughly with a sufficient quantity of baking powder and a little salt; then rub in two ounces of butter and make into dough—using a wooden spoon—with cold skimmed milk or milk and water, soft in consistence, so that it can almost be poured into the tin ring, which gives it form when baked. In this manner it is to be quickly made intoA Receipt for whole-meal Cakes. 43 flat cakes (like tea-cakes), and baked on a tin, the rings used being about an inch high and seven or eight inches in diameter, each enclosing a cake. Put them without delay into a quick oven at the outset, letting them be finished thoroughly, at a lower temperature.* If made with yeast, which is for general purposes With preferable, when either good German or the fresh yeast' home product can be obtained, add the necessary quantity to the dough, made as above directed with the two meals, butter, salt, and warm milk and water ; make the cakes and put them on the tin with their rings, and set near the fire to rise, which they will do in an hour or little under. Then bake in a medium oven in the same way as for any other fermented bread. When yeast is used and not baking powder, a medium coarse oatmeal may be added to the wheat meal instead of fine oatmeal, which is necessary in the foregoing receipt. The butter and milk supply fatty matter in which the wheat is somewhat deficient; all the saline and mineral matters of the husk are retained; and thus a more nutritive form of bread cannot be made, combined with a desirable proportion of inert matter. * The following is a simple and excellent formula for “baking powder ; ” one which has been long used for this and other purposes. It may be obtained at any chemist’s and in any quantity, based on the following proportions : Tartaric acid, 2 ozs. Bicarbonate of soda, 3 ozs. Common arrowroot, 3 ozs. Mix well; place in a wide-mouthed corked bottle, and keep perfectly dry.44 Food and Feeding. Domestic mills for grinding wheat. The com- bination of ele- ments necessary for a “perfect” food. Moreover, it retains the natural flavour of the wheat, in place of the insipidity which is characteristic of fine flour, although it is indisputable that bread produced from the latter, especially at Paris and Vienna, is un- rivalled for delicacy, texture, and colour. Whole wheat meal may now be bought in most towns, hut by no means always in such perfect condition as it ought to be. When it cannot he obtained, a useful corn mill, the cutting part to he made of steel, is now constructed cheaply for home use ; the best white wheat should be procured, and the grain can be ground so as to supply a meal of any degree of coarseness desired.* Further examples are unnecessary here, although it would be an easy task to fill a volume with matter of this kind, illustrating the ample means which exist for diminishing somewhat the present wasteful use of “ butchers’ meats ” with positive advantage to the con- sumer. Many facts in support of this position will appear as we proceed. But another important object in furnishing the foregoing details is to point out how combinations of the nitrogenous, starchy, fatty, and mineral elements may be made, in well-proportioned mixtures, so as to produce what I have termed a “ perfect” dish—perfect, that is, so far as the chief in- dication is concerned, viz., one which supplies every demand of the body, without containing any one element in undue proportion. For it is obvious that one or two of these elements may exist in injurious * Kent & Co., the well-known makers of domestic appliances, in High Holborn, supply such mills.45 Cheese as Food. excess, especially for delicate stomachs, the varied peculiarities of which, as before insisted on, must sometimes render necessary a modification of all rules. Thus it is easy to make the fatty constituent too large, and thereby derange digestion, a result frequently Result of experienced by persons of sedentary habits, to whom a portion of" little pastry, a morsel of foie gras, or a rich cream is a one Re- source of great discomfort, or of a “ bilious attack ; ” while the outdoor labourer, who requires much fatty material for his work, would have no difficulty in consuming a large quantity of such compounds with advantage. Nitrogenous matter also is commonly supplied at all middle-class tables beyond the eater’s wants; and if more is consumed than can he used for the purposes which such aliment subserves, it must he eliminated in some way from the system ; and pro- bably, as we have seen, by some uncomfortable method. Cheese as a supplement to bread is largely used by Cheese the labouring man, especially in agricultural districts, for9 It is a food well adapted to his wants; while labourer, his digestion, unlike that of many a factory operative who works under cover, generally deals with it easily. Cheese is one of the most concentrated forms of nitro- genous food, and admirably supports hard labour in the open air. Thus it is that Swiss guides and Use mountaineers always demand a good supply of cheese Mountain- and butter among the provisions when a long day’s eers' work is planned. When taken at the end of a full meal as a savoury morsel, the flavour only is required, and the quantity should be small. Many - personsFood and Feeding. 46 Improved by cook- ing. The peasant’s “ cheese- fondu.” Mattieu Williams’ sugges- tion. whose daily life affords little opportunity for muscular activity find cheese, at all events when uncooked, not easily digestible. And when such do employ it as an article of food, it should be regarded as taking the place of meat, which is not so rich in nitrogen. Mr. Mattieu Williams has some good remarks on this subject,* from which it appears that when properly cooked, cheese is probably more easily assimilated by an ordinary stomach, than when eaten in the raw condition. The well-known “ cheese fondu ” is an example. Here is the Swiss peasant’s form as he gives it, and of the dish thus produced he speaks highly, from observation as well as from personal experience, in relation to its sustainiug power, and its right to form the staple dish of a substantial meal, appropriately adding:—“ it is rather too good—over- nutritious—for a man only doing sedentary work.” Mix grated cheese and eggs beaten as for an omelette, adding a little new milk or butter. Place the mixture in a saucer-shaped pan which stands the fire, over which it is to be gently cooked, stirring well until the whole is dissolved, and the mixture is homo- geneous ; serve it in the pan, and eat it with a good supply of bread, and with salt and mustard to taste. Mr. Williams further suggests that a small quantity of bicarbonate of potash may be added with advantage to the ingredients before cooking—say 15 or 20 grains for a dish sufficing for two persons. It appears to * The Chemistry of Food, by Mattieu Williams. Chatto & Windus, London, 1885 (pp. 135-40).47 Rice, and its combinations in Food. facilitate solution of the casein, and at all events cannot be an unwholesome addition. Indeed, as he observes, it supplies potash salts, which are naturally present in meat, hut which are wanting in cheese. By adding bread crumbs, or slices of bread, and more milk, an excellent savoury pudding may be made, and baked in a pie-dish, or in a shallower one if pre- ferred. This preparation may be easily rendered an elegant one for other tables if required. Quitting the subject of wheat and the leguminous Rice as seeds, it will be interesting to review briefly thefood' combinations of rice, which furnishes so large a portion of the world with a vegetable staple of diet. Remembering that it contains chiefly starch, with nitrogen in small proportion, and almost no fat or mineral elements, and just sufficing perhaps with a small quantity of the former, to meet the wants of an inactive population in a tropical climate, the first addition necessary for the people who dwell on the temperate margin of this limit, and just beyond it, will be a notable proportion of fat, and, with it a little addition of nitrogen. Hence an illus- tration of one of the first efforts to make a dish of rice “ complete ” is afforded by the addition of butter and a little Parmesan cheese, in the simple risotto, Needful from which, as a starting point, improvement, both for nutritive purposes and for the demands of the risotto, palate, may be carried to any extent (see p. 111). Fresh additions are made in the shape of marrow, of morsels of liver, &c., of meat broth with onion and spice, which constitute the mixture, when well pre-48 Food and Feeding. as a pilaff, polio con arroz. Maize. Polenta. pared, nutritious and highly agreeable. The analogue of this mainly Italian dish is the pilau or pilaff of the orientals, consisting, as it chiefly does, of rice lightly boiled in the broth of a fowl: a basis susceptible of various slight modifications and additions (see p. 112)> The curry of rabbit or of poultry and the kedgeree of fish are further varieties which it is unnecessary to describe. Following the same combination to Spain, we find it a popular national dish, not greatly differing from the foregoing, in the polio con arroz, which consists of abundance of rice, stewed with a little broth and containing morsels of fowl, bacon, and sausage, with appetising, spices, and sufficing for an excellent meal. Another farinaceous product of world-wide use is the maize or Indian corn. With a fair amount of nitrogen, starch, and mineral elements, it contains also a good proportion of fat, and is made into bread, cakes, and puddings of various kinds. It is complete, but susceptible of improvement by the addition of nitrogen. ITence in the United States, where it is largely used, it is often eaten with beans, under the name of “ succotash.” In Italy it is ground into the beautiful yellow flour which is conspicuous in the streets of almost every town ; when made into a firm paste, by boiling in water, and sprinkled with Parmesan cheese, a nitrogenous aliment, it becomes what is known as polenta, and is largely consumed with some relish in the shape of fried fish, sardines, sausage, little birds, or morsels of fowl or goose, by which of course fresh nitrogen is added. Macaroni has been49 Potato, and combinations as food. already alluded to in connection with wheat, from which it is made; although rich in nitrogenous and starchy materials, it is deficient in fat. Hence it is boiled and eaten with butter and Parmesan (aV Italienne) and with tomatoes, which furnish saline matters, with meat gravy or with milk (see pp. 109-10). Nearer home the potato forms a vegetable basis in The composition closely resembling rice, and requiring potato therefore additions of nitrogenous and fatty elements. The Irishman’s inseparable ally, the pig, is the natural, and to him necessary, complement of the tuber, making the latter a complete and palatable dish. The every- requires day combination of mashed potato and sausage is an matter, application of the same principle. In the absence of pork, the potato eater substitutes a cheap oily fish, the herring. The combination of fatty material with the potato is still further illustrated in our baked potato and butter, in fried potatoes in their endless variety of form, in potato mashed with milk or cream, also served in the ordinary way with maitre cVhotel butter; finally arriving at the most perfect and finished combination in theywwmes de terre sautees ciu beurre of a first-class French restaurant, where it becomes almost a pat de luxe. Even the simple bread and butter or bread and Bread cheese of our own country equally owTe their form and jju^ter^r popularity to physiological necessity ; the deficient fat cheese, of the bread being supplemented by the fatty elements of each addition, the cheese supplying also its propor- tion of nitrogenous matter, which exists so largely in its peculiar principle, caseine. So again, all the suet puddings, “short cake,” plum cakes, pic-crust, or n50 Food and Feeding. pastry, whether baked or boiled, which consist simply of farinaceous food rendered stronger nutriment by the addition of fatty matter ; are illustrations of the same principle practically applied by their inventors, without the slightest consciousness that they were fulfilling a natural and essential law of life. In the same way almost every national dish might be analysed, up to the pot-au-feu of our neighbours, the right management of which combines the nutritious quality of flesh with the abundant aroma and flavour of fresh vegetables which enter so largely into this economical and excellent mess (see pp. 92-3). Among the poorer classes this dish is, of course, intended to supplement a considerable quantity of bread. All the It will be apparent that, up to this point, our esti- mate of the value of these combinations has been limited, or almost so, by their physiological complete- ness as foods, and by their economical value in relation to the resources of that great majority of all popula- tions, which is poor. But when the inexorable neces- sity for duly considering economy has been complied with, the next aim is to render food as easily digestible as possible, and agreeable to the senses of taste, smell, and sight. The hard labourer with simple diet, provided his aliment is complete and fairly well cooked, will suffer little from indigestion. He cannot be guilty, for want of means, of eating too much, fertile source of deranged stomach with those who have an unlimited supply; physical labour being also in many circumstances the best preventive of dyspepsia. “ Live on sixpence a U1SUCS Hit the simplest forms of “ com- plete ” food.5i Food not only to be cheap, but agreeable. day and earn it,” attributed to Abernethy as the sum of bis dietary for a gluttonous eater, is a maxim of value, endorsed by millions. But for the numerous sedentary workers in shops, offices, in business and professions of all kinds, the dish must not only be “ complete;” it must be so prepared as to be easily digestible by stomachs of moderate power, and it should also be as appetising and agreeable as circum- stances admit.CHAPTER IV. Milk, an example of a natural “complete” food—Its employment as food, almost universal—Essentially an animal food—Ex- ceedingly susceptible of injury—Mode of distribution, a fertile source of disease—Milk epidemics of fever, &c.—Composition of milk—Value as a diet—Wliey—Koumiss—Means to be adopted in order to secure tlie purity and wholesomeness of milk. The term “ complete,” as we have seen in the fore- going chapter, is employed to denote that the food so designated contains all the elements necessary to the support of the body, and to the activity of its functions. Most commonly, such nourishment is a compound of two or more animal or vegetable substances, combined in order to afford the various elements necessary to Milk is meet all the demands of animal life. But there is a ah“ com 01 no^a^e example of a single animal product, perhaps piete ” the best which can he offered as a complete food ; one provided prepared by nature, furnished in great abundance, and by nature, which we are all well acquainted with, namely, milk. It is a product which slightly varies in different species of the mammalian family. That form which we are most familiar with is the milk of the cow, and it may he taken as the type. It constitutes so large and so valuable a part of the food of man in temperate climates, that some account of it is desirable here, par- ticularly as the subject is rapidly growing in interest53 Importance of pi ere Milk. and importance, and as the popular knowledge respect- ing it is veiy imperfect. I have said that the subject of milk is growing in importance; this is true on the following grounds. First, because it is essential to the well-being of young children to have milk which is produced of excellent quality at its source; and secondly, it is equally neces- sary that it should not be adulterated, or otherwise injured in the processes of transit and distribution. Meantime, as our population grows more dense, sources of contamination increase, and the task of obtaining an absolutely pure supply is more difficult. Very much more is contained in these simple statements than is at first discerned by the popular eye. Before making further comments thereupon, let us recall the fact that, excepting only the article of wheaten bread, milk is perhaps the most universally employed food in this country. And I am not quite sure that the exception made above is correctly stated to be so. Every man, woman, and child in the king- dom, with few exceptions, consume milk in some form at least once or twice daily; while for the youngest part of the community, during the most critical stage of early growth, milk forms the chief and the best source of nourishment. Now it is to be remembered in connection with these striking facts, that milk is a complex animal food, and one which so rapidly decom- poses, that in hot weather a few hours suffice to injure it materially. Moreover, it is extremely liable to con- tamination if exposed to impure atmospheric influ- ences, &c. But the most serious danger connected Exceed- ingly im- portant to ensure a pure supply, because every one is a daily consumer. It decom- poses rapidly,54 Food and Feeding. and is very liable to become tainted; to trans- mit the germs of disease by admix- ture with sewage matters. with milk as food is associated with the vast daily process of distribution necessary in order to convey the product from the cow to the consumer. No doubt that water is wilfully added in some small quantity to a large proportion of the supply in order to cheapen it; hut where this is not done, all the vessels em- ployed in dairy operations are more or less carefully and completely washed twice a day. It is this contact with water, employed by no means always, as it ought to be, at the boiling point, which constitutes the milk trade a ready and unceasing agency for the spread of three or four forms of disease among the population. It is only within the last few years that we have be- come aware that one of the chief methods by which typhoid fever, scarlet fever, and diphtheria are propa- gated, is by the agency of this great organization which conveys the daily milk from the cow to every house in the empire. Water which contains the smallest admixture of sewage matter is naturally, amidst the innumerable chances afforded, now and then contaminated with the excreta of persons suffer- ing from infectious disease; and thus, in its very em- ployment for cleansing milk vessels, the seeds of fatal disease may be deposited in a single milk can, from which twenty families, say, are supplied. It is foolish, or worse, wilfully to shut our eyes to this, and similar sources of danger to the community, which are asso- ciated with the growth of population, or to affect, after the fashion of certain teachers, that it is the part of wisdom to take the chances of life as it comes, and deliberately to avoid knowledge of its risks,55 Propagation of Fever by Milk. although that knowledge alone can render them harm- less and make life secure, healthful, and enjoyable. Had such counsel been listened to by our fore- Milk kas fathers, the mortality from fever might still be in this largely country what it was forty years ago; moreover, we nated know that the cause now in question, like every other t5rPhoid- cause of fever, is a removable one, if reasonable pre- cautions are taken. It was greatly due to the late Dr. Murchison, and to Mr. Ernest Hart, who more than anyone has studied this subject exhaustively, that a well- thc great epidemic of typhoid fever in the parish of Marylebone, in 1873, was traced to a single case at a tion. country farm which supplied milk to a dairy in that parish; directly occasioning no less than 218 cases of fever among the customers of that dairy, of whom twenty-six died. From these a vast number of other cases arose, how many could never by any inquiry be correctly estimated. During the succeeding ten years no less than eighty-one (separate) epidemics were similarly traced in various parts of this country to milk distribution.* The foregoing brief statements suffice to show the importance of the dairy and its products, in connec- tion with the subject of food, even when considered apart from the question of their dietetic value. I Composi- shall next proceed to describe the composition and ^°lk>of * See an admirable and very concise account of the subject in a paper read at a meeting of the Social Science Congress, at Hudders- field, October, 1883, by Mr. Ernest Hart, and entitled, “Is it desirable to take any, and what, further measures to prevent the spread of Zymotic Diseases through the Milk Supply of our Towns?” (London : Smith, Elder & Co.)Food and Feeding. 56 o The solids, Specific gravity. Considera- tion in relation to. characteristics of good milk, adding some remarks on its use as diet, and then indicate the practical mode in which those who are interested in obtaining it unadulterated and uncontaminated may attain their object. Of good cow’s milk, nearly one seventh part by weight is solid matter, the remainder is water. Of this seventh part, rather more than a third is “lactose” or milk-sugar; rather less than a third is “ casein,” the basis of cheese; rather more than a fourth is “ milk-fat,” or cream ; the small remainder being salts or mineral matter. The foregoing propor- tions are sufficiently correct for ordinary purposes, and are easily remembered. A more exact analysis is given here of the proportions in 100 parts of milk by weight. Water SG'5 Solids— Milk fat or cream . . 3 '9 Casein or albuminoid . 4 '2 Milk sugar, or lactose . . 4 "6 Salts .... -8 -—- 13 5 100 0 The specific gravity is generally about 1030 to 1033, at 60° Fah.; but specific gravity alone cannot be regarded as an exact test of quality, since the quan- tity of cream varies with different specimens; and as cream is of lighter specific gravity than milk, a speci- men of the latter which is extremely rich in cream, other ingredients being the same, will weigh lighter than one which is deficient in cream. But that a57 Value of Milk easily tested. sample of milk exceptionally rich in cream should he AlR°,un.t of l %/ solids is offered for sale, although hypothetically possible, must the mea- be regarded as practically impossible in the last degree. ®°f The nutritive value of milk corresponds of course with the aggregate amount of all the solids contained, and for all purposes of the consumer, the specific gravity corresponds with that amount, the figure rising as the solids are augmented. The specific gravity of unadulterated milk furnished by different healthy cows may be regarded as ranging between 1027 and 1035. But the mixed product of several such cows equals at least 1030 or 1031. If the milk furnished hv any dealer is persistently below 1030, there is ground for complaint on the part of the customer ; and I think it may be said that any metro- politan dairy of repute will furnish an uniform supply of milk decidedly above 1030. Nevertheless, there is a large quantity sold by the small dealers to the poor, of which the specific gravity is no more than 1025 or 1026. Nothing, however, is easier than to ascertain the real value of any sample which the purchaser desires to test. A lactometer may be bought for 2s. Gel.: it Use of . . ° # the lac- is only necessary to float it in a jug of milk, and the tometer. figure on its scale which is level with the surface of the milk is the specific gravity; the temperature should be about 60° Fah. Where an exact analysis is required, as for example, ^agnt ° to determine the question of fining a fraudulent dealer, must the value of the sample has to be found, by ascertain- tlie ques_ ing the amount of solids present, apart from the cream, j^lt°efra and estimating the latter separately. tion by t water.Food and Feeding. 58 soUdsnt °f ^1G Society Public Analysts requires a mini- necessary. mum of “nine per cent, of solids, not fat;” and any sample which does not reach that amount has almost invariably been adulterated with water, and the seller of it is liable to a fine. But “ nine per cent.” is a low standard, determined on to avoid the infliction of hardship on any small dealer who may have been supplied from the country with a genuine, though exceptionally poor milk, of which the solids did not exceed nine per cent. ; and it may probably yet be altered. Hence vast quantities of milk which are sold every day at that standard, contain a good deal of added water. The standard of the best metro- politan dairies, whose interest it is to supply unadul- terated milk, is always higher. Milk is Milk is essentially the food of the growing animal. growing°f Supplied by nature for the rapid development of the animals, young calf, it is, with a little modification, admirably adapted for our young children. It is excellent food, too, for some adults; by no means for all. Those who take much exercise, or follow laborious occupations, may make it a useful portion of their dietary. It is rarely suitable for sedentary persons, or for those who Notneces- have reached the latter stage of life when the powers always diminish, and the habits become less active than hereto- suitabie fore> As a qrinp at meal time, it is for the most part to the . . . r adult. undesirable ; for liquids taken with solid food need not be nutritious, indeed are better not to be so: they are rather required to dilute and dissolve the latter; nutritive material being for the most part abundantly supplied by the solid constituents of a meal.Milk as drink: Whey : Koumiss. 59 Milk forms a more suitable form of drink wlien the whey, fat has been removed, when in short it has been skimmed. If the casein is also taken out, as in cheese- making, the whey, which now contains little besides the sugar and the salts, is a very wholesome beverage, when fresh. Milk may be fermented also, and an agreeable light effervescing drink results, known as Koumiss, and largely used in Russian Tartary, where Koumiss, it is made chiefly from the milk of the mare, which slightly differs from that of the cow. The latter, how- ever, is now treated here in the same way, and is in no respect inferior ; it is widely recognised as useful in some chronic complaints, and is becoming increasingly popular. In order to ensure unadulterated and uncontami- Precau- nated milk, it is necessary to adopt habitually certain ensure° precautions, or the probability of obtaining that which purity; is impure at some time or another, during the long array of chances which life affords, is not inconsider- able. This fact makes it desirable that the milk trade should be subjected to official sanitary supervision. For the present the following hints for guidance may be useful. First. In country districts, where the consumer is Drainage commonly supplied direct from the farm, it should be ascertained that the dairy is completely detached from farm, all the drains of the house and yards, and that the well used for dairy washing should be uncontaminated by sewage. It should be an absolute rule that all Dairy ves- vessels are scalded once a day at least with boiling boiling1 water, water,Food and Feeding,. 6o No milk to be used when in- fectious disease occurs at the dairy farm. Milk obtained from doubtful sources to be boiled. Obtain milk from distri- butors of high repute. Secondly. When in such districts infectious disease occurs in the dairy farm, no milk should be distributed on any pretext, until the sources of infection have disappeared. Thirdly. When doubt exists as to the source of milk, as during a fever epidemic, and no milk abso- lutely beyond suspicion is to be had, it should be well boiled before it is used as food, by which process it is rendered safe. Some of those who have most studied the subject, are so impressed with its importance, and especially in relation to the interests of the family, as to advise that all milk should be thoroughly boiled before it is consumed. They believe that it is wise to regard milk as a raw food, undesirable, on the grounds above stated, for human consumption, until it has been cooked. Continental travellers will do well to take it in this form, and as it is always thus served for ccife-au-lait abroad, there is no difficulty in obtain- ing it at any time. Fourthly. In all large towns and in the metropolis, milk should be obtained solely from some extensive organization of high repute, well known to have made it an absolute principle of its business to distribute milk solely from sources which are held under vigilant supervision by a competent person. Moreover, every can of milk received from the country for distribution should be examined for quality, before being delivered to the public. This is a mode of proceeding w'hich is now thoroughly understood and practised, at least in London ; and there is no real difficulty in adopting such precautions, as well as others not less important,Means to secure pure Milk. 6 r as has been practically proved for several years, at least by one great institution, on a large scale, in this metropolis. For the present, it is incumbent on every housekeeper who regards the health of his family, to exercise caution after the manner here indicated. At no distant period, all country dairies from whence milk is sent away for sale, as well as the public milk- shops held by dealers in towns, will, without doubt, be subject to official inspection, and be regulated by sanitary enactments. In the accomplishment of this ceaseless task of milk distribution, almost nothing- can be done by any single individual to avert the dangers to which carelessness and misfortune expose him; while well-devised arrangements of the nature suggested may render him almost secure.CHAPTER Y. Food of the middle-class Englishman — Boiling — Principles of applying heat — High and low temperatures — The “Bain Marie”—Warren’s cooking pot—The Norwegian cooking apparatus—German process—Atkinson’s American oven— Roasting—Baking—Broiling—Braising, methods of—Stewing —Bceuf a la mode—Opposite principles in French and English cookery—Superiority of each in some particulars—Frying, and its action on materials of food—The omelette. Indiffer- ence to cookery among middle classes. On questioning the average middle-class English- man as to the nature of his food, the all hut universal answer is, “ My living is plain, always roast and boiled ”—words which but too clearly indicate the dreary monotony, not to say unwholesomeness, of his daily food ; while they furthermore express his satis- faction, such as it is, that he is no luxurious feeder, and that, in his opinion, he has no right to suffer from an indigestion. Joints of beef and mutton, of which we all know the very shape and changeless odours, follow one another at his table in the same unvarying order, six roast to one boiled, and have done so ever since he began to keep house some five-and-twenty years ago! I am not sanguine enough to suppose that this uniform routine, which rules the dietary of the great majority of British families of moderate and even of ample means, will be disturbed by any sugges- tions of mine. Nevertheless, in some younger house-Roast and Boiled’. 6 e> holds, where habits, gradually forming through the force of example, have not yet hardened into law, there may be a disposition to adopt a healthier diet and a more grateful variety of aliment. And this, it may be safely affirmed, will probably not be dis- covered by any researches for new forms of animal food. Often as the lament has been uttered, that • some hitherto unknown product in the shape of meat or bird, cultivated or wild, is not to be found, seeing that the butcher’s shop affords so small a range for choice, it is not from such a source that wholesome and pleasing additions to the table will be obtained. But the consideration of variety, and the method of “Roast attaining it, will occupy us hereafter. At present we n must deal with the “ Roast and Boiled ” already referred to. These are, in fact, the Alpha and Omega, not as two terminal items in a series, but as constituting the sum total of the culinary forces known to our respected paterfamilias, excepting that he may, perhaps, admit with more or less hesitating approval, that the frying-pan, as a kitchen utensil, is certainly not to be entirely forgotten. But of these processes, the principles which govern their application, and the elementary rules of the art in making it, he knows nothing, having never felt interest therein. His cook probably knows little ignorance more. She learned by “ rule of thumb,” and has principles always found its light suffice for the limited require- of cookery, ments hitherto made on her powers in such service. When she has to prepare one of the aforesaid joints, whether by “boiling” or by “roasting,” it hasFood and Feeding. 64 probably never occurred, to her to enquire what temperature the meat should attain in order to achieve her purpose, by either method; nor, to tell the truth, was she ever curious about the matter. And there are not many mistresses w7ho could inform her respecting the principles referred to, whatever familiarity they may possess with the practice of the No true culinary art. But an acquaintance with principles art with- tends largely to facilitate the perfect exercise of all standing art; hence I shall very briefly sketch those which them, should, be known, and. are happily now being taught to the pupils who pass through a really efficient school of cookery. Completely ignored, by all the old yet rarely kitchen manuals and receipt books, being, in fact, exlmanied im"known to their writers, they are equally wanting in uais. some of the most popular modern guides to cooking. A few teachers and. authors have learned to insist on their importance and expound them ; but these are at present exceptions to the rule. We will, therefore, very briefly consider how the cooking of meat is accomplished :—first, by heat applied through water —commonly called “ boiling,”—and secondly, the cooking of it by heated dry air, and by heat through radiation, in other words, the methods known as “baking,” “roasting,” and “broiling.” Cooking of The cooking of meat by means of hot water: meat by . “boiling.” Water “boils” when heated to 212° at or “boil- the sea level; but for all practical purposes of cookery ins' a much lower temperature suffices to cook meat thoroughly, as we shall learn hereafter: “ boiled meat,” being in fact, never itself boiled. A manifestCooking Flesh in Heated Water. 65 reduction in the heat of boiling water may be noted at every 1,000 feet of elevation; thus in mountain climbing it is quite possible to reach a height at which water boils when not sufficiently hot even to cook an egg efficiently, which can be done at 180°. Now in the culinary treatment of flesh of all kinds, Twomoie3 and of fish, by water, the object to be attained by the cooking process must first be distinctly apprehended. If from meat; a given portion of flesh it is desired to extract as much of the soluble portions as possible, as for the purpose of making soup or beef tea, the course pursued will be directly opposite to that which is necessary when the object is to prepare the portion for a dish to be consumed at the table. In the latter case we retain all the nutritive and sapid qualities within the portion, leaving none or very little in the water used for cooking. In the former case we leave the flesh, if possible, exhausted of flavour and nourishing juices, nearly all of which we desire to find in the water employed. The principle rc-lied on to accomplish our aim in depending each case is based on the fact that the albumen, °f heaTon which pervades both flesh and fish, is fluid and albumen, soluble at low temperatures, suppose we say from 60° to 120° or 130° Fahr., while it becomes solidified and insoluble at temperatures of 160° and upwards. Hence, if we desire to realize the first-named object, for stock soup or beef tea, some meat previously cut 1, For fine is macerated for two or three hours in cool or beef tea» tepid water, after which not only the bulk of the nutritive matter referred to as albumen, but other valu-66 Food and Feeding. 2, for cooking a joint, commence with boil- ing; then a con- tinuous lower tem- perature. Experi- ment to ascertain able constituents, “ extractives,” and salts, will be found dissolved in the liquid also. See the process for making beef tea, which will be found in the Appendix. If, on the contrary, we desire to retain within the portion, say a leg of mutton, all its nutritive quality and its natural flavour, for a dish at table, the joint is to be immersed in a capacious pot of boiling water, to which a little salt has been added, in order at once to solidify, or coagulate as it is usually termed, the albumen which pervades the outer layer of the meat. The result of about seven minutes’ exposure to this temperature, upwards of 212°, as the addition of salt demands a higher temperature for boiling than plain water, is equivalent to enclosing the meat in an impervious casing, which effectually prevents the escape of albumen and flavouring matters into the water hereafter, however long the joint remains there. When the water has boiled for about seven minutes, nothing will be gained by maintaining that high temperature : it is on the contrary rather injurious than otherwise. The meat will be in better condition at table if the pot is removed a little from the fire, so that a temperature a few degrees below boiling is sustained for the usually necessary period of time required, which, of course, varies according to the size of the joint. Maintaining the water in a state of constant ebullition involves a large waste of fuel, and does not raise the temperature, either of the liquid or the meat a single degree. In order to ascertain what is the maximum tem- perature attained by “ boiling ” a leg of mutton in the6 7 Soup making, or Boiling. usual way, I have several times pushed a thermometer, heat of provided with a pointed metal end, closely alongside joint the central hone to the middle of the joint; and have whlle ° cooking, never found, however thoroughly the meat has been cooked, that the mercury has risen above 180°, it has generally been a little below that limit. Let me say that such experiments have been made many years ago, I believe thirty or forty. At least twelve or fifteen years have elapsed since it was repeated by myself in both boiled and roasted meats in order to ascertain by personal observation that in each case meat could be well cooked at the temperature named. But it has long been known that for the purpose of Lower thoroughly cooking flesh of any kind, there is no jju^^ccok necessity to maintain so high a temperature as that best if adopted by the ordinary method above described, tuners provided that the time of exposure to the lower degree given, of heat is considerably prolonged. There is a gene- rally accepted table, current in all cookery books, indicating the time which every joint requires, grounded on its weight; but this always presupposes the boiling point of water, of course to commence with, and almost boiling sustained by continual combustion of fuel afterwards. The flavour of animal food is, by the system previously referred to, better, and the meat itself more tender and more digestible ; a result which will inevitably bring into favour the practice of slow cooking when the best method of conducting it has been determined. That flesh so cooked is easily digested is due to the Why cook- fact that at the temperature of 170° to 180° the albumen ^|tat low68 Food and Feeding. makes flesh digestible. The “ Eain- marie.” Captain Warren's cooking- pot. contained therein is sufficiently hut not overheated. Any temperature higher than the above-named tends to solidify it, and when exposed to too much heat, as often happens to a fried or overbroiled steak, it then becomes diminished in thickness and curved instead of being plump and tender, while the shrunken and indurated fibres of the overcooked portion are difficult of digestion by an average stomach. An excellent mode of securing the desired object in boiling is to move the pot containing the portion of meat, as soon as the initial boiling of six or seven minutes is completed, to a small gas ring or lamp, by which a gentle heat, that is about 190° to 200°, can he maintained for five or six hours, instead of the three hours usually required, say for a joint weighing about twelve pounds or more. The “ Bain-marie ” is an old and very simple appli- cation of the principle chiefly employed for the heating of sauces and for other purposes where it is desirable to avoid a temperature which might injure a delicate product, and especially any burning of it. It is simply a small thin saucepan suspended within a larger one adapted for the fire, and containing water which, when boiling, or nearly so, suffices to heat to a few degrees below its own temperature the contents of the inner vessel. This resembles the method on which the carpenter’s glue-pot is constructed, with which most persons are familiar. Captain Warren’s cooking-pot is a further develop- ment of the same principle, which has long been a favourite with many who appreciate excellence andCooking at Loza Temperatures. 69 economy combined in the work wliicli it is capable of doing. It is constructed on the plan of the “ bain- marie” just described, but is associated witli a steam chamber on the top, to be used or not when required. This latter may be used for the cooking of vegetables, fish, and other foods, thus utilising the steam formed by the boiling water contained in the larger outside vessel, which heats the inner one. But the inner is used not only for stewing and boiling purposes, but also as a dry cooker; that is to say, a fowl or a portion its use in of meat being placed therein can be slowly cooked Poking, without water by a process occupying about twice or three times as long as that employed for ordinary boiling or roasting. In this case the flesh furnishes a quantity of liquid, slowly disengaged by low temperature, rising as vapour at first, and becoming condensed, with its own natural juices into a broth or gravy, in which, at the conclusion of the process, the flesh is found partially or wholly immersed. On the top of this floats more or less fat in a melted state, and this can be removed in the usual manner. No No loss by loss whatever takes place by this method. All the Cess Pr°* albumen, extractives, and juices of the flesh will be found in the inner saucepan when the process is com- pleted. Thus a most admirable and tender Irish stew How to may be made by placing, say about four pounds of neck irisb^sw of mutton, cut chiefly from the lower half of it in the tllus- usual way, with most of the fat removed, a little onion, sliced, adding no liquid whatever, only a little black pepper and salt to taste. The outside pot should contain sufficient water to form a shallow bath for the70 Food and Feeding. Example of slow cooking at low tempera- ture. Cooking poultry same manner. inner pot which contains the meat; the water should he boiling at the commencement of the process, and for about a quarter of an hour afterwards, to antagonise the effect of the cold meat introduced. Then the pot should be removed to the corner of the fire, or over a gas ring, so as to simmer, that is to maintain the water a few degrees below boiling point. At the end of five or six hours or so the meat will be found perfectly tender, delicately cooked, full of flavour, and amply supplied with its own excellent gravy. When the melted fat has been removed, the potatoes, which have been partially cooked in the upper chamber or steamer, or in some other vessel separately, should he added to the meat in the inner chamber for about half an hour and served in the usual manner. The meat has been cooked at a temperature of about 185° or 190°, probably never exceeding 200°: hence its digestibility from the circumstances explained above. If the potatoes for the stew are cooked in the steamer, above the meat, the water must be kept boiling, during the latter part of the process, about an hour, to supply steam for the purpose. The above, or of a good sized fowl, can be cooked in a Warren pot of the smallest or least expensive size ; but I advise that a fowl should be first boiled in a separate vessel for six or seven minutes, as advised in the Norwegian cooker on the next page, and for the reason there given. And on the whole I think that poultry are better cooked in a quart of milk or of light stock, that is by the wet rather than by the dry process ; in each case of course, at the low temperature named. Large inSlow Process in the Norwegian Cooker. 71 joints may be cooked in tbe same manner in pots of appropriate size. But still lower temperature suffices if more time be devoted to tbe cooking; and this is advantageous where tbe material to be cooked is unusually tough. An illustration of this principle has been familiar to us here for many years, in tbe action of tbe Nor- Nor- wegian cooking apparatus; and most people know doling that by its means a prolonged moderate temperature apparatus, is completely effective in producing tenderly-cooked viands of various kinds. The following mode of using it may be adopted. Tbe details are those of a process employed in my own kitchen, tbe temperatures being taken by myself. Those given above of tbe Warren process have been verified by me in tbe same manner. A fowl weighing two and a half pounds is put into a four or five quart saucepan, boiling on tbe fire or gas stove. Ebullition ceases for half a minute, practical owing to tbe coldness of tbe body introduced, and directions then reappears: it should then be continued actively it. for six or seven minutes. Meantime, a Norwegian cooking apparatus, which may or may not be furnished with a tin liner,* filled with boiling water (which becomes about 200 degrees when ready for use); but the presence of a liner is certainly advantageous. * The “ liner” is merely a vessel adapted to the size of the bird or joint to be cooked, made of two cylinders, one surrounding the other, with a space of about three quarters of an inch to an inch between each, which can be filled with hot water, separate from that which is in the cavity containing the food to be cooked. A vessel so constructed is often said to have “ a hot-water jacket.”Food and Feeding. 7 2 Nor- wegian cooker. No waste possible. Various illustra- tions of this. Becker’s process; Berlin. The cavity should he just large enough to hold the fowl in a vertical position, where it is to he imme- diately placed after the boiling, and water from the saucepan, about 206° or 208° by this time, or heated milk, is to he poured in to fill the cavity, for which about a quart is required. The apparatus is now accurately closed, and set aside in a corner, screened from draughts, hut not near to any source of heat, after which it is to remain untouched for at least twelve hours. On opening it the fowl will he found perfectly cooked and tender throughout, and the temperature of the liquor will he from about 120° to 130°. This should he set aside to cool, and when the fat is taken off it forms a more or less valuable contribution to the stock-pot. The initial boiling is of course intended to seal the surface, and to prevent the juices of the bird from escaping; hut some portion will of course find its way out into the surrounding liquid, and is to he utilised in the manner suggested, so that no particle is lost. The fowl can he served at once, masked with a good white sauce or otherwise, according to taste. Other applications of the same principle by which complete cooking is accomplished without hardening the albumenoid tissues of meat have been successfully adopted on a large scale, the most striking example being the apparatus patented by Becker, of Berlin (1882). The principle consists in ascertaining the temperatures best adapted for cooking each kind of food—for example, for making soup; for producing tender flesh, juicy, and not over-dried; and for73 Slow Cooking oil a Large Scale. serving vegetables completely adapted for digestion. The highest temperature of the three is generally demanded for the last-named, or the longest exposure to heat; for the starch cells throughout the tissue must be burst to scatter their contents, before the required condition is attained. Different compart- ments in the apparatus are easily maintained at varied temperatures by means of steam supplied to each, and the economy in fuel thus effected on the large scale on which this method is applied is considerable. This plan was adopted and systematically applied a few years ago by my friend, Mr. L. 0. Smith, of Stockholm, for the operatives and their families in that city; and detailed accounts of it were published at the time (1884) in this country. And the results were accepted as demonstrating the efficiency and the economy of cookery at low temperatures. The Rev. AY. Moore Ede, of Gateshead, was Rev.Moore attracted by Mr. Smith’s successful use of Becker’s perience" apparatus, and visited Stockholm for the purpose of testing its value. He embodied his observations, which were in the highest degree favourable, in an admirable lecture on cheap food and cooking at Sunderland in 1884, which has since been cheaply printed, and had a deservedly large sale.* He employs for his cheap dinners for children a large box of sheet-iron, felted throughout inside, two and a half * Cheap Food and Cheap Cooking. Loudon : W. Scott, 14, Paternoster Square, Price Id. 1884. There are excellent hints on the management of penny dinners for school children. See also “ Children’s Dinner Tables,’’ in the Appendix. ' LFood and Feeding. 74 Mr. E. At- kinson’s “ Aladdin Oven.” Question of econo- my con- sidered. inches thick, and lined with tin-plate. Two gas jets will raise the contents (thirty gallons) to the boiling point, and a very small amount of flame suffices to maintain the lower temperatures preferred for as many hours as arc required. More recently, a complete and efficient apparatus, adapted for all the uses of a small or large family, has been designed and thoroughly tested in America by Mr. Edw. Atkinson, of Brookline, Mass. He first introduced the apparatus to the public as the “Aladdin Cooker,” for boiling, stewing, &c., and has rendered it more useful and efficient for all methods of cooking, except broiling and frying, under the name of the “Aladdin Oven.” Much is often said of the economy effected by all these methods of slow cookery, on the ground of the smaller loss in weight produced by them, as compared with roasted meats. This is much less than would appear at first sight to be the case. It is quite true that a joint weighing fourteen pounds when roasted or baked may weigh only eleven, and if cooked in the closed slow-temperature chamber may be finished at twelve pounds and a half. The difference is chiefly water; the far-reaching cooking odours amount to nothing; this is produced by slight decomposition of the surface, one result of which is a highly appreciated and appetising flavour in a very thin superficial layer, giving character to roasted and broiled meats, which cannot be obtained by any slow or closed-chamber process. The principle on which all of them act is to prevent the escape of heat by constructing the oven75 Atkinson's Aladdin Oven. of materials wliicli are thoroughly non-conducting, and therefore do not consist of metal, invariably em- ployed for kitchen ranges. Metal conducts heat away rapidly, and requires constant supplies of fresh heat, a process which renders difficult the maintenance of an equable temperature, besides being costly through wasteful consumption of fuel. The thick sides of the Construc- Aladdin oven are made of indurated and incombustible tlon‘ “ papier maclie,” or of a wood pulp, desiccated, which is practically almost the same thing, one of the best non-conductors of heat known, with a thin metallic lining ; the interior cavity available for cooking, which is divided by moveable horizontal partitions for different dishes, measuring from a foot to a foot and a half in every direction, in the sizes at present mostly used. The heat is supplied to the oven by means of an oil lamp below, or by gas ; in either case the amount supplied being always under the control of the cook. The whole of this heat, or nearly so, is conveyed into the interior of the chamber—no admis- sion of the products of combustion from the lamp or of gas with the air there being possible—to be utilised for culinary purposes. A chimney is unnecessary, as the waste products of the small flame required are inconsiderable, and may escape into the apartment, There being so little loss of heat, the plan is admir- ably adapted for hot summer weather, since the stove radiates no perceptible warmth into the surrounding air. It is not intended for cooking rapidly, but at a Mode of rate during the day requiring fully double the time usill&- consumed by the common kitchen range, while forFood and Feeding. 76 Cooking meat by radiation “ Roast- ing.” Gives op- portunity for basting; soup-making, stews, or any other procedure which it is desired to accomplish at a low temperature, and by which the best results are attained, it should he left at work all night with a small jet of gas beneath as the only source of heat. Bread may he made in it very successfully when the boiling and baking pro- cesses necessary for a meal have been completed, and much heat remains still to he utilised.* The cooking of meat by heat through radiation, and by heated dry air—“ roasting ” and “ baking.’’ Boasting is the cooking of meat in front of a clear, bright fire, the heat radiating from which into the “ roaster,” a metallic enclosure open towards the fire only, and containing the joint, turned therein by means of a bottle-jack. The fire, being at its best, the joint, poultry, or game, is placed very near at first—an analogous proceeding to the initial step in broiling—in order to seal the entire surface by coagulating its albumen at the outset, and so enclose the fluids securely within. This is accomplished in about eight to ten minutes for a large joint, or in four or five for a piece of poultry. The roaster is then drawn half a foot to a foot farther back, so as to diminish the heat thenceforward. The opportunity of basting the joint, which, especially towards the close of the process, should be frequently done with dripping from the pan below, is one of the advantages of this mode of cooking, which cannot he secured by any * The Art of Cooking. By E. Atkinson, LL.D. New York : Appleton. 1889. A paper reprinted from the Science Monthly for November, 1889, and other reports and papers subsequently.Roasting Meat, and Baking. 77 process of baking in an oven. The surface wouldvalu0 ot> become overdried by tbe beat, cracked, tbus permitting vapours to escape, and even charred, were it not for tbe basting, wbicb preserves it moist and flexible, and ensures only that precise degree of browning, with its agreeable aroma, wbicb is found by a connoisseur so precious for its peculiar flavour and scent. Want of diligence in using tbe ladle, and of care in regulating tbe fire, occasions tbe fat to be decomposed and burnt with much evil odour and savour. Certainly tbe proper roasting of poultry and game is quite unattain- able by any other method. Joints of meat may, however, be well cooked in tbe Baking; oven of an ordinary kitchener or complete cooking range, as now usually made. Tbe conditions are a conditions good supply of beat, as far as possible from the top tiTbesuc^ and both sides of tbe oven, tbe ability to ventilate cessful- when desired, a pan to catch tbe dripping beneath the grating on wbicb tbe joint rests, that pan resting on another an inch or two deeper, containing water below, tbe evaporation of wbicb maintains the dripping at a moderate temperature, rendering impossible its decomposition or burning with its all- pervading offensive odour. Those who desire to Mattieu ^ • • Williams’ pursue this subject further are strongly advised to make work. themselves acquainted with a work, already referred to, by Mr. M. Williams. It deals with tbe subject very fully, while its lucid and interesting style renders it very attractive, moreover it abounds in quaint and suggestive hints, and i3 valuable, particularly to those who desire to avoid needless expenditure, and to78 Food and Feeding. Broiling; directions or; preserve an intelligent method in the exercise of the household economies * Respecting broiling, I shall say no more here than that the operation resembles that of roasting, hut is applicable to a small portion of flesh, and can he rapidly conducted on the gridiron over a clear fire or upon a gas grill, which latter can he made available at a moment’s notice. A clear and smokeless fire is often not to he had without considerable delay and preparation, and then must he exclusively devoted to the grill as long as this is required, to the exclusion of other processes except those which are to he con- ducted on the adjacent hot plate. The principle is that of sealing the surface by heat at first, and not permitting the temperature of the interior to rise to a higher point than just suffices to render it tender, as it becomes filled and expanded by its own juices, which are yielded abundantly in the form of rich red gravy when the meat is cut by the consumer a few minutes afterwards. Hence the morsel, plump and rounded by the action of the heat, must not he touched by a fork, hut he turned when necessary with a pair of light tongs. The value of the grill is, perhaps, nowhere better understood than in England, especially in relation to chops, steak, and kidney; portions of fowl, or a split chicken, the bladebone, or even a small shoulder of mutton—all of which may be thus served in perfection by a competent hand. Still it is not quite so widely appreciated as it deserves to he * The ' Chemistry of Cooking. By Mattieu Williams. Louden: Chatto & Windus. 1885.Braising and Stewing. 79 in the preparation of many a small disli of fish, fowl, available and meat, or “ bone,” to say nothing of a grilled little^ mushroom, either alone, or as an accompaniment to dlslles- auy of them. And it may be worth while, perhaps, remarking that the sauce par excellence for broils is mushroom ketchup; and the garnish cool lettuce, watercress, or endive. Braising and stewing—a process by which meat and poultry are prepared and served in the most tender condition possible, and in an attractive form for the table—is somewhat neglected in this country. There is a marked distinction between “braising” and “stewing” not sufficiently recognised here ; hence probably the infrequency with which a true braise appears at our tables. In braising, of which, as we shall see, there are two Braising; processes, the meat may be just covered with a strong liquor of vegetable and animal juices (technically two called braise or mirepoix) in a closely covered vessel, methods! from 'which as little evaporation as possible is per- mitted, and is exposed for a considerable time to a surrounding heat several degrees short of boiling. By wbat it this treatment tough fibrous flesh, even if old, whether ^.cs°™g. of poultry, of cattle, or meat unduly fresh, such as it is difficult to avoid during the summer heats in towns, is made tender and easily digestible. Moreover, it becomes impregnated with the odours and flavour of fresh vegetables and sweet herbs, while the liquor itself, slowly reduced in the process, furnishes the most appropriate, fragrant, and delicious sauce, with which to surround the portion when served at table. Thus,8o Food and Feeding. should be more popular than it is. Principles of brais- ing. also, meats which are dry, or with little natural flavour, as veal, become saturated with juices, and combined with sapid substances, which render the food succulent and delicious to the palate. Small portions sufficing for a single meal, however small the family, can he thus dealt with; so that a rechauffe, or cold meat for ’to-morrow, is not a thing of necessity, but only of choice when preferred. To judge by the braised products which rarely ap- pear on English tables, and by such descriptions of it as exist in our cookery books, the process itself is scarcely understood. Certainly it is not one uniform method, to which the term is applied, and consequently an ordinary cook’s conception of it is apt to be some- what loose and indefinite. The first principle essential to a braise, is, that the meat so to be treated must be very slowly cooked, that is, at a comparatively low temperature, and in a closely covered vessel; and with a small quantity of liquid. The second principle is, that the meat shall be im- pregnated in this process with the flavours of vege- tables, herbs, of highly flavoured cured meats, and some spices, and, if desired, with wine. This may be done without the mirepoix above described, namely, by placing in the braise-pot around the meat, slices of ham, smoked sausage, or bacon, cut carrots, parsnips, turnips, onions, various herbs, a bay leaf, cloves or other spices, together with a small quantity of good meat stock. Another way of conducting the braise, as already intimated, is to make beforehand a strong81 Principles and Practice of braising. decoction of all these materials, with stock, and wine serving in part to flavour, and in part to preserve the liquor or mirepoix so that it may he kept for a time, ready for use when wanted. A small quantity of this is then to serve as the fluid in which the portion of meat or bird, &c., is to be braised. The third principle is not generally considered ab- solutely essential to the process; although it is un- doubtedly the last refinement necessary to produce a first-rate braise. It is that of partially browning or half-roasting the portion also; and this may be accom- plished in two ways. The legitimate or original way of doing this, is, to have well fitted to the braise-pot a sunk copper or iron cover, in which some hot cinders Precau- or charcoal are placed, towards the end of the process, usin^top when the braise is nearly finished, in order to transmit heat* downwards a scorching heat to the top of the portion which is uncovered by the liquid in the pot below. In this case it is usual to cover the portion, especially if a fowl, with a piece of white paper, which serves to shield a delicate morsel from a too fierce heat. The other and inferior way is to very lightly roast the meat, before putting it into the pot to. braise, and so dispense with the hot cinders or charcoal on the cover; but this hardens the flesh and tends to prevent the juices penetrating it. It may be seen then, that a braise in which no roasting is employed, does not, after the necessary materials have been prepared, require a great deal of attention, if the cook knows the corner of the fire or hot plate, where the slow and very gentleFood and Feeding. 82 simmering will maintain itself regularly for two or three hours. stewing; Common braising, or, what may rather be distin- mode. guished as effective stewing, is a process in which the previously prepared liquor and the final roasting heat are dispensed with. A standard illustration of it exists in the production of a well-known French dish, bee if a la mode, which is always good, when served in a simple, inexpensive manner for the people, and may be rendered most excellent with more care and refinement, so as to be suitable at a table of the highest rank. I shall sub- join Grouffe’s receipt; he regards the process as an important and typical one, and gives it at length. See Appendix, page 205. I have a general observation to make relative to the treatment of flesh in cookery (butcher’s meat, poultry, and game), whicli finds its place appropriately here. It relates to one of the fundamental principles of the culinary art, and should be considered by all who are interested in the subject before regarding ques- tions of detail. I ask attention to it because I do not know that any writer has pointed out the motives which have given rise to widely differing practice in the two neighbouring countries in regard of culinary art. important Two distinct systems have been produced as the character- tip* ±. i.ir 1*1*1 i istics of result of circumstances, the force of which may be English easily recognized, dominating the treatment of flesh French provisions particularly, on principles widely opposed cooking. eac]1 0^^ One of these characterizes the best Eng- lish cookery, while the other has been, and still is to aEnglish and French Cookery compared. large extent, tlie ruling principle of French, cookery. Both are rational—each system, perhaps, the better of the two in its own place; and only illogical products and examples of defective taste can arise in practical cookery by confounding the two, an error however which is far from uncommon. In spite of the admiration which it is impossible to withhold for the talent of the French cook, it is nevertheless in France that the confusion I speak of is chiefly to be met with. And it is only in our own country, I venture to affirnq that the principle or system in question is carried out to perfection. The English principle is, that our own meat The Eng- and game shall be presented at table in the highest state lisl1 ldea’ of perfection attainable, so far as breeding, feeding, and keeping can accomplish it: each animal, when served, to be characterized by its own proper flavour, which is on no account to be masked or disguised by others, which are adventitious. Delicate additions perfect tending to heighten the natural flavour, or agreeably ]^^tlu lts subordinated to it, shall alone be admitted. It is a principle which can be successfully followed only where these meats exist in high perfection: where meat is inferior or insipid, an opposite treatment is the better one. And I do not hesitate to claim for the intelligent English consumer, that it has long- been essentially his aim to cultivate the best meat and game in the world, and to enjoy its intrinsic qualities for their own sake, unalloyed by any of those additions in the form of highly-flavoured sauce, which are so valuable for improving materials which do not possess their own distinctive fine qualities and flavours.Food and Feeding. 84 The French idea; its value and utility. Compari- son of the two in practice. The opposite principle is that which has been deve- loped in association with the production of meats and poultry which are naturally somewhat insipid. Since it has been the custom not to rear in France fine mature beef or mutton, as we understand those meats here, but rather to consume almost exclusively an immature product, veal, as well as poultry, much of which, although the best of its kind, is naturally wanting in sapid character; these have become, and rightly so, the vehicles of various delicious adventi- tious flavours, for which purpose the white meats are valued rather than for their inherent qualities. This character of veal is illustrated in a passage occurring in the first number of the famous Almanack des Gour- mands, which appeared in Paris at the commencement of the present century:—“Yeal lends itself to so many metamorphoses that we may fairly term it ‘ the chameleon of cookery.’ ” * Precisely the same view is held by Brillat-Savarin, but in relation to poultry, when he says, “ Poultry is for cookery what canvas is to the painter.” f In such conditions, therefore, it is natural that French cuisine should be essentially distinguished for its sauces, by which it adorns and transforms material in itself somewhat uninteresting or uninviting. The Englishman loves the flavour of three or four years’ old mutton (unhappily almost a tradition now), mature beef, the wildest game, both winged and ground; and he cares not how little of “sauce” is * Almanack des Gourmands. Paris, 1803, p. 17. + Physiologic du Goill. Paris, 1843, p. 30.English Cookery contrasted with French. 85 supplied—lie demands only “ gravy”—so that they are in fine condition, sufficiently, not over-kept, and simply cooked, for the most part carefully roasted. To lard fine full-flavoured tender mutton or venison is, for him, to desecrate them; to lard or farce a grouse or partridge is the reverse of a compliment equally to the game, if mature, and to the guest, if a connoisseur. An English partridge is not improved, I venture to submit, even by larding, although the reverse is true of quail. The French chef treats the white meat, veal and domestic poultry, with so many ingeniously contrived sauces, as to render those two meats as good as six. So successful is the achievement, that he is too often tempted to extend his art to dark-fleshed game, and seeking to adorn it with new flavours, destroys the original savour and aroma, in which consists the value of the dish. During the last few years, however, I have been French happy to observe signs of a change in the practice of the best French cooks in this respect; as well as sometimes to find meats of better and more mature kind in Paris than formerly. One of the best illus- trations of the value of the principle I have above referred to as that of old English cookery, I met with a few years ago, served to myself and a friend, in an excellent and well-known restaurant very near the Place de 1’Opera. It was brought to me as a novelty, A happy and the method of realising the idea I concede to be tion!^* so, and in its way perfect in execution. It consisted of a very fine wild duck, simply but lightly and delicatelyFood and Feeding. 86 roasted, and served without an atom of sauce. The mmtre d'hotel having placed the bird before us on a dish heated by a spirit lamp below, cut three long handsome slices on each side of the breast-bone, beautifully red although cooked, and full of natural juice, removing thus, in fact, all that is prime and really worth eating. Leaving these in the hot dish and replacing the cover, he placed on the table before us a powerful nickel-silvered press, the size of a tea- urn or samovar, put the whole of the remains of the bird into it, and with a few turns of the lever, applied the screw so as to express a quantity of hot, rich, red juice to serve as our only, and indeed most exquisite sauce. The pinions, legs and back, indeed all but the sliced breast, had been thus compelled to yield all their fluids, in the form of about a coffee cupful of what might be called the essence of the bird. Such treat- ment precisely accords with our own view of what is the best, and was most admirably realised. Let us continue to cultivate the finest meats and game, pre- senting them when in the most perfect condition for the table, and serve simply, or with only such subor- dinate adjuncts as tend to heighten, not to obscure, the natural character of the original. We shall then have no cause to be ashamed of the course in which they appear at an English table. But I freely con- cede that in making the best of second-rate and insipid morsels, we have still much to learn from the great school of culinary art in France. The process of frying is rarely understood, and is Frying,87 Frying: Practical directions for. generally very imperfectly practised by the ordinary English cook. The products of our frying-pan are often and the greasy, and therefore for many persons indigestible, of process, the shallow form of the pan being unsuited for the process of cooking at a high temperature in oil, that is, at a heat of about 350° to 390° Fahr., that of boiling- water being 212°. This high temperature produces results, which are equivalent indeed to quick roasting, when the article to be cooked is immersed in the nearly boiling fat. Frying, as generally conducted, is rather a combination of broiling and toasting or scorching; and the use of the deep pan of heated oil or dripping, which is essential to the right perform- ance of the process, and especially in order to prevent greasiness, is a rare exception, and not the rule in ordinary kitchens. A few words of explanation are Practical necessary in relation to the temperature of the fat directl0ns- -which forms the frying bath, a matter of importance to ensure satisfactory results. When a bath of melt- ing fat is placed on the fire and the temperature has risen to 212°, some bubbles come to the surface with a hissing sound ; these are due to a small portion of water, which being converted into steam, rise until all is got rid of. This is not the boiling of the fat, which is now tranquil, and when the temperature has advanced much higher, to something like 340°, a slight vapour is given off. If the fat is permitted to become much hotter, smoke appears, indicating a degree of heat to be avoided, and that the fat has reached what is called the boiling point, when it decomposes and spoils. Before this is reached, the heat should be tested Jby88 Food and Feeding. Effect of high tem- perature. Avoid grease; putting in a slip of bread, wliicli if browned in a few seconds, a sufficient temperature has been attained, and the bath is ready for use. The above remarks apply equally to the temperature of any oil used for the same purpose. The principle on which success depends is, that at the moment of contact with the almost boiling fat or oil, a thin film of every part of the surface of the fish or other object to be fried is coagulated, so that the juices with their flavours, &c., are at once locked up within, and nothing can escape. The bath should therefore contain quantity sufficient, and also be hot enough, to effect this result in an instant, after which, and during the few seconds or minutes requisite to cook the interior, the heat is often slightly lowered with advantage. The fish or other material employed emerges when done, with a surface to which a little oil adheres, but this will drain oft owing to its extreme fluidity when hot, if left on a napkin slanting a minute or two before the fire; better still on white blotting paper; and thus it may be served absolutely free from grease. The film of egg often applied to the surface of an object to be fried, is in the same manner instantly coagulated and forms an impermeable case; while the fine bread crumbs adher- ing to it take a fine yellow colour, being slightly charred or toasted by the high temperature they are exposed to. In order to be free from grease the bread or biscuit crumbs should be very fine, adhering by means of a thin layer of egg previously applied by the brush. If they are coarse and too abundantly used, grease will adhere to the surface or be absorbed by it.Frying: in Oil and in Dripping. 89 Excellent and fresh olive oil, which need not be so the value perfect in tint and flavour as the choicest kinds re- °^ollve served for the salad-bowl, is the best available form of fat for frying, and is sold at a moderate price by the gallon for this purpose at the best Italian ware- houses. Nothing, perhaps, is better than well-clarified beef dripping, such as is produced, often abundantly, and of beef • . . . f&t or in every English kitchen; but the time-honoured <<arjp. traditions of our perquisite system enable any Eng- Pm&-” lish cook to sell this for herself, at small price, to a little trader round the corner, while she buys, at her employer’s cost, a quantity of pork lard for frying material, at double the price obtained for the drip- ping. Unfortunately, however, lard is the worst menstruum for the purpose, the most difficult to work in so as to free the matters fried in it from grease; and we might be glad to buy back our own dripping from the aforesaid little trader, at a profit to him of cent, per cent., if only the purchase could be diplomatically negotiated. But so sweet is acquisition by way of perquisite, that none of the present race of cooks appear disposed to part with this particular one for any consideration which can be offered. They are doubtless, after their fashion, true to their order, and regard in the light of sacrilege any interference with these principles and traditions. There is one dish which may be mentioned here The ome- appropriately, of which English cooks have not much lette> practical knowledge; very few can make a tolerable omelette : and thus one of the most delicious and nutritious products of culinary art, with the further NFood and Feeding. 90 the mak- ing of it to he prac- tically learned. merit that it can he more rapidly prepared than any other dish of equal value, especially to the traveller, must really at present he almost regarded as an exotic. The method of proceeding is one 'which it is almost impossible to describe in writing, and no cookery hook instructions which I have ever seen convey a notion of the necessary manipulation in which the whole art consists—to the uninitiated. Competent instruction at first and some practice are undoubtedly required, in order to attain a mastery in producing an omelette; hut these given, there ought to be no difficulty in turning out an excellent specimen. The ability to do this may be so useful in the varied circumstances of travel, &c., that no young man des- tined for foreign service, or even who lives in chambers, should fail to acquire so desirable an accomplishment. It can only he done by learning it practically from an efficient teacher.CHAPTER VI. Preparation of Food continued—Soups—Pot-au-feu—The Stock-pot —Bouillon—Consomme —Mode of producing endless variety— The foundations of all Soups—Fish Soups and Stews—Vegetable Soups—Garnishes—Cookery of Vegetables a VAnglaise and a la Frangaise—Sauces—Macaroni—Best mode of preparing it for table—Rice—Various modes of cooking—Cold meats— Aspic Jelly and Receipt—Salads. I think it may be said that soups, whether clear Soups (that is, prepared from the juices of meat and vege- ^y^any^ tables only), or thick (that is, purees of animal or vegetable matters), are far too lightly esteemed by most classes in England, while they are almost un- known to the working man. For the latter they might furnish an important cheap and savoury dish; by the former they are too often regarded as the mere prelude to a meal, to be swallowed hastily, or dis- regarded altogether as mostly unworthy of attention. The great variety of vegetable purees, which can be an im- casily made and blended with light animal broths, admits of daily change in the matter of soup to a diet for remarkable extent, and affords scope for taste in the ’ selection and combination of flavours. The use of fresh vegetables in abundance — such as carrots, turnips, parsnips, artichokes, celery, cabbage, sorrel/leeks, and onions—renders such soups wholesome and appetising.92 Food and Feeding. utilising vegetables advan- tageously. These should be fresh. Example: the national French soup. The supply of garden produce ought in this country to be singularly plentiful; and, owing to the unrivalled means of transport, all common vegetables ought to be obtained fresh in every part of London. The contrary, however, is unhappily the fact. It is a matter of extreme regret that vegetables, dried and compressed after a modern method, should be so much used as they are for soup, by hotel-keepers and other caterers for the public. Unquestionably useful as these dried products are on board ship, and to travellers camping out, to employ them at home, when fresh can be had, is the result of sheer indolence cr of gross ignorance. All the finest qualities of scent and flavour, with some of the fresh juices, are lost in the drying process; and the infusions of preserved vegetables no more resemble a freshly made odorife- rous soup, than a cup of that thick brown, odourless, insipid mixture, consisting of some bottled “ essence ” dissolved in hot water, and now supplied as coffee at most railway stations and hotels in this country, resembles the recently made infusion of the freshly roasted berry. It says little for the taste of our countrymen that such imperfect imitations are so generally tolerated without complaint. How different is the result of intelligent cookery, as we find it exemplified in the simple national soup of France. Here the appetising odours of fresh meat and vegetables are discerned with pleasure, the moment a pot-au-feu enters the room. Relative to this dish so much has of late appeared in public prints, failing to explain what is understood in France93 The Pot-cm-Feu. by it, that I think an accurate description of what it really is may prove acceptable here. The pot-cm-feu is a composite dish which produces, “Pot-au- first a simple, but not strong, beef broth (bouillon), feu well flavoured by fresh vegetables; secondly, a some- what over-cooked and exhausted piece of beef (bouilli) which is served after the soup ; and, lastly, the vege- tables themselves. This is a different thing from the common “ stock- differs pot ” of the French peasant, so frequently termed a „ stock-6 pot-au-feu, and confounded with it. The primary pot,” object of a “ stock-pot ” is to make a decoction or basis for soup—of animal food, if possible—and every morsel of flesh, poultry, trimmings from joints, bones well bruised, &c., which are available for the purpose, are reserved for it. To the pot of the peasant, who wastes nothing whatever, all things are welcome; and every atom of nutritive material—solid or liquid— goes into it, to which are always added herbs and vegetables, together with the liquor in which any of the latter may chance to have been boiled. But some- times it is a pot mciigre, no meat of any kind having <<gras"or been procurable, and very good vegetable soups, “maigre” moreover, are educible therefrom, of which more hereafter. Then again, besides, or instead of the slices of bread which are usually put into the broth when served, the good wife now and then cleans a fresh cabbage, boils it in water, as much as possible of which she removes by pressure in a cloth, then puts the cabbage for a few minutes into her pot, and finally serves it as a welcome addition to the dish.94 Food and Feeding. Products of the “ pot-au- feu.” The stock- pot. Blit in none of these forms can the true pot-au-feu be recognised ; and no Frenchman who has the least acquaintance with the national cookery will allow it to rank as one. The pot-an-feu has for its object, as already stated, not only the making of a well-flavoured beef broth, hut the cooking of a portion of the beef to he eaten separately after, either cold or hot, according to taste, together with the vegetables necessarily associated with it. Formerly, this bouilli always appeared at an ordinary French table immediately after the bouillon ; but, strictly speaking, it is not worth eating, certainly by those who can afford better food, and it has a good deal disappeared during the last few years. So the pot-au-feu has come to signify at ordinary tables only a soup, and it may appear at the best tables in that capacity; still, strictly as a beef broth, but of the most perfect kind, well seasoned and flavoured by herbs and vegetables. The well-known soups so admirably served at a good Paris restaurant as pay- same and croute-au-pol respectively, are but slight modifications of the original pot-au-feu. To return to the family stock-pot. This has, on the Continent, especially in families of the middle class, another use beside that of preparing a basis for soup. Thus when a boiled fowl is required, it is a common practice to conduct the process in the liquor of the stock-pot. Any nutritive matter, however small, which might have been lost in the water used in ordinary boiling, is saved for the soup, while a fowl boiled in stock is certainly preferable when it comes to95 The Stock Pot. table, to one which has been boiled in water. And so with many other articles ; for example, a small and well cleaned ham may be cooked—and this is an affair of several hours—in a capacious stock-pot, with advantage equally to the soup and the ham, provided, of course, that the latter has previously been soaked some twenty-four hours or so to remove superfluous salt; nor should any salt be put into the stock-pot itself when required for this operation. But besides the bouillon of thepot-au-feu there is “Grand the grand bouillon also, a distinct and elementary bouillon‘ product of French cookery; this is a decoction, stronger than the preceding, of the flesh of beef and veal, together with a portion of supplementary bone and sinew, all fresh and uncooked, in order to add gelatine ; and this is combined also with vegetables. Lastly, there is the consomme, which is a decoction of “Con- beef, veal, and fowl, the two latter partially roasted somm®” for the purpose of heightening flavour ; and it is made, not with water, but with bouillon — Gouffe orders the grand bouillon just described—and with a few more vegetables. This is therefore the highest form of soup from beef, veal, poultry, and vegetables which can be produced. Now, as the mode of making pot-au-feu is an im- portant initial step in the art of soup-making, I shall place in an appendix at the end of this volume, a somewhat abridged translation of the very complete instructions given by Gouffe. The right management is with him a matter of the highest importance ; and, simple as the dish is, he devotes no less than nine96 Food and Feeding. Soup nomen- clature ; varieties endless, species very limited, to wit; pages to the task of illustrating the elementary princi- ples of cookery which are involved in the process. By way of further illustrating the subject, I shall place there also some interesting instructions and com- ments from Dumas’ Grand Diciionnaire de Cuisine. It is not at all surprising that many persons should be somewhat bewildered by the almost endless variety of appellation under which the single article of soup is presented at table. It has been estimated that the titles which denote these numerous varieties, number altogether not less perhaps than five hundred. And proceeding on the principle on which these are pro- duced, there appears to be no reason why even the present list should not be doubled in length. In reality the number of species is very limited; but the slightest addition to a soup having been held sufficient to confer upon it a distinctive name, the idea of com- plexity and number has been unnecessarily fostered. Regarded analytically, there are but five leading species from which all varieties are produced by slight additions and combinations of flavour. 1. A clear decoction (weak, or “broth”; strong, or consomme) of meat: of beef, veal, sometimes mutton; and of pork in the form of ham or bacon. 2. A clear decoction of fowl. 3. A clear decoction of game. 4. A decoction of fish proper, and with shell fish (oysters, mussels, &c.) ; including “bisques.” 5. A decoction of vegetables only, comprising also herbs, roots, grains, and farinaceous substances.Five Leading Species oj Soup. 97 Any of these may he used as made at first hand; How then most may he presented with some slight addi- made tion, such as with the well-known dried Italian pastes, and also fresh made pastes (■nouilles and quenelles) ; cut Additions, fresh vegetables, in rounds, in squares, in lon& strips, fresh, or lightly fried before adding them, with crusts of bread, with an egg, &c.; each single addition de- noted by a distinctive appellation, which will suggest itself in each example named above, to any one who has the least acquaintance with cookery. The consomme of meat, or of veal, beef, and fowl “ Purees.” mixed, or of game, may also he thickened by addition of a flesh, fowl, and game puree respectively ; white soups, commencing with a consomme of veal and poultry, thickened with a puree of the white meat of fowl; and brown purees following, from consomme of beef and veal, and of game. The same consomme, or the weaker broth, furnish bases for vegetable purees in like manner, either white or coloured. Many of these, like the others, have their distinctive names ; e.cj., puree of carrot as Crecy, of potatoes as Parmentier, of green peas as S. Germain, of red haricots as Conde, of lentils as Conti, or adding vegetables prepared as for a “julienne,” it becomes Faubonne,—while a puree of artichokes, curiously enough, and by virtue of a bad pun, is called Palestine. Thus the variations and additions which may be Special • • kinds made by means of a little skill in combination, are apart, literally endless. A short list of exceptional soups, each with a distinct individual character, may still be oFood and Feeding. 98 Turtle, mulliga- tawny, &c. Distinc- tions in soups for “fasting.” referred to as not belonging to the above-mentioned classes. Such as real turtle, made either in part or wholly from the live animal; a large proportion is prepared from the imported dried flesh, when the stock is almost invariably made from veal and beef ;* after this come mock turtle or calf’s head; ox-tail,mulligatawny; while giblet and “cock-a-leekie,” are almost stews ; the latter doubtless designed originally to present the patriarch of the poultry yard in an eatable form. Another Scotch soup, “hotch-potch,” like an Italian “minestre” or “minestrone,” may contain almost a meal of fragrant combinations. Then there is an important distinction, recognised chiefly on the Continent, and related to the demands of religious observance, between • soups which have meat for their basis (potage gras), and those which have fish, or exclusively vegetable bases (potage maigre) ; into the latter class also, eggs are admitted. All these take rank of course among the five classes first named; but they are referred to separately here * An amusing controversy took place last autumn in consequence of my having stated in a paper read at the Fisheries Exhibition that turtle soup when “ at its best ” was composed of a stock made from the conger eel, the turtle furnishing the garnish and the name. The turtle soup makers rushed into print, especially some well-known artists at the East end of London, who used language which was more remark- able for force than for elegance. Never was there a more striking illustration of the proverb, “ qui s'cxcicsc s'accuse.” I had never brought any accusation against any turtle soup maker : I had merely expressed the opinion given above ; one to which I still firmly adhere. Much less was I guilty of affirming in any of my writings, that the artists above alluded to had ever made turtle soup “at its best! ”99 Fish Soups. in order to draw attention to a fact not generally recognised in this country, that excellent soups may he made without employing meat. Yegctahle soups, both clear and thickened, may Vegetable he made extremely palatable; the former being agreeable and wholesome, especially in the warm season when fresh vegetable growth is abundant, and full of juice and fragrance. And the latter or thick soup, may he very nutritious also, as already shown, since they contain a considerable quantity of barley, peas, beans, haricots, Indian corn, rice, &c. The following is a good receipt for a clear, purely vegetable stock:— Slice two carrots, two turnips, a head of celery, two Clear onions ; put into a frying-pan with a few sweet herbs and half a pound of butter. Fry until well browned, then put them with three or four cloves, some salt and black pepper, into six pints of cold water in a saucepan; bring to the boil and gently simmer for two or three hours, reducing to four pints not less ; strain off into a vessel, letting it stand for use. When required, pour off the clear liquor, leaving the deposit, and you will have a good vegetable stock. If it is to he used as a clear vegetable soup, heat, adding at the close, two tablespoonsfuls of “cornflour ” pre- viously mixed smooth in some of the liquor and letting the whole boil; if any scum arises remove it. The cornflour gives to the decoction an agreeable body. To convert this into a meat consommtf add after How to boiling, and just before serving, two full teaspoonfuls a of the Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat, ' soup.lOO Food and Feeding. A gelatine body. Vegetable puree. Fish soups. Bisques. Bouilla- baise. Another mode of giving body when a soup maigre is not required, is to make a decoction of beef bones without meat, which have been thoroughly broken and allowed to simmer gently at least six hours; then cooled, skimmed from fat. The result, which is a strong jelly, can he warmed, strained clear through flannel, and used instead of water with which to make the vegetable soup as above directed; it adds substance and quality, hut of animal matter in place of the corn- flour employed for the preceding. Thickened vegetable soups may he made with these stocks, or with a weak meat stock, by rubbing in smooth well-made purees of almost any vegetable matter. Those most commonly used are from green peas, potato, carrot, turnip, artichoke, tomato, salsify, &c., or from dried vegetable products, as split peas, lentils, haricots, rice, arrowroot, semolina, &c. Nutritious and palatable soups may also be made from fish, the cheaper sorts being available for stock, while the better sorts are applicable as garnish. When we possess an adequate, and therefore cheap supply—an event which, with the enormous resources of this country, can only be a question of time— valuable soups and stews of fish and of shell fish, will be available for the poorer classes, whose tastes only require educating in order to appreciate them, doubt- less also a work of some little time. I need only refer to oyster soups, to the much esteemed bisques, a term usually denoting delicately flavoured purees of crayfish, and to that delicious dish, bouillabaise, eaten in perfection at Marseilles, as among the most agree-Bouillabaise: importance of good Consomme*. ioi able products of culinary art in this direction. Thackeray’s well-known rhymes do not exaggerate its good qualities, and enumerate its component elements almost with sufficient accuracy to direct the cook.* See Chapter VII., on the subject of fish as food, for remarks on its selection and preparation for receipts or fish soups and stew including directions for preparing a Marsellaise Bouillabaise. I may conclude this brief sketch of soups by ob- serving that the ability to make a good, fragrant, and clear consomme, yet fine in colour with a certain softness and smoothness of body—and nothing is easier, granted a moderate intelligence and the power of exe- cuting simple details with care—affords the key to almost all. The preparation of vegetables and the making of purees, are merely mechanical processes, easily attained. The judgment necessary to add and combine spices, essences, and other sources of flavour, for soups, sauces, and sweet entremets, is the one element which when possessed, in addition to the character of an attentive, dexterous, and pains-taking workman, essential to success in every profession, constitutes a finished cook, and denotes his or her * ‘ ‘ This Bouillabaisse a noble dish is A sort of soup, or broth, or brew, Or hotch-potch of all sorts of fishes That Greenwich never could outdo : Green herbs, red peppers, mussels, saffern, Soles, onions, garlic, roach and dace ; All these you eat at Jerre’s tavern In that one dish of Bouillabaisse.” The title of “ cook ” does not belong to one who cannot make a good con- somme. 'flic Ballads,102 Food and Feeding. Sauces. Garni- tures in variety. rank. And thus it is that the department of sauces especially gives opportunity to develop and illustrate these qualities; and here it is that the artist’s skill is most clearly manifested. And the reader who desires to become acquainted with the principles and practice of sauces, a subject too large and too recondite to he dealt with here, must consult a first-rate French authority, as unquestion- ably the highest on this subject.* After sauces come garnitures. Respecting these a few hints may be given, for agreeable and even important additions may be made to most small dishes of animal food under this title of “ garnish.” Whether it be a small filet, braised or roasted, or a portion thereof broiled; a fricandeau, or the choice end of a neck of mutton made square and compact by shortening the bones; or a small loin, or a dish of trimmed neck cutlets, or a choice portion of broiled rumpsteak; a tender ox tongue, a couple of sweetbreads, poultry, pigeon, or what not—the garnish * I can (scarcely recommend a better than the classical work of Gouffe before referred to. But it may, perhaps, be a little out of date in some details, although the leading principles must remain unchanged, and it is still an admirable guide to practice. For the purposes of the best English kitchens, “La Cuisine d’Aujourd’hui,” by Urbain Dubois, E. Dentu, Paris, 1889, pp. 760, is a storehouse of trustworthy information, and it is well illustrated. Price 12 francs. But for a modern encyclopaedic work on the subject, including “la haute cuisine,” the following, by Dubois & Bernard conjointly, is beyond question the most complete :— “Cuisine classique : Etudes raisonnees et demonstratives de l’Ecole Fran^aise ; deux grands volumes, 77 planches gravees ; Dubois et Bernard. 14 edition, E. Dentu, Paris, Prix 40 francs,103 Garnishes. should be a matter of consideration. Whether the Garni- dish he carved on the family table, as it rarely fails c^tinued to be when its head is interested in the cuisine, or whether it is handed in the presence of guests, the quality and the appearance of the dish greatly depend on the garnish. According to the meat may he added, with a view both to taste and appearance, some of the following—purees of sorrel, spinach, chicory, and other greens, of turnips, and of potatoes plain, in shapes, or in croquettes; cut carrots, peas, beans, endive, sprouts, and other green vegetables; stewed onions, small or Spanish; cucumbers, tomatoes,macaroni in all forms; sometimes a few sultanas boiled, mushrooms, olives, truffles. In the same way chestnuts are admirable, whole, boiled, or roasted, and as a puree freely served, especially in winter, when vegetables are scarce; serving also as farce for fowls and turkeys. While yege. such vegetables as green peas, French and young broad tables ^ beans, celery and celeriac, asparagus, seakale, cauli- << entre- flower, spinach, artichokes,salsify, vegetable marrows, mets” &c., are worth procuring in their best and freshest condition, to prepare with especial care as separate dishes.* * A hint about boiling asparagus is worthy of mention, since the proper method is rarely followed by English cooks. Asparagus of the stouter sort, always when of the “giant” variety, should be cut of exactly equal lengths, and boiled, standing ends upward, in a deep saucepan. Nearly two inches of the heads should be out of the water—the steam sufficing to cook them, as they form the tenderest part of the plant; while the hard stalky part is rendered soft and succulent by the longer boiling which this plan permits. Instead of the orthodox twenty minutes allotted to average asparagus lying horizontally, in the English manner, which half cooks the stalk.Food and Feeding. 104 French and English treatment of vege- tables ; of green peas, for example. And here, again, the distinctive principles, already referred to, of French and English cuisine, are illus- trated in relation to the cooking of vegetables; and again, let me add, not to the disadvantage of our own system. I find it the more necessary to call atten- tion to this subject, as much has of late been said, which may lead many to believe that French usage is invariably right, and English usage invariably wrong. Yery far from the truth, I humbly submit, is such an allegation as this, even in regard of our treatment of vegetables. No doubt we are too often guilty of carelessness and inattention to the condition in which vegetables are presented, in the service of our tables, but our principle is in the main correct, and only wants to be pursued with intelligence. When vegetables are really good, well grown, and fresh, no good judge desires that their natural qualities of flavour, odour, and consistence, or even colour, should be destroyed by the addition of other materials, and of foreign flavours. Let us take two, in illustration of these remarks, green peas and the tomato. Garden peas, petits pois, when young, quickly grown, and fresh, have a delicious characteristic flavour of their own, are rather sweet, and almost crisp when and overcooks the head, diminishing its flavour and consistence, a period of thirty or forty minutes, on the plan recommended, will render fully a third more of the stalk delicious, while the head will he properly cooked by the steam alone. One reason why it is not uncommon to hear the best produce of the fields of Argenteuil in- sufficiently appreciated here, and our own asparagus preferred, is, that the former is rarely sufficiently cooked at English tables.Methods of dressing Peas and Beans. eaten ; and maintain these attributes unimpaired, if simply boiled in salt and water. Such should he eaten a VAnylaise, the use of the term itself being a tacit admission on the part of the French chef, that the simple cooking advocated here, and practised in this country is, in this instance, justifiable. All that is produced under this name is a dish of peas, cooked as described, served with, a pat of fresh butter, and some salt, accompanied by the capital little pepper-mill, which is natural to a French table, and almost unknown here.* A morsel of the butter is stirred into the hot peas, a little black pepper, full of fragrance, freshly ground over them, and a pinch of salt, according to taste, and the whole stirred. The same process is equally applicable to “ Hari- French beans, and also to that excellent mixture of®°*®’g„ French beans and flageolets, so well-known as “ liari- and cots panaches,” so rarely served in this country. All aCh|gb these vegetables, when in excellent condition, are doubtless served at their best, cl VAnglaise, not only in relation to the palate, but also in view of the average digestion. To return to our petits pois as the type. When To treat green peas are a little hard, old, and tough, or a little fong^0 coarse in flavour, and without sweetness, then it is young and , tender. that the French cook treats them with advantage. For such peas as these, when no others are to be had " It was so when I first wrote, but has now for some time been growing in favour here, and may be seen at many tables and for sale in many shops. At the time referred to I could not have found a table pepper-mill in London, and obtained my own in Paris.Food and Feeding. o —and it must bo confessed that inferior peas are far too commonly met with—by all means let them be served d la Frangaise. This is stewing gently in a little water, a good proportion of butter, with sliced onion, and salt, stirring in a little hour, and a small quantity of sugar. Some, exceptionally, add a little cream, and yolk of egg. Another excellent French method, d la Paysanne, is to add first butter as before, salt and onion ; and then stew slowly in a fair quantity of stock, with lettuces, finely sliced, some sugar, and a shred or two of parsley, if desired. Almost any peas may be rendered tender and appe- tising, if thus treated. French Again, haricots verts sautes an heurre, is a favourite ^Tautes.” m°de of cooking them ; but no superfluous butter should appear when they are served; the quantity allowed in which to toss them for a few minutes on a brisk fire, after boiling, should amount to no more, according to the rule, than a tenth part by weight of that of the vegetables themselves when dry.* But who does not know that it is common enough, both in town and province throughout France, to be supplied not only with French beans, but other vege- tables, saturated with butter, rendering them for most * Some persona who have not studied practical cookery may not quite understand the French term sautcr, or the corresponding Eng- lish term, “toss.’' It means, to fry lightly or partially in butter, using a shallow pan, and, moving the material to be fried, or, rather, “tossed,” so as to avoid the production of a temperature high enough to brown the surface—a condition which is intended to be produced by frying proper, as before explained (p. 88) to take place, by immers- ing the material in heated oil.107 The Tomato. Fish undervalued. English stomachs, at all events, hazardous, and to some repulsive. The natural inference from all this is, that certain French methods are desirable, and their success is re- markable, when—as we have already seen in relation to both meats and vegetables—the materials are in- ferior ; but the English method is the simplest and best, when the materials are—as they always should be—the best of their kind. And now, briefly, for the tomato; in almost any The condition, simple cookery alone is admissible for it. t0mat0. Doubtless, if ripe and fresh, it is best of all when eaten raw; but if served hot, only plain boiling, baking, or broiling, will cook this delicious half-fruit, half-vegetable, so as least to alter or diminish its natural flavour. It is excellent also if boiled and peeled when hot; but served cold, to eat, having- added a little salt and pepper, and perhaps a few drops of oil, with cold meat, or with savoury rice, or indeed in many ways. But to serve, a hot tomato, by stuffing it with onion, parsley, and shalot is mis- chievous meddling carried to its highest pitch ! Yet this is the form in which tomato is most frequently served at foreign tables. Certainly, Talleyrand’s well-known caution, “ Point de zele,” applies no less forcibly sometimes to professional cooks, than as a maxim for diplomatists. It is certainly to be lamented that so little use is made in our country of the Italian pastes, especially of macaroni in all its forms; and that rice, largely used as it is, is not so well cooked, and thereforeFood and Feeding. ic8 Macaroni. Valuable form of food. An excel- lent lunch for the busy. not so highly appreciated among the upper and middle classes as it deserves to he. The mention of macaroni conveys to nineteen out of twenty Englishmen, as it does also to our cooks, the idea of an indigestible mess, containing much toasted cheese and butter, well peppered and over-baked, which is sometimes served at the end of dinner as a “ savoury ” to complete the repast. In this form ought rarely if ever to appear. Macaroni is, in fact, an aliment of high nutritious quality, being formed largely of the gluten, the most valuable part of the wheat from which some of the starch has been re- moved. Weight for weight, it may be regarded as not less valuable for flesh-making purposes, in the animal economy, than beef and mutton. Most people can digest it more easily and rapidly than meat: it offers, therefore, an admirable substitute for flesh, particularly for lunch or mid-day meals, among those whose employments demand continuous at- tention during the whole of a long afternoon. To dine, or to eat a heavy meal in the middle of the day is, for busy men, a great mistake: one never- theless which is extremely common, and often pro- ductive of discomfort, to say the least. Macaroni might, with advantage to the public, and especially to city men, who are closely occupied between break- fast and dinner, be prepared at the restaurants there as a staple dish, in two or three forms, since it sustains the power without taxing too much the digestion, or rendering the individual heavy, sleepy, and incompetent afterwards. Two or three of theModes of Cooking Macaroni. 109 best and simplest forms of serving it are embodied in the following receipts which are the result of several experiments by different methods :— Put four ounces of good macaroni (Genoa or Naples) Author's as little broken as possible, into a saucepan with three macaroni1 or four pints of boiling water. Boil ten minutes, not cooked in longer. Then pour off all the water, and place the <<maca- macaroni in a stewpan with a pint of good and well- ?oni„au flavoured stock made from beef or veal, or both (or from a well furnished stock pot), adding a saltspoon of salt and half that quantity of pepper, and let it simmer at the corner of the fire until the macaroni is tender ; it is never to be soft and flabby. The time necessarily varies, according to the kind and size of the macaroni, e.g., fifty or sixty minutes for the best Genoese, from twenty-five to thirty minutes for Neapolitan. Its condition, however, should be tested by trying a small piece. Most of the stock is absorbed by the macaroni by this time; but that which remains, probably a fourth part of the original quantity, may be strengthened, if necessary, by the third or the half of a teaspoonful of the genuine Liebig’s Extract of Meat, and thickened by adding a little baked flour (baked quite brown) which is preferable for this pur- pose to the brown “reux ” often used, which contains butter in a somewhat indigestible form. The above constitutes macaroni cm jus in the simplest form. For those who can easily digest cheese and butter, Another an ounce of grated Parmesan and perhaps half an for “ac' ounce of good English cheese may be added gradually l’ltai- stirring well during the latter half of the process,ienne-”I IO Food and Feeding. Macaroni a rital- ienne, con- tinued. The same with milk, “ au maigre.” towards the end of which a little pat of butter may he added, with a sprinkle of Parmesan over the dish when filled, before serving. The macaroni ought now to “spin ” well, that is, delicate threads should extend from one portion to another when moved. Lastly, hot tomato sauce may he poured over it, or be supplied separately, since some prefer the macaroni without this addition. Serve on a hot dish provided with a cover. It is now a dish of macaroni a f Italienne. If there is only a weak stock, chiefly made from hones, &c., in the stock pot, use it, hut add a rather larger portion of the Liebig’s Extract. In such case a little flour of lentils, well boiled to thicken the stock with, would be a suitable addition. The Liebig’s Extract should never he added until the end of the process, and merely he well stirred in immediately after removing from the fire to serve. If, instead of stock, milk is used, an agreeable change may he made; and this form constitutes macaroni au maigre, the foregoing receipts being au gras. To prepare this, boil four ounces as before, ten minutes ; drain and place in a stewpan with a pint of milk, simmering as above directed until sufficiently tender. Serve hot. Any milk remaining unabsorbed by the macaroni may he thickened with baked flour {white). Flavour with a little cinnamon or vanilla, or otherwise to taste, and sweeten with sugar or saccharin, if desired. For those who prefer a savoury dish, and can take cheese and butter, a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan, and a small pat of the latter, should be gradually added, stirring it in during the latter part111 Modes of Cooking Rice. of the simmering process, according to the directions just given for macaroni d VItaliennc. Of rice, the modes of cooking are endless, and yet Cooking few dishes are adopted hero besides the well-known of rice' pudding with milk and sugar, with or without eggs ; the moulds of boiled rice, variously treated, to be eaten with fruit; and rice, rarely well prepared, for service with a curry. There is also no doubt the boiled fowl and rice, usually regarded as a convales- cent’s dish, and not generally rendered sufficiently in- teresting or attractive to merit the attention of others. .As examples of nutritious, and at the same time very palatable savoury dishes, I will offer two examples; viz., the risotto d la Milcmaise, and the pilau of the East: varieties of the latter are common among all the populations dwelling adjacent to the Mediter- ranean, from Spain to the Levant. A dish of boiled lice being in some sort the culinary analogue in the vegetable kingdom, of veal and poultry in the animal, furnishing an insipid but wholesome basis, is well fitted to be the vehicle for producing innumerable flavours and odours, and even colours at the table, saffron for example and fruit juices ; and is thus capable of furnishing various dishes, according to the treatment, and to the materials for addition, obtainable in different districts. To make risotto a la Milanaise for two persons.— Risotto a, Put two ounces of fresh butter, with an onion chopped als^llan' very fine, into a stewpan, and fry until the onion has a pale gold colour. Then add six ounces of well washed East India rice, with a very little powderedFood and Feeding. I I 2 saffron, stirring it constantly for about two minutes with, a wooden spoon, so that it does not stick to the stewpan; after this two minutes’ cooking, add about a pint of good stock very gradually ; let it simmer gently, stirring very frequently, till the rice is just soft; before it is quite finished, add an atom or two of grated nutmeg and an ounce or more, according to taste, of grated Parmesan cheese; after this, cook, stirring well for two or three minutes; then remove from the fire, set the stewpan on a hot plate, add a little more butter, cover for a few minutes, and serve. The quantity of stock or hcef-tea can be varied according as the risotto is preferred thick or otherwise. a Turkish For a Turkish pilau, well wash six ounces of East pilau- India rice, and boil in a pint of water for five minutes at the most; then throw it into a colander that it may thoroughly drain. Next place it in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, salt and pepper to taste, stirring well, and adding by degrees about half-a-pint of good fowl broth. After about fifteen or twenty minutes it should be properly done, turning out with the grains separate. It is to be served perfectly hot, The foregoing is a true pilau, but additions may bo made of portions of the meat of the fowl, of thin slices of bacon, or grated beef or ham; of a little curry powder; of chutney; of fried onions, mush- rooms, &c., &c. It can also he made with beef and veal broth and treated as above, but in none of these forms could he regarded as the true Oriental dish. After many trials, for the purpose of producing rice Receipt J 7 .... A for boiling in its most perfect condition to accompany a curry, rice for curry.T i 3 Variations. that is with every grain separate, sufficiently cooked hut not soft, and white as snow, I can recommend the following:—Take six ounces of good Patna rice, sift, wash, and pick out all foreign seeds, &c. > Throw it into a saucepan containing two quarts of boiling water with a small teaspoonful of salt and the juice of half a lemon, which makes it white. Stir with a wooden spoon, and in about ten or twelve minutes the rice should be sufficiently cooked ; this may he ascer- tained by pressing a few grains, which should he still firm, but softened throughout, without a hard portion in the centre. If so, add a pint of cold water to check the boiling at once, and then drain all the water from the saucepan, leaving the rice therein only. Set it on the hot plate, covered, not by the lid but by a napkin, so That the rice may dry, giving it a shake or a stir occasionally, when every grain will be separate. Serve on a hot dish with cover until it reaches the table.* Passing rapidly on without naming the ordinary Varia- and well-known service of cold meats, fresh andtlons’ preserved, poultry and game, open or under paste, in some form, to be found in profusion on table or sideboard, and in which this country is unrivalled, a * The above receipt is based on the instructions given in one of the best practical cook’s guides I know, a work written by an accom- plished officer of Her Majesty’s service in India. Culinary Jottings : a Treatise in Thirty Chapters, &c. By Wyvern. Fifth Edition. Madras. Higginbotham & Co. 1S85. A most interesting and sug- gestive work to the European, although designed for Anglo-Indians. In my opinion no culinary library, even of modest pretensions, is com- plete without it. - Q1 H Food and Feeding. Garnish for cold dishes. Aspic jelly. Author’s receipt. hint or two relating to some lighter cold entrees may- be suggested. It is scarcely possible to treat these apart from the salad which, admirable by itself, also forms the natural garnish for cold dishes. A simple aspic jelly, little more than the consomme of yesterday, first diluted, then flavoured with a little lemon-peel and tarragon vinegar, furnishes another form of gar- nish, or a basis in which to present choice morsels in tempting forms, such as poultry livers, ox-palates, quenelles, fillets of game, chicken, wild fowl or fish, prawns, plover’s eggs, &c., associated with a well- made salad. On this system an enterprising cook can furnish many changes of light but excellent nutritious dishes, for summer breakfasts and lunches, as well as for dinner. Aspic jelly, however, is now so popular, and deservedly so, that a special receipt, to which personal trials and consideration have been given under my own eye, as in all such offered in the text, is here presented as a ready way of preparing it. For this purpose the Liebig Company’s Extract is particularly useful and efficient. Hence it is quite unnecessary to make now, as formerly, a clear meat stock with much labour for this purpose; especially when, as in hot weather, it will not keep well, and prolonged stove heat should not be employed unnecessarily. At very short notice a capital aspic can be prepared as follows :—Slice a large carrot or turnip, a small head of celeiy, adding two cloves, pepper and salt, a bay leaf, a small bunch of sweet herbs ; all to be put into a saucepan with three pintsAspic Jelly, Salad-making. 115 of water and allowed to simmer for two hours until Aspic reduced to two pints. Pour off through a strainerjelly' and let stand until cold. When required, add two ounces of gelatine (in hot summer weather; one and a half ounce suffices when it is cool) to a pint of the cold liquor, and let it stand two hours. Then heat the remaining pint to boiling point and add to the preceding, with a thin paring of lemon peel, a table-spoonful of lemon juice, the same of mild vinegar, and one or two tea-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. At this point pour in two or three whites of eggs, lightly beaten, and stir well to tine the liquor. Bring the whole just up to the boiling point; then at once remove and keep on the hot plate close by, but not boiling, for three minutes only. Take it off and set it aside for three minutes longer, and then strain through flannel. It is now quite hot and clear; stir in at once a large tea-spoonful of Liebig Company’s Extract, and set aside to cool until wanted. On salad so much has been written, that one might Salads, suppose, as of many other culinary productions, that to make a good one was the result of some difficult and complicated process, instead of being simple and easy to a degree. The materials must be secured instruc- fresh, are not to be too numerous and diverse, must be sa°iad-f°r well cleansed and washed without handling, and all making, water removed as far as possible. It may be made by the hostess, or by some member of the family, sufficiently interested to regard the process as an exercise of fine art, immediately before the meal, and be kept cool until wanted. Not many servantsi 16 Food and Feeding. can ^rus^C(l to execute the simple details involved salad. in cross-cutting the lettuce, endive, or what not, but two or three times in a roomy salad howl; placing one salt-spoonful of salt and half that quantity of pepper in a tablespoon, which is to bo filled three times consecutively with the best fresh olive oil, stirring each briskly until the condi- ments have been thoroughly mixed, and at the same time distributed over the salad. This is next to be tossed thoroughly but lightly, until every portion glistens, scattering meantime a little finely chopped fresh tarragon and chervil, with a few atoms of chives over the whole, so that sparkling green particles spot, as with a pattern, every portion of the leafy surface. Lastly, but only immediately before serving, one small table-spoonful of mild French or, better still, Italian red wine-vinegar is to be sprinkled over all, fol- lowed by another tossing of the salad.* The uncooked Additions, tomato, itself the prince of salads, may be sliced and similarly treated for separate service, or added to the former, equally for taste and appearance. A tomato, however, should never be cut—it may have been pre- viously trimmed a little—until the moment it is wanted for eating, as the juice and pulp of a ripe fruit drain away, and leave only its cellular frame- work, if it has been divided half an hour beforehand. Then, as much of the skin as can be easily removed, should be got rid of. Cold boiled asparagus served Cold with a mayonnaise forms a dish of its kind not to be asparagus. surpassed. At present ranking, when the quality is * A salad for five or six persons is supposed.Salads of Cooked Vegetables. 117 fine, as an expensive luxuiy, there is no reason why, Salads, with the improved methods of cultivating this delicious and wholesome vegetable, it should not be produced in great abundance, and for less than half its present price.* As to the manifold green stuffs which, changing with the season, may he presented as salad, their name is legion ; and their choice must he left to the eater’s judgment, fancy, and digestion, all of which of course vary greatly. A favourite combination is that of uncooked celery Celery and cut in rings, with small slices or strips of cookedteet’ beet. This should be always served on small plates, one sufficing for each person’s consumption. Kidney Potato, potatoes and beet sliced, well sprinkled with parsley ^£iaC and chervil, and a few atoms of tarragon, finely cut, truffles, is another; slices of celeriac (boiled) may he added. An agreeable salad, striking to the eye, when cost is a matter of indifference, may he made with slices of kidney potato and fine black truffles of equal size—or of slices of celeriac and truffles mixed, immediately before serving, with a well-made “ remoidacle ” sauce. “Saiad- Remoulade is a mayonnaise, into which one or two hard-boiled yolks of eggs and a little mustard have moulade.” been smoothly incorporated by rubbing in the powdered yolk little by little during the making of the sauce in the usual way. A Japanese vegetable, ‘‘Stachys tuberifera,” each small tuber cut in two, “ stachys raw or boiled for five minutes, mixed with small ferbae»'&Ci * On asparagus, and also on salad culture, see The Parks and Gardens of Paris, by W. Robinson, F.L.S., p. 468 et seq. 2nd ed. Macmillan.i iS Food and Feeding. o discs of boiled beet and slices of raw celery is a novelty.* But there is another form of salad which is always available, and welcome, too, in any season of the year, viz., the salad of cold boiled table vegetables. An excellent basis may be made of cooked French beans, dressed as directed in the previous paragraph; for this purpose those preserved in tins may be used: greatly inferior as these are when served hot to the fresh haricots verts, they are very acceptable as salad in winter and early spring. The preserved green haricots (flageolets), similarly treated and added in equal proportion, with a garnish of sliced carrot, beet- root, or tomato, may be arranged not only as a most savoury and wholesome, but even as an elegant dish. Additions. Cold boiled potatoes,f carrots, turnips, broad beans, peas, cauliflower, and other greens, may all be em- ployed thus : combined and garnished according to the maker’s taste, which there is abundant opportunity for displaying. Salads also may be varied and made more substantial by the addition of small fillets of sole or trout, or the flavour may be heightened, if Various other salads. * The author is credited -with having introduced the above-named vegetable into this country from Japan (Gardeners' Chronicle, Jan. 7, 1888), and believes he was the first to grow it here, from some tubers which were sent him. It is very easy to cultivate, very hardy, is not injured by frost, and once planted maintains its place like a Jerusalem artichoke. As a vegetable for the table it should be boiled from fifteen to twenty minutes in salt and water, and eaten with a simple white sauce, a la poulctte, for example. f The best variety of potato for the purpose is that known as Vitelottc ; but in any case a kidney potato should be employed, if the variety named is not obtainable.Salads of Cooked Vegetables. 119 desired, by morsels of haddock, sardine, &c. Well known and appreciated as the Salade de legumes* always is at a Paris restaurant, most persons here would prefer the vegetables simply sliced, so as to preserve some of their natural form and texture, rather than cut into innumerable small cubes, as usually presented. In all cases, such salad should be kept very cool, and be dressed immediately before serving in warm weather. * Salad of Cooked Vegetables. The French salad of cold cooked vegetables, Salade de Ucjum.es, is made as follows : Take 4 oz. of carrots cut in squares of about a quarter of an inch ; 3 oz. of turnips cut in the same way ; 4 oz. of small green asparagus cut in pieces ; 4 oz. of peas, 4 oz. of French beans cut in squares like the turnips and carrots. Boil each of these vegetables separately in about a quart of water, with a teaspoonful of salt ; when cooked strain them on a cloth ; let them cool, and then place the French beaus at the bottom of a salad bowl. Arrange the other vegetables in little heaps around, first the carrots, then the peas, then the turnips, then the asparagus, so as to alternate the colours, and so on again. The rest of the peas and asparagus may be placed in the centre, and sprinkled with a spoonful of chopped ravigote (fresh tarragon, chervil, parsley, and chives). Serve with oil in vinegar apart.CHAPTER YII. Fish, and its value as food—Constituents of flesh—Of wheaten bread—And of fish compared—Varieties of fish, and their distinctive characters as food—Preparation of fish for the table—Sauces—Salmon in perfection—Faking of fish—Boast- ing of fish—Boiling and steaming—Fish soups and stews— Bouillabaise—A working man’s stew. Amount of water to solids in human body, and in butcher’s meat and poultry. Before dealing practically with the cookery of fish, it is desirable to compare its value as a nutritive material with that which is supplied by other impor- tant types of food. First, let us take as a starting-point a fact relating to the structure of the human bodjq the adequate nourishment of which is the chief aim to be accom- plished by the digestion of the varied matters which we eat and drink. Many persons are surprised to learn that from two-tliirds to three-quarters of the body, judging by weight, consist of water; and this proportion is the same, or nearly so, in all the land animals which are consumed by man for his own support. Thus, in every hundred pounds weight of healthy flesh, not artificially fattened, whether beef, mutton, or poultry, and from which the bone has been removed,121 Constituents of flesh. about seventy-five to seventy-eight pounds of water are present, and are separated as such from the solid matter of the meat in the process of cooking and digestion. Twenty-five pounds or a little less, that is to say, not quite a fourth of the whole, alone are solid, and alone contain nutritive material* Speaking roughly, these twenty-five pounds are con- stituted as follows:— About sixteen or seventeen pounds consist of the Solids oom- essential elements of the flesh or muscle, and of the aibumin- solid part of the blood, which afford the important oids> nitrogenous constituents of food ; the “ albuminoid,” or “ flesh-formers,” but not including another nitro- genous compound known as “ gelatine,” which is a type of the next group. Of this gelatine, with some allied compounds, about gelatine, one to two pounds are present; but although nitro- genous compounds, they are distinct from the pre- ceding class of flesh formers, and possess much less nutritive value as food. Of fatty matters, about two to four pounds may bo fat. reckoned. The remainder consists of what are known as Extract- “ extractives,” and of various saline and even metallic iv?s and salts matters, all of which are essential parts of the animal body. It is necessary to observe that when meat is unduly Meats fattened, as very often happens, the above proportions are greatly altered. When the meat is fat pork, for fat. example, reared for bacon making, &c., or beef which is fed in order to secure a prize for size and weight,I 22 Food and Feeding. the products are very different, containing largely fat, with less albumen and fibrin, and much less water; and the pig owes his existence in great measure to the facility with which he produces fat meat for human food, such fat being of special value to use in combina- tion with other foods which contain almost none of it. Water and We will next examine another great food staple, a bread ** typical example from the vegetable kingdom, because familiar to all and extensively used, viz., fresh wheaten bread. In one hundred parts of this forty are water, fifty are starch, about eight consist of the nitrogenous principle corresponding to the albuminoid or flesh-forming elements in flesh, and there is but a fraction of fatty matter, the remainder being salts, &c. Now let us compare with these the constituent elements of fish. There is a closer resemblance, at first sight, perhaps, than many would expect to find. Notwithstanding that the fish is an inhabitant of water, and cannot live out of it, the proportion of that element in the animal’s structure exceeds only by a small amount the proportion which is present in land animals. In other words, the solid constituents of fish as a class, and there are important exceptions here and there, are but little less in weight than those of land animals already described. Water and In one hundred pounds of fish without bone, from fiah*18 m seventy-five to eighty-five are water, or rather more than three-quarters of the whole; leaving, say, about twenty pounds of solids as a mean estimate. Of these, about twelve to eighteen pounds are nitro- genous compounds. The most important, or flesh-Table of Compositions. i 23 forming principle, is less in quantity than in meat, and there is a rather larger proportion of gelatine. The proportion of fat varies greatly. The saline matters are pretty constant, and moderate in quantity. The comparison can be more easily made by means of the following Table :—■ Analysis in General Terms of the Comrosition of the Table of Flesh of a Healthy Animal, not Artificially Fat composi- TENED, AND OMITTING THE BONES. tions already In 100 parts. described. About . . 75 to 78 are water. Leaving . . 22 ,, 25 of solids. Of these solids— About J ' 16 or 17 1 to 2 2 4 ( are albuminoids or > flesh-forming ma- V terial . . . ,, gelatine ,, fat. Nitrogenous compounds. Remainder—“ Extractives ” and salts. Analysis of Wheaten Bread. In 100 parts. About . . 40 are water. >> • . . 50 ,, starch. ?> • . 8 ,, albuminoids. Eemainder— A trace of fat with salts. Analysis of A\ iiite Fish without Bone (Sole, Whiting, Turbot, &e.). T11 100 parts. About . . 75 to 85 are water. >> • • 20 ,, solids. Of these solids— / are partly albumin- \ About . . 12 to 18 °i,ls’ with a rather | Nitrogenous I large proportion of ( compounds. N gelatine . . . / Remainder—A little fat with salts. I11 some fish where the fat is large in quantity (herring, mackerel, salmon, See.), the water is correspondingly diminished.124 Food and Feeding. o It should be stated that this estimate has been based solely on the leading and most important facts afforded by a chemical analysis, without reference to other considerations of minor importance referred to below.* * I tliink it must be admitted that while, as a general rule, the nutritive value of food is to be determined by the presence in it of certain chemical elements, harmoniously adjusted to the composition of the body to be nourished, yet there are some restorative qualities contained in animal flesh, which, although not at present fully appreciated by chemical analysis, have a value of no mean order, demonstrative chiefly by empirical observation. The invigorating effect of a small quantity of beef-tea, in a person suffering from inanition, may be cited in illustration ; the solid matter resulting from its evaporation being insignificant in quantity when compared with the support afforded. Now the product obtained by dealing with fish, in the same manner as we treat beef in order to obtain “ beef-tea,” is greatly inferior in this restorative quality, although the solids present are larger in quantity in “fish-tea” than in that of meat, being chiefly gelatine. I have had the following experiments performed in the most accurate manner, which will show in part the nature of the chemical difference. One pound of rumpsteak, one pound of turbot, each without skiu and bone, the former freed from fat, were thus separately treated. The flesh was passed tv-ice through a sausage-machine, and sufficient cold water to cover (one pint) was added. After standing one hour, the mass was heated to boiling point, and allowed to simmer ten minutes, then strained through calico, and the contents of the strainer washed with water : a little floating fat was removed (in the case of the beef). Each of the liquids was evaporated on a water bath to the consistence of a soft extract. Beef-prrdud. Weight of extract, 276 grains or 3'91 percent. In this product 5 per cent, of gelatine was present. Fish-product. Weight of extract, 396 grains or 5'6 per cent. In this product the gelatine amounted to 21 '8 per cent.Value of Fish as compared with Meat. 125 We may now arrive at an approximative estimate Value of of the place which fish occupies as nutrient material compared among the other products which, the animal kingdom with that offer to men. Fish is inferior to flesh not in the quality, hut in the quantity of certain constituents, viz., the albuminoids or flesh-formers, of which it contains fully a third less than ordinary meat. It contains more gelatine; its “ extractives ” are less valuable than the extractives of meat. As a rule, fat is almost absent; in certain varieties it is abundant. Fish is an aliment well adapted for persons whose Excellent physical labour is not considerable : but the deficient elements can be easily supplied from other sources, as wo shall see hereafter. The popular estimate of the value of fish as an article of nutritious diet rates it, I think, below its value; and it deserves to be more largely consumed than it is. At the same time it must be admitted that the high price which the finest sorts obtain make them costly forms of food, so that they must, by a large proportion of the community, be regarded as articles of luxury for occasional and not for frequent use. I may further remark that the list of fish in general Fewvarie- demand by the public is a restricted one. The force a3f00d; of habit, together with the entire absence of interest or curiosity on the part of our countrymen in relation to diet, has led to a conventional usage, limiting greatly and disadvantageous! y the variety of fish which would otherwise arrive at the market. Sole, whiting, haddock, mackerel, cod, salmon, turbot, trout, smelt, and red mullet, form a group to which a large126 Food and Feeding. o due to habit. The easiest of digestion and most delicate; the most substan- tial. Oil in fish. proportion of Britisli households in purchasing fresh fish as a rule strictly limit their orders. Again, at almost every hotel, coffee-room, or public restaurant here, and whatever the hour of day, it is rare indeed if the waiter summoned to an applicant demanding fish docs not first suggest the inevitable fried sole, what- ever else he may have to offer; and it is generally accepted as probably the safest order to give, and the most likely to be promptly executed. No desire for variety in material or in cookery is manifested, for if the host suggested something less familiarly known, a troublesome doubt as to his motive would probably be aroused in the mind of the guest. Relative to the list of fish just given, it may be remarked that the whiting, the smelt, and the sole are the most delicate in flavour, and the easiest of digestion; fitting them admirably to the invalid commencing after illness to make a trial of solid food; the two former being little less nutritious than the sole, which is, moreover, susceptible of very varied treatment in high-class cooking for the production of elegant entrees. The turbot, rightly esteemed, is stronger food, and agrees well with most persons. The cod for some is not quite so readily taken ; but is not only more palatable, but is sometimes more easily assimilated when “ crimped.” The same may be said of the salmon, a leading characteristic of which is the presence of fat. This element in fish is more apt to disagree with the stomach than fat from other sources ; and on this account it is, that many either avoid, or eat sparingly of salmon. As the fat is chiefly found127 Selection and Preparation of Fish. in the underside of the fish, a slice from the hack only should be taken by such persons; hut it may he taken as generally true that in the freshly killed fish the fat is more wholesome than on the second or third day after leaving the water when it becomes oily and acquires a slight characteristic taste and odour. The mackerel is another oily fish, and it disagrees with some persons accordingly; so is the red mullet, hut the oil is chiefly in the liver, and gives the fish its peculiar flavour and value. The herring tribe abound in oil, as we shall see hereafter. Another list of fish which well deserves attention is headed by the Dory, an admirable fish with a peculiar firm, short, flakey, and very white flesh, belonging to the first rank in all respects, and not sufficiently appreciated. The brill, the grey mullet, Fish less the haddock, the fresh herring and the flounder ^u^affoni- follow, all excellent food, and wanting only proper mg excei- treatment in the kitchen to make them very palat- able. Then the herring, the pilchard, and smaller varieties of the family, by reason of their abundance, the facility with which they are preserved, and of the fat which they contain, furnish large supplies of useful food for the working man. Next in order the skate and the plaice, wdiile their price also brings them, or should do so, within the range of the poor; in nutritive qualities they rank higher than the sole and whiting. But besides all these there are fish, which may be Fish of the placed if not in the first, yet certainly in the second class111Food and Feeding. 128 o but excel- lent in quality, not suf- ficiently known. Congers and the eel family. rank, many of which are practically unknown to ninety-nine out of every hundred London house- keepers. First may he named the Wolf-fish, or Cat- fish, which, although unlike in. appearance to the usual occupants of a fishmonger’s shop, is a white fish, of excellent quality. It lives almost entirely on Crustacea, a circumstance, as Yarrell long ago pointed out, always associated with excellence in the fish so fed. The superiority of the cod caught at the Dogger Bank is partly due to the same cause, as their food at this spot is largely crustacean. The halibut, from the North Sea, closely related to the turbot, is good and substantial food, and when large, as it often is, is also very cheap. The sea-bream, not unlike a large freshwater perch, and the basse, which has been sometimes styled a white salmon, are both useful varieties which have never received the attention they deserve, and which may be presented simply yet effectively at table. The gurnard is much better known, and an excellent dish may be made with it. Among cheap fish, which might be obtained in any quantity and at a very small price, arc the ling and hake, related closely to the cod, but chiefly used at present as salted fish and exported; the thornback, of the same family as the skate, and equal in quality; the pollack, a substantial whiting, and the coal-fish, of the same family, but second in order of quality, are both good when in season; a proviso which, it is to be remembered, applies equally to every variety. I shall but enumerate the conger—excellent for soup and stew making; the whole tribe of eels with theirSelection and Preparation of Fish. 129 abounding fatty constituents; and the sturgeon with a flesh approaching in quality nearer than any other fish to that of meat; besides all the fresh-water fish, Fresh, such as pike, tench, perch, &c., of which the supply £S^ter is, by comparison with sea fish, limited; following on which there is still a large number of minor fish which it would be tedious to particularise. The fish for the day’s consumption haying been Prepara- selected, a remark or two may be made on its^ffor preparation for the table. This commences in the tlie table, hands of the fishmonger, as soon as it has become the property of the purchaser. Before entering into his possession, the fish has to undergo the process technically known as “cleaning.” This differs “ Clean- considerably according to the fish to be dealt thffiShy with, but in all cases it involves the loss of what is monger, often a valuable portion of nutritive matter. The gills, liver, intestines, &c., are first removed, often some skin, then portions of the fins, sometimes the head also. All these are known as “ cuttings,” and are sold at a low price to the poor, at the close of the day, many of whom thoroughly appreciate their value and profit thereby. To illustrate the result of this process for the An illus- purchaser, let us see what happens in one instance, as what*this an example, perhaps a somewhat extreme one, but means, nevertheless occurring many times daily in every fishmonger’s shop. A pair of soles is bought and ordered to be sent home in fillets: eight fillets accordingly arrive. The soles were first skinned, the internal parts taken out, after which a long130 Food and Feeding. A solo “ clean- ed ” is half wasted. The cook’s duty. Sauces, for fried and broiled fish. fillet, consisting of all the flesh, on either side of the central hone, both front and hack, was removed, making four from each fish. The whole skeleton, with the head, fins and tail, forming an entire piece, remains as “ cuttings ” in the shop. Now this piece will be found just equal to the fillets in weight, constituting in fact one half of the fish; and it will make excellent stock for soup, a form of food greatly neglected in this country. For in utilising fish, as far as possible, and in circumstances where a strict economy must be regarded, the soft parts of almost any fish may be cooked apart, so that the skeleton, head and fins may be utilised for stock, or better still, to make the foundation of the sauce in- tended to accompany the fish when served. It may be unnecessary to say that these parts are useless for that purpose when already cooked, as by boiling, frying, &c. As a general observation, it may be said that in pre- paring fish for the table by the cook, sufficient trouble is not taken to remove some portion of the bones; this can be advantageously done by a clever hand, without disfiguring or injuring the fish. Sauces should be appropriately served: for example, the fat sauces, as hollandaise, and other forms of melted butter, are an appropriate complement of hot boiled fish, while mayonnaise is similarly related to cold. These and their variations, which are numerous, may also ac- company both broiled and fried fish ; but the latter are often more wholesome and agreeable when served ■with only a squeeze of lemon-juice, and a few grains of the zest, if approved, when a fresh green lemon131 Fish and its Sauces. is not to bo had — and it rarely can be here. But the juice of the mushroom is preferred, in the form of catchup, and no doubt justly, by some, for the grill. Endless variations and additions may be made according to taste on these principles. But there is another no less important principle, viz., Fish that the fish itself often furnishes a sauce from its own juices, more appropriate than some of the com- furnish plicated and not very digestible mixtures prepared by ^uc^11 the cook. Thus “melted butter”—which is regarded as essentially an English sauce—when intended to accompany fish, should not be, as it almost invariably is, a carelessly made compound of butter, flour, and water; but in place of the last-named ingredient there should be a concentrated liquor made from the trim- shell-flsh mings of the fish itself, with the addition of a few ^s|ar' drops of lemon juice, and strengthened, if necessary, from other sources, as from shell-fish of some kind. Thus an every-day sauce of wholesome and agreeable uiustra- qaality is easily made: and this principle finds its tl0ns' highest illustration in that admirable dish, the sole with sauce au vin blanc of the French, or, as associated with shell-fish, in the sole a la nor mantle.* This is * A leading review, in a friendly notice of the above when it first appeared, spoke of a “ mistake ” made by me in “ imagining a sole en matelote normande to be a simpler dish than it really is.” I certainly intended the sentence in which it is named, and which is reprinted above without change, to signify my high respect for this finished dish, and if I have not made this clear, I hereby desire to do so. It was named to show that the principle of employing the juices of fish, and especially of shell-fish, as a sauce, finds its highest expression in the sole Ci la normande. Turning to my copy of Jules Gfouffe’s classical work, pp. 621-2 of the original edition, Paris, 1867, I see that he remarks132 Food and Feeding. Paris far from sea- coast. Keally fresh salmon not possi- ble there, for rea- sons given. well served in Paris of course, but it can be found in perfection on the coast of France, especially in the south, due in part probably to the abundant garnish of shell-fish, which are found in finer condition and fresher there, while the sole bears transit and keeps well, for it does not inhabit the southern waters. Some fish furnish there own sauce in a still simpler manner, of which an illustration no less striking is at hand in the easiest, but perhaps best mode of cooking a red mullet, viz., baking it, and securing the gravy of delicious flavour, which issues abundantly from the fish, chiefly from the liver, as its only sauce. Paris suffers in the matter of fish by distance from the seaboard. London has a far fresher supply. No Frenchman knows what salmon is until he tastes, sometimes with much astonishment, a Severn or Christchurch fish, taken from the water in the morn- ing, crimped on arrival in London in the afternoon, such as our leading fishmongers can supply during all the spring and summer in time for dinner. It is one of the few things which we are able to offer our neigh- bours without fear of rivalry. A Parisian cannot obtain a salmon until the very delicate oil of the fish, by reason of the lapse of time, say sixteen to twenty- four hours after having been killed, has acquired a certain flavour, which is in fact the result of com- specially thereupon, “la reeette que j’indique n’a pour base comme on a pu constater, que l’essence cle poisson, ” precisely warranting what I had stated. It is understood, of course, that these juices are com- bined with a good veloutd to make the sauce, and that it may be garnished further to any extent, according to the luxury demanded by the guest, or for the entertainment,133 New Method of Cooking Fish. mencing decomposition. That flavour is for him, and for all those who cannot eat a salmon when newly killed, the natural and inherent flavour of the fish. Such persons are surprised to find that this distinctive characteristic is wholly absent in the fresh fish. The fine nutty flavour of the latter, and the crisp brittle quality of the flakes which the flesh offers after crimping, are wholly unknown wherever the salmon has to be carried by a transit approaching in length to a duration of twenty-four hours. Perhaps I ought to add, lest a doubt should exist in Crimping the mind of any one, that crimping thus done inflicts of salmon no pain whatever on the fish ; were it otherwise I inflicts would not sanction it for any consideration whatever. n° pam’ To cook crimped salmon in perfection, a slice should be plunged into an ample saucepan of boiling salted water, and allowed to boil eight minutes only. Closely related to the baking of fish is another mode Roasting of cooking it, which is applicable to nearly every variety, °f fish and which has the advantage of retaining all the nutri- tive material, while the juices and the characteristic flavour are preserved in a manner not attained by any other process. It is rarely practised, because any other than those conventional methods which have been universally employed in cookery are slowly adopted by the public, until attention has been thoroughly aroused on the subject. Nevertheless the method I before tbe am about to advocate is widely applicable, and well fire ’ deserves at least to rank among the other and better known modes of preparing fish. It consists in placing the fish, after the usual cleaning, entire, if ofFood and Feeding. i3 4 juices not to eva- porate, serving for bast- ing and for sauce. Nutri- ment not wasted; flavour retained. Appli- cability of process to many kinds. moderate size, say from a sole to a small turbot or dory, in a block tin, copper-plated, or pure nickel disk, adapted to the form and size of the fish, but a little deeper than tlie thickness of it, so as to retain all the juices; which by exposure to the heat will flow out. First, however, the surface of the fish is to be lightly spread with butter, and a morsel or two added round it; the whole is then to be placed in a Dutch or American oven, in front of a clear fire.* The advantages of this method are, that the fish is cooked entirely in its own juices, which are abundant, and form the best sauce, and that these juices which contain part of the nutriment and much of the charac- teristic flavour are saved and utilised; lastly, the direct action of the fire browning the surface of the fish, gives that appetising flavour which is the especial charm of the “ roast ” and the “ grill,” and which is known to appreciative palates as “tasting of the fire.” In fact, the proper term for denoting the method described, is that of “ roasting,” for the fish is literally roasted before the fire, and basted in its own gravy; and with the same advantage in result as that which roasted meat possesses by universal consent over that which is baked in an oven. It is necessary to guard against over-roasting so as to dry the fish and evaporate the gravy ; and if through carelessness this condition has * Mr. W. Burton, some time ago of Oxford Street, made for me an oven and dishes expressly for the purpose of cooking fish before the fire. The oven is a modification of that known as the “ American, ” being rather deeper, from before backwards, and much shallower, from above downwards, on account of the flat form of fish not occupying the space which is required by joints of meat,Baking and Boiling Fish. 135 been reached, the fish should be moistened by the addition of a little light stock before serving; and this is always done on the dish in which the cooking has taken place. The method is susceptible of innumera- ble variations to accommodate different tastes. Portions of fish prepared as fillets may be treated as well as entire fish ; garnishes of all kinds, as shell-fish, &c., may be added, flavouring also with fine herbs and condiments, according to taste. I may add that the Baking, process may be conducted in a properly ventilated ^ygs goot oven where a clear fire is really not to be had, pro- results, ducing a result nearly, although not quite equal, to true roasting ; or the dish may be first placed in the oven, and be finished before the fire, which is better. Cooked, however, as first described, such a dish may be welcome at any table; in preparing red mullet, for example, as just referred to, it is inimitable; while a fresh haddock or a dory, stuffed or not, take higher rank by being thus treated. But the working man also can thus advantageously cook before his kitchen fire, in a common Dutch oven, some fillets of plaice or skate with a slice or two of bacon; the dish to be filled or garnished with some previously boiled haricots, and by this means he may secure an economical and most savoury meal, which is at the same time nutritious. This is but a single illustration among many which might be adduced, of what may be done by this simple method for those whose resources are of the slenderest kind. Having regard to this question of economy and Boiling preserving the juices of the fish, it should never be wasteful process.Food and Feeding. 136 Steaming prefer- able. Fish soups, &c. A French receipt. forgotten that by boiling it in any manner, considerable waste of nutritive material occurs. Relative to this subject I have made numerous experiments, and find that the loss in weight by boiling varies with different fish, and also with the mode of operating. It is rarely as low as five per cent., it is generally much more, and I have known it to reach thirty per cent., the water always containing the corresponding amount of lost animal matter. In order to avoid waste as much as possible, the fish should be placed in absolutely boiliug water, which should contain a good proportion of salt. The liquor in which the fish has thus been cooked, I have evaporated, and have obtained from it, in solid deposit, no less than four per cent, of the original weight of the fish; a very startling quantity, constituting it in fact a fish broth. There is no doubt then that steaming is a far more economical process than boiling, and ought to he substituted for the latter when fish is to he cooked by heated water only. To return to the utilisation of the commoner kinds of fish, and of fish trimmings or cuttings, in the composition of stock. From such materials may be made a soup, or better still a stew of fish, in very savoury and nutritious form, for the economical pur- chaser; or a delicate and attractive dish may be presented for an experienced palate. I may offer as an example of the former a receipt from Gouffe, for making a good “consomme” of fish only, without any meat, and therefore a soup maicjre. Put into a large frying-pan, with about three-137 Fish Soups. quarter pound of butter, five large carrots, four onions, three heads of celery, four shalots; all the foregoing to be cut in slices. One head of garlic (better omitted here), three cloves, two bay leaves, one sprig of thyme, twelve sprigs of parsley. Lightly fry them till they acquire a reddish colour. Add a bottle of dry Sauterne, and eight pints of water; boil, skim, and then add one ounce and a half of salt, and two pinches of mignonette pepper. Put in the stew-pan six or seven lbs. of gurnets cut into pieces; next add the bones of six whiting, keeping the fillets for clari- fying. Let it simmer for two hours on the side of the fire. When it is finished strain through a cloth. Pound the fillets of whiting with two whites of eggs; Clarify the consomme of fish with the whites of egg and fillets of whiting. The vegetables must be suffi- ciently fried to give the consomme a light tint. Op. cit. p. 348. The next, a simpler receipt, can be recommended, An Eng- after numerous trials, as an excellent family fish- ^ptre" soup. Put three oz. of butter into a stewpan; add two carrots sliced; one onion and a shalot, in thin slices; then cloves, a little thyme, and some parsley. Fry them gently until of a reddish tint; then add three pints of cold water. Let it boil, skimming occa- sionally. Then add a small fresh haddock, bones and all, cut up into pieces, and the head and bones of two whitings, setting aside the fillets. A cod’s head, or that of a turbot; or the fresh bones, head and fins of two large soles, the fillets of which are required T138 Food and Feeding. Fish soup. To thicken it. To gar- nish it. Marseilles receipt for bouilla- baise. for another dish, may take the place of the foregoing. Add some salt and a little pepper. Let all simmer together for two hours gently, at the corner of the fire; take out the bones and pass all the rest through a coarse strainer. Divide the fillets of whiting into two or three small portions each, boil for a few minutes in some of the stock, add a little fresh green chervil and parsley chopped, not too finely, and serve all together in a tureen. If the soup is preferred somewhat thicker in body than this receipt produces, let it he made so by adding some farinaceous matter in small quantity, as baked flour or, if preferred, a tablespoonful of white “ roux ” (that is, a little flour well mixed with butter in a stewpan over the fire, cooked, but not allowed to brown), and this is unquestionably an improvement. It is unnecessary to clarify fish soups; if other garnish is desired, quenelles of whiting may be substituted for the fillets; and some of them may have a little coral (spawn of the lobster) added to furnish flavour and colour. A further change may be made by adding fillets of other fish, or a few shell-fish. To make a bouillabaise in the Marseillaise fashion* take three or four pounds of fish; whiting, sole, small haddock, red mullet, and, following the Mar- seilles receipt strictly throughout, a very small conger- eel or a portion of one. All these are to be cleaned, cut in slices, and their bones removed; two dozen of mussels to be added. * Referred to at p. 101.139 A Boui/labaise: a Common Steiv. Put into a stewpan two onions sliced, two tomatoes peeled, a carrot sliced; then, in a coarse net bag, the following:—two hay leaves, two slices of lemon, half the zest of a Seville orange, two cloves, a little thyme, several sprigs of parsley, a clove of garlic, two red capsicums cut, and a little saffron: add salt and pepper, and a little pimento. Place the pieces of fish over these, pour in six tablespoonfuls of olive oil; add three pints of water, with two or three glasses of white French wine; cover, and let all boil well together for half an hour. The whiting, however, should be put in only a quarter of an hour before finishing. Serve the whole in a soup tureen with slices of toasted bread apart; or place them in the tureen before filling. The following receipt is offered for an economical dish, or fish stew suitable for a working man’s family :— Take three or four pounds of hake, ling, skate, or Working haddock, and a pound of “ cuttings or trimmings,” fisl1 which are the best part of the fish for stock making. Remove all the fish from the bones, break up or pound the latter, and set aside with any portion of head there may be, and the cuttings. Put into a saucepan, over the fire, two ounces of lard and two or three onions sliced, and let them fry until brown; then add two quarts of water and all the pounded bones and trimmings, some parsley or other green herbs, pepper and salt. Let the whole simmer for three hours, adding the amount of water lost by evapora- tion. Strain out the bones, bits of skin, &c., add the fish in pieces, and boil gently ten or fifteen minutes.140 Food and Feeding. Thicken with sufficient flour mixed smoothly with a small portion of stock, and added before finishing. In order to make the dish complete and substantial, a few small suet dumplings should be well boiled, and put into the tureen.CHAPTER VIII. The combination of dishes to form a meal—Three specific systems of arranging the daily meals—Characteristics of each meal— Breakfast—Lunch—Dinner of two kinds—Value of initial soup—Plan of dishes to follow—Hors-d'ceuvres, &c. The art of combining dishes to form a meal now demands our consideration. The occupations of man in a civilised state, no less than the natural suggestions of his appetite, require stated and regular times for feeding. But the number of these set apart in the twenty-four hours differs considerably among different races, and also among different classes of society. It must suffice for us to consider the subject only so far as the limits of Europe are concerned. Taking a general view of this subject, it may be said that there are three principal systems to which all varieties of habit may be reduced. From an English point of view, these may be regarded as— 1. The French system of two meals a day ; adopted by several other Continental nations. 2. The system of provincial life (Great Britain), or four meals, with which the habits of Holland and Northern Germany are more or less analogous. 3. The system of town life, of which London is the type, or three meals a day. 1. In the French system, the slight refreshment Daily meals should be regular. Number varies in different races. Reducible to three chief systems.system. 142 Food and Feeding. served in the early morning, in the form of coffee or chocolate, with a rusk or a roll of bread, does not amount to a meal. It is only a dish, and that a light one, and not a combination of dishes, which is then taken. At or about noon a substantial meal, the dejeuner, is served ; and at six or seven o’clock, an ample dinner. Such is the two-meal system, and it appears to answer well throughout the West and South of Europe. 2. English 2. What I have termed the provincial system con- system sists of a substantial breakfast at eight or nine, a dinner at one or two, a light tea about five, and a supper at nine or ten. It is this which is popular throughout our own provincial districts, and also among middle-class society of our northern districts throughout both town and country. As already indi- cated, the usages of the Dutch and of their immediate neighbours on the sea coast, as well as of the great resembles German nation, correspond more to this than to the Germany first-named system. The number of meals may be regarded as the same, although not taken at the hours named above ; coffee, and not tea, being taken morning and afternoon. 3. That of 3. The prevailing system of London, and of the society numerous English families throughout the country whose habits are formed from partial residence in town, or by more or less intimate acquaintance with town life, is that of three meals daily. In general terms the breakfast takes place between eight and ten, the lunch about two; the dinner from half-past six to half-past eight, or even later, 1. The FrenchCharacteristics of various Meals. H 3 In all cases each meal has its own specific character. Breakfast Thus, in this country, breakfast is the most irregular ckaracter- iu its service, and least of all demands general and istics. intimate coherence of the party assembled. Individual interests concerned in the arrival of the letter-bag, in the morning news, in plans for the day, in cares of coming business, &c., are respected. Provision for acknowledged dietetic peculiarities on the part of individuals is not forgotten, and everyone comes or goes as he pleases. At lunch the assembly is still somewhat uncertain. Lunch, Thus some members of the family are absent without remark; intimate friends may appear without special invitation; while those less intimate can be asked with small ceremony. Occupations of pleasure or of business still press for pursuit during the afternoon, and the meal for such may not be too substantial. It should suffice amply to support activity; it should never be so considerable as to impair it. Here may be Afternoon just named an invention of comparatively recent date,tea' afternoon tea; which, however, cannot be reckoned as a meal. In reality a pleasant excuse to mark the hour for friendly gossip with a hostess “ at home,” it may be the occasion of undesirable habits, if enough solid food is eaten to impair digestion and ‘‘spoil” the coming dinner. But dpropos of tea, many of us might with advantage avoid the sugar and the cream, which at this hour interfere with the stomach far more than does the infusion itself, and add in their place a delicate slice of lemon neither thicker nor larger than a halfcrown, the flavour of which—fragrant peel and a hint of acidFood and Feeding. T44 —combines with the aroma of good tea, without in the least disguising or flattening it as the conventional additions do ? It would be almost as rational to add cream and sugar to wine, as to fine and delicately flavoured tea! Occasionally tea is served with lemon in this country, but it is mostly added in excess. A very slight shaving, which contains both peel and pulp, is ample for an ordinary cup. Dinner; The last meal of the three, dinner, has characters wholly different from the preceding. The prime occu- pations of the day are over; the guests are known and numbered ; the sentiment is one of reunion after the dispersion of the day—of relaxation after its labours, sports, or other active pleasures. Whatever economy of time may have been necessary in relation to the foregoing meals, all trace of hurry should disappear at dinner. A like feeling makes the supper of the “provincial” system a similarly easy and enjoyable meal. And all this is equally true of dinner, whether it unites the family only, or brings an addition of guests. General conversation : the events and per- sonal incidents of the day, the current topics of the hour, are discussed in a light spirit, such as is com- patible with proper attention to the dishes provided. All that follows late dinner should for the most part be amusement—it may be at the theatre, an evening party, or a quiet evening at home. There should be the most ample time, however, for every coming engagement, important, ancl security for some intervening rest for digestion. Dinner, then, is the only meal which—as the greater includes the less—need be discussed in the third part145 Dinner a Period of Relaxation. of our subject, which claims to treat of custom and art to be dis- in combining dishes to form a repast. With the length,** requirements and under the circumstances just speci- fied, it should not be a heavy meal, but it should be sufficing. No one after dinner should feel complete satiety or repletion, with a sense of repugnance at the idea of eating more; but all should still enjoy the conviction that a good meal furnishes delightful and refreshing occupation. Dinners are of two kinds—the ordinary meal of the Dinners cf family, and the dinner to which guests are invited. two klnde’ There is a third dinner in this country, of common— too common — occurrence, viz., the public dinner, which is essentially a British institution, and cannot be passed by in silence. The late dinner should never include children. It The is a meal which is in every way unsuited to them; and they are quite unfitted to take part in its func- tions ; besides, the four-meal system is better adapted to their requirements of growth and digestion in early life. A family dinner may usually consist of a soup, fish, substantial and a light entree, a roast and a sweet; the light entree may even be omitted; if, how- ever, the meal is required to be more substantial, a joint may be served in addition after the fish; but this should be very rarely necessary. A special dish of vegetables may be advantageously placed before or after the roast, according to circumstances; and supplementary vegetables should be always at hand. Cheese or a light savoury trifle may complete the menu. uFood and Feeding. 146 Why is the dish, soup The rationale of the initial soup has often been dis- cussed : some regard it as calculated to diminish digestive power, on the theory that so much fluid taken at first dilutes the gastric juices. But there appears to be no foundation for this belief: a clear soup, or the fluid constituents of a puree, disappear almost immediately after entering the stomach, being absorbed by the proper vessels, and in no way inter- fere with the gastric juice which is stored in its appropriate cells ready for action. The habit of commencing dinner with soup has without doubt its origin in the fact that aliment in this fluid form—in fact, ready digested—soon enters the blood and rapidly refreshes the hungry man, who, after a considerable fast and much activity, often sits down with a sense of exhaustion to commence his principal meal. In two or three minutes after taking a plate of good warm consomme, the feeling of exhaustion disappears, and irritability gives way to the gradually rising sense of good-fellowship with the circle. Some persons are accustomed to allay exhaustion by taking a glass of sherry before food—a gastronomic no less than a physiological blunder, since it overstimulates and tends to injure an empty stomach, while it depraves the palate. On the other hand, the soup introduces at once into the system a small instalment of ready- digested food, and saves the period of time which, in the absence of soup, must be spent by the stomach in deriving some portion of nutriment from solid aliment; and thus the organ of digestion itself is rapidly strengthened for its forthcoming duties.The Order of Dishes at Dinner. 147 Few persons will be found to dispute the second Next, fish, place in order to fish, although this arrangement is in some quarters an open question : its discussion, however, can scarcely he regarded as within the limit of our space. The third dish should consist of the The most chief meat, the joint, if desired: and this is un- substan- doubtedly the place for it, if a substantial meal is required. The chief nutritious supply being thus afforded to the system, more delicate dishes, eaten in smaller quantity, and esteemed for their special qualities of flavour, aroma, or texture, should follow in an order which makes one complementary of or introductory to the next. If a joint is not presented, a smaller dish of meat or poultry, the substantial entree such as fricandeau, cutlets, filet, or sweetbread, entree; before referred to, well garnished, are appropriate, and by many will be found preferable. Next the the roast; well-roasted bird—of game or poultry—accompanied or followed by salad ; and after this, or, if preferred, the “ le- before the roast, a dish of choice vegetables, worthy gume’ to be served alone. Then one light simple sweet, for sweet and those who take it, and a slight savoury biscuit, a savoury• grilled mushroom or a morsel of cheese completes the repast. Such a meal contains within its limits all that can be desired for daily enjoyment and use. If well and liberally served, it. is complete in every sense of the word. Dessert and its extent is a matter of individual taste ; of wines, coffee, and liqueurs I shall speak hereafter. A word about hors-d’oeuvres. It is well known that Hors- the custom exists to a very wide extent among Conti- dceuvres!Food and Feeding. T48 the “ za- kuska” of the Russians. Caviare. Remarks on hors- d’oeuvres ; nental nations of commencing either midday dejeuner or dinner by eating small portions of cold pickled fish, of raw vegetables, of highly-flavoured sausage thinly sliced, &c., to serve, it is said, as a whet to appetite. This custom reaches its highest development in the zakuska of the Russian, which, consisting of numerous delicacies of the kind mentioned, is sometimes to he found occupying a table in an anteroom to he passed between the drawing-room and dining-room; or, and more commonly, spread on the sideboard of the latter. The Russian eats a little from three or four dishes at least, and “qualifies” with a glass of strong grain spirit {vodka) or of some liqueur before taking his place at the table. Among these savoury prelimi- naries may often he found caviare in its fresh state, grey, pearly, succulent and delicate, of which most of the caviare found in this country is hut as the shadow to the substance. I have no hesitation in saying, after much con- sideration of the practice of thus commencing a meal, that there is no good warrant for it on the part of individuals endowed with fairly good appetite and digestion. For them, both pickled food and spirit are undesirable, at any rate on an empty stomach. And if appetite and digestion are wanting, the stimulant of the hors-d'oeuvres is unnatural and prejudicial. Rational means to regain appetite are indicated in such circumstances. And the hors-d'oeuvres, although attempts to transplant them here are often made, happily do not, as far as I have observed, thrive on our soil. They have been introduced here chiefly,lIors-d'CE uvrcs. 149 I think, because their presence, being demanded by foreign gastronomic taste, is supposed to be therefore necessarily correct. But the active exer- cise and athletic habits of the Englishman, his activity of body and mind in commercial pursuits, all tend to bring him to the dinner-table wanting food rather than appetite, and in no mind to ask for “whets” to increase it. Among idle men, their whose heavy lunch, liberally accompanied with necessity wine and not followed by exercise, has barely dis- appeared from the stomach at the hour of dinner, a able, piquant prelude as stimulus of appetite is more ap- preciated. Hence the original invention of hors- d'oeuvres; and their appearance in a very much slighter and more delicate form than that which has been described, still to be observed in connection with the chief repasts of the Latin races. The one plate which heralds dinner, indigenous to our country, is also one of its own best products—the oyster. But Oysters, this is scarcely a hors-d'oeuvre. In itself a single service of exquisite quality, served with attendant graces of mild and delicate vinegar or lemon juice, brown bread and butter, and a glass of light chablis for those who take it, the half-dozen natives occupying the hollow shells, and bathed in their own liquor, hold rank of a very different kind to that of the miscellaneous assortment of tit-bits alluded to. Oys- • ters are in fact the first dish of dinner and not its precursor; the preface, and not the — possibly — obtrusive advertisement. And this brings us to the dinner of invitation.CHAPTER IX. Dinners of invitation—Two kinds—Small and select—Large—The old pretentions style—Scheme of a rational dinner-party— Priority in the service of various dishes—The half-hour after dinner—Turtle and fish dinners—Curry—Sketch for a small dinner. Two dis- tinct types of “ din- ners.” The small and se- lect, and the dinner of society, large. And of this entertainment, the dinner of invita- tion, there are two very distinct kinds. First, there is the little dinner of six or eight guests, care- fully selected for their own specific qualities, and combined with judgment to obtain an harmonious and successful result. The ingredients of a small party, like the ingredients of a dish, must he well chosen to make it “complete.” Such are the first conditions to he attained in order to achieve the highest perfection in dining. Secondly, there is the dinner of society, which is necessarily large ; the number of guests varying from twelve to twenty-four. The characteristics of the first dinner are—comfort, excellence, simplicity, and good taste. Those of the second are—the conventional standard of quality, some profusion of supply, suitable display in ornament and service. It must he admitted that, with the large circle of acquaintances so commonly regarded as essential to existence in modern life, large dinners only enable usRoutine of an Old-fashioned Dinner 151 to repay our dining debts, and exercise the hospitality some which, position demands. With a strong preference, then, for the little dinners, it must he admitted that attaching the larger banquet is a necessary institution; and large6 therefore we have only to consider now how to make dinner; the best of it. No doubt the large dinner has greatly improved of greatly late ; but it has by no means universally arrived at jrfiatJed perfection. Only a few years ago excellence in quality and good taste in cuisine were often sacrificed in the en- deavour to make a profuse display. Hence, abundance without reason, and combinations without judgment, were found co-existing with complete indifference to comfort in the matters of draughts, ventilation, tempe- rature, and consumption of time. Who among the What it diners-out of middle age has not encountered many a noUong*56 time an entertainment with some such programme a?°: as the following: one of an order which, it is to be feared, is not even yet quite extinct? Eighteen or twenty guests enter a room adapted at crowded; most to a dinner of twelve. It is lighted with gas ; ^cde.ser' the chief available space being occupied by the table, surrounding which is a narrow lane, barely sufficing for the circulation of the servants. Directly—perhaps after oysters—appear turtle soups, thick and clear. A consomme is to be had on demand, but so unexpected a choice astonishes the servitor, who brings it after some delay, and cold: with it punch. Following, arrive the fish—salmon and turbot, one or both, smothered in thick lobster sauce r sherry. Four vulgar entrees promenade the circuit in single file, whereofprofusion 5152 Food and Feeding. adjuncts cold; too sub- stantial ; indiges- tible ; intermin- able dessert and wine ladies leave, and more wine. the first was always oyster patties ; after which came mutton or lamb cutlets, a vol-au-vent, &c. : hock and champagne. Three-quarters of an hour at least, perhaps an hour, having now elapsed, the saddle or haunch of mutton arrives, of which gentlemen who have patiently waited get satisfactory slices, and currant jelly, with cold vegetables or a heavy flabby salad. Then come boiled fowls and tongue, or a turkey with solid forcemeat; a slice of ham and so on, up to game, followed by hot substantial pudding, three or four other sweets, including an iced pudding; wines in variety, more or less appropriate; to be followed by a pate de foie gras, more salad, biscuits and cheese. Again, two ices, and liqueurs. Then an array of decanters, and the first appearance of red wine; a prodigious dessert of all things in and out of season, ; and particularly those which arc out of season, as being the more costly. General circulation of waiters, handing each dish in turn to everybody, under a running fire of negatives, a ceremonial of ten or fifteen minutes’ duration, to say the least. Circulation of decanters, general rustle of silks, dis- appearance of the ladies ; and first change of seat, precisely two hours and a half after originally taking it. It may be hoped that a charming companion on cither side has beguiled and shortened a term which otherwise must have been tedious. Now general closing up of men to host, and reassembling of decanters; age, quality, and vintage of wine discussed during consumption thereof. At last coffee which is neither black nor hot. Joining the ladies; music by the153 Great Improvement in Modern Dinners. daughters of the house; service of gunpowder tea, fatal to the coming night’s rest if taken in a moment of forgetfulness ; and carriages announced. Admitted that such an exhibition is impossible Enormous now in any reasonable English circle, it nevertheless ® corresponds very closely in style with that of the twenty- public dinner; a state of things without excuse.year3. And the large private dinner is still generally too long, the menu too pretentious. Let me, however, A lighter be permitted to record, equally in proof of growing repast‘ taste and as grateful personal duty, how many admirable exceptions to the prevailing custom above described are now afforded. The dinner of society Sugges- has, since the earlier editions ot this work appeared, a modern been greatly abridged in length and improved by the dinner, substitution of lighter and more delicate dishes for the solid meats of the last generation. At the same time a menu, suitable for a large party, must be framed so as to offer various dishes for choice to meet the differing tastes of numerous guests, and it must therefore be more comprehensive than that supplied to a small one, say of six or eight guests. Let us see how this is to be met. First, the soups : The soup3. it is the custom to offer a consomme, which ought to be perfect in clearness, colour, and savour, and to be served perfectly hot; containing a few vegetables, &c., variously treated—doubtless the best commence- ment, as it is the key-note of the dinner ; revealing also, as it does, nine times out of ten, the calibre of the cook to whose talent the guest is entrusted. But there is mostly an alternative of “ white soup,” and xFood and Feeding. 154 Hemarks on white soups. The fish. “ Piece de resist- ance,” when, if at all ? this is almost always a mistake. Many persons refuse it, and they are right, containing, as it gene- rally does, a considerable proportion of cream—an injudicious beginning, when there is much variety to follow ; excellent sometimes as one of three or four dishes, hut dangerous otherwise to the guest who has not an exceptionally powerful digestion. But suppose that oysters, vinegar, and chablis have just been swallowed ! A brown puree, as of game, or one of green vegetable, less frequently met with, a “Saint Germain” for example, would he safer. Two fish, of course, should always he served ; as, for instance, a slice of Severn or Christchurch salmon, just arrived from the water, for its own sake, and a fillet of white fish for the sake of its sauce and garnish, which should be therefore perfect. The next dish is, in London, a question under discussion; viz., the question of precedence to an entree, or to the piece de resistance. The custom was to postpone the appearance of the latter until lighter dishes have been despatched or declined. If, however, the English joint is required at a meal already comprehensive in the matter of dishes, and taken at a late hour, it seems more reasonable to serve it next to the fish, when those who demand a slice of meat may be expected to have an appropriate appetite, which will certainly be im- paired, equally by accepting the entrees, or fasting partially without them. But nothing so substantial as a joint is now required at a dinner of this kind ; an entree of meat at all events replaces it if wanted. Then one or two light entrees follow, and these must155 Arrangement of a Modern Dinner. necessarily be either in themselves peculiarly tempting Lighter morsels, or products of culinary skill, offering induce- ment to the palate rather than to an appetite which is no longer keen. Then the best roast possible in The roast; season, or choice of two, and a salad ; a first-rate vegetable, a slice of really fine ham, to some a most fitting accompaniment; two choice sweets, one of sweets, which may be iced ; a parmesan souffle, a herring- savoury, roe on toast, or a morsel of fine barely salted caviare, pale and pearly grey, which may be procured in two or three places at most in town, will complete the dinner. For dessert, which may be ushered in Dessert, with a couple of companion ices of delicate texture, the finest fruits in season to grace the table and for light amusement after; or simply nuts in variety, and dry biscuits; nothing between the two is tolerable, and little more than the latter is really wanted: only for decorative purposes fruit equals flowers. But it may be admitted that the diminished number of sweet entremets strengthens the plea for a supply of delicious fruits, rendering the dessert useful and agreeable as Avell as ornamental. And now that dessert is over, let me say that I do Custom of not admit the charge sometimes intimated, although retiring delicately, by foreigners, of a too obvious proclivity to self-indulgence on the part of Englishmen, in permitting the ladies to leave the table without escort to the drawing-room. The old custom of staying half an hour, or even an hour afterwards, to drink wine, which is doubtless a remnant of barbarism, has long been considered indefensible. The best'56 Wine at dessert. A short stay when ladies have left desirable. Special dinners. Turtle in various forms, Food and Feeding\ wines the liost can supply should appear in appro* priato places in the course of dinner; and after dinner drinking should he simply a demand for a glass or two more of the excellent “Mouton,” or “ Lafite; ” or of that perfect “ Pommcry and Greno,” “ Boederer,” or “ Perrier Jouet,”* which has been known to repose this dozen years or more in some snug and quiet cellar of the back basement, where goodly remnants still exist of the vintage of “ 74.” Still, the separation of the party into two portions for fifteen or twenty minutes is useful to both, and leads perhaps more completely to a general mixture of elements on reunion after than is attained by the return of the original pairs together. Whether this be so or not the ladies have a short interval for the interchange of hearsays and ideas relative to matters chiefly concerning their special interests; while the men enjoy that indispensable finish to a good dinner, an irreproachable cup of coffee and a cigarette, and the sooner they arrive the better. With the small dinners of men it can scarcely too quickly follow the last service. But marked by a special character are some dinners, which may be either small or large in relation to the number of guests, but which are necessarily limited as regards the variety of aliments served. I refer to dinners at which either turtle or fish predominates. * Let it be perfectly understood that these brands, undoubtedly choice as they are, are named without the slightest intention of selecting them for commendation beyond others, and merely as illus- trating the arrangements suggested in the text,157 Turtle and Fish Dinners, dec. I11 accordance with a principle already enunciated, a bowl of substantial stock, containing four or five broad Hakes of the gelatinous product, often miscalled “fat,” which is the chief representative of the turtle in the compound, is not a judicious prelude to a dinner arranged according to the orthodox programme, and offering the usual variety. A lover of turtle indulges freely in the soup, both thick and clear, making it in fact an important instalment of his repast; and he desires, with or without some slight interlude, to meet the favourite food again in the form of an entree. After so substantial a commencement, the dinner and what should be completed chiefly by poultry, and game if follow it. in season, and for the most part by dishes which are grilled or roasted, in contrast to the succulent morsels which have preceded. The “fish dinner,” as a speciality, also an occa-The fish sional departure from daily routine, is acceptable, dmner‘ and gratifies the taste for that delicate and pleasant food in considerable variety. But if so indulged, very few dishes ought to appear subsequently. It is a curious fact that the traditional bacon of the and beans, which appear towards the close of a ^ypgnwich Greenwich whitebait dinner, should afford another illustration of undesigned compliance with the natural law referred to at the outset, the bacon furnishing complementary fat to supply its notable absence in fish. The enjoyment of a curry—and when skilfully The curry, made it is almost universally admitted to be one of the most attractive combinations which can be offered158 Food and Feeding. to the senses of taste and smell—is only possible at a limited repast. When freely eaten, very little is ac- ceptable to the palate afterwards, exhausted as it is by the pervading fragrance of the spice and other adjuncts. Hence a curry should form the climax of a short series of dishes leading up to it: when pre- sented, as it sometimes is, among the entrees of a first course, it is wholly out of place. Sugges- Here we may appropriately take a rapid glance at a small t0 tke characteristics of the feast where the guests are dinner. few in number. The small dinner party should be seated at a round or oval table, large enough for personal comfort, small enough to admit of conversation in any direction without effort. The table should of course be fur- nished with taste, but is not to be encumbered with ornaments, floral or other, capable of obstructing sight and sound. A perfect consomme, a choice of two fish, Eight a filet or a Chateaubriand, a gigot or a fricandeau: followed by a chaudfroid, a creme dc volaille garnie, a roast and salad, a choice vegetable, and an iced souffle or charlotte; and in summer a macedoine of fresh fruits in an old china family bowl, if there is one; and lastly, a savoury biscuit; accompanying vege- tables and appropriate wines ;—may be regarded as furnishing a scheme for such a party—or a theme of which the variations are endless.* Seven or eight eight guests can thus be brought into close contact; with a gueets. jargCr number the party is apt to form two coteries, * For an illustration of this, see a series of menus at the end of Chapter XI.159 chapter. Scheme for a Small Dinner. one on each side of the host. The number is a good one also in relation to the commissariat department— eight persons being well supplied by an entree in one dish; while two dishes are necessary for ten or twelve persons. Moreover, one bottle of wine divides well in One eight; if, therefore, the host desire to give with the supplies roast one glass of particularly line ripe Corton or eight. Pomard, a single bottle is equal to the supply; and so with any other choice specimen of which a single circulation is required; and of course the rule holds equally if the circuit is to be repeated. And this leads us to the question—and an important one it is—of the Wine; to be discussed in the nextCHAPTER X. The question of wine with dinner—Should he pure hut not pre- tentious—Relation of various kinds with certain dishes— Cigarettes after dinner—Tobacco and coffee—Common water—- Aerated waters—Foreign mineral waters—Sweet drinks at dinner objectionable. Wine taken with food from time imme- morial. Its habit- ual use not dis- cussed here. Occasional indul- gence. I have already said tliat, among all civilised nations, wine in some form has for centuries been highly appreciated as a gastronomic accompaniment to food. I do not, for an instant, attempt to deny it this position. Whether such employment of it is advan- tageous from a dietetic or physiological point of view as a rule of life, is at this moment altogether another question. I am of opinion that the habitual use of wine, beer, or spirits is a physiological error, say, for nineteen persons out of twenty. In other words, the great majority of the human race, at any age or of either sex, will enjoy better health, both of body and mind, and will live longer, without any alcoholic drinks whatever, than with habitual indulgence in their use, even although such use be what is popularly understood as moderate. But I do not aver that any particular harm results from the habit of now and then enjoying a glass of reallyOn the Use and Abuse of Wine at Meals 161 fine pure wine—and, rare as tliis is, I do not think any other is worth consuming—just as one may occa- sionally enjoy a particularly choice dish; neither the one nor the other, perhaps, being sufficiently innocu- ous or digestible for frequent, much less for habitual use. Then I am disposed to admit that there are some some take persons—in the aggregate not a few—who may take ^gg®^14 small quantities of genuine light wine or beer with jury than very little if any appreciable injury. For these per- sons such drinks may be put in the category of luxu- ries permissible within certain limits or conditions, and of such luxuries let tobacco-smoking be another example. No one probably is any better for tobacco ; The effects and some people are undoubtedly injured by it; while °ar4ybaagcco others find it absolutely poisonous, and cannot inhale the indi- even a small quantity of the smoke without instantly Vldual- feeling sick or ill. And some few indulge the mod- erate use of tobacco all their lives without any evil effects, at all events, that are perceptible to themselves or to others. Eelative to these matters, every man ought to deal Each man carefully and faithfully with himself, watching rigor- judge*1 ously the effects of the smallest license on his mental honestly and bodily states, and boldly denying himself the use self, of a luxurious habit if he finds undoubted signs of harm arising therefrom. And he must perform the difficult task with a profound conviction that his judgment is very prone to bias on the side of indulgence, since the luxurious habit is so agreeable, and to refrain there- from in relation to himself and to the present opinion of society, so difficult. Be it remarked, however, thatFood and Feeding. 162 Never take wine or spirit before meals. Wine should be the genuine produce of the grape, and be honestly character ised. the opinion of society is notably and rapidly changing relative to the point in question. Having premised thus much as to what is absolutely best, I will now deal, in the spirit of compromise, with things as they are ; and let it be understood that it is in this sense that I deal with the subject. I have only now to say, first, that wine, in relation to dinner, should be served during the repast; it should never be taken, in any form or under any circumstances, before, that is, on an empty stomach, and rarely after the meal is finished. Regarded from a gastronomic point of view alone, nothing should appear after fruit but a small glass of cognac or liqueur, and coffee. The post-prandial habit of drinking glass after glass even of the finest growths of the Gironde, or of the most mature or mellow shipments from Oporto, is doubtless a pleasant, but, in the end, for many persons a costly indulgence. Secondly, whatever wine is given should be the most sound and unsophisticated of its kind which can be procured. The host had far better produce only a bottle or two of sound bourgeois wine from Bordeaux—and most excellent wine may be found under such a denomination—with no pretence of a meretricious title, or other worthless finery about it, than an array of fictitious mixtures with pretentious labels procured from an advertising cheap wine house. . I could only speak in terms of contempt and disgust, did I not feel pity for the deluded victims, of the unscrupulous use of the time-honoured and historical titles which advertisers shamelessly flaunt on bottlesHozv to possess Fine Wines. 163 of worthless compounds by means of showy labels, in lists and pamphlets of portentous length, and by placards sown broadcast through the country. So that one may buy “Lafite” or “ Margaux ”— “ Chambertin ” or “ Nuits ”—-*47 port, or even ’34 —at any village store! No terms can be too strong to characterise such trade. If fine wines of unquestionable character and How to vintage are to bo produced, there are only two g^ewines ways of possessing them: one, by finding some wine-merchant of long standing and reputation, who will do an applicant the favour to furnish them, and the price must be large for quality and age. We may be certain that such an one will never advertise ; no man who really has the grands tins of esteemed vintages in his cellar need spend a shilling in ad- vertisements, for he confers a favour on his customer by parting with such stock. But better and more satisfactory is it to obtain from time to time a piece or two of wine, of high character and reputed vintage, when they are to be had, just fit to bottle, and lay them down for years until ripe for use. Commencing thus in early life, a man’s cellar becomes in twenty or thirty years a possession of interest and value, and he can always produce, at his little dinners, for those who can appreciate it, something curiously fine, and free at all events from the deleterious qualities of new and fictitious wines. Briefly: the rule, by general gastronomic consent, Usual for those who indulge in the luxury of wine, is to 01-le^ offer a glass of light pale sherry or dry Sauternc after dinner.164 Food and Feeding. One wine during a meal. Tobacco after eating: soup ; a delicate Rhino wine, if required, after fish ; a glass of good Bordeaux with the joint of mutton; the same, or champagne—dry, hut with some true vinous character in it, and not the tasteless spirit and water now enjoying an evanescent popularity as abso- lute “brut”—during the entrees; the best red wine in the cellar, Bordeaux or Burgundy, with the grouse or other roast game ; and — but this ought to suffice, even for that exceptional individual who is supposed to be little if at all injured by “moderate ” potations. With the ice or dessert, a glass of full-flavoured but matured champagne, or a liqueur, may be served; but at this point dietetic admonitions are out of place, and we have already sacrificed to luxury. But it is not to be forgotten that both temperance and digestion are favoured by the habit of avoiding much mixing of red and white, or indeed of any wines at our meals. Men have discovered for themselves that choice champagne and claret, however delightful each may prove itself in passing over the palate, often quarrel sadly when they arrive in the stomach below. Hence the somewhat modern, and certainly prudent course, which many now follow, viz., to drink either the one or the other wine throughout the dinner, and to limit himself to that only. And this makes it necessary to supply, as before intimated, the best produce of the cellar during the whole course of the dinner, instead of reserving it, as in days of yore, for consumption afterwards. The value of a cigarette at the moment a meal has been completed, consists in the fact that with the firstATatural Ally of Tobacco is Coffee, not Spirit. 165 whiff of its fragrance the palate ceases to demand either food or wine. After smoke the power to appreciate good wine is lost, and no judicious host cares to open a fresh bottle from his best bin for the smoker, nor will the former he blamed by any man for a disinclination to do so. Moreover, tobacco an ally of is unquestionably an ally of temperance; certainly ^ceT' it is so in the estimation of the gourmet. A relation- ship for him of the most perfect order is that which subsists between coffee and fragrant smoke, its rela- While wine and tobacco are antipathetic, the one affecting injuriously all that is grateful in the other, the aroma of coffee “ marries ” perfectly with the per- natural, fume of the finest leaf. Among the Mussulmans this ^ely re relationship is recognised to the fullest extent; and cognised, also throughout the Continent the use of coffee, which is almost symbolical of temperate habits, is intimately associated with the cigarette or cigar. Only by the uncultured classes of Great Britain and of other northern nations, who appear to possess the most insensitive palates in Europe, have smoke and alcoholic drinks been closely associated. By such, tobacco and spirit have been sought chiefly as drugs, and are taken mainly for their effects on the nervous system—the easy but disastrous means of becoming stupid, besotted, or drunk. People of cultivated tastes, 011 the other hand, select their tobacco or their wines, not for their qualities as drugs, but for those subtler attributes of flavour and perfume, which exist often in inverse proportion to the injurious narcotic ingredients; which latter are as much as possible166 Water at meals. The London supply. Purest natural waters, plain and aerated. Food and Feeding. avoided, or are accepted chiefly for the sake of the former. Before quitting the subject of dining it must he said that, after all, those who drink water with that meal probably enjoy the pleasure of eating more than those who drink wine. They have generally better appetite and digestion, and they certainly preserve an appreciative palate longer than the wine-drinker. Water is so important an element to them, that they are not indifferent to its quality and source. As for the large class which cannot help itself in this matter, the importance of an ample supply of uncon- taminated water cannot be over-rated. The quality of that furnished to the population of London is happily now good, but the ouly mode of storing it possible to many often renders it dangerous to health. Disease and intemperance are largely pro- duced by neglect in relation to these two matters. It would be invidious, perhaps, to say what par- ticular question of home or foreign politics could be spared, that Parliament might discuss a matter of such pressing urgency as a pure water supply ; • or to specify what particular part of our enormous expenditure, compulsory and voluntary, might be better employed than at present, by diverting a portion to the attainment of that end. But for those who can afford to buy bottled waters, no purer exists in any natural sources than that of our own Malvern springs, and these are aerated and provided in the form of soda and potash waters of unexceptionable quality. Pure distilled water, re-supplied with atmospheric167 Aerated Waters. air by a special process, and then well charged with Aerated carbonic-acid gas, is now furnished at so reasonable a cost in London as to be within the reach of per- sons of moderate means. It is almost needless to say that so prepared, water is absolutely pure, and nothing more safe or wholesome can be employed for drinking purposes. Certainly it is wholly unnecessary to import waters for the use of the table from foreign sources, unless medical qualities are particularly desired by the consumer. No foreign waters of any kind whatever, from any source, are so pure or half so cheap, or so easy to obtain as the distilled waters now referred to, which are prepared here at home at our very doors. Then the great makers of soda and potash waters Soda and in this country supply a thoroughly trustworthy ^atTrs. ' article. Each bottle contains a known quantity, from five to fifteen grains of the salt, the water being obtained from their own artesian wells or other equally trustworthy sources, so that English aerated waters are unrivalled in excellence. On the other hand, the foreign siphon, made, as it often is, at any chemist’s shop, and from the water of the nearest source, is a very uncertain production. Prob- Travellers ably our travelling fellow-countrymen owe their Overby attacks of fever more to drinking water contaminated drinking by sewage matter, than to the malarious influences water, which pervade certain districts of southern Europe. The only water safe for the continental traveller to drink is a natural mineral water, and such is now always procurable throughout Europe, except in veryFood and Feeding. 168 Adding wine makes it no safer. Boil it or drink natural mineral water. Waters with lemon j uice, remote or unfrequented places.* In the latter circum- stances no admixture of wine or spirit counteracts the •poison in tainted water, and makes it safe to drink, as people often delight to believe; but the simple process of boiling it renders it perfectly harmless ; and this result is readily attained in any locality by making weak tea to be taken hot or cold, in the latter case it is more palatable, with a little lemon infused, than alone; or in making toast-water, barley-water, lemon- ade, &c. The table waters now so largely imported into this country from Germany and France, contain a considerable proportion of mineral matter in solu- tion, and while they are wholesome as regards freedom from organic impurities, are, of course, less perfect for daily use than absolutely pure waters, such as those above referred to. Yaunted frequently as possessing certain medicinal properties, this very fact ought to prohibit their constant use as dietetic agents for habitual consumption, inasmuch as we do not require drugs as diet, but only as occasional cor- rectives. Among them the principal are natural Seltzers, Appollinaris, Gieslmbel, and St. Galmier .—of this latter some sources are inferior to others, the best appearing now to be chiefly retained for Paris—being perhaps among the most satis- factory within our reach. A dash of lemon-juice, * Throughout France, St. Galmier ; in Germany, Seltzers or Appolli- naris; in Austria and Bohemia, Giesliiibel, are always obtainable, being the table-waters of most repute, in each case respectively, of the country itself. In all chief places in Italy, Appollinaris, Seltzers or St. Galmier, are supplied by the hotels. In Spain these are rarely at present to he had, but the alternatives recommended are easily obtained.Sweet Drinks at Dinner objectionable. 169 and a thin cutting of the peel, form sometimes an agreeable addition, especially to our well-made soda, seltzer or potash waters ; and nothing keeps the palate cleaner or in better order for appreciating food. I am compelled to say that the sweet compounds and but none fruity juices which have for some time past been fit produced, and inordinately puffed, as dinner drinks, for dinner and apparently in competition with wine, are rarely wholesome adjuncts to a dinner. Such liquids rapidly develop indigestible acid products in the stomachs of many persons ; while for all, the sipping of sweet fluids, effervescing or otherwise, during a meal tends to diminish appetite, as well as the faculty of appreciating good cookery. If wine is refused, let the drink which accompanies dinner be of pure water—with a sparkle of gas in it, and a slight acid in it if you will—but in obedience both to gastro- nomic and dietetic laws let it be free from sugar. No doubt there are exceptional circumstances in which fruity juices, if not very sweet, can be taken freely. Thus I have rarely quaffed more delicious liquor at The water- dinner in the warm autumn of southern Europe, ^ notably in Spain, than that afforded by ample slices of hot coun- a water-melon, which fill the mouth with cool fragranttries’ liquid; so slight is the amount of solid matter, that it only just serves to contain the abundant delicate juices of the fruit grown in those climates. Here the sac- charine matter is nevertheless present, only in very small proportion. zCHAPTER XI. Alleged difficulty in com- posing a menu. In order to arrange a dinner some practical acquaintance with food necessary—Also of the season at which it is in perfection—The scheme or elementary outline of a dinner—Menus should he written in French—Two menus for each month in the year— The order in which dishes should be presented—Numerous dishes not included among them—Truffles. The remark is frequently heard from the domestic head of an English family, the lady of the house— who, although in easy circumstances and much occu- pied in good society, does not care to delegate her authority to a skilled professional housekeeper—that nothing puzzles her more than the composition of menus for the inevitable dinner parties. She feels almost as ready, or rather as unready, as she would he if called upon to compose a sonnet or a symphony. Tier husband, whose counsels are so valuable, or at all events are so promptly furnished on almost all other topics, utterly fails in his attempt to offer a suggestion now. Hence she meets her cook on terms which preclude exercise of choice or criticism ; and the latter becomes mainly the author of the programme. But a leading confectioner and dinner purveyor may also be consulted, who supplies the suggestion desired, sending in a dish or two in consequence ; and a suit- able congruity is devoutly hoped for as the result.The Art of Constructing a Menu, i/i At all events it is now certain that the menu will he sufficiently comprehensive; and there is even a pro- bability that it will contain the latest invention—well, let us say—in gastronomic nomenclature ; since the novelty of the imported dish itself may, perhaps, not he so easily or truthfully affirmed. I venture then to offer a few hints relative to that Practical particular form of literary composition which is in- vclved in the so-called art of menu writing. Were of menu it not that the art is really a very simple one, I wntin&' should not risk the responsibility of offering advice. But it is necessary at the outset to state, that in order to ensure success in this particular department of letters, some little knowledge of the subject, namely, food, its nature and principal forms, is really necessary. First, then, the author of a menu must have a mode- Must rate acquaintance with the varied materials which If form the natural produce of any given season through- season out the year. Otherwise, we may meet with a pro- posal to serve Scotch salmon at Christmas, fine fresh tomatoes before Easter, oysters and grouse at Mid- summer, asparagus at Michaelmas, and tender peas in November. I don’t say that it is absolutely impos- sible to procure some of these things ; more especially as the electric light may ultimately render us, for gardening purposes—and who knows for what else !—• independent of sun and season. But at present most of those delicacies, like many others which might be named, are practically unattainable. To be serious, through- it is necessary that a housekeeper should know what out the are the best products of the season, both of theFood and Feeding. 1 72 Every dinner should be arranged on a cer- tain plan. A series of dishes, each hav- ing some relation to the next, animal and the vegetable world, in every month of the year. A pleasant stroll through Covent Garden once a week, and an occasional call on the fishmonger and poultryman, with frequent reference to some good manual of cookery, containing a kind of Almanack cles Gourmands, will furnish a fair acquaintance with what is really an interesting branch of knowledge. See table of fish in season, Appendix, p. 209. Next, it is necessary to have a simple hut clear notion of the foundation or outline, the pattern or “archetype”—if I may use a scientific term of rather lofty significance—on which every dinner, however great or however small, must he planned, as the groundwork of its construction. Certain primary elements are essential to the structure of a dinner; shorn of these there may without doubt he a meal, and indeed not a had one of some kind; hut there can he no dinner. Thus, a man may satisfy his hunger with a large plate of meat, piled with supple- mentary vegetables, and flanked by the attendant bread, and greatly enjoy his meal, hut this is not dinner in any technical sense of the word, and cannot be so regarded; it is simply a plate of meat and vegetables. It offers no change in form, or kind, or flavour, and no slight interval of rest for the palate ; it is a single movement, not a complete symphony— an “ andante ” in common time, but wanting the preliminary introduction, and without the bright and sparkling “ minuet” to follow, which in its turn leads to the “grand finale” ; while this in its course may present a plaintive minor passage, givingThe Composition of a Dinner. 17\ force and splendour to the resumption of the major key before the close. Thus it is that certain con- so as to stituent parts are necessary, one lending- force to ^re®^0 another by help of relief or contrast; the attainment whole, of perfection through variety being as essential to the idea of a dinner, as to that of a complete musical com- position. Bearing this law in view, and maintaining the characters demanded, we may produce a dinner of Spartan simplicity, or may swell it to proportions which should satisfy a Lucullus; but the archetype pattern is still to be discernible throughout. A dinner to be complete within moderate limits should contain, in ideal terms,— 1. An introductory or preliminary dish or two, as soup, or fish, or both. 2. A substantial dish of meat, or piece cle resistance, to satisfy a keen appetite. A com- plete dinner Exchangeable for scheme the following if desired : 3. A choice dish or two of delicate flavour for those who have little appetite for the preceding (or No. 2), as well as for those who have, but are able also to reserve a place for the gratification of taste. \ Not absolutely essential; or may - take the place of the substantial / dish. 4. A dish of marked flavour and character easily digestible, inviting to the palate ; a roast or grill. 5. A dish of choice vegetables by itself, with or without an attractive specimen of smoked or cured flesh in some form. \ Not all absolutely essential. 6. A sweet. 7. A savoury dish. /Food ana Feeding. 174 which may be varied in detail according to circum- stances Thus. Let the foregoing ideas be represented in a concrete form, either as simple, and applicable to one or two persons ; or with additions of a luxurious kind, for the purpose of providing the variety necessary when there are several guests. It may he laid down as a self- evident axiom, that while two persons agreeing in their tastes may dine well on three, four, or at most five dishes, a larger number or choice of dishes must he provided to meet the differing tastes of ten or twelve persons, not one of whom individually may require more than the former. Thus:— 1. Introductory or Soup Preliminary or Dishes. Pish. Soup Soups and and Pish. Choice of Fish. 2. Substantial Disii Joint or other portion of meat; tender —rclcvt or remove. and juicy ; not necessarily roast: to he well garnished, and attended with vegetables. 3. Choice Dishes ; entrees. An entree of some kind ; one of fish may come here if soup only were taken before the meat. Two entrees—rare- ly more—simple or luxurious, ac- cording to the entertainment de- sired. 4. A Dish of Marked Flavour—the Boast. Almost always a bird ; game when in season ; attended or followed by ti salad. The Entremets. 5. Vegetable (which The best in season carefully cocked, may sometimes pro- and served by itself, cede, but will mostly follow, the roast). And here may be offered the dish ofThe Essential Dishes of a Dinner. 175 highest flavour which reaches the table ; as a well-cured ham, or a highly - smoked ox - tongue, or even a curry. 6. Sweet . 7. Savoury Dessert One, or several, according to the guests. Ranges from a morsel of cheese to a perfectly made souffle, or beiguet of Parmesan; or may consist of caviare, dried fish, devilled biscuit, mushroom, &c. The essentials then of a dinner reduced to its lowest The lowest term are:— term essential for dinner. 1. Preliminary . Soup only : or fish only, if soup disagrees, or is objected to. Both, if desired. 2 and 3. The Meat and entree. Meat alone ; or fish in its place, if soup only has been taken ; or the entree alone if lighter food than meat is preferred. 4. A. Roast . . A roast bird of some kind. 5, 6, and 7. Entre- mets. A vegetable; sweet, or savoury—one of each only, or two only, as preferred. In order to illustrate the foregoing remarks, I shall Examples now furnish a few examnles of small hut complete moder' dinners; which are easily reducible, however, to the to follow “ lowest term,” by the omission of a dish or two on the month in principle laid down. In each menu a choice of soups, the year, fish, entrees, roast and sweet entremets are given; constituting in fact the menus of two dinners. Such a double menu is sketched from the materials most in176 Food and Feeding. Menu for each month. Quality to he sought, not com- plexity. Menus should he written in French. season for cacli month, in the year, making twenty-four dinners in all. I have ventured to do so because the suggestion has been so frequently made that practical illustration of the principles advocated should he appended, and also because it appears possible that a few examples may, perhaps, be of some slight service to young or inexperienced persons, if any such there be. I wholly disclaim any idea of furnishing programmes here for elaborate dinners, or “state ” occasions; and only intend to suggest simple products which any goed or “ thorough good ” cook may furnish properly, at all events with a little preliminary practice in some in- stances. Perhaps the truth is scarcely yet sufficiently recognised that the quality or character of a dinner does not depend on the number, the complexity, the cost, or even on the rarity of the component dishes. Let these be few in number, and be simple in compo- sition ; but if the material itself is the best of its kind, well cooked and tastefully presented, the dinner may rank with the best, and is certain to please. I have long been forced to the conclusion that menus, as a rule, should be written altogether in the French language. So many French culinary terms have been naturalised ; so many more are almost if not quite un- translatable, that the endeavour to write menus in English invariably results in an objectionable mixture of the two languages, resembling a mongrel patois. As examples, those of the first three months and those of the last month shall be written as far as possible in English, and the remainder will be given in French.177 Menus for January and February. JANUARY. Soap Fish RelevE or \ Remove J Entree Roast Entremets. Bmnoi.se. | Ox-tail. Fillets of Sole a la Crimped Cod and Oyster Cardinal. Sauce. Roast Leg of Mutton, with puree of Onions and Haricots (a la Bretonne). Menus written in English, so-called. Sweetbreads a la Financiere. Braised Ox-tongue and Spinach. Pheasant. Snipe, or Widgeon. Seakale and Butter Sauce. Iced Coffee, or Yanille Souffle. Brown Bread Pudding. Canapes of Anchovy. Soup Fish RelevE or ) Remove( FEBRUARY. Pay sanne. Fillets of Turbot a la ravigote. Puree of White Haricots, or Lentils. Broiled Herring and Mustard Sauce. Braised Yeal and Macedoine of Vegetables. ExtrEe Roast Entremets. Croquettes of Oysters, or Scalloped Oysters.* Wild Duck. Mutton Cutlets a la Soubise. Hare. Stewed Celery in Gravy. Apricots, Peaches, or Pears, with Rice. Baba with Rum. Caviare. * Another mollusc, the true “scallop” (Pedcn maximus), may be substituted for oysters as an entrde for occasional change in the spring season. It was formerly largely consumed, being originally cooked in the manner which is now commonly adopted for the oyster, when presented as above described. Long after the scallops, oysters came to be esteemed, and being cooked in the same way, were therefore said to be “scalloped.” The original “ scallops” may still be had at our fishmongers, and when thinly sliced and so dressed, are by no means to be altogether neglected. A AI7S Menu in English. Menu in French. Food and Feeding. MARCH. Soup Crofite au pot. Puree of Turnips, or of artichokes. Fish Boiled Salmon, Sauce hollandaise with capers. Red Mullets, baked ; see p. 132. Eelevi5 or \ Remove J Broiled Steak from the fillet, Maitre d’Hotel Sauce. Entp.^e Quenelles of Rabbit, puree of Celery. Timbale of Macaroni a la Milanaise. Roast Guinea Fowl, with Cress or young Salad. Capon, stuffed with fresh truffles. * Entremets. Stewed Mushrooms. Young Salad. “ Spring Tart.” Charlotte Russe, with pistachios. Herring, or Herring Roe, on Toast. APRIL. Rotage Printanier. Consomme au Biz, a l’ltalienne. Poisson Truite grillee a la Hollandaise. Eperlans frits. RELEVlt Aloyau braisd a la Nivernaise. Filet de Pore, Sauce Robert. Entree Jambon glace anx Epi- nards, ou a la Chicoree. Pieds de Mouton a la poulette. RAt Poulet et Salade. Canetons. Entremets. Asperges d’Ar genteuil. Bavaroise an Chocolat. I Creme au Caramel. Petits Souffles au frontage. * Fresh French truffles are in perfection in January, to which fruit- ful month of all good things this dish might well be relegated ; but are still in season through February and March. Fair Euglish truffles, notably inferior, however, to the French black truffle, may be found in Covent Garden a month or two later.Menus for May and June. 179 MAY. Potage Bonne Femme. Crecy. Menus in roissox ... Filets de Maquereau grilles, Maitre d’HStel. Sole a la Colbert. French. RELEVE Selle d’Agneau braisee, Macddoinc dc Legumes. Entire Pain de Volaille aux truffes. Tete dc Yeau en tortuc. Rot Cailles. Levraut. Entremets. Carottes a l’Allemande. Petits pois ala Flamande. Creme frite aux amandes anieres. Croquantc d’Oranges. (Eufs de Pluvier. Canapes do Crcvettes. JUNE. Potage Pot-au-feu. Bisque d’cerevisscs.* Toisson Saumon de la Severn tailladd, Sauce au fenouil. Raie au Beurre Noir, on Sauce aux Capres. Releve Fricandeau de Yeau a 1’Oseille. Entree Cliaudfroid de Cailles. Poulet a la Marengo. Rot Canards aux petits pois. Pigeons, Salade. Entremets. Asperges froides en Salade. Petitspois a la Franjaise, Purde de Groseilles glacde. Nougat a la Creme. Croutes au Parmesan. * A bisque is understood to be a well-flavoured and garnished puvie of crayfish, as above ; but the same treatment of prawns, of lobster, and also of crab, produces excellent bisques. Some apply the term to certain purges of game, at the risk, perhaps, of rendering the meaning of the word uncertain.i8o Food and Feeding. Menus in French. Potage Poisson ... Releve EntjkJe ... R6t ... Entremets. JULY. Puree de Pois (St. Puree de Pornmes de terre Germain). aux poireaux. Flondres Frites, | Aigrefin farcie au four. Epaule d’Agneau a la puree d’Artichauts. Bouchees b, la Reine. Chevreuil. Salade aux Tomates. Gelee au Kirsch, garnie de Cerises. Poulet h l’Estragon. Pluviers. Plarieots verts, ou pa- naches, sautes au beurre. Bavaroise aux fraises. Petits Filets de Saumon au Diable. Potage roissoN ... Relevi5 Entree .., Rot Entremets. AUGUST. Puree de Chicorce, ou d’Epiuards. Sole Frite, citron ; ou Sauce verte. Consomme au Macaroni, ou au Vermicelle. Barbue, Sauce aux Crevettes. Poitrine de Mouton a la Chicorce.* Quenelles de Veau aux Filets de Caneton a la Bigarade. Dindonneau. Feves de Marais h la Poulette. Macedoine de Fruits. | “ Dressed petits pois. Coq de Bruyere. Salade de Legumes. Creme aux framboises. Crab.” * An excellent dish, first braised, then cooled ; finished with bread crumbs in the oven, or on the gridiron, and garnished with a puree of endive, or of spinach, or with tomatoes. The trimmed neck similarly treated makes a more substantial remove.181 Menus for September and October. SEPTEMBER. Potage Creme d’Orge ii la Hollandaise. * Julienne. Menus in French. Poisson ... Aigrefin f grillee a la ravigote. Sole a la Normande. Releve Haricot de Chevreuil. “Beefsteak Pudding” ii l’Anglaise. Entree Filets de Poulet aux Trutfes, Sauce Supreme. Blanquctte de Ris d’Agneau a la Toulouse. Rot Sarcelles. Perdreaux. Entremets. Chou-fleur au Gratin. Charlotte aux pommes. | Omelette Soufflee. Champignons Grilles. Potage Poisson ... Relev e Entree Rot Entremets. OCTOBER. Puree de Yolaille (h la Puree de Tomates. Reine). Filets de Barbue Fri'.s. | Doree, Sauce aux liuitres. Filet de Boeuf a la Milanaise. Civet de Lievre. | Fricassee de Poulet. Faisan. | “Black Game.” Artichauts au Beurrc. Omelette au confiture. | Beignets de pommes, kc. Canapes de Jambon, ou de Homard. * The distinctive and agreeable addition, besides the little quenelles of fowl, in this soup, is the handful of sorrel leaves, which are still in season during this month. t “ Merluche ” is generally used in this country to denote “haddock,” but the French word merely designates any dried fish. “ Aigrefin ” or “aiglefin” is the true equivalent for haddock.iSa Menu in French. Menu in English. Food and Feeding. NOVEMBER. POTAGE Toisson ... Re lev it Entree Rot Entremets. Rurce do Gibier. | Soupe aux Choux. Sole Bouillie, Sauce aux Merlan grille, Sauce an h nitres. C'Apres. Selle de Mouton Rotio, “ Laver.”* Faisan bouilli, A la puree de Celeri. Salmi de Perdreaux. Recesses ou Becassines. | Oie. Foie Gras en Aspic, Pommes de Terre Sautees Salade Macedoine. au Beurre. Savarin. | Meringues a la Creme. Petites Coquilles de Macaroni au Gratin. DECEMBER. Sour Eisii RELEVit or ) Remove \ Entiiee Roast (Christmas Dinners.) Consonimd, with Italian pastes. Turbot, Hollandaise Sauce with capers. Turkey stuffed with Chestnuts. Fillet of Beef, Horse radish Sauce, Oyster. Eels and Tartare Sauce. Quenelles of Fowl, Sauce with Truffles. Westpli alianGoose Breast with Winter Spinach. Game in Season. Entremets. Spinach in gravy. | Potato Salad. Plum Pudding, Brandy Mince Pies. Sauce. Chartreuse of Oranges. Welsh Rarebit. | Devilled Biscuit. * Laver is in season from October to March ; and consists of two native marine plants, Porphyra vulgaris and Viva latissima. It is unknown in France, and recognised in few of our own cookery books. A most excellent adjunct to roast mutton. Let it soak in two fresh waters, about an hour in each, to get rid of the salt ; then put it in a saucepan with some hot water, and simmer until quite soft and mucila- ginous ; dress it as spinach, with butter, or with a little stock, and a dash of lemon juice ; serve hot.Menus for May and September. 183 Six more menus follow here, in French, requiring for their proper execution a first-class cook. Two are for spring, and four for the autumn, as illustrations of more finished dishes than those previously given; all of which, although excellent and typical combinations, meriting the highest care and talent when available, arc also within the reach of most middle class house- holds where an interest in cookery exists. MAY. POTAGE Consomme a la Jacqueline.* Puree d’Aspergos. Poisson ... Truite au court bouillou. Filets de Sole a la Chevreuse. PiELEVE ... Filet de bceuf a la Chantilly. Gigot de Mouton braise a la Bercy. Entree ... Ris de Veau h la Marsilly. Boudins de Volaille a l’ecarlate. Rot Ortolans aux croutes, ou Canetons. Cailles ou Canetons. Entremets. Haricots, verts etuves. Riz a la creme framboise Souffle au Gruyere. Gateau de Plombieres. Brochettes de Homard. SEPTEMBER. POTAGE Poisson ... RELEVti ... Entree ... Rut Entremets. Puree de Levraut. Sole a la Trouville. CotelettesdeVeau,piqudes a la Soubise. Mousseline de Volaille chaude. “Grouse.” Ponds d’Articliauts a Plombiere aux cerises. Croutes au foie-gras. Consomme de Volaille h, l’Estragon. Quenelles de Merlan a la Montglas. Pointe de boeuf ii la Flamande. Filets mignons de pou- larde a la Montpensier. Perdreaux. a moelle. Gateau bordelais. Sardines au gratin. * Consomme of fowl, with a liason, and spring vegetables. Menus in French of higher class.184 Food and Feeding. V OCTOBER. POTAGE Velours.* Consomme h la Nillson.f Poisson ... Darnes de Saumon a la Matelote. Creme de Homard. ReleviI; ... Noisettes de Veau aux champignons. Chateaubriand a la moelle. Entree ... Petites timbales de Volaille aux trades. Eilets de Caneton a la Perigueux. Rot Rable de Lievre a la creme. Dindonneau farci. Entremets. Stacliys tuberata a la poulette.J Gateau Eleury. Canapes de Provence. Creme de topinambours. Parfait au Nougat. Croustades de Merluehe h l’Anglaise. On looking through the foregoing menus, it may be observed that the most substantial dish has been placed next after the fish, and that it is followed by the entree, after which comes the “ roast,” which in its turn is followed by the choice vegetable served apart. Those who prefer the entree before the substantial dish, can so arrange it; but whenever the latter happens to be roasted, as may sometimes be the case, it interferes most undesirably, by juxtaposition with the “roast” proper. This error may then be to some extent corrected by placing the choice vegetable be- tween the two, i.e. before the roast proper instead of after it; and this course should be taken whenever the first-named change is made. * A smooth puree of the red part of the carrot; the basis being a clear bouillon, thickened with tapioca.—Dubois. t A consomme of fowl, elegantly garnished.—Dubois. J See pages 117-18.The Contrast of Dishes in a Dinner. >85 In all cases too, there should be a marked difference ^ffec^of in the material and culinary treatment of any two con- secutive dishes; thus it is obviously undesirable that one white (or brown) preparation should follow another; a quenelle of veal, for example, after a boiled sole; or that a salmi of game should precede a roast pullet. It may he observed that white and brown meats and sauces mostly alternate, that grills and braises contrast; that a delicate white entree successfully introduces the roast, that when the latter is substantial, as a haunch of venison, or a saddle of mutton, the preceding entree may be less important; and so on. As a rule, to which there are a few exceptions, the procession of dishes after the tish is from the substantial to the more delicate; after which the appetite is stimulated by contrasts. Thus, the piquant flavour of the roast, with its Proceed by “ taste of the fire,” is welcome ; but it is followed by deiicSate°m the soft and succulent vegetable, the young peas or ^a™urs stewed celery, or the globe artichoke, preparing the piquant, palate for a slice of highly cured ham, tongue, or goose-breast, full of the scent of pure wood smoke: for if such a dish appears at all, it must be here—■ next the sweet, by reason of its predecessor sweeter still; yet no palate can be left with this as its last impression, and must be rendered “ clean,” pre- pared to rest—or perchance to relish the last glass of wine by the delicate savoury morsel which terminates the menu. I desire to ask special attention to the fact that nume- Have rous popular dishes have been omitted—and purposely so—from these menus, simply for the reason that they familiar B B186 Food and Feeding. dishes, such as “joints,” “ turtle,” “ special soups,” and fish, oysters, &c., to save needless menu writing; are well known, and can therefore be adopted at pleasure by way of addition or exchange. Thus, none of the joints, such as sirloins, rounds, haunches, saddles, loins, shoulders, &c., have been named, with perhaps a single exception only. Everybody is familiar with English joints, which have been on this account ex- cluded from a list necessarily so restricted as the limits of only twenty-four menus demand. For the same reason I have not named turtle in any form, nor curries; nor such special soups as mock-turtle, mulligatawny, hodge-podge, split-pea,* giblet, watcr- soucliets, and fish soups; nor whitebait, nor the fresh-water fish, carp, tench, dace, pike, &c.; nor among sweets, tarts, ices, sorbets, and the farinaceous puddings, custards, &c.; nor have I named the preli- minary oysters, which may well be added during the season, September to April inclusive, as an additional luxury. My object has been to suggest a few of the leading smaller dishes of a comparatively simple and not expensive kind, and to place them in proper juxtaposition in relation to each other, so far as this has been possible, with the view of suggesting some little diversity in the dietary of our better middle- class tables. Almost every one also is more or less typical in its character, so that given the knowledge of preparing it, several minor varieties can be produced. At the same time, such dishes * Our common split-pea soup, wholesome and agreeable in winter, with dried mint and tiny crohtons, is wholly unknown in France ; the dried green peas, termed pois ccisses, only are used for similar purposesCookery may be refined, yet not costly. 187 are unpretentious, and do not demand the skill of a intro- rare expert; yet, when really well executed, they otter g^pif results not to he surpassed by any, either in relation dishes less to refined tastes, or in wholesome and nourishing they de- qualities, in relation to the powers of the stomach and servetobe- the wants of the system. To the remark regarding an estimate of the expense just made, I admit two or, at most, three exceptions, of which the cJumon Remarks truffe is the most obvious example. And it is not weapon suggested, moreover, that this should he prepared at truffe,” home, hut obtained only during the season of fresh truffles, from France ; stuffed on its native soil with native produce, it forms a very important addition to a dinner, and stamps it with a rare distinction. There is no difficulty in procuring truffled poultry of any size by rail direct from Paris, when the indulgence of a little extravagance is to he permitted ; but even this trouble is not necessary, since a few first-rate London poul- terers import fresh truffles, and will furnish a fine Dorking fowl properly stuffed, the quantity used determining in any case the cost of the dish.* I have somewhere before said that the fresh truffle and^upon is so immeasurably superior to those preserved in bottles, that the latter appears to me scarcely worth * No better names could be mentioned than those of Chevct, of the Palais Royal, and Bailey, of Mount Street, Grosvenor Square. The French truffle—“truffe noir,” is a subterraneous fungus, of the species “Tuber.” T. melanosporum is found in the woods, chiefly beneath the shade of the oak, in the neighbourhood of Perigueux and of Angouleme. The British truffle, T. testivuin, fourd mostly in beech woods, is in season in the course of the summer, when it may be found in Covent Garden ; but even when fresh is greatly inferior to the French variety in scent and flavour.188 Truffles. Caviare. Food and Feeding. eating, except for their agreeable nutty texture; and, mainly by virtue of the law which, operates through the association of ideas, for the memory of delicious flavour and subtle aroma, existing only when the truffle is fresh, as during its short term of harvest, about six or eight weeks after Christmas. I refer, of course, only to the French growth, superior as it is by many degrees to our own, and to that of North Italy also. For those who have not eaten and ap- preciated the fresh truffle, it appears to me that eating them when preserved is more the result of fashion, than of much gratification derived from the act. Something of the same kind may be said of caviare. Once eaten in its freshest and finest condition, say in Moscow, and the black herring-flavoured small-seeded caviare, commonly found here, becomes uneatable. 13ut the pale and fresher kind does, to a satisfactory extent, recall the delicious qualities of the best Russian product when fresh. And this latter may sometimes be found at Berlin, a distance it can reach by rail without injury.CHAPTER XII. The public dinner—Its undue length—Toasts too numerous— Suggestions for shortening the proceedings—Good cookery independent of pedantic and complicated receipts—Schools of cookery—Better food, in better condition, and in more abun- dant supply, a pressing want for London—-Conclusion. Befoke concluding, a remark or two may be per- The public mitted in reference to that great British institution, ftTuses-nd the public dinner. Its utility must, I suppose, be conceded, since for a vast number of charitable and other useful institutions, the opportunity of com- manding once a year the ear of a generous British public for an exposition of their claims, seems in no other way at present attainable. A royal or noble chairman, a portentous menu, an unstinted supply of wine, such as it is, and after-dinner speeches in variety, form an ensemble which appears to be attractive to the great body of “ supporters.” On the other hand, those whose presence is enforced by the claim of duty find these banquets too numerous and too long. The noise and bustle, the the hard- badly served although pretentious dinner, the glare gj^iis of gas and the polluted air, the long, desultory and unmeaning speeches, interspersed with musical per- formances—which, however admirable in themselves,190 Ford and Feeding. extend unduly a programme already too comprehen- sive—unfit many a man, seriously occupied, for the Hints for engagements of the morrow. Might it not be worth its lm win Ip f n trv flip PYnnmnpn f nf nfforinn' fonror rliclino four—these to he followed at most by one or two With the utmost deference to long received usage, and after some little consideration, I venture to suggest that the following programme would at all events be an improvement on the present system, if such it can be called. essential6 fidelity to the Crown, and our loyalty to the person of main, by universal consent, as before. The next, or patriotic toasts, unlike the preceding, arc regarded as demanding response, often from several persons, and Sugges- here it is that time is generally wasted. These might pression tary ancl liaval services, although it would of course include them. The object might be attained by con- stituting one or two comprehensive patriotic toasts, as “The United Services,” to embrace the army, navy, and volunteers, and to be responded to either by a naval or a military officer as arranged, but by one only. Then might naturally follow “ The National Institutions,” consisting of, say (1) Parliament: ils ment- better service, and abolishing half the toasts ? Might number*of ^ no^ P0SSiW° 1° limit the necessary and essential the toasts, toasts of a public dinner to the number of three or special toasts associated with the object of the dinner? Toasts The first toast, or toasts, by which we declare our the Sovereign, as well as to the Poyal family, to rc- tions for combina- tion and com- thcrefore be advantageously compressed into one, or perhaps two, which need not be limited to the mili-191 The Public Dinner. leaders. (2) Justice: the judges. (3) Religion: its ministers. (4) Science and Art: heads of societies, academies, colleges. (5) Literature and the Press distinguished writers. One of these, as a rule, only to he given, and in nine cases out of ten, probably number one would he the most appropriate and the most popular. The next to be “the toast of the evening:” in other words, the particular subject of the dinner. After this might follow a fourth, embracing the healths of officers connected with the subject, visitors, &c., if necessary. I confess I see no reason why the military and naval Combina- forces, however profound our respect and our gratitude *o<^_and for their great services to the nation must he—and in pression this matter I yield to no man—should invariablycontinued- be responded to by at least two, mostly now by three officers, while the other great, and scarcely less important interests should be left out of consideration altogether, or be only occasionally introduced. The toast of “ National Institutions ” would mostly insure to the chairman and managers of the dinner an opportunity of obtaining one or two good speeches say, one for Parliament, or for Justice, or Religion, or for Science or Literature. The choice to be deter- mined upon by the presence of some individual belonging to any one of these interests, and who is known to be a capable and agreeable after-dinner speaker. Thus all the varied elements of our national life would receive in their turn a due share of attention from the great mass of public diners,192 Food and Feeding. Recent im- provement and its cause. Have touched lightly many topics, which, were not the limits narrow, and better speeches would probably be secured than by the present mode. I confess this is rather an episode; but the subject of “toasts” is so interwoven with the management of the public dinner that I have ventured to introduce it. I even dare to think that the proposition may be not unlikely to receive the support of “the chair,” the duties of which, with a long array of toasts, are sometimes excessively onerous; only more so, be it recollected, in degree than those, of a humbler kind, which are entailed on many of the guests who are compelled to assist. Considerable improvement has taken place during the last few years in the manage- ment of public dinners. This is largely due to the influence of H.P.II. the Prince of Wales, who, when called on to preside at the annual festival of some important charity, which has been so fortunate as to obtain His Poyal Highness as their advocate, requires a menu reasonably limited, and the elimination of unnecessary toasts and speeches. In concluding this imperfect sketch of the very large subject indicated by the title employed, I desire to express my strong sense of its manifold shortcomings, especially by way of omission. Desiring to call atten- tion, in the smallest possible compass, to a great number of what appear to me to be important con- siderations in connection with the arts of selecting, preparing, and serving food, I have doubtless often failed to be explicit in the effort to be brief. It would have been an easier task were time at my disposal to illustrate these considerations at greater length,193 Taste required in treating of Cookery. and to have exceeded the limits of this small volume; I might thus perhaps also have avoided, in dealing with some topics, a tone in statement more positive than circumstances may have warranted. Gastronomic tastes necessarily differ, as races, habits, digestive force, and supplies of food also differ ; and it becomes no man to be too dogmatic in treating of these matters. Be g until ns non cst clisputanclum is in no instance more true than in relation to the tastes of the palate. Still, if any rational canons are to be laid down in connection with food and feeding, it is absolutely necessary that something more than the chemical and physiological bearings of the subject should be taken into con- sideration. With these it is unquestionably essential for any one who treats of my subject to be familiar; but no less necessary is it to possess some natural taste and experience in the cultivation of the gustatory sense; just as a cultivation of the perception of colour and a sensibility to the charm of harmoniously com- bined tints, are necessary to an intelligent enjoyment of the visual sense, and to the understanding of its powers. Hence the treatment of the whole subject must inevitably be pervaded to some extent by the personal idiosyncrasy and predilections of the indi- vidual. It is this fact, no doubt, which, operating in relation to the numerous writers on cookery, has tended to produce some of the complication and confusion which often appears in culinary directions and receipts. But the gastronomic art is a simpler one than the effusions of some of its professors might lead the wholly uneducated to believe; and the might have been advan- tageously treated at length. Culinary taste and physiolo- gical knowledge wanted for the progress ofcookery.Food and Feeding. 194 Schools of cookery and their import- ance. complicated productions originated by some of its past and greatest practitioners are as unnecessary as arc the long and complicated prescriptions formerly in vogue with the loading physicians of past time. Both were the natural out-growtlis of an age when every branch of technical education was a “ mystery ; ” and when those who had attained the meaning thereof magnified their craft in the eyes of the vulgar by obscuring what is simple in a cloud of pedantic terms and processes. But that age and its delusions arc passing away, and it is high time for simplicity in the practice of cookery and the service of the table, to take the place of some useless and extravagant com- binations and treatment which tradition has handed down. The formation of elementary schools of cookery, and the encouragement they have received from the public, augur well for improvement. That they should teach the principles of cookery, that is, of applying heat to food, as well as the practical work of the kitchen, is a matter of the first importance. Ho doubt the standard of attainment is low in both subjects, and a certain commonplace uniformity in product will pervade the country as the result. Once make cookery a distinct business to which the young may be trained, which it never yet has been, and the chance of now and then producing a first-rate cook, who may advance the art, is within reach. Hitherto the practice of cookery has been merely a resource for wage-getting among ignorant women, who took to it at hazard, and acquired such traditions as195 Importance of high-class Produce. pertained to the kitchen they have happened to enter. Still farther, until it is recognised in this • country as a profession which a man with some education and natural taste can exercise, we must ho content to rank kelow other countries in rearing artists of the first order. At the present day it appears desirable, before all Secure things, to secure the highest quality in all produce of the land whether animal or vegetable; the standard of attainment leaving much to be desired in regard to the products of the latter kingdom. Great Britain has long held, and still maintains, the first place as to quality for her beef and mutton ; in no other country in Europe—I cannot speak of America—is it pos- sible to obtain these meats so tender, juicy, and well- developed. The saddle, the haunch, the sirloin, and the round, so admirable on occasions, are only in danger of suffering here, like intimate friends, from a too great familiarity with their charms. But even by careful our standard of quality in meat has been gradually tieedin£- lowered, from the closer struggle, year by year, to produce a fat animal in a shorter space of time than formerly; a result which is accomplished by com- mencing to feed almost exclusively on oil-cake at a very early period of life. The result of this process is, that size and weight are attained by a deposit of fat, rather than by the construction of muscular fibre, which must form the staple of matured and whole- some flesh; while as a necessary consequence the characteristic flavour and qualities of fully developed beef and mutton are greatly wanting in modern meat.196 Food and Feeding. Vegetable produce. Bread. Much more unsatisfactory is the supply of vegetable and dairy produce to our great city, particularly of the former. It must he confessed that our market at Covent Garden, in relation to capabilities for effective distribution of fresh vegetables, &c., would disgrace a town one-fifth of the size of London. Nineteen- twentieths of its inhabitants cannot obtain fresh green food on any terms, and those who succeed pay an exorbitant price. But their success is only partial, as those few who have a country garden of their own, and are supplied by it, well know. And, compara- tively speaking, none but those who are so happily circumstanced, realize the exceeding luxury of pos- sessing well-grown vegetables brought directly from the garden to the table. Again, I think I am right in saying that a really new-laid egg is a luxury which only a few in London can insure by purchase. Who- ever would absolutely secure the luxury must keep fowls, and with due care may obtain it, not otherwise. The great staple of our bread, commonly called “ bakers’ bread,” is unpalatable and indigestible; and I suppose no thoughtful or prudent consumer would, unless compelled, eat it habitually—used as it nevertheless is by the great majority of the inhabi- tants of this great city—any more than he would select a steak from the coarse beef whose proper destination is the stock-pot. Let any one com- pare the facilities which exist in most foreign towns for obtaining the important articles of diet just named, with the modes of supply afforded in London* and the inferiority of the latter will be soNeedful Reforms. 197 manifest as to become matter of humiliation to an Englishman. I do not raise any question of com- Facilities parison between our own markets and the Halles Centrales of Paris, covering as they do nearly five food acres of closely utilised space, with enormous vaults beneath, in direct communication by tram-road with the railways; nor of the well-stocked Marche St. Ilonore, and others of less note. To many among the thousands of tourists who frequent the public buildings of Paris, ail early morning survey of the fish, flesh, dairy produce, vegetables, fruit, and flowers, which the Halles Centrales display, and the scarcely less lemarkablc exhibition of Parisian and provincial life brought together there, present one of the most interesting and truly foreign spectacles which the city affords. To the long list of needed reforms I have ventured much to advocate in connection with this subject, I must London.111 add the want of ample and accessible markets in various parts of London, for what is known as country produce. I do this not only in the interest of the millions who, like myself, arc compelled to seek their food within the limits of Cockayne; but also in the interest of our country gardeners and housewives, who ought to be able to supply us with poultry, vegetables, and eggs, better than the gardeners and housewives of France, on whom at present wo so largely depend. We may well be grateful to these small cultivators, who by their industry and energy supply our de- ficiencies; but the fact that they do so does not redound to the credit of our countrymen. Since the198 Food and Feeding. Con- clusion. foregoing paragraphs were written for the first edition of this work, I am glad to note the improved facilities for obtaining country supplies which now exist, as compared with their absence at that period. Still, so rapidly do the area and population of our city increase, that the claim for more and better fresh food still increases almost in the same ratio as the improved supply. Have I claimed for the consideration of my subject too great a share in the thoughts and multifarious labours of busy men ? I think not. For myself, being not without serious occupations, an attentive study of it has agreeably occupied many leisure hours at home and abroad ; but it has furthermore performed good service in the interest of health. And if I have been rightly understood, this imperfect attempt to popularise a few undoubted truths in relation to the selection, the cookery, and the service of food, will bo regarded as a manifesto, which assuredly it is intended to be, on behalf of true temperance. In one word let me conclude:—if in professional life for some of us, the chief power lies in a skilled right hand, and in the temperament which pertains thereto, it is no less true that a practical acquaintance with the laws of diet and digestion becomes also a power in the combat with disease, not far inferior to the other in importance. My last word, then, no less than my first, shall testify to the value for all men of some knowledge in relation to their Food aud Feeding.APPENDIX. ON THE POT-AU-FEU, SOUPS, &C. Pot-au-feii: Jules Gouffe's instructions for making it—The receipt of Alexandre Dumas—Braising—Bceuf a la Mode—Vegetable Soup—Beef-tea—Table showing when Fish is in Season— Children’s Dinner Tables—The Food of the Working Man. Jules Gouffe’s instructions for the Pot-au-feu, referred Children’ to, page 82. _ ?£?£ “ The broth (bouillon) of beef is the foundation ofp domestic cookery. “ It constitutes the most essential and really nourish- ing part of our daily food, that is, good meat soup. It is, moreover, the basis of a large number of culinary preparations such as ragouts, sauces, purees, &c. “ The chief of all broths is undeniably beef-broth, many others, of course, existing, such as those of fowl, vegetables, fish, and game. “ The production of a good pot-au-feu seems to me to be one of those operations, at the same time elementary and fundamental, with which it is of the highest im- portance to render every one familiar, as soon as domestic cooking is treated of. “ I shall not refrain from entering into the most minute details, even though it bring a smile to the face of those who take no heed of that which forms the first step in cooking. What I attach most importance to is, to enable even a person who approaches a range for the first time in his life, to make quite sure of succeeding, if my instructions arc followed precisely.Food and Feeding. 200 “The Pot. “ Four different kinds of pot arc employed in domestic cookery :— 1. A cast-iron pot. 2. An earthenware pot. 3. A tinned iron pot. . 4. A copper pot. “ I object strongly to the first two kinds ; to a cast- iron pot, because it is very difficult, if not impossible, to remove the grease, which, after a certain time, becomes engrained in the pores of the cast-iron. I object equally to the earthenware pot, which enjoys a reputation among certain housewives so little warranted. So far from im- proving the broth, it spoils it in every way. When new it preserves for a long time a taste of earth and varnish, of which hot water can never altogether deprive it; when old, it acquires a taste of rancid fat, which no amount of washing can destroy. On the other hand I specially recommend pots of tinned iron or copper, as they arc easily washed, and as it is quite impossible to make a good broth unless the vessel is absolutely clean. “ The Ingredients of the Pot-ciu-Feu. “ I make a distinction between the big and the small pot-au-feu, the latter being for use on ordinary occasions, the former on extraordinary occasions. The small pot- ciu-feu consists of :— 1 lb. 10 oz. of meat (750 grammes). Nearly 5 oz. of bones (125 grammes), (which is about the quantity of bones usually sold with the meat). 7 pints of water (4 litres). 1 oz. of salt (30 grammes). 5| oz. of carrots (150 grammes). 5|- oz. of onions ( „ )• 51 oz. of turnips ( „ ). 7^oz. of leeks (200 grammes). Nearly h oz. of celery (10 grammes). 1 clove—stuck in an onion.201 Ingredients for Pot-au-Feu. Nearly an ounce of parsnips (25 grammes).* “Some people add to th q pot-au-feu a little garlic, but I do not recommend it—the flavour of garlic, which is always so pronounced, tends to destroy the aroma of the broth, and further, it renders it unfit for the use of invalids. “ For the extra pot-au-fetc, double the quantity of meat and vegetables, but use only ten and a half pints of water in the place of seven. Perhaps it will be asked if the small pot-au-feu (that which I purposely call ‘small’), will answer the requirements of a small household in which the cookery is necessarily reduced within narrow limits. I do not for a moment overlook the necessities even of the smallest households. The small pot-au-feu furnishes a quantity of broth for lour or five persons. But if the household consists of only two persons, it may be considered usual to make soup enough to last for two days. Besides, it is convenient to keep some in reserve as a sauce for a made dish. “ The Meat. “ The portions of beef adapted for the pot-au-feu are the thick portions of the leg and shoulder; the lower parts (knee and below) are inferior, as consisting chiefly of bone, skin, and tendon. On the whole, perhaps, the leg is superior to the shoulder for the purpose. All meat employed should be as fresh as possible. “ Mode of proceeding for the Pot-au-feu. “ In the first place care must be taken to have a well- made fire which will last without much addition of coal, and will supply a constant gentle heat. The cover of the pot should be left slightly open, as broth becomes cloudy in a closed vessel. “Next proceed as follow's :— “Separate the meat from the bones, tying up the * The quantity of parsnip is curiously small. If wanted, and it certainly is a desirable addition, why not treble the weight ? I) Dformer to keep it in form for serving afterwards, and chopping the bones into morsels. First put the bones in the pot and the meat upon them. Pour in the water cold, and place the pot on tho fire. Add the salt. Make it boil, and as soon as the scum rises, pour in a little cold water. Skim with a perforated spoon. Let it boil three separate times, and skim each time, after which the broth should be sufficiently skimmed. Wipe carefully the edges of the pot. Next add the vegetables named above, which will check the boiling for a minute ; as soon as it begins again, place the pot on the corner of the fire, or hot plate, letting it only simmer gently, five hours for the big, and three hours for the small pot-au- feu. It is essential that the simmering should be quite regular and continuous. When the broth is made, take out the meat and put it on a dish ; taste the broth and see if it is salt enough. If more salt is wanted, it should not be added till the broth has been put in the soup- tureen. Care should be taken not to salt the broth too highly at first, as it always becomes more salt on being warmed up the second day, and still more so when reduced to a sauce. “Another essential point is to free the broth perfectly from grease, after the meat is taken out, the pot being still on the fire. “ Observations on the Vegetables for the Pot-au-feu. “ The vegetables should be left in the broth only just long enough to cook them. By this time they have given their flavour to the broth, after which they would only rob it of its goodness. “ It is generally considered, and justly so, that the broth should have a golden tint; the flavour is not improved thereby, but the eye is satisfied. Yet care must be taken not to alter the flavour ; therefore if any colouring matter is used, it should be caramel, while fried onion, fried carrot, and similar substances, should be avoided for the reason given.” * * J. Gouffe : Lc Livvc dc la Cuisine. Paris. 1867. Pp. 39-17.Dumas Receipt for the Pot-au-Fcu 203 Dumas Receipt. By way of presenting a somewhat different view of the pot-au-feu, I subjoin the receipt of Alexandre Dumas, from the Dictionnaire cle Cuisine, his last work, and a posthumous publication. Dumas was an amateur cook of great experience, but, beyond a few favourite dishes, and one or two with which his name is always connected, he depended for his receipts in the large volume referred to, on his old friend Vuillemot, up to a comparatively recent date the famous proprietor of the pleasant quarters at St. Cloud, well-known as the The Noire. Of this work Dumas furnished, and very abundantly, all the literary material, a medley of popular scientific jottings with plenty of gossip and numerous anecdotes. It will be seen that for the pot-au-feu he adheres to the old tradition of an earthen pot; the real reason for which is, that at the ordinary fireplace, such a pot, being a bad heat conductor, favours slow and very gentle simmering better than an iron pot, which, on making only a small addition to the fire, is apt to boil briskly and so injure the broth. On a cooking-range, such as those now in general use, the iron pot is as manageable as one of earth, and is preferable for the reasons given by Couffe. While strictly adhering to the principle that thz pot-au-feu must consist of beef broth, and of a dish of beef to follow, Dumas admits some odds and ends to be added “in a horse-hair hag.” Even in this receipt, the hand of the amateur is visible ; for while giving instructions, and most con-ectly, not to put the meat into boiling water at first, which would harden the surface of flesh, and lock up the albumen within, the broth being impoverished in consequence, he omits to state that the mutton and veal, which he orders to be partially roasted before using [really in order to communicate the flavour so produced] must be subsequently sliced, otherwise their albumen, which is completely locked up by roasting, will not enter the broth, and the pot-au-feu will be a failure so far as204 Food and Feeding. that is concerned. It should be added that Dumas admits mutton and veal as ingredients, to be adopted only in the south of France, where beef is often inferior or not procurable. “The basis of a goodpot-au-feu is beef .... “ Choose the freshest and juiciest meat you can find ; let it be thick ; for if thin, it will be exhausted in the cooking; do not wash it, or you will rob it of a portion of its juice. When the meat has been separated from the bones, tie it up, so that it may keep its shape, and put it in the pot with a pint of water to every pound of meat “ We have advised you to separate the bones from the meat, not indeed because we banish them from the pot- aufeu; on the contrary, we reserve for them a separate place, only we break them up well with a mallet, because the more they are broken, the more effectually is the gelatine extracted from them. Then we place them in a horsehair bag with any scraps of fowl, rabbit, partridge, or roast pigeon, which may be found in the larder; in fact, the remains of yesterday’s dinner. “ Next, put your pot on the fire ; you are doubtless aware that an earthenware pot is preferable to an iron pot ; heat it gently ; otherwise, if the meat is attacked by too high a temperature, the albumen will coagulate in the interior, and the osmazome will be prevented from becoming dissolved, and the broth will be wanting in flavour. “ When the broth has been well skimmed, and has begun to boil, put in some salt, and, according to the quantity, three or four carrots, three or four turnips, a couple of parsnips, a bunch of celery and leeks tied to- gether, and lastly three onions, one of which should have a head of garlic stuck in it, the other two having a clove each. “ If, following the bent of your caprice or a long-estab- lished habit, you like to add a piece of mutton or veal to the ingredients we have named, remember to roast or grill it first (to deprive it of grease). Seven hours ofOrdinary Braising. 205 gentle and regular boiling are necessary to give the broth all the desired qualities.” •> Ordinary Braising. J ulcs Gouffe’s instructions for Bceuf a la Mode, referred to, p. 82. “Take about 41bs. (2 kilos) of thick beef-steak cut square. Take nearly f lb. (3 hectos) of fat bacon, cut off the rind which should be put aside to blanch,+ and then cut the bacon in strips for larding, about one-third of an inch square, and sprinkle them with pepper. Lard the meat and tie it up, as for the pot-au-feu. Place the piece of meat in a stew-pan with rather less than a pint of white wine, a wine-glass of brandy, a pint of stock, a pint of water ; two calves’ feet already boned and blanched, and the rind of the bacon also blanched. Put it on the fire, adding a little less than 1 oz. of salt (30 grammes). Make it boil, and skim it as for a pot-au-feu ; next, having skimmed it, add fully lib. (500 grammes) of carrots, one onion, three cloves, one faggot of herbs, and two pinches of pepper. Place the stew-pan on the corner of the stove, cover it, and allow it to simmer very gently, for four hours and a-half. Try the meat with a skewer to ascer- tain when it is sufficiently cooked ; then put it on a dish with the carrots and the calves’ feet, and keep them covered up hot until serving. Next, strain the gravy through a fine tammy; remove carefully every atom of grease, and reduce it over the fire about a quarter. Lastly, untie the beef, place it on the dish for serving ; add the calves’ feet, each having been cut in eight pieces, the carrots cut into pieces the size of a cork, and ten glazed onions. Arrange the calves’ feet, carrots and onions round the beef, pour the sauce over the meat, * Alexandre Dumas, Grand Dictionnaire de Cuisine. Paris, 1873, pp. 867-70, art. Potage. + To “ blanch ” is simply plunging, either vegetable or meat, as the case may be, into boiling water for a minute or two, to remove acrid matters in the first case, and to aid cleansing in the second. To “ refresh,” is to dip them into cold water immediately afterwards for a. minute or two*206 Food and Feeding. keeping the surplus for the next day. Taste it, in order to ascertain if sufficiently seasoned. Beef a la mode should be very relishing ; sometimes a clove of garlic is added. I do not mention this as a necessary item, but as one which must be decided by the lady of the house.” “ Observations on Beef a la Mode. “Beef a la mode is so useful and so justly appreciated in domestic cookery, that I think it will be worth while to recapitulate the principal details of the process, so that there may be no error in carrying it out. “ The important question, after the choice of the meat, is the cooking, which must be done entirely by slow sim- mering; and this is one of the most essential points for success. For when exposed to a hot fire the result is a white, watery, insipid gravy, such as is too often found in kitchens where cooking is carelessly done. The gravy ought to be red in colour, rather gelatinous in consis- tence, and full of the agreeable flavour and nutritive matter of both meat and vegetables, which is the distinc- tive mark of the dish. To obtain this excellent quality, the vegetables should be put into the braising pot at the proper time, so that all are cooked together. “ I advise in regard of all braised meats, whether beef or veal, that the portions should be rather too large than too small; a long process of cooking succeeds always better with such, than with tiny portions. A second ex- cellent dish can always be made cold with the addition of jelly. It appears to me better then to eat twice following of a good dish thus varied, than to cook the small quan- tity which suffices only for one meal.” * Soups made from Vegetables onhj. I append the following as an example of a good con- somme made from vegetables only, and therefore maigre ; if well done it is very fragrant and agreeable in warm weather. Illustrates the subject treated p. 99. * Lc Lure dc Cuisine. J. GoufTd. Paris, 1867, pp. 1-6-S.Directions for making Good Beef-Tea. 207 Consomme of Fresh Vegetable Hoots. Cat in slices 2f lbs. of carrots and the same weight of onions; put them in a stewpan with some parsley, thyme, shalot, aud celery, and also lib. 2oz. of butter. Fry gently to a red colour, add 8f pints of water, let it boil, and skim it; Next put into it a pint and three quarters of pea3 and a couple of lettuces ; Then add :— 1f oz. of salt, t oz. of whole pepper, 1 pinch of nutmeg, 3 cloves, If pint of dried peas, If pint of white haricots. Let it simmer for three hours at the side of the fire, skim off the grease and strain through a cloth ; then put aside for use. Op. cit. pp. 348-9. This consomme may form the basis of spring soup, iulienne, brunoise a ax ceufs poches, crecy, &c., fresh vegetables and other materials being added, after the analogy in each case of the potages gras. THE AETILOR’s DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING GOOD BEEF-TEA. Chop fine or mince with a machine, a pound and a half of gravy beef from which the fat has been removed. Place it in an earthen jar with a lid, add a pint of cold water, and let it remain an hour, occasionally stirring and pressing the meat firmly with an iron spoon. Then place the jar, with the lid on, in a sauce- pan large enough to cover it, with water sufficient to reach nearly to the lid, but not near enough when gently boiling to rise above it and enter the jar. The water in the saucepan is to be kept at aboutFood and Feeding. boiling point or a little under, at the corner of the fire for three hours, adding a little water occasionally, to replace that which evaporates. When the time has expired the jar may be removed, the beef-tea drained from the meat, which is then to be pressed as closely as possible through a coarse straining cloth so as to extract all the liquid. After standing a short time the beef-tea will become clear, much light brown fiakey matter falling to the bottom. By no means remove this, as it is nutritious material, unless any special orders have been given to the contrary. When cold, the fluid will be slightly gelatinous, varying somewhat as the meat used may vary in the amount of skin, tendon, or other fibrous tissue contained therein. Jf, however, “shin of beef,” which of course includes bone, is used as well as gravy beef, say a pound of each, add the meat detached from the bone to the pound of gravy beef and treat them together as already described ; but utilize the bone by breaking it with a chopper or hammer, after which the pieces are to be placed in a small saucepan apart, with a pint of cold water, for an hour. Then the whole is to be slowly brought to boiling point, and to be maintained at the same until the liquid is reduced to the third of a pint, which is to be strained off and mixed with the beef-tea already made ; a firm jelly will result when cold. A strong solution of gelatine has thus been added to the meat extractives and albumen obtained by the first process, materially improving the value of the compound. When cold, remove the small quantity of fat which is always to be found on the surface, and heat what is required, as wanted. If the beef-tea is to be served as soon as made without cooling, remove as much of the fat as possible with a teaspoon, and the small remainder by means of white blotting-paper. No better vessel exists for the treatment of the meat (not for the bones) than a small Warren pot; see p. G8.When Fish is in Fine Condition. MONTHS OF THE YEAR WHEN FISH IS IN FINE CONDITION. The spaces are in that case left blank ; when not fine a x is placed under the month. It may often be fairly good when the month is crossed, but it is not fine. Referred to at page 172. Fish. January. £ c3 p rS p* March. April. May. June. July. August. September. October. November. December. Brill . . . X X X X X Cod X X X X X Crab. X X X X X X X X Dory . X Eel . X X Flounder X X X X X Grayling . X X X X X X X Gurnard X X X X X X Haddock . . X X X X X X Hake X X X X X Halibut . . X X X X X X Herring. X X X Ling. . . X X X X X X Lobster . X X X Mackerel . . X X X X X X X Mullet (red) . X X X X X >> (grey). X X X X X X X X Mussel . X X X X Oyster . . X X X X X Pike X X X X X X X Plaice . . X X X X X Prawn . X X X Salmon . . X X X X X X X X Sea Trout X X X X X X X X X X Skate . . X X X X X X Smelt . X X X X X X Sole . X X X Sturgeon X X X X X Trout . . X X X X X X X X Turbot . X X X X X Whitebait. . X X X X X X Whiting x X X X X210 Food and Feeding. THE CHILDREN’S DINNER TABLE. This has become so well known and so popular an in- stitution that I can scarcely leave it unnoticed. The more so as its origin is, I may be permitted to say, not without interest personal to myself. Victor Hugo, when an exile in Guernsey, established a substantial meat dinner for very poor children, in the belief that even this amount of good nourishment sup- plied once or twice a week would afford them valuable aid during the period of rapid growth, by developing the constitution of these young people, and thus im- prove the stamina of the rising generation. And he ad- vocated the general adoption of the system from this point of view, in some letters on the subject in the local press. By some means these fell into the hands of Lady (at that time Mrs.) Thompson who forthwith resolved to try the experiment in Marylebone. Having consulted the clergyman of the parish, who approved the plan, she issued the following prospectus :— “It is proposed to supply liot dinners of wholesome food for poor children, especially those who are, or have been in bad health, and who need more nutritious diet than their homes afford. “ On and after the beginning of October it is intended to engage a room where twice a week such children may come for a meal of meat, vegetables and bread, all of the best quality; and where, with only just enough discipline to ensure good order and behaviour, their hunger shall, be satisfied, the means of restored health pro- vided, and habits of neatness taught. “The room will be in the immediate neighbourhood of High Street, Marylebone. “ The arrangements are in active progress, but the cost of furni- ture and kitchen utensils involves some outlay, hence immediate donations are earnestly solicited for this purpose. “Further, any person may become a subscriber by paying the sum of 3s. 6d., which will entitle him or her to ten tickets, and to the privilege of sending children to that number of dinners,—each child paying one penny for every dinner afforded. The ticket must be left at the room before 9 o’clock on the morning of the day on which its recipient will dine, so that the number may be provided for. The dinners will commence in October and continue till July. ‘ ‘ Tickets will be sure - of beneficial distribution if forwarded to any of the neighbouring hospitals or local dispensaries, to the clergy, or the district visitors.211 Origin of Childrens Dinner 7'ables. “A list of these, and full information on all points connected with the establishment of this ‘ Children’s Dinner Table,’ may be obtained by those willing to co-operate, on application to Mrs. Eyre, 20, Upper Wimpole Street ; or Mrs. Henry Thompson, Treasurer, 35, Wimpole Street ; or Mrs. H. G. Wright, Secretary, 23, Somerset Street, Portman Square. Subscriptions may be paid to the Bankers, Sir S. Scott & Co., 1, Cavendish Square. Tickets may be had at Thomas & Co.’s Stationery Warehouse, 21, Great Marylebone Street. “August, 1806.” The scheme was well supported b}r friends and neigh- bours, and came into operation early in October. Her first report thereon (also now before me), dated November of that year, and therefore when the plan had been tried only six weeks, shows that the dinners had been pro- vided “every Wednesday and Saturday at 12 o’clock. The room accommodates 60 children : at present (Novem- ber, 1886) the largest attendance has been 44-.” And it goes on to say that “ a dinner can be sent to a child too ill to attend, if the messenger applies at the room before nine in the morning,” &c.,—a further development of the original plan. This was the first public children’s free dinner-table provided in this country. Victor Hugo was delighted with this endeavour to realise his idea in London, and Avrote to the pioneer of his views here earnestly and encouragingly to persevere in her work. From that time to the present day, this institution has continued under the same management, and has been very popular and well supported, so that its funds and operations have been largely increased. A kitchen open daily for good and cheap soup has been associated with it. Within a few months after the date named, autumn, 1866, other such public tables were instituted, the next being, I believe, that of the Baroness Meyer de Rothschild. The object of the present Marylebone dinner is still the original one, viz. to supply a full meal of hot meat and vegetables twice a week, for those whose food is habitually scanty and not sufficiently nutritious. Hence, no attempt has been made in' connection with it to provide a cheap or “penny dinner table,” especiallyFood and Feeding. 212 as such institutions have been established and are effect- ively working in the parish. Many of these institutions furnish valuable help to the poorest class, and especially to the children of the Board Schools in various parts of the country. Well- known illustrations exist on a large scale in various parts of London; of which those established by Mrs. Jeune at the East End may be named, since they have existed for several years, have been most effectively managed, and are deservedly popular. Moreover, they have been conducted on a very large scale, Mrs. Jeune having at various centres furnished as many as 280,000 dinners in one winter—last season the number reached 170,000. The meals furnished under her supervision have varied somewhat in quality and price according to the locality and the source from which the funds to support them are obtained. In the Bethnal Green district, the children have been supplied five days a week during four or five months, with soup, or suet pudding with jam (roley-poley) on alternate days, at a cost of rather more than three farthings for the former, including bread, and about a halfpenny for the latter. The soup is made from meat and bones, i3 thickened with peas and flavoured by vege- tables, &c. Not a few of such organisations have been recently united by combining to form “ The London Schools Dinner Association.” The first report has just appeared, January, 1891, from which it appears that other impor- tant institutions of a similar kind, including that des- cribed above, are co-operating with this Society, although not incorporated in it. The Association has furnished grants of money in numerous localities where such help has been really needed. AUTIlOlt’s RECEIPT FOR CHEAP, NUTRITIOUS SOUP. The following is recommended to make a cheap but really good and nourishing soup. Take six pounds of shin of beef; the bone to be broken into small fragments and set, together with the meat cut up fine or minced,213 A uthors Receipt for Nutritious Soup. to stand two hours in a gallon of water, at about 90° to 100°, occasionally stirring. Then drain off all the liquor; separate all the meat and set this aside. The bones are now to be placed in a saucepan with another gallon of water over the fire and well boiled for six hours, supply- ing loss from evaporation afterwards by adding sufficient water to make up the gallon. The two liquors may then be mixed and used as a stock to be incorporated with a puree of haricots or split peas, etc., and thickened by six pounds of fine or medium Scotch oatmeal. Meantime fry in a pound of lard, onions, celery, and carrots suffi- cient, sliced, all of which, together with the meat, are to be set aside, well rubbed down, and stirred into the soup at the end of the process. The puree is to be made of twenty pounds of split peas or the same of haricots or lentils, alone or mixed, which have been soaked twenty-four hours in cold water, and slowly simmered until tender, requiring therefore about four hours more. Lastly, the oatmeal is to be mixed smooth in a little cold water, and added by degrees to two gallons of hot water. Bring to the boil and simmer for an hour. Add slowly, thoroughly incorporating all the preceding ingredients with eight gallons of hot water ; add salt and pepper, heat to the boiling point, to be ready for use. The result will be twelve gallons, or ninety-six pints. Cost- s. cl 6 lb. shin of beef . . . .23 20 lb. split peas 2 6 7 lb. of oatmeal . . . .14 Vegetables, say . . ..08 1 lb. of lard . . . . .08 l’epper and salt . . ..01 7 6 Cooking 0 6 8 0 Or one penny a pint. The quality of the above is exceedingly good. If the same ingredients were treated with sixteen gallons of2 14 Food and Feeding. ■water, making 128 pints and producing 10s. 8d.; 2s. 8d. balance might be laid out in bread, and a substantial slice given to accompany each pint of soup, for the same cost of one penny. But even then the soup is stronger than that usually furnished at the cheap dinner table for children. The receipts furnished by the Rev. Moore Ede in his little work, referred to at page 73, are excellent, and suita- ble for supplying some variety of cheap nutritious foods for such dinners. THE DINNER OF THE WORKING-MAN. Mr. Edward Atkinson, whose Aladdin oven has been referred to at page 74, has recently constructed, on the same principle, “ a workman’s pail,” measuring ten inches in height by six in diameter, including a sufficient coating of non-conducting material, and containing a lamp, two cylindrical boxes containing oatmeal or maize meal and water, some meat to stew, Ac., besides a coflee- pot, which will provide him with at least two good hot meals, without requiring any supervision, of excellent food at a very cheap rate. He writes just in time to enable me to refer to his suggestion at the close of the Appendix. From his description of the apparatus, his own confidence in “ his assured success,” grounded on experiments made, the details of which enable me to form an opinion, I do not doubt that it may prove a valuable boon to an intelligent workman, who is not a slave to custom and prejudice. 1 may say that I have had opportunities of observing the dining habits of work- men, notably during October and November last before the frost set in, of those engaged in laying down the electric cable throughout the streets in my own neigh- bourhood. Supplied with braziers containing heated coke for the purpose of their work, these are utilised at the midday meal. An iron plate being placed thereon, a piece of meat is ruthlessly scorched, hardened until tough and juiceless, unflavoured by herb or onion, un-215 The Workman's Hot Dinner. accompanied by vegetable,—to be eaten by hand with more or less of dry bread, in alternate bites. A more wasteful cookery, if the term bo applicable, and a less satisfactory result for both palate and stomach, it would be difficult to conceive. I have longed to show to them a more excellent way, but have feared that any offer to suggest one, would be regarded as impertinence, or as meddlesome interference on my part. I hope soon to be in possession of a “ workman’s pail,” through the kind- ness of my friendly correspondent, its inventor, and if I find it as efficient as I have reason to believe it will be, I shall be only too glad to let it be seen and tested by some of those whom it so much concerns. A dinner for two persons could be easily cooked in a pail of small size, say six inches by eight, as follows :—• Six sausages. . . . . . . 7cl. Oat or wheat meal to make thick porridge (better than mashed potatoes) . . Id. Bread \\d. Coffee with milk l^d. 11a7. This is based on a receipt of Mr. Atkinson, altered a little to meet English taste. The American workman uses “Indian meal,” that is maize or Indian corn ground, which is not so easily procurable here. Very little attention is required, when the method of using the apparatus has been learned, and a far more nutritious and agreeable meal is provided than the workman usually gets.i * ; \INDEX AErated waters, 167 Aladdin oven (an American cooking apparatus), 74 ; its construction, 75 Analyses of flesh and fish, &c., 123 Animal kingdom, a rapid survey of, 17 Arctic regions, food required in, 24, 27 Arrowroot, 15 Artichokes, 16 Asparagus, 16; how to lioil, 103 note; as an entremet, 103; cold boiled as a salad, 116 Aspic jelly as a garnish, 114 ; author’s receipt for making, 114 Atkinson, Mr. E., cooking appa- ratus designed by, 74 ; work- man’s pail for ccoking a small dinner, 214 Bacon an adjunct to starchy foods, 24 Bain-marie described, 68 Baking, cooking meat by, 77 Baking-powder, formula for, 43 note Banana, an important food in tropi- cal climates, 16 Basse, a little-known fish, 128 Beans a valuable food, 15, 36 Becker’s cooking apparatus, 72 Beef, excellence of English, 195 Beef-broth (“bouillon”), 93, 199 Beef-fat or dripping, value for fry- ing, 89 Beef-tea, 65, 124 note; author’s directions for making, 207 Beer, 5 I Beet, constituents of, 15 ; cooked i in salad, 117 Bilious attacks, causes of, 4, 45 Bisques, 100, 179 Board-schools, cheap dinners for children of, 212 Bceuf-a-la-mode, 82 ; Goufle’s re- ceipt for, 206 Boiling, cooking meat by, 64—76 Bouillabaise, Marseillaise, 100—1 ; receipt for making, 138—9 ; Thackeray’s lines on, 101 note Bouilli, 94 Bouillon, 93, 199 ; constituents of grand bouillon, 95 Brain-workers, food for, 19, 32—34 Braising, 79 ; principles of, 80 ; ordinary, 205 Bread, rarely seen in Norway and Sweden, 24 ; whole wheat-meal, 35, 41-2 ; butter or cheese re- quired by, 49 ; constituents of wheaten, 122; “ Baker’s bread ” made in London is often unpalat- able and indigestible, 196 Bread-fruit, a valuable food, 16 Breakfast, characteristics of, 143 Broiling, cooking meat by, 78 Burton, Mr. W., fish-oven made by, 134, note Butcher’s meat, wasteful use of by English artisans, 26, 31, 44 ; constituents of, 120—123 Cabbages as food, 16 Carrots, constituents of, 15 Cat-lish or wolf-fish, 1^8 Cauliflower as an entremet, 103 Caviare, 148 ; should be fresh, 188 Coleriae, 11’7 F FIndex. 2 18 Celery, 10 ; uncooked, for salad, 117 Cereals, contain all elements neces- sary to life, 14 Chapon truffle, 187 Character and food, relation be- tween, 2 Cheese, a valuable diet for the labourer, 26, 45 ; largely used by Swiss mountaineers, 45 ; im- proved by cooking, 46 “Cheese fondu,” Swiss, formula for, 46 Chestnuts, 16, 22; as garnish, 103 Chick-pea, 23 Children, often ill-fed, 3 Children’s free dinner table at Marylebone, history of, 210 Climate in relation to food, 21—24 Coal-iish, good when in season, 128 Cocoa, 17 Cocoa-nut, a valuable food in tro- pical countries, 16 Cod, value as food, 126 ; superiority of fish caught at the Dogger Bank,128 Coffee, 17 ; insipid mixture sold in hotels and railway stations, 92 ; relation of tobacco to, 165 Condiments, 16 Conger, excellent for soup and stews, 128 Consomme, constituents of, 95, 96, 97, 99 ; fish, receipt for, 136 Constipation, causes of, 42 Cookery of fish, 130—140 Cookery, ignorance of the principles of, 63 ; French and English com- pared, 82—86 ; works on, 102 note, 113 note, 117 note; import- ance of schools of, 64, 194 Cooking at low temperature, 70—5 Cooking-pot, Capt. Warren’s, 68, 70 Covent Garden Market, inadequate for the supply of London, 196 Crayfish, purges of, 100 CroCite-au-pot, 38, 94 Cucumbers, 16; as garnish, lu3 Curry, 48 ; how to boil rice for, 112 —113 ; when out of place, 157 D.aiiY produce, deficient supply of, in London, 196 Dates, largely eaten as food in the East, 22 Dessert, 155 ; wines at, 156 Diet, danger of sudden changes, 12, 34 ; circumstances modifying, 27, 28 ; soups an important item of, 91 Dinners, character sties of, 144 ; family, 145 ; small and select, 150 ; society, 151 ; improvement in modern, 153 ; custom of ladies retiring, 155 ; suggestions ns to small, 158; wine with, 160; a complete dinner-scheme, 173— 175 ; menus for each month in the year, 177—182 ; menus in F'rench, 179—184 ; contrast of dishes at, 185 ; public, with hints for their improvement, 189—192. Doiy, an excellent fish, 127, 135 Drinking, early habits of, 5 Dripping, bee1, for frying, 89 Dumas, Alexander, receipt by, for the pot-au-feu, 203 Ede, .Rev. W. Moore, lecture by, on cheap food and cooking, 73, 214 ; his cooking apparatus, 73—74. j Eels, 128 Eggs, a perfect food, 8, 10, 12, 23; new-laid, a luxury in London, 196 Endive, 16 ; as a garnish, 79 Entrees, 154 Entremets, 103 Erbswurst of the German army, ingredients of, 36 Fats necessary as food do produce animal heat and force, 10, 15, 22, 157 Figs, plentiful in Spain, 23 Fish, a nutritious food, 18, 31, 33, 120, 124 note; deficient supply in Great Britain, 30 ; consti- tuents of, 122-3. 4 : few varie-219 Index. ties used as food, 125 ; “ clean- ing” by fishmonger a wasteful process, 129; should partly fur- nish its own sauce, 131 ; a new method of cooking, 133 ; months when in fine condition, 209 ; boiling, a wasteful process, 135 Fish dinners, 157 Fish soups, 100, 136, 137 Fish-stew, an economical, 139 Flageolets, 37 note, 105 ; in salads, 118 Flouuders, 127 Food, importance of its proper selection and preparation, 1 ; effect on man, morally and phy- sically, 2; “taste” in, to be cultivated, 7 ; necessary consti- tuents, 9 ; value of inert mat- ters, 41 ; more facilities needed for its distribution, 197 French Beans, 36, 105, 118 ; sautes, 106 Freshwater fish as food, 129 Frog, edible, 18 Fruits, chemical constituents of, 16 Frying, 86 ; practical directions, 87 ; value of olive oil and beef dripping for, 89 Haricots, furnish an admirable salad when stewed, 39 ; nutritive value of, 40 ; various methods of cooking, 37, 38, 105 Hart, Mr. Ernest, on the spread of zymotic disease, 55 Headaches, sick, causes of, 4 Herrings, a cheap and excellent food for the working-classes, 18, 127 Herbs, sweet and savoury, 23 Honey, 17 Hors d’oeuvres, 147—149 Hotch-potch (a Scotch soup), 98 Hugo, Victor, meat dinner for poor children at Guernsey established by, 210 Indigestion, 6, 50 Infants, errors in feeding, 3 Irish stew, receipt for, 69 Italy, foods consumed in, 22 Jeune, Mrs., dinners supplied to poor children by, 212 Julienne soup, 97 Kitcheners, baking in, 77 Koumiss, or fermented milk, 59 Game, 84 ; its nutritive value, 17 Garlic as a condiment, 23 Garnitures for soups, 102—3 ; for cold dishes, 114 German Empire, foods consumed in, 24 Gieshiibel aerated water, 168 Gouffe’s instructions for the pot-au- feu, 199—202 Gourds, 16 Grapes, abundant in Spain, 23 Gurnard, makes a good dish, 128 Haddocks, an excellent food, 127, 135 ; as an addition to salads, 119 Hake, a cheap but good fish, 128 Halibut, 128 Halles Centrales, Paris, remarks on, 197 Labouring classes in England, dietary of, 25, 35—7, 45 Lactometer, use of, 57 Lard a bad menstruum for frying, 89 Laver, as food, 16 ; an adjunct to roast mutton, 182 note Legumes, constituents of, 15 ; value as food, 26 Lentils, constituents of, 15 ; nutri- tive value of, 40 Lettuces, 16 ; as a garnish, 79 Ling, a cheap fish, 128 List of fish in season, 209 London Schools Dinner Association, 212 Lunch, characteristics of, 143 Macaroni, a valuable food, 15, 22,Index. 220 48, 108 ; author’s receipts for macarcsii au jus, 109 ; and for other forms, 109, 110 Mackerel, an oily fish, 127 Maize or Indian corn, 22, 23 ; con- stituents of, 48 ; largely con- sumed in Italy under the name of polenta, 48 Man originally a vegetarian, 18; his career a history of experi- ments in feeding, 19, 27 Marrows, 16 ; as an entremet, 103 Meals, daily, should be regular, 141 ; three systems of arranging, 141 ; characteristics of, 143 ; stimulants at, 148, 151, 160 ; water at, 166 Meat, various methods of cooking : boiling, 64—76 ; roasting, 76 ; baking, 77 ; broiling, 78 ; brais- ing, 79 ; stewing, 82 ; frying, 86 Meat, increased importations of, 30 Melons, 23, 169 Menus for dinner parties, 170 ; art of constructing, 171 ; for each month in the year, 177—182 ; should be written in French, 176; examples in French, 179— 184 ; examples in English, 177 Milk, nutritive value of, 8, 10, 17, 23, 26 ; a “complete” food, 52, 58 ; importance of obtaining a pure supply, 53, 59 ; typhoid disseminated by, 55 ; composition of, 56 ; not suitable for sedentary persons, 58 Millet, 22 Mills for grinding wheat, 44 Mineral waters, use of, 168 Molluscs or shell-fish, 18 Mullets, as food, 127, 132 Mulligatawny soup, 98 Mushroom ketchup, 79, 131 Mushrooms, nutritive value of, 16 ; grilled, 147 Mutton, excellence of English, 195 Norwegian cooking apparatus, 71-72 “Nutritious” food, 41 Nuts as food, 16 Oatmeal, constituents of, 11 Oil, sources of, 15 ; largely con- sumed in Italy, 22 Olive oil, 15 ; used in Spain as a substitute for butter, 23 ; the best available form of fat for fry- ing, 89 Olla, Spanish, ingredients of, 23 Omelette making must be practi- cally learnt, 90 Onions, 16, 38 (>ver-feeding, evils of, 28 Oysters, 18; service of before dinner, 149 Oyster soups, 100 Parsnip, constituents of, 15 Pastes, Italian, 107 Paysanne soup, 94 Peas, a valuable food, 15, 36 Peas, green, 39, 103 ; how to cook, 105 ; served a la Frangaise, 106 Physiological necessities for food, 8 Pilau, Turkish, 48, 111 ; how to make, 112 Pilchards, a useful food, 127 Plaice, nutritive qualities of, 127 Polenta, Italian, how made, 48 Polio con arroz, a Spaui.-h national dish, 48 Pollack, good when in season, 128 Pork, largely consumed in German v in the form of sausage, 24 Porridge, oat and rye-meal, eaten in the north of Europe, 24 Potatos, food constituents of, 11, 12, 15 ; require the addition of fatly matter, 49 ; in salads, 117, 118 Potage maigre, 39 ; further re- marks respecting, 98 Potage gras, 98 Potash-water, English, a trust- worthy article, 167 Pot-au-feu, ingredients of, 23, 50, 92—3, 200 ; Gouffes instructionsIndex. 2 2 I for its management, 82, 95, 199 —202 ; Dumas’ receipt, 203 Poultry, 17 ; in France, 23 ; cooked at a low temperature, 70—72 ; roasting, 76 Pumpkins, 16 Purges, various, 103. See Soups Race, influence on man’s mental character and physical tendencies, 2 Remoulade or salad-dressing, 117 Reptiles, food supplied by, 18 Rice, constituents of, 15, 47 ; the principal food in the tropics, 22 ; needful additions when eaten in ltalj’-, 47 (see 111) ; modes of cooking, 111—113 ; receipt for boiling for curry, 112 Risotto a la Milanaise, how to make, 111 “ Poast and boiled ”—the staple food of the middle-class English- man, 62 Roasting, cooking meat by, 76 ; principles of, 76 ; necessity for basting, 77 ; temperature of the interior, 67 Russia, Northern, staple food con- sumed in, 24 Rye, consumption in Italy, 22 ; in Norway and Sweden, 24 Sago, 15 St. Galmier aerated water, 168 Salad-dressing, 117 Salads—in Southern Europe and France, 22, 23 ; instructions for making and dressing, 115—6 ; made of cold boiled table vege- tables, 118; the French salade de legumes, 119 note Salmon, value as food, 126 ; not obtainable in Paris in a fresh, state, 132 ; crimping, 133 Salsify, 103 Salt, common, a necessary addition to food, 17 Sauces, principles of, 102 ; how to serve, 130 Sausage, meat eaten in form of, in Spain and Germany, 23, 24 ‘‘Sauter” —the French cookery term explained, 106 note Scallops as a substitute for oysters, 177 note Schools, public, improper food at, 5 Sea-bream, useful as food, 128 Seakale, 16 Seaweeds, nutritive value of, 16, 182 note Sedentary classes, food suitable to, 29, 33 Seltzer water, 168 Shell-fish, 18 ; as a garnish, 131,138 Skate, nutritive qualities of, 127 Smelt, easy of digestion, 126 Smith, Mr. L. O., of Stockholm, plan of cooking adopted bv, 73 Soda-water, English, trustworthy, 167 Sole, easy of digestion, 126 ; waste- ful process of cleaning, 129—130 Soup : fish, 100, 136, 137 ; haricot, 39 : turtle, 157; clear vegetable, receipt for, 99 ; Goufle’s directions for making, 207 ; white, 154 Soups almost unknown to the working man, 91 ; excellence of French, 92 ; nomenclature, 96 ; judgment required in flavouring, 101'; garnitures for, 102—3 ; an initial course at dinners, 146, 153 ; author’s receipt for cheap nutritious, 212—214 Spain, food consumed by inhabit- ants of, 23 Spinach, 16 Staehys tuberifera, a Japanese vegetable recently introduced into England, 1 IS note Starehv matters present in food, 11, i5, 22 Stewing, effective, 82 Stimulants, 5, 28 ; at meals, 148, 165 Stock-pot, the, 93—5 G GIndex. Sturgeon, value as food, 129 Sugar, 16 Sweets, at the modern dinner, 147, 152, 155 Tapioca, 15 Tea, 17, 153 ; afternoon, charac- teristics of, 143 Thackeray’s lines on bouillabaise, 101 note, Toasts at public dinners, suggestions concerning, 190—192 Tobacco, effects of, 161 ; coffee a natural ally, 165 Tomato, 16, 49 ; simple cookery alone admissible, 107 ; uncooked, 116 Tropics, food in the, 22, 26 Truffles, when in season, 178 note; remarks on, 187-8 ; French and English described, 187 note. Tubers and roots, foods derived from, 15 Turbot, a substantial food, 126 Turnip, constituents of the, 15 Turtle soup, 157 ; controversy re- specting, 98 note Typhoid fever epidemics caused by tainted milk, 55 United Kingdom, consumption of imported foods per head of popu- lation, 30 i Vegetable feeders, 10, 12 Vegetables, dried and compressed, flavour destroyed in the process ; 92 ; fresh, scarcity in London, 196 ; green, 16, 23, 24, 103 Vermicelli, a valuable food, 15 Vinegar, largely made from grain, 15 Warben cooking-pot, 68 Water, Londonsupply, 166; aerated, 166 ; dangers from drinking im- pure, 167 ; shoidd be boiled, 168 Water-melon at dinner, 169 Watercress as a garnish, 79 Wheat, value as food, 14, 35, 41 Whey, a wholesome beverage, 59 Whitebait dinners, Greenwich, 157 Whiting, easy of digestion, 126 Whole wheat-nn al bread, 35, 40, 42 Whole-meal cakes, receipt for, 42 Williams, Mr. M., on the Chemis- try of Food, 4-6, 77- Wines, 16, 146,-156 ; use and abuse of at meals, 160—2 ; how to secure’ fine quality, 163 Wolf-fish or cat-fish, value as food, 128 Working-man, dietary of the, 35-7, 45 ; hints for improving, 214 Yam, constituents of, 15 Zaktjska (the Russian’s hors- d’oeuvre), service of, 148 THE END. BRADBURY, AGNF.W Si CO. HMD, PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.