27 31. TOAD IN THE HOLE.— Ingredients: 6 oz. flour; i oz. Plasmon; 2 eggs; i| lb. lean meat; 1 pint tnilk ; seasoning. Method.—Mix the flour and Plasmon in a basin, make a well in the centre, and break in the eggs and some milk, mixing all smoothly to a batter, adding gradually the re- mainder of milk. Cut your meat in neat pieces, season, and lay in a greased tin or dish. Pour the batter over it, and bake for an hour. 32. PLASMON TRIPE.—Ingredients: i lb. tripe; 3 onions ; 1 dessertspoonful flour; 1 gill milk ; i| oz. Plasmon. Method.—Blanch the tripe and cut up. Peel and slice the onions. Mix the ig oz. Plasmon gradually with f pint of tepid ■water; then boil it for 2 minutes. While boiling add g salt- spoonful of salt to whiten it. When a little cool add the milk, onions, and tripe, and simmer gently for 2 hours. To thicken the sauce, just before serving mix the flour into a smooth paste with a little cold milk, and add. 33. PLASMON RICE CUTLETS.—Ingredients : 1 pint water ; 5 oz. ground rice ; piece of butter size of a walnut; 4 oz. button mushrooms ; 2 eschalots ; 6 teaspoonf uls Plasmon ; 1 egg ; breadcrumbs ; some plaiji boiled vegetables. Method.—Put into the stewpan 5 oz. of ground rice and 1 pint of water, stir over the fire till it boils, then draw to the side and let it cook for 20 minutes ; add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and stir frequently to prevent it from burning. When the rice is sufficiently cooked, add 4 oz. of button mushrooms and 2 eschalots (previously fried together in a little butter without discolouring), a dessertspoonful of tomato catsup, a pinch of ground mace, and pepper and salt to taste ; pound together in a mortar and pass through a coarse hair sieve. Next moisten 2 teaspoonfuls of Plasmon with a few teaspoonfuls of warm water and mix well with the other mixture; form into cutlets, dredge over with flour, then dip in a well-beaten egg and breadcrumbs and Plasmon powder; fry in boiling fat to a nice golden colour. Dish en courccnne on a border of mashed potatoes ; serve tomato sauce round, and pile in the centre any vegetables that are in season—peas, beans, or pur£e of spinach.