43 pan, cook over the fire for i minute, and bake in a moderately hot oven from S to io minutes; turn on to a sugared paper. Mix together i dessertspoonful of jam with i teaspoonful of Plasmon; put this in the middle of the omelet, and fold over. 86. STEAMED SOUFFLE. —Ingredients: i oz butter; i ozflour ; i gill Plasmon stock; 3 eggs ; sugar and flavouring. Method.—Melt 1 oz. butter in a saucepan; mix in 1 oz. flour, then add 1 gill Plasmon stock, also a little sugar and flavouring, and stir it until it boils. Remove from the fire, beat in the yolks of 3 eggs, whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; stir this lightly in. Pour the mixture into a well- greased plain mould with high sides, and steam very slowly for about half an hour. To serve, turn on to a dish and pour round it a custard sauce. 87. LEMON SOUFFLE (Cold). —Ingredients : 10 tea- spoonfuls Plasmon ; 1 pint warm water; 1 lemon, juice and rind ; 3 oz. castor sugar ; 3 eggs ; | oz. gelatine. Method.—Dissolve the Plasmon in the water, boil 4 minutes, add the gelatine. When slightly cool stir in the yolks of eggs ; cook the eggs and add the sugar, also the lemon rind, grated, and the juice strained. Tie a thick band of paper round a fancy charlotte mould (the paper should stand about two inches above the edge of the mould). Beat the whites of the eggs stiffly, and when the custard mixture is cool stir them in; beat the mixture with a whisk until it is almost set; fill in the prepared mould to the top of the paper. Let the mixture set—it will take about 1 hour ; remove the paper and serve on a folded serviette. The gelatine may be omitted if the souffle is preferred rather soft. 88. COLD CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. — Ingredients : Yolks of 8 eggs; \ oz. castor sugar; 3 oz. Plasmon chocolate; 1 gill milk; | pint cream ; \ lb. Fre7ich almo?id rock; whites of a, eggs ; 2 teaspoo?ifuls Plasmon ; vanilla ; chopped pistachios ; \ oz. gelatine. Method.—Pound the almond rock, melt chocolate in the milk, then dissolve the Plasmon in it; boil for 2 minutes and