23 season with salt. When it comes to the boil skim it, and let it simmer gently for f hour 5 then add the potatoes (previously washed, peeled, and cut in halves), the onions (peeled and sliced), salt and pepper, and lastly the Plasmon stock. Cook slowly for 1 hour. Dish up, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve.—“ Food and Cookery,” August, 1903. 18. SAYOURY PLASMON BALLS. —Ingredients: ilb. flour; 1 oz. Plasmon; 4 oz. beef suet; 1 egg; 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley and savoury herbs ; salt and pepper. Method.—Sift the flour and mix with the Plasmon. Free the suet from skin and chop it finely. Add this to the flour, etc., together with the parsley and herbs. Season with a good pinch of salt and pepper, and moisten with the egg and a little milk or water. Work this into a fairly stiff paste. Divide it into small portions, and shape each into a ball. Put them into a stewpan with enough stock to cover, and cook gently for about an hour or longer. Serve with the hot liquor or gravy. This is a very nourishing and tasty dish.—“Food and Cookery,” August, 1903. 19. MUTTON COLLOPS. —Ingredients: \lb. lean mutton; i oz. butter; 1 dessertspoonful flour; 1 slice of onion; 1 gill Plasmon stock, No. 1, page 17/ salt and pepper; mashed potatoes or fried bread croutons to garnish. Method.—Remove the skin and fat from the meat and cut it into very small dice, or chop it (not too finely). Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the onion (finely chopped), and fry a little. Put in the flour and fry likewise; then add the meat, and stir the whole over the fire for a few minutes. Moisten with the stock and cook gently for | hour. Season to taste, and serve in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes, or garnish with triangular-shaped slices of fried bread.—“Food and Cookery,” August, 1903. 20. SHEPHERD’S PIE.—Mince up any kind of cold meat; season with salt and pepper; add a little butter, also 2 tablespoonfuls of gravy. Put it in a pie dish; cover with a thick layer of mashed potatoes mixed with \ gill of Plasmon stock, No. 2, page 17. Bake in a hot oven to brown for | hour.—“ Food and Cookery,” August, 1903.