24 21. HAM RELISH (a Dainty Dish for Breakfast).— Ingredients: 2 tecispoonfuls Plasmon powder; 6 oz. cooked ham; 4 preserved mushrooms ; 1 hard-boiled egg; | gill cream ; chopped parsley ; seasoning; 2 slices toasted bread. Method.—Dissolve the Plasmon in half a gill of tepid water. Chop the ham and mushrooms finely. Chop each separately. Put the yolk of egg into a clean, well-tinned saucepan, rub with a wooden spoon till smooth, and gradually add the Plasmon and the cream; chop the white of egg finely, and add half of it with the ham and mushrooms. Stir over the fire until hot; season with pepper and a pinch of cayenne. If found too consistent add a little white sauce. Spread the mixture on some buttered toast cut into conveniently sized slices; sprinkle over with the remainder of chopped white of egg and chopped parsley. Serve either hot or cold. It is nicest hot.—“Food and Cookery,” August, 1903. 22. CREME DE YOLAILLE A LA PLASMON.— Ingredients: 4 teaspoonfuls Plasmon; 1 pint inarm water; | oz. gelatine ; breast of a cooked fowl; pepper atid salt. Method.—Remove the bones from the chicken, pound it well and rub through a fine sieve. Mix the Plasmon with the water, boil it 4 minutes, let the gelatine dissolve in this, and then add the chicken; stir all together smoothly and season to taste. Whip the mixture until nearly set. Pour into a mould and set aside to cool. Turn out the chicken cream carefully and serve. The mould may be decorated if desired. Half a gill of cream may be added to the mixture. 23. CHICKEN SOUFFLE.—Ingredients : 6 oz. minced chicken ; r| oz. flour ; \ pint Plasmon white stock ; 2 oz. butter ; yolks of 3 and whites of 6 eggs ; seasoning to taste. Method.— Melt butter in saucepan, mix flour carefully with some milk, then stir into the saucepan and add the stock and the chicken ; stir over the fire till thickened, then add the yolks of eggs well beaten; stir for 2 minutes, take up and cool. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add this to the mixture with pepper and salt to taste. Pour into a well-buttered souffle dish and bake above | hour. Send to table instantly, or it will spoil.