59 135 FRENCH WHITE SAUCE (B6chamel).—Ingre- dients : 2 Pints white Plasmon stock; i pint cream ; i table- spoonful Plasmon arrowroot; i small bunch herbs; i small bunch parsley ; 2 cloves; half a bay-leaf.; a few mushrooms or a little grated cheese; salt to flavour; a few peppercorns (not pepper, as that swould spoil the white colour of this sauce). Method.—Put the sweet herbs, parsley, bay-leaf, cloves, and peppercorns (tied loosely in a piece of muslin) to boil in the Plasmon stock until the stock has extracted the flavour of the herbs etc. : remove the muslin bag of herbs, and allow the stock’to boil till nearly half is reduced. Now mix the arrow- root smoothly with the cream, pour it to the reduced stock, simmer slowly for io minutes if the sauce be thick; if too thin, stir briskly till it thickens. Always make it thick, as it may be thinned by adding milk, cream, or Plasmon stock. Add grated cheese to this stock, if liked, and served over a cauliflower, turnips, etc. 136. BROWN SAUCE (Espagnole).—Ingredients : 2 slices lean ham; 1 lb. veal; 1 \ pint Plasmon stock; 2 or 3 sprigs parsley; half a bay-leaf; 2 tfr 3 sprigs savoury herbs; 6 small green onions; 3 eschalots; 2 cloves; 1 blade mace; 2 glasses sherry or madeira; 2 oz. butter; 2 oz. flour; 1 or 2 tablespoonf uls sauce ; salt to sauce. Method.—Fry the veal and ham (cut into neat pieces) a good brown, till a nicely coloured glaze is produced in the pan, then add the remainder of the stock and all the herbs, etc., and allow it to simmer for 1 hour. Strain and skim off every particle of fat; fry the flour a nice brown, add the strained stock, cook a few minutes, then add the salt, cayenne, and last of all the wine, and serve. 137. CREAM SAUCE (for Vegetables).—Ingredients : 1 oz. Plasmon arrowroot; 1 pint Plasmon stock; 4 pint cream, salt; any fresh vegetables—carrot, turnip, onion—and bunch sweet herbs. Methods.—Put all the vegetables, nicely cut, into 1 pint water, and cook gently till the flavour of vegetables is extracted ; strain the vegetables away from stock, and use equal parts of cream and vegetable stock or Plasmon stock; thicken with 1 i oz. arrowroot to each pint; season, and add a few drops of lemon juice, if liked. Previous to adding the stock blend