4S Method.—Pound the yolks, anchovy, and capers together; add cheese, cayenne, and Plasmon. Mix well, form into small marbles. Line Dariole moulds with aspic jelly ; decorate with white of egg and olives or cucumbers, fill with balls and jelly in layers. 100. Aspic Jelly.—Ingredients: i oz. gelatine; i bay-leaf; i pint milk; io peppercorns; i tablespoonful vinegar; | tea- spoonful salt; i tablespoonful Tarragona vinegar; rind of \ lemon cut thinly ; juice of \ lemon ; white and shell of i egg. Method.—Place all the ingredients in a saucepan, add the white of egg well beaten, and shell and whisk all in the saucepan ; bring to the boil, and boil 3 minutes slowly ; stand 5 minutes, and strain through towel and sieve. 101. MACARONI FRITTERS. —Ingredients : 4 oz. maca- roni; 2 oz. Plasmon; 2 oz. semolina ; 1 teaspoonful Marmite extract; 2 oz. butter. Seasoning: Thyme,parsley, onion, celery, salt, cayenne. Method.—Boil the macaroni until tender in two pints of water; strain, mix the semolina and Plasmon in the macaroni water (one pint), add the butter, Marmite, and the other sea- soiling, stir over heat till the semolina is smooth, then stir in the macaroni, and set to cool. Next shape into corks 01 cutlets, egg-and-breadcrumb them, and fry in oil, fat, or buttei. “Food and Cookery,” September, 1903. 102. PLASMON CHEESE SOUFFLES (Cold).—Ingre- dients : 3 teaspoonfuls Plasmon powder; 1 gill aspic (tawny jelly); -» oz. grated cheese (Gruyere and Parmesan) ; g teaspoon- ful mixed mustard; i£ gills cream; paprika or cayenne pepper. Method.—Dissolve the Plasmon in a little tepid water and stir into a light batter. Dissolve the aspic and add to it the grated cheese ; add the Plasmon and stir or whisk over the ice for a few minutes (till almost cold). Whip the cream and stir this in last with the mustard and seasoning. Fill up some ramikin cases and place them on the ice. . To improve the appearance of this dish, a thin layer of aspi should be run over the surface of the souffles and a sprig o chervil on top.—“Food and Cookery,” September, 1903.