22 15. FISH PIE.—Ingredients : i lb. cold fish; i| lb. cold potatoes; i oz. dripping or butter; 2 tablespoonfuls ~Plasmon stock. Method.—Mash the potatoes and pass through a sieve; melt the dripping or butter in a saucepan; add the mashed potatoes and Plasmon stock, and mix all well together. Shred up the remains of any cold fish ; season with anchovy sauce or salt and pepper; put into buttered pie dish, and cover with the mashed potatoes ; smooth over, and bake f hour. 16. PLASMON MOULD OF KEDGEREE (Breakfast Dish). —Ingredients: 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon; \ pint fish stock; 1 lb. cold boiled fish ; 1 teacupful Carolina rice; 1 oz. butter; 2 hard-boiled eggs ; salt, pepper, and cayenne ; \ pint aspic or savoury jelly, to mask the mould; parsley and hard- boiled egg for decoration. Method.—Rinse a mould with cold water and mask it with a little aspic or savoury jelly ; ornament it with sprigs of parsley and pieces of hard-boiled egg; cover the ornamentation with a little more aspic jelly, and allow it to set. Boil the rice as for a curry, and when done place it in a basin and stir into it the butter. Have ready the boiled fish, freed from bones and skin, and the hard-boiled eggs chopped in fairly large pieces; add these to the rice and mix well together with sufficient salt, pepper, and cayenne to season it nicely. Have ready J pint fish stock (tepid), made from the bones and skin of the fish, and pour it gradually upon 2 teaspoonfuls of Plasmon, stir- ring it well to keep it quite smoothj place this in a double saucepan and boil for 4 minutes, keeping it well stirred. Season it nicely with pepper'and salt, and when slightly cooled add to it the rice and fish, etc.; stir it well in, place the mix- ture in the prepared mould, and allow it to set; when quite firm dip the mould in hot water and turn out. Garnish with parsley and hard-boiled egg. 17. PLASMON IRISH STEW. —Ingredients : 1 lb. scrag of mutton ; 1 \ lb. potatoes ; 6 oz. onions; 1 \ gills Plasmon stock, No. 1, page 17/ salt and pepper to taste. Method.—Cut the meat into neat pieces, trim off some of the fat, put it in a saucepan with | pint of cold water, and