37 gelatine is dissolved, then strain into a basin. When nearly cold add the sugar, lemon juice, and egg; whisk all to a stiff froth ; pile in a glass dish and serve. This dish must be prepared only just before it is wanted, as, like souffle, it is apt to collapse. 67. PLASMON RASPBERRY CREAM.—Ingredients : | pint milk; 3 teaspoonfuls Plcismon ; | pint raspberry juice (made from fresh fruit or jam) ; 1 oz. gelatine ; about 3 oz. sugar ; 1 lemon rind; 1 tablespoonful brandy; a few drops of cochineal; about 5 pint clear jelly, to mask the mould; a little preserved fruit or fresh raspberries, for decoration ; 4 pint water tepid. Method.—Rinse a mould with cold water, mask it with a little clear jelly, and decorate with the preserved fruits; pour in a little more clear jelly, just sufficient to cover the fruit, and allow it to set. Make | pint of water just lukewarm, and pour it gradually upon 3 teaspoonfuls of Plasmon, keeping it well stirred. Place the saucepan over the fire and boil for 2 minutes, stirring all the time. When cooked pour the Plasmon stock into a basin and allow it to get cold. Tear up the gelatine and put it to soak for a few minutes in | pint of milk, then place it in a saucepan with the thinly peeled rind of lemon, and dissolve it very carefully; strain it into a basin and allow it to cool. If fresh fruit is not in season, take 2 large tablespoonfuls of raspberry jam and 1 dessertspoonful of red currant jelly and boil together with a 5 pint of water and 2 oz. of sugar until it becomes a thick syrup; strain it, and when a little cooled stir it gently into the gelatine and milk. Vv hen the Plasmon stock is quite cold, whisk it until it is thick, then stir it very gently into the other ingredients; add the brandy and enough cochineal to make it a good colour, pour it into the prepared mould and allow it to set. To turn out, immerse the mould in hot water. 68. GINGER CREAM.—Ingredients: Yolks of 3 eggs; 1 oz. sugar; 1 gill milk ; £ gill ginger syrup ; k pint cream ; 2 oz. ginger; | oz. gelatine ; 3 teaspoonfuls Plasmon. Method.—Dissolve Plasmon in the milk and boil for 2 minutes, then make into a custard with yolks; add sugar, and set aside to cool; whip the cream; dissolve gelatine in ginger syrup. Stir the dissolved gelatine into the custard,