i8 potatoes and onion, and fry a little without browning. Add the water and milk, boil up and skim. Stir in the ground rice, and cook gently till the vegetables are tender. Rub all through a fine sieve. Return to the stewpan, add the Plasmon stock, season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and re-heat. Serve with small croutons of fried bread. This soup may be made still richer by adding, a few minutes before serving, one yolk of egg mixed with half-a tablespoonful of cream. 4. LENTIL SOUP.—Ingredients : i pint lentils rr small onion; x stick of celery; 2 oz. hitter; 1 gill Plasmon stock (recipe No. 2,page 17) ; 2 quarts water; salt andpepper to taste. Method.—Wash the lentils, and soak them in cold water for 3 or 4 hours. Put the butter in a saucepan; add the lentils, onions (peeled and finely sliced), celery (cleaned and chopped small), stir over the fire for about 5 minutes, then add the water, boil up, skim, and cook gently till the lentils are soft. Pass all through a sieve ; add Plasmon, salt, and pepper; re-heat, and serve with bread cut in dice. Note.—Peas, haricots, beans, etc., can be used in the same way as lentils. 5. GAME SOUP. —Ingredients : The remains of one or two small birds (roast partridge or grouse) ; 5 onion ; 2 oz. dripping ; 2 oz. oatmeal; 1 quart Plasmon stock, No. 1, page 17 ; 6-8 preserved mushrooms ; salt and pepper, fried bread croutons. Method.—Remove the nicest pieces of meat from the bird, cut them into dice, and keep them aside for garnish. Chop up the carcase, etc., and put this in a stewpan with the dripping and the onion (peeled and sliced), fry for a few minutes, then add the oatmeal, and fry till it has acquired a light brown colour. Moisten gradually with the stock, and cook the whole for half an hour. Pass through a sieve, and re-heat 5 add the mushrooms, cut into dice, and the game fillets which were placed aside. Season with salt and pepper, and serve with croutons. Note.—This soup is greatly improved by adding a small wineglassful of sherry, port, or Marsala a few minutes before serving. , „ .. We are indebted to “ Food and Cookery (August September, 1903) for above recipes. and