25 25. CHICKEN SET IN PLASMON JELLY. - Ingredients : i pint Plasmon jelly in which k oz. gelatine has been dissolved; i to ij pints chopped chicken ; pepper, salt, and celery for flavouring ; cress for garnish. Method.—Take i pint Plasmon jelly and flavour with celery essence. Pour a small quantity into a mould and let it set. Sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a spoonful of chopped cold boiled or roast chicken; then add a little more cool jelly, and when set again sprinkle with pepper, salt, and chopped chicken. Continue this until the mould is full. When quite firm dip in hot water and turn out. Garnish with small cress. Ham, tongue, lobster, prawns, etc., may be used in the same manner. • 25. TURKISH PILAFF. (The old Maison d’Or recipe.)— Ingredients : x chicken ; \ pint Plasmon stock ; teacupful veal or chicken broth ; | lb. well-washed Caroline rice ; 3 tomatoes ; 3 tablespoonfuls cooked chopped onion; 1 tablespoonful veal suet; 2 oz. butter ; sprig of thyme ; 2 bay- leaves ; nutmeg; salt, pepper, and a pi?ich of cayerine. Method.—Divide the chicken into pieces and saute it very slowly in part of the butter, with the chopped onions, thyme, and bay-leaves. When it is of a deep yellow colour, add the rice, Plasmon stock, seasoning, herbs, and tomatoes (which should be par-boiled and cut in dice). The whole must now stew very gently till the broth is absorbed and the rice thoroughly cooked. This will take about an hour and a half from the time the rice is put in, and during this time the rest of the butter, the veal suet, and the teacupful of stock should be added to the Pilaff, bringing it to a state rieither dry nor moist. To serve, heap the rice upon a hot dish and place the chicken on top. 26. COLD MEAT SHAPE.—Ingredients : | lb. cold veal; \ lb. cooked ham ; 1 tablespoonful parsley ; 1 onion ; k pint Plasmon jelly, in which ^ oz. gelatine has been dissolved ; ~pepper and salt. Method.—Chop finely lb. cold veal, | lb. cooked ham, 1 tablespoonful parsley, and x well-cooked onion; season with pepper and salt. Stir into this \ pint cool (not set) Plasmon jelly. Pour into a mould, and when firm dip in hot water and turn out. Camden P.L