46 Plcismon ; sap green ; and small quantity of truffles, chilli, and pa rsely. Method.—Take two filleted whiting, or the remainder of any cold white fish, pound in a mortar until quite smooth, add i tablespoonful thick Bechamel sauce; add to these, very slowly, 4 tablespoonfuls Plasmon stock, just dissolved, and mix well together • season with cayenne and pinch of salt; stand in a cool place for \ hour to set, then place on a slab in portions about the size of a small egg; press flat, place in centre of each a piece of lobster butter (made as below) to form yolk, close each up into the shape of an egg, and stand on ice for 15 minutes. Make 1 pint of Plasmon jelly, to be used for outside coverings ; divide into three equal portions for the green, brown, and white. For green, add a few drops of sap green; the brown, add a little Beef Plasmon ; the white, 1 teaspoonful of cream ; then coat each egg over three times ; garnish the green with truffles; the brown and white with chopped parsley; add a little finely chopped chilli on the brown. Serve for breakfast dish. Lobster Butter.—Take half the contents of a small jar of lobster paste and mix with \ oz. fresh butter, and use as above. 93. ANCHOVY PATTIES. —Ingredients : \ oz. butter; 1 gill Plasmon stock; \ oz. flour; 1 hard-boiled egg; 1 tea- spoonful anchovy sauce; pepper and salt; a squeeze of lemon juice ; 5 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Method.—Melt the butter, add the flour, then the stock; allow to boil until the panada leaves the sides of the saucepan. Chop parsley and egg, and add together. 95. PLASMON HAM JELLY. —Ingredients : 5 lb. ham ; lpint Plasmon jelly ; 1 tablespoonful aspic jelly. Method.—Take ^ lb. ham, pounded and passed through a sieve ; mix with \ pint Plasmon jelly 1 tablespoonful aspic jelly ; set in any little fancy moulds. Serve for breakfast or luncheon. 95. CHEESE STRAWS.—Ingredients : 4 oz. Parmesan cheese; 4 oz. pastry flour; 1 oz. Plasmonpowder; pepper, salt cayenne of paprika, a little dry mustard; 2 oz. butter; e?iough milk to bind the dough.