3 EXCISIONAL SURGERY OP THE JOINTS, FOR DISEASE. (2.) Preservation of the Joint, with loss of its mobility, by An- chylosis. The Operative indications are :— (3.) Preservation of the Limb, and Life, by sacrifice of the Joint, with Anchylosis, here more properly named Synostosis—Excision. (4.) Preservation of the Life alone, by sacrifice of the Limb—Am- putation. The question of operative interference, it will thns be seen, can arise only when the joint-disease is ah-eady past the control of the fii'st indication of treatment—restoration of the mobility and functional use of the joint; and when it has become subject to the second indication —preservation by anchylosis. But this result is also the object of Excision. The true comparison, therefore, of joint-excision for disease, is with the probability of natural cure by anchylosis. Such com- parison should have reference, (1) to the joint, in respect to five essential particulars — the appropriate nature of the anchylosis or union, and the proper position of the limb for its functional use, the average duration of the periods of recovery, and the permanent character of that issue, with its average propoi'tionate frequency; (2) the liability to life, or the comparative mortality of the natural cure by anchylosis and that resulting from excision, must also be considered. It may seem strange to speak of the mortality of the natural ewe, for it might be said that, failing to obtain that issue in due time, the Surgeon would interfere by an operation, either of excision or amputa- tion, before death ensues. But the period of natural cure is very protracted, extending often to five years or more, and even to ten years. Cases of this duration respectively—not, it must be confessed of a very inviting and encouraging character—are recorded by Mr. T. Bryant and Mr. Hilton, as having occurred in their practice for the mechanical cure of knee-joint disease. But even a more important consideration is this—that such protracted recovery is attended with a proportionate reduction of constitutional vigour. Hence, with refer- ence to the question of mortality, operative interference may be too late, or intercurrent disease, consequent on delay, may carry off the patient; in either case, death ensues from the prolonged attempt to bring about a natural anchylosis. Statistical results, bearing on all these questions, and which shall be suflB.ciently accurate and comprehensive, are yet wanting to deter- mine the relative value of the two modes of cure—nature versus excision. Meanwhile, the fair and reasonable course to take surgically, in any advancing case of inflammatory joint-disease, is this : to try to induce natural anchylosis by absolute rest and other proper treatment • and failing to obtain that issue, timely excision offers itself as a sub- sequent resource, under the conditions which are most favourable for a successful result to this operative procedure. What are they ? V analysis of twenty carefully recorded typical cases, pub- lished m the "Medico-Chirurgical Transactions," 1870, I endeavoured to establish three propositions, representing the conditions of disease appropriate for excision of the joints in general; and certain supple- mentary propositions relating to particular joints. The experience ot twenty-five additional cases enables me to confirm and enlaro-e these conclusions; and,so far as they may stand the test of yet further experience, they may be taken SiS principles or rules for the guidance of