731 SPASM, AND NEURALGIA, OF THE BLADDER. Constitutional causes.—This great class of causes embraces—(1) morbid conditions of the blood, (2) tbose of the nervous system. Morbid conditions of the Blood result from perversions of the blood-forming processes ; (a) by mal-assimilation, primarily in the process of digestion, or secondarily in that of nutrition ; (6) by mal- excretion, through the kidneys, skin, or liver. Diseases of the organs severally concerned in these processes, gives rise to the consequent blood-conditions; and they, in their turn, are manifested by corre- sponding states of the urine and urinary deposits; the whole consti- tuting Urinary Pathology. In relation to irritability of the bladder, the organic conditions are remote causes; the urinary conditions are direct or immediate causes; while the blood-vascular system is the medium of communication. The chief of the causative urinary con- ditions are—lithic acid and lithates, oxalates, and phosphates. Morbid conditions of the Nervous System comprise diseases of the Nervous centres—brain,and spinal cord; and of the ganglionic centres of the sympathetic nervous system. Diseases of these central organs, and of organs generally, being severally connected through the nervous system, they may thence become causes of vesical irritability. It thus appears that diseases of organs distmit from the urinary bladder in the body are brought to bear upon this organ, through the agency of the nervous and vascular systems; just as local diseases generally operate, in like manner, upon it. Hence the wide-spread etiology of irritability of the bladder. Treatment.—Remedial measures must of course have reference to any cause or causes in operation. The treatment of local causes will be found in the various sections of this work, as pertaining to Diseases of the Rectum, etc.; and the treatment of constitutional causes, both fi'om a remedial and preventive point of view, is a large and special subject, which is considered, as relating to Urinary Diseases, and Deposits, at p. 646 of this volume. Spasm of the Bladdeb.—This affection is said to be an involun- tary, uncontrollable, and exceedingly painful contraction of the ■bladder, occurring from time to time ; the cause usually being in- flammation, stone, morbid growth, etc. Spasm, like irritability, is a symptom only, of which disease is the cause. I am disposed to regard both these symptoms as the same, but as differing in their degree of intensity; spasm representing excessive irritability, and an acutely painful urgency of micturition. The treatment of this affection is that of cystitis, and the removal of any foreign body from the bladder. Neuralgu.—Excessive sensibility of the neck of the bladder is an occasional affection; unaccompanied with any apparent disease dis- coverable during life or after death. This painful affection seems to arise more often from constitutional causes, resulting in a generally depressed state of the nervous system, and of the circulation; espe- cially from chronic rheumatism, and the anaemia consequent on mala- rious poisoning. But vesical neuralgia may also proceed from rectal constipation, the irritation of sexual excesses, habitual masturbation, or other local causes. A correct diagnosis is very important, lest perchance stone in the bladder or some disease of the organ be mis- taken for neuralgia ; or the worse error be committed, of attributing a merely neuralgic affection to some such organic cause.