SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 678 boldly curved and deeply grooved on its left side, -witli a good pit at the end of the groove, the size of the instrument being sufficient to fill the urethra, and the handle roughened; lithotomy-forceps, straight and curved ; scoops of different sizes ; a bladder-searcher ; and an injecting syringe, capable of holding about a pint, the nozzle fitting to a catheter. To these might be added a gum-elastic urine-draining tube, with rings at its outer end, whereby it can be fixed in the bladder with perineal tapes, after the operation. This instrument was invariably used by Listen, and subsequently by Sir W. Fevgusson, in the earlier portion of his career; it has also been employed by other excellent lithotomists, and, as a Listonian pupil, I naturally followed for a time the example of the great master. But the tube was, I believe, never used by Coulson, nor by other men of large experience, and it has now fallen into general disuse. Lateral Operation.—Pour assistants at least are required for the performance of this operation ; one to administer chloroform, one on each side of the patient to fix the perineum in the proper position as presently described, and a fourth to take charge of the staff. A fifth assistant might be convenient to hand instruments, unless they are placed within easy reach of the operator, when sitting down. The operation consists in cutting on a staff into the bladder—by a preliminary superficial, perineal incision to reach the instrument, followed by a deep or prostatic incision in the groove of the staff to enter the bladder; and the extraction of the stone. Thence the in- struments essentially requisite are simply three : a staff, a knife, and forceps. The patient is placed recumbent on the table, and chloroform administered. Then the bladder, having been previously emptied of nrine, should be injected with tepid water to the amount of about six ounces, in order to steady the bladder and expose the stone to the grasp of the foi-ceps. Sounding should now be performed, immediately before the operation is commenced—when the patient's bladder is in position. This may be done with an ordinary sound; but it is preferable to at once introduce the staff of sufficient size to occupy the urethra, and, using it as a sound, the stone must be distinctly felt and its situation ascertained. This is an imperative rule in regard to lithotomy. If the stone cannot be felt at the time of operating, the operation should be unhesitatingly postponed; if it can be felt, the operation is proceeded with. The patient is brought to the end of the table, so that his buttocks resting on the edge shall project a little beyond it; the legs are to be drawn up and the hands and ankles firmly bound together with the lithotomy bands, as thus,—either hand being placed on the outer side of the ankle and made to grasp the foot, both are securely joined in this position by a figure-of-eight application of the band. Or, the couplet leathern straps used by Sir W. Fergusson is a more simple and equally secure contrivance, then, the side assistants, taking each a foot in his hand on the inner aspect of the foot, and placing the patient's knee in his axilla, the limbs are drawn sufficiently apart to fully expose and throw out the perineum, at the same time observing that it inclines to neither one side nor the other, but is fixed per- pendicularly, or horizontally to the table, and maintained in this position throughout the operation. Unless these two assistants attend only to this, their simply mechanical but important duty,—that of