SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 14 fairly ontor the joint from side to side, when a touch or two „. the remains of the crucial and lateral ligaments completely lays it ; ^1^0 joint being at the same time forcibly flexed by the assistant, (iig. 483.) In young subjects, with fibrous anchylosis, care must be taken to sever any such union Ftg. 483. with the knife, lest by forcible flexion either epiphysis be- come detached—an accident, in regard to the tibial epi- physis, which happened in one of my own cases, and which my friend Mr. Bloxam, of St. Bartholomew's Hos- pital, has seen occur in two more. The joint having been laid open, I raise the flap of integument with my left hand, hooking my fingers under the patella, and, taking particular care not to detach the inte- gument from the femur, I draw the knife across just above the articular end of bone, so as to define it for excision. The saw, a small, broad-bladed one, is applied in this line, at a right angle to the bone, both vertically and trans- versely—observing to make allowance for the projecting direction of the articular end—upwards and forwards, in the flexed position of the limb, as held by the assistant. Unless this direction be observed, the section of bone will be oblique to the shaft. A few strokes with the saw brings its edge out just behind the condyles of the femur, and con-e- sponding to the posterior margin of the articular surface of the tibia ; when a slight jerk outwards of the blade detaches the Fig. 484. section, exposing a broad, flat, osseous surface to the end of the femur. The popliteal vessels and nerves are quite out of the way in making this section, the saw inclining forwards towards the articular surface of the tibia, and the ligamentum posticum intervening. To make the tibial section, I apply the saw similarly in front of the head of the tibia, on the margin of the line of incision about half an inch below the articular sui'face, no detachment of the integument being necessary for this purpose, and carry the blade, at a right angle to the bone, or parallel to the articular surface, so as to bring the edge out about half an inch below it posteriorly; when a jerk upwards with the blade will detach the articu- lar end without touching the ligamentum posticum, or endangering the popliteal vessels and nerves, and a broad, flat, osseous surface is exposed. Sometimes the " lion-forceps" (Pig. 484), is a useful instrument for the purpose of grasping firmly and holding steadily either articular section of the bone, when nearly detached by the