OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED INGUINAL HERNIA. 517 small Weeding arterial vessel liad better be secured by a pinch or twist with the forceps, so as not to obscure the dissection. Then, cautiously dividing the superficial fascia and other coverings, by using the scalpel with a lateral, scraping action, or even more cautiously, by dividing the textures successively on a director, the sac is soon reached below the external ring, or above that point,—on thus dividing the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique. Rarely, the cord lies in front of the sac; if so, it must be drawn to one side, out of the way. The sac .is recognized by its appearance : thin and translucent, and transmitting the colour of its hernial contents, in recent hernia; thick and opaque white, in old hernia. The seat of stricture is then sought for, as it may be found perhaps external to the sac; either at the external abdominal ring, the border of the internal oblique muscle, or, most frequently, at the internal abdo- minal ring,—in oblique hernia; or at the external ring, the margin of the conjoined tendon when ruptured, or, most frequently, at the mouth of the sac,—^in direct hernia. If situated at either of the more super- Fi6. 800. Fig- 801. divided external to the sac; and then sometimes the hernia becomes reducible. Otherwise, the seat of stricture being internal, as it usually is, or if the symptoms of strangulation have been persistent, the sac must be opened, and in the ordinary manner. By carefully nipping up a small portion with the forceps, and using the knife flatwise, a small button-hole incision is made ; this aperture is then enlarged by slitting the sac upwards and downwards, cautiously, on a broad hernia-director, and with a probe-pointed bistoury. If the director be elevated so as to stretch the sac over it, there will be scarcely any risk of wounding the bowel, which might otherwise overlap the instrument. But I generally use my finger as a director, in this and other operations for hernia. The seat of stricture is then sought for by gently examining the visceral contents of the sac. Situated commonly at the neck of the sac, the stricture must be divided with the liernia'-lmife, protected by the finger. (Fig. 801.) The direction in which it should be used has refer- ence to the course of the epigastric artery. In oblique hernia, this vessel lies immediately internal to the mouth of the sac; in direct