FEMOEAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. 527 havmff its unusual origin from the obdurator or from the femoral artery may, it is said, ascend under and on the inner side of the nng. The crural canal is the innermost space in the interior of the crural or fevioral sheath; the femoral vein, and external to it the femoral artery being likewise contained in this sheath. (Fig. 810.) The latter is formed by a prolongation from the fascia transversalis of the abdo- men, with a prolongation from the iliac fascia covering the iliacus Fig. 809.* ^^g- ^lO-t muscle. Both fasciae thus named, are only different parts of the same membrane, and are continuous along the line of Poupart's ligament ex- ternal to the iliac vessels; here, the one passing down in front, and the other behind the vessels, as they become femoral under Poupart's ligament, the two portions of fascia together form a loose funnel- shaped sheath, enclosing the vessels,—in addition to their common cellular investment. This sheath narrows as it continues downwards to about two inches below Poupart's ligament, where its distinctive appearance is lost in the common cellular investment. Its outer border is straight, and perforated by the genito-crural nerve ; its inner border is oblique, and appears in the saphenous opening, transmitting the saphena vein and lymphatics. Two very thin septa divide the sheath into three compartments; one septum passes between the femoral vessels, each of which is thus placed in its own compartment, while the other septum lies on the inner side of the veiu, and defines the com- partment known as the crural canal. This canal is about half an inch in length, reaching only from the base of Gimbemat's ligament to the * Koy. Coll. Surg. Miis., 1347. Eight side of a male pelvis ; showing the epi- gastric artery given off by the external iliac, a quarter of an incli above the crural arch; and about two-fifths of an inch from its origin, a branch, nearly a line in diameter, is given off, and descends, winding round the inner margin of the crural ring—as the obdurator courses in Fig. 808. After turning round the ring, this branch passes under it, goes towards the foramen ovale, and joins the tnink of the obdurator, which is of its ordinary size, and springs, as usual, from the internal iliac. The junction of the two vessels takes place about half an inch previous to their imited trunk leaving the pelvis. (Liston.) t Dissection of groin; showing the three compartments in femoral sheath. (John Wood.)