SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 262 cMan tube. But tliese mistakes may be easily avoided by attending to tbe directions given above, keeping the beak close against the floor of the inferior meatus, and taking care to feel the pressure of the curve on the back of the septum or the soft palate, before turning the beak outwards. In children the outward turn of the beak of tbe catheter is more limited in extent than in adults,in whom it is generally 90 to 128 degrees; but it varies in different individuals. In a new patient it is advisable to try the right side first, as it will usually be found easier to pass the catheter on that side, on account of a general slight inclination of the nasal septum to the left. If there is any obstruction to the passage of the catheter in the nostril corresponding to the ear in which you desire to pass it, the Eustachian tube may, by using a catheter with, a longer curve, l^e reached from the opposite nostril; or the catheter may be passed from the mouth. Dr. Weber Liel, of Berlin, has introduced a small elastic catheter, for securing the direct passage of injections into, and removing accumula- lations from, the cavity of the tympanum. The ordinary silver catheter being used as a director, the small elastic one is passed through it; and having thus, at its exit from the silver catheter, obtained a position in the tube, it is passed on with care through the tube and into the cavity of the tympanum. The injections passed through the catheter into the middle ear consist of preparations of potass, ammonia, iodine, mercury, silver, zinc, atropine, chloral, etc., in solution. Care must be taken that the fluid injected is always lukewarm. The following solutions are most generally used, but are not recom- mended, as much damage is caiTsed frequently by the direct injection of fluids into the cavity:—Sulphate of zinc (in strength varying from one to ten grains), muriate of ammonia (five to twenty grains), iodide of potassium (ten to sixty grains), iodine (one to five gi-ains), chlorate of soda (five grains to the ounce of water). The injections passing directly on to the tympanum, through the elastic catheter, should be much ■weaker. Before using the solutions the Eustachian tube should be cleansed of mucus or any other removable obstruction which may be present. They should be used every second or third day for from three to eight -weeks, after which an interval of a month or more is advisable before renewing their application. Should the patient object to the nse of the catheter, medicated vapours may be applied to the cavity, by means of Valsalva's method, ■which is as follows :—From ten to thirty drops of equal parts of iodine and acetic ether being mixed in a pint of hot water, the patient closes the nostrils with the fingers and inhales a mouthful of the steam, and then, -with the mouth and nostrils firmly closed, makes a. forcible expi- ration. The steam, being thus forced against the walls of the naso- pharyngeal space, rushes up the Eustachian tubes into the cavities of the tympana, causing a sensation of fulness and warmth. This process should be repeated several times at one sitting, the patient performing the act of swallowing between each inhalation, for the purpose of emptying the cavities, before again filling them with steam. Should the Eustachian tubes be closed or rendered impervious by swellmg of the mucous membrane, this method yvill probably not succeed, inAvhich