SPEOIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 222 reaction takes place, and the operation may be repeated in the course of ten days or a fortnight. Generally, however, the lens swells and proiects into the anterior chamber, and more or less pain is experienced in the eye, which becomes increased in tension and presents other symptoms ot iritis and iridocyclitis. If this occur, an attempt should be made on the fourth or fifth day, or later, to remove the greater part of the swollen and softened lens. This may be accomplished by passing a bent needle or a keratome through the cornea (Pig. 628), but not too close to the margin, to avoid Fig. 629.* the chances of prolapse of the iris into the lens; one or other of the various forms of scoop may then be made to enter through the wound, and, with a slight lever-liko movement, a large portion, if not all, of the cataract may be extracted. (Fig. 629.) In these proceedings as little injury as possible should be inflicted on the eye, and the iris should in no case be bruised or abraded. Instead of introducing a scoop, the second step of the operation, originally suggested by Laugier (1847) as the method per aspiration, consists in removing the softened lens by suction. The apparatus required for this purpose is shown in the accompanying diagi-am. (Fig. 630.) It consists of a perforated curette or cannula of silver (different views of which are shown at aa), the extremity being smoothly rounded Pig. 630.t a and the opening being at a short distance from the extremity. To this is attached a glass tube, b, to enable the operator to see what quantity of lens-substance he is extracting; a short piece of india-rubber, c, suc- ceeds, ending in a glass mouthpiece. In using it, an opening is made in the cornea with a bent needle, small, yet sufficiently large to permit the entrance of the nozzle. A, without force. The operator then sucks at the mouthpiece gently, and the lens substance will be seen to rise in the tube b. The principal objections to the instrument are that it is extremely difficult to keep the nozzle and tube near the extremity clean, and that the opening is apt to become choked with a hard fragment of lens ; whilst, if the suction power be increased, it is sometimes taken up * Second step in the operation for solution. The wound made in the cornea by tlie keratome is shown, with the scoop about to be introduced for the purpose of removing the softened lens. t Apparatus required for removal of cataract by snetion.