170 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Compression of the BRxm.-Symptoms.-The symptoms of this conditxon, when fully established, are-insensibility,C coma, as of a profound sleep; the breathing is laborious, slow, and prolonged accompanied with a stertorous or snoring noise, owing apparently to paralysis of the velum palati, and a puffing blowing of the lips- this sound dying away now and then, it may be succeeded by a so'rt of catch m the throat, with a start, and relapse into deep snoring • the pupils are dilated, and insensible to light, and the pulse is" slow'and lull, ihe faeces may pass involuntarily, and the urine be retained or clribble away. Hemiplegia often occurs, and on the side opposite to tlie seat of compression. This general state is sometimes varied by attacks of dehrium or convulsions. The temperature is maintained, or the fall registered is less than in concussion. ' Diagnosis.—The distinction between cerebral compression and con- cussion has been generally determined—mainly by the three symptoms of the breathing, the state of the pupils, and the pulse, to which may be added the relative temperature, as already described with reference to each of these conditions of the brain. In typical or well-marked cases of either condition, it will be possible thus to decide the question of their diagnosis. Much stress has, therefore, been laid on the afore- said distinctive characters. But in intervening states of cerebral injury, the diagnosis is equivocal. Mr. Hewett affirms that " there is no one symptom, or combination of symptoms, which will enable us to determine positively between concussion and the slighter cases of compression." The coma arising from any cause of cerebral compres- sion may be mistaken for the more or less complete insensibility of drunkenness—when the person is said to be " dead drunk," or " stupidly drunk;" an error of diagnosis not so very unfrequent in the casualty- room of Hospitals, and in surgical examination at police-stations. The condition in question may be distinguished partly by the absence of any injury to the head, unless the person have fallen down or been struck on the head, when drunk, as sometimes happens; but the Surgeon should also judge by the smell of the breath, or by any suspi- cion that the person has been drinking. In the course of a few hours, intoxication will pass off, thus more clearly declaring the nature of the case. A-poplexy is another condition which might mislead the Surgeon. But the turgid lividity of the face, and absence of any injury to the bead, unless accidental, will be sufficiently distinctive; altho uofh the former appearance be associated with a dilated state of the pupils, stertorous breathing, and laborious pulse, as the symptoms of cerebral compression. In either of the cases referred to, drunkenness or apoplexy, the accidental concomitant of head-injury should lead to further examination ; for no injury short of fracture with depression can cause any immediate symptoms of compression. Then, indeed, the diagnosis will be impossible; both the co-existing conditions being productive of coma. The insensibility which arises from poisoning by opium may be yet another occasion of some doubt as to the nature of the case. But a very distinctive symptom is the contracted, instead of the dilated, state of the pupils; and inquiry should be made respecting the probability of attempted suicide. Here, also, the use of the stomach-pump will both determine the question of diagnosis, and be a preferable mode of treatment to the administration of an emetic ; the bare possibility of apojolexy being the cause of compression