BEMOVAL OF THE EYEBALL. 239 impossible, at an early period; and still more so, its nature. All give rise to gradual displacement and protrusion of the eyeball. The anterior I portion of an intra-orbital growth can sometimes be examined with the • tip of the finger between the orbit and the globe, in this situation. An encephaloid cancer-growth, or an hydatid cyst, presents a feeling of 1 elasticity and fluctuation, and by a fine puncture sometimes the true • nature of the mass is discovered. Exostosis appears as a tumour of bony resistance. Griioma may grow from the retina, or from the peri- : neurium of the cerebral nerves ; the tumour advances inwards into tbe vitreous humour, or, separating the retina from the choroid, at length protrudes forwards from the ball of the eye. It is of slow growth, but • may attain to a considerable size, as a tumour of soft or of a hard con- ^ sistence. Myxoma, springing from the neuroglia or delicate connective . tissue of the nerves, presents a tumour in the vitreous humour, of \ variable size, but always of soft, mucous consistence. An intva-ocular . growth will probably be shown by the ophthalmoscope. At a subse- quent period of growth, the nature of the tumour may be partly deter- r mined by its progress. Encephaloid tumour, and the melanotic variety \ in particular, progresses most rapidly ; exostosis, most slowly. "When • the eye has burst, the kind of tumour may be declared; as, for example, a fungoid melanotic tumour. Treatment.—No medicinal treatment has any more controlling in- : fluence over an orbital or ocular tumour, than in respect to the same k kind of growth situated elsewhere. The operation of removing a morbid growth from the orbit implies a previous exact diagnosis, as to whether it involves the eyeball, and is I limited to the orbit or extends into it from the cranium. Such diao-- :i nosis will mostly be impossible. In performing the operation of extir- ; pation, any injury to the globe or optic nerve must be most carefully i avoided; another difficulty, if not impossibility. Ebmoval of the Eyeball.—Parim^ removal.—Non-malignant disease, i and occasiona,lly destruction of the eye, by or in consequence of injury' i are the conditions y^hich may justify excision of the anterior portion only of the organ, with a view to afterwards introducing an artificial eye. No particular directions are requisite for the performance of this operation. The removal of a staphylomatous projection of the cornea or sclerotic, by means of a cataract-knife, sufficiently illustrates the opera- tive proceeding. The eye collapses, the sclerotic case left shrinks into '■ ^ iiodule, forming the base of support, and when tenderness has ceased an artificial scale eye is introduced between the lids. ' Extirpation of the EyebaU.—Removal of the whole eye should never" " be resorted to while any sight remains in the organ; excepting for malio-- nant disease, or when the irritability of a partially disorganized e?e threatens to affect the sight of the other eye, sympathetically i he operation is best performed as follows :—The patient reclining ■and under the influence of chloroform, an incision is made from the outer commissure of the lids backwards, to a sufficient extent just to tZoinrJ''''T lids are then held well apart by iuckl f fi. ' °^ assistant. By passing the knife from the a oSw L mner commissure, above and below the globe, carefully Sed^^ /.!fP°'"V''^r^u"* either lid, the conjunctiva is entirely srrrounZ'\!^' T^^' attachment of the levator palpebrse and otheV surrounding muscles. Then, seizing the globe with hooked forceps