SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 466 tlie measures to be adopted consist in topical blood-letting by means of leeches scattered over the surface of the abdomen, and warm fomen- tations ; coupled with the administration of calomel and opium, in pill, every four or six hours, in order to prevent effusion beyond tliat requisite for adhesive reparation, and to promote absorption. Neither local depletion nor warm epithems proved efficacious in the numerous cases of traumatic peritonitis during the American "War of the Rebellion ; but the continued influence of ice over the entire abdomen was often used to subdue the peritoneal inflammation. The action of mercury in relation to inflammatory effusion may be open to question; but in traumatic peritonitis, the early administration of opium is specially advantageous, by controlling the peristaltic movement of the intes- tines. The hypodermic injection of morphia is a valuable resource when opium would be rejected by the stomach; but opiate suppositories have a moi'e direct effect upon the intestine. Purgatives during the inflammatory stage are useless or injurious, the constipation depend- ing on the paralyzing influence of peritoneal inflammation over the peristaltic action of the bowels. In the case of wound of the bowel, this state of quiescence is necessary for re2oaration, and Nature's provision for that purpose. Beef-tea and other fluid food should be the only form of nourishment given during this period. Iced soda- water or barley-water seems to allay sickness, which may also be combated by hydrocyanic acid and potash, in draught, taken occasion- ally. At the end of about a week any feculent accumulation may be removed as a source of irritation, by the gentle action of an olea- ginous enema. In asthenic peritonitis, depletion should be moderated, and the vital power must be soon sustained by wine, brandy and egg mixture, or other stimulants, and light nom"ishing food. Chronic peritonitis will require the continued influence of mercury, with blistering of the abdomen and mercurial ointment dressing, to remove the lingering effusion. Compression, by means of an abdominal support, may also promote absorption ; although I have had no ex- perience of the gypsum-bandage, which Neudoerfer recommends, and, I believe, employs in the acute stage, for the suppression of inflam- mation. CHAPTER LVI. HERNIA. Hernia is a generic term, signifying the protrusion of any organ from its natural cavity; such protrusion occurring through a natural or accidental aperture. Thus we recognize Hernia of the brain, through an opening in the skull; of the lung, through an opening in the thoracic parietes; of a portion of intestine, omentum, or other abdominal organ, through an opening in the abdominal wall. The protruded part is covered by the integuments, which overlie the aper- ture and course of the protrusion; and this structural condition may be said to distinguish Hernia from Prolapsus, which is simply an