553 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. it might be opened as low down as possible, and the aperture stitched to the integument of the abdominal wound, with the hope of estab- lishing an artificial anus. Otherwise, under ordinary circumstances, the bowels should be returned, and the abdominal incision closed by tlie interrupted wire-suture, supported by a compress and bandage. After-treatment must be conducted on the general principles relating to abdominal wound with peritonitis. Obstruction of the large intestine may be treated by operation through the abdominal wall, in either iliac region, or in either lumbar region The design of any such operative procedure is, however, not to overcome the obstruction, commonly a stricture in some portion of the large intestine; but to relieve constipation by forming an artificial anus. Of course, therefore, the bowel must be opened, and above the seat of stricture. Hence, stricture of the rectum or of the sigmoid flexure of the colon will necessitate an opening of the descending colon; or in the former case, the sigmoid flexure might be opened; and stric- ture of the descending or of the transverse colon will require a trans- ference of the operation to the ascending colon, or to the ccecum. These four sites of operation have, however, different advantages ; not as to_ their respective eligibility for access to the bowel operated on, but with regard to not implicating the peritoneum. In both the operations pertaining to the sigmoid flexure and the ceecum, an opening is made in the iliac region, left or right, whereby in either case the peritoneum must be wounded; whereas, in both the opera- tions on the colon, or by colotomy as it is termed, the bowel is reached in the lumbar region, left or right, and the peritoneum can be avoided. The iliac operation was first suggested by Littre in 1710, who recommended that the sigmoid flexure of the colon might be opened from the left iliac region; but Pillore, a Surgeon of Eouen, first per- formed the corresponding operation in 1776, by opening the csecum from the right iliac region. Both these were cases of stricture of the rectum, li may here be added that the transverse colon has been opened, m one case, for stricture of the rectum; an operation per- formed by Fine of Geneva, in 1797. The lumbar operation was proposed by Callisen, in 1796; and he performed it on the descending colon, in the left lumbar region; the subject being the dead body of a child. In seeking the intestine, he accidentally missed the cellular interval uncovered by peritoneum, and wounded this membrane. The operation was thenceforward deemed impracticable, and not attempted on the living body. Amussat revived it m 1839, and extended this procedure to the ascending colon in the right lumbar region ; modifying also the line of incision from a vertical direction, which CaUisen had recommended, to a transverse one. Cer- tain advantages are gained by this incision; it makes the operation easier and more certain, and avoids the danger of dividing the lumbar vessels and nerves ; it facilitates finding and opening the intestine between the duplicature of peritoneum, without wounding the serous membrane ; and it enables the operator to establish the artificial anus more anteriorily. Colotmny or Arnussat's Ojoeration.-The guide to the incision is the interval between the crest of the ilium—its middle third—and the last