802 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. commences usually on the glans, as a firm, warty elevation, having a broad base. At first painless and covered with a cuticular crust, this being shed or rubbed off, the growth becomes painful, bleeds a little, and soon ulcerates, discharging a thin, foetid sanguineous fluid. It spreads, destroying the glans, opening the urethra, and involving the prepuce. The inguinal glands become affected, but not distant organs. Occasionally, the prepuce is the seat of this form of cancer. Phimosis here also seems to be a predisposing condition; and the prepuce may be ulcerated through, disclosing the cancerous growth. Diagnosis.—In the early stage of cancer, there may be some diffi- culty in distinguishing between a cancerous wart and a common wart, or chancre us induration which has not ulcerated or has cicatrized. But the ulcerative tendency of cancer, and the character of the dis- charge, wdth the slow, steady progress of the disease, are diagnostic. The somewhat advanced period of life, and the negative effect of treatment, will also corroborate the nature of the disease. Treatment.—The only treatment is extirpation; either by circum- cision, or by amputation of the organ. Circumcision should be selected only when the disease is strictly limited to the prepuce; a comparatively rare condition, whether as regards the origin of cancer of the penis, or the stage when this affection usually comes under surgical treatment. Amputation of the Penis.—This is a very simple operation, yet cer- tain particulars must be observed to insure its satisfactory performance. Amputation may be effected by the knife, or the ecraseur ; the former instrument being generally preferable. The operation should always be performed near the root of the penis, in order to completely remove the disease. An assistant holds that part of the organ firmly between the thumb and finger, to prevent the liability of its slipping back under the pubes, and to restrain hgemorrhage; then the Surgeon, laying hold of the penis, draws the integument slightly forward, and severs the body of the organ near its root by one sweep of the knife from above down- wards. If too much integument be dravra over the stump, it may overlay the urethral orifice; if too little, an inconvenient puckering results. Bleeding vessels are then to be secured ; usually, five arteries require ligature,—the two dorsal arteries, the artery of the corpus cavernosum on each side, and one in the septum. The oozing surface of the corpora cavernosa will spontaneously cease to bleed, aided by sponging with cold water; or such haemorrhage may be restrained by a compress, secured by a T bandage. A tendency to retraction of the stump under the pubic arch must not be overlooked, and a catheter should then be kept in the bladder to insure a free escape of the urine. Granulation and cicatrization close the wound, the skin becoming puckered around the urethral orifice. During and after this process of healing, this orifice has a tendency to contract, resulting in stricture of a most troublesome or even fatal character. To prevent any such result, a catheter should be introduced and kept in the bladder; the silver female catheter, or a gum-elastic one, may be used now that the urethral passage is so much shortened. When an instrument is not easily borne, Mr. Teale's little addition to the operation will be con- venient ; a catheter is introduced, and the urethra and adjoining skin are slit up with a bistoury to the extent of about two-thirds of an inch. A single suture is then placed on each side of the slit, uniting