702 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. resulting in a thickened state of the bladder, will also render the operation difficult. In order to perform supra-pubic lithotomy, the bladder must be made to rise above the pubes; and this may be accomplished either by full distension of the bladder with water, or by means of a catheter or other instrument introduced through the urethra into the bladder, so that its point shall project above the pubes. Both means are adopted to insure a presenting part or point of the bladder in that situation. The operation consists in making a vertical incision in the middle line, above the pubes, carried upwards to about three inches in length; the linea alba is exposed, and the incision carried through the muscular wall of the abdomen and fascia transversalis; the projecting part of the bladder, uncovered by peritoneum, is sought just above the sym- physis, and opened on the point of the instrument within its cavity; this incision being prolonged downwards towards the neck of the bladder with - a probe-pointed bistoury, sufficiently to admit the finger. The forceps is then passed in, and the stone extracted. Accidental fracture of the calculus will present a difficulty of more consequence than when it occurs in the lateral operation; for the bladder cannot readily be washed out, and, a fragment remaining, the recurrence of stone is inevitable. Various instruments have iDeen devised wherewith to puncture the bladder from within, when reached by the incision. Thus, the sonde-a-darde is a puncturing instrument, combining a trocar concealed in a catheter ; and this is used by Civiale. The performance of this operation is much more difficult than it would appear to be. The after-treatment is simple; urinary infiltration is prevented by placing the patient on his back, and it may perhaps be advisable to introdiice a gum-elastic catheter into the bladdei', leaving it there for a few days until union of the wound has taken place. Formerly, it was thought necessary to close the bladder by sutures, and even to make a counter-opening through the perineum into the membranous urethra or the neck of the bladder, with a view of securing a free drain for the urine. These complications are now entirely discarded, whenever the operation is occasionally resorted to. The results of this operation are, however, singularly fatal. Pro- fessor Humphry, of Cambridge, has shown that in 104 cases, 31 were fatal, mostly in consequence of peritonitis and urinary infiltration; a mortality of 1 in 3'08. He had himself one successful case, and other Surgeons, especially M. Souberbielle, Sir Everard Howe, Carpue, Kirby of Dublin, and Dr. Carpenter of Pennsylvania, have also had occasionally a successful result. But it should be remembered that the operation is had recourse to when the stone is of unusually large size, being coupled with a narrow pubic arch; and, the lateral operation inapplicable, the results of the two methods cannot fairly be compared. LiTHOTRiTT.—The operation of breaking down the stone in the bladder, so as to allow of its extraction, or discharge, by fragments through the urethra, was early devised and attempted, in some way, as a substitute for the cutting operation of lithotomy. This procedure was noticed by Hippocrates amongst the Greeks ; by Albucasis, of the Arabian school; by Franco, Guido de Cauliaco, Hildanus, Haller, and other authors down to the end of the last century. In 1813, Grui- thuisen, a Bavarian Surgeon, published two memoirs on the subject.