66 BPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND BURGEIIY. Fig. 514. tendon of the subscapularis, attached to monly said to have been originated by Mr. Charles White, of Man Chester, in April, 1768. He had previously removed the head of the humerus on the dead subject; but the operation in question consisted in removing the upper part of the humerus for necrosis, leaving the head of the bone in the glenoid cavity. Similar excisions were per- formed by Vigaroux, of Montpellier, in 1767, and perhaps by David, of Rouen. Ridewald, in April, 1770, ap^jears to have first removed the head of the humerus, for arthritic disease, the patient being a man, fifty years old, in a wretched condition of health; secondary amputa- tion was resorted to for suppuration and haemorrhage, and death ensued. This operation was followed in the next year, 1771, by another case; Mr. James Bent, of Newcastle, excised the head of the humerus for caries, of three years' standing, and with entire success. In the same year, the operation was performed by Leutin; then, in 1778, by Mr. Daniel Orred, of Chester; and in 1786, by the elder Moreau,—a complete excision of the head of the humerus, the glenoid cavity, and a portion of the acromion; the result being successful. Mr. Syme revived the operation in 1826. An elliptical incision, U, exposes the joint most thoroughly for examination, and facilitates the application of instruments; but, by severing the deltoid muscle, at the turn of the incision, the voluntary abduction of the arm, subsequently, is much impaired. A single longi- tudinal incision is nearly as effectual, and avoids the after-disadvan- tage referred to; or a "] or a T incision may be preferable; and, in truth, the shape of the flap must be guided by the state of the integu- ment with regard to sinuses or otherwise. Supposing an elliptical to be selected:—A bistoury is entered at the posterior border of the acromion, and carried down with a sweep across the insertion of the deltoid, upwards to the inner border of the coracoid process. The flap, embracing the deltoid muscle, is raised by a few touches with the knife ; then, the external rotator tendons are divided, by running the blade across the great tuberosity of the humerus; and, by slight adduction and rotation of the arm outwards, the the small tuberosity, is touched with the knife, and thus the head of the humerus is turned out of the glenoid cavity,—the capsular ligament having disappeared. Or, the single hnear incision may be made on the inner aspect of the joint, between the acromion and coracoid pro- cesses of the scapula, where the head of the humerus is most prominent. The head of the bone is then exposed, and presented in like manner; the soft parts being well retracted by an assistant with a curved retractor on either side, while just freeing the muscular attachments. (Fig. 614.) Then, protecting the soft parts and long tendon of the biceps with a spatula on the inner aspect of the bone, the saw is applied below the diseased portion. The head, neck, and proximate part of the shaft may be thus removed : avoiding. I