SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEHY. 724 tion of the mucous membrane ensues, it is expelled with sweatiiifr agony. The semen also may be emitted, and the contents of the bowel evacuated, or the bowel itself protruded, during the writhing eifort to strain off the last few drops of urine. Profuse, gushing hcemorrhafjc, or bloody urine and of an alkaline, foetid, purulent character; with perhaps the appeai'ance of cancer-cells in the urine ; are tolerably dis- tinctive of cancer-growth in the bladder. Examination with the finger, per rectum, may discover a tumour in, or involving, the base of the bladder. But the presence of a solid tumour in the situation of this organ at the lower part of the abdomen, is characteristic of cancer; excepting when a non-malignant growth has attained to such size as to occupy the bladder,—a rare event. Then the diagnosis will turn on the general severity of the bladder-symptoms, aided, perhaps, by the appearance of the cancerous structural elements in the urine. But it may be difficult to distinguish cancer-cells from rudimentary forms of vesical epithelium, unless a mass of infiltrated papilla be discharged. Age and sex help to guide the diagnosis. Thus, scirrhus most fre- quently occurs in men, and between forty-five and sixty years of age. Constitutional symptoms, with glandular enlargements in the iliac regions, may supervene in an advanced stage of the disease; but the peculiar cancerous cachexia is even then not well mai'ked. The patient's general health and aspect is that of a person worn down simply from pain, sleeplessness, and loss of blood. Calculus sometimes coexists with cancer, especially encephaloid; and the presence of a stone may be detected by sounding, which at the same time discovers a tumour; if the mass bleeds readily in gently exploring with the instrument, it will probably be encephaloid. Treatment.—Palliative measures only have any effect; comprising opiates, administered internally and sometimes by injection, tonics, and supporting diet. The disease is invariably fatal. TuBERCr.E of the bladder is a very rai'e affection; probably never occurring unassociated with tubercular deposit in other parts of the body, and of the urinary system especially; the kidneys and prostate, in particular, being similarly affected. In women, it has been known to have followed primary disease in the uterus. The aymiotoms are not peculiar, and the diagnosis is chiefly negative. Great pain, and extreme irritability of the bladder; with the absence of obstruction to micturition, and of a calculus or other foreign body, of heemorrhage in any quantity, and of any perceptible tumour; to- gether with the presence of tuberculosis, and progressive emaciation. These circumstances, taken in conjunction with the patient's age, usually early or middle adult life, will indicate the nature of this disease. The interior of the bladder presents different appearances, accord- ing to the stage of the disease. Tubercular deposit may be found, in the form of small granulations, seated in the mucous coat of the bladder, and more often at the base or neck of the organ. These points may have coalesced, but they continue in a chronic state for a long period. In an advanced stage, the tubercular matter softens, and the mucous membrane gives way, forming an ulcer of variable size, but having a ragged undermined margin, infiltrated with deposit. Tuber- cular matter is now discharged in the urine, which can be recognized with the eye, or detected with the aid of the microscope; thus at