82 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 522.* the humerus; extending down the shaft even into thej (4.) Guy's Hospital; St. Bartliolomew's Hospital; St. Thomas's Hospital; King's College Hospital; Charing Cross Hospital; St. Mary's Hospital; West- minster Hospital; lloyal Free Hospital; Great Northern Hospital; Itoyal Albert Hospital, Devonport; Eoyal Sea-Bathing Infirmary, Margate; Chalmers' Hospital, Edinburgh; period, 1870. No oases. In each of those Hospitals, ihe period is ihat of five years; and the retuniy were made to mo by those Surgeons whose names are severally aflixed iu the pre vious tables. Excision of the Shoulder-joint, for Injury.—The contingencies of •warfare render this operation far more common in Military than in Civil practice. It would appear from the French oflBcial report in the Crimea, that in open engagements the superior extremity was wounded once in every 4-3, and in siege operations once in every 6-2, of all woxmds reported. Of forty-seven gunshot wounds of the upper] extremity, twenty-eight were of the shoulder and arm. The advanced' position of the soldier's shoulder, in the act of firing, exposes that part more particularly to bullet-wounds; while it also shares the liability of] other parts to grape-shot, fragments of shell, and cannon-balls. M. Boucher, of Lille, seems to have first performed the operation of I shoulder-joint excision, after the battle of Fontenoy, in May, 1745.1 Subsequently complete excisions were practised successfully by Percy, Sabatier, Larrey, Lauer, Ingalls of Boston, Mann, Guthrie, Baudens, Hancock, and other Surgeons. Gonditioyis of Injury affropriate for Excision.—(1.) Compound and comminuted fracture of the head and neck of the humerus. (2.) Compound dislocation. (3.) Gunshot wound, involving the head or neck otj medullary canal. Such fissures may be left, and recovery! ensue; or, the shaft to the extent of four or five inches! has been removed, with the head, and a successful resultj obtained. (Fig. 522.) Complications, by fracture of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, through the neck, or extending into the body, or involving the coracoid and acromion processes,! may require the removal of such additional fragments, or they may be left to exfoliate ; the result proving suc- cessful, although recovery be protracted. Thus, Larrey's case was remarkable for the extent of bone excised,— head of the humerus, acromion, and proximate end of the clavicle; yet the patient recovered, and with con- siderable use of the arm. Partial excision of the head of the humerus was practised in the Crimea. The after-mobility was more restricted than as the result of completje excision. A bullet imbedded in the head of the humerus may not unfre- quently be extracted, without excision. The state of the integuments, and of injury to the axillary vessels and nerves, will regulate the propriety of excision. The operation is performed as for disease, modified only by tlie state of the integuments. The shape of the incision will be chiefly directed by the situation of the wound or wounds m the skin. A * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., A. 67'. (\\. MacCormac.)