216 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. capsule. Thus, then, an opaque white disk occupies the area of the adherent pupil; but this disk is situated much further back than the position of a full-sized lens. Sometimes, other appearances are presented Dislocation of the Lens into the Anterior Oh amber.—ThiB injury may be conveniently noticed here. It is produced by external violence, such as a blow upon the eye, or a violent fall. Disease may have predisposed to it by weakening the suspensory ligament of the lens. This body may itself have become opaque, when its appearance in the anterior chamber will at once be recognized. In a transparent state, the dislo- cated lens is remarkable; its margin exhibits the appearance of a ring of golden light. Pain and inflammation soon supervene. Prompt removal of the lens, through a suitable opening in the cornea, is the only treatment for saving the eye. Treatment of Cataract.—No mode of cure, otherwise than by operation, is at present known; nor has any approach to a non-opera- tive cure been discovered. Operations.—(1.) Extraction of the lens, by which the opaque lens is removed entire from the eye, through a suitable wound in the cornea. (2.) Displacement of the lens; either by depression down- wards, or reclination backwards, downwards, and a little outwards. Couching," as this operation has been termed, displaces the lens from its natural position into an attitude so that, although remaining within the eye, it allows the rays of light to pass unimpeded through the pupil to the retina. (3.) By Solution or Absorption. This operation consists, not in the " division " and breaking-up of the whole lens (a proceeding which still finds favour on the Continent, and was formerly practised in this country), but in the laceration of the capsule so as to expose the tissue of the lens to the macerating influence of the aqueous humour, whereby it undergoes complete absorption—a principle of operation established by Saunders, Tp-rell, and other English Surgeons. Extraction.—(1.) By Flap-Operation.—The instruments required are these:—A knife having a triangular blade ; the back straight and blunt, the point sharp, the edge slanting obliquely and the blade increasing in thickness and breadth towards the handle—Beer's knife. A blade thus shaped occupies the incision in transfixing the cornea, and a semilunar-shaped incision can be made by simply an onward movement with the knife, A curette, or an instrument with a curved needle at one end and a small spoon at the other. The guarded curette devised by Mr. Walton, is a safer form of this instrument. A sharp hook may also be requisite. The directions to be remembered in performing the operation are as follow:—To make a crescentic incision in the cornea, through its upper half, and of suificient size to afford an easy exit to the lens; to make the incision at such a distance fi"om the sclerotic as to insure both edges of the wound being wholly of corneal tissue; to lacerate the anterior capsule freely, so as to allow of the lens readily slipping through the rent when pressure is made on the globe; lastly, to apply this pressure gently, in such manner that the lens shall turn slowly on its transverse axis, and thus present its upper margin first at the pupil and then at the corneal wound. These directions are best fulfilled by the following mode of per- forming the operation of Extraction :—The patient lying on his back with the head supported, and in a good light, the Surgeon stands