SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 546 of small size, lying also under the cushion of the glutaeus muscle, the tumour will probably not be discovered during life. On the other hand, when the tumour appears from under the muscle, it might be mistaken for a perineal hernia which has enlarged so as to occupy the ischio-rectal fossa. Bat then this protrusion can be traced forwards and upwards to the anus, and felt within the rectum. When an ischiatic hernia is detected, it may be reduced, and retained by means of a proper pad-support and bandage. Strangulation will necessitate recourse to operation, always a diffi- cult proceeding in regard to the anatomical relations of the hernia; and in enlarging the mouth of the sac, Sir A. Cooper recommends that the incision be made directly forwards. DxAPHEAGMATic Hernia.—In this rare form of hernia, one or more of the abdominal viscera protrude upwards through an aperture in the diaphragm into the thoracic cavity. (Fig. 826.) The hernial aperture Fig. 825.* Fig. 826.t may be one of the natural openings in the diaphragm ; or an opening as the result of congenital defect; but usually it is an ac- quired aperture, caused by laceration in con- sequence of a violent compression or fall, vio- lent vomiting or coughing, or produced by a penetrating wound, as by gunshot injury. The viscera protruded are commonly the stomach or the transverse colon, with a por- tion of omentum. There is usually no peri- toneal sac, rupture having occurred; and the hernia occurs generally * St Thomas's Hosp. Mus., R. 105. Ischiatic hernia, on the right side. The mouth of the sac is anterior to the internal iliac artery and vein, below the obturator artery, and above the obturator vein. The neck was situated anterior to and a little above, the sciatic nerve, on the fore part of the pyriformis muscle; and the fundus, situated on the outer part of the pelvis, was overlaid by the gluteus maxiiuus. Anterior to, but a little below, the fundus of the sac, is the sciatic nerve ; behind it, the gluttoal artery; above, it is near the bone, and below are the muscles and liga- ments of the pelvis. On opening the abdomen, the ileum had descended on the right side of the rectum into the pelvis, and a fold of it was prot.uded into a smaJl sac, which passed out of the pelvis at the ischiatic notch. Strangulation had taken place, even to sphacelus. The patient, a man aged twenty-seven, "'"'f.f' retching, and violent pains in the epigastrium; coUapse ensued, and he died on tue eighth day. (Sir A. Cooper.) f Ibid., R. 108'. Diaphragmatic hernia.