145 INJURIES OF THE SCALP. by gi'^^g ^ yent to the matter from the wound, or by an early counter-opening in the most dependent part, or by means of com- presses properly applied. With erysipelas or diffuse cellulitis super- vening, incisions will be more especially necessary, both to relieve tension and to discharge matter and sloughs. The dressing is ex- changed for a poultice. Exposure of the bone is not always followed by exfoliation, or any occasion, therefore, for further interference, to remove dead bone; granulations freely springing up around, and in islets which coalesce and overspread the bone, the wound heals by this process. Water-dressing or a stimulating lotion, according to the state of the granulations, must be continued as usual, until cicatrization is completed. Medicinal treatment consists in moderating the circulation by gentle aperients, with a restricted diet, especially as regards stimu- lants ; followed by a tonic and supporting plan of treatment, in the event of suppuration or erysipelas. Rest has an important influence, as favouring the process of reparation, and is of the utmost conse- quence with regard to the liability of cerebral symptoms. Bandaging the Head.—Various forms of head-bandage are in use. The ca;pelline is the most close-fitting, and therefore best adapted to retain any dressing in position. It is thus applied : Take a double- headed roller, about two inches wide ; lay the middle of this roller flat upon the forehead, just above the root of the nose, and draw either end, at the same level, around the head laterally to the occiput, below the protuberance; then cross them, and bring one end over the top of the head to the forehead, low down, the other end being drawn around the side of the head across the vertical turn, to fix it in place; this turn is then carried back over the head, partly overlaying the first turn ; at the occiput, the encircling band again crossing the vertical reflexion, keeps it in place at that point. By this cross-bandaging—vertical turns of the bandage backwards and forwards, retained by the horizontal turns, the head is completely covered as with a cap. (Fig. 593.) Or, the handkerchief cap Fig. 593. can be more readily applied, by folding an ordinary large-size handkerchief double, in a triangular form ; then, placing the base of the triangle just above the brows, while, the triangular portion lying on the head, the apex falls below the occiput, the ends of the handkerchief are drawn backwards around the head across the apex, and then back again to the front, where they are tied on the forehead. A four-tail bandage may be made out of a handkerchief, by cutting or tearing up each side to within a few inches of the centre: this central portion is laid on the top of the head; the anterior ends are drawn down- wards a,nd backwards to the back of the neck, and tied, the posterior ends being drawn across forwards to beneath the chin, and tied. GWs/io^ wound of the scalp may be complicated by one peculiarity the presence of a bullet as the foreign body, and which is situated under the mtegument, at some distance from the wound. This condition will be characterized by the absence of a second wound—the aperture VOL. II. ^'^