LATERAL LITHOTOMY. 679 exposing and balancing the perineum, instead of attempting to hang over and see the operation,—they will assuredly disturb the visual line of the operator, and thus embarrass him in his incisions and manipu- lations. The staff is now given in charge of an assistant, standing on the patient's left, with the injunction to hold it firmly, in the perpendicular direction, and hooked up against the symphysis pubis. (Fig. 877.) I once heard Mr. Ooulson request a young assistant to hook up the staff as if to the ceiling ; and I thought that illustration as to the mode of holding the staff very suggestive of the right way. Some Surgeons prefer that the convexity of the staff should be made to bulge slightly forward in the perineum ; others that it should be turned somewhat Fig. 877. towards the left of the perineum; while some prefer that it should be depressed and held in contact with the stone. The assistant holds the staff between the thumb and fingers of his right hand ; the left hand is used to raise the scrotum from the raphe running down to the rectum. Thus, then, the space between the urethra and the rectum is exposed as much as possible, so that the one can be more readily approached without the risk of wounding the other. The Surgeon seating himself on the stool in front of the perineum, thus exposed, he shaves the integument on the left side, and introduces his finger into the rectum to know for certain that the bowel is empty and to induce its contraction; whereby any remaining feculent matter will be expelled, and the contracted state of the bowel diminishes the risk of its being wounded during the deeper incision. Then, with his left hand thumbing the tuberosity of the ischium and the ramus on the left side, he feels also, with the point of the forefinger, the sort of depression below the bulb of the urethra, in the middle line or raphe, which lies over the curve of the staff; a point about an inch and a half in front of the anus, rather lower than higher, and corresponding to a part of the instrument which in a thin perineum can often be plainly