878 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. handle. Tbe laryngeal sponge-holder, which is provided with a fresh piece of sponge at every application, is a useful and cleanly instru- ment. The following is the best mode of accurately applying medi- cated solutions :—The tongue of the patient being protruded from the mouth, and firmly held by his right hand enveloped in a towel or handkerchief, the mirror is properly introduced and held in the left hand of the operator, who dow introduces the brush with his right hand and touches the affected part of the larynx. Various kinds of syringes have been devised for the purpose of injecting fluids into the laryngeal cavity. Among them may be mentioned Turck's laryngeal syringe and Rauchf ass's injector. Powdered substances are sometimes introduced into the larynx by means of insufflators, which are curved, bard—rubber tubes, with an attached flexible tube and mouthpiece. The curved tube having been charged with the medicated powder and introduced into the pharynx of the patient, a single puff will suffice to convey the remedy to the diseased organ. For applying solid nitrate of silver, special "porte caustiques," provided with the proper laryn- geal curve, have been devised, but it is better to have _ the nitrate fused to the extremity of a piece of silver or aluminium wire. The remedies most generally applied to the larynx are solutions of the chloride of zinc (gr. x. or gr. xx., ad. ^i.), the perchloride of iron (5i. or 5 ii., ad. ^i.), sulphate of copper (gr. xx., ad. ^i.), carbolic acid (ten to thirty grains to the ounce of water). Solutions of nitrate of sUver are not so useful, owing to the nausea and spasm which is so often superinduced by them. Powdered nitrate of silver, mixed with starch or sugar, and morphia powders (morph. gr. I, amyli. gr. ^) are often of the greatest value in laryngeal disease, the latter remedy being particularly serviceable in laryngeal phthisis. Lartngotomy and Tracheotomt.—The windpipe may be opened by surgical operation ; either to establish Artificial Respiration for a time, or to remove a foreign body. According to the situation of making the artificial aperture, the operation is designated : Laryngotomy, when the crico-thyroid membrane is thus opened: Tracheotomy, when tlie trachea is the seat of operation. . The various conditions of injury or disease which cause a mechanical impediment to the respiration, and which may require either of these operations for relief, have been noticed in other parts of this work. Laryngotomy is very readily performed. The head of the patient beino- thrown back, the depression between the thyroid and cricoid car- tilag°es is easily touched with the point of the finger. A vertical m- cision is made in the middle line, about an inch long, with a narrow- bladed, pointed bistoury or scalpel; this incision passing between the sterno-thyroid muscles, a cross cut through the crico-thyroid mem- brane at once enters the air-passage. The air rushing m and out ot the aperture, and the immediate freedom of the respiration, shows that the object of the operation is accomplished. A curved laryngotomy- tube of suitable size should be introduced, and retained by tapes fastened round the neck. Very little haemorrhage occurs, but a smaAl branch from the superior thyroid artery, running across the membrane, may be divided and require torsion or ligature. Tracheotoviy.—This operation consists in cuttmg down ^ipo" J^! trachea, in some part of its extent, and then dividing two or three o its cartilaginous rings; a more difficult and perhaps dangerous pro