SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 846 be cured temporarily, the prolapsus subsequently returning. Failures of the operation sometimes occur ; more often as the result of extensive laceration, and perhaps loss of substance. If the patient's health is bad, or if erysipelas or other Hospital infection supervene, the wound may slough, and union be frustrated. Recto-vaginal fistula is an occasional result, principally from incompleteness of the operation itself. Foreign Bodies in the Yagina.—Various foreign bodies may be introduced into the vagina, accidentally or intentionally, and in the latter case occasionally with malicious intent. Thus, by a fall, the spike of an iron railing has been knov/n to enter the vagina ; in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, there is a glass tumbler which a woman had thrust into her vagina, for some purpose best known to herself; and I have extracted a piece of swollen sponge from the os uteri, which a young woman had passed up her vagina, with the view of preventing the liability to conception from sexual intercourse. The danger arising from the introduction of foreign bodies into the vagina depends upon their nature, the amount of damage done, and the period of impaction. A hard, rough body, forcibly thrust up the passage, is often productive of copious hmmorrhage, especially by lacera- tion of the labia externally. Hasmorrhage from lesions of the vagina may mostly be stopped by pressure, or by plugging, aided by styptics, as perchloride of iron or tincture of iodine. But it is sometimes necessary to pass a curved needle, armed with a wire suture, well under the bleeding surface. On twisting the suture, bleeding is commonly controlled. A pointed body ma,j pe7-forate the vagina, as in Mr. Erich- sen's case of punctured wound already mentioned. The continued impaction of A foreign body gives rise to vaginitis and discharge, requiring appropriate treatment, even when the substance has been removed. Diseases op the External Genitals.—Hypertrophy of the Labia, OR OF THE Clitoris.—These parts are liable to enlargement, of a fibro- cellular character, as thickened and pendulous labia; or sometimes forming an apparently distinct outgrowth. This hypertrophy, or tumour, seems to be the result of prolonged irritation, in connection with some fissure of the part, or from morbid vaginal discharge. A fibro-cellular outgrowth of the clitoris, which had attained to the size of a very large cocoa-nut and weighed thirty ounces, was removed at the Royal Free Hospital. I gave a short description of the growth in the Lancet, August, 1857. Excision is the only remedy for these conditions. Haemorrhage is often profuse, the blood coming from a number of small vessels. A good precaution, therefore, is to transfix the base of the mass by means of hare-lip pins and twisted sutures, before using the knife. The out- o-rowth form of hypertrophy may be removed with less hemorrhage, by ecraseur or ligature, or the galvanic cautery-wire. Condylomata or VERROCii are of common occurrence, in consequence of prolonged irritation from syphilitic or gonorrhteal discharge, and uncleanliness. A large cauliflower mass is at length formed. Its removal can sometimes be effected, like warts of the prepuce m males, by dusting the part with a powder consisting of equal proportions of piilverized savine and copper. Excision, however, must generally be