CHKONIC ENLARGEMENT OF TIIE PROSTATE. 741 opposite side predominates ; or, perhaps, by an enlargement of either Imlf of the middle lobe. Thus, then, the urethral canal, as a whole, is always elongated and more curved ; while the prostatic portion and vesical orifice may some- times together have also a tortuous course. These alterations, how- FiG. 908.* Fig. 909.t ever, are necessarily alike dependent on the prostatic portion of the urethra; or, as regards the vesical orifice, on the prostate just within the bladder. The causes of chronic prostatic enlargement, or hypertrophy, are obscure. Various causes have been assigned, all of which are disproved by the searching examination to which Sir H. Thompson has submitted this question. All circumstances which tend to induce active determi- nation of blood to the part, may aid, in the development of hypertrophy. Hence, emotional excitement of a sexual kind, actual excesses, over- stimulating food, sedentary habits, horse-exercise, and such like, may be enumerated as accessory causes of this aJffection. But the initial cause or origin seems to be unknown. Symptoms.—Commencing insidiously, chronic enlargement of the prostate makes some perhaps considerable progress before any marked symptom supervenes. Then the symptoms manifested are:—in- creased frequency of micturition, with more or less urgency of desire; a bearing-down sense of weight about the neck of the bladder and rectum, with perhaps pain in the glans penis and testicles ; a less forcible propulsion of urine, with delay rather than difliculty in its 13assage, but each act of micturition is felt to be incomplete and is concluded by an involuntary leaky dribbling; there may be slight hcemorrhage occasionally, and some muco-purulent discharge from the urethra. In addition to these four groups of symptoms, which seve- * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2501. Enlargement of ih.e left lateral lobe of the prostate, as a convex or angular projection into the urethra; with nipple-form pro- jection of the middle lobe, directed from the opposite side. Deepening of the prostatic urethra, and curvature; its concavity being turned towards the convex lateral lobe. (Listen.) In this and the previous case, the curvature of the prostatic urethra is increased by the enlargement of the middle lobe having a direction from the opposite side. t Ibid., 2481. Enlargement of the right lateral lobe of the prostate; showing crescentic urethral orifice, with its horns turned towards the right side. (Sir A. Cooper.)