BESULTS OF KNEE-JOINT EXCISION. 21 Connparative Mortality of Excision, and Amputation in the Thigh.-— The results of thigh-amputation for disease, as noted m University College Hospital, are thus stated by Mr. Erichsen : of 34 cases of such amputation, 7 died ; or say 1 in 5—a mortality of 20^ per cent. Mai- eaia-ne's statistics from the Parisian Hospitals show a far higher mor- tality • in 153 cases of thigh-amputation for disease, 92 died, being a mortality of 60 per cent. Mr. Syme represents the mortality as yet hio-her—from 70 to 80 per cent., taking amputations of the thigh o-enerally. ApproacHng larger masses of results, we find that in Mr. T Bryant's collection of 1168 cases of thigh-amputation, 254 died, or 2i-7 per cent. ; and in Carrick's still larger collection of 1413 cases, 434 died—a mortality of 3071 per cent., or 9 per cent, higher mor- tality than in the former series. These large collections of cases, how- ever, are indiscriminate. They include excisions for injury as well as for disease, and the latter not exclusively such as might be eligible tor excision. But Mr. Bryant has supplied 188 cases of amputation of the thia-h for chronic disease of the knee-joint; and of these there were 41 deaths—1 death in between 4 and 5 cases, or a mortality of 21-8 per cent. This nearly corresponds to the death-rate first stated; and it about equals the death-rate after excision. But if the mortality of thic^h-amputation, and of excision of the knee-joint, both for disease of the joint, be thus about equal, the patients who survive eitheropera- tion have a very different advantage; the one being without a limb', the other with the limb preserved ! State of the Limb.—The functional result of excision, whether of the knee-joint or other joints, is generally expressed in rather vague terms—e.^., useful limb, without specifying the kind of union, or the position of the limb, as straight or bent. This indefinite mode of record omits much satisfactory information respecting the state of the hmb after operation. As a specimen of the average record of re- sults under this head, I may cite from Mr. Butcher's collection of cases referred to in considering the relation of knee-joint excision to the mortality after operation. Of the 25 recoveries, out of 31 cases, 17 -were enabled to walk about with "perfect use" of the limb. Of the 41 recoveries, out of 50 cases, 33 had " useful limbs," the remaining 7 being subjected to amputation. Compared with the stump after amputation, Sir William Fergus- son justly observes :—" A well-healed stump never in reality improves, unless, possibly, it gets more callous, whilst often it gets more tender and irritable; but the seeming perfect result of excision at the end of six or twelve months, just when stumps are generally at the best, is no criterion of true perfection. If the limb is properly managed after- wards, it goes on improving for months—ay, for years. The thigh, leg, and foot enlarge in bulk; and in particular, with this change, the leg and foot improve in muscular energy." But why draw any further comparison between a stump—a truncated limb, and a slightly short- ened limb, even although the stump be fitted and set off with an artificial leg ? The average dwation of the progress of recovery is considerable. According to Dr. Hodges* tables, the duration of treatment, when the patella had been removed, in 48 cases, was 225 days; and when that bone is believed to have been left, in 38 cases, this period extended to 255 days. The average duration, therefore, was about eight months.