734 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. stone. In the fem.ale, incontinence is generally the result of some injury to the urethra, impairing or destroying the action of the sphincter; such as sloughing from pressure in difficult labour, from the application of instruments in delivery, or from over-dilatation of the urethra for the removal of stone in the bladder; but the incontinence is not un- frequently an hysterical affection. The neck of the bladder is sometimes the seat of structural disease or malformation ; occasionally, of disorganization resulting from injury, as from a kick or fall on the perineum, or the operation of lithotomy. The incontinence is then usually a continual dribbling, the urine run- ning off from the bladder as fast as it arrives there from the kidneys. This condition, therefore, differs from both the ordinary modes of in- continence, in childhood or adult life. It differs also from frequent micturition, not only in its involuntary character, but in there being no distinct acts of micturition. Treatment.—In children.—A general tonic plan of treatment is in- dicated, combined sometimes with sedatives. The vinum ferri is often beneficial, or the sesquichloride of iron, quinine, strychnia, or the tincture of cantharides, niay be administered vrith advantage. Of course, the doses of these agents must be apportioned to the early period of life. Sir H. Thompson speaks highly of the extract of bella- donna ; commencing, according to the age of the patient, with the sixteenth to the eighth of a grain twice a day, and increasing the dose Fig. 900. as far as it can be safely borne, when requisite. In extremely obstinate cases, he has succeeded by applying a solution of nitrate of silver, ten grains to the ounce, to the prostatic portions of the urethra and neck of the bladder. And in the female, this remedy is also easily applicable. The sacro-lumbar region may be subjected to the influence of a cold douche every morning, or to counter-irritation, occasionally, by blister- ing. Any source of intestinal irritation, as worms, must be removed; masturbation, if practised, should be prevented, if possible; and acidity of the urine corrected. Under this course of treatment, the child, who