622 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. SfiO.* mnv S^l'V ^^f ^"""^ ^^^'^'^ receptacle a quantity of urine may be drawn off, below the level that the patient could expel By tiltmg up the vaginal wall with the fingers, the bladder is^ readHv emptied; and this natural mode of relief, aided by an inclined poS forwards, the patient may herself have learnt by experience ^ ihe ca^ise of this prolapsed state of the bladder is soon discovered anythmg that has impaired the natural tone of the passage. Commonlv arising from repeated pregnancy, and tedious or difficult labour, this state of the parts is found mostly in women who have borne manv children, and m rapid succession. Sometimes also, in women who are weakly and subject to leucorrhcea, the vagina is naturally so lax that prolapsus of the bladder seems to be ever impending. But a naturallv l^x perineum, which readily yields under any straining effort, is so far !f 111! observed rather a protective support against the descent of the bladder, or, indeed, of the uterus. Hernia of the bladder, alias Gystocele, is a displacement of very rare occurrence. The protrusion may take place in either of the ordinary situations, as inguinal (Fig. 860) or femoral hernia; but it has been met with also as a perineal hernia. A tumour of a softened compres- sible character appears, say in the groin, and descends into the scro- tum ; thus resembling an intestinal protrusion —-an^ enterocele. But certain peculiar and dis- tinctive symptoms may be observed. The size of tbis swelling is scarcely affected by cough- ing—and which gives only a slight impulse— nor by the position of the patient, standing up or lying down; the swelling varies in size as the bladder is emptied, and fills again. On compressing the tumour during the act of micturition, or with a catheter in the bladder, the gwasz-intestinal protrusion subsides ; but it returns with the re-accumulation of urine. The unaided act of micturition may not reduce the swelling, for the protruded portion of the blad- der still remains full of ui-ine; and this partial retention is attended with incessant vesical irritability, and frequent desire to pass water —another symptom which distinguishes cysto- cele from intestinal hernia. A scrotal cystocele may simulate hydrocele—both are fluctuating tumours; but hydrocele is irreducible, except when congenital, and then the transparency of the distended tunica vaginalis may contrast with the opacity of a protruded bladder. Vesical hernia seems to originates in a relaxed and enlarged state of the bladder—an atonic condition, coupled with the retention of urine. The distended bladder yields laterally more readily than in any other * St. Mary's Hospital Mus., H. fe. 1. Hernia of bladder. The large herniated pouch was contained in a scrotal hernia, and it communicates above, by a constricted neck, with the pouch of the bladder, of smaller size, which was retained in tiie pelvis by its attachments to the enlarged prostate—shown at the upper part of the figure. The patient was never able to empty his bLtdder without compressing the large scrotal pouch, so as to force the urine up into the pelvic portion of the bladder. (Samuel Lane.)