250 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND STIRGEEY. as well as in tlie cartilaginous, portion of the meatus; tte latter kind being most frequent in old people, in whom it is caused by a flaccidity and looseness of the fibrous tissue forming the posterior and superior walls of the meatus, which fall forward upon the anterior wall, and thus convert the canal into a slit-like fissure. This narrowing seldom amounts to complete closure, and therefore seldom causes any impor- tant degree of deafness, except by forming to a certain extent an obstruction to the natural exit of the cerumen, and thus giving rise to its accumulation. In these cases the hearing is improved by drawing the auricle upwards and backwards, or by the introduction of a speculum; and the patient often finds it convenient to wear a small gold or silver tube in the meatus. Besides these and the congenital contractions which have already been mentioned, narrowing of the external meatus may arise from thickening of the skin after inflammation, chronic eczema, furuncles, tumours, or the continued use of astringent lotions or ointments. Except in the case of tumours, the canal may be dilated by the use of laminaria digitata or sponge dilators, or by small ivory bougies, gradually increasing in size, and so keeping up pressure on the walls of the meatus and promoting absorption. Any affection of the tym- panum which may be present, must be treated, and the canal kept clear of epidermis and cerumen by the injection of warm water. Exostoses and Hyperostoses.—Exostoses of the meatus are roundish elevations of various sizes, which occur in the bony portion of the canal. They have, usually, broad bases, though they are sometimes pedunculated. The skin covering them is moist and reddened, and very sensitive to pressure. This affection usually occurs in persons who have a tendency to rheumatism and gout; and may sometimes exist after inflammation of the meatus, though more frequently without apparent cause. It is often associated with affections which cause congestion of the mucous membrane of the tympanum, and is more frequent in men than women. The treatment is unsatisfactory unless the growth is pedunculated, in which case it may be broken off. In the other cases, attention being paid to any other affection which may be present, the application of iodine to the growth itself, and behind the ear to keep up counter- irritation, may diminish its size to a certain extent. Should the meatus be completely occluded, it will be necessary to trephine the exostosis, using tents or styles of lead—the same as used in affections of the lachrymal duct—to keep the channel open for the exit of any pus which may form behind the growth, and for the purpose of keeping those parts clean and of applying medicaments to them. Hyperostoses usually extend along the whole length of the long portion of the canal, occasionally presenting irregularities. They frequently occur after chronic otorrhoea, being caused by inflammation of the periosteum. The integument covering the bony formation is more or less reddened. The treatment is that of exostosis. Syphilitic Affections occur in the meatus, as condylomata and fissures around the orifice, ulcerations of the usual character, and exostoses. The treatment, both general and local, is of the usual kind. AspergilU are most frequently seen amongst the inhabitants of warm or damp climates, especially the Italians. They also sometimes occur