CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS OF THE ANUS AND RECTUM. 595 rectum can be distinctly felt as a thin septum under th.e point of the fino-er. This maybe opened by an exploratory puncture with a grooved needle or j&ne trocar, and if meconium fluid or gas escape, a free aperture should be made with a sharp-pointed bistoury. If the dis- tended end of the bowel cannot be felt, the anal cul-de-sac should be enlarged by an incision, carried towards the coccyx, so as to dividj the posterior wall of the sac ; and search made in this direction to the depth of an inch and a half or two inches from the anus. Failing to reach the bowel, further operation should be abandoned, and colotomy, in the left iliac region, resorted to. Bectal comviimications with the bladder, vagina, or perineum—co- existing with imperforate anus—may require operative interference, eventtially, to preserve life, as constipation and intestinal dilatation supervene; and in any such case, interference will be justifiable to relieve and render tolerable the otherwise wretched state of existence. In the case of a communication with the bladder, the opening is situated at the neck of the bladder, or more commonly at the anterior part of the prostatic portion of the urethra; it is not usually direct, but through the medium of a narrow channel, and is always small and insufficient. But the urethral aperture appears to be usually of a valvular character, so that, although faeces can pass into the urinary canal, the urine is unable to enter the rectum. The same operation should be performed as in the condition of imperforate anus coupled with deficiency of the rectum. Amussat, in 1835, first proposed that the end of the bowel should be brought down and secured to the integumental wound at the site of the anus; a proceeding much advocated by Dieiienbach. A passage lined with mucous membrane is thus made for the escape of the faeces, and the liability of feculent extravasation averted, and its consequences, diffuse cellulitis and peritonitis. Colotomy must be had recourse to, when the bowel is seated at a depth beyond an inch and a half to two inches. Rectal communication with the vagina, or a fistulous opening in the jyerineum, may be remedied by either of two operative procedures—en- largement of the original outlet, or the formation of a new anus at the natural site, and closure of the abnormal anus. ^echo-vaginal communication has been cured in both ways. En- largement of the original outlet, first suggested by Yicq-d'Azyr, is effected by division of the posterior wall of the vagina and the perineum as far as the coccyx, and retaining a cannula in the bowel. A similar operation was performed by Dr. Barton, of Philadelphia, and another by Dr. Parish, of the same city. In one case, the infant was aged nine months; in the other, fifteen months. To establish a new passage at the natural site, a curved director or sound should be ' passed through the vaginal opening into the bowel, with its point directed to the site of the anus; this is then cut upon in the middle line, the incision being carried backwards towards the coccyx. A free opening having thus been made in the bowel, it is brought down and secured by sutures to the margin of the integumental wound. Dilatation must subsequently be maintained. Closure of the abnormal com- munication with the vagina may take place spontaneously ; as in a case operated on by Dr. Sharpless, of Philadelphia, where the opening closed two months after the substitution of the operation-anus. Generally, it will be necessary to assist contraction and closure by