URINARY DEPOSITS. 633 stellar, or penniform crystals. (Fig. 864.) The two latter are phos- phate of lime.* This deposit occurs whenever phosphates are deposited in connection with an inflamed state of the mucous membrane of the bladder, the ammonia being supplied by the decomposition of urea, which con- stituent of the urine may be regarded as carbonate 8g4_ of ammonia, plus two atoms of water. Whether urine is ever secreted am- moniacal appears doubt- ful ; without doubt, how- ever, it may become so, after emission, by decom- position of the urea. This source of the ammonia present in the phosphate, as then formed, was first clearly perceived by Lecanu, and has since been explicitly pointed out by. Dr. Owen Rees. The decomposition of urea is effected apparently by the mucus acting as a ferment, which is always more freely secreted by an inflamed mucous membrane, as in pyelitis and cystitis. Ammoniaco-magnesian phos- phate, consisting of its characteristic crystals, is abundantly deposited ; and equally so, a white tenacious substance, that can be drawn into skeins of considerable length. It is said to consist of pus-globules, they having become adherent under the action of ammoniacal urine. Thence the phosphate above mentioned, together with granules of phosphate of lime, are involved in one gelatinous mass. This mixed deposit is frequently witnessed in cases of paralysis afEecting the bladder, which then assumes a condition bordering on inflammation. Chemical Tests.—All the phosphates are dissolved by acids—unlike coagulated albumen ; and remain unaffected by heat—unlike the lithates; but the following points of contrast distinguish the two kinds of alkaline urine—the ammoniacal from that caused by fixed alkali. Ammoniacal urine effects no change in blue litmus paper until it dries, when the pink colour immediately appears.f Urine becoming alkaline during digestion, i.e. from fixed alkali, turns pink paper blue, which remains so when dry. Ammoniacal urine deposits crystals of phosphate of ammonia and magnesia; while urine otherwise alkaline, from fixed alkali, deposits an amorphous powder of phosphate of lime. The former deposit is associated with mucus and pus; the latter with mucus only, and rarely in great quantity. Ammoniacal urine is con- stantly alkaline; that from fixed alkali is only occasionally alkaline, i.e. at particular periods of the day. Ammoniacal urine is a sign of local disease—inflammation of the ui'inary mucous membrane ; whereas alkalescence from fixed alkali is a sign of a more general disorder, i.e. indigestion. Guided by these characters, we can detect and discriminate the hind of alkali present in the urine, and its source. Yet such diagnosis, founded on the kind, and even the amount, of phosphatic salts deposited by the urine, signifies nothing concerning the total amount of phos- * Lancet, 18.53. (Hassall.) t See " Trans, of the Chemical Society," vol. ii. p. 244, communication by Dr. Bence Jones.