825 INFLAMMATION OF THE TESTICLE. nication witli tlie blood in circulation. Atrophy of the testis may be mentioned as an occasional result; but this will probably be avoided hy not cutting off the supply of blood entirely, in any procedure for obliterating the enlarged veins. The whole of the veins should not be included in the ligature, or subjected to compression and division; and the spermatic artery should be excluded, a precaution easily observed by keeping free of the vas deferens, near which the artery lies. Inflammation of the Testicle.—This subject comprises Orchitis, when the testicle itself is the seat of inflammation ; and Epididymitis, when the epididymis is primarily affected. Chronic enlargement of the testis or of the epididymis, resulting from special causes of inflamma- tion, may be Syphilitic or Scrofulous. These affections will be after- wards considered. Orchitis and Epididymitis.—Inflammation of the Testis occurs less frequently than that of the Epididymis. But either part being pri- marily affected, the other becomes involved; and thus Orchitis and Epididymitis are usually found associated. Symptoms.—Swelling arises, which has the characteristic shape of the part wherein the inflammation is seated; whether the testis, pre- senting an ovoid swelling; or the epididymis, when its inferior globus presents a nodular enlargement; or the whole of the epididymis, in the form of an elongated mass at the back of the organ, can be readily distinguished. As the swelling rapidly increases, it soon • becomes tense and hard, especially in the testis, owing to the resistance of its more unyielding tunic ; and it attains to a considerable size, that of an orange or even a small cocoa-nut. Effusion often takes place into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, as well as into the substance of the gland, of the epididymis, or of both these structures; and thus the swelling may be exaggerated beyond what really pertains to the testicle. Pain accompanies the swelling, and it increases in severity proportionately to the tension of the part; with a sense of dragging weight, or a dull, heavy, aching, and sickening pain, extending ujj the cord into the groin, iliac region, and loins. The scrotum becomes tender, distended, and reddened, exhibiting also a congested state of the scrotal veins ; as the integument and subcellular texture partici- pate in the inflammation. Sharp inflammatory fever attends the development of the disease; and there is usually considerable nausea, or even vomiting and constipation, simulating strangulated hernia. Causes.—Various injuries of the testicle, and sources of urethral irritation, may give rise to orchitis or epididymitis ; and certain con- stitutional diseases have a predisposing influence, or may directly induce these inflammatory affections. Thus, exciting causes com- prise : a blow, squeeze, or wound of the organ; urethral irritation, especially near the orifices of the seminal ducts, as by gonorrhoeal or other inflammation of the urethra, stricture, or the introduction of instruments, the impaction in, or the passage through, the urethra of a calculus; injury to the vas deferens in lithotomy or in puncture of the bladder per rectum. The various sources of irritation in the urethra, or occasions of injury to the seminal ducts, more commonly give rise to epididymitis than to orchitis; although the testis often becomes secondarily inflamed. The causative operation of urethral irritation in exciting inflamma- tion of the epididymis is doubtful. It does not arise from gonorrhoea