SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 570 the venous and arterial; and of the latter, a where they freely communicate, also enlarge considerably. As the venous or arterial element preponderates, so may be recognized two principal varieties of internal hasmorrhoids— sub-variety — the capillary, these varieties sometimes appearing singly, or associated in the same individual. In old-standing haemor- rhoids, the mucous membrane and submu- cous cellular tissue become greatly hyper- trophied, and extremely vascular. Elongated processes of a polypoid form are thus pro- duced, extending to an inch in length, and projecting transverse folds, an inch or more in width. The sywptoms contrast in two impor- tant particulars with those of external piles. At first, internal piles present no external appearance at the anus, but they not unfrequently bleed. Hence, the distinction commonly made of Piles into opeii and Mind, as they bleed or not. The fir.st symptom of internal piles is, generally, an attack of haemorrhage, venous or arterial, and more or less profuse; merely tinging a motion, or escaping as a few drops of blood afterwards, or to the amount of several ounces. Accumulating within the bowel sometimes, the actual loss of blood from the system may be greater than appears at first sight. This discharge of blood is attended with, or preceded by, a bearing-down weight in the fundament, and more or less frequent desire to micturate. Straining efforts are made to evacuate the con- tents of the bowel, the passage of faeces being both difficult and painful; at length, hemorrhoidal tumours, with mucous membrane, are pro- truded, or prolapsed to some extent at the anus, in the act of defaeca- tion, accompanied with mucous discharge. They then exhibit remark- able diversities of appearance ; according to their number, size, variety, and condition. Commonly, there are three distinct prominent growths differing in size; one at each side of the anus, and a third in front, —this, the perineal, being usually the largest. In old-standing cases, there may be four or five such projections. Their boundaries are generally well marked ; or the piles merge into each other, forming a nearly circular protrusion. A single pile, of large size, is sometimes the only protrusion, situated towards the front of the anus adjoining the perineum. Consisting of bright-red mucous membrane connected with a loose fold of integument, it often forms in young persons, especially women. The venous and arterial varieties of internal haemorrhoids may be distinguished chiefly by their colour, respectively; bluish, or reddish, and the latter pulsating, perhaps freely, to the touch, espe- cially at the base of the swelling. Either variety of hsemorrhoid is disposed to bleed readily under pressui'e with the finger; and the blood is either of a dark, or florid red, colour ; in the one case issuing as an oozing haemorrhage, in the other escaping with a jotting flow. Extruded Piles exhibit a variable appearance also, depending on * Boy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 1280. A ring of internal hsemorrhoids; pedunculated upwards, dilated downwards, with prolapsed state of the overlying mucous mem- brane, around the anus. A second ring of hsemorrhoids is marked off by a con- striction at the lower margin of the sphincter ani muscle. (Hunterian.) Fig. 837.*