SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 284 the columna, becomes pendulous, projecting, and tbickened; aug- menting the disfigurement. Restoration of the columna may be effected hy the operation already noticed as supplementary to that for the nose ; by means of a tongue taken from the middle of the upper lip. In case of a short upper lip, the columna may be raised from a horizontal flap out of the lip, or from the adjoining part of the cheek. (3.) Ala.—When one ala only is deficient, a flap of integument, suitably shaped, may be raised from the cheek, and adjusted to the part, the edges of which have been previously pared, and retained there by a few points of suture. When both alse are wanting, or if the cheek be thin, the flap had better be brought from the forehead. The connecting pedicle will necessarily be long and thin; and to main- tain the vitality of the engrafted flap, a groove had better be made in the dorsum of the nose to receive the pedicle. Nasal j^siztZce may admit of repair in like manner; the aperture being closed by a portion of adjoining skin borrowed from the cheek or forehead. (4.) Depressed Nose.—Depression of the cyjea;, or of the bridge of the nose, may severally occur; owing to the loss of the septal cartilage, or of the septum and nasal bones,—the fabric of the organ, although the external parts remain entire. These defects may be remedied by loosening the alar connections of the nose, and drawing integument from the cheeks; thus raising the depressed portions of the organ, according to the proceeding of Larrey and Dieffenbach, who revived the operation of Celsus; or by the elevating operation of Sir W. Fergusson,—a simplified modification of that proceeding. The point of a small scalpel, says Sir W. Fergusson, was introduced nnder the apex, and the alse were separated from the parts underneath ; the knife was carried on each side between the skin and the bones, as far as the infra-orbital foramen, taking care not to interfere with the nerves ; when, by passing the point of my finger below the nose, I caused the latter organ to be as prominent as could be wished. I now passed a couple of long silver needles, which had been prepared for the purpose, with round heads and steel points, across from one cheek to the other, having previously applied on each side a small piece of sole- leather, perforated with holes at a proper distance; then I cut off the steel points, and with tweezers so twisted the end of each needle, as to cause the cheeks to come close to each other, and thereby render the nose prominent. Thus, by bringing the cheeks more into the mesial line, a new foundation, as it were, was given to the organ. Adhesion followed in some places, granulation in others; in the lapse of ten days the needles were withdrawn, and in the course of a few weeks, when cicatrization was complete, the nose presented as favourable an appear- ance as could reasonably have been desired. In all these operations de convenance, and of very nncertain result, " let it "—as Mr. Skey advises—" be the patient who urges the opera- tion." The responsibility will then be divided. Sloughing of the new- nose took place in one of Mr. Listen's early cases ; in another, hasmor- rhage occurred nnder the flap, on the ninth day, and more than a pmfc of blood was lost; while, two patients out of six died, on whom Dieffen- bach operated, owing probably to an nnfavourable state of constitution. Artificial noses have been devised, instead of resorting to operation. Formerly made of metal, flexible noses are now constructed of mdia-