835 CANCER OF THE TESTICLE. chronic enlargement of the testicle,—syphilitic or scrofulous. The symptoms of inflammation, or the constitutional condition, respectively exclude these Swellings of the testicle from the question of diagnosis ; and the various forms of Tumour are severally excluded by reference to the above-named characters. Thus, Cancer Tumour of the testicle differs from Gystic Tumour in all these particulars,—its solidity, weight, and rapidity of growth ; from Fibrous Tumour, if such should occur, it differs in the far greater rapidity of growth ; and from Gartilaginous Tumour, the difference in this respect is equally significant. As com- pared with non-transfarent Hydrocele, and with Hcematocele, respectively, the solidity and weight of Cancer Tumour are distinctive. But often the diagnosis can be accurately ascertained only by puncture of the Tumour, in order to subject to microscopic examination the substance or fluid from the mass in question. Scirrhous cancer far less frequently affects the testicle; a few examples only of this form of the disease having been recorded. The signs, as distinguished from encephaloid cancer, are greater solidity, hardness, and weight of the testicle; but the tumour is not disposed to attain so large a size, nor to undergo ulceration. It is characterized also by slow growth, but the cord and lumbar glands at length become enlarged and indurated. Secondary cancer of other organs is unfrequent, and cachexia is generally less marked. The disease occurs at a later period of life. Treatment of Cancer of the Testicle.—Castration is the only cure; provided that the whole of the disease can be thus removed. Con- sequently, when the disease is entirely local—affecting only the testicle —the operation may be performed, and with an equal chance of suc- cess, as after the removal of cancer in other parts. When, however, the spermatic cord is involved, and perhaps also the lumbar glands, forming a tumour more or less perceptible in the abdomen, castration will be unjustifiable. The results of the operation have been unsatisfactory both in the localized and extended conditions of the disease. Thus, in the latter con- dition, of thirty-six cases collected in the " Medical Times and Gazette " (vol. xix.), three died within a week; two died within six weeks; and two within three months of the operation. In each case, there was disease of the lumbar glands or lungs, or both. When the disease, being local, has been completely extirpated, the tendency to secondary cancer, particularly in the lungs, is remarkably strong ; and life may be prolonged only by a short period. On the other hand, encouraging results have been obtained by operation, although not more so than by leaving the disease to its natural course of duration. One patient, under Professor Humphry's observation, lived four years, and died, as was beheved, of phthisis. A similar period of existence, in another case, was known to Sir B. Brodie, and the patient then remained well. Mr. Curling also relates four cases in which the patients were well at the respective periods of ten, four, nine, and twelve years after the operation. Without operation, in two of the above-mentioned thirty- six cases, the disease terminated fatally in a period of four months from the time it was first observed in the testicle; but cases have been recorded in which life continued for five, and even fifteen years ! Castkation.—Removal of the testicle is a very simple operation, l)ut certain practical directions of importance should be observed. The