MYBINGITIS. OPACITIES. 255 Sbould, however, considerable deafness or tinnitus liave arisen from a blow, either with or without rupture of the membrane, the result may be unfavourable, as probably the stapes has been driven into the fenestra ovalis, tearing the ligaments and possibly the membrane and nerve-fibres, and remaining fixed in the window. When the symptoms are such as to lead you to expect a severe propulsion of the stapes inwards, the patient must be kept under treatment for some time be- fore any opinion can be given as to what the results will be. If you can determine by the fork that the acoustic of that side lias lost its power, the prognosis is most unfavourable. Myringitis.—Inflammation of the membrana tympani, tbough. frequently seen in connection with inflammation of the external meatus or diseases of the middle ear, is very rarely a primary affection. When it is so, it usually comes on in the night, after exposure to cold, most frequently after bathing, with severe pain and tinnitus ; the pain ceasing as soon as discharge occurs. The membrane is hypertemic, flattened, and dull, the natural shining appearance being soon lost; while the handle of the malleus is not to be seen on account of the exudation between the layers of the membrane. The meatus, which, in the beginning of the attack is unaffected, soon becomes inflamed about its inner extremity, the line of demarcation between it and the membrane becoming obliterated. In the chronic form of myringitis, which is more frequent, the discharge and pain are so slight, and the affection so little disturbing to the patient, that it may exist for months or even years before a Surgeon is consulted. The membrane appears dull and hazy, yellow or grey in colour, and the handle and short process of the malleus are scarcely visible. It is thickened, and, should there be irregularities in its surface, adhesions in the tympanum are to be feared. The prognosis in the acute form is very favourable, the disease rapidly recovering under proper treatment; though, if neglected at the beginning, it may lead to perforation of the membrane. In the chronic form, treatment often is continued for a long time before the secretion is restrained; and even then the thickening of the membrane which remains, causes a permanent diminution of the hearing power. The treatment is principally that of otitis externa. Opacities.—^In examining the membrane, the points to be noticed k are its colour, transparency, lustre, light-cone, incHnation, curvature, entirety, tension, whether adhesions are ^^^50^^ present or not, and the position of the Ftg. 651.f handle and short process of the malleus. For a full description of these and their anomalies, the reader must be re- ferred to Politzer's " Beleuchtungsbil- der des Trommelfills in Gresunden und Kranken Zustande" (Wien, 1865),but a short notice of the changes found in the fTillri^™"" of J^if membrana tympani may be found use- lul tor diagnosis. Abnormal thickenmg and opacity of the epidermic ^ right Ja^^C^IuberT'^*' ™^ °f membrana tympani of the