453 DISEASES OF THE BKEAST. oDerated on, a little beyond twelve years. The temporary relief ivom Rufferino- should, however, always be taken into account m considering the advfsability of operation; and that the progress of the more rapid cases is retarded by operation. . . . The comparative advantages of excision, and removal by caustic annlications, may be thus summarily stated. The one method is expe- ditious, attended with little suffering, and certain of remo^ng the whole of the diseased organ ; if the operation be performed snf&ciently free of the disease. The treatment by caustics is tedious, attended generally with excruciating pain, and very uncertain in its operation. In compariuo- the results of the two methods upon the constitutional proo-ross or local recurrence of the disease, there is not a balance of evidence in favour of either; Both are commonly followed by a return of cancer in situ, or its development in distant parts. ^ Recurrent cancer of the ireasi.—Cancer may return m the cicatrix, and subsequently implicate the glands ; or in the glands without any previous affection of the cicatrix. As secondary cancer, the disease may reappear in some internal organ,—the lungs, bones, liver, or uterus. More rarely, the disease returns in the opposite breast. The species of recurrent growth, in any situation, is almost always the same as the primary cancer-,—scirrhus. Cicatricial scirrhus presents itself m tbo form of scattered tubercles or buttons of cancer-growth; a very cha- racteristic appearance. The period of return is nncertain; sometimes before cicatrization is completed, and having the character of a can- cerous ulcer; or not until after some weeks or months of completed cicatrization, tben having the tubercular form in and around the cica- trix, and the nodular growths undergoing cancerous ulceration. Re- current cancer may, or may not, run its course more rapidly than the original growth, but it is said to be less painful and exhaustive. _ The operation of excision is still justifiable, even to the third or fourth reappearance of cancer, in order to relieve suffering ; provided the constitutional power of the patient seem sufficient to sustain life. I thus removed with some advantage a large tubercular cancerous cicatrix, and subsequently the whole of the axillary glands in a buncb, from a lady, whose breast I had previously completely excised; but, after she had again enjoyed a temporary respite, the disease returned a second time, in the form of a nodular shield over the pectoral muscle, and when last I heard of her she Avas in a dying state. The cure of cancer of the breast, or in other parts, is sometimes said to be possible, probable, or certain, in some instances. Of course this question, as to the result of any case, implies a previously correct diao-nosis,—that no other kind of tumour has been mistaken for cancer. Then, if by cure be meant the arrest of cancer-growth, in the natural progress of the disease, aided perhaps by local and constitutional treat- ment, undoubtedly there are rare such instances,—the tumour becom- ing quiescent, perhaps disappearing, and even in the stage of ulceration, cicatrization has taken place, and the ulcer remained healed. But this apparent termination of the disease is only temporary, although the period of cessation, in scirrhus for example, may continue for months or years,—to ten or twelve years, and life has been prolonged to eighteen or twenty-five years. Yet there is probably no single authentic case of permanent recovery; cancer-growth has at length reappeared in the part originally affected, or as secondary cancer in