188 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. have a knack of skilfully licking out a particle of iron from the eye ; a nasty mode of performing a nice ophthalmic operation, but it answers well, and the tongue-brush is always ready for any emergency. Powder, of any kind, must be syringed out with water; or lime may be *aeutralized and removed by thus applying weak vinegar-and- water, and subsequently instilling a few drops of oil two or three times a day. Abrasion of the conjunctiva sometimes occurs, without the presence of a foreign body, as by the scratch of a finger-nail; and any such injury will occasion more pain, if less irritation, than a rough particle in the eye. A drop of castor oil is, according to Mr. Bowman's ex- perience, the most soothing application ; but a small pad of cotton wool should, in addition, be placed on the closed eyelid, and a bandage passed round the head, so that the eye may be kept at rest. The abraded epithelium is usually restored in the course of a day or two. Impacted and penetrating foreign bodies are to be extracted as soon as possible. Sportsmen engaged in shooting frequently receive shots in the eye, and many eyes are annually lost in this way. The fact of the entrance of the shot is in all instances a subject of anxious in- quiry. Accurate conclusions may sometimes be drawn from a careful consideration of the position of the head of the patient in regard to the point from whence the shot was fired, his distance from it, and the strength of the charge. As a rule, the shot may be held to be lodged in the eye when there is a distinct hole in the cornea or sclerotic, through which a probe can be passed,—when the iris is torn and the lens is hazy or cataractous. In such cases, if the patient will consent, removal of the eye is the best treatment, as it can never again become a useful organ, whilst the presence of the shot is exceedingly likely to cause irritation, followed by sympathetic inflammation in the opposite eye. In some rare cases, however, shots have remained for a long time imbedded in the eye, without being productive of any harm. And the risk of sympathetic ophthalmia is much less if the shot has passed quite through the globe, and lodged in the connective tissue and fat of the orbit. In the slighter forms of injury, inflammation generally subsides after removal of the cause, but it should be subdued if it continue; remembering, however, that after the removal of any small particle of matter from the eye, the sensation of its presence remains for some time, with continued redness of the conjunctiva and lachrymation. This sensation is sympathetic, and practically misleading. Diseases. Diseases or the Eyelids.—(1.) Hordeolum, or Stye.—A minute boil, beginning at the edge of the lid, as a small, red, hard swelling, accompanied with itching and a sense of stiffness. The whole lid per- haps becomes involved, and the eye closed. Matter forms and dis- charges from the summit of the boil, a small slough of cellular texture escapes, and the red swelling subsides and disappears. Sometimes this furuncular inflammation remains indolent, without suppuration. Weak and scrofulous children are most subject to this affection; adults far less commonly. Treatment consists in warm fomentations or poultices, until pointing occurs; with tonics, attention to the bowels and diet. Indolent stye may be touched with nitrate of silver.