257 PERFORATION OF THE TYMPANUM. cavity out tlirougli tlie perforation, so tliat a noise corresponding to the amount of air forced through, a perforation of a certain size is heard by the Surgeon—this is called Valsalva's metliod; by bearing the rush outwards of air from a Politzer's bag; or by passing the Eustachian catheter, and hearing the same while forcing a current of air through the catheter with an india-rubber bag or with the mouth. The size of perforations varies from that of a small pin-hole, to an almost entire absence of the membrane; their most frequent position being below and in front of the handle of the malleus, though they may occui' in any part of the membrane. "Where the greater part of this structure is wanting, or where the perforation is immediately below the handle of the malleus, the aperture is usually kidney or heart shaped, from the projection of the malleus into it. (Fig. 652.) Where the per- foration is recent and the acute attack whicb caused it was short, the prognosis is usually favourable, and the aperture may be completely closed without leaving any discernible pathological change. Such a favourable result is, however, rare after a chronic attack accompanied by otorrhoea, though in some cases, where as miich as two-thirds of Fig. 652.* Fig. 653.t Fig. 654.$ the membrane are wanting, the aperture may be closed by a cicatrix. The process of healing is known by a gradual diminution of the secretion and of the perforation. The cicatrix is formed of the mucous and dermoid layers, is of a more delicate structure than the natural membrane, and is not separable into laminse. (Figs. 653, 654.) It is usually sunken, with well-defined edges ; and if large, usually presents a glistening reflection, like gold-beater's skin. The hopes of closure are at an end for the time, when the edges of a perforation become cicatrized and an aperture still remains ; but a new impetus may be given to the regenerative power by any future affection whicb causes a hypersemia of the part and the softening o£ the cicatricial edges of the perforation. The treatment is, as a rule, to close the perforation, if possible; but lu most cases of cbronic perforation, especially where the aperture is large, the mucous membrane of the cavity, having lost its natural pro- tection and being exposed to cold, dust, air, and other irritants, is in an unhealthy condition, often red and granular, with a chronic discharge from it. In these cases, before the size of the aperture is lessene°l, the cavity of the tympanum should be got into a healthy condition by * Kidney-shaped perforation of the membrana tympani, occupyino- the greater portion of the membrane below the handle of the malleus. (Politzer.)° uh; I'^^f'^^^v ^'^^ cavity of the tympanum, showing the new membrano vnicu lias been formed by the cicatrization of a perforation adherent to the pro- montory. (Politzer.) 'inA?rn°"/!',^°"^^,*^° ^'^y/*^ tympanum, showing the membrana tympani VOL malleus adherent to the promontory, (rolitzer.) s