SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 848 Closure of the Jaws.—This condition implies more or less inability to open the mouth and to perform the act of mastication. It may be spasmodic or permanent. (1.) Sfasmodic closure, sometimes of several weeks' duration, ia almost invariably connected with difficult eruption of the wisdom teeth of the lower jaw. Owing to want of space for, or malposition of, the tooth, constant pressure thus occasioned, induces a state of tonic spasm of the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles. The treatment consists in opening the mouth under the influence of chloroform, and with the aid of wedges or a screw gag ; the second molar must then be extracted to make room for the wisdom tooth, or the tooth itself may be removed. (2.) Permanent closure may be the result of several causes oper- ating mechanically;—profuse salivation, with sloughing of the cheeks i and the formation of rigid cicatrices which draw up and hold the i lower jaw closely and tightly against the upper; anchylosis of the temporo-maxillary articulations, in consequence of injury, or of arthritic inflammation; the formation of an osseous bridge between ; the jaws, or the lower jaw aiud temporal bone, as a rare consequence i of chronic articular arthritis ; pressure of a neighbouring tumour, especially in the parotid region, so as to directly fix the joint. Besides I interfering with mastication and articulation, permanent closure in i early life is often followed by stunted development of the jaw, present- < ing a marked shortening of the chin and an oblique direction of the i front teeth. With perforation of the cheek, there is a constant dribbling | escape of the saliva, and the most disgusting disfigurement. i Treatment must have reference to the nature and situation of the cause of closure. Rigid cicatrices may be relieved, not perhaps permanently remedied, by excision of the contracted integument; the patient wearing for months or years the silver shields adapted to the upper and lower jaws by Mr. Clendon, or other suitable apparatus, to counteract the tendency to re-contraction. Anchylosis of the temporo-maxillary articulations may be overcome by mechanically breaking up the adhesions, under the in- ■ fluence of chloroform. An osseous bridge, connecting the jaws, can be severed and removed by cutting-pliers and a small saw; but this pro- . ceeding must .be warranted by an accurate diagnosis. Any tumour which mechanically impedes the motion of the jaw may be extirpated, provided its anatomical relations to the parotid gland do not contra- iudicate such operation. The formation of an artificial joint in the lower jaw was originally suggested by Esmarch in 1855 ; followed by Rizzoli in 1857, who quite independently conceived a similar idea. The one, however, performed excision of the joint; the other simply cut through the jaw, without removing any portion of bone. Esmarch's operation appears to be preferable, as facilitating the formation of a false, movable joint. It was first performed by Dr. Wilms, of Berlin, in 1858, and successfully; shortly afterwards by Esmarch, with equal success; and subsequently by Diltt, of Vienna, and by Wagner, of Konigsberg, It was introduced into this country by Mr. Mitchell Henry, the patient sinking from pyaemia; since which some satisfactory results have been obtained. A small incision along the edge of the jaw exposes the articulation, when sufficient bone