SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 78 closure, and tlie treatment for consequent synovitis. In the event of inflammatory disease, thus of traumatic origin, having terminated in destruction of the articular cartilages, without the supervention of anchylosis, the propriety of excision must be determined by the same consideration as with reference to idiopathic disease of the joint —namely, the measure of constitutional reserve-power. (2.) Com- pound fracture involving the joint. (3.) Compound dislocation of the joint. (4.) Grunshot wounds of the knee-joint may comprise one or more of these conditions, with perhaps, as a complication, the addition of a foreign body in, or near to, the joint. (Fig. 520.) The operation is performed in accordance with the directions already given, when the joint is diseased; the incision being modified conform- ably to the state of the integument in injury of the joint. The after-treatment also is the same, as to the retentive appliances, and their reapplication from time to time, only as occasion may absolutely render necessary; but the more severe inflammation apt to arise after excision for injury, must be promptly met by more actively repressive measures. Results.—Cases of knee-joint excision for injury have been far less numerous than for disease; and insufficient to establish any general conclusions as to mortality or secondary amputation. Cases of lacerated wound of the joint, for which the operation has been performed, may be noticed; one in the practice of Mr. Kempe, of Exeter, the patient aged thirty, and the result perfectly successful, at the end of a year the patient being enabled to load a railway van; and in another case excision was resorted to by the late Mr. Price, as a secondary operation,—the patient, six years old, having two months previously sustained an extensive laceration of the knee-joint by a cart-wheel, followed by profuse suppuration and burrowing sinus,— yet apparently the result was successful. In a case of punctured wound of the knee-joint, by a needle, result- ing in anchylosis with dislocation, at the end of one year a,nd four months, Sir William Fergusson excised the joint; the patient re- covering with a shortened but perfectly straight limb. Cases of compound fracture of the knee-joint, for which excision was practised, have yielded some encouraging results. Dr. Watson per- formed the operation in a case of compound, comminuted fracture of the patella, with impaction of the fragments into the end of the femur ; but death ensued. Mr. Crompton, however, in a case of compound fracture of the condyle of the femur, had a successful result to the operation ; and, in a case of forcible separation of the lower epiphysis from the shaft of the femur, the patient being aged fifteen, sloughing and protrusion of the end of the femur took place, for which Mr. Canton excised the joint, and with a perfectly successful result. In a similar case, the same Surgeon having performed this operation, re- excision of a further protrusion of the femur was practised; and fibrous anchylosis with a useless limb resulting, Mr. Canton amputated the thigh, and the patient recovered. ^ r Gompound dislocation of the knee-joint will rarely admit of excision; owinc' to the extent of disorganization, amputation may be imperative. dltnshot injury to the knee-joint has not unfrequently allowed of excision but the results have been far more frequently successful in Civil than in Military practice. Successful cases have occurred: one