109 FiG. 549. AMPUTATION AT WRIST-JOINT AND OF FORE-ARM. Fig. 547. Amputation at the Weist-joint.—The radio-carpal articulation is as easily opened as any of the joints in the hand. An assistant holding the forearm, the operator lays hold of the hand on its palmar aspect, with his forefinger and thumb on the styloid processes of the radius and ulna; thus spanning the wrist, as the ^ limits of the incision. A short narrow-bladed amputating knife _ is used instead of a bistoury, and an incision made from one styloid process to the other, across the back of the joint, slightly curving towards the hand. (Fig. 547.) Passing the knife across the joint, clear of the arched- shaped surface of the carpal bones, the lateral ligaments are divided, and the knife carried forward on the palmar surface of the meta- I carpal bones, so as to make a rounded flap . of suflficient length to cover the ends of the radius and ulna, and unite with the dorsal : incision. In turning the knife round the joint, care must be taken not to hitch against • the pisiform bone, which projects forward on ■ the palmar aspect, beyond the other bones of • the carpus. The radial and ulnar arteries will require ligature or torsion, and perhaps some interosseous carpal ibranch. This amputation, not often requisite, is intended to preserve the : movements of pronation and I supination. Inappropriate, Fig. 548. therefore, for disease of the - - °- wrist, where the lower radio- ■ ulnar articulation is involved, the operation is suitable for injury where no portion of the hand can be saved, but with sufficient sound integu- : ment to form the palmar flap. An artificial hand may \ eventually be adapted to the stump; one of the most use- i ful forms is here represented I (Fig. 548), and one of its most i important uses. (Fig. 549.) Amputation of the Fore- AEM.—The middle of the fore- arm is the part to be preferred for amputation, as affording the most convenient coverings to the stump, and a tolerably suitable length of stump for the application of an artificial hand. The brachial artery must be commanded by an assistant, and the forearm held by another assistant, in a state of extension and semi-pronation,—the radius looking up- wards. The margins of the bones should be felt by the operator with one hand; a posterior flap is then made by a curved incision down-