312 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Pig, istration o£ mercury* in infancy ("Trans. Patk Soc," 187^- On Lamellar Cataract and Imperfect Teeth); and his view is endorsed by so careful an observer as my colleague, Mr. Moon (" Trans. Odont. , boc, i«77). lor myself, I have not had the opportunity of forming/ an independent opmion; but so far all the evidence which has been/ adduced tends to confirm the ac] curacy of Mr. Hutchinson's views ag to the effect of syphilis and of mer- cury on the teeth, while nothing at all worth consideration has been ad- duced on the other side. It would appear, therefore, that syphilis pro- foundly modifies the form of the formative dentine palp, while mer- cury exerts a more limited effect, in hindering the proper formation of enamel without otherwise altering the form and disposition of the con- stituent parts of a tooth. The tooth-pulps of two contigu- ous teeth may coalesce at almost any period of their development, there- by, when calcified, forming what is termed a " geminated " tooth. Or, after calcification has gone on for length of time, the cap of dentine may, by violence, be upon the formative pulp. Teeth in which the axis of one a certain displaced portion forms an angle with that of the rest are termed " dilacerated " teeth. I am not aware of this accident having occurred to teeth other than incisors ; in them it is not uncommon. The formative pulp may go astray in its development, and irregular masses of calcified material be added to a tooth in other respects tolerably normal in form. These may be insignificant in size as com- pared with the tooth, or they may greatly preponderate over it; and the tooth may be stunted, or even not recognizable as such. These products of abnormal tooth-pulps are tei*med " Odontomes," and M. Broca has classified them as (1) "Embryoplastic," when arising before the dentine pulp has a membrana eboris and a layer of special enamel-forming cells; (2) Odontoplastic, formed subsequently to the presence of a membrana eboris and layer of enamel cells, but prior to the formation of a cap of calcified dentine; (3) Coronary, while the crown of the tooth is being formed; (4) Radicular, while the root is being formed. M. Broca claims for many tumours of the jaw (especially encysted fibroid tumours) a dental origin ; arguing that, as the dental germ at his " embryoplastic " period contained no enamel cells nor odonto- blasts, there would therefore be no, dentine nor enamel in the tumours. But some little acquaintance with the early tooth-germs of man and other animals inclines me to think that M. Broca's classification might be advantageously simplified by striking off the "embryoplastic" group, as odontoblasts occur so very early in the history of the tooth- * Stedman's popular teclhing powders cotitain a considerable quantity of calomel.