532 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. as to rest above the femoral region, and is fitted there with a pad, so shaped (Fig. 812) as to exercise pressure just below Poupart's liga- ment when the patient flexes the thigh upon" the body, as in walking or sitting. (2.) Another form of femoral truss is furnished with an inflated india-rubber pad. This is admirably suited for old-standing cases; and proves effec- tive, even when the patient is racked with cough or undergoes severe muscular exertion. (3.) The pad is self-adjusting, attached to the spring by a steel blade. This variety is usefal for horse exercise. "When the hernia is of large size, or when it comes down under the fascia lata, it is necessary to use a thigh-belt, with a triangular pad projecting on the inner surface ; forming a soft continuation of the support, to fill the space where the cribriform fascia occupies the saphe- nous opening of the fascia lata. The peculiar form of the femoral pad made by Messrs. Mat- thews (Fig. 813), as designed by Mr. John Wood, answers this purpose even more effectu- ally. The hernia rarely, if ever, undergoes a radi- cal cure, in consequence of wearing a truss; thus differing unfavourably from inguinal hernia, which may occasionally be cured by this method of treatment. Strangulated Hernia.—Bpth Pott and Astley Cooper allude to cir- cumstances which are of vital importance in the treatment of crural hernia; namely, the difficulty often experienced in the reduction of small recently developed enterocele, the rapidly progressive injury to the bowel, and the severity of the accompanying constitutional symp- toms. Mr. Bryant found only thirty-eight cases reducible by taxis, out Fig. 813. of 142 cases of strangulated crural hernia admitted into Guy's Hos- pital. Ten of these cases were hernias of recent development, and strangulated on their first recognized descent. Hence the Surgeon should always search for a hernial tumour, however unsuspected by the patient. Reduction having failed, and symptoms of strangulation being persistent, an operation for the division of the stricture and liberation of the hernial protrusion must be had recourse to, as soon as possible. This rule of early operation is even more imperative in