INJURIES OF LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 349 ghonld be removed to give free motion—say, Half an inch—by means of fl Hev's saw or cbain-saw. ■, i • r Rizzoli's operation has proved snccessful m his own hands, an tonr onses and it has been performed also by Professor Esterle. No ex- ternal incision is made, but section of the jaw—not excision—is accom- plished from the interior of the month, with powerful forceps. Both these operations have proved unsnccessful, owing to reunion of tho divided jaw. THE NECK. CHAPTEE XLIX. INJURIES OF LARYNX AND TRACHEA, PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. Larynx and Trachea.—No department of Surgery demands greater promptitude of action on the part of the practitioner than that_ which relates to the larvnx and trachea; so that, being thrown on his own resources, ready knowledge is here more especially requisite. Inmries of the Larynx sometimes occur, m the form of compression or fracture of the laryngeal cartilages; the former lesion mostly m younff persons, when the cartilages are soft and yielding; the latter iniury more often in persons of advanced age, when these structures have undergone some degree of ossification. At the middle period of life, adults are less liable to either injury, as the cartalages are then self-protected both by their elasticity and resistant strength. Com- pression or fracture of the larynx is attended with more or less contu- sion or bruising, affecting the soft parts around the seat of injury, and also the sub-cellular tissue of the laryngeal mucous membrance. These laryngeal injuries are produced by some mode of direct vio- lence ; as in strangulation or garotting; or from a powerful blow or fall on the box of the larynx. _ p pc The danger of laryngeal compression or fracture is that of suffoca- tion ; but in the one case, there will be less risk of immediate asphyxia, unless the pressure be prolonged ; for the laryngeal cartilages recover their natural shape and position, as soon as the cause is removed. Asphyxia may supervene in consequence of either form of_ injury; owing to extravasation of blood in the laryngeal mucous tissue, or from inflammatory effusion therein as oedema glottidis, or simply as a spasmodic affection induced by irritation. Treatment must have immediate recourse to the measures appro- priate for the prevention or removal of these contingencies, interstitial hsemorrhage, inflammation, and spasm. Hence the application of leeches to the throat, cold lotions or warm fomentations, with some general lowering treatment and anti-spasmodics. In the event of im- pending suffocation, tracheotomy must be performed. Wounds qe the Throat.—These injuries are inflicted commonly