235 SHORT-SIGHT AND LONG-SIGHT. (shown in Fig. 635), which is the expression of a bulging or staphyloma at this part, leading to retraction of the choroid coat, and to the exposure of the inner surface of the sclerotic, over which the retinal vessels, and sometimes a few remaining choroidal vessels, may be seen with great clearness to wander. This staphyloma generally affects the sclerotic surrounding the outer half of the disk. If, v^hilst the disk or a retinal vessel is visible with the ophthalmoscope without the lens, the patient is desired to look inward or outward, the disk or vessel will be seen to travel in the same direction; and if concave lenses of various power be placed behind the mirror, an approximative estimation may be made of the degree of myopia of the patient, by observing what power is required to enable the details of any part of the retina to be distinctly seen. Myopic eyes are liable to disease, especially to intra-ocular heemorrhage, probably owing to the rupture of blood-vessels which have been stretched by the development of the sta- phyloma. Patients thus affected often complain of musc£e or floating bodies before the eyes, which are due to small blood-clots or particles of lymph ; and these are sometimes visible under the ophthalmoscope. Commencing usually a little before puberty, short-sight increases up to about the age of twenty-five, when the form of the eye undergoes no further change. Occasionally, however, it progresses slowly throughout life. In the treatment of myopia, test types or large letters should be placed before the patient, at a distance of twenty or thirty feet; and each eye should be separately tested with concave glasses, commencing with the feeblest, and giving to him the weakest with which he can see distinctly. Concave glasses cause parallel rays of light to diverge; hence, when placed before the eye, they cause the rays to be focussed at a poiat somewhat behind or further back than the point where they would be focussed if the eye were of normal form. It is obvious, how- ever, that, if too strong glasses are used, the accommodation of the patient must be brought into play to bring these divergent rays to a focus, and pain is the invariable result. Myopic patients should avoid all circumstances that tend to congest the head. They should therefore sit upright; wear no tight collars; read books or play music of good Fig. 636.* ' type, in a good light, and held as far away from them as is consistent ' with good vision ; and attend to the bowels. Bijpermetropia—Long-sightedness.—This condition is opposed to myopia, and results from the eye being flattened in the antero- * Showing the form of the eye diagrammatically—n, n', n", being considerod tao retina-in the natural state, or emmetropia, n; in hypermetrnpia, n'; and iu myopia, n". ' l > <