SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 502 ■where the bowel is thin and about to give way. At the same time, the forefinger of the other hand is introduced into the rectum until it rests upon or feels the point of the director, which is then held by the assistant with the other hand. A curved, narrow-bladed bistoury, blunt-pointed or sharp-pointed (Fig. 833), according as the fistula is complete or incomplete, is slid through the external orifice of the fistula, along the groove of the director, until it touches the point of the finger in the rectum (Fig. 834) ; when the fistulous tract is laid open freely into the bowel—the knife dividing at one sweep the skin, sphincter, and bowel, and coming out of the anal aperture, with its point still resting on, and protected by, the point of the finger. It will be observed that the cul-de-sac, above the opening of the bowel, is left undivided in the operation as thus described. Its division is unnecessary, to fulfil the principle of the operation, and might implicate branches of the middle hemorrhoidal artery, producing serious haemorrhage. This terminal portion of the fistula generally closes, with the open tract, now that the sphincter ani is divided and set at rest. If one or more branch sinuses exist, they also may be laid open. An indurated fistula may be slow to heal, even when laid open ; it will be advisable, therefore, to reverse the knife, and draw the blade through the tract into the sound textures, tailing ofE this incision beyond the external orifice,—as the " back-cut " practised by Salmon. The surrounding hardness then soon disappears, and the wound granu- lates readily from the bottom, as I have often noticed in my own practice. Complete fistula, and blind external fistula, are thus operated on. Blind internal fistula presents no external orifice ; a bent probe must, therefore, be passed up through the anus, and diverted into the rectal opening, thence downwards to the integument. When its point is plainly felt projecting, a puncture should be made with a sharp-pointed bistoury, and the operation completed in the usual manner. For horse- shoe-shaped fistula, a one-sided operation would prove ineffectual; the fistulous passage must be slit up throughout its course, from one side of the bowel to the other, and the sphincter divided through the opening. In performing the operation for fistula in ano with the ordinary bistoury, two accidents are liable to happen, as contingent on the con- struction of the instrument—an unprotected knife. Its sharj) edge— so keen, as Pott observes—may pass Fig. 835. out of the fistulous tract; or the point, necessarily shar]j, in the ab- sence of an inner opening, may pass out, instead of penetrating the bowel. Both these accidents are apt to occur in the act of sliding the knife through the fistula ; particularly if the tract be long, narrow, and tortu- ous ; while misdirection of the point may take place, more especially in blind external fistula. Moreover, there is the difficulty occasioned by the additional thickness of the director in the fistulous tract, whenever this instrument is also in- dispensable—i.e., in precisely the above-named conditions, io obviate