635 URINARY DEPOSITS. Chemical Tests.—To determine the whole quantity of oxalic acid— free, or in combination with alkalies and soluble, or with lime, a portion of which oxalate may be precipitated—the urine of twenty-four hours must be collected. This should be evaporated to about one-fourth its Fig. 865. bulk, neutralized with ammonia, be strongly acidulated with acetic acid to keep the phosphates dissolved, and then a solution of chloride of calcium added. The oxalate of lime thus formed is to be separated by filtration, dried, converted into either the carbonate or the sulphate in the usual manner, weighed, and the oxalic acid calculated from the resulting carbonate of sulphate. If there be any reason suppose that the oxalate is mixed with uric acid, then dissolve hydrochloric acid, filter, neutralize with ammonia, and again acidulate with acetic acid (Hassall). Should any oxalate of lime have become deposited before examina- tion, this may be either separated or redissolved. To estimate the diagnostic importance of oxalate of lime in tbe urine, it should be remembered that this state is of very frequent occurrence, and its presence cannot be regarded as signifying a morbid blood-condition, excepting in respect of the quantity secreted. A few minute crystals are quite compatible with health.; but large crystals in large quantity and persisting for a considerable period indicate such morbid condition. to in The following: observations acid urme by Dr. Grolding Bird, respecting the relate to the circumstances under composition of oxalic which it occurs. In rather more than one-third of the cases examined, uric acid or urates existed in large excess, forming the greater bulk of the resulting deposit. In all there existed a greater proportion of urea than in healthy urine of the same density; and in nearly thirty per cent, of the cases, so large a quantity of urea was present, that the fluid crystallized into a solid mass by adding •nitric acid. The urate of ammonia found in the deposits of oxalic acid urine is occasionally tinted with a pink hue. An excess of phosphate frequently accom- panies the oxalate. The presence of sugar in the specimens examined was exceptional. Prout regarded the oxalic acid diathesis as a substitute for that of lithic acid, the former being preceded and followed by the latter. Liebig demonstrated the intimate relation of lithic acid to urea and oxalate of lime, the two latter having been formed artificially from the former; and this conversion of lithic acid was shown by Wohler's experiments to take place in the bodies of animals. Oxalic acid urine—properly so called from the quantity of this acid excreted—is therefore an expression of many morbid conditions. Taking patients indiscriminately in a Hospital, Dr. Bence Jones con- cludes that oxalate of lime is notably present in the urine in nearly one out of three. Diseases of many kinds, and of opposite characters, are apparently conducive to this result: indigestion, especially if attended with flatulence, and in cases also where no indigestion was ever ex-