URINARY DISEASES AND THEIR TREATMENT. 651 the saccharine class of ailments. Of liquids, brandy-and-water, tea, and coffee are safe. The diabetic bill of fare does not allow of much variety, and con- stant self-denial is required to keep within its bounds. Nevertheless, certain indulgences may be employed with impunity ; and, so far as the personal experiences of one diabetic patient in particular affords adequate iixformation for the guidance of others, Mr. Camplin's obser- vations * respecting himself are valuable and encouraging. Genoa maccaroni proved to be one of the best substitutes for the bran-cake. Milk need not be forbidden. Cruciferous vegetables afford many agreeable varieties—cabbage, cauliflowers, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, etc. ; sea-kale and spinach are quite harmless ; onions are allowable, and in most cases turnips. Lettuces agreed when eaten sparingly with oil and vinegar. Tea is preferable to coffee, and with it milk may be taken freely, cream only in small quantity. Cocoa is allowable if prepared from the " nibs," not that which is sold in cakes or powder. Pale French brandy should be taken, but only in measured quantities, say a tablespoonful with water. Wines are better excluded, excepting claret, which is a most suitable beverage. Other hygienic means were very advantageous. Sponging with tepid water, followed by friction, pi'oved highly beneficial; so also sponging with cold salt and water in summer, and an occasional warm bath in the winter. Warm clothing, a leather waistcoat, and gutta- percha soles to the boots in winter, appear equally important. Change of air and occupation were so favourable, that wheaten bread was sub- stituted for the bran-cake during the period of relaxation. A few words respecting medicinal treatment will suffice. Free perspiration affords some relief to the diuresis. Besides, therefore, the sudorific appliances just alluded to, the salts of ammonia are serviceable; the sesquicarbonate is an exception, at least it was so in Mr. Camplin's case. Citrate of ammonia, combined with citrate of iron, was useful. Bitters and alkalies proved very beneficial. Opiates are valuable in some cases as a temporary means of checking the secretion of urine, and allaying irritability of the bladder. Freventive Treatment.—Such also are the preventive measures— diet^etic chiefly, hygienic and medicinal subserviently—by the early and patient employment of which diabetes may be kept in subjection, and for an unlimited period. By their instrumentality Mr. Camplin not only rescued himself from a deplorable state of health, but was pre- served from the ever-threatening recurrence of this disease during a period of no less than fourteen years. Cod-liver oil in large quantities—seven or eight ounces daily—is highly recommended by Dr. Bence Jones, in cases of considerable emaciation.! Albumen in Urine—Treatment of Bright's Disease.—The retention of urea and water, in the blood, with the discharge of albumen in the nrine/;' and subsequently the proportionate exchange of water for albumen in this secretion, while the retention of urea in the blood progressively increases;—these are the changes in the relation of the blood and urine, which are essentially of therapeutic importance. ■Nutriment in its best form—albumen—is incessantly draining away * "Med.-Ohir. Trans.." vol. xxxviii. t "Stomach and Kcnal DiseaBeB." Case p. 122.