SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 86 Fig. 523. thirds of that, hone; only a thin bUcc of the humerus was removed, and the articular head of the radius. Thus, in this joint, the tubercle of the radius was left with its muscular attach- ments, and the periosteum of the ulnar portion of bone excised, whereby its regeneration might take place. After some suppuration, and ap- 4 pai^ently pysemic infection, from which he rallied, the elbow-wound healed, and the shoul- der also, except a sinus leading to a necrosed piece of bone. The annexed figure, from a photograph (Fig. 523), shows the result. The elbow-joint was re-formed by the reproduction of bone so as to leave scarcely any deformity. He can flex and extend the elbow; pronate and supinate the forearm. The hand also is re- gaining its power. In the shoulder, the mo- tions backward and forward are freely exe- cuted by the pectoralis and latissimus dorsi muscles ; although the power of raising the arm from the side is limited, owing chiefly to the destruction of the greater portion of the deltoid muscle. This case, therefore, presents a probably unique illustration of a successful result, after excision for gunshot injury of the elbow and shoulder joints of the same arm ; and the double operation having been performed at the same time. (" Med.-Chu-. Trans., vol. Iv.) Autlior's Collection. (1.) Eoyal Infirmary, Liverpool, 1870. Number of cases, 8 : recoveries, 8 (2.) London Hospital, 1870. Number of cases, 6 : recoveries, 5 ; deaths, L (H.) Koval Free Hospital. Number of cases, 2: recoveries, 2. _ (4.) Eoyal Infirmary, Edinburgh, 1870. Number of cases, 2: recoveries, 2; secondary amputations, 1; deaths, 1. . „ , • i (5.) Great Northern Hospital, 1870. Number of cases, 1: recoveries, 1. (6.) St. Thomas's Hospital; Guy's Hospital; St.Bartholomew s Hospital; West- minster Hospital; St. Mary's Hospital; Charing Cross Hospital; King s College Hospital; Royal Albert Hospital, Devonport; Royal Sea-Bathing Iniirmary, Mai- gate; Chalmers' Hospital, Edinburgh. , , , „ i o^n „r,,i In each of these Hospitals, the period is that of five years, 18 0; and the re- turns were made to me by those Surgeons whose names are severally aflixed m tue previous tables. Excision of the Wrist, for Injury.—A partial excision of the wrist-jomi—the radio-carpal articulation—appears to have been first performed, for injury, by Cooper, of Bungay. " He sawed off the head of the radius, which passed through and made a dismal laceration ot the tendons at the wrist, and the patient found little or no detect in the strength or motion of the joint." Thus reported by Benjamin Gooch, in 1758, this operation was practised also by that burgeon, who succeeded beyond his expectation in cases of a similar nature. At about the same period, M. Bagieu removed the comminuted bones ot the wrist-joiut, crushed by gunshot injury; anchylosis ensued, ana tlio fingers were left so flexible, that the patient, a soldier, aged twenty- five, was able to write and draw, and retained to a very considenxblo extent the shape of the hand. About the year Bilguer excised some two or three inches of the wrist-end of the ulna, m a case ot