SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 232 gradually involves every tissue of the eyeball; results in its complete and permanent disorganization, with total blindness. Acute Glaucoma.—The sight is rapidly lost. The attack of the disease, y^hich is more common in women than in men, is often preceded by certain premonitory symptoms,—the most marked of which are the occurrence of sparks and flashes of light, of luminous wheels, and expanding circles of flame before the eyes; the appearance of coloured haloes round candles or gas-lights; the occurrence of fogs or clouds, either obscuring the field of vision generally or limiting its area, so that only central vision is retained ; pain extending along the course of one or more of the branches of the first or second division of the fifth pair^ of nerves ; headache, rapidly increasing ; presbyopia; increased tension of the globe, and shallowness of the anterior chamber, with sluggish and dilated pupil. The attack commences—usually in the evening—with severe pain in the eyeball, redness of the sclerotic and con- junctiva, and mistiness of sight. The paira soon assumes an acute and neuralgic character, piercing through the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, and radiating even to the second and third divisions. In a few hours, the iris has acquired a slaty disclouration, and the pupil becomes irregular in form, dilated, and quite immovable. In a day or two the cornea loses its brilliancy, the conjunctival epithelium appear- ing minutely granular. The eyeball is singularly tense and of stony hardness; and the slightest pressure aggravates the pain. Sight is lost by this time, possibly within a few hours, and so completely that even a bright light cannot be perceived. One eye only may be attacked, but frequently the other eye follows in a variable period—one, two, or several days. The period of life is usually past middle age ; and some break-down of the general health or mental anxiety seems frequently to have pre- disposed to the attack. Chronic Grlaucoma.—The eye has undergone the same structural changes, only in a more confirmed and conspicuous state. Thus, the tension and stony hardness of the eyeball is greater, and the vascularity of the sclerotic more pronounced ; it being marked with faint dusky patches, and sometimes a slight vascular zone, and traversed by large purple tortuous veins emerging abruptly close to the margin of the cornea. Opacity of the lens is present in many instances; this body has also a full swollen appearance, as if it had undergone maceration, and were almost bursting through its capsule; its colour, moreover, has changed to a greyish or greenish drab, dirty yellow, or dull orange tint. This greenish or glaucous aspect of the lens, appearing as it were a reflex tint from the fundus of the eye, was formerly regarded as essential and peculiar to the disease Glaucoma. The order of sequence of the morbid changes would seem to be— congestion in the retina and choroid, continuing perhaps to efEusion be- tween these two structures. Hence, pressure on the vitreous humour, and bulging forwards of the lens and iris; followed by congestion and inflammation of the iris and cornea, the lens becoming opaque as a result of its impaired nutrition. Sight is lost, certainly as to the perception of objects ; sometimes the retina is even insensible to light. The disease, in its chronic form, is of insidious origin and slow pro- gress ; advancing, with intervals of cessation, during months or years. It occurs in persons beyond middle age, and wlio have a pale, worn appearance.