577 aaSMORRHOIDS, EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL. vessel. Chloroform is scarcely requisite in the operation as thus per- formed,—by cutting through the mucous membrane. The ct/^er-treat- ment is very simple; a full dose of opium the first night to prevent pain and any action of the bowels, and the liability to irritation about the neck of the bladder with spasmodic retention of urine. Hyos- cyamus and camphor mixture will then also prove efficacious. A dose of castor oil may be given on the third or fourth day; and one or two of the ligatures sometimes come away with the evacuation. The whole are passed in about a week; but still the patient should keep his bed for some days longer, to insure the closure and contraction of the mucous surface, before tbe npi'ight posture is resumed. Secondary liiBmorrhage, usually venous, sometimes happens vrhen the ligatures separate, the blood accumulating in the bowel, and the only indication being that the patient experiences a trickling sensation, and becomes faint. On passing tbe finger into the rectum, clots are felt, and expelled. Careful plugging with, compressed wet sponge, powdered witb persulpbate of iron or alum, will effectually stop the loss of blood; the sponge having been securely threaded with a twine ligature in order to withdraw it. This compress is carried up the bowel, guided by the forefinger, to above the source of haemorrhage, say four or five inches, and then pulled down, so as to lock it in position. The plug should not be removed under a week. Cauterization.—This method of treatment is intended as a substi- tute for the ligature of internal piles, in certain forms of these hsemorrhoids. When the tumour is flat and sessile, of a bright-red colour, and easily bleeds, its substance consisting more of small arteries than of dilated veins, a ligature is less readily applied to the base of such a shaped tumour, and cauterization with strong nitric acid is equally effectual in destroying the pile. So also if its mucous covering be granular or ulcerated; or vsdthout any decided hemor- rhoidal tumour, if the rectal mucous membrane be congested and relaxed, with a tendency to bleed; nitric acid proves very beneficial especially in the latter condition. Cauterization, by means of strong nitric acid, was originally recommended by Dr. Houston, of Dublin, followed by Sir W. Fergus- son ; but in England this method of treatment has been particularly advocated by Mr. H. Smith and Mr. H. Lee. The acid is very easily applied. Protrusion of the pile may be caused as for the operation of ligature; or the application made through an anal speculum a tube open on one side, by which the diseased surface can be reached. A glass rod or brush dipped in the acid is rubbed freely over the surface, until it assumes an ash-grey colour, when the part should be dabbed with a piece of lint saturated with prepared chalk and water • the protrusion is then returned into the rectum, or the tube withdrawn! The only precaution should be to avoid touching the surroundino- anal integument, for which purpose it may be well smeared with oil or grease before applying the acid. Relief soon follows a single applica- tion in some cases, and it is unnecessary to confine the patient to bed • so that this might be termed the ready method of treatment as com- pared with ligature. But its permanently curative efficacy may be doubtful. Cure seems to take place by coagulation of the blood within the pile, obliterating it, then the formation of an ulcerated surface by sloughing, which being succeeded by cicatrization and con- VOL. n. 2