191 DISEASES OP THE EYELICS. Tricliiasis may require removal of the eyelashes, with the portion of tarsal margin containing their roots. (6.) Ectropion—eversion of the lids—is the opposite condition to entropion. The appearance of the inner surface of the lids—the con- junctiva—red, swollen, and discharging, will be readily recognized. iEversion arises either from chronic thickening of the palpebral con- junctiva, which presents granular excrescences—the state known as gramilar lids; or, from contraction of the skin, by cicatrization, as after a burn on the cheek. Treatment, here also, must have reference to the cause in operation, and to the resulting deformity. Thickening of the conjunctiva may be reduced by the moderate application of nitrate of silver, or diluted ung. hydrarg. nitratis, diluted ung. hydr. nitrico-oxydi, or diluted ung. zinci oxydi. This failing, a portion of the palpebral conjunctiva must be excised, that the lid may be restored to position by contraction; and it may be necessary to remove also a wedge-shaped piece of the tarsal cartilage. Or a method devised by Dieffenbach may prove more effectual; an incision through the lid down to the conjunctiva, which is drawn out so that the lid resumes its right direction to the globe, when the projecting fold is snipped oif, and the incision closed. Another method suggested by Dieffenbach, when the ectropion is due to the cicatrix of an abscess or burn, consists in making a triangular incision with the base upwards, enclosing the cicatrix, which, is entirely removed; the two sides of the upper horizontal cut are prolonged to such a distance as may seem requisite, and the skin freely separated from the subjacent tissues. (Fig. 611.) The eyelid is then placed in its proper position, and the edges of the wound carefully brought together by sutures, as shown in Fig. 612. In other instances, again, it may Fig. 611.* Fig. 612.t become requisite to perform a plastic operation. One amongst many methods of performing such a procedure is shown in the accompanying figures. (Figs. 613, 614.) In all instances, however, the shape of the flaps must be varied with the position and extent of the cicatrix, and with an intelligent conception of the object of the operation. It'may be accepted as a general rule that as small a portion as possible of the original skin should be removed, or the patient may be left in a worse ' The figure shows the incisions required in Dieffenbach's method of treatiu"- ectropion resulting from cicatrix. onfv^ '^^^^ figure shows the appearance of wound in Dieffenbacli's operation for ectropion, after the sutures have been tied. ^