128 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 589. operation, except that at tlie Hip-joint; yet witli a decided diiference in favour of disease, as compared with injury. As performed for disease, in 106 cases, 26 were fatal, or say 1 in 4 cases; but, for in- jury, in 29 cases, 20 proved fatal, or say 2 in 3, or f of the whole number (Spence). In the American War, the percentage of mortality was 64, after amputation for injury. But the period of the operation, as primary or secondary, makes some dilference in the mortality, and in favour of primary amputation, unless when performed for compound fracture of the femur, instead of for injury to the knee-joint or the leg. Amputation at the Hip-Joint.—This operation, so fatal in its- results, is less formidable in its performance. The patient lying with his buttock on the edge of the table, an assistant supports and governs the limb; another assistant, standing at the pelvis on the side of operation, compresses the artery above the brim of the pelvis, and is ready to take charge of the vessel when divided in the first incision. ^ Or, the risk of hEemoi-rhage may be guarded against, by means of the aortic tourni- quet invented (1860) by Pro- fessor Pancoast, of Phila- delphia, and which is some- times eri'oneously named Lister's compressor of the abdominal aorta. (Fig. 589.) The Surgeon, stand- ing as usual with his left hand towards the distal part of the limb, selects the longest-bladed amputating knife ; introducing it—in the left limb—about mid- way between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the great trochanter,_ he thrusts it directly across the joint, so that its point shall emerge ]ust above the tuberosity or the Fig. 590. ischium (Fig. 590), the scrotum being drawn away and protected by an assistemt. The knife, thus transfixing the root of the thigh, is carried rapidly downwards and forwards to the surface, cutting an anterior and inner flap, about five or six inches in length, and the breadth of the thigh. The assistantj at the pelvis, closing liis hands into the wound from either side, catches the femoral artery in the under surface of this flap, between his fingers lemorai aitt-ij^ u . The limb should now t"£br"°i:^tSa ^tX -iatant. the capsule