SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 218 Of iZJ . unfavourable, by enfeebling tbe supply o± blood necessary for reparative union of the cornea. (2.) Violent cough, of paroxysmal character, perils closure of the wound, and also prolapse of the ms. (3.) Fat and flabby persons have less Separative power than thin and wiry, albeit old, people. (4.) Old age does not contra-mdicate the operation; in one case Mr. Dixon operated on a gentleman of eighty-six, and four years afterwards he still enioved excellent health and good sight. Commonly, however, after seventy the reparative power of the cornea is impaired. (5.) If one eye only is attected with cataract, the other being free or nearly so, the operation should generally be deferred until vision is materially impaired in the other. (6.) If cataract be equally advanced in both eyes, and both appear equally suited for operation, it will generally be preferable to operate on only one eye at a time. Much may be learnt of value with regard to the second, by watching the first operation. (7.) Ex- tremes of hot and cold weather are unfavourable for the operation and more especially sultry weather. ' After-treatment.—The patient having been put to bed, with his shoulders somewhat raised, seclusion and darkening of the room are the circumstances most conducive to recovery. The wound of the cornea, protected by the lids, requires only to be covered with a piece of soft, dry, linen rag, lightly retained by a turn of bandage. The bowels should be kept easily opened, without straining or relaxation ; and everything likely to excite coughing, sneezing, or vomiting should be avoided. A moderate diet may be allowed. In from four to seven days, according to the probable reparative power, the eyelid may be raised, and the corneal wound and iris examined. All goinc on well, the patient may be allowed to move about a little; and at the end of another week, if union be sound, the eye may be opened in a •weak light, and gradually brought into use. Any exposure to a strong light, or cold, or over-use of the eye, must be avoided. A shade should be worn, and a convex glass nsed, but it will be difficult to make the two eyes act in harmony. Inflammation after the operation has been always a great bugbear. But, in a healthy subject, and after a skilful operation, the cornea unites without inflammation, almost as readily as other soft textures. The state of the eyelids and secretion will indicate the supervention of inflammation, and the necessity for any antiphlogistic measures. Very rarely, a fistulous wound results, and proves most trouble- some. The aqueous humour constantly draining away, the anterior chamber becomes obliterated and the iris lies in contact with the cornea. When this state has existed for several years, all useful vision will be lost. (2.) Linear Extraction.—Origin- ally invented by Gibson (1811), Graefe's operation (1855) is pei'- formed as follows :—The pupil being dilated with atropine, a straight ver- tical incision with a narrow knife, like a sharp-pointed tenotome, is of the cornea, passing through it to three Hucti in length. (Fig. G2o.) Fig. 623. made about a the extent of line two on the side and a half or