576 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. buttocks separated by an assistant, one of the tripartite portions of the protrusion is seized with a vulsellum (Pig. 838), double four- pronged forceps, or with the loop-eyed forceps (Fig. 839), and drawn downwards, inclining inwards so as to fairly expose the junction of the anal integument and mucous membrane. At this point, a deep notch or incision is made with a long, straight pair of scissors ; applied just on the mucous-membrane side of the junction, as being far less sensitive, and taking cai-e to cut along the inner side of the rectum and not into the pile. The depth of incision must be such as Fig. 838. Fig. 839. to reach the base of the pile ; and if it be pedunculated, long arterial vessels will probably be seen coursing down to the stalk of the pile. The requisite depth is ascertained by the Surgeon moving about the portion of protrusion with the vulsellum, as he clips deeply with the scissors. Handing the former instrument to an assistant, a ligature of fine whipcord is passed down well into the notch, and carried round the root of the pile, and knotted so as to securely strangle it. Some- times, the base of the protruded portion is too broad to be thus stran- gulated ; then it must be transfixed, by passing a deeply curved neevus- needle, armed with a double ligature, through the base, and each half tied separately. (See Fig. 838.) Other portions of protrusion are liga- tured in the same way. It is, however, unnecessary to include every por- tion of the thickened and prolapsed mucous membrane. An open surface is left of sufficient extent to-prevent any re-descent, as contraction ensues; further removal might induce a strictured condition of the rectum. Any external pile or redundant portion of anal integument may be excised, observing the same precaution as to the extent of such removal. The ends of the ligatures are cut off close to the piles, or one end of each should be left long if hsemori'hage be likely to occur. In either case, the protrusion had better be returned into the rectum, otherwise the pain occasioned subsequently by the constriction of the sphincter will be more than that of the operation. If hemor- rhage occur, the ligature-ends, hanging out of the anus, will enable the Surgeon to draw the parts out again and secure any bleeding