252 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. canal. The angle of demarcation between the edge of the membrana tympani and the walls of the meatus is obliterated, or nearly so, by the pressure of the exudation in the cutaneous tissues. In the chronic form of the disease, there is less swelling of the meatus; here and there are seen macerated spots, often covered with pus, which bleed easily; or brown, offensive crusts, or half-dried secretions. The vessels of the deeper parts and the membrana tympani are observed to be injected. The amount of secretion varies from a moisture scarcely discernible to three or four ounces daily of a yellowish flaid, with an offensive odour, which, changes with seasons and other influences. This dis- charge, when syringed out of the ear, is seen to be milky and flocculent, and may be thus distinguished from that proceeding from the middle ear, which, is ropy and stringy, and does not mix with water. Profuse discharge is usually seen amongst children of the lower classes, living in crowded, ill-ventilated rooms, especially amongst those who are not kept clean. If the otorrhoea continues long, it may lead to serious con- sequences, such as thickening and opacities of the membrana tympani, the formation of polypoid growths, ulceration and perforation of the membrane, and disease of the middle ear or purulent processes in the dura mater and its sinuses. These latter are especially frequent in children, in whom the anatomical conditions favour the transmission of sucli affections from the tympanum to the cranial cavity. Inflammation may be caused by anything which causes congestion or irritation of the meatus ; such as the acute or chronic exanthemata, injuries, the appli- cation of heat or spirits to the meatus, the prolonged use of injections of fluid, cold currents of air or water, the presence and the forcible removal of foreign bodies. It may run its course almost unnoticed, or it may become a serious affection. If the purulent stage has not been reached, it terminates usually in from ten to fourteen days; but where that stage has supervened it lasts, generally, from five to eight weeks. The prognosis in an idiopathic inflammation of the meatus, or one following some not very severe injury, is favourable if it be properly treated ; but the secondary form following the acute exanthemata often results in perforation of the membrane. The treatment is etiological. If there is a foreign body, its removal must be the first step. The meatus should be kept free from purulent accumulations, by frequently syringing the ear with warm water, which also allays the pain and irritation. Should the swelling be very great, scarification of the meatus, or an incision, followed by the use of the vacuum speculum, which will promote a free flow of blood, speedily relieves the pain and tension, and causes a subsidence of the thickened integument. This may be also assisted by keeping up a pressure on the circumference of the canal by charpie gently pressed into the meatus, care being taken that the charpie is frequently removed, and the discharge cleared out of the canal. In cases in which the pam is severe, and the patient is too timid to allow of the abstraction of blood by incision or scarification, it is advisable to apply two or three leechea in front of the tragus. A mode of treatment useful in some cases as a means of relieving pain and of giving exit to any secretion which may have passed towards the mastoid process, is that first brought into notice by Sir William Wilde, of incision over the mastoid process. This must be made down to the bone at a distance of from half to three- quarters of an inch from the auricle, the posterior auricular artery