^'^^ SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Deposits visibly crystalline, and the crystals lozenge-shaped or com- pound, insoluble in acetic acid and ammonia .... Litbic acid. " " »> and the crystals spherical, with or without spicules, soluble by heat . Lithate of soda. (2.) Table for Discovering the Nature of Urinary Deposits by Chemical Iteagents. Deposit white, and soluble by heat Lithates. »» » and insoluble by heat, but soluble in ammonia. Cystine. „ „ and insoluble by heat and ammonia, but soluble in acetic acid .... Earthy phosphates. )) ), and insoluble by heat, ammonia, and acetic acid. Oxalate or oxalurate of lime. „ coloured, and visibly crystalline .... Lithic acid. „ „ and amorphous, but pale, and readily soluble by heat. Lithates. „ „ deeply, amorphous, and slowly soluble by heat. Lithates stained by purpurine. TREATMENT OP URINARY DISEASES, AND DEPOSITS. The rational remedial treatment of any morbid condition is, essen- tially, the removal of the cause or causes in operation; its preventive treatment, their anticipation. Lithic Acid, and Lithates—Treatment.—The pathological origin of lithic acid in excess is mal-assimilation, primary or secondary; or it denotes an excess of animal food over and above the wants of the system, which is accordingly expelled in limine from the blood through the kidneys, without having contributed to the nourishment of the body. Hygienic measures, therefore, are primarily important. A reduced proportion of animal food is obviously the leading curative measure, and active exercise daily to increase the elimination of any excess is equally necessary. No remedial measures are at present known for directly correcting mal-assimilation in respect to lithic acid or other products. The effect of increased bodily exercise may be to increase the destructive meta- morphosis of the highly nitrogenous textures, i.e. muscle, and thus directly increase the production of lithic acid ; but this may also react beneficially in subsequently correcting the mal-assimilation. Lithic acid passing off in the urine as lithate of ammonia is liable to be decomposed by the action of any free acid present in the urine; and lithic acid itself, being insoluble, appears as a deposit of reddish- yellow sand, consisting of crystals, which may aggregate and form a calculus. Hence the administration of alkalies to neutralize the acidity of the urine is indicated, of which bicarbonate of potash is, perhaps, the best for oft-repeated use. Other alkalies employed for this pur- pose are the bicarbonate of soda (as " Vichy water "), the acetates, tartrates, and citrates of soda and potash, phosphates of soda and am- monia, and borates of soda and potash. Conversely, the removal of any source of acidity is also indicated ; but this refers again to hygienic