847 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. resorted to when the mass is considerable; and this is accomplished most readily with scissors curved on the flat. Abscess of the lahium forms, not unfrequently, in consequence of some injury to the part in sexual intercourse. It is most liable to happen soon after marriage, when the parts are as yet unaccustomed to attrition ; and in prostitutes, from the contingencies of promiscuous intercourse. The abscess seems to arise by rupture of one of the veins in the labium ; and when it bursts on the inner side, after the lapse of perhaps only a few days, or is laid open by incision, it discharges a mixture of venous blood and fcetid pus. Cystic Tumours are occasionally met with in the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the external genitals. They occur in two situations ; either about an inch and a half within the vulva, a little below the middle of one or other side of the vagina, and as the result of enlarge- ment of Cowper's glands; or in the cellular texture of the labia, where the cyst attains to a larger size—that of a chestnut or even a small orange, and resulting from the enlargement of a mucous follicle. In both situations, the cysts contain a glairy fluid, perhaps tinged with blood from any slight injury of the part. Diagnosis.—Cysts may be distinguished from abscess by the absence of inflammatory symptoms, or of such symptoms in the history of origin. But a cyst, sometimes becoming the seat of inflammation, is converted into an abscess. The diagnosis will then be most difficult or impossible, unless the patient's own evidence can be trusted as to the previously distinct formation of a cystic swelling. From inguinal hernia descending into the labium, a cyst is distinguished by its incom- pressibility, irreducibility, and the absence of impulse on coughing. Puncture of the swelling may of course be resorted to in any doubtful case, when the possibility of hernia is excluded from the diagnosis. Treatment.—Any such labial or vaginal cyst can usually be oblite- rated by a free incision, and the introduction of a strip of lint to provoke suppurative granulation from the bottom of the cavity. Ex- cision offers a more speedy cure; but the dissection, easy in itself, is somewhat embarrassed by the free haemorrhage from the vascular texture of the labium. This may be arrested by pressure with a com- press and T bandage. Fibrous tumour occasionally forms in the labium, having usually a pyriform shape, and a firm, somewhat elastic consistence; sometimes attaining to a considerable bulk, so as to hang between the thighs. But it is painless, and not prone to ulceration, although its increasino- size demands surgical interference to remove a mechanical inconve^ nience. The diagnosis must be made betwixt this labial fibrous tumour and a similar growth, the peduncle of which proceeds deeply from within the pelvis, but the tumour appears in the labium. Then having defined its base, the tumour may be easily and safely excised; with little loss of blood, as the fibrous texture is only slightly vascular When the growth is sessile, and embedded in the labium, enucleation can sometimes be performed; an incision being made, the tumour is readily shelled out. Fatty tumour of the labium is far more rare and may be distmguished by its soft, inelastic consistence, and smaller'size. But the treatment is similar,—removal by excision. Epfthelial Cancer is not very uncommon in the labia and vagina. It presents the same characters as in other parts. An irre^^ular under-