TUMOURS OF THE HEAD. 183 different kinds of tumour are comprised; some being innocent and some malignant. They all, however, agree in certain particulars, and can hardly be diagnosed from each other, but must be carefully dis- tinguished from other forms of tumour. They are non-congenital, and thus distinguished from naevi and from hernial tumours ; and they perforate the skull, which distinguishes them from aneurism by anastomosis and from ordinary solid tumours. At an early period, a general diagnostic sign is the presence of a tHn crackling parchment- like layer of bone over the tumour. The penetration of any tumour through the skull is made known bv pulsation communicated from the subjacent brain, and by the cere- bral symptoms which pressure on the surface produces; sometimes, also, the margin of the opening in the skull can be felt. The tumour is seldom very prominent, often hardly raised above the surface ot the skull but feels like a soft pulsating spot in the bone. Such pulsating tumours may be single or multiple. According to the activity of their pulsation, some diagnosis may be made between these tumours. Active pulsation will probably denote soft cancer; pulsation communicated from the brain may indicate fibrous or fibro-cellular tumour, bome ot these perforating tumours are not entirely of intra-cranial origin, but spring also from the diploe of the bone; and then the diagnostic character of pulsation becomes very equivocal. The course and termination of these tumours depend entirely on their nature. The innocent tumours are assuredly not necessarily fatal; a fibrous tumour of the skull and dura mater has been known to pro- duce occasional symptoms of compression for more than fifteen years, and yet the patient died at a tolerably advanced age, and of another disease unconnected with that of the skull. No treatment of any operative kind for the removal of these tumours will be warrantable or gQg * effectual. (b.) Congenital Hernial Tumours of the Brain and Membranes.—En- cephalocele and Meningocele are hernial tumours, respectively, of the brain and its membranes, or of the membranes alone, the pro- truding bag being filled with sub- arachnoid fluid ; and botb kinds of tumour result from congenital defi- ciency of the bone in some part of the skull, generally the occiput. (Fig. 608.) The tumour thus formed * Enceplialocele from occiput, and apparently from back of the neck. The tumour contained a portion of the brain, and the entire cerebellum, enclosed in the dura mater and arachnoid membranes ; the size of the whole mass being five inches and a quarter in length, and three and a half transversely, or nearly as large as the child's head. This protrusion had passed through a congenital opening in the occipital bone, two inches and a quarter from before backwards, and one and a quarter across, continuous with the foramen magnum, and the margins of the open- ing corresponding with the lateral sinuses. The occipital bone and its condyloid articulations were otherwise perfect; but immediately above the commencement of the spinal canal there was an expanded osseous cavity, and on each side the jugular foramen containing its vein and nerves. " Med.-Ohir. Trans." vol. xxxix. (John Z. Laurence.)