EXCISION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 59 more desirable tlian tlie sweeping amputation of the metatarsal portion of the foot, including the toes, by Key's operation—in the line of tlie •tarso-metatarsal articulations. The choice of operation must here, again, be determined in each particular case by the kind and extent of disease. • i , • The Toes are not eligible for excision; except at their articulations occasionally, or of the ungual phalangeal bones. Removal of the in- termediate phalanges will scarcely leave a useful toe. With regard to the great toe, its motatarso-phalangeal articulation may occasionally be excised, or the last phalangeal bone removed; thus preserving the ball of the toe for the support of the arch of the foot. But the results of these excisions of the metatarsal bones and phalanges of the toes, or of their articulations, are less successful than in the corresponding bones of the hand; the toes or their contracted portions remaining comparatively useless or inconvenient. Elbow-joint.—This joint appears to be, and certainly in my own experience has been, not unfrequently amenable to treatment without operative interference—in the destructive stage of inflammatory dis- ease, from ulceration of the articular cartilages. The natural cure by anchylosis supervenes more readily, apparently, than in otlier joints; and fibrous union usually occurring, a movable joint and useful limb is the result. The following case, which came under my care, is so good an ex- ample of this mode of cure, that its history seems worthy of notice. Mrs. P , aged forty, states (1857) that in 1840, seventeen years ago, a heavy door slamming, struck her left elbow on the outer side. Some pain and swelling followed, whicb gi-adually subsided. Pain, how- ever, was felt occasionally after using the arm, during the next six years. Then the forearm gradually became bent on the arm, but the limb could be forcibly straightened. In 1855 she had rheumatic fever; the injured joint was first alfected with acute pain and swelling, and other joints subsequently. The swelling of the elbow proceeded to abscess, which broke and discharged matter; leaving seven sinus- openings, of which two in front, and three behind the joint, remained open for the next two years. During ten months of this period, she could not lift her arm to her head, nor feed herself with it. In 1857 the sinuses had all closed, except one which discharged slightly, a little below the head of the radius,—a not uncommon situation of opening in disease of the elbow-joint. The patient's general health remained good; at least, there was no approach to exhaustion. Having regard to the quiescent state of the joint, and the satisfactory state of the constitutional condition, it appeared probable that if suflicieut power of nutrition could be evoked, anchylosis would ensue. The result more than fulfilled my anticipation. After three months' treat- ment, by rest, strapping with the emplastrum ammoniaci cum hydrar- gyro, tonics and diet—my usual course of treatment for curable joint- disease—^fibrous anchylosis had taken place effectually, and there was limited motion in the joint. Improvement gradually continued, and the range of motion increased. In 18G1 the patient could roll paste without pain or inconvenience; she could lift a nine-gallon barrel of beer and set it on "thrall," and she could make a bed, shaking the mattress or feather-bed without affecting the elbow. Weather, or tho cast wind, sometimes gave her slight rheumatic twinges in the joint.