522 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. posure, And the connections between the sac itself and the layers of deep-seated tissues, are not broken down or interfered with; bein^ traversed only by the needle and ligature. ^ Instruments.—The operation, as practised by Mr. Wood, requires certain instruments (Pig. 803) : a, a smaU fascia-knife; h, a stout un- yielding curved needle mounted in a strong handle; c, guarded needle- a piece ot stout copper wire silvered about two feet long, or a stout Jiempen thread of sufficient length well waxed and then soaped- and a compress of boxwood, glass, or porcelain, long and broad enough to Fig. 803. a cover the hernial canal. Wire is usually selected, and the operation is performed in the following manner, under the influence of chloroform to relax the abdominal muscles. The patient lying recumbent with his shoulders well raised, and the pubis and scrotum cleanly shaved, the Surgeon will find it most con- venient to stand on the side of operation, and to invaginate with the forefinger of the right hand on the right side, and vice versa. The hernia having been carefully and completely reduced, an assistant should command by pressure the internal ring, if there be any tendency to protrusion. An incision is then made with the tenotomy-knife, through the skin of the scrotum, over the fundus of the sac,'and in direction obliquely downwards and outwards; the length of this scrotal incision being sufficient to easily admit the point of the forefinger with the needle. If the hernia be a bubonocele, the seat of the scrotal incision should be one and a half inches below the spine of the pubis. The knife is next turned flatwise between the skin and the fascia, and carried subcutaneously around the edges of the incision, so as to detach the one from the other over an area of at least two inches in diameter; or to a wider extent in a large hernia. Next, the knees of the patient should be brought together and bent up to relax the in- guinal structures ; the operator's forefinger is then passed, with the nail backwards, into the scrotal aperture, and made to invaginate the detached fascia into the inguinal canal, invagination being commenced at as low a point as possible, so as to force the finger as much as may be behind the hernial sac between its fundus and the spermatic cord.