SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 182 depression only from destruction, or absence of the outer table of the sknll. Nmvus will resemble an encephalocele, or a sebaceous cyst with cranial perforatioa; the tumour being aifected by the respiratory movements, and when seated in the cranium, as a pulsatile tumour of bone, some cerebral disturbance may be elicited by compression. Ptirplish discolouration of the scalp-integument may also present a closer resemblance to encephalocele than to a perforating cyst-tumour, ■j-he more or less complete disappearance of the tumour under pressure is the chief mark of a vascular or naevoid growth. The question of treatment turns upon that of diagnosis. It will be obviously perilous to remove a congenital sebaceous cyst, which may be in close relation with the brain, unless the Surgeon be driven to thus interfere by the urgency of cerebral symptoms. (2.) The Oranium may be the seat of various tumours, the principal forms of which are four in number: ivory exostosis, situated perhaps near the orbit, or on other parts of the cranium ; fibrous or fibro-cystic tumour ; myeloid tumour ; and cancer. Their leading symptoms, diag- nosis, and treatment are conveniently exhibited in the following tabular view, by Mr. T. Holmes. Tumours of the Skull. Exostosis. Fibions or fibro cystic. Myeloid. Cancer. Leading Symptcms. A small and very hard tumour, growing very slowly, unaccompanied by any symptoms except in very rare cases, wlien it grows from both tables, or in the orbit and displacing the globe. A slowly growing tu- mour, more soft than exos- tosis, and more liable to affect the brain by growing inwaids. Diagnosis. From diseased enlarge- ments of the bone; by the presence of symptoms in the latter, and by their less distinct and circumscribed outline. Treatment. Operative inter- ference is seldom justifiable. From exostosis, as above; Tfo interference from cancerous tumours, is permissible. Life by its less rapid growth, may be prolonged and by the other usual many years, even diagnostic marks ; from after the tumour fibrous tumour of the dura ' has produced pres- mater, the diagnosis is sure on the brain obvious before perforation and cerebral symp- of the skull has taken toms. place, but impossible after wards. These same observations apply to the symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of these forms of tumour; with the exception that their course is more rapid, and that in all other respects they bear a closer resemblance to cancerous disease. Circumscribed pain in the head ; soon followed by the appearance of a tumour, or by softening and pulsation at the seat of pain. The tumour grows rapidly, and soon produces pressure on the brain. Malignant ca- chexia is usually well marked. The skull is usu- ally thickened around the tumour. From innocent tumour; by its more rapid course and by the constitutional symptoms. From hernia cerebri, following absorp- tion of the skull (very rare); by the greater violence of tlie pulsation, the absence of the movement of the brain dependent on respira- tion, and the less uniform consistence of the tumour. From vascular tumour (or aneurism by anastomosis); by tlie cerebral symptoms induced by pressure, and by the signs of cancer. No treatment is possible. (3.) The Brain, and its Memhrancs.—(a.) Fungous Tumours of fJie Dtira Mater.—Originally described by Louis under this general heading.