EADICAL CURE OF INGUINAL HERNIA. 523 and passed tip as high, as possible in tlie canal towards the internal abdominal ring. Hooking the finger well towards the surface, the lower border of the internal oblique muscle will be felt raised upon it, and more distinctly recognized by placing the other hand upon the surface of the groin. By directing the finger inwards, the conjoined tendon, raised with the muscle, will be felt at the thumb side. The needle unarmed, and oiled, is then passed along the same side of the finger, and pushed through the tendon, then obliquely upwards and inwards through the internal pillar of the external ring, till the point is seen to raise the skin of the groin; and this manoeuvre should be carefully preceded and covered by that of the finger. The skin is drawn in the same direction, obliquely upwards and inwards, as far as its attachment wiU allow, and the point of the needle made to emerge. (Fig. 804). One end of the wire is then connected with the eye of the needle, and the instrument withdrawn by a quick jerk, carrying the wire in its course after it, out through the scrotal aperture, the other end of the wire projecting through the puncture above. Directing the invaginating finger behind the external pillar of the ring to opposite the internal ring, as close as possible to Poapart's ligament, in the groove between the spermatic cord and the ligament, the needle carry- ing the ligature is passed along the curve of the finger, and pushed through the aponeurosis of the external oblique at the above point, when the skin is drawn upwards and outwards until the needle can be brought through the puncture before made. A loop of the ligature is then left in the puncture, and the needle withdrawn, carrying the free end. In the operation as more recently practised by Mr. Wood, the needle is disengaged from the wire, when withdrawn from the scrotal aper- ture—after making the puncture through the conjoined tendon; and then it is passed imarmed, in making the second puncture, through the aponeurosis of the external oblique at Poupart's liga- ment. The opposite end of the wire there projecting, is then connected with the •eye of the needle, and drawn through the puncture in the course of the needle, ■ out through the scrotal aperture; and the instrument is again disengaged. Thus, two ends of wire emerge together from the lower or scrotal 1 aperture, after traversing the conjoined tendon and internal pillar ' on the inner side, and Poupart's ligament at the outer side; while ■ the loop connecting them emerges at the upper or groin aperture. ' (Fig. 805.) The sac of the hernia and investing fascia opposite the scrotal i aperture, is then pinched up between the finger and thumb, and the I spermatic cord slipped back, as in the operation for tying the veins in ■ varicocele. The needle is then passed from without inwards and slightly ' upwards in the direction of the incision, across the scrotum, close to I and in front of the spermatic cord ; the needle entering and emerging