2 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. In approaching tbis subject we may just take a retrospective glance at its bistory and time-liououred associations. Hippocrates, in whose writings 2400 years ago so many other surgical aspects of the present age are reflected, distinctly notices the re-section of bones at the joints, —as of the leg, the ankle, the forearm, the wrist. Then, again, we find Celsus and Paulus -^gineta both as explicitly directing the excision of the ends of bone,—the one in compound dislocations, the other in compound fractures with protrusion. But the latter writer refers also to the practice of excision for disease of the joints or of the bones: "When," says he, "the extremity of a bone near a jomt is diseased it is to be sawn off: and often, if the whole of a bone, such as the ulna, radius, tibia, or the like, be diseased, it is to be taken out entire." Thus, then, Excisional Surgery had its origin in that fertile period of the world's history when arts and literature flourished. Subsequently, in the course of those dark and dreary middle ages, when the human mind lay dormant, as in a death, it is scarcely pos- sible to trace a vestige of that which was destined to become a leading feature of modern surgery. Not until towards the close of the last century were the operations of joint-excision fully recognized. in 1781 Park of the Liverpool Hospital, excised the knee-joint, and with a successful result. This was followed by a second successful operation on the knee, in 1789. Contemporaneously, in France, the Moreaus, senior and junior, practised excision of this joint, between the years ] 786 and 1789 ; and then of the elbow-joint, the one Surgeon m 1794, the other in 1797. The efforts of Park and Moreau failed to make any, the slightest, impression on the profession or the public. In September, 1782, Park wrote to Percival Pott, of St. Bartholomew s Hospital, "a few sheets, in which," said he, "I hope to show that in some of the affections of the knee and elbow in which amputation has hitherto been deemed indispensably necessary. Surgery has yet another resource, which, as far as my reading and experience enable me to iud^e, has not yet been attempted by any other practitioner—I mean, the total extirpation of the articulation:' He emphasized his suggestion by underscoring it, as if printed in italics. This announcement, how- ever, seemed in no way to have moved the original mmd of the famous metropolitan Surgeon. On the Continent the memoirs offered by the Moreaus to the French Academy provoked violent opposition and were rejected with disdain by the surgical savans of France. Thus it was that towards the close of their labours the P^«««^^'J ^^^^^^^ Surgery experienced the mortification of knowmg that they had attracted no followers—no successors. . ■, , ^ v r It is unnecessary to pursue this general historical sketch further; those who revived the operations of excision, and subsequent contribu- toi?,\vill be amply noticed in connection with the consideration of the '''^/oLi-S»ci-sio^ in relation to the General Treatment of Joint-Bisease.- In the pathological history or course of inflammatory f certain general indications of Treatment may be recognized, ^liicK n the order of their conservative or preservative character, admit of the Sllow?ng arrangement; and whereby the relative bearmg of Excision vnW become apparent. The Jv^on-operative indications comprise :— (10 Preservation of the Joint, functionally, by restoration of its mobility.