489 STRANGULATED HERNIA. conducted on one and tlie same general principle. Witli persistent symptoms o£ strang'ulation, after apparent or after real reduction, an operation must be resorted to, with the view of reaching the still existing seat of stricture and dividing it. Care must be observed to modify the operative procedure according to the structural conditions of the hernia, as already described; especially in regard to the apparent reduction arising, either from displacement of the sac into the abdomen, or from rupture of the sac externally. Should the bowel remain constricted after its reduction, of course no stricture would be dis- covered by operation. Any temporary continuance of the symptoms of strangulation, due to previous constriction, must not be mistaken for persistence, due only to a persistent cause. Their gradual subsidence or continuance, the case being watched from hour to hour, will probably enable the Surgeon to determine as to the necessity for operative interference. (2.) Operation for Strangulated Hernia.—Herniotomy.—The Taxis having failed to effect reduction, an operation for the removal of the impediment to reduction, by division of the stricture and liberation of the protru.ded viscus, should be resorted to without a moment's delay. The general indication as to the ahsolute necessity and extreme urgency of this operation may be thus stated :—persistent vomiting, and espe- cially of a feculent character, showing the regurgitation of the contents of the small intestine. The taxis mnst be forthwith abandoned ; or, if not previously tried, it should be gently tried only once under the immediate administration of chloroform ; and that attempt failing, any further delay of operation would be attended with hourly increasing peril. According to the results of Mr. Luke's experience, of 69 cases of strangulated hernia operated on within the first forty-eight hours of strangulation, 12 died, or 1 in 5'7; whereas of only 38 cases operated on after more than that period had elapsed, 15 died, or 1 in 2 "5,—showing a fast increasing proportion. This large mortality is due, not to the operation, in itself, but to the state of the hernial contents when operated on. Gangrene will have almost inevitably supervened, and aggravated probably by repeated attempts at manipulative reduction. Two maxims, by Sur- geons of large experience, may serve to impress on the mind the danger of prolonged taxis, and of the delay of operation. Desault observed— " Think favourably of a hernia which has not been handled before opera- tion ;" and Mr. Hey confesses—" I have often had occasion to lament that I performed the operation too late, but never that I had performed it too soon." For even at very early periods—in rare, yet authentic cases—gangrene of the hernial protrusion has been known to follow the symptoms of its strangulation,—in only two hours, in eight hours, in ten, and in twenty-four hours. Whenever, therefore, the taxis has failed, and perhaps vomiting is persistent, the operation must be resorted to at once, under the influence of chloroform,—which will have been already administered in the case of a first and only attempt to accomplish reduction by taxis at the extreme period of urgency. But at any period of strangulation, however advanced, operation is justifiable, and should be tried—says Lawrence—if the patient has strength to go through it; for recovery has sometimes followed under circumstances apparently almost desperate. Modes of Operation.—Two modes of performing the operation are