568 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ment of the heDinorrhoidal veins, around the anus, or within the sphincter at the termination of the rectum. The pathology of haemorrhoids will be understood by reference to the anatomical dis- tribution of these veins. Situated between the muscular coat of the rectum and the thm mucous membrane—in the subcellular texture, the hfemorrhoidal veins are naturally large and tortuous, have no valves, and form a looped plexus around the terminal portion of tlie bowel, just above the sphincter, with branches to the verge of the anus. Hence, these veins are principally submucous, partly subcutaneous. Ihe greater number of them issue in the superior hemorrhoidal vein, and thence, through the inferior mesenteric vein, enter the portal system ; some of the veins, however, issue in the middle hsemorrhoidal vein, and thence, through the internal iliac vein, enter the general venous system.' Hence, the circulation in the heemorrhoidal veins is principally portal, partly systemic. Hsemorrhoidal affections are named distinctively according to their situation. Thus are recognized surgically, HEemorrhoidiS, subcutaneous and external to the sphincter,—around the margin of the anus; or submucous and internal, within the sphincter,—at the termination of the rectum. In the latter situation, this enlargement of the veins, forming internal haemorrhoids, is accompanied with a tendency to descent and protrusion of the overlying mucous membrane, through the sphincter or anal aperture, constituting a form of Prolapsus of the Rectum. Practically considered, it will, therefore, be convenient to describe Internal Hgemorrhoids and this Prolapsus as one disease. The anal cutaneous integument has a similar tendency to relaxation. But the distinctive terms, external and internal Hsemorrhoids, are not always obvious; the one condition merges into the other, owing to the continuity of the hoBmorrhoidal veins. Hence an intermediate variety has sometimes been recognized,—named intero-external Heemorrhoids, situated partly within and partly without the Anus. FatJiologically considered, HEemorrhoids—whether external, in- ternal, or intermediate—are a dilated and varicose condition of the hgemorrhoidal veins; accompanied with more or less relaxation of the overlying mucous or cutaneous integument, of the rectum or verge of the anus, respectively. This state of these veins would, so far, be analogous to that of varicose veins in other parts; as of the spermatic veins in varicocele, or of the saphena vein in varicose veins of the leg. But there is this important peculiarity in HaBmorrhoids: tbeir relation, partly to the general venous system, principally to the portal venous system. And this twofold venous relationship nearly coi'responds to the situation of Piles, as external or internal to the sphincter ani; and hence the significance of the usual designation of these affections of the hEemorrlioidal veins, as thus distinguished. External Haemorrhoids, at first consisting of one or more dilata- tions of the external hemorrhoidal veins at the verge of the anus, undergo certain structural changes. The vein becomes thickened and the blood coagulated, forming a thickened sacculus which encloses a dark-coloured clot. Or, the dilated vein, containing fluid blood, may burst, and the blood being extravasated into the adjoining cellular texture, it becomes really encysted, no communication existing between the cyst and the vein. Another form of external pile has been described, as consisting of a congei*ies of small veins of uniform size,