DIFFICULTIES, AND ACCIDENTS, DURING LITHOTOMY. 693 it can scarcely retract witliin the obturator fascia overlying it; but this vessel is well protected under cover of the ramus of the ischium. Either vessel is best secured by compression; ligature beiug inappli- cable in most cases, as the vessels cannot thus be I'eached. Com- pression is applied most effectually by means of digital pressure, pro- vided the bleeding vessel can be commanded with the finger, and relays of assistants are at hand. In the course of fourteen or twenty- four hours, according to cases related by South and Brodie, continued digital pressure succeeded in permanently stopping haemorrhage from these vessels. The ramus of the bone offers an excellent counter- resistance to the finger. Ligature has been applied to the internal pudie by Sir B. Brodie, and by Dr. Physick, in America; the former Surgeon using a flexible silver needle. Oozing hsemorrhage, of a per- sistent character, may be effectually arrested by plugging the perineal wound. This is precisely the condition in which Liston's gum-elastic tube may be used with advantage, while free vent also will thus be given to the urine. The track of the wound is plugged with dossils, of lint around the tube; or more conveniently, by pieces of sponge in- troduced into a conical bag of oiled silk attached to the tube, as Fig. 887. devised by Mr. Hilton, or the lithotomy tube- constructed by Messrs. Matthews, with syringe for the injection of water, may be used (Fig. 887.) Liston's tube is kept free of coagula by the occasional intro- duction of an oiled feather. Venous hsemorrhage, proceeding chiefly from the prostatic plexus of veins, may be arrested in like manner. Hilton's contrivance has here proved very successful. Sir B. Brodie lost a patient within a few hours after operation, from venous haemorrhage; every effort having been made in vain to arrest it. Betrocedent haemor- rhage, the blood, arterial or venous, passing back into the bladder, sometimes occurs and to an alarming extent. Bloody urine escapes by the wound, but the bladder becomes distended; there is dulness on percussion above the pubes, and faintness ensues. Injections of cold water should be used to wash out the bladder; and ligature or plugging applied, according to the nature and source of the hasmorrhage. (3.) Wound of the bulb is an accident of no serious consequence. This opinion was hold by Mr. Skey, and certainly it would seem to be