EXCISION OF THE SCAPULA. 87 ; iniuiy. In 1800, M. St. Hilaive, o£ Montpellicr, removed the ends of both radius and ulna, for compound dislocation, and with perfect suc- , cess. In 1828, M. Hublier, of Provins, performed the some operation, for similar injury accompanied with rupture of the tendons; and Huguier and Rossi repeated it for gunshot wounds of the wrist. Subsequently, excision was performed in the Crimea. Conditions of Injury appropriate for Excision.—The comparatively few cases recorded, with regard to excision for injury, are insulficient • to estabHsh any general conclusions. But, so far as experience has , extended, and the analogy suggested by other joints, the following forms of injury to the wrist would seem to be proper for some such I operation:— (1.) Compound and comminuted fracture. (2.) Compound dislocation. (.3.) Gunshot wound, comprising either or both these conditions. The complication of injury to the tendons at the wrist does not forbid the operation; but the state of the adjacent vessels and nerves may be more important. Preservation of the hand, even in the most imperfect result for use, is so great a gain over the entire loss of this member, that the chance offered by excision will generally be preferable to primary amputation, at the wrist or in the forearm. The operation and a/ier-treatment must be conducted on the prin- ciples laid down as for disease, modified only by the circumstances of the injury. BesttUs.—Some of the earlier cases have already been noticed. In the Crimea three cases of wrist-injury were submitted to excision, with one fatal result. Partial excision, for compound dislocation of one or more of the carpal bones, has been practised occasionally, and with some success. Thus, Sir A, Cooper removed the scaphoid, and Malgaigne the semi- lunar bone. AutTim-'s Collection. (1.) London Hospital, 1870. Number of cases, 1: recoveries, 1; secondary am- putations, 1; recoveries, 1. (2.) Koyal Infii-mary, Edinburgh, 1870. Number of cases, 1: deaths, 1. (3.) St. Thomas's Hospital; Guy's Hospital; St. Bartholomew's Hospital; King's College Hospital; St. Maiy's Hospital; Westminster Hospital; Charing Cross Hospital; Koyal Free Hospital; Great Northern Hospital; Liverpool Royal Infirmary; Royal Albert Hospital, Devonport; Royal Sea-Bathing Infirmary, Mar- gate ; Chalmers' Hospital, Edinburgh. No cases. In each of these Hospitals, the period is that of five years, 1870; and the returns were made to me by those Sui-geons vphose names are severally affixed in the previous tables. Excision of Bones. Excision of Uppee Jaw and Lower Jaw.—See Diseases of the Jaws. Excision op the Scapula.—Complete Excision of this bone was originally performed by Cumming, in 1808 ; afterwards by Gaetani Bey, 1830; and by Larrey, 1838; each of whom amputated the arm, and then excised the scapula; and more recently by Syme, Jones of Jersey, Cock, Eergusson, Pollock, and MacCormac, all of whom dis- articulated at the shoulder-joint, leaving the arm untouched. The scapula, with the clavicle, have been removed by American Sui"geons;