DISEASES OF THE THYROID GLAND. 381 mouth to the larynx. The tube may be kept free of any obstruction by removing any mucus, collected there, with a feather from time to time. Or, if the double tube be used, the inner one can be readily ■withdrawn, as occasion requires, and having been well cleansed with warm water, is easily re-inserted. The final removal of the tube is determined by the establishment of natural laryngeal respiration. When the tube is withdrawn, the wound heals more or less readily. In chronic laryngeal disease, or if there be any liability to the recur- rence of the trouble, it will often be necessary to retain the tube for an indefinite length of time. A double tube, provided with a pea- valve, should then be worn. The patient is thus enabled to inspire 1 through the tube, and to expire—and thus speak—through the larynx. At night the valve should be dispensed with. From wearing the tube • some irritation and expectoration are not infrequently induced, but ) this generally soon subsides, leaving, perhaps, a thickened or almost cheloid growth around the opening in the neck as the only local ■ result. The removal of any foreign body from the larjmx or trachea must of course be effected before passing in the tube, in either of these opera- • tions, if undertaken for this purpose. The exact situation of any such < substance having been ascertained by passing a probe through the arti- - ficial opening in the windpipe, forceps of suitalale size and shape are : then cautiously inserted and the body extracted. CHAPTER LI. Fig. 722. DISEASES OF THE THYEOID GLAND. THE PAEOTID GLAND. TUMOUES OF THE NECK. Thteoid Gland.—(1.) Beonchocble oe Goitee.—This condition is an enlargement of the thyroid body, ; existing in one of three forms :— i as hjpertrophy of the proper struc- ture of the thyroid, or simple bron- ' chocele; cysts imbedded in the sub- • stance of the gland, containing a : glairy or bloody fluid, and perhaps becoming proliferous, by growths springing from their interior, form- ing C7jstic bronchocele (Fig. 722); or as an enlargement of the thyroid vessels in and around the gland, constituting a vascular swelling, or •pulsaUng bronchocele, and as being ■associated with an unnatural pro- — rhrZ^°''AT^™r'' a^^'^i^ condition, Zcele tL I\ Til known as exophthalmic bron! S f °* eye-balls has been referred to an enlarge- ment of the eye itself, Dr. Stokes attributing the prominence toTn