714 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Irritability of the bladder, remaining for a long time, is a not nn- common sequel of lithotrity, itself successful. This never occurs after lithotomy; the bladder having been relieved of the stone, as the source of irritation, recovers its tone completely. Treatment—Whether after lithotrity or lithotomy, a secondary cal- culus must be removed. Which kind of operation should be repeated —crushing or extraction—must be determined by the conditions already mentioned with regard to the selection of these operative pro- cedures. Secondary lithotomy may be performed through the track of the former wound, care being taken to avoid the rectum, which is somewhat drawn up and adherent to the membranous urethra and prostate; but the perineum may present no condensation of the textures, such as would render the operation more difficult, either in making the incisions or extracting the stone. Even a third operation has been performed on the same patient, and with success. Right lateral lithotomy may be resorted to, as Listen suggested, provided the Surgeon be ambidextrous. The median operation also is generallv an available resource in these cases, the stone probably being of small size. Prostatic, and Urethral, Calculi are more conveniently noticed in connection with Diseases of the Prostate Gland, and of the Urethra. Calculus in the Female.—Stone in the bladder is not of common occurrence in women, though not very rare. In 146 cases of stone operated on at St. Thomas's Hospital, during a period of twenty-three years. South states that 144- were males, and only two females, giving a proportion of 1 female to 72 males. This is greatly below the average. Crosse, at the Norwich Hospital, found the proportion to be 1 female to 19 males. In Prance the average was higher—1 to 22. But in Italy, Civiale finds the average to be 1 to 18 ; which may probably be taken to represent the general average. Coulson puts the proportion, among those who are submitted to operation, at about 1 female to 20 males. The probability is that stone forms more frequently than it is found, in the female bladder. This seems owing to the peculiar ana- tomical conditions of the urethra, which facilitate the escape of a small calculus. The urethra is short, almost straight, of large size, and readily dilatable, without any natural contractions in the canal; and there is no prostate gland at the neck of the bladder. Thence, a stone may form in the bladder, but more easily escape through the urethra. Symptoms.—In addition to the usual symptoms of stone in the male bladder, and the sure sign afforded by sounding, two special symptoms occur in the female. These are, bearing-down pains and pains along the urethra, and incontinence of urine, — a tendency to constant dribbling or wetting. Irritability of the bladder, from any of its various causes, or a vascular urethral tumour, may give rise to similar symptoms ; but sounding will determine the diagnosis. The consequences of persistent calculus in the female are sometimes remarkable; it may be discharged through the vagina, by an ulcera- tive communication through the bladder and the vagina, forming a vesico-vaginal fistula; or the stone may impede the descent of the foetal head in birth, as a rare cause of difficult parturition. I once saw an instance of this kind in the Royal Free Hospital; a woman died after child-birth, and a stone was found in the bladder, the size of a hen's egg, consisting of phosphate incrusted with carbonate of lime.