691 DIFFICULTIES, AND ACCIDENTS, DURING LITHOTOMY. Shape and Size of the Stone.—The sliape of the stone may offer some difficulty to its seizure with the forceps. A round irregular stone, as a mulberry calculus, is grasped less readily than a flattened, smooth stone, which lies easily within the blades of the forceps. Irregular- shaped phosphatic calculi present the greatest difficulty. Both the shape and large size of the stone may offer considerable obstacles to its extraction. Three resources are practicable:—(1) section of the right lobe of the prostate, forming the bilateral section of this body; (2) crushing, split- ting, or drilling and breaking up Fig. 886.* the stone in the bladder—by means of strong lithotomy-for- ceps, cutting forceps, or litho- trites,—thus performing perineal lithotrity; (3) the recto-vesical or the supra-pubic operation of lithotomy. Of these procedures, section of the prostate is most practicable and the safest. It was recommended by Listen, Martineau, Stanley, and Coulson, rather than use undue force in attempting to gradually dilate the ordinary prostatic incision, which would cause bruising or laceration. The forceps still grasping the stone is held fast by an assistant, and the right lobe of the prostate is then incised towards the right tuber ischii, by passing the knife or a blunt- pointed bistoury along the blade of the instrument as a director. In this way, Martineau often enlarged the opening, repeating the incision two or three times. Crushing the stone in the blad- der through the perineal wound, is a more dangerous procedure ; the instrument required must be ■ of some size, and strong. (Fig. • 886.) Its application may be i attended with some injury to the i bladder,which is often firmly con- ' tracted on the stone; and the f rag- ! °^ irritation or centres of secondary calculi, Stl^'l^ '''"fu ''T^'^'f by repeatedly injecting and washing out < the bladder with tepid water. This resource is, as Coulson remarks ' stanTe?''tV^ Hthotrity performed under most unfavourable circum: i nreferablp to ' f supra-pubic operation would be I preierable to crushing, m most cases. Fracture of the stone is apt to happen when the calculus is brittle, * Erichsen's stone-crusher, for large calculi.