SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 234 Snflff ^ . .f'^' ""^^ '^^^^^ ^'^^ succinctness and applied with f T complete exposition wonld require detail, for whicli the student must refer to treatises specially devoted to the diaeases o the eye, and which are unsuited to such a work as the present on account of their rarity. ^ A healthy eye—termed emmetropic—is one in which the structure and arrangement of the refracting media is such, that parallel rays are brought to a focus on the retina when the accommodation of the eve 13 at perfect rest. Any deviation from this condition is termed arne- tropta. If, the accommodation being still at rest, parallel rays are brought to a focus in front of the retina, myojna is present or in other words, the patient is short-sighted ; if behind the retina' hyper- metropia is present, or the patient is long-sighted. (See Fig. 636.) There is yet another error of refraction, termed astigmatism in which parallel rays of light, falling in one meridian of the eye, are brought to a focus sooner than in another. The form of hypermetropia which is associated with flattening of the lens and impairment of accom- •modation, and which is concomitant with advancing age, is termed presbyojna. Myopia.—In myopia, parallel rays of light—that is to say, rays of light proceeding from a distant object—are brought to a focus in front of the retina. The image of any such object is dim and confused, because the rays have already been collected into a focus, and, having crossed, form a circle of diffusion on the retina. A healthy eye is "rendered myopic, when a convex glass is placed in front of it. On the other hand, a myopic person sees near objects with clearness, because the rays of light proceeding from such objects are divergent, and are consequently not brought so soon to a focus. Hence, the higher the degree of myopia, the nearer to the eye does the patient hold an object to see the details distinctly. Myopia is usually hereditary, but may also be acquired. It is far more common in Germany than in England, because in the former country the hereditary predisposition is strong; whilst any tendency to it is maintained by the children being more severely tasked, having books the old English type of which is not so legible as the Roman type in use in England, whilst the school-rooms are lighted with a greater regard to economy. These causes are, however, being i-apidly removed under Grovernment inspection. In myopia (as shown at n", Pig. 636), the globe of the eye, which should be nearly spherical, is elongated in the antero-pos- terior direction. The globe is usually large and prominent; it is firm to the touch. The pupils are large, owing to inertia of the accommodation. On ophthalmoscopic examination, the optic disk sometimes pre- sents the ordinary character, but more frequently is partially sur- rounded by a brilliant white crescent, termed the myopic crescent * This drawing shows the appearance, under the ophthalmoscope, of a posterior Btaphyloma, a couditiou frequently accompanying myopia. Fig. 635.*