DISEASES OF THE BBEAST. 435 General Pathology and Diagnosis of Diseases of the Breast.— The mammaiy gland is subject to the same kind of diseases as other oro-ans • but the physiological relations of this organ give it an almost Rnecially wider range of pathological significance, it being the scene of svmpathetic uterine affections, and of inflammation and morbid growths, 2 perversions of nutrition,—the liability to which varies according to the functional activity or quiescence of the gland. In relation to the influence of external causes, the situation of the breast exposes this organ to cold; or to injury, by the pressure of stays, a blow, or col- ' ^^^^'riie general diagnosis of diseases of the breast should have reference —observes Mr. Birkett—to certain considerations, which may be ex- pressed as follows:—Has the disease, in question, any manifest con- nection with the age of the patient; the stage of development of the •dand; its functional activity or repose; and the social condition of " the patient, as to marriage, etc. ? Does it seem to be associated with any disturbance of the functions of the generative organs? Is it ■ merely a local affection, or more intimately connected with general constitutional dyscrasia ? Is it of inflammatory origin ? Is it trace- , able to a morbid state of the excretory ducts, or of the secreting struc- : ture of the gland ? And, lastly, is the swelling, tumour, or tumefaction r really produced by something growing in the breast,—a new growth, ; infiltrating the tissues of the breast, inflammatory or otherwise ; or - simply a morbid condition of a part or whole of the actual tissue of : the organ,—an excited state of the gland-structure ; in short, is the c disease superadded to the gland, or a morbid state of the gland- ; structure ? It will be observed that this order of inquiry is analytical, and that I it proceeds by the order of exclusion ; both of which methods are most ' valuable in clinical teaching and investigation. But he who has been ! thus trained, will come at last to conduct such inquiry unconsciously, > or to cut it short, by at once associating the leading characters of the ( disease, in his recognition or diagnosis of that disease. Method of Exoumining the Breast.—The following practical directions . —given by the same author—will be found to facilitate the diagnosis < of a morbid lobe of gland-tissue from a new growth. Press the in- • durated part gently between the thumb and fingers, and a tumour is i so distinctly felt that the positive existence of something superadded 1 to the breast is affirmed; but now place the fingers lightly and flatly ■ upon the part over the site of the supposed new growth, pressing : gently against the thorax, and nothing more than the ordinary gland- • tissue is perceptible. On the contrary, if there be a genuine new ' growth, something developed recently within the normal gland, it will be always felt; in whatever manner or in whatever position the patient ' is examined. For perfect accuracy of diagnosis, the breast should be « examined whilst the patient is seated, and also when placed in the I recumbent posture. Inflammation.—^Mastitis.—The earliest change is induration more I or less intense, and involving one or more lobes of the gland. Un- • easiness, rather than pain, is experienced in moving the arm or in the ; act of suckling. The lump, knot, or coring of the milk, as it is termed, is due to congestion of the milk in the part affected. This congestion and induration increase with variable rapidity, and the whole gland