SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 400 its rigidity, are differential symptoms as to the seat of injury. From rheumatisvi, concussion of the cord diifers in the presence of true para- lytic symptoms, motor, sensory, or both, and the localized spinal pain ; the progressive character of the symptoms, and the previous history of the case, as commencing from injury. The concomitant articular inflammation, and state of the urine, in regard to lithic acid and the deposit of lithates, are, on the other hand, symptomatic of rheumatism. Hysteria, as manifested through the spinal cord by hysterical paralysis, may simulate paralysis arising from concussion of the cord. But the history of the case, its progressive character also, and without any complete intermission of the symptoms, are clearly diagnostic; vphile the sex, age, and temperament of the patient, v^'ith the absence of other hysterical symptoms, may further contrast with hysteria,—which commonly occurs in females rather than males, in the young rather than in the middle-aged and old, in those of an excitable and emo- tional disposition rather than in the steady-going, working man of business, and in whom there are no other symptoms of hysterical affection. Terminations, a,nd Prognosis.—Death results from concussion of the spinal cord, in most cases, the issue of which has been known. But the period of the fatal result,—or the probable duration of life,—varies according to the severity of the injury. Severe and direct concussion of the cord, as from a heavy blow on the back, will probably have a speedily fatal termination ; and the more so if accompanied with intra- vertebral hsemorrhage. Indirect, and perhaps severe concussion, as from Railway collision, in most cases, which is commonly followed by paralytic symptoms slowly and progressively developed, terminates fatally in a period varying from two and a half to five years; or per- haps at a much later period,—fifteen or twenty years. When death does not ensue, recovery may take place, more or less completely, ac- cording to the stage of the case after concussion of the cord. The primary, and almost immediate, paralytic symptoms may pass off, and more probably so in proportion to their immediate severity, especially if the patient be young and healthy ; recovery taking place completely and permanently. A period of six months, under treatment, will perhaps suffice to entirely reinstate the health. The secondary and subsequent paralysis, from softening of the cord, consequent on Meningo-myelitis, may terminate in partial recovery; but complete restoration from this structural change is impossible. The Prognosis of concussion of the spinal cord must be regulated by the foregoing considerations. ^ , . . . . ^, , I have entered more fully into the nature of this injury ot the cord, on account of its great practical importance, and as being a subject of frequent Medico-legal inquiry; in not a few cases of which I have been ^°^r?ea/menf.—Rest, absolute rest, is essential to any probability of recovery from spinal concussion or wrench. The patient should keep the recumbent position, or a prone couch may be used, until the para- lytic symptoms have disappeared ; and especially until the limbs have regained the power of voluntary motion, and sensibihty. A prone couch offers the advantages of preventing venous congestion ot the spine, as the result of long-continued recumbency; any tendency to sloughing from pressure over the sacrum and nates, the liability to