748 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Brodie, Liston, Spence, and other Surgeons of large experience as a saier procedure than puncture through the rectum, or above the pubes ihe instrument, having been thrust through t^e obstructin<r portion of the prostate (Fig. 913), is left in the bladder for about fortv-ei^rht hours, to establish a false passage for its re-introduction. Puncture through the rectum, and above the pubes, will severally bo more appropriately considered and described in connection with stricture of the urethra. The tendency to chronic cystitis, as dependent on prostatic enlarge- ment, may be averted; partly by preventing retention, partly by careful regulation of the diet, and the avoidance of exposure to cold or damp, or other causes of any disordered state of the urine, or of deter- mination of blood to the bladder. Remedial treatment is considered in connection with this vesical affection. The maintenance of the general health must be conducted on ordinary principles, chiefly of a hygienic character. Atrophy of the Prostate.—This prostatic condition is sometimes found in old age, and occasionally in early adult life. The prostate gland is but slightly developed in men whose sexual character is not strongly marked, and in some malformations. No special symptoms or treatment are known. Cancer of the Prostate.—Cancer is met with less commonly as a secondary deposit, than as a primary disease of the prostate. The form of cancer is almost always encephaloid, and sometimes it is associated with melanotic deposit; scirrhus seems to be of doubtful occurrence. Age has apparently a certain relation to malignant prostatic disease ; it has been observed only in childhood and advancing age. No authenticated cases, observes Sir H. Thompson, are on record between the ages of eight and forty-one. The symptoms are those of prostatic enlargement; but distinguished by the severity of the pain, and its shooting into the rectum, up to the sacrum, and down the thighs; the oft-recurring and more abundant haemorrhage; and, perhaps, constitutional cachexia. The tumour examined through the rectum, as compai^ed with chronic prostatic enlargement, is of larger size, harder, and perhaps of irregular shape; subsequently becoming softer and fungating. The adjacent lymphatic glands are affected, both lumbar and inguinal; confirming the diag- nosis. The urine has been said to exhibit, under the microscope, characteristic cancer cells; but the resemblance of the epithelial ceUs renders this evidence doubtful. Marked rapidity of the symptoms, however, distinguishes the malignant disease ; its duration from first to last extending not longer than from one and a half to five years in adults, and from three to nine months only in children. The treatment is palliative. Catheterism should be avoided if possible, and then performed with the gentlest touch, not to irritate or injure the part. Anodynes in the form of opium or conium may be administered both by mouth and rectum. Haemorrhage must be treated as explained in connection with hsematuria. The general health and strength will require all the support which can be given • by tonics and a nutritious diet. Cysts.—The substance of the prostate is often beset with numerous small cavities, of an irregular shape, and communicating with the