712 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUROERY. J 7 I J. - , X iffi^ulty can De overcome by chloroform; but the undeveloped condition of the ^enito-urinarv organs before the age of puberty, renders the operation neither an easv nor a safe one. On the other hand, lithotomy is singularly successful. Nevertheless, if lithotrity diminishes the mortality in adults, it should as Mr. Coulson observes, have a still greater influence in reducing the comparative mortality when applied to children—in whom the urinary organs are in a healthy condition—and because the number of deaths in adults, after crushing the stone, is greatly increased by the state of the urinary organs at that period of life. In advanced periods of life and old age, the irritable state of the genito-urinary organs forbids lithotrity. Exceptional cases of successful results have been met with; Segalas having lithotritized fourteen octogenarians, without losino- one; and twenty-seven septuagenarians, with the loss of only two. Of Sir H. Thompson's 184 cases, the mean age was no less than sixty-one years; forty-six were seventy years and upwards; the oldest was eighty-four years; whereas only three were below thirty years, and the youngest was twenty-two years old. Lithotomy, on the other hand, is also very fatal in aged persons, although very successful in children! (3.) The calculus itself has an important influence with relation to lithotrity, more than to lithotomy. A large stone is unfavourable for crushing, owing to the number of fragments in the bladder and the continued discharge of detritus through the urethra, and the necessity for a more repeated performance of the operation. The bladder should be proportionately healthy, a condition not often coexisting with a large stone. From Sir H. Thompson's large experience, it appears that a stone about the size of a date or small chestnut, and corresponding to somewhat less than an ounce in weight, is always suitable for lithotrity; all stones of an ounce weight and upwards being reserved for litho- tomy. A stone of this size and weight may be easily discovered by sounding. Lithotrity has never proved fatal, when the stone was no larger than a small nut; but the rate of mortality rises with the increasing size of the stone, above that of a small chestnut. A hard stone yields sharp, angular fragments, very irritating to the bladder. A la-rge and also hard stone may be said to contra-indicate lithotrity. But a soft or friable stone, even of large size, is not an unfavour- able kind of calculus. Hence, the chemical nature of the calculus has some relation to lithotrity. Certain uric acid calculi which ring ■when struck wdth the sound, and oxalate of lime or mulberry cal- culus, are not readily crushed; whereas phosphatic calculi are easily broken down. The different consistence of the two latter kinds of calculi, in their relation to lithotrity, is, however, a consideration more than counterbalanced by the state of the urinary organs; in the oxalic acid diathesis, these organs being comparatively healthy; in regard to phosphatic calculi, equally unhealthy. The remaining peculiarities connected with stone in the bladder present mechanical difiiculties chiefly, as relating to the selection of the operation—lithotrity or lithotomy. Thus, the irregular shape of a stone offers a difliculty in seizing it with the lithotrite. But similar difficulty is experienced in seizing with the lithotomy-forceps, and there is the additional difliculty of extraction. The sitaatiou of a stone