301 DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. • orri StroTKT curved pins are passed from under the tongue througli >°Tbstance on either side of the frsenum, and emerging on the upper f pp Then the loop of the ecraseur, or of the galvanic wire-cautery, •feast around the tongue, behind the pins, which prevent the noose l-rniino- and guide it through the substance of the organ and along the flnnr of°the niouth. The wire-cautery will traverse this route m a few •Elites - but if the ecraseur be used, the instrument should be worked Iwlv two minutes being allowed between each movement of the handle, and thus the severation is prolonged to a period of from half an hour to an hour or longer. -,. , ,i. i t 4.1, Buccal Operation.—By an incision extending from the angle of the moath to the inner concave angle of the jaw, the base of the tongue is easily reached; then, the tongue having been well drawn forward with a vrdsellum, the base is transfixed by two stout curved pms, one on ( either side of the fraenum and projecting above in front of the epiglottis ; I the ecraseur (Fig. 679), or loop of wire, is readily cast around the base 1 behind the pins; and thus the whole tongue is excised. (Fig. 680.) ' The only bleeding in this operation is from the incision through the « cheek, the facial artery requiring ligature or torsion. This incision is : finally closed with hare-lip pins and twisted sutures; observing to adapt • the line of junction evenly, so that primary union may take place in a few days, and without disfigurement, beyond a slight linear scar across the cheek. In a male patient, the growth of whisker will perhaps hide even that. This buccal operation is connected with the name of Mr. Furneaux Jordan; but I performed the same operation before I had heard of his practice; and in transfixing the tongue I used two curved, sharp-pointed aneurism needles, which I found very efficient and convenient for the purpose of fixing the ecraseur-loop, and guiding * Koyal Free Hosp. (Author.) Same case.