318 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the tooth is subsequently filled, the pulp-canals in the root have to be very carefully filled up, and on the completeness with which this can be done the subsequent success of the operation will largely depend. When a considerable portion of the pulp has been lost by suppura- tion from the exposed surface, the same treatment, viz., its destruction by arsenious acid, will yield the best result. When, however, there is no large exposure, no loss of substance of the pulp, no neuralgia, and no considerable pain, but signs only of slight chronic inflammation or irritation of the pulp, it may be often preserved alive. Dressings of undiluted carbolic acid form the best application, varied sometimes with tannin and with creasote. By means of these the pulp may be brought into a normal condition, and the tooth filled, as if with an accidental exposure of the pulp (see page 316). But when a pulp has been for some little time in a diseased con- dition, it is very apt to give trouble and even to die under the filling; and, with our present knowledge of its treatment, I do not think it worth while to attempt to preserve a pulp alive which has long been painful. Mention has been made above of calcification of the pulp taking place as a protective measure ; but under certain conditions, not thoroughly understood, calcification of the pulp is capable of giving rise to very great pain. This seems especially prone to occur when isolated nodules are formed, or when the pulp calcifies almost en masse, but the new dem tine is not in continuity with the old, it lying loose in the pulp-cavity. Calcification of the pulp may happen in otherwise sound teeth, especially in advanced life, and may be the cause of much neuralgia. It can only be detected by the exclusion of all other causes of pulp irritation, and often cannot be diagnosed till after the extraction of the tooth. On the other hand, loose nodules of calcification are frequently met with in teeth which have never caused the slightest annoyance, so that the conditions under which they do or do not cause irritation remain uncertain; perhaps it may have to do with the accident of nerves being involved or interfered with by the growing hard masses. In advanced life the pulp may undergo a sort of senile degenera- tion ; its vessels become plugged, its odontoblasts disappear, and fatty degeneration occurs in its nerves and other structures. This is a pain- less process, generally associated with the loss of the teeth by absorp- tion of the sockets. By Polypus of tlie pul]p is understood an outgrowth from its exposed surface, which may be as large as a pea, and fill up the whole cavity of decay. It is fibrous in structure, insensitive to touch, and often secretes an offensive discharge. The tooth can seldom be saved by destruction of the pulp, as the nerve-canals of the I'oot are commonly much enlarged, and the exterior of the root also diseased. Alveolar Abscess.—When the tooth-pulp has died, and the whole or any portion of it has remained behind to decompose in the cavity of the tooth, the products of decomposition escape at the apical foramen of the root, and set up violent inflammation ; so that ultimately an abscess forms, the sac of which embraces the point of the root, which lies bare and bathed in pus. It is therefore an inflammation, very violent, though limited, set up by the extrusion of a septic fluid from the end of the root; and the first care of the dentist is to remove every particle of dead nerve, and to