INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITAL OEGANS. then rendered more difficult. If hydrocele coexists, the fluid swelling will be situated behind the testicle. Diseases of the Vesicul2E Seminales. These two oblong, sacculated receptacles for semen lie at the base of the bladder, and converge from behind forwards to the base of the prostate; the vasa deferentia come forwards between them to that gland, and each vas there joins with the opening of the corresponding seminal vesicle, to form the common ejaculatorj ducts. Thus situated and connected, the seminal vesicles are not uncommonly diseased m company with the testicles, or sometimes independently of those organs; and these diseases may induce or aggravate disease of the bladder, and less frequently, of the rectum. The seminal vesicles are subject to inflammatwn, arising inde- pendently or in consequence of gonorrhoea; and they are liable to chronic enlargement, especially of a scrofulous character, and to malignant disease. Diagnosis is much facilitated by the situation of these bodies, as they lie within reach of the finger passed into the rectum. Treatment must be conducted on ordinary principles. CHAPTER LXVII.* INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. A LIMITED notice only can be taken of some of the Diseases which, affecting or specially pertaining to the Female Genital Organs, come under the observation of the general Surgeon; and principally with regard to the operative procedures requisite for their cure. These Diseases relate to—(1) the External Organs, or the Vulva, in its several parts, and the Vagina; with which may be conveniently associated the Perineum; (2) the Vterii,s, and Fallopian Tubes; (3) the Ovaries. The External Organs are also liable to Injuries; in the form of Wounds of the Vulva, or of the Vagina, and Laceration of the Peri- neum ; or the introduction of Foreign Bodies. (1.) External Organs.—Wounds of the Vulva present nothing peculiar, excepting the proneness to copious haemorrhage, owing to the natural vascularity of the labia, nymphge, and clitoris. But the tendency to primary union is remarkable. The treatment, therefore, is by suture and simple dressing. Wounds of the Vagina are even more rare than of the vulva. In Mr. Erichsen's practice, a remarkable case happened; a cedar pencil, five inches long and cut to a point, had been forced up through the posterior wall of the vagina of a young woman into the abdominal cavity, and there it transfixed two coils of the small intestine. After a sojourn of eight months, it was extracted by an incision through, the anterior abdominal wall, midway between the umbilicus and Poupart's * Revised and Enlarged by Robert Barnes, M,D.