196 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Operative removal of the obstraction.—The proceeding which will be appropriate, varies with the seat of obstruction. The punda may be contracted ; and then Mr. Bowman recommends that one of them should be cut across close to the obstruction, and the canaliculus slit np on a fine probe, as in Fig. 615. When the canaliculus is the seat of contraction, the sac may be punctured below the tendo-oculi, and the canal slit up on a fine probe run into it from the sac up to the point of obstruction. The tendo-oculi is easily found as it crosses the sac, by pressing with the.point of the finger on the inner side, and thus putting the tendon on the stretch. Displacement of the puncta, resulting from thickening of the conjunctiva by chronic inflammation, is to be remedied in another way. Mr. Bowman slits up the canal from the punctum to a spot where it can catch the tears before it can overflow the margin of the lid. After either of these operations, the probe must be introduced for several days to prevent closure of the wound. The lachrymal sac and nasal duct are, perhaps, more commonly the seat of obstruction, by thickening of the lining membrane forming stricture. The last-mentioned operation—that of slitting up a canali- culus from the punctum, with a probe-pointed canaliculus knife (Figs. 516, 617)—affords a ready entrance to this portion of the lachry- mal excretory apparatus. The tarsus being put on the stretch, a probe of sufficient thickness is introduced—best by the Surgeon standing behind the patient—and passed along the opened canaliculus, until its Fig. 616.* Fig. 617.t extremity strikes against the inner wall of the sac. Then, keeping it there, the probe is raised to a vertical position, and carefully slid downwards to the seat of stricture; ob- serving to take the direction of the canal, somewhat back- wards and outwards. The in- strument is thus passed into the nasal cavity, and on with- drawing it, the contents of the sac may be pressed down into the nose, or after any tem- porary swelling has been re- duced by fomentation. This proceeding must be repeated from time to time, until a cure is effected; just as in the treat- ment of stricture of the urethra by gradual dilatation. There is this, however, important difference—that, as the lachrymo- nasal duct is ensheathed in a bony canal, thickening of its lining mucous membrane takes place concentrically; any nndue violence, therefore, would only increase the inflammatory thick- ening, instead of lessening the stricture. The introduction of a style through the sac, after slitting up the canaliculus, and allowing it to remain for a short time in the nasal canal, is another mode of treatment. * Weber's probe-pointed knife, for slitting up the canaliculus. , . . .t, t The canaliculus is here shown after division, with a probe inserted into tne nasal duct.