CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. 739 more oi' less rounded or pyriform tumour of prostatic tissue—the en- lai'ged " middle or third lobe " (Fig. 903); and this form is one most commonly met with. Generally, the whole organ more or less partakes in the enlargement. (See Fig. 902.) JsoZa/ecZ tumoui-s of prostatic tissue —myomatous tumours—are also very commonly produced, and found imbedded within the proper structure of the gland, or projecting as outgrowths. Consisting principally of the unstriped muscular tissue, with some portion of imperfect glandular prostatic structure, they form small, rounded bodies, varying in size from a pea to a filbert, and are sometimes completely isolated by a limiting fibrous cyst. These small imbedded tumours seem to have a relation to the containing organ, similar to fibrous tumours in the uterus. As a polypoid outgrowth, it may obstruct the pi-ostatic portion of the urethra. The physical characters of the enlarged prostate are not so definite as its structural condition. In consistence it is usually firmer and harder than natural, as if the organ were enclosed within a tight or stretched envelope; sometimes it feels looser and softer than natural. The formation of numerous fibrous tumours within the prostatic sub- stance will more especially present the former character. In external colour there is no change from the healthy state, unlike malignant enlargement. The weight and size of a simply enlarged prostate are sometimes very remarkable. Taking the average weight of a healthy prostate to be four drachms and three-quarters, the average size is— from base to apex, one inch and a quarter to one inch and a half; trans- versely, one inch and three-quarters, exceeding the antero-posterior diameter by a fourth or fifth; and the greatest thickness five-eighths to seven-eighths of an inch (H. Thompson). Weight is a fair index to size. The enlarged prostate reaches com- monly to eight or twelve drachms, or more than Yig. 904.* double the natural weight. A prostate weighing an ounce will have attained to the size of one inch in thickness from before backwards, and two inches in a transverse direction. Three inches transversely is not uncommon, and even four inches or rather more has been attained. The weight has been known to reach to twelve ounces. Structural alterations in the Prostatic Ure- thra, and Nech of the Bladder.—The conse- quence of prostatic enlargement is obstruction to the passage of urine; and this produces cer- tain structural changes in the vesico-urethral portion of the canal. The i^rostatic urethra undergoes enlargement in its antero-posterior diameter, with diminution of its transverse or lateral diameter; the canal becoming a narrow of being, when distended, of nearly equal diameter in both direc- tions. In some cases, the prostatic urethra is enlarcred laterallv forming an oval cavity (Fig. 904); and which may be^'increased by elongation of the canal. In poinb of length this portion of the * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2513. The prostatic urethra is enlarged in its lateral diameter, as well as being elongated; forming an ovoid cavity cue inch wide when laid open, and two inches long. (Hunterian.) ' passage, instead