77 Fig. 520.* EXCISION OF JOINTS, FOR INJURY,—THK KNEE. TT 1. Pr««t -Nrorthern Hospital; Royal Albert Hospital, Devonport; Boyal Slin?ll-ma^^^^^^^^^^^ peHod, Lh five years, 1870. No cases. The Hand may often be subjected very advantageously to various operations of Excision, both in regard to the Metacarpal Bones, and the Phalangeal Bones of the Tingers. . The conditions of Disease appropriate for Excision are precisely analogous with respect to any such operation' on these bones of the hand, as in the corresponding bones of the f oot. The articular ends, or the whole, of several or of single bones, of the metacarpus or of the fineers may thus be removed; instead of having recourse to amputa- tion of'portions of the hand, which would unnecessarily include sound portions of this precious member. But the choice of either operation of removal, and the plan and performance of the procedure, must be determined by the kind and extent of disease, in each particular case. A very suggestive case of excision does much credit to Mr. Royes Bell of Kin^r's College Hospital. He removed the proximal phalanx of the rio-ht"thumb, with an enchromatous tumour which involved the whole of "this bone. The incision was made along the dorsal aspect ot the phalanx, but without dividing the tendons ; and the result o± this operation was so successful, that the girl could use her thumb m sewing and writing with perfect freedom. (See Lancet, 1872, vol. ii. p. S4>b.) Excision of the Joints, foe Injurt. Excision op the Knee-joint, for Injury. — The operation of knee-joint excision, for injury to the joint, can only be suitable m certain conditions, intermediate between those which admit of cure without any operative interference, and those which should be subjected to amputation of the thigh. Such injuries are more frequently too extensive, both in regard to the joints and sur- rounding soft parts, to admit even of excision, and must be submitted to amputation,—which operation, therefore, for injury, is an alternative procedure. But the constitutional condition will very probably be far more favourable in extensive injury, than in extensive disease,— the former occurring often to persons in high health, and not when the constitutional reserve- power, necessary for the long process of repara- tion after excision, has been reduced by long- continued pain or exhausted by discharge and hectic fever. Hence, this primary consideration with reference to the operation, as for disease, may probably be altogether omitted in selecting excision rather than amputation for injury to the joint. The question of operation arises more commonly in Military than in Civil prac- tice. Condition of Injury appropriate for Excision. — (1.) Lacerated wounds of the joint. Punctured wound may allow of * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., A. 126^. Bones of a knee-joint. A conical ball haf? perforated the apex of the patella, producing a starred fracture. The ball is lodged between the condyles of the femur, which it has split apart. Some now bone has bf'en formed in the shaft of the femur. Presented by W. MacCormac,