295 INJURIES OF THE TONGUE. remedial influence. My own experience does not enable me to confirm *'"^'Bie deformity resulting from cicatrization may require some plastic operation for its rectification. . • ■, _xi . • n Tumours.—Various species of morbid growths form, occasionally, on or in the cheek: fatty and fibrous tumours, as I have seen in three cases; cartilaginous, cystic, and cancerous; or vascular and erectile tumours. i- i. j i. The removal of any such tumour can generally be accomplished by careful excision, having regard to the thickness of the cheek and the relation of the growth to surrounding parts; or the subcutaneous ap- phcation of ligature will probably be available, in the case of an erectile tumour, which I have thus removed from the inner side of the cheek. It is sometimes remarkable how much the cicatrix, after such operation, becomes eifaced in the course of years. Tongue.—Wounds.—Seyeve hemorrhage, principally from the lin- gual artery, is the chief point of practical importance,^ in wounds of the tongue. The lesion itself is apt to occur by an accidental bite of the tongue, and not unfrequently severe laceration is thus occasioned during an epileptic fit. When the organ is protruded, a blow on the lower jaw has been known to nearly sever the tongue; as happened in the case of a patient of mine, to which I have particularly alluded in illustration of the general law of primary adhesion, and a similar extent of lesion has been caused by a blow in a prize-fight. Punctured wounds are liable to happen; as from a blow received on a pipe in the mouth, a thrust from a fork, or from the habit of holding pins between the lips, or accidentally taking a needle into the mouth with food. Insect-stings of the tongue sometimes occur, as from a bee or wasp getting into the mouth during sleep, or in eating fruit. Treatment must first be directed to the arrest of hsemorrhage, which may be eiiected by ligature or torsion of the lingual artery; any oozing of blood being then restrained by means of ice-water held in the mouth and repeatedly renewed. The divided parts should be adjusted with sutures; which, however, speedily separate, and union will probably as speedily take place. It is a remarkable fact, how much the sense of tasfce is gradually restored; showing that the gustatory nerve, when divided, reunites without apparently any interruption in the continuiby of its nerve tissue. The irritation and swelling arising from' an insect- sting may be allayed by rinsing the mouth often with a dilute solution of acetate of ammonia. Foreign Bodies are sometimes thrust into the substance of the tongue, and may even become imbedded and concealed. In the Museum of Gruy's Hospital, there is a specimen (1674) showing a piece of tobacco-pipe, over which the substance of the tongue had closed. Trequent haemorrhage occurred, and ultimately proved fatal. The crown of the second molar tooth was driven into the tongue by a musket-ball, and there remained quiescent for a period of thirty-two years; when an abscess formed and discharged it. In any case, the foreign body should of course be removed, if possible. Congenital Defects.—Tongue-tie signifies a congenital shortening of the fraenum linguae, whereby the apex of the tongue is depressed and restrained; so that it cannot be protruded beyond the incisor teeth, and