81 EXCISION OF THE ANKLE-JOINT, VOU INJURY. tions of the other tarsal bones, were excised; but amputation was performed on tlie foiiij-seventh day. Subsequently, excision of the articular ends of bone was performed by Mr. Cooper, of Bungay, for compound dislocation; the case being referred to, in 1758, by Mr. Benjamin Grooch, of Norwich. Cases in which, to the extent of two, three, and even four inches, the ends of the tibia and fibula were re- moved for injury, are related by Bilguer in 1781. Moreau, in 1792, performed this operation, with success, for compound dislocation, nineteen days after the accident. In 1805, Park alludes to a case of excision of the tibial end for similar injury to the ankle ; and, ac- cording to Mr. Hey, of Leeds, in the same year, Mr. Taylor, of Wake- field, had pei'formed this operation in five cases. Sir Astley Cooper, Listen, and Malgaigne have advocated removal of the ends of the tibia and fibula, in cases of compound dislocation, as being preferable to reduction or amputation. Mr. Jones, of Jersey, performed complete excision—removing the articular ends of bone and the surface of the astragalus, as a secondary operation, twenty-two days after. compound dislocation with fracture of the malleoli, followed by necrosis, profuse suppuration, and constitutional disturbance. In about three months, the patient, having for ten days previously been able to walk some dis- tance without support, ran away from the Hospital, and walked a distance of five miles with the aid of a stick and a crutch. A similar operation for a similar condition of the parts was performed, five months after the injury, by C. W. Klose, in 1854. The patient, sixty years of age, at the end of ten weeks was able to walk out with a crutch. Conditions of Injury appropriate for Excision.—(1.) Compound fracture of the malleoli, with perhaps contusion of the bone. (2.) Compound dislocation of the ankle-joint. In either of these conditions, it is presumed that the ends of bone cannot be reduced, or if reduced, kept in position; and that the integu- ments are not so much lacerated or contused as to slough ; unaccom- panied also with comminution of the other tarsal bones. The operation, and a/^er-treatment, require no special notice. Results.—In twenty-nine cases, reported in Jaeger's tables, only one death occurred. Malgaigne records the unexceptional success of five operations by Taylor, six by Josse, and nine by Sir A. Cooper. Gomfared with Amputation of the Leg, for Injury, the balance is highly favourable to excision. At G-uy's Hospital, the mortality has been 62'5 per cent, in primary, and QQ-Q'o per cent, in secondary ampu- tations; while in the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, Mr. Syme records a mortality of eleven, or 65 per cent., out of thirteen amputa- tions for compound dislocation of the tibia and fibula. As to the State of the Foot, after excision, the resulting condition has usually been anchylosis; but in some cases, reported by Sir A. Cooper, motion was preserved. Author's Collection. (1.) London Hospital, 1870. Number of caijes, 2 : recoveries, 2; secondary am- putations, 1; deaths, 1. (2.) Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, 1870. Number of cases, 2: recoveries, 1: deaths, 1. ' .' • (:'..) Liverpool Royal Infirmary, 1870. Number of cases, 2 : recoveries, 2; secon- dary amputations, 1; recoveries, 1. VOL. II. ^