754 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AIJD SURGERY. tracted gonorrhooal discharge, the general health undergoes a marked depression; so that the individual may be almost known by his haggard, pallid, and listless appearance. Oleet.—Blenorrhrea or gleet must be regarded as the sequel, rather than the concluding stage, of gonorrhoea; for it does not invariably result. The urethral discharge has now become a thin, nearly clear and colourless, or almost watery fluid, oozing in small quantity, or so scanty that it has to be pressed out of the meatus for examination ; no scalding or other inflammatory symptoms remain ; yet this discharge is persistent—lasting for many months or even years. Thus, we speak of an old-standing, gleety urethral discharge. It may be maintained by certain constitutional conditions: a scrofulous, rheumatic, or gouty diathesis; a lymphatic, weakly temperament; or simply by a state of debility. The discharge retains its contagious nature for a long or inde- finite period ; and it is ever liable to be developed into a more viru- lent puriform secretion by slight exciting causes. Sexual intercourse, therefore, is always unsafe, so long as any discharge exists, of whatever kind, or in the smallest oozing of secretion. I have already noticed the diagnosis of gonorrhoea from simple urethritis. No positive distinction can be trusted from the appearance of a urethral discharge, its contagious character, or from its having been produced by contagion. As Ricord truly observes, " Gonorrhoea often arises from intercourse with women who themselves have not the disease ; " and, yet more explicitly, Diday affirms " that from the very fact of a woman having a discharge, no matter what its origin, she is liable to give a discharge to a man." Bumstead bears similar testimony as to the possibly non-specific origin of gonorrhoea in a man from an uncontaminated woman. It is, therefore, of the utmost social import- ance not to overlook the difficulty or impossibility of a diagnosis, as affecting the moral character of any woman, who as a wife or mother would suflier the most wrongful and cruel imputation by a rash or erroneous professional judgment; blighting also the domestic happiness of those with whom she is connected. Nor need I dwell on the further responsibility of the practitioner respecting any such question, when made the subject of Medico-legal inquiry; as perhaps cinminally affecting a chaste woman. In the male sex also, any persistent urethral discharge—whether from gonorrhoea, as gleet, or of non- specific nature—may equally prove contagious to a woman. These considerations give a wider significance to the ca^ises of gonorrhoea than was formerly understood. Gonorrhoeal matter or virus, and occasionally any other discharge—as menstrual fluid or leucorrhoeal matter, or even the ordinary uterine or vaginal secretions—may severally communicate, or give rise to, true gonorrhoea. The distinctioii between gonorrhoea and simple urethritis, in virtue of the sj^ecifa nature of gonorrhoeal pus, is now generally acknowledged to be no longer tenable. The contagious character of gonorrhoeal pus is more virulent, and the symptoms induced are generally more severe; hut, from a causative point of view, the only distinction is, that simple urethritis arises from other causes,—constitutional and local, as well as from any contagious discharge. The following additional practical facts, although not perhaps exclusively characteristic of gonorrhoeal contagion, appear to be well established :—(!.) The disease is not communicable by sexual mter-