SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 226 observer places the back of the mirror close to his own eye, so that he looks through the central aperture, and holds the instrument at . such an angle that the reflected light from it falls upon the patient's pupil. This is always very difficult for a beginner to accomplish ; but a little practice soon makes it easy. The observer will know that he holds the instrument in the right position, and at a proper distance from the eye, by seeing the retina assume a brilliant reddish appear- ance. Still holding the ophthalmoscope in the same position, he takes in the other hand a convex glass, of two inches or two inches and a half focus, and places it at such a distance in front of the cornea as to allow of the retina coming within that focus. (Fig. 631.) If the fundus of the eye be properly illuminated, and the convex glass correctly placed, some of the retinal vessels will now be distinctly seen. The principal points to which special attention should be directed, when an ophthalmoscopic examination is made of the interior of the eye, are the appearances presented by the optic disk or papilla, which may be regarded as a transverse section of the optic nerve; by the vessels of the retina, by the macula or yellow spot, and by the general surface of the retina and choroid, it being remembered that the retina is naturally quite transparent. The transparency of the media and the position of any fixed or floating particles in the several media of the eye—aqueous, lens, and vitreous—may in general be readily ascertained by the employment of the ophthalmoscope; and in practised hands, though this requires much experience, the instrument may be made subservient to the determination of errors of refraction. To bring the optic nerve into view, the patient must direct the eye a little towards the nose, and by turning the eye in various directions every portion of the retina is successively brought under the view of the observer. (Fig. 631.) The necessity for varying the position of the eye constitutes a great objection to the more complicated ophthal- moscopes, which are fixed to a table or other support; and some eyes are so unsteady, and so little under the patient's control, that the observer is obliged to follow their movements by slight changes in the position of the ophthalmoscope, which can only be effected when the instrument is held in the hand. The ordinary ophthalmoscope, when used with the lens, presents an inverted image of the interior of the eye ; the parts being magnified, according to the lens used, from four to eight or nine times their natural size. An erect image of the fundus of an emmetropic eye may, however, be obtained by an emmetropic observer by discarding the lens and looking through the aperture of the mirror alone, the source of light being placed a little more to the side of the patient, and the eye of the observer being approximated to within one or two inches of that of the patient. A large erect image is thus obtained, in which all the more minute changes produced by disease can be advantageously studied. The degree of myopia or of hypermetropia can be approximately determined by noticing whether the details of the fundus can best be seen with a concave glass placed behind the mirror, or with a convex one; and the number of the glass which gives the most distinct image is nearly that which the patient requires to use. Healthy Appearances.—(1.) Betina.—The retina is transparent, and is naturally of a faint purple tint, which can scarcely be said to interfere with the glow of the choroid seen through it. The retiual