SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 676 intervals, and a contracted state of the bladder results. Sometimes, however, it falls into an atonic and dilated condition, with retention of nrine, which by decomposition assumes an ammoniacal and offensive character. In either state, more particularly the latter, chronic cystitis frequently supervenes, subject occasionally to attacks of acute cystitis, with muco-purulent urine. A fasciculated condition of the interior of the bladder usually results, in consequence of an hypertrophied develop- ment of the muscular bands beneath the mucous membrane ; and not nnfrequently between these fasciculi a hernial protrusion of the mucous membrane takes place, forming a pouch or cyst, in which the calculus is apt to lodge as an encysted calculus. An ulcerative and discoloured sloughy state of the mucous membrane sometimes sets in, or a parietal abscess may form, which, opening into the bladder, may receive the stone into its sac, and thus the calculus becomes encysted. Perforation of the bladder has been known to occur, allowing the stone to escape into the peritoneum, or perhaps into the rectum, vagina, or perineum. Pelvic cellulitis sometimes occurs, with diffuse suppuration. These more extreme results have probably been induced by injudicious sounding. The prostate usually becomes in some degree enlarged, whereby a depression or pouch forms behind it, as a frequent receptacle for the stone. The ureters undergo less marked changes; generally they are somewhat dilated and thickened by chronic inflammation, especially at the pelvic portion adjoining the kidney. This organ is the seat of the most serious and ultimately fatal disorganization. Thus, the kidneys may be affected with chronic nephritis ; and sometimes, with the acute form of this disease, terminating in suppuration and a speedily fatal issue by uraemia or pyaemia. Degeneration, however, more commonly follows as the consequence of chronic nephritis, and thence death from albuminuria. This, the ordinary course of stone in the bladder, extends over a longer or shorter period of years ; varying very much according to the kind of calculus, the constitution, and age of the patient. Neverthe- less, the course, although more or less slow, and the symptoms more or less severe, is always progressive in its tendency to a fatal issue. As a set-off to this mode of termination, a spontaneous cure now and then happens, by the expulsion of a small stone through the urethra in the act of straining micturition; and, far more rarely, the stone has been ejected by ulceration of the bladder through the rectum, vagina, or perineum. Operations.—The treatment of Stone in the Bladder consists of the various operative procedures appropriate for the removal of Stone. Three methods have been devised, two of which are established Opera- tions : (1) lithotomy, or the extraction of stone by a cutting operation; (2) the removal of stone mechanically by instruments, without a cutting operation—as by lithotrity or crushing in the bladder and extraction or expulsion of the debris through the urethra, or sometimes by simple dilatation of the urethra; (3) solution of stone, by chemical agents or "lithontriptics," or by the agency of electricity—"electrolysis." Having regard to the desirability of these several methods of pro- cedure, it might seem proper to notice the latter, or removal by solution, first; but in consideration of the far superior efficacy of the other two methods, they will be described almost exclusively; and first lithotomy, as being the operation perhaps most generally applicable.