SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 742 rally may arise from other causes than enlargement of the prostate, there is the physical sign of an enlarged and more or less hardened state of this body, as discovered by passing the forefinger into the rectum, and feeling in the situation of the prostate at the neck of the bladder. Taking these symptoms in order, each may be observed more par- ticularly. Increased frequency of micturition occurs mostly after tbe bladder has become distended during sleep, on rising in the morning, when the desire for relief returns in a few minutes. Uneasiness about the neck of the bladder may induce such expulsive eii'orts as to strain away some of the contents of the bowel during the act of micturition, at length leading to prolapsus and haemorrhoids. Flattened motions and frequent erections of the penis are also not unfrequently concomi- tant symptoms. Inci-eased fx'equency of micturition alone might seem to denote that the bladder cannot contain urine, owing simply to irrita- bility of the organ ; but the diminished force with which the stream is propelled, with the delay before it is established, and the sense of in- complete T-elief after apparently completing the act, are very significant of the state of the bladder. It cannot evacuate the urine, and remains partially, at least, distended. Pathology supplies the true explanation of all these symptoms. The enlarged prostate pi'ojects upwards into the bladder, and urine accumu- lates in the receptacle thus formed behind the prostate. The bladder is never emptied below the level of the prostatic projection. Conse- quently, frequent, straining efforts are made; but the stream issues with less propulsive force, slowly and ineffectually; the suqjlus urine only or overflow passing off, the residual nrine, often in large quantity, still remains below the prostate in the bladder. Even this occasional discharge can occur only when the bladder is sufficiently distended to obey its own contraction, and the straining compression of the ab- dominal muscles, to overcome the resistance offered by the enlarged prostate. An involuntary dribbling of urine takes place occasionally, from over-distension,—the incontinence of adults. Attacks of complete retention may supervene from any cause of temporary prostatic conges- tion ; as by exposure to cold or damp, sexual excitement, or some error in diet; and such an attack is sometimes the first occasion of discover- ing the existence of prostatic enlargement. Complete retention and a distended state of the bladder is indicated by dulness on percussion above the pubes, extending possibly as high as the umbilicus. The slight hgemorrhage, and perhaps muco-purulent urethral discharge, not unfrequently happen under similar circumstances of prostatic conges- tion. Profuse hgemorrhage has been known to occur from transfixing a projecting portion of the prostate, in incautiously or forcibly passing a catheter. The enlarged prostate, as felt on introducing the finger into the rectum, varies in size and consistence. Usually it is that of a large chestnut, or a small compressed orange, and of largest extent trans- versely,—stretching perhaps across the upper surface of the bowel from side to side at the neck of the bladder ; or either lateral lobe may be enlarged singly, the right or the Ipft. The consistence is usually firm and resisting, sometimes soft or unequally hard at different parts of the surface. It may be impossible to ascertain the extent of the enlargement backwards, which is often beyond reach of the finger. So