DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 135 Eczema implies not only an intense form of hypersemia, but likewise a certain amount of serous transudation through the blood-vessels, causing swelling and thickening, often to a considerable degree. The quantity of transudation constitutes the difference between dry eczema and moist eczema; and this difference is quite irrespective of the disease, and merely relates to the more or less lymphatic or humid con- stitution of the individual. A large accumulation of fluid in the tissues, such as we frequently meet with in the lower extremities, and particularly where the venous circulation is languid or obstructed, not only gives rise to a humid eczema, but causes a passive nutrition of the connective tissue and a state of hypertrophy of the skin and subcuta- neous substance which approaches in appearance to the elephant-leg of the Arabians, U. hyj^ertrophicum. In a less degree, thickening and condensation of the integument after eczema is a common sequela, and in these cases the hypertrophic tendency is evinced by a copious formation of epidermic scales, or by an indurated wart-like surface. The most conspicuous of the subjective symptoms of eczema are burning heat and pruritus, the pruritus being often of the intensest possible description. This symptom was expressed by the Fathers of Medicine by the word "psora," which is the Greek designation of eczema; while its dry chronic squamous and pruriginous sequela was denominated "psoriasis." It is worthy of remark that the dry forms of eczema are often more intensely pruriginous than the moist forms; BO are the moist forms in their dry stage, and severe scratching of the surface, or other means which induce exudation, is the most efficient mode of relief. As a simple inflammation of the skin infinitely vari- able in degree, eczema is found to attack every region of the body, and to present a corresponding variety in extent; but it is incapable of breaking through the bounds which are allotted to it by the regular pathology of the skin. It may present few or many of its pathog- nomonic symptoms, in greater or less degree, but there are none which we are not thoroughly prepared to expect, and which are necessarily included in the operations of inflammation; and some- times, especially in chronic cases, manifestations are evinced of a decidedly neurotic character. We have already seen that the special signs of eczema may and do occasionally make their appearance in an independent form. Thus, a fixed eczematous hyperaemia of the skin might easily be set down for an erythema until the concurrent symptoms are investigated; so also a crop of papulffi might be regarded as a lichen; and there is one vesiculo-pustulous affection in particular which is more nearly allied with eczema than with any other pathological form of dermatosis, namely, impetigo. Impetigo is a vesico-pustule developed on an erythematous base, sometimes in patches and sometimes scattered over the surface of the body. It is peculiar to a delicate skin, and espe- cially that of children, and is apt to give rise to crusts around the mouth, which might easily be mistaken for eczema but for the absence of eczema on other regions of the frame. The idiosyncrasies of the skin evinced under the influence of a local irritant are curiously exhibited in the instance of the acarus scabiei. In a lymphatic and sanguineous temperament, as in children, an exudation will appear in the form of vesicles and ichorous excoria- tions ; while in the adult, and in a dry and norvous temperament the