SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY, 628 upper cornu of the saphenous opening. Anteriorly, the sheath forming the canal is overlaid by the upper cornu of the falciform border of the saphenous opening; posteriorly, is the pectineus muscle covered by the fascia lata, its pubic portion. Externally, is the femoral vein and inner septum of the sheath, already noticed ; internally, the sheath alone bounds the canal, owing to the oblique direction upwards of its anterior boundary,—the upper cornu of the falciform process inclining upwards, to join the base of Gimbernat's ligament. The saphenous opening, for the transmission of the saphena vein and superficial lymphatic vessels, is formed by the division of the fascia lata into an iliac and a pubic portion. This opening has an important relation to femoral hernia, in the course of its development. Situated about half an inch below Poiipart's ligament, and rather to the inner side of the middle line of the thigh, it is of an oval form, and extends from the superior cornu downwards to the inferior cornu, or about one inch and a half in length, and its width is about half an inch. The inner border is ill defined, and lies on a plane posterior to the outer margin and the femoral vessels ; the pubic portion of the fascia lata, forming this border, passes upwards underneath the sheath of the vessels, over the subjacent pectineus muscle to the pectineal line of the pubis. The outer margin—falciform border or process of Bums—is anterior to the inner border; it is firmer and well defined, of a semi- lunar or falciform shape, and its concavity looks downwards and inwards. It is connected by fibrous bands to the sheath of the vessels. The upper portion of this firm margin, corresponding to the crural canal, has a direct relation to the development of crural hernia; and the rigidity of the whole falciform border of the saphenous opening, espe- cially in its bearing on the canal, is much affected by the position of the limb; extension and rotation outwards having the effect of tightening the margin, while flexion and rotation inwards relaxes it. At the saphenous opening, the inner aspect of the sheath of the femoral vessels is uncovered; but the opening is closed in by the thin, deep layer of the superficial fascia, which is connected with the margin of the opening, and more firmly with its external or falciform border. This membrane is, however, weakened by the transmission of certain vessels ; at the lower part of the opening, by transmitting the saphena vein, and by numerous small apertures in the fascia,—hence named cribriform, for the passage of the superficial lymphatics. Any resistance which the membrane might otherwise offer to a hernial protrusion is lessened by this defective support. The subjacent portion of the femoral sheath is pierced by the same vessels, and weakened accordingly. When the hernia has escaped through the saphenous opening, and turned up over the crural canal towards the abdomen, its return is much affected by the state of the saphenous opening, and of its upper portion in particular. 8eat of Stricture.—The strangulation of femoral hernia may be situated either at the crural ring, and caused by the base of Giinber- nat's ligament with perhaps the margin of the conjoined tendon, inter- nally, and Poupart's ligament with the band of the deep crural arch, in front; or, at the margin of the saphenous opening, and caused by the falciform border, its upper cornu in particular as it arches oyer the hernia escaping from the crural canal. These are the situations of stricture pointed out both by Hey and Lawrence. Fi'om examination