297 DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. The treatment of prolapsus linguse is unsatisfactory. The protruding portion may be removed by excision, a perilous and even fatal adven- ture ; or by ligature, with the formation of a poisonous slough, for a while, in front of the mouth and nostrils; or by means of the ecraseur —a mode of excision and rapid strangulation, thus avoiding the risk of haemorrhage and slough. In like manner, the galvano-cautery may prove advantageous. Pressure has caused the swelling to partly sub- side, but it has returned again; yet, in slight hypertrophy, it appears from Mr. FairHe Clarke's table of cases that successful results have been obtained by regular compression, coupled with the application of astringent lotions, especially of alum, sulphate of copper, or tannin. Atrophy.—Wasting of the tongue is not a disease of the organ itself, but depends upon paralysis of the hypo-glossal nerves ; the atrophy being simply symptomatic. Mr. Clarke thus represents the pathology of this affection:—Excluding hemiplegic paralysis, atrophy of the tongue is referable, either to disease of the medulla oblongata, involving the hypo-glossal nucleus, or to disease or injury of the hypo- glossal nerve, in its course between the cerebrum and the muscles of the tongue to which it is distributed. Under the first head, the kind of disease may be softening, hsemorrhage, syphilis, or various other causative conditions; the second class comprises morbid growths and injuries. The symptoms differ according to whether the disease is central or intermediate. In the former case, the paralysis and atrophy may affect both halves of the tongue, or be limited to one side. But whether bilateral or unilateral, the affection is not confined to the hypo- glossal nerve ; the branches of the fifth and eighth pairs, and the facial or portio dura of the seventh nerve, are usually implicated. Thus, the hps, soft palate, vocal cords, and other parts participate in common with the tongue ; as manifested by the labio-glosso-laryngeal paralysis, so named by Duchenne. Thence, the functions of articulation, •'ocalization, and deglutition are impaired or lost. When the hypo- jlossal nerve, intermediately, is the seat of lesion, the paralysis and atrophy are unilateral. The result of atrophy is fatty degeneration of the muscular fibres of the tongue,—an irremediable condition. Glossitis.—Acute inflammation of the tongue is attended with sudden enlargement of the organ, which protrudes from the mouth, l^resenting a red mammillated appearance, with profuse salivation; ^vhile the patient can neither speak nor swallow, or scarcely breathe. It is met with rarely as an idiopathic affection, but sometimes as a consequence of over-sahvation from the abuse of mercury, or of scalding or corrosive fluids. Treatment is urgent, and the tension result- ing from infiltration of serum and from congestion can be at once relieved by a free incision on either side of the raphe, along the dorsal aspect of the tongue, thereby avoiding the ranine arteries. But it should be remembered that the oedema may so far involve only one side of the tongue as to cause the lower surface, which swells more readily, to be turned directly upwards; the incision made above thus passint^ mto the tissues naturally inferior, and which would resume this position ^.s the swelling subsides. Tracheotomy may have to be resorted to for The relief of dyspnoea. Saline purgatives will, however, usually com- plete the reduction of the swelling, when they can be swallowed, after le immediate relief afforded by incisions. Astringent and cleansing ■irgles are also useful adjuncts.