17 EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. The first two displacements give the characteristic bow-legged and twisted appearance which, in a greater or less degree, is so common in tlie course of union after knee-joint excision, and both of which proceed appai'ently from muscular action ; while the tendency to projection forwards seems to be produced by a constant sinking of the buttock in bed, thus tilting the lower end of the femur forwards. The sidc-splint specially counteracts all three displacements; the thigh-piece corre- sponding in length, and breadth with the femur, any tendency outwards is prevented; while eversion and forward projection are restrained by the bandage, and the latter displacement by the support of a firm mat- tress, or at least a pillow under tbe buttock. I have had occasion to lengthen this side-splint up to the axilla, so as to counteract a tendency to an angular twist of the trunk to the opposite side in bed; whereby the lower end of the thigb is abducted, with an angular projection out- wards at the knee. But there is no tendency to abutment inwards, and no occasion for the application of an internal splint, as practised by some Surgeons. Sach a i-etentive appliance after knee-joint excision is the precaution of a blind timidity, not that which a due knowledge of the possible displacements would suggest. Other forms of splint or retentive apparatus might be described, as that devised by the late Mr. Price, or the more recent one designed by Dr. P. H. Watson, of Edinburgh; but, without saying one word ad- verse to the employment of these or other splints, I have obtained results, by the use of my own splint, so entirely successful, and in so considerable a number of consecutive cases, as to leave nothing further to be desired. Lastly, the sponge is removed from th.e excision wound, any clot wiped out, the ends of bone finally seen to be in apposition, and tben the flap of integument closed down evenly by points of suture. StrijDS of lint soaked in carbolic acid lotion (one part to forty) are laid over the line of incision, and a broad piece of oil-silk over the whole knee; over all a roller bandage is applied to further exclude the air, and maintain some compression to prevent oozing and secondary haamor- rhage. The patient is removed to a bed close at hand, the limb elevated on pillows to a height of about six inches, and a cradle placed over the excision. After-treatment should be conducted in accordance with the general, principles common to all joint-excisions. But I would urge the import- ance, with reference to the after-treatment of knee-joint excision in particular, of one rule: not to reapply the splints before the end of a month, or six weeks, unless absolutely necessary to correct some im- portant displacement. At that time, having removed the splints and gently raised the limb, I sponge it with a spirit-wash, or with oil of tur- pentine, which both cleanses and fortifies the skin against the tendency to abrasion from pressure. This must be guarded against in reapply- ing the apparatus. And now the strips of plaster, if still necessary, may be applied over the bandage, around the back-splint; thereby pre- venting the irritation consequent on prolonged adhesion to the skin, and the pain caused in removing the plaster from the sensitive skin! At the end of another month's interval—the second montb—on re- moving the splints, I gently test the progress of osseous union (Fig. 487), by placing my finger over the line of junction, and slightly moving the lower end of the leg up and down;' the long leverage rendering VOL. ri. f,