SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURaERY. 336 yical glands, which lie,posterior to the muscle, by two circumstancea • in the one case, the swelling is within the sterno-mastoid, and its mobility varies with the contracted and relaxed state of the muscle; in the other case, the swelling is behind the muscle and is unafEected by its action. This muscular affection is very curable in childhood, by counter- irritant and tonic measures ; while glandular enlargements are obstinate and may be quite incurable. (3.) Enlarged Burses are found in the anterior part of the neck, although rarely. These bursal tumours may be situated in front of the' pomum Adami, or between the posterior surface of the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage, or between the muscles of the tongue. The tumours rise and fall in the movements of deglutition, thus resembling cystic bronchocele ; but their situation is partly distinctive, and puncture will determine the diagnosis, by the nature of the contained fluid. Treatment consists in blisters, puncture, and injection of iodine. (4.) Cysts singly, or aggregated and forming a multilocular tumour, —known as hydrocele of the neck,—may occur in either triangle of the neck, commonly the posterior triangle, or beneath the sterno- mastoid muscle. Such cyst or cysts may be situated superficially, ■usually more deeply; and som'^'times become so numerous as to occupy the whole side of the neck. The contents of the cysts are various; serous or sanguineous fluid of a brownish colour, or sebaceous matter. (Langenbeck.) The characters of the tumour thus produced are always similar; a tense and elastic, round, or somewhat lobulated swelling; varying in situation, prominence, and size. Deglutition and respiration may be more or less impeded. The diagnosis from abscess will be determined by puncture. Treatment.—Tapping and injection with iodine. Suppurative action by means of a seton may be equally cui'ative, but it is more hazardous. Extirpation will scarcely ever be practicable, owing to the situation of these cysts. (5.) Fatty tumour (Liston), fibrous tumour, cartilaginous tumour (Spence), and cancerous tumours, are occasionally met with in the neck ; epithelial cancer, rarely. The removal of these growths must be guided by general principles, having regard to the situation and connections of the growth. CHAPTER LII. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. The Anatomical construction, and the Physiological or functional uses of the several parts, of the Spine or Vertebral column should be remembered, in relation to its Injuries and Diseases. Anatomically, the Spine—so named from the series of spinous pro- cesses presented posteriorly—consists of three elementary portions: