SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 194 The organ itself was not diseased in any way; although carefully examined with the ophthalmoscope, no change could be detected. Menstruation was healthy. Chloroform seemed to me likely to prove the readiest means of subduing the paroxysms in this case; and having administered it on one such occasion which I happened to witness, the pain ceased, but returned as the anaasthetic influence passed off; on renewing it, the pain again subsided, and the patient slept the remainder of the night. Next morning, she was as well as ever; the amaurosis remaining. (14.) Morbid Grotvths or Tumours of the Lids.—The same tumours as in other parts of the body are liable to form in the eyelids, only on a smaller scale. Thus may be enumerated, more particularly, cysts, enlarged sebaceous follicles, warts, na;vi, and cancer, including the epithelial variety. The pathology of these growths, as affecting the lids, scarcely requires any special notice, and particulars of this kind will be found in works on Ophthalmic Surgery. The treatment is not peculiar. Growths situated in the eyelids must be removed, either by careful dissection, or by fine ligature. A naevus having formed in the upper eyelid, about the size of a large pea, I passed a thread underneath the skin, around the base, by means of a fine curved needle; and the skin being thus preserved, no ectropion followed. -,. T i! .1 1 jjice phthirius or crab-lice, as distmct from pediculi ot the scalp sometimes lodge about the roots of the eyelashes. They occasion an intolerable itching, and the lashes present a powdery appearance, clogging the roots with yellowish-grey and brown crusts, so as to resemble ophthalmia tarsi. But the movements of the insects may be detected. • ii -j- White precipitate ointment — ung. hydrarg. ammonio-chlondi— smeared into the roots of the eyelashes, will soon destroy the enemy. Diseases of the Lachrymal Apparatus.—This appendage to the Eye consists of the lachrymal gland, situated within the outer angle of the orbit, which secretes the tears to moisten the eye; the puncta and canaliculi, situated at the inner angle of the eye, which dram away any superfluous fluid into the adjoining lachrymal sac, as a temporary receptacle; and of the lachrymo-nasal canal or duct, which conveys such fluid into the lower meatus of the nose. ^ , ^ . , (1 ) The Lachrymal Gla.nd.—This small almond-shaped body is rarely the seat of iniury or disease. Sheltered, in a recess, within the outer angular process of the frontal bone, the lachrymal gland is not exposed to violence; and it seldom participates in the inflammation of neigh- bouring tissues, nor seems subject to disease commencing m its struc- ture. Inflammation, acute and chronic, and growths, simp e and malignant, are described by some writers, especially foreign authors. The ducts of the lachrymal gland are liable to become obstructed forming a small cyst-like tumour in the upper eyelid—c^acryops—which is plainly seen when the lid is everted. Puncture of the cyst is apt to be followed by a minute fistulous aperture in the skin, through which the secretion continually distils. This dacryops fistulos.is^ may be remedied, by passing a thread through the opening and thickness of the lid bringing it out at the conjunctival surface. A knot having been m'ade at one end, this end is drawn into the fistula, and, hj con- tinned traction of the other end, the knot is made to ulcerate its way