SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 220 Fio. 625* matter remaining, may now he extracted in like manner, hy re- introducing the instrument once or twice ; but not with too much concernJor the removal of every particle, provided no solid nodules remain. The corneal wound must be left free of any lens-matter, clot, or portion of iris. Modifications of Grraefe's scoop-operation, with iridectomy, have been practised. A crescen- tic incision of the cornea may be made, and the lens removed, as in flap-extraction. Then, the iris is seized with forceps, drawn out of the wound, and excised. Or, iridectomy may be first per- formed, and the corneal wound allowed to heal; when, by a second operation, scoop-extrac- tion is performed, mimos iridectomy. Modified Linear Extraction.—This, the latest form of Extraction, to Graef e's Ftr. 627.t according ria626.t method, consists in making a considerable corneal incision, and ex- traction of the lens en- tire by pressure. The lids being well separated by a wire speculum, and the eyeball fixed with forceps, " the knife, which is long and very narrow, is made to pierce the sclerotic at about the distance of a third of a line from its junction with the upper and outer part of the cornea, so that the instrument, as it is thrust in, enters the anterior chamber quite at its re-entering angle. (Fig. 625.) Having got the point clear into the chamber, it is thrust on for a short distance downwards and inwards; the knife is then lowered into a horizontal position, and the point brought out in the sclerotic at a spot opposite to that of its entrance; the edge of the blade, which had been kept upwards, is, lastly, to be turned a little forwards, and the corneal section completed. The wound now lies under the still undivided conjunctiva; this is then cut through with the knife, so as to leave a little flap of the membrane loosely covering the wound." The upper part of the iris is removed with forceps and scissors, to a sufficient^ extent, and the anterior capsule freely lacerated with the cystitome. (Fig. 626.) " The curette is then laid upon the lower part of the cornea, and pressed in a direction upwards and backwards, whereby the upper edge of the * First step of Ornefo's tnnflifipfl linear operation. t Cystitome. X Last step of Graefc's moililicil liiiuiir operation.