SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 340 but it should bo remembered that in Langenbeck's operation, sloughing of the soft parts ia, in severe cases, not rare. In perforations of the hard or soft palate, caused generally by syphilitic ulceration, no operation for their closure can with any con- fidence be recommended, for the loss of tissue is so decided, and the patient's general constitution so depraved, that primary union can hardly be looked for. In these cases an obturator of vulcanite or india-rubber, to close the aperture and render the speech more distinct, is all that can be done. Mechanical Treatment.—As a substitute for any operative pro- cedure to effect the closure of Cleft Palate, an artificial loalale may, perhaps, be constructed, and worn with mnch advantage. Mr. A. ISasmyth brought forward this mode of treatment in 1845, and Mr. C. H. Stearns, at the same time, in America. The palate or obturator is made of various materials,—a gold or ivory plate, caoutchouc, etc. Mr. Sercombe has brought this resource to such perfection, in its adaptation to very extensive clefts, as to render an operation more a matter of choice than of necessity, for the improvement of the voice and performance of deglutition. Obviously, no obturator should be worn continuously, which can obstruct the development of the jaw in childhood, or cause absorption of the natural bone, and thereby enlarge the fissure. Diseases of the Jaws.—Necrosis.—The Jaws are subject to Necrosis from at least three causes : Syphilis, Exanthematous poison, especially that of scarlet fever, and Phosphorus. The latter form of Necrosis occurs among those whose occupation exposes them to the fumes of phosphorus, as in the making of lucifer matches. Dr. Wilks, among British writers, appears to have first drawn attention to this source of necrosis,—in the Gay's Hospital Reports of 1846-47. In Germany, phosphorus-necrosis was recognized as early as 1839, by Lorinser, who published a paper upon the subject in 1845, and was followed by other authors. The mode in which the necrosis is produced, seems to be by the entrance of phosphorus-fumes into the osseous structure of the jaws, through carious teeth or an open socket; the disease never arising when the teeth of the workmen are sound. The liability of the two jaws to this necrosis appears to be about equal, or with a slight pre- ponderance against the lower jaw. Of 52 cases given by German authorities, 21 were of the upper jaw, 25 of the lower jaw ; in 5 both jaws were affected, and 1 case is uncertain. The English statistics gathered by Mr. Salter point to nearly the same conclusions. Excel- lent specimens of the disease, as affecting both jaws, are to be found in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Symptoms.—The same symptoms arise, whatever be the cause of Necrosis; but in that proceeding from phosphorus, they are most marked. Toothache, intermittent at first, becomes continuous ; the teeth loosen, and pus exudes from the sockets. The gums are swollen and tender, and detached more or less from the alveoli. Swelling of the face takes place, to perhaps a considerable extent, so that if only one side of the jaw is affected, a peculiar lop-sided appearance results; one or more fistulous openings also discharge pus, and lead down to bare and dead bone. The general health yields under the constant suffering, loss of food, and the poisonous influence of purulent matter swallowed daily.