CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS OF THE ANUS AND RECTUM. 593 may be necessary. The modus operandi must then be left to the ingenuity of the Surgeon. Sir W. Fergusson extracted a bougie from the rectum of an old gentleman, by means of lithotomy forceps. In another case, which Mr. Liston relates, a pig's tail had been mis- chievously thrust by some students into the rectum of an old woman ; the bristles were in the wrong direction for extraction of the tail, and by sticking into the mucous membrane, it resisted any attempt. At length, a tube was slid up between the bowel and the tail, when the latter was easily withdrawn. In other cases, it has been found neces- sary to divide or break the substance in order to remove it. And in yet other cases, removal has not been accomplished by any manipulation or instrument. Whether the foreign body be extracted or not, in not a few cases death has resulted from violent intestinal inflammation. Congenital Malformations of the Anus and RBCTtm. Imperforate Rectum, as a congenital malformation or deficiency, may exist in two primary conditions : imperforate anus; or, the anus lead- ing into a cul-de-sac, imperforate rectum. The former condition— imperforate anus—presents five varieties: (1) simply membranous obstruction of the anus ; (2) with partial or complete deficiency of the rectum; (3) communication with the neck of the bladder or the urethra, in the male; (4) communication with the vagina, in the female ; (5) external communication, or fistula. The latter condition —imperforate rectum—presents two varieties : (1) membranous ob- struction ; (2) partial or complete deficiency of the rectum. Signs.—When, after birth, there is no evacuation, during the first thirty-six or forty-eight hours, of the usual dai"k-coloured meconium fluid, and Fig. 848.* perhaps sickness coexisting, the medical attendant or the nurse is led to discover that the anus is imperforate; if indeed this deficiency had been overlooked at the time of birth. The condition of the rectum, when obstructed, is almost sure to be undiscovered at birth; but if no hulging in the fundament be perceived after some hours have elapsed—the anus being imperforate—the lower end of the rectum will probably be deficient also. (Pig. 848). Imperforate rectum is distin- guished by the presence of an anal cul-de- sac. The finger can sometimes be introduced into this sac to the extent of its depth,—half an inch to an inch and a half. Those varieties of imperforate anus in which a communication exists with the bladder, the vagina, or externally, admit of less direct recognition during life. But * London Hosp. Mus., A. e. 78. Imperforate anus, and hypertrophied coccyx ; in a child, three days after birth. Mr. McCarthy fonnd that the coccyx reached nearly to the sympliysis pubis; he removed a portion, but as there was no appear- ance of the rectum, colotomy was performed in the left inguinal region, the sig- moid flexure of the colon being opened. The child lived until the sixteenth day after the operation. P.-M. examination showed that the rectum terminates in "a cul-de-sac above the recto-vesical fascia, and therefore out of reach for any safe operation. YOL. II. 2 Q