URINARY DEPOSITS. 639 quantity much increased, to 100 ounces, or even 400 ounces, in twenty- four hours. A crystalline deposit of sugar readily forms as an efflores- cence on any clothing or other surface where the urine may happen to dry. The reaction is acid, but neutral or slightly alkaline if the quantity of sugar be small and the urine fresh. Microscopical Characters.—Crystals in the shape of rhombic plates, si.t-sided, aggregated into roundish granules, or as single plates. (Fig. 869.) Chemical Tests.—The composition of diabetic urine is peculiar in containing a foreign ingredient—glucose, or sugar of the grape, and excreted, possibly, in quantity varying from 1 lb. to 2 lbs. or more, in twenty-four hours; whereby a patient may pass more than his own weight of sugar in the course of a few months. The urine contains, also, usually rather more than less of its ordinary constituents. hiagnostic Value.—Saccharine matter is occasionally present, and as a mere trace,-in healthy urine; but any more obvious quantity, and persisting, is abnormal. To estimate the pathological significance of diabetic urine, there- fore, the constant presence of sugar in any notable quantity, rather than its absolute amount, is the diagnostic sign of consequence. To detect this morbid condition in its infancy—indicating a cor- FiG. 869. Fm. 870. responding blood-condition—certain tests, more delicate even than the production of the rhombic crystals, can be applied with signal success. Yeast or Fermentation Test.—This is easily applied. Add a small quantity of yeast to some of the suspected urine in a saucer ; invert a test-tube filled with this mixture, and stand it in the saucer ; then place the whole in a warm room. If sugar be present, fermentation soon begins, and bubbles of carbonic acid rising in the tube accumulate and depress the fluid. Minute fungoid growths also are developed, which can be seen with the aid of the microscope. Another fungus— Penicilium glaucum (Fig. 870, to left)—the mildew that overspreads decaying vegetable or animal matter, and which may appear in non- saccharine urine, is apt to be mistaken for this " yeast-plant "—Torula cerevisice. (Fig. 870, to right.) Their distinctive microscopic characters were pointed out by Dr. Hassall.* Certain chemical tests are more conclusive. They all depend on * " The Urine in Health and Disease," 1863, pp. 149-151.