STRABISMUS, OR SQUINT. 241 FiGt. 639* the lower edge of the cornea, extending the incision towards the semi- lunar fold. Then he snips through the subconjunctival tissue, and having clearly exposed the sclerotic, slides upwards, between it and the rectus, the hook. (Fig. 638b.) This stjrves to raise the muscle and make its fibres tense, and then, with curved scissoi-s (Fig, 638c), the muscle is carefully cut through, close to its in- sei'tion into the sclerotic. (Fig. 639.) This section of the muscle cannot be completed at a single stroke, but re- quires repeated use of the scissors, so that no fibres may be left undivided. A careful exploration with the blunt hook or director must be made, to detect any undivided fibres, before the spring speculum is finally with- drawn." The advantage of this improved mode of operation is, that it jireyents the deformity arising from retraction of the semUunar fold, %vhich presents a most conspicuous sort of cavity at the inner comer of the eye, almost worse, in appearance, than the leering cast of squint. The instruments required are fewer: no sharp hook, or the multiplicity of curious Httle knives, formerly used and abused. Graefe's operation consists in dividing the conjunctiva a little below the equator of the globe and a few lines from the cornea, almost over the msertion of the tendon; then, exposing the sclerotic just enough to pass a curved blunt hook beneath the tendon, which is drawn well into the conjunctival wound before using the scissors. It is then snipped through close to its sclerotic attachment. The advantage of this method is, that the tendon is brought quite J^T' not likely to escape division, which is one ot the dangers of the subconjunctival operation. Division of each internal rectus is generally requisite, even when inversion of the better eye is comparatively slight. If the squint be wholly confined to one eye, the single operation will be sufficient. In dividing the external rectus, it should be remembered that this muscle IS broader than the internal rectus, and is also inserted farther ijack from the corneal margin. Chloroform, in operations for strabismus, is convenient for the pur- pose of steadying the eye; but it prevents the Surgeon ascertainino- A\iietber the muscle has been effectually divided by requesting the ^ patient to attempt inversion, or eversion, of the eye. I ^/Jer-treatment is very simple. A pad of wet lint may be placed over the eye, and retained by a bandage. In a few hours, when the risk otecchymosis—" black-eye "—has ceased, this dressing may be nSnt object's.' use, especially for * Second step of the operation for strabismus, nook, and about to be divided by the sciasors. The tendon is seen raised on the VOL. II.