INJURIES OF THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. 845 fere with neat apposition of the two sides of the wound. Such a mass may be snipped off. The parts are then brought together by suture. Beginniug at the hindmost part, a moderately curved needle, either mounted on a handle or carried by forceps, is passed deeply into the tissues just behind the level of the anus. It is carried across, well buried beneath the raw surface, to emerge at the opposite side at the same level. A second suture is passed at a distance of three-quarters of an inch in front, also buried beneath the surface. Two or three more sutures are passed so that they are seen on the surface of the wound. The width of the raw surface averages about an inch. Unless the surface be thoroughly pared, so as to form a good thick cushion instead of only a thin cutaneous support, the tendency to prolapsus will continue; and any point of undenuded sarface will probably be followed by the establishment of a fistulous opening. Hsemorrhage is often rather free, and the fissure should not be brought together until this has ceased. Ice is the best styptic. Division of the sphincter ani, on each side of the coccyx, was recommended by Mr. Baker Brown, in order that its action should be paralyzed and all tension of the part be ovei'come. This addition to the operation may be useful, when the laceration passes high up into the recto-vaginal septum. The parts having ceased to bleed, and coming freely together into easy apposi- tion, the quilled sutures are applied at as many points as may be necessary to bring the surfaces into one line of union. For this pur- pose, two pieces of bougie may be used; or two quills, rods of glass, or perforated metal or ivory bars. Fine whipcord is the best material for the sutures. By the thickness of the raw surfaces, and the firm support of the lateral rods, the superficial edges of the fissure are often seen to be everted. In concluding the operation, therefore, it may be advisable to bring the edges together with a few points of ordinary interrupted suture ; using metallic wire in preference to fine silk. But some operators discard the quills, trusting to simple twisting, C. Brooke had the earliest successes with his bead-sutures. J/^e?--treatment is very important. It consists in preventing any intestinal action for eight or nine days, by keeping the patient suffi- ciently under the influence of opium; and averting any dribbling of urine over the raw edges, by retaining a catheter in the bladder, fur- nished with a long india-rubber tube to carry off the urine free of the person. Scrupulous cleanliness of the parts is absolutely necessary. The strength must be maintained by abundant fluid nourishment. The sutures should not be removed for a week ; and rest in the recumbent posture be still continued for two or three weeks longer, lest the recently united parts might yield. The prolonged recumbency incidental to this operation exerts a further beneficial influence in relieving the prolapsus. The turgid and ulcerated os uteri recovers a healthy state, and the relaxed uterine ligaments have time to regain their tension. The results of this operation require further investigation. But the extent of laceration, and sometimes loss of substance, materially affect the issue. When the laceration involves the sphincter ani, and is consequently attended with incontinence of faeces, an operation for the restoration of the perineum will effectually afford the support necessary for control over defaecation. But the lesser evil consequence of such laceration—prolapsus—will be less certainly remedied. It may