655 URINARY CALCULI. calculus forms around a distinct nucleus, this is some foreign body ; either a small clot of blood or mucus derived from the urinary organ in which the calculus originated, or it may be some small foreign body introduced from without into the bladder through the urethra, or by wound or ulceration of the organ. The constituents of a calculus are held together by some kind of cement, which is believed to be animal matter; mucus, fibrin, or fatty matter; or it is said, possibly blood, epithelium, or even pus. The seat of origin in the urinary organs may be either the kidney or the bladder, and thence a calculus is designated renal or vesical; usually it originates in the kidney, and subsequently descends as a small stone into the bladder, where it increases by further concretion. Urinary calculus differs in its physical characters and chemical composition ; thus representing different classes and species of Urinary CalcuH. Physical Characters.—Urinary Calculus varies in point of size, shape, weight, colour, odour, consistence, structure on section, and number. The size is extremely variable; from that of a hemp-seed, pea, nut, or almond, to a cricket-ball and occupying the whole cavity of the thickened bladder. Of such large-sized calculi, one may be seen in the Museum of the Koyal College of Surgeons, and another in the valuable collection of the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital Museum. That in the College collection measures sixteen inches around its long axis, and fourteen inches around its short axis ; it weighs forty-four ounces. An unsuccessful attempt was made by Mr. Cline to remove it from Sir Walter Ogilvie, who died on the tenth day. A nearly similar sized stone was removed by Uytterhceven, of Brussels, by the high operation. Phosphatic calculi usually attain the largest size. The shape also varies remarkably, and principally according to the situation and composition of the stone. Renal calculus is irregular, and often moulded to the form of the calices and pelvis of the kidney; in the ureter, a stone is generally cylindrical; the vesical is more uniformly of a flattened ovoid shape, or globular; while the prostatic is pear- shaped or singularly faceted. In relation to composition; uric acid and urate of ammonia calculi are usually smooth and regular; the oxalates tuberculated like a mulberry,—hence the common name of this calculus ; the phosphatic may be smooth and regular, or irregu- larly contorted. Many other forms are met with, which being readily recognized, need not be specified. The weight depends more on the composition than the size of the stone; the phosphatic being very hght, the oxalates very heavy, and uric acid or urates between the two. ihe average weight is an ounce; bat extremes have been met with—in a stone of ten grains taken from a boy ; another of nearly six ounces removed by Sir A. Cooper; and another of thirty-two ounces in the Museum of Trinity College, Cambridge. Of heavy calculi not re- moved, Deschampg saw one that weighed fifty-one ounces; and Morand one weighing six pounds—the heaviest on record. The colour of a calculus represents only the chemical nature of the surface or external crust ot deposit; the interior is often very different. A white surface signifies a phosphatic crust; a cinder-grey, that of urate of ammonia • a yellow pa e brown, or brown, the uric acid; cinnamon-brown the mic or xanthic oxide ; a mahogany brown, brownish or blackish green the oxalate of lime; a grey-greenish or slate colour, the cystic Sxide