FBACTURE OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL. 1G3 The production of fracture by indirect violence, at the opposite part to the part struck, is designated fracture by contre-coiip or counter- stroke; the cranium yielding laterally, and giving way at the oppo- site point of resistance or impulsion. And such was long thought to be the mode in which fracture was produced at the base of the skull. But more recent observations, and particularly Dr. Aran's experi- ments, have shown that generally these fractures begin, not at the base, but start from the part of the vault struck, and then stretch round into the base. In the front of the vault, such fracture thus leads to fracture of the anterior fossa; in the middle or vertex of the head, to fracture of the middle fossa; and at the back of the head, to fracture of the posterior fossa,—in each situation of fracture, a line leading from the corresponding part of the vault. Fracture of the base of the skull by contre-coup would therefore seem to be of very rare occurrence. Guthrie agrees with other modern Surgeons in . discrediting the production of counter-fracture. Direct violence is, . comparatively, very rarely the cause of fracture in any portion of the base. But, at certain parts, the bones are thin and brittle, readily • yielding to any force directly applied. Such are the orbits, the nos- • trils, and the occipital fossae. Sharp-pointed instruments, as scissors, I or a tobacco-pipe, may penetrate the cranial cavity in these situations, ! and also injure the brain. The condyle of the lower jaw has even been I driven into the middle fossa of the base. Occasionally, gunshot injury i is a direct cause, as when a pistol is fired into the mouth with suicidal i intent. The accompanying lesions, produced by indirect or direct violence, ! arise from its extension to the vessels at the base of the brain, to the 1 membranes, and brain, or cranial nerves. Hence, extravasation of 1 blood, the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid, or even of bi-ain-substance, : and injury to the nerves emerging from the skull. Terminations.—(1.) Fracture of the base—the more common form ( of fractures of the skull—is very frequently fatal. According to the ] post-mortem examinations made by Mr. John Adams in a large number rof cases, it may be inferred that, of all fatal injuries to the skull, those ( of fractured base constitute about 80 per cent. (2.) In the event of 1 recovery, no union may have taken place, after months or even years ; (or union partly by dense fibrous tissue with a thin layer of inlaid 1 bone ; or bony union, and throughout the whole line of fracture. In j some of the latter cases, porous bone has been found heaped up along : the sides of the line of fracture, on the inner aspect of the skull, and (even blocking up one of the venous sinuses. Authentic cases of re- ( covery are recorded ; the patients having lived for a variable period of I months or years, and at length dying from other causes, pre-existing • fracture of the base of the skull has been verified by examination, as in thirteen such cases collected by Hewett. The prognosis of fractured base of the skull is, as a rule, very I unfavourable. This conclusion is sufficiently attested by the statistical r results referred to. But a correct interpretation of symptoms—as ' already explained—will enable the Surgeon to rightly appreciate the . grounds of his prognosis. The discharge of cerebro-spinal fluid from • the ear or nose is of no serious import in itself; the real source of danger is the accompanying intra-cranial lesions, specially of the mem- i branes of the brain. Fracture of the yault of the skull is occasionally