FISTULA IN ANO. 563 any risk of either of these two misadventures, and of the mechanical embarrassment, I, some years ago, invented a knife, which has an ensheathed blade, and is hence denominated the " concealed fistula- knife." (Fig. 835.) It has the appearance of an ordinaiy director, set ill the handle of a scalpel. This director is introduced through the fistula into the bowel, when, by depressing a button on the back of the handle, the instrument is then converted into a knife, having a shai^p point, which can be passed through the bowel, if the fistula be in- complete; and the operation finished in the ordinary manner. One instrument, therefore, suffices to begin and complete the operation, and by a more simple, speedy, and safe procedure. I have operated with this concealed knife many times, and under circumstances of some difficulty; always with ease, and with an in-and-out-again movement not otherwise practicable. In concluding the operation, a narrow strip of oiled lint should be passed up the bowel, into the cul-de-sac when it exists, and laid within the wound of the open fistulous tract. Thus healing and closure by granulation may take place from the bottom. But it will be un- necessary and undesirable to continue this lint-tent longer than the first two or three days. If its application be unduly prolonged, the wound may become a chronic granular cleft, indisposed to contract and cicatrize; or it_ heals, leaving a gap, and a weakened state of the sphincter muscle with a tendency to the involuntary escape of faeces and flatus. This latter state I have known to remain for five or six years, or even permanently, after the operation ; and it is perhaps un- avoidable to some extent in the after-management of an operation, when the fistula itself was deep, chronic, or both. The discomfort and misery entailed by the perpetual liability to feculent discharge, may be almost worse than the original fistula ; usually, however, the sphincter gradually regains its strength and the power of retention is restored; But I know of no operative resource for substitating an efficient con- traction of the anal aperture. |P After-treatment.—The bowels having been thoroughly emptied before operation, no action may take place for two or three days; any liability to disturbance must be restrained by opium, and then the gentlest aperient—castor oil—should be administered. Ha3morrhage*' rarely proves troublesome. At the time of operation occasionally,^bleeding may be such as evidently to require special means to arrest it • the wound should be plugged with lint to the bottom, and a compress applied, secured by a T bandage. Then the patient should be watched lest ha3morrhage continuing internally, and the blood passing up the bowel, a large quantity might be lost imperceptibly. Secondary hasrnorrhage, occurring in the course of a few hours, must be treated m like manner; the clots removed, ice-cold water injected and a nluo- introduced well up the bowel. The wound heals usually in two or three weeks. If sluggish and indisposed to close, the healino- process seems to be assisted by the administration of the conf ectio pineris niori ni drachm doses, at bed-time. ^ ^ ° ' Ligature of the septal portion of bowel has sometimes proved bv mT t V T'^i\°P^^f^'^.^ of late years been strongly advocated J P ?1. .r '^^^^^^'^ P^^^^d, by means rh ; t^o ends are tied, and adapted to a small screw. The ligature is tightened; as at