OPEEATION FOR CLEFT PALATE. 339 I ff These perforations give a line, so to speak, to the chisel, which ■ now inserted and made to cut through the bone on either side. TT Mason of St. Thomas's Hospital, claims to have suggested this 1-ni'marv use of the brad-awl, to prevent the chisel splintering the pieiimi j^^^^^^ mentioned that if the vomer be attached to one Tfeoi the cleft, it is extremely difficult to pass the stitches, and im- ; Isible, without detaching the vomer to bring that edge of the ate on to a lower horizontal plane, which it is of great importance effect in order to lessen the height of the vault of the mouth, so e sential to the ultimate improvement in speech. In such cases, there- foe is advisable to strip the soft tissues off the bone on hat side Islu t described. By slightly twisting the handle of the chisel the palatal process of the maxilla is broken from its anterior connections S when this is repeated on the opposite side, the edges of the cleft •n thi hard palate can be approximated. The use of he chisel causes considerable haemorrhage, which, however, can readily be staunched bv plu-ing the lateral apertures with lint. Threads shou d now be Lsed°?eady for tying, through the edges of the soft palate down fo the apex of the ^vta; and those lying loose in the holes bored m the hard palate having now been drawn tight, aU the stitches should ,e fastened off in the usual way. . A purgative, such as a full dose of castor oil, may be given with advantage about the third day after the operation, to get rid of the clotted blood which may have been swallowed during this procedure. It is usual to remove the stitches on the fourth day, and it is often a nice question to decide, in a doubtful case, whether to leave them in a httle longer, or to take them out for fear of their causmg harmful irritation. The plugs of lint should be removed on the second or third day It is very important that the patient should be in a good state of general health at the time of the operation,—more especially free from cold, as any increase in the secretion in the nares tends to ooze through between the edges and prevent primary union. For the first week after the operation, the patient must not speak, should be kept perfectly quiet in bed (if able to write should be pro- vided with a slate and pencil), with the head low, so that any mucus forming may drain back into the pharynx. A fluid diet should be ordered, consisting of milk, beef-tea, eggs beaten up, and plain soups taken cold, for the first twenty-four hours. The improvement in the speech is generally slow, but much may be done by practice; the patient being taught to open the mouth wide, and to endeavour to pronounce each letter distinctly, with the nostrUs kept closed between the fingers. it-. There is a great deal to be said m favour of both the methods just described of closing the hard palate. Langenbeck's operation seems to be more applicable to the less severe forms of cleft in the hard palate, while Sir William's operation can be performed in cases where the former could not be adopted, i.e., when the soft tissues covering the bone are extremely thin, and the cleft very wide. Durinf the three last years of Sir William's life, he used the chisel in more than eighty cases, most of which were successful, and many of them cases in which no operation had previously been considered possible. In three instances necrosis of the detached portion of the palate process occurred, and the result was necessarily unsatisfactory;