452 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND 8UR0ERY. fort or the length of life is so little, that its risk had better not be incurred. These are the cases wherein the operation ma7 be longest survived ; but also in which, without operation, life is most prolonged and least burdened. (2.) In cases where the cachexia or evident con- Btitutional disease is more than proportionate to the local disease the operation would too probably be fatal, in its own consequences, or hy accelerating the progress of cancer in organs more important than the breast.^ For similar reasons, and yet more certainly, any well-grounded suspicion of internal cancer would forbid recourse to operation. (3.) If there be no weighty reasons for its performance, operation should be avoided in all patients whose general health—apart from the can- cerous diathesis—would entail unusual risk; as in very feeble, very fat,^ over-fed, or intemperate persons; and, indeed, in any conditions which, being peculiar to individuals, would render them unfavourable subjects for other surgical operations. The probahiUty of cancer recurring in situ, after removal of the original growth, by operation.—This question is twofold ; it relates to the proportion of recurrent cases, and as to the average period of immunity, before the return takes place. Experience shows that, in a large proportion of cases, the disease returns; generally, also, in two or three years, as Sir A. Cooper and Sir B. Brodie both observed, and with a fatal termination. But, from Mr. Baker's tables, it appears that, in forty-two per cent., cancer of the breast returns within six months after operation; and Paget's and Lebert's series of cases each show that the period of immunity is seldom extended beyond a year. This interval of freedom is not prolonged by the previously short duration of the disease; recurrence taking place generally not later after early than after delayed operations. With regard to the state of the tumour, and of the lymphatic glands at the time of operation, evidence is wanting in confirmation of two received opinions:—that return of the disease, and death, will be more certain and speedy, if the cancer be adherent to the skin, or in a state of ulceration; and, again, when the axillary lymphatic glands are involved, and removed with the cancerous breast, that recurrence and a fatal termination will be accelerated. The probability of prolonging life, by operation.—The statistics col- lected by Paget, Sibley, and Baker, respectively, are here to the point. Paget states, that of 139 cases, seventy-five were not submitted to operation, and of these the average duration of life was forty-eight months. Of sixty-four operated on, the corresponding average was a little beyond fifty-two months. Sibley finds that the average duration of life in unoperated cases was about thirty-two months; whilst in those submitted to excision of the breast, it reached fifty-four months, —a relative difference still more in favour of operation. Baker's table shows that the average was forty-three months, against fifty-five months,—a relative difference more nearly corresponding to that shown by the first series of cases. Bat the period of tlie disease, when submitted to operation, makes a very important difference in its result. Thus, in the first two years of the disease, the proportion of deaths has been found to be much less in those operated on than in those who were left to nature and other treatment; being in the former less than eleven per cent. ; in the latter more than thirty per cent. The longest duration of life in cases not operated on, was eighteen years ; in those