791 IJBINARY FISTULiE. may perhaps result from the inflaence merely of the irritation in the adjoining portion of the urethral canal. (Fig. 934.) In the one con- dition, abscess, proceeding from the canal, may open externally; in the other condition, abscess, forming outside the canal, may open into it, and externally. Urinary abscess is liable to form in various situa- tions, in relation to the urethral tract; and it is thence desio-nated perineal, scrotaly intra-pelvic, and cmte-sorotal or penile. This also repre- sents the order of fi-eqaency in the situations of such abscess. A small, circumscribed, hard, and painful tumour is felt, in the neighbourhood of the urethra, which scarcely attains any considerable size, unless in the perineum. It is not attended by much constitutional disturbance. Treatment.—Early incision is absolutely necessary, to prevent further extravasation of urine, or the formation of urinary fistula. A free and often deep incision, in the middle line, will give instant relief to tension or afford exit to matter. The part should then be well poulticed. Urinary Pistcjlj; commonly result from urinary abscess, communi- cating with the urethra, and externally. The internal opening is generally in the membranous urethra, just behind the usual seat of stricture; the external opening is most frequently perineal (Fig. 935) or scrotal; and the intervening parts are traversed by the fistulous passage, or passages in various and often devious routes. Sometimes the fistula is ante-scrotal or penile ; and here the communication with the internal or urethral opening is almost direct. Less frequently, the openings of urinary fistulas-are found in the groins, the upper part of the thighs, the adjacent part of the nates, or even above the pubic symphysis. In size, the fistulous passages differ con- siderably; some admitting only the finest probe, others readily the finger. In point of number also, they vary remarkably; penile fistulge being usually single, whereas scrotal and especially perineal fistulse are often numerous. Fifty-two openings Oiviale found in one such case. The surrounding structures differ so much in their condition as almost to warrant the distinction of urin- ary fistula into two classes : the simj^le or healthy fistula, and the indurated fistula. In the latter condition, the fistulse are some- times connected with cavities secreting pus, and detaining in their interior some quan- tity of the urinary secretion. The surround- ing parts share the induration ; the scrotum and penis becoming enormously enlarged and brawny, or almost cartilaginous. Another and more important distinction which characterizes a class of urinary fistulse, is that wherein the urethral opening results from actual destruction and loss of substance by sloughing, m consequence of urinary extravasation, phaged^enic ulceration, or mechanical injury. A portion of the floor of the urethra «rPtbr?"S^ abscess, commumcating with the ^^^'^J:^^!^^ "'^-^'^'^"""^ having a r.t„loioponiu. Fig. 935.*