AMPUTATIONS. 95 where the knife first touched the periosteum; these are divided with the point of the knife. The saw must then be applied at the highest part where the bone is exposed, and the bone sawn across transversely ; the saw being worked freely from point to heel, and not fiddled irregu- lai'ly. In making retraction deep towards the bone, it will generally be requisite or advantageous to employ a retractor—a broad piece of linen, with a longitudinal slit in it; this appliance proving more efficieut than the fingers. In practising circular amputation on the dead subject, the flaccid state of the muscles, as contrasted with their tonicity during life, even under the influence of chloroform, will render it unnecessary to employ a retractor or to use the more forcible manual retraction, alDOve directed; but this difference only affords another illustration of the general distinction between operations on the dead and the living. On allowing the integuments and muscles to fall down and regain their position, a conical cavity is formed, sloping gradually from the circular line to the skin, as the base, up to the bone, as the apex of the cone; presenting a loose but fleshy stump. The vessels are secured, and the integuments adjusted by sutures, as in the flap amputation. A modification of the circular mode of amputation was introduced by Mr. Syme (1846). It consist of forming two semilunar incisions through the integuments, which are dissected and retracted upwards for at least two inches; then cutting the muscles on a level with the re- tracted skin obliquely up towards the bone, the muscles on the pos- terior aspect being divided at a somewhat lower line. All the soft parts are then well retracted, and the bone cleared and sawn at its highest point. This is sometimes known as "the mixed method of amputation "—a combination of the flap with the circular methods ; and it may be performed by means of lateral, or of antero-posterior flaps. It is equally well adapted for amputations in the upper or lower limb, and especially in the leg or the forearm. The relative merits of these two modes of amputation have, been much discussed; and some Surgeons have practised almost exclusively the one, and some the other, operation. Mr. Listen advocated flap am- patation, and Sir "W". Pergusson seemed to prefer it, although fully ac- knowledging the good results of circular amputation in the hands of many excellent Surgeons. I am a disciple of the former distinguished Surgeon, originally as my teacher ; and having performed the flap am- putation almost invariably, for many years, with ease, and the pro- duction of permanently good stumps, I am inclined to recommend its general adoption. Professor Spence, who has paid great attention to the subject of amputation, gives the preference to the flap operation, as compared with the circular method, subject to certain modifications of the former method. The two modes of amputation may perhaps be thus estimated :—flap amputation is decidedly more easy of execiition ; circular amputation has sometimes the advantage of a more successful result in a good stump. Both, however, may prove equally satisfactory m this respect, with care during the operation, in the formation of the stump, and in the subsequent dressing. Flap amputation is decidedly superior at any joint; and circular amputation in the continuity of a bone, when the limb is unusually fleshy. I have sometimes overcome the difficulty of redundant flaps, by passing the knife above and below the bone, m making the flaps, so as to leave a wedge-shaped portion,