SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 350 with suicidal intent, and usually therefore with a cutting instrument, as a razor or knife; forming the wonnd ordinarily known as cut throat! This wound is a transverse and upturned incision, somewhat jagged or lacerated, and varying in depth and extent. ^ It may be a superficial wound, dividing only the integument, and to a limited extent, in front of the throat; or extend across the' throat, from side to side, or ear to ear, and sever the carotid vessels—artery and vein, with perhaps the pneumogastric nerve—on one or both sides, and if sufficiently low down in the neck, the phrenic nerve may be touched. An integumental wound, commencing on one side of the throat, may divide these vascular and nerve-trunks on that side; but a wound sufficiently resolute to extend to the other side—cutting the throat, as it is popularly termed, from ear to ear—and dividing the vessels on both sides, will scarcely be effected without involving deeper parts. A deep wound involves the air-passages, and perhaps the pharynx or oesophagus. The appearance and functional phenomena differ some- what according to the situation of the wound. It may be ahove the hyoidhone; thus opening the mouth under the tongue, which perchance will be touched, and the power of deglutition is lost. Or, the wound may pass across the thijro-hyoid space, above the larynx, the commonest situation ; opening the pharynx, and perhaps shaving off the epiglottis or touching the glottis itself, and here also deglutition is incomplete. Or, the larynx may be divided anteriorly, exhibiting a transverse gap, through which the air issues during each expiration, with a rushing, bubbling sound, and with almost sufficient force to blow out a candle if held near the aperture. The voice is lost or reduced to a broken whisper, but it is restored on closing this opening in the windpipe. Similar phenomena are observed when the trachea is opened. The thyroid hody will be almost necessarily involved, an important source of haemorrhage. The oesophagus can be opened only by a deeper wound, passing through the trachea. But, in rare instances, both windpipe and gullet have been divided down to, and implicating, the vertebral column beneath. The windpipe is usually cut in front and high up, the suicide imagining that a wound of the air-passage is mortal; and thus the prominence of the larynx mostly invites the attempt. Hence also, the great vessels and nerves, on either side of the throat, providentially escape injury. Consequences and prognosis.—Hcemorrhage is the immediate source ■ of danger. It may be venous; proceeding from the plexus in front of the trachea, or from the internal jugular vein. The carotid trunk or its branches are the source of arterial haemorrhage; and the trunk must be wounded if the jugular vein be implicated. Death may speedily ensue, directly from hgemorrhage, or from the blood trickling into the windpipe, producing asphyxia, or inflammation of the lungs at a later period. Occasionally death arises from the accidental sucking up of air into the veins, inducing asphyxia. Division of a large nerve, the pneumogastric or phrenic, occurs usually in conjunction with wound of the larger vessels; and division of the phrenic on one side only may be almost immediately fatal, either by partially suspending respiration, or in consequence of inflammatory congestion of the lungs. Asphyxia, in connection with or as a consequence of cut throat, may arise, as already stated, from hsemorrhage into the trachea, or from