367 DISEASES OF PHARYNX AND ffiSOPHAGUS. of erowtb. Laryngotomj may have to be performed, prior to drawing the tumour forwards over the larynx and excising it through the mouth Pharyngotomy might be preferable to this double operation, a the tumour be "accessible to incision through the neck. Steictuee of the CEsophagus.—This condition may be the result •of certain distinct diseases of the oesophagus, producing a contracted state of this tube, which is commonly designated organic or per- manent stricture to distinguish it from spasmodic stricture of the ^^°fl^°Organic stricture may be of traumatic origin—a cicatrix re- sultino- from ulceration produced by the impaction of a foreign body, or may be occasioned by swallowing some acrid poison, as sulphuric acid. The latter mode of origin gives rise to a valvular fold of the mucous membrane, as an intestinal stricture consequent on dysentery. Cancerous thickening of the oesophagus may be epithelial, or medullary, or scirrhous. Malignant disease of the oesophagus almost invariably occurs at one of three positions; viz., most frequently opposite the ;cricoid cartilage; next, near the cardiac oriiice of the stomach; and, dastly, opposite the bifurcation of the trachea. Symptoms.—Ah first, slight dysphagia is experienced in the passage 'of sohd food to the stomach. This increasing, the patient restricts himself to fluid food. At length, fluids are sipped only a few drops . at a time, and perhaps partially rejected. Constant hunger tortures !the patient day and night, yielding, however, at last to loss of desire for food ; rapid emaciation and declining strength ensue. An almost never-failing symptom is the expectoration of a glairy fluid, a com- ibination of saliva and mucus, which in health continually passes i down the gullet, but in cases of obstruction collects above the seat of a ■ stricture, and requires to be ejected from time to time. If ulceration I takes place, expectoration of a semi-purulent and offensive secretion i denotes this change, the breath also becoming perceptibly foetid. Hamburger's method of oesophageal auscultation affords valuable f evidence in all cases of obstruction, but this method of examination '■ requires much training and constant practice. The cautious introduc- i tion of an oesophageal bougie will declare the existence of a stricture, : for the instrument comes to aji obstruction or passes with difficulty. 1 Before passing the bougie, care should always be taken to ascertain that :;no thoracic aneurism obstructs the passage. The kind of stricture r must then be determined. Scirrhous stricture presents a limited and < smooth extent of contraction; no pus or blood follows the withdrawal of " the instrument, but simply mucous discharge ; there is no tumour in the 1 neck, no cancerous enlargement of the cervical glands, nor cachexia. 1 Epithelial or encephaloid stricture differs or contrasts in all these par- ; ticulars: a larger and irregular surface of contraction, through which t the bougie passes roughly; pus and blood, or the latter more especially, 1 with shreds of tissue, follow the witbdrawal of the instrument; while in some cases an elongated tumour is to be felt at the root of the neck, \ with cancerous enlargement of the cervical glands, and there is often c cancerous cachexia. (2.) Spasmodic stricture is distinguished by the intermittent charac- t ter of the contraction; it being sometimes present, sometimes absent, ■ and situated more often in the pharynx than the oesophagus. The dysphagia intermits, and seems to be influenced mainly by the patient's