SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 240 and drawing it inwards, the knife enters the orbit externally; the eye is detached, the optic nerve and artery are divided at the apex of the orbit, and the attachments severed internally, thus completing the extirpation of the organ. The lachrymal gland should be removed also; it is commonly involved in disease of the ball, and is always useless, or its presence would occasion inconvenience afterwards, as I have noticed by a continued secretion of tears overflowing the cheek, but which at length ceases. Hasmorrhage must be arrested by sluicing with cold water, and the application of a graduated compress, well placed upon the artery at the apex of the orbit. The eyelids are closed, and a light bandage drawn round the head, covering the other eye._ Opiates will have to be administered from time to time, to relieve the severe penetrating and clasping pain in the head. The compress may be removed in about two days, according to the probability of hfemorrhage, and not reapplied unless it should recur. The orbit is to be gently syringed, the wound cleansed, and water-dressing applied, or other dressing on ordinary principles of treatment. Strabismus, or Squint.—The pathology and causes of Squint have already been noticed in connection with Deformities of the Face Fig. 637.* Fig. 638.t (Vol. I. p. 831). It remains only to here describe the operation for its cure or relief. Subconjunctival division of the tendon of the contracted muscle is now commonly practised. This oper- ation, as for convergent squint, is thus performed:—" The lids," says Mr. Dixon, " are kept asunder_ with a spring speculum; and an assistant draws aside the globe, by nipping up with the forceps a little fold of loose coniunctiva near the margin of the -, . ^ , j- -j j cornea, at the opposite side to that on which the muscle is to be divided. Supposing the internal rectus to be chosen for operation, the Surgeon, with scissors, divides the ocular conjunctiva either vertically, close to the margin of the cornea (Fig. 637), or horizontally, on a level vnth * First step of operation for strabismus-a fold of the conjunctiva, near the border of the cornea, seized and about to be divided by the scissors. . ^ , . t A. Fixing forceps; b. strabismus hook; c. curved bluut-pomted scissors.