SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 856 strual activity, rather than of very early or later life; but no a^e ig exempt. Vaginal examination by the finger is usually conclusive ihe small mucous polypi growing from the os uteri are felt as pea-like bodies rollmg under the touch. The larger fibroid polypi are made out as farm rounded masses, more or less constricted by the ring of the cervix uteri; the sound or finger may penetrate beyond the mass and constriction, thus making out a uterine cavity. The case is thus distin- guished from inversion of the uterus, which commonly presents a firm rounded mass projecting into the vagina like a polypus, but in which the finger or sound are arrested at the root of the tumour, that is, at the groove of reflection of the uterus and vagina. Inversion is further determined by passing a finger into the rectum and a sound into the bladder, and then, turning the point of the sound backwards, it is felt by the finger in the rectum above the tumour, where the uterus, if in normal position, would be. To obviate the risk of amputating an inverted uterus by mistake for a polypus, Dr. Barnes urges that anassthesia should never be employed. The polypus is insensitive. Acute pain arising during the grip of the wire, gives presumptive evidence of inversion. He relates cases in point. Treatment.—Benign polypi admit of removal, by scissors, torsion, ligature, or ecraseur. The risk of hemorrhage should mainly decide the selection of either method of operation. But when the peduncle is long and thin, the best plan is to snip it through with scissors, or twast it with forceps until it gives way. Ligature by whipcord passed through Grooch's double cannula was a method formerly in vogue. The peduncle, gradually strangled, sloughed through, and the polypus fell off. Foul discharges, metritis, and septicaemia occasionally followed. Barnes cites fatal examples. The method is now abandoned for the immediate removal by ecraseur. The wire is the best. The ecraseur should be slightly curved at the end where the loop comes through; this greatly facilitates the adjustment of the loop over the tumour. If the tumour is large, it is convenient to seize it first by a vulsellum, and draw it down before adjusting the wire loop. The vulsellum, keeping its hold, is then useful in extracting the tumour from the vagina. Little bleeding usually follows the operation, and no dressing is required. It is, however, useful to wash out the vagina by syringing daily for a few days. It is one of the most satisfactory of surgical operations. Cancer of the Uterus.—All forms of cancer may afiect the uterus; either primarily, as being the seat of the disease; or secondarily, by invasion from other organs. Thus, we recognize scirrhous, encephaloid, and rarely colloid cancer of the uterus ; also epithelial cancer and tlie so-called cauliflower excrescence and sarcoma, which especially affects the body of the uterus. But it is only when seated in the os uteri, and at an early period of the disease, that uterine cancer is amenable to surgical treatment. Signs.—Pain and hsemorrhage are accepted as characteristic. But the first thing that commonly attracts attention is hsemorrhage, often to the extent of flooding, either in the form of menorrhagia, or occurring after the cUmacteric. When the stage of ulceration is reached, discharges are continuous ; blood, mucus, watery, stained with blood, of offensive odour, alternate. Pain is not common until the disease has made great progress, invading the neighbouring organs. Then signs of constitutional infection arc developed.