SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGKRY. 732 Treatment must be conducted on ordinary principles ; the removal 01 any causative condition referred to, and the administration of anodynes, or their topical influence by suppositories, with tonics a well-regulated diet and state of the bowels, change of air, and other hygienic resources. One of the worst cases I ever had, was in an old, enfeebled debauchee, subject to rheumatic attacks, and whose rectum was often loaded with the feculent matter of hard, undigested food. He became much relieved by removing this source of irritation. Pakaltsis of the Bladder.—This condition of the bladder signifies a loss or impairment of the contractile power of its muscular fibres, by failure of the nervous supply to this organ. The paralysis may be partial or complete, and the usual cause is some lesion of the cerebral or spinal nervous centres. Thus, it occurs in connection with injury to the brain or spine ; or from disease, as apoplexy, softening, or other structurally destructive disease. Some- times the paralysis seems to be dependent on functional conditions,—as in hysteria; spinal debility induced by sexual excesses ; reflex action from some adjacent source of irritation, as haemorrhoids and after operations for their removal; the shock of injury; the result of fever; and the influence of certain medicinal agents, as belladonna, hyoscyamus. These two classes of causative conditions have each an important characteristic. The functional causes of paralysis of the bladder pro- duce only a temporary effect; and the structural causes generally involve other parts—they are not restricted in their action to local paralysis of the bladder alone. Such limited paralysis of the whole organ, producing retention of urine, or of its neck only, producing in- continence, is extremely rare; it is usually not a paralytic condition, but simply atony from over-distension. Treatment.—Palliative measures consists in emptying the bladder from time to time, and in the treatment of chronic cystitis consequent on the paralysis and retention of urine. The urine must be dra^vn off, two or three times a day, by means of a full-sized catheter. It should be used gently, the bladder having lost its sensibility to pain when injury is inflicted, and the urethra being often in a lax state. The stream of urine drawn off will be small, or even dribbling, owing to the bladder having lost its contractile power ; propulsion depending on the action of the abdominal muscles alone, when not involved in the paralysis. Chronic cystitis should be treated principally by local means ; injections of tepid water to wash out the bladder, followed by weak astringent injection. Curative measures must be directed to the restoration of innervation—the supply of nervous influence. In chronic cases, not traumatic, strychnia, ii"on, arsenic, cantharides, and ergot of rye, may prove beneficial; while, of local agents, blister- ing, cold douches, and electricity are the most promising. Atony, from over-distension.— It is highly important to observe the distinction between this condition of the bladder and paralysis. Unlike the latter condition, atony always arises from some organic ob- struction—stricture or enlarged prostate, mechanically impeding the evacuation of urine, or from long-continued retention; thus overcoming the contractile power of the bladder, instead of arising from any failure of this power. The resistance offered to the passage of urine, or by its accumulation, is simply greater than the expelling force. Hence, a