SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 644 in quantity too minute to bo visible, or made visible by staining linen. ° Nitric Acid.—Pour on a white plate, or sheet of writing-paper, a snaall quantity of the suspected urine, so as to form an exceedingly thin layer, and carefully allow a drop or two of nitric acid to fall upon it. An immediate j)l^y of colours, green and pink predominating, will, if the colouring matter of bile he present, appear around the spot where the acid falls. Heller's Test.—Add to the urine any albuminous fluid—serum of blood or white of egg; then pour in sufficient nitric acid to produce a considerable albuminous coagulum. Examined after a short repose, it will present a bluish or green colour if bile pigment existed in the urine; whilst, if none were present, the deposited mass will be white or slightly yellow. But albumen precipitated by nitric acid in urine, destitute of bile, is more or less coloured, bluish or reddish; this appearance arising from the action of nitric acid on the colouring matter of the urine—uroxanthine. Dr. Basham has observed this urinary coloured albumen most frequently in acute renal dropsy; and it is a very un- favourable sign. Acetate of lead precipitates albumen, if present, in biUous urine, of a yellowish colour. Colour of Phosphates.—After exposure of urine for a day or two, crystals of triple phosphate are deposited, having a yellow tinge. A very delicate and pretty test of bile colouring matter (Hassall). For Bile Acids.—(a.) Pettenlcofer's Test: To a small quantity of the suspected urine in a test-tube, two-thirds of its volume of sulphuric acid are to be carefully added, taking care that the mixture, which soon becomes hot, never exceeds a temperature of 144 degrees. Three or four drops of a solution of one part of sugar to four of water are then added, and the mixture shaken. A violet-red colour is developed if bile be present. This familiar test was not regarded favourably by Golding Bird. His experience led him to doubt its accuracy, and in applying it there are numerous sources of fallacy to be guarded against; chiefly, that the action of sulphuric acid on sugar develojis a red colour in the absence of bile. A mixture of albumen or oil with sugar will, even in very minute quantities, under the action of sulphuric acid, produce a purple or scarlet colour, as Raspail long ago observed. (&.) Hoppe's Test—for a trace of bile acid. Treat the suspected urine with excess of milk of lime, and boil for half an hour. Filter, and evaporate the clear fluid nearly to dryness, and then decompose with excess of strong hydrochloric acid. Boil the mixture for half an hour, renewing the acid from time to time, so as to prevent the spurt- ing which would occur from over-concentration. Let the mixture completely cool, and then dilute with from six to eight times its volume of water. Filter with the turbid solution, and wash the resinous mass, until the water runs through quite colourless. Dissolve the residue iu spirit, containing ninety per cent, of real alcohol, decolourize with animal charcoal, again filter, and evaporate to dryness over a water- bath. The yellowish resinous residue is pure choloidic acid. On warming it, a pecuhar musk-like odour is emitted. Dissolve this resinous matter in a little caustic soda and warm water, add a little