SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 456 belladoiiTia, spread thickly on lint, and placed over the whole breast or both breasts. Sedatives and tonics have also some degree of beneficial influence in arresting the secretion. (3.) Deficient lacteal secretion, or Agalactia, depends either npon an organic imperfection of the gland, or on constitutional causes. The secretion will probably be excited by the application of the leaves of the castor-oil plant to the breast, by warmth and moisture, and by the stimulus of the act of suckling. (4.) Go7igestionwith Milk.—This state seems to depend on a secretion of the more soHd constituents of the milk, without the serous; thus favouring an accumulation of thick milk in the lactiferous ducts instead of the escape of the secretion being facilitated by a due ad- mixture of fluid. The breast acquires an enormous size, and a stony hardness, resembling scirrhus. But the sudden appearance of this large tumour, and its occurrence during lactation, probably when this function first commences after parturition, are sufficiently diagnostic. Lacteal congestion of the breast proceeds very slowly and generally terminates in inflammation and abscess. This affection is usually confined to one breast; and the gland having regained a healthy condition, performs its function healthily after a subsequent parturition. The treatment consists in strapping, and the application of an oint- ment of iodide of potassium or iodide of lead; gentle aperients and tonics. _ Diseases of the Male Breast.—The mammary gland in the male exists in a rudimentary state ; occasionally only some development of glandular structure taking place. Soon after birth, the organ becomes tumid, and a slight secretion forms within the ducts. This naturally ceases, or may require repressive treatment. At puberty, the gland again enlarges, is painful for a few days, and then subsides. Irritation at this time may induce inflammation and abscess. Or, in the adult, some slight wound or chafe near the nipple will, perhaps, give rise to abscess, of which I have seen two instances ; in one the axillary glands became enlarged, and threatened to suppurate. A remarkable sexual excitement may also occur in such cases. Eypertropliy of one or both breasts is sometimes produced in men of delicate constitution; the glands enlarging sufiiciently to resemble the bosoms of young girls. Treatment of any such natural conformation will scarcely succeed in reducing this annoyance. . Tumours, of the same species as those in the female breast, occa- sionally form in the male breast. Cancer is the most frequent growth, and it appears generally between forty and fifty years of age. The treatment of morbid growths presents nothing peculiar. Amputation of the breast is performed in the same way as for the removal of the female breast, but the operation in the male is less extensive. Anomalies op Development, in the Female and the Male Breast.— (1.) Absence of the Breast is recorded both by Sir A. Cooper and Froriep. Congenital deficiency of the Nipple has also been met with. (2.) Supernumerary Breasts are of more frequent occurrence, though rare. Most frequently, one supernumerary gland has been found; sometimes, two such glands; rarely three—constituting, with the normal glands, five mammse. The situations of an abnormal mamma are various; usually being near to the natural breast, and where four