794 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. nrine, which would disturb the process of adhesion in the line of closure over the urethral opening. During the course of reparation by any of these urethro-plastic operations, the urine must always be drawn off gently by a catheter three or four times daily. ' Urinary-Vaginal and Uterine Fistula.—Fistulous openings may be established : (1) between the urethra and vagina ; (2) between the bladder and vagina; or (3) between the bladder and uterus. These communications result from contusions or laceration in parturition, the introduction of foreign bodies, the effects of calculous concretions' in the bladder, or operations for their removal. Openings caused by the extension of cancerous ulceration are here omitted, as such fistalse are quite incurable. Much and persevering attention has been given of late years to the surgical treatment of the various forms of simple fistulge; and results have been obtained, in a large number of cases, sufficient to establish the operative cure of these distressing conditions as a finished achieve- ment. We are chiefly indebted, for this addition to Surgery, to the labours of Dieffenbach, Dr. Bozeman, Mr. Baker Brown, Dr. Marion Sims, Professor Simpson, Mr. Bryant, and Mr. Spencer Wells. The principal features connected with the operations as more recently practised, and which have led to their increasing success, are th us enumerated by Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson. Speaking chiefly of vesical fistulje; 1st, the use of chloroform, which facilitates the difii- cult step of the dissection; 2nd, the use of metal sutures instead of silk ; 3rd, the avoidance of the vesical mucous membrane, both in the dissection and in the application of the sutures; and 4th, increased attention to keeping the bladder empty Fig. 937. afterwards. It may be added that metallic or wire shields, adjusted over the hne of union, were much relied on a few years since; but they are now generally dis- carded in favour of sutures alone. Vesico-vaginal fistula may be taken as the type of the three urinary fistulse, relating to the vagina and uterus. The requisite operation consists in completely paring the edges of the vaginal aspect of the fistula, and then uniting them by suture. But many particulars should be observed, as tending materially to the success of this procedure; and they are tersely stated in the following sum- mary by Hutchinson, which I can in- dorse by my own experience :—The 1 instruments used are small tenotomy- like knives, forceps, needles, and fine j silver wire. Instruments for carrying | the wire have also been devised, as 1 Startin's tubular needle. The patient J should be in her best state of health, and I the bowels have been well cleared out. Chloroform having been given, I * Sims's duck-bill spocuUim. '