687 LATERAL LITHOTOMY IN CHILDREN. the position of the bladder—it being situated higher up, or more in the abdomen than in the pelvis. These conditions severally affect the operation in its first part—that of entering the bladder; extraction of the stone is not attended with any special diflBculty. Thus, the superficial perineal incision having been made correctly, the loose cellular texture easily yields and gives way under the finger, forming a distinct, smooth-walled cavity or false bladder, in the recto- vesical space; which resembles the interior of the bladder. A very little groping with the finger, in the wrong direction—downwards—will form this deceptive cavity; into which the finger readily enters as if into the bladder. Perhaps also the membranous urethra has been penetrated, whereby the urine dribbles away and the bladder gradually collapses; both circumstances apparently confirming the belief that the finger is really in that cavity. Indeed, the latter condition affords more room for the easy enlargement of the false bladder. In this anxious and perilous moment, two points of distinction should be remembered : this false bladder presents no nech through which the finger should pass to gain admission, nor can the hare grooved staff be felt along the back of the finger when introduced into the cavity. Besides both these negative features of distinction, ahove this cavity, near the symphysis pubis, lies the staff leading to the bladder; and which can be plainly felt on directing the finger fi'om the scene of mischief obliquely upwards to that spot. Hence, the practical infer- ences are these : in approaching the staff, to avoid making anatomy by a too free use of the finger as a guide; and to direct both it and the knife upwards to the more highly situated staff, instead of heed- lessly slipping into and working in the interval between the bladder and rectum. A precaution before operating should also be observed— that of sufficiently distending the bladder with water, to lower its position in the pelvis and to steady its neck. The same kind of mis- adventure may occur between the neck of the bladder and the pubes, by misuse and misdirection of the finger upwards. It need scarcely be added that, in either such case, the little patient remains unrelieved, and dies with the stone in the bladder. Tet this calamity has hap- pened to some of the most skilful and experienced lithotomists—past and present. Again, in endeavouring to hit the membranous urethra and lodge the point of the knife in the groove of the staff, the urethra being of small size, it may be so cut about as to be nearly severed from the prostate. Or, if the point of the finger be not insinuated well into the opening, or if any undue force be used in passing it into the bladder, the thin membranous urethra may be torn across, and the neck of the bladder driven backwards on, or off, the staff,—an accident more likely to happen when the urethra has been nearly severed. Thus then, in opening the urethra, as in approaching it, fiddling with the knife must be avoided; and in both procedures, any'forcihie use of the finger will also be mischievous. The rudimentary size of the prostate, and the high position of the bladder, will both necessitate a more upward direction of the point of the knife, in making the prostatic incision. And it should be remem- bered that this incision must necessarily almost always, if not invari- ably, extend through the whole of the small prostate, in its left lobe • yet without any evil consequence. '