609 CONGENITAL HERNIA. * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., E. 24. inter-muscular," " intei'stitial, hernial sacs," " hernie-enbissac" of French authoi'S. Coincident with misplaced testis there may, there- fore, be an abnormal disposition of the hernial sac, itself abnormal. An offset from the vaginal process of peritoneum, forming a second sac, may extend into the substance of the abdominal wall. The hernial sac will then consist of two parts : that division which passes along the inguinal canal into the scrotum, and that which is lodged in the wall of the abdomen. This extra sac extends in one of two directions : into the anterior, or into the inferior, wall of the abdomen. In the one direction, the sac passes upwards from the inguinal canal between the internal abdominal fascia and the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle ; coursing directly upwards, outwards towards the crest of the ilium, or inwards towards the rectus muscle and um- bilicus. Very rarely, the sac comes forward through the external abdominal ring and cannot enter the scrotum ; it ascends between the aponeurosis of the external oblique and the integument, and when the hernia protrudes, it forms a tumour in the groin above and parallel with Poupart's ligament. An example of this variety is quoted by Scarpa, and another instance is recorded by Dr. Pane in " L'Union Medicale," 1861. In the other direction, the sac passes downwards, between the internal abdominal fascia and peritoneum, into the iliac fossa, and rests upon the iliacus muscle; or inwards, behind the hori- zontal ramus of the pubes, reaching the side and front of the urinary bladder. Cases are given by Dr. Parise in the " Mem. de la Soc. de Chirurgie de Paris," 1851. Infantile or Encysted Hernia.—This variety of congenital hernia was first described by the late Mr. Hey, of Leeds, in a letter to Dr. Gooch. It coexists vsdth another abnormal condition of the vaginal process of peritoneum. The abdominal orifice is closed, but the sheath persists from that point downwards to the testis, and there expands into the tunica vaginalis, as in ordinary complete congenital hernia. The visceral protrusion carries before it a pouch of the parietal peritoneum of the abdomen, into or just T'ig. 792.* behind this sheath ; and, as Mr. Hey described it, the tunica vaginalis is continued up to the abdomi- nal ring, and encloses the hernial sac. Thus also, as Lawrence observes, the protruded part, together with the sac, are contained in the tunica vaginalis. In this manner the hernia is encysted; and a double sac is discovered in operating on such a hernia, the tunica vaginalis sac lying in front of the true hernial sac. (Pig- 792.) Compared with the more frequent occurrence of congenital hernia, the encysted variety is rare. . But, like the former, it does not necessarily arise at the earliest period of life ; so that the term Infantile is inappropriate. Hey's case was an infant fifteen months old; and the hernia has since been met with, for the first time, at the age of twelve years, in a case reported by Mr. Holmes ; at seventeen years of age ; and at thirty-five years, in a case on which Mr. Birkett operated when the man was forty-two years old.