SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 66 Surgery; and this application of the general principle I have laid down, is specially advocated by Mr. Hancock, in the Lectures already referred to. The conditions of disease for which excisional operations on the foot may become appropriate, are similar to those which affect other bones and their articulations ; namely, the destructive results of inflammation, and especially in the form of caries. According to the extent of such disease, partial or complete excision of any one, or more, tarsal bones may be necessary. I proceed to describe the various operations, and to estimate their value by their results. (1.) Excision of Astragalus.—Partial excision of the astragalus, for disease, was first attempted by Severin in 1646, and in England by Ramsay in 1792. Since that time it has been performed by other Surgeons, but in a comparatively few authentic cases. Complete Excision.—This operation, as for disease, was first per- formed by Mr. Busk in 1850. Four other cases only have since been recorded in England; one each by Mr. Erichsen and the late Mr. Statham, and two by Mr. Holmes. An incision along the outer and anterior aspect of the ankle, will expose the bone; its neck should then be severed with strong cutting-pliers ; and, some space having been thus made, the bone may be drawn out of its bed by the lion-forceps, the knife being used to detach its ligamentous connections, but applied cautiously towards the inner side of the joint, in proximity to the plantar arteries. It may be necessary to extirpate the bone piecemeal, when its substance breaks down in a carious state; it must then be gouged out. Some of the anterior tarsal bones may have to be I'emoved with the astragalus. lAston's Operation on the foot—as the excision thus ex- tended, in a noted case, might be named—consisted in the removal of the astragalus, scaphoid, and two cuneiform bones. The case is reported in the " Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal " of January, 1821. Results.—Oi partial excision of the astragalus, in 27 cases recorded, 8 were operations for disease—caries; 5 terminated well, 1 ended in anchylosis, and in 2 the result was not stated. Complete Excision.—In 109 cases of complete excision of the astragalus, 14 were operations for disease; 13 being for caries, and 1 for necrosis. Of the 13 cases, 1 died, 8 recovered with good and useful limbs, 2 underwent secondary amputation two years after excision, and both recovered; in 2 the results were doubtful. The case of excision for necrosis did well. (2.) Excision of Os Calais.—Partial excision seems to have been first performed for injury, in the removal of a musket-ball from the os calcis, by Formius, as long since as the year 1669. Complete excision was first performed, and for disease—necrosis—by M. Robert, of Prague, in 1837. The second opemtion, and the first in this country, was by Mr. Hancock, in May, 1848. The first successful case in England was by Mr. Greenhow, of Newcastle, in the same year —1848; and two equally successful cases of complete excision, in the hands of that Surgeon, followed also in that year. Since then, the operation has been practised, with varying success, by other Surgeons; principally, by Sir William Fergusson, Teale of Leeds, Humphry of Cambridge, Cann of Hereford, Pcmberton of Birmingham, Potter of Newcastle, ]^'^r. Holmes, Mr. Erichsen, and myself.