LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 413 alteration o£ the vertebral column. The hodies of the vertebrce beconie • somewhat compressed in the concavity of either curve; but there is • no apparent disease of the osseous stractare. The inter-vertebral : cartilages undergo compression, so as to acquire a wedge shape, the : thin portion corresponding to the concavity oi: the curve ; and this • alteration of form is proportionate to the degree of curvature. The , ligaments are simply stretched and somewhat relaxed. The rihs conform • to the direction of the dorsal curvature; being thrown outwards and • upwards on the convexity of the curve—towards the right side, and drawn inwards and downwards, at its concavity—towards the left I side. The thorax, therefore, bulges on the one side and is depressed . on the other. The felvis also conforms to the lumbar curve; it is ! raised, accordingly, on the side of concavity—the right, and lowered , on the side of convexity—the left. Rotation, or the twist of the spine, • produces peculiar changes; the thorax projecting backwards some- ■ what, as well as outwards and upwards, on the right side ; and the pelvis backwards, as well as downwards, on the left side. Signs, and Diagnosis—The signs of lateral curvature are obvious, and correspond to the structural alterations of conformation above described. On tracing the spinal column from above downwards, by passing the finger along the tips of the spinous processes, some un- natural curvature of the dorsal spine to the one side ma,y be per- ceived, with a compensating curvature in the lumbar region to the other side. And this line of undulation will be rendered more visible by marking it with a pen dipped in ink. But the degree of rotatory displacement cannot be determined by the line of the spinous processes. The tips of these processes—which, until •there is considerable displacement, are the only portions of the bones we can feel—are those very parts wliich in rotation move most away from the side to which lateral dis- placement tends ; thereby allowing consider- able displacement of the vertebrEe, while the spinous processes still lie in a straight, con- tinuous line. Bulging of the thorax, beneath and outside the ayigle of the scapula, is an early sign; and followed by projection of this bone—"growing out" of the blade bone, at a later period, with some elevation of the shoulder. This corresponds to, and denotes, the dorsal curve. (Fig. 746.) A posterior projection of the innominate bone, marked by a protuberance backward just outside the sacro-ilia,c joint, is also an early sign; and followed by lateral projection of the hip, altering the outline of the figure, at a later period. This corresponds to, and denotes, the lumbar curve. The priority of a prominent shoulder, or of a prominent hip, denotes a curve primarily dorsal or primarily lumbar. The front of the chest exhibits certain opposite alterations of con- figuration as compared with its posterior aspect. The right side appears small and depressed, the left prominent. Slighter changes of * Eoyal Free Ilosiiilal. (Author.) Fig. 746.*