EXCISION OF THE WRIST. 71 of the metacarpal bones. But Professor Lister insists on the complete extirpation of the wrist, in all cases,—from the lower ends of the radius and ulna to the bases of the five metacarpal bones, inclusive; the disease, however limited it may appear, being apt to recur in the articulatory portions left by a partial operation. Operation.—Excision of the wrist was originally performed by the younger Moreau, at the close of the last century; subsequently, by a Gernian Surgeon, Dietz, in 1839 ; and then again by Heyfelder, of Er- lano-en, in 1849; but in this country the operation was revived by Sir William Fergusson, in August, 1851. Since that period, it has been resorted to by Mr. Simon, Mr. Erichsen, the late Mr. Stanley,_ and Mr. Butcher, of Dublin ; and practised especially by Professor Lister, who has devised a particular method of operation,—for complete excision of the wrist. Partial excision consists in the removal of only one or two of the carpal bones, or other limited portions of the bones, forming the wrist. This procedure can be readily effected by slitting up any fistulous aperture leading to the carious bone, and extracting it by bone-nippers and forceps. Complete excision may be performed in either of three ways. The choice of method is mainly determined by the consideration of difficulty in removing the affected bones, without dividing the extensor tendons of the fingers and thumb; the supinator tendon, radial and ulnar ex- tensor tendons inserted into the bases of the metacarpal bones, being comparatively unimportant, in consequence of the firm fibrous anchy- losis of the vsT-ist after operation, if the result be successful. First methocL—A curvilinear incision ia made, extending from just above the styloid process of the radius, downwards across the back of the wrist, and upwards to the same level above the styloid process of the ulna ; the fi^ap of integument is refl.ected, care/wZ??/ avoiding the extensor tendons of the fingers, and those of the thumb, on the ulnar half and external border of the radius. Then, dividing the supinator tendon, and the two extensor tendons of the carpus, and flexing the wrist, the radio-carpal articulation is opened; and, while the other extensor tendons referred to are drawn aside with a curved retractor by an assistant, the articular ends of the radius and ulna, the carpal bones, and bases of the metacarpus, are successively removed by a small saw or cutting-pliers introduced transversely. Second metJiod.—Two lateral longitudinal incisions are made, one on the ulnar, the other on the radial, side of the wrist; thus readily avoiding the extensor tendons of the fingers, and that of the second joint of the thumb. The operation is then continued as before, and completed by excising the bones in the same manner. A single ulnar incision is deemed sufiicient by Sir W. Pergusson, and as the best mode of operation. But this does not allow of easily getting at the large articular end of the radius. Professor Lister has particularly pointed out that there are two obvious and important objections to the lateral method, which some- what resembles that which he has devised. Firstly, the radial in- cision is so placed, as probably to sacrifice the extensor tendon of the metacarpal bone, and that of the second joint, of the thumb. Secondly, with regard to the bones, that in dividing them, an unnecessarily large amount of bone is removed from the radius and ulna, and from the