FRACTURE OF THE BASE OP THE SKULL. 161 tinfrequently occurs. But fracture in this fossa may exist without any extravasation under the ocular conjunctiva, or with only discolouration of the lids; and then the fracture, however extensive, cannot be diag- nosed. Extravasation in both these situations may also arise from fracture of the superior maxillary or malar bones ; and haemorrhage fi'om the nose may proceed from fracture of the nasal bones—a broken nose. The appearance of the eyelid is, however, more likely to be mistaken for that of an ordinary " black-eye," as if from contusion of the cheek,—a blow or fall on this part. For, whether produced by cranial fracture, or by contusion only, in both cases there is consider- able swelling and purplish discolouration, but with this difference: in the one case, the extravasation, being sulDCutaneous, looks shaded by the skin; while the other presents the familiar appearance of blood partly in the skin, as the ecchymosis of a bruise. Bleeding from the nose is also often unconnected with any fracture, cranial or nasal; but may arise from a blow, or other cause of contusion and traumatic epistaxis. The source of the blood in any case is uncertain 5 the fracture must involve some of the large vascular channels lying at the base, and also open up a way for the escape of blood externally. Either or both these effects not being produced, very extensive fracture may exist, undis- covered during life. In fracture involving the middle fossa, the middle meningeal artery may be ruptured in any part of its course between the foramen spinosum and the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. The blood is either arterial or venous. Thus, fracture in the anterior fossa, involving the orbital plates of the frontal and extending into the sphenoid bone, will lay open the venous sinuses, or the ophthalmic artery, there situated ; and more commonly the former. Vomiting of blood occurs, when during hemorrhage the blood has passed down the pharynx into the stomach. Thus, from fracture in the anterior fossa, the blood may trickle back through the nose into the pharynx; or from fracture in the middle fossa, involving the petrous portion of the temporal bone, so as to open the tympanic cavity, blood may find its way through the Eustachian tube into the pharynx; in either case, the blood being swallowed, it is ejected by an occasional vomit. In such cases, also, some of the blood passing into the nares, adds to the nasal haemorrhage ; or bleeding, as if from the mouth, occurs; the blood, not swallowed, is spit up, or may even seem to be expectorated. Vomited blood is congealed, of a blackish or brown colour, owing to the action of the gastric juice, and mingled with the contents of the stomach. The source of serous fluid has been disputed. This fluid is regarded by some Surgeons as being merely the serum of the blood, exuding from a clot after extravasation ; an opinion advocated by Laugier and Chassaignac. Or, the liquor Cotunnii, secreted from the membrane of the labyrinth, has been credited as the source of escape. But the quantity discharged, sometimes copious and persistent, is irreconcilable with either of these explanations, and the discharge sometimes escaping through the nose, shows the impossibility of its being the liquor Cotunnii. That this serous discharge is really cerebro-spinal fluid, proceeding from the subarachnoid space, would appear to be demon- strated by two kinds of evidence : experimental observation and VOL. II. jl.