491 STEANGULATED HERNIA. (a.) Operation in which the sac is opened.—The instruments required are few and simple—a scalpel with a single-cutting edge ; dissecting- forceps; directors, straight and curved; Key's broad hernia-director ; bistouries, blunt-pointed, straight and curved, for dividing the stricture, or Sir A. Cooper's hernia-knife ; retractors. It w^ill thus be seen that the onlj peculiar instruments are the hernia-director and the hernia- knife. The operation consists in exposing and opening the sac, finding and dividing the stricture, the management of adhesions, and the visceral protrusion. The patient lying down on the edge of the bed or table, with the part well exposed, the bladder is emptied and the hair shaved from the seat of operation, in the ordinary ingainal and femoral herniaj. An incision is then made, of suificient length, over the neck of the tamour, by pinching up a transverse fold of integument and transfix- ing with a scalpel through its base; the back of the knife being turned towards the hernia, the edge is made to cut outwards through the fold of skin. On letting go the fold a linear incision is presented in the direction of the neck of the tumour, which may be extended at either end as occasion requires. The cellular texture and fat are then care- fully divided on a director, or by a scratching dissection with the scalpel and forceps; this precaution will be necessary, as the integu- mental incision may have almost at once exposed the sac, so little is there seen of the separate layers or coverings of hernia as distinguished in the diagrammatic descriptions given in anatomical works. An anatomical or inexperienced operator may make as many layers of covering as he pleases; and with no harm to the operation, but perhaps with safety to the patient. Any small bleeding artery had better be secured by a twist with the forceps, lest it should obscure a clear view of the sac. This will be i^ecognized by its tension and whitish appear- ance ; thin and translucent, and often coloured from the hernial con- tents, in recent hernia; thick and opaque white, and not transmitting any colour, in old hernia. To open the sac, a little bit should be pinched up with the forceps, and by a slight rotation having ascertained that no portion of intestine is included, the knife is laid flat and a small button-hole aperture made under the point of the forceps; usually, but not always, a little serous fluid will escape, having a yellowish or brownish colour, according to the state of the hernia, and a small bleb of glistening intestine or a bit of granular fatty omentum, more or less darkened in colour, may rise up through the aperture in the sac. A director is introduced, and care taken that it lies entirely between the gut and the sac, no portion of bowel overlapping. This can perhaps be plainly seen through the more translucent peritoneal sac of a recent hernia; but with an opaque sac, it will be advisable to use the broad director as a safeguard. Then, introducing a probe-pointed bistoury along the groove of the directoi-, the sac is slit up towards its neck— the usual seat of stricture ; and turning round the instrument, a slit is made towards the fundus, so as to thoroughly expose the hernial con- tents. A practised operator will perhaps prefer the finger to a broad director, and I almost habitually use it as such instead. The seat of stricture is sought for by gently examining the visceral contents of the sac. Situated commonly at the neck of the sac, tlie protrusion is there constricted and pedunculated. The stricture will, therefore, not generally be visible, but it can be easily felt. Before