SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 296 there is difGiculty in sucking, and eventually indistinct articulation in the adult. This defect can easily be remedied, by snipping the bridle across with blunt-pointed scissors; observing to direct their points downwards just to avoid the ranine arteries. Not unfrequently, mothers request such relief very unnecessarily. Other congenital defects are very seldom met with, and therefore have less practical importance. The tongue may be found adherent to the floor of the mouth, an instance of which malformation is recorded by M. Sernin; or the union exists in the form of membranous bands, as in three cases mentioned by Maurrain ; and in the adult, a similar condition is sometimes the result of sloughing. Any such restraint to the free movements of the organ will interfere with its functions, in sucking, mastication, and speech. But the tongue, when bound down by adhesion, can be dissected up, or the bands divided; care being taken to prevent reunion by passing the finger between the surfaces once or twice daily during cicatrization. Excessive mobility of the tongue may be due to congenital looseness of attachment, or acquired by a too free division of the frgenum for tongue- tie. In either case, the organ is liable to be turned back and swallowed, causing suifocation. An unnaturally long tongue may be an occasional form of actual monstrosity; in a girl, according to Fournier's descrip- tion, the tongue was so long, that when protruded, with head erect, the tip reached to her chest. Bifid tongue is a rare congenital defect; and which admits of reparation, by paring the edges of the cleft, and bring- ing the parts together with sutures, as for cleft palate. Absence of the tongue merits notice; for in a case narrated by M. de Jussiew, the powers of speech and taste were nevertheless enjoyed. Diseases.—Prolapsus of the tongue may undoubtedly occur; it having been noticed by Zacchias in 1628, Bertholin, Sauvages, Percy, Laurent, Mirault, Maurant, Lassus, Crosse, Listen, Clanny, Hodgson, Teale, and other Surgeons. In a case recorded by Professor Humphry, the organ was enormously enlarged, both in circumference and length; the portion immediately within the lips having five inches circular measurement, and when the tongue was drawn into the mouth as far as possible, the length from the upper lip to its tip measured two inches. The pro- truded organ had been habitually suspended in a bag from the head. It was soft and supple, but of a granular or warty appearance, with deep clefts, owing to hypertrophy and separation of the papilla?; the colour remaining natural. The opening of the mouth was enlarged, the lower lip everted, and the angles of the mouth depressed; elon- gating and giving a peculiar expression to the face. The orifices of the sublingual ducts, also enlarged, were situated just in fi'ont of the edge of the lip; and thence the saliva dribbled continually from the end of the tongue, to the amount of more than half a pint daily. The mental portion of the jaw and inferior incisor teeth had become everted by constant pressure of the tongue, forming a curvature in which the organ lay; and a wide interval existed between the teeth, which, even when the mouth was closed and the molars were in contact, was nearly two inches in extent between the upper and lower incisors. This condition of the tongue may be congenital, or acquired as a consequence of profuse salivation. It is attributable to hypertrophy, or possibly to a paralytic state of the retractor muscles of the tongue.