178 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. (3.) Abscess in the Braim, may be superficial or deep. The difficulty ■will be to determine this question. Having trephined the skull, in con"- sequence of compression-symptoms, one of two conditions may be found. Matter may at once escape through an opening in the dura mater, that membrane having sloughed over a communicating abscess. The difficulty is solved. But if the membrane be entire, without bulging under the trephine-aperture, and with symptoms still of com- pression, the question again rises as to the situation of the matter, superficially or deeply in the brain. In this doubtful condition, the dura Inater has been divided; yet the patient has died with an abscess then discovered, situated just below, under the cortical substance of the brain, and thus provokingly close to the trephine-aperture; or again the abscess, so placed, has burst subsequently, and the patient entirely recovered. The one case—that of leaving the brain intact with a fatal result—happened to Roux; the other—that of natural evacuation of the matter ensuing with recovery—happened to J. L. Petit. The fair inference is this—that if an abscess can be reasonably suspected to be situated superficially, as shown by the state of the brain at the part exposed, a slight incision into the brain may be made to discover and evacuate the matter. Deep, or central abscess, also, might be in- terrogated in the same way, and for similar reasons. Dupuytren punctured the brain an inch deep, and at once saved the life of his patient. Dr. Detmold also made deep incisions into the brain, on three different occasions in the same case; the first saved the man from impending death ; the latter two, touching the left ventricle, seemed to afford the only chance of recovery. But it is not probable that such deep incisions will be repeated by other Surgeons. Operation of Trephining.—The conditions of Head-injury, with compression, which render this operation necessary or judicious, have been already fully considered in connection with Fractures, and Com- pression, as arising from intra-cranial extravasation, or from intra- cranial suppuration, consequent Fig. 607. on Traumatic Inflammation. The operation itself remains to be de- scribed. The instruments requisite arc a trephine or trepan, small or large-sized, according to the pur- pose of the operation—either the removal of a portion of bone as the source of compression, or the evacuation of subjacent fluid, ex- travasated blood, or pus. An ele- vator and Hey's saw are the only other special instruments. The head is to be shaved around the seat of operation; the bone, if not already exposed by a scalp- wound, must then be laid bare by a crucial, or T-shaped incision. The trephine, with its centre-pin pro- truding and fixed into the sknll, should be woi'ked from left to ri^glit, with a firm, and even-moving, but light-bearing action. (Fig. 607.