ATROPHY, AND FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS, OF THE TESTICLE. 837 sorption of the secreting portion of the gland—the tubuli seminiferi leaving only the fibrous tunica albuginea, and septa between the lobules, as the remnant organ. The epididymis generally remains ; its fall size contrasting with that of the testis, which may be reduced to the size of a bean, or perhaps a mere nodule, having still an ovoid shape, but of flabby softness, and slipping about in a pendulous scro- tum, when compi-essed between the thumb and finger. Impotency and loss of sexual power attend this condition, if both testes ai'e atro- phied ; but the wasting of only one is often compensated by enlarge- ment and increased functional power of the othe^. Testicular atrophy may be the result of various coexisting struc- tural conditions, which have already been described. Hijdroaeh is an occasional cause, by pressure of the fluid in the tunica vaginalis; and sometimes in consequence of the contraction of lymph effused in chronic hydrocele, or more frequently in Hcematocele. Diseases of the testicle, also, result in absorption of the glandular substance; some- what in proportion to the extent and persistence of any morbid deposit, or the formation of new growths, within the testis. Thus, atrophy may ensue from orchitis, acute or chronic; and more especially in the chronic form, with syphilitic intertubular deposit, or with scrofulous intertubular deposit. Obliteration of the vas deferens, from inflam- mation, is apt to cause atrophy of the testis ; although the function of the organ may be thereby long suspended or lost without this result. Varicocele is an occasional cause, and obliteration of the spermatic veins by operations for the cure of this condition. Occlusion of the . spermatic artery, as by an abdominal aneurism, has been known to induce testicular atrophy. Hernia, oft recurring or irreducible, has the same effect, probably by compression of all the constituents of the ' cord. The pressure of a truss, constantly worn, will act in like manner, and may result in atrophy of the testicle. Elephantiasis of the scrotum may be mentioned, as having the same effect. Functional excitement of the organs, from excessive venery, or from self-abuse, has an atrophying inflaence; and injury of the back of the head, a similar tendency, : apparently by affecting the cerebellum; but injury or diseases of the . brain or of the spinal cord, attended with paralysis, are not unknown : as causes. In elderly persons, the testes are rather small and flaccid, but otherwise healthy ; and the epididymis is sometimes thickened and i indurated, with a similar state of the vasa defei^entia, and opaque white 1 spots in their walls. No particular Treatment can be directed for a condition, the causes I of which are so diversified and often irremovable. And any beneficial 1 effect must be of a preventive character; the restoration of a lost portion of secreting structure being impossible. Functional Disorders of the Testicle are associated with Func- !tional Disorders of the whole Generative Apparatus, constituting Spermatorrhoea and Impotence. Sjyermatorrlioea, or Seminal Emissions, easily excited and oft recur- iring. This disorder may occur either as passive discharges of seminal t fluid, without much, if any, ejaculation or even previous erection, or las emissions, with spasmodic ejaculation and perhaps erection. In the (one form of the disorder, seminal discharge takes place before erection ; iin the other, erection and ejaculation arc often simultaneous acts, or I erection may subside before ejaculation. In both conditions therefor©