321 ABSCESS OP THE ANTRUM. i nth which would be far from certain, would repay the patient for hP eitra time over which the treatment would extend. Oftentimes free vent being given to the pus alone effects a cure, 1 it should it fail to do so, mild astringent lotions should be used to wnsh the cavity out two or three times a day. This the patient may be . +ano-ht to do by the help of a glass syringe connected, by a short piece f rubber tubino-, with the end of a gum elastic catheter of as large size Z wiU enter the orifice. As a rule, there is little trouble if the opening be laro-e • and if an offensive discharge continues for any length of time, i-f is o?obable that a piece of dead bone, or some foreign body, is keep- Lcr up the irritation. It must not be forgotten that the coincidence of , a second tooth, with abscessed roots entering the antrum, is not impos- sible A case of this kind occurred in my own practice, and was only detected by me after many months, by passing a bent probe into the • cavity and feeling over the walls, when it struck on the bare roots of ' another tooth, the next to the one which had been the original cause. ■ The removal of this brought about an immediate cure. Care should be taken that food does not enter the orifice made. ' This may be closed by a plate fitted over it, or by temporary plugs of > wax, which often answer the purpose, but 5ire liable to the accident . of being pushed in, and being then difficult to remove. Roots or i fragments of roots may be driven up into the antrum in the attempt I to extract them. They should always be got out, as their presence I there is sure to set up an offensive discharge. Strong syringing will ! generally bring such things away, if the orifice be sufficiently patent. A case of abscess of the antrum, resulting in a discharge of pus I between the eye and lower eyelid, and in complete blindness for I thirteen months, was traced to a splinter (probably of a tooth-pick) ] pushed up through the apical foramen of the roots of a dead first i upper molar. Complete recovery ensued. Several cases are on record of blindness, temporary or permanent, I ensuing upon antral abscess. Death has been known to ensue from a ! neglected antral abscess. /SimpZe cijsts may occur in the antrum (Hydrops antri), or denti- : gerous cysts may be found in the same situation. The absence of any . one of the teeth would always lead to the suspicion that an enlarge- ; ment of the maxilla was due to the latter cause. The inflammation originating about the root of a tooth may spread very much more widely, and the periosteum covering the outer surface of the jaw become involved, so that large accumulations of matter may take place beneath it. The pus, if not evacuated by nature or by an incision within the mouth, may form an opening on the exterior of the face, and a fistulous track remain for an indefinite length of time. When a lower incisor has been involved, the fistula is found about the chin, generally in front of, but in one case, at all events, behind the edge of the bone. These fistulae almost always heal at once when the tooth or stump is removed; biit when the track is very hard and fibrous,, and ties down the fistulous opening so tightly as to be an extra disfigurement, its subcutaneous division from the mouth is a very serviceable procedure,—the patient carrying out the treatment by freely moving the soft parts about with the finger for some time afterwards, so as to secure the permanence of the increased mobility. Necrosis, very partial or very extensive, may follow up alveolar VOL. II. Y