179 OPERATION OP TREPHINING. A fair groove having been thus made, the steadying centre-pin is no lono-er necessary, and should be withdrawn, lest, passing more deeply, it penetrate the skull first and wound the brain. Complete division of the outer table, and entrance into the diploe, will he plainly shown by the altered character of the detritus thrown up by the saw—the dry, white flour of the hard bone being succeeded by bloody and soft grit, A sensation of yielding in entering and passing through the diploe is also very perceptible. It should be remembered that no diploe will be found either in children or the aged. The instrument must now be worked very lightly and cautiously, and withdrawn every turn or two as it approaches the dura mater, in order that the groove may be examined with a probe—a pointed piece of wood or quill—to ascertain the depth and uniformity of penetration around the circular piece of bone. When it seems loosened, an elevator is gently introduced into the groove, and the portion of bone removed. The particular object of the operation can now be accomplished. Pus or blood will escape or may be evacuated ; or a depressed portion of bone can be raised, by insinuating the elevator beneath it and bearing on the finger or the edge of the firm bone as a fulcrum. This implies that in trephining for fracture, the circular piece, or half circle, of bone removed must communicate with the edge of the depressed portion and afEord space for its elevation. Sometimes, a projecting portion of bone can be removed with a Hey's saw, or bone-pliers, and space thus made for the introduction of the elevator, without using the trephine. Certain parts of the skull' are also ineligible for trephining; namely, over the occipital bone, in the course of the venous sinuses, and over the frontal sinuses. In the latter situation, however, the outer table may be first removed and then the inner. In any situation, loose fragments or debris of bone must be carefully picked or brushed out, and the wound gently sponged clean; the scalp is then laid down, retained with a few sutures, if necessary, and a strip of water-dressing applied. The after-treatment consists entirely in measures preventive or curative of inflammation and its consequences. The results of this operation have been very unfavourable. In the Parisian Hospitals, Nelaton reports, of sixteen cases during fifteen years, that aU have terminated fatally ; this mortality, however, including cases that would have died from the injury of the brain for which the operation was performed. In the Hospitals of Great Britain—England, Ireland, and Scotland —the mortality, although very high, has been much less; and in those of the United States, the proportion, according to Seuter and Gross, is one recovery to four deaths. The chance of only one to four in favour of life is sufiicient to jastify the operation under the pressing circum- stances for which alone it is now resorted to,—as the sole chance of preserving life. The more or less successful results of trephining for gunshot fractures of the skull have been already noticed in connection with these injuries. Tumours op the Head.—(1.) The Scalf is liable to be the seat of Cysts or Wens, containing sebaceous matter; or Yascular tumours, as Nsevi. Cy&ta not unfrequently form on the head, from enlargement of the