406 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 739 * tS.W ^''^'t^' consequent deformity of the spinal columr, ihis anchylos^s is the natural cure of disease of the spine,-! not uj: common event, especially when aided by proper treatment; the patient, however remaining deformed. (Fig. 739.) * In a case of angular curvature, at the junction of the last dorsal and upper lumbar vertebras, and of two years and a half duration from the symptom of fall, ing weakness, I succeeded in inducing anchylosis by the recumbent position con- tinued for nine weeks, when the patient had sufficiently recovered to take gentle walking exercise. After the lapse of nine months, he could walk ten miles a day, and has since become a hansom cab- driver,—bearing the constant pull of the reins without any return of the spinal disease. Presenting abscess represents the pn- tavourable course of spinal disease, as implying the continued formation of matter and destruction of the spinal column. The abscess presents or makes its appearance in a variable period;—early, with weakness of the spine and before any deformity; or at a later period, after months or perhaps years. It appears in various situations; according to which, abscesses connected with spinal disease are nominally dis- tinguished, irrespective of the particular parts of the column whence they arise. The route of any such abscess, "by translation," is often very devious and extensive. Psoas abscess is the most common, and typical. The matter arising from the dorsal or the lumbar vertebrse, enters the sheath and sub- stance of the psoas muscle,—passing in the former case through the diaphragm near the ligamentum arcuatum. Following the line of the muscle, the matter descends obliquely outwards, and passing under Poupart's ligament, appears in the groin ; where, by extending upon the thigh, it may burrow to the knee, as a large and increasing femoral abscess. A double psoas abscess forms occasionally; the collection of matter at the spine bifurcates, and passing down within the sheaths of both psoas muscles, emerges in both thighs. The symptovis of psoas abscess, as regards its connection with disease of the spine, are somewhat equivocal. The presence of an abscess may be detected in the groin, or even in the iliac region, by the usual symptoms;—a fluid and fluctuating swelling, which is par- tially emptied of its contents when the patient lies in the recumbent position, and which yields a fluctuation to and fro on careful palpation yrith one hand placed over the iliac fossa and the other over the swell- ing m the groin. But the communicating channel—under Poupart's ligament—may contract, whereby the abscess in the thigh becomes circumscribed and isolated ; as if it were a distinct chronic abscess, connected with diseased femur, instead of proceeding from the spine. Diagnosis.—The origin of abscess in the groin is various. It may proceed:—(1) from bubo or glandular abscess; (2) from disease of * Royal Free Hospital. Disease, and excurvation, of lumbar vertebraj. (Author.)