SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE BLADDER, PROSTATE GLAND, ETC. 617 The arteries of the penis are branches of the internal pudic artery (Fig-. 856), namely, the two arteries of the bulb, distributed to the erectile structure of the corpus spongiosum; the dorsal artery, sup- plying the glans penis; and the two arteries of the corpora cavernosa, distributed to the erectile structure of these bodies, which constitute the body of the penis. The arterial vessels having penetrated the fibrous coat of the spongy and cavernous bodies, they ramify as a capillary network, supported by fibrous prolongations from the sheath, or trabeculge ; which, in the shape of bands and cords, in all directions across the sheath, leave inter-trabecular spaces. A median fibrous partition—septum pectmiforme—separates the two corpora cavernosa; but the comb-like clefts of this septum, passing from the dorsal to the urethral margin, allow a free vascular intercommunication, except at the root of the penis, where the septum is entire. Companion veins to each of the two pairs of arteries form plexuses, which occupy the inter-trabecular spaces in the spongy and cavernous bodies; but the veins in the spongy structure do not communicate with those of Fig. 857.* the cavernous structure. The inter-trabecular veins, for the most part, emerge from the bulb and cavernous bodies at the root of the penis, and enter the prostatic plexus; while the dorsal vein, coming from the glans, and lying with the artery in the groove on the back of the penis, also enters the prostatic plexus. Lymphatics proceed from the urethral mucous membrane, that of the glans also, and from the skin of the prepuce, as a network, from which emergent vessels enter the inguinal lymphatic glands ; but some deep lymphatics, from the spongy and cavernous bodies, pass under the pubic arch to the lymphatics in the pelvis. • * Perineum, in Male; showing nerves.—1. Internal pudic. 2. Dorsal nerve of penis. 3. Perineal nerve. 4. External superficial perineal branch. 5. Internal superficial perineal branch. 6. Musoulo-bulbal nerve. 7. Inferior h;Bmorrlioidal. ». Nerve to internal obturator muscle. 9. Small sciatic nerve. 10. Muscular of amail sciatic to gluteus maximus. 11. Genito-crural. 12. Inferior pudendal uerve. Id. Nerves of diartos (netsvork of inferior pudendal on scrotum). 14 Great sciatic norvc. lo. Nerve to pyriforinis muscle. (After liirscbfeld and Le'veilJo.)