455 AMPUTATION OF THE BKEAST. ■nrolpngecl upwards towards tlie axilla when necessary, to allow the removal of any affected glands. In removing the tumour, the dis- section should be carried wide of the disease and fairly into sound tissue around, in order to completely extirpate the diseased mass. It may be more convenient, in concluding the operation, to extend the axillary junction of the incisions, so as to reach any diseased glands ; then- connection with the breast will enable the Surgeon to drag them out of the axilla, when they can be readily detached by successive touches with the knife. If the glands be removed after the breast, they may be seized with artery-forceps or a vulsellum, and dissected out. The operation-wound should be carefully examined, to see that no part of the gland or affected portion of cellular texture remain behind. Non-malignant tumour of any kind, and which does not involve the whole of the mammary gland, may admit of removal by suitable incisions, without including the nipple. In several such cases of mammary tumours, I have thus succeeded in preserving a comely breast. Arteries bleeding must be tied or twisted; they ai'e pi'Incipally ■ situated towards the axillary aspect of the wound. Sometimes, in ■ removing the tumour, it may be desirable to secure the vessels as they are divided, in order to prevent the loss of blood when the patient was previously exhausted, and to enable the operator to see his way in applying the knife, when the tumour is unusually large and vascular. . At the same time, the subclavian artery should be compressed by an : assistant. If the tumour removed be non-malignant, only one or two- ' vessels may have to be secured; removal of a malignant tumour will ] probably necessitate the ligature or torsion of numerous and large- • sized arterial branches, which are supplied to this more active form of ; growth ; and venous htemorrhage may require control. Cold ablution ' win generally arrest any oozing hsemorrhage, arterial or venous. The I lips of the wound should then be brought together by points of fine ' wire suture; and the support of two or three strips of plaster, with a < compress of Hnt and a bandage, will prevent any subcutaneous haemor- ' rhage and bagging in the loose integument. Primary union sometimes I takes .place, and in a few days; but more frequently this union is i spurious, and the wound opens up partially at least, with suppuration, i and heals by granulation. Secondary haemorrhage may necessitate a : reopening of the wound, and the application of ligatures. Eventually a sound, puckered cicatrix is presented; or perhaps a recurrent form of growth, when the original tumour was malignant. rnNCTiONAL Disorders of the Breast.—(1.) Abnormal secretion of - Milk.—This disorder relates to the age of the woman, and is unasso- ciated with pregnancy. The breasts of old women have been known to ^ secrete milk; and it has formed at a very early age,—eight years. In s some women, reputed virgins, the breasts have secreted a troublesome quantity of milk ; and I have seen the lacteal secretion excited in a woman nearly fifty years of age, after sexual intercourse ; she havinc i borne eleven children. (2.) Excessive lacteal secretion, or Galactorrlicea.—The milk may be constantly dribbling away; or the secretion may continue af ter weanino- * snddenly, or at the termination of the proper period. This undue secre° tion is suppressed most effectually by the application of the extract of