880 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 720. of the incision in the trachea may be held aside with a hook, while the tube is slipped in ; or the aperture may be made and expanded with M. Garin's trachea-forceps dilator ; or Dr. Fuller's bivalve tube can be readily introduced, closed, and a cannula passed through it. A double tube is always preferable to a single one, especially if there be much expectoration, as the inner tube can be taken out and cleansed. The tube is retained by tapes round the neck. (Fig, 720.) When the patient wishes to cough or speak, he must be instructed to close the orifice of the tube with his finger. The rectangular tracheotomy-tube (Fig. 721) of Mr. Durham, though not quite so easy to introduce, is much more easily retained than the old-fashioned curved cannulge. The old curved tube, in order to be retained, has to pass at least an inch down the trachea, whilst Mr. Durham's tube does not reach down further than half an inch. The old tube also exercises a constant pres- sure on the anterior wall of the trachea, and is easily tilted out in fits of coughing. The descending portion of the right-angled tube, on the other hand, adapts itself to every movement of the windpipe. A firm handle, with a key termi- nating in an oval point, passes into the cannula, and enables the operator Fig. 721.* C to introduce the instrument into the incised windpipe. An ingenious screw arrangement also permits the horizontal portion of the cannula to be fixed to the shield in such a way that it corresponds to the thick- ness of the tissues between the skin and the trachea. For many years no other tracheotomy-tube has been used at the Hospital for Diseases of the Throat, where eight or ten operations are performed annually. . , After-treatment must have regard to the free passage of air througa the tube, and of air duly warmed,—now that the breath is drawn more directly into the lungs, instead of passing through the nose or * A, Durham's tracheotomy-tube, showing the screw arrangement for lengthenm,-' and shortening the horizontal portion of the tube; b, the inner tube,wljicn nab . lobster-joiuted termination; o, the plug and handle for introducing the caunuia.