704 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. serviceable, and an injecting apparatus will be required, consisting of large-eyed catheters of different sizes, and a strong, large-sized brass syringe, tbe nozzle of which fits the catheters. Preparation of the Patient for Lithotrity.—Prior to any operation for breaking np a stone in the bladder, it is absolutely necessary that not only should the general health be attended to, but that the bladder, more especially, should be brought into as quiet a condition as possible. Freedom from vesical irritability or inflammation is more important in relation to lithotrity than to lithotomy ; the former operation being perhaps an unavoidably more prolonged procedure within the bladder, a repeated operation, and one which leaves fragments of stone behind as a continued source of irritation during their discharge. Hence, if the bladder or kidneys be diseased, lithotrity should be postponed or abandoned. Lithotrity is thus performed:—The patient having been placed re- cumbent on a bed or couch of convenient height, the pelvis should be slightly raised on an unyielding pillow so as to bring the lower fundus of the bladder in a line with the urethral orifice; the head and shoulders should be supported by pillows, and the legs separated and somewhat flexed. Chloroform may, or may not, be administered. Civiale and Sir B. Brodie were both averse to its anaesthetic influence, alleging that the feelings of the patient are a safe guide in two essential matters—as to whether any injury is being inflicted on the bladder, and whether the operative proceeding is continued beyond what the bladder and constitution are capable of enduring. But, assuming a due manipulative skill in using the lithotrite, the irritable state of the bladder, and a nervous, restless state of the patient, in many cases, will as often render the influence of chloroform an invaluable or indispensable adjunct in performing lithotrity. The bladder is first emptied, and then injected with tepid water until it contains from about five to seven ounces of fluid, in order that its cavity shall be sufficiently distended to remove the mucous membrane from the blades of the lithotrite in seeking the stone, and to make room for crushing without injuring the bladder by splintering. In old cases of stone, the bladder may be so thickened and irritable, as to eject a few spoonfuls of fluid; then the injection must be repeated very slowly and gradually, pausing occa- sionally, until the bladder becomes accustomed to the increasing dis- tension. Some lithotritists, as Sir W. Fergusson and Sir H. Thomp- son, dispense with injection, as being unnecessary or prejudicial, and allow the urine to be retained instead. But on no account, without sufficient dilatation of the bladder, should the operation be proceeded with. Then the Surgeon, standing on the right side of the patient, as the most convenient position, introduces the warmed and oiled litho- trite cautiously along the urethra. The abrupt curve of this instru- ment, unlike the arched curve of the cathetei', and resembling that of a sound, must be remembered as soon as the instrument reaches the curved portion of the uretha. By depressing the handle slowly down to a right angle with the perineum, the end of the lithotrite is brought into the direction of the canal under the pubic arch, and thence passed gently into the bladder. A slight rotatory movement with the instrument will always indicate when it has entered the bladder. Seizure of the stone may be effected in either of two ways: by