UMBILICAL HERNIA. 53D navel; or it unfolds and distends, until the tumour reappears as before. As the hernial protrusion increases, the tumour assumes other forms according to the anatomical relations of the umbilical aperture, in point of its size and position with regard to the protrusion. Hence a pendulous tumour is presented, semilunar transversely, or pyriform, with the aperture towards its upper part; or a round, flattened, and. sessile, or nearly stalkless tumour. In the congenital form of umbilical hernia, the tumour consisting of a dilated portion of the cord, it may be recoo-nized by its smooth, ti-anslucent appearance, the skin around the base of the swelling not being prolonged over the cord. The base of the tumour corresponds with the umbilical aperture; from the apex the cord is continued. UmbUical hernia often attains a large size, and an irregular shape as if consisting of several tumours, owing probably to the yielding of its fascial or tendinous coverings at different parts; it has also a partly doughy and tympanitic consistence, according to the visceral nature of its contents. Lumps of feculent matter are apt to accumu- late in the intestine when protruded, and which can be readily felt through the thin sac and lax abdominal coverings. Accordingly, the patient often suifers from dyspeptic symptoms and constipation. ^ But the mechanical inconvenience of a large umbilical protrusion is an additional source of distress to the person thus afflicted. The tumour hanging down perhaps to the pubes, any exertion becomes burthen- some, and the thin skin which encloses the mass readily excoriates. When adhesions to the sac have taken place, the tumour is proportion- ately irreducible. This kind of hernia occurs mostly in infancy, at birth before the cord is detached, or before the umbilical aperture has closed ; or in adult life, and indeed at any period of life ; and in both sexes. Females are most liable, and especially those who have borne many children, or have a tendency to abdominal obesity. Ascites is sometimes attended with an umbilical protrusion, but which contains only the fluid of dropsy. The immediate cause, as in other herniEe, is some straining effort of the abdominal muscles; as by the act of crying in children, coughing or parturition in adults and females. Treatment.—Beducible umbilical hernia should be returned, and then a proper truss-support must be fitted, and worn, over the hernial aperture. Reduction is accomplished by gently compressing the swelling directly backwards, raising it slightly from below the navel where the larger portion of the protrusion rests. At the same time, the abdominal muscles should be relaxed by flexing the thighs towards the belly, and somewhat elevating the chest; although this position of the patient has less effect than in other hernias, as the resistance is principally due to the tendinous character of the umbilical aperture, and the abdomen is often lax and pendulous. Some time may be required to return the protrusion, which is often of large size; and owing to the nature of its contents, I have found it necessary to knead back into the abdomen masses of feculent accumulation, before the bowel could be returned, followed by omentum. After reduction, the Surgeon proceeds to close the umbilical aperture with a properly adapted truss. In infancy, an elastic india-rnbber belt, with an air-pad, affords the most effectual support; or a simpler and more ready contrivance is a slice of cork