AMPUTATIONS OP THE FOOT. 119 wound. Pig. 574.* stump, and the less liability to sloughing of the heel-flap—the plantar arteries always being cut long and the general vascular communica- tions remaining undisturbed. The disadvantages are the greater liability to osteo-phlebitis, owing to the section of two osseous sur- faces ; and the recurrence of disease in the portion of calcaneum left in the heel-flap. This latter objection, however, does not apply to the amputation when performed for injury. Professor Pirrie has devised a simplification of this operation also, and one which inclades his modification of Syme's amputation. The OS calcis is sawn from beloiu,—upwards and backwards ; and then— having made the anterior incision—the tibia and fibula are sawn through jast above the malleoli, without previous disarticulation of the foot. But the downward section has always seemed to me more handy. Amputation by a large internal flap.—According to the directions given by Professor Spence, the foot is held resting on its outer side. The knife is entered over the tendo-Achillis, and an incision carried obliquely across towards the outer and plantar aspect of the heel, then carving inwards across the sole of the foot, and upwards in front of the inner malleolus to a point beyond the tendon of the tibialis anticus muscle; thence the incision is continued over the dorsum of the foot, about an inch below the ankle-joint, and terminates at the point of commencement. The large flap is raised, avoiding the posterior tibial artery. Disarticulation at the ankle-joint is then effected, and a thin section of the tibia and fibula removed, just above the malleoli, as in Syme's amputation. The advantages of this modification, in the formation of the flap, are said to be the easy retention of the flap in position, by the tendency of its own weight, and the facility for discharge from the dependent angle of the Sub-astragaloid Amputation.— Removal of the foot below the astragalus is analo- gous to Syme's amputation; that bone being left and the operation performed be- tween it and the calcaneum, at the articu- lation of these bones. A heel-flap having been made, as in Syme's amputation, an anterior incision lays open the articulation between the astragalus and scaphoid bone, as in Chopart's amputation; the knife is then passed backward between the astra- galus and calcaneum, dividing the inter- osseous and other ligamentous connections, and the foot is removed. A longer, and so far more useful, stump (Fig. 574) remains than after Syme's amputation at the ankle-joint; but sub-astragaloid amputation is comparatively rarely eligible,—only when the astragalus is not involved. Hancock's Operation consists in amputation of the feet below the astragalus, leaving the posterior third of the os calcis, which is turned up against the under surface of the astragalus (Pig. 574), prepared for its * Diagram of stump after sub-astragaloid amputation—1, ast.ragahis. Hancock's modification of this amputation—1, astragaUis; 2, upturned portion '1 OS calcis.