814 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEHY. small glass syringe. Various fluids have been used—port wine, spirits of wine, sulphate of zinc in the proportion of a drachm to the pint of water ; but the most effectual kind of injection is tincture of iodine, to the amount of two or three drachms. The injection may be allowed to reinain in the sac ; or allowed to escape, after the lapse of a short period varying from a few minutes to half an hour, according to the practice of some Surgeons. Two practical points should be observed in using the injection: firstly, that the slit in the cannula be completely within the tunica vaginalis, before throwing in the fluid: secondly, while withdrawing the cannula, the sac should be nipped against it between the finger and the thumb. Both these precautions are with the view of preventing any escape of the injection into the cellular tissue between the skin and sac ; an accident which would probably be followed by diffuse in- flammation and sloughing, particularly in a weakly patient. The immediate effects of injection are more or less severe ; pain, extending up the cord into the abdomen, and perhaps attended with faintness; a transversely puckered appearance of the scrotum I have also seen produced, by contraction of the dartos, and some degree of priapism. 4/^er-treatment is simple. The patient should rest for a few days. In the course of twenty-four hours, inflammatory effusion will have taken place into the sac, and the swelling may be reproduced to nearly its original size, looking almost as if the hydrocele had not been tapped. This is a good sign, announcing the probability of a radical cure ensuing. The degree of pain produced is no criterion of the curative efficacy of injection. At the time of operation, sudden and severe pain may be excited immediately the stimulating fluid touches the tunica vaginalis, and which becomes excruciating ; yet without much, if any, inflammation being induced. Conversely, there may be little pain and much inflammation. According to the degree of inflammatory swelling produced, it will be necessary to regulate the process ; by handling the scrotum on the affected side to promote effusion, or by cold lotions to moderate it. Orchitis, to some extent, accompanies the inflammatory effusion within the sac; thus presenting a mixed swelling, cedematous to the touch superficially, hard and tense when felt deeper. In a few j days, also, as the scrotal swelling subsides, that of the testicle becomes more obvious. The cure of hydrocele seems to be effected in two ways : either in consequence of adhesive inflammation, whereby the cavity of the •tunica vaginalis is obliterated more or less completely; or by the mere passing of inflammation upon this membrane, whereby its secretory power is so modified as to restore the balance between absorption and I secretion of the serous fluid which naturally lubricates the surface of I the tunic. Failures occur, either by an absence of inflammation, or by I an excess, with undue effusion or deficient absorption of the super- M fluous effusion, the tunica vaginalis remaining distended with fluid. ■ Suppuration very rarely supervenes; Sir B. Brodie witnessed it in ■ three cases, and Mr. Curling has seen one such case. Occasionally, the fl hydrocele has returned, and then gradually disappeared. But geuerally ■ the cure by injection is permanent, entitling it to be designated the ■ radical cure of hydrocele; although sometimes the fluid has returned ■ after a lapse of years. ■