SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. GIO lateral, of equal size, separated only by a median furrow on tbe upper and lower surfaces of the gland, and by a notch at the base; witliin •which interval is placed the middle or third lobe. The mass of the •gland, having this lobed arrangement, is encapsuled within a fibrous coat, consisting of two layers: an external dense layer, or an ensheath- ing prolongation from the recto-vesical fascia, as already mentioned; and an inner, thin, membranous investment, which sends processes into the interior of the gland, supporting its substance. Between these two layers of the capstde, a plexus of veins, the prostatic plexus, is enclosed. The substance of the gland has a reddish or brownish colour; its texture is spongy or firm to the touch, although not so dense as when felt through the fibrous coat, with perhaps also the thickness of the rectum intervening; and it yields or lacerates under pressure with the finger,—splitting in the direction of its grain, the prostatic ducts, as when, in the operation of lithotomy, the prostatic incision is enlarged by introducing the finger into the bladder. The glandular substance consists of numerous small terminal follicles, which, in the form of clusters, surround and open into the elementary ducts; these, having a branched arrangement, unite into the excretory ducts, about twelve to twenty in number, which open by as many orifices upon the floor of t,he prostatic portion of the urethra. The epithelium in the follicular terminations is squamous, and in the ducts, columnar. Section of the gland shows the ducts, which appear as white lines or minute apertures, according to the direction of their division. Richly supplied with blood-vessels, the arteries are branches of the vesical, h^moiThoidal, and pudic arteries, which, passing into the substance of the gland, ramify and form a capillary network around the ducts and clusters of follicles; the prostatic veins form a plexus around the gland, between the two layers of its fibrous capsule, and this venous plexus communi- cates in front with the dorsal vein of the penis, but behind with the plexus of veins at the neck, base, and sides of the bladder, thence pass- ing into the internal iliac veins. This continuous plexus of veins— prostatic and vesical—becomes enlarged in old subjects,_and is often the source of troublesome haemorrhage when wounded in lithotomy. Lymphatic vessels, with the veins, ramify beneath the dense external layer of the fibrous capsule. Nerves are derived from the pelvic hypo- gastric plexuses on either side of the bladder, prolongations from which form the prostatic plexus of nerves. The prostatic fluid, or secretion of the gland, mixed with the semmal fluid, is discharged in the act of emission. But the nature of this fluid, in itself, is not well known. After death, when fresh, it has a milky white tint, an acid reaction, and abounds with granular matter and epithelial particles, squamous and columnar. Urethra —The urethra is a membranous tube, which extends from the neck of the bladder to the end of the penis. The length of this tube averages nine or ten inches, when the penis is flaccid, but admits of some elongation during erection of tHs organ ; the size of the tube varies in different parts, being about a quarter of an inch m its widest part—the centre of the prostate. The urethral tube consists of mucous membrane, with an outer layer of submucous cellular and elastic tissue ; but it is supported also by the structures through which it passes, and by certain muscular expansions. Lying m the middle line the urethra passes from the bladder through the substance ot tlie