61 EXCISION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. Fig. 511. Operation.—Excision of the elbow-joint, for disease, was originally performed by Justamond, of the Westminster Hospital, in 1775,—as a partial operation, in which the olecranon and two inches of the ulna were removed; complete excision was first performed by Moreau, senior, in 1794, and by Moreau, junior, in 1797; but the operation attracted little attention until it was revived by Stansfield, Chorley, and Hey, of Leeds, in 1818-19; and especially by Syme in 1830_; since which period it has been more generally practised than the excision of any other joint for disease. The operation is thus performed:—a single linear incision |, longi- tudinally over the centre of the joint, and of sufficient length to turn out the bones, is preferable to any other, in relation to a speedy re- covery after operation. Other forms of incision offer certain special operative advantages. An H shape exposes the bones more readily, on reflecting the flaps, thus marked out, upwards and down- wards. (Fig. 511.) A H-shaped incision, with the vertical line parallel to and a little outside the ulnar nerve, allows of its being more surely guarded or drawn in- wards, by a curved retractor in the hands of an assistant. In either case, the transverse lines of these incisions should be made across the end of the olecranon from condyle to condyle; or nearly to the inner condyle, in the latter form of incision; and thus the joint is laid open. But the single longitu- dinal incision is now, I believe, generally practised, and I rarely find any other more convenient. With a little detachment of the integument on either side, the knife is entered transversely above the oleci'anon, dividing the tendon of the triceps,—the ulnar nerve be- ing protected; the olecranon process must then be sawn ©ff transversely, and by forcibly flexing the arm and, perhaps, dividing the lateral ligaments with a light touch of the knife, the articular surfaces of the three bones are fully protruded and exposed. Mr. Maunder has shown the importance of preserving the structures between the external condyle and the olecranon, consisting of the outer portion of the triceps with its tendinous prolongation, the fascia, and the anconeus muscle, forming a continuous band ; whereby active extension of the forearm may be secured. The articular sur- face of the humerus, between the condyles, is excised by means of Butcher's saw (see Fig. 511) ; and the sigmoid surface of the ulna and head of the radius, in like manner, or removed with pliers, or simply gouged. The latter two bones should not be removed below the insertions of the brachialis anticus and biceps muscles ; for thus the brachial artery will be protected by the intervening brachialis muscle from any fair risk of injury, in removing these portions of bone; and, by preserving the insertions of both muscles, the volun- tary flexion of the elbow, eventually, is rendered far more complete. When requisite, a more extensive excision may be made, by applying the saw above the condyles of the humerus across the olecranon