781 TUMOURS, AND CALCULUS, IN THE URliTHRA. careful examination of recorded cases, seems to be of three kinds : vascular granulations, situated generally near the external meatus, or projecting; polypoid formations, peculiar to the prostatic part of the urethra ; masses of tubercular and cancerous origin. Both the latter forms of deposit are rarely primary in the urethra, but secondary to disease of the kidney, bladder, or prostate ; and they seldom appear until the primary disease is far advanced. Either sex is liable to these t^imours. The endoscope, an instrument for inspecting the urethral canal and the interior of the bladder, may afford some aid in detecting and diagnosing urethral formations. Originally suggested by the late Mr. Avery, the instruments devised by Desormeaux, Cruise of Dublin, and Wales of Philadelphia, are more or less useful; Wales's endoscope having the advantages of simplicity and cheapness. The local importance of any such urethral tumour is the degree of obstruction thus offered to the free passage of urine, as a cause of retention. Treatment.—Urethral growths may be removed on the same prin- ciples as similar tumours in other parts—by Excision, Ligature, Caustics, or the Actual Cautery. Excision can generally be accom- plished by means of scissors, aided by dilatation of the urethra. In this way T have succeeded, especially as regards the female urethra, in. removing vascular and erectile growths, which, although not of larger size, were very troublesome. Ligature is difficult, painful, and tedious ; unless the growth be polypoid, when it may be looped with silver wire. Caustic applications, as nitric acid or potassa fusa, can scarcely be restricted in their action to the growth alone; and the actual cautery by means of the galvanic wire will be preferable. Calculus in the Urethra.—Urethral calculus is generally derived from the kidney and bladder, or from a fragment of stone becomino- arrested in some part of the canal; but rarely the calculus form's within the urethra, by deposit in the saccalus or dilatation behind a stricture. Here urine constantly collecting may give rise to concre- tion, or it forms around a particle of calculous matter as a nucleus. The calculus is usually of the lithic acid variety; it more than occupies the calibre of the canal transversely, and assumes an elongated form ; it may attain to a very large size. Several calculi are some- times present; small, smooth, and faceted. The symptoms are obvious; frequent and difficult micturition, bordering on retention ; and the stone may be felt externally in the perineum or detected by introducing a sound, which at once strikes against the calculus, or grates roughly over it when imbedded in a dilated portion of the urethra. Rectal exploration with the finger is often serviceable. Care must be taken, in either case, to guard the canal on the vesical side with the finger, lest the stone be pushed back or might slip back into the bladder. Pain in the situation of the calculus IS sometimes experienced, especially if the stone be rough and movable m the act of micturition; but not unfrequently there is no such symptom, and the calculus lies singularly quiescent and unsus- pected. Ulceration and abscess are liable to ensue, resulting in extravasation or urine, and urinary fistula. Treatment.—The calculus may perchance be expelled in the passage