SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEKY. 418 means additional rest is given, and also the meclianical powers of the instrument are left to exercise a freer inflaence than when opposed by the constant reaction of the patient's weight and muscular resistance. In cases where I have tried an instru- ment only, and in others where recum- bency has also been added, a great difference of progress in favour of the latter course has been observed." By an instrument similar in principle to this, I have succeeded in arresting the increase of one of the worst cases of double lateral curvature. Pi-essure on the dorsal arc, without vertical elongation, as the principle of treatment, is represented by the accom- panying form of spinal instrument,— which is much advocated and in con- stant use. (Fig. 753.) The reduction-couch of Buhring is a means of applying the unfolding principle of treatment to double lateral curvature, by recwmhency. And Dr. Bauer, of Philadelphia, who highly praises this contrivance, observes that it differs from all other spinal couches, and appliances, in this special advantage : that the pads which act on the vertebral curves rest against the transverse and spinous processes, instead of upon the lateral surface of the ribs. Compression of the thorax is thus avoided; whilst, from the thickened shape of the pads, rotation of the vertebrjB is induced. The apparatus, as described by Mr. Bigg, consists of a padded metal plate, sufficiently large to admit of the body reclining upon it. Corresponding with the position of the pelvis, a steel band is fixed which surrounds and firmly retains the hips in contact with the couch. Under the left arm an axillary pad, governed by a long screw, is placed, and it raises the concavity of the upper and dorsal curve, whilst, on the convexity of this curve and the right Fig. 754. Fig. 753. side of the conch, a pad softly covered and shaped like a thick wedge presses upon the transverse and spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae. On the left side, another pad of a similar wedge-shaped form, but le«s in breadth and thickness, rests against the spinous and