429 PNEUMOTHORAX. Pneumothoeax.—Distension of the pleural cavity with air, and an accompanying collapse of the lung, is denoted by certain marked signs ; tvmpanitic resonance on percussion, with an absence of the respiratory murmur and an increased or puerile respiration on the opposite side of the chest, as discovered by auscultation. The affected half of the thorax is enlarged, and the ribs are raised; there is also some bulging of the intercostal spaces. But the movements of respiration are dimin- ished on this side, and the breathing is of course embarrassed in pro- portion to the pleural distension and pulmonary collapse. _ The ca^lses of this condition are, surgically, any occasion of wound of the lung ; whether by a fractured rib, rupture from thoracic compres- sion or a penetrating wound of the chest, as by a stab or bullet. But pneumothorax may also arise from a diseased state of the lung, as the bursting of a pulmonary abscess into the cavity of the pleura; air and fluid thus coexisting in this cavity, the fluid below and the air above. Two distinctive signs are then presented: a splashing sound elicited by succussion or shaking of the chest; and metallic tinkling, a clear, silvery, bell-like sound, resulting perhaps from the dropping of fluid occasionally from the pulmonary orifice into the fluid collected at the bottom of the pleural cavity. Coughing will frequently elicit this sound. Treatment.—The relief of pneumothorax is easily accomplished by tapping or puncturing the chest so that the accumulated air shall escape from the pleura,—the operation of Paracentesis Thoracis. But the causes of which pneumothorax is itself only symptomatic must then be attended to, as in the treatment of a penetrating wound of the chest. Emphysema.—Disteusion of the cellular texture with air frequently accompanies pneumothorax; although either condition may occur in- dependently. Emphysema almost necessarily depends on a wound of the costal pleura, in conjunction with that of the pulmonary pleura; air escapes into the pleural cavity with each inspiration, and is expelled thence into the cellular texture. If the lung be bound down by adhesion at the seat of both apertures, the air passes directly into the cellular texture; emphysema arises without any previous pneumothorax. An external penetrating wound will also allow air to pass directly into the cellular texture, thus giving rise to emphysema. A rare mode of production, which Mr. Hilton has described, is by rupture of the pulmonary texture alone ; air passing into the posterior mediastinal cellular texture, along the course of the nerves and vessels, thence to the neck, and downwards along the sheaths of the arteries to the limbs. The signs of emphysema are distinctive ; a swelling, diffused, some- what elastic, but plainly crackling under pressure with the fingers, and without any discolouration of the integument. This swelling arising in the neighbourhood of a fractured rib, or around the margin of a pene- trating wound, gradually extends tln'ough the cellular texture over the thorax. I have seen it thus comparatively limited with fracture of several ribs. Sometimes it passes up into the neck and arms, and downwards to the lower limbs; such general emphysema presents the singular appearance of a stuffed figure scarcely human, and as the internal organs become involved, dangerous symptoms arise, particu- larly dyspnoea, threatening suffocation. Treaknent specially for this condition may not be requisite. The air infiltrated often becomes absorbed rapidly, and the swelling dis-