CATARRH OF THE MIDDLE EAR. 261 Fig. 655.* of this iustrument is by no means so difficult as is generally believed. The silver catheter, with an obtuse angle of from 110 to 120 degrees, is o-enerally most convenient in the hands of those ac- customed to its use. The caoutchouc ones are liable to break after having been used for some time, and, thouo-h they are not so likely to make false passages in the hands of an inexperienced operator as the silver ones, they do not convey such accurate knowledge of the position of the beak in relation to the structures over which it passes. The patient should be placed with the inferior meatus of the nares horizontal and their external openings opposite the right shoulder of the operator, who tilts the poiat of the nose upwards with the fingers of the left hand, and places the beak of the catheter on the floor of whichever side corresponds . to the ear into which it is to be introduced. Keeping t the beak close against the floor of the inferior meatus, the catheter is raised to the horizontal position, and then carried in until it reaches the posterior wall of the pharynx, where it gives the operator the same feeling of resistance which he would receive on press- ing it against the tense open palm of the hand. He next withdraws the catheter from one-third to three- fourths of an inch backwards towards himself, and slightly elevates its outer end, till he feels the con- : cavity of the angle catch on the floor of the nares. He then revolves it through an angle of a little more than 90 degrees, so that the ring on the catheter correspond- ing in direction to the beak of the instrument, which has till now been in a vertical direction, is turned upwards and outwards towards the external ear, when he feels the catheter make a slight dip into the pharyngeal opening of the Eustachian tube. This is the method usually adopted; but in another, which has been proposed by Bonnefont, the operator turns the beak of the catheter fi-om the posterior pharyngeal wall outwards towards Miiller's depression, and then he draws it back towards himself, till he feels that it has passed over a swelling and fallen into a depression. In Lowenburg's method, ; after reaching the posterior pharyngeal wall, he turns the beak of the : catheter inwards, drawing it towards him till the curve catches on the : posterior edge of the nasal septum, and then revolves it upwards or down- wards through a semicircle, when it will pass into the tube. If the beak of the catheter is well into the mouth of the tube, air can be passed through the catheter into the tympanum with an india-rubber bag or from the mouth; and the Surgeon will therefore be able to assure himself that the catheter is properly introduced, by listening with the otoscope for the sound caused by the inflation of the drum. The mistakes which are most commonly made by beginners in pass- ing the Eustachian catheter are—introducing it into the middle, instead of the inferior, meatus of the nares; and, after the catheter has touched the posterior pharyngeal wall, not bringing it sufficiently forward, in which case it falls into the depression behind the opening of the Eusta- * St. John Eoosa.