401 DISEASE OF THE SPINE. ■whicli is always greater in paraplegia, will also be prevented ; and the prone position readily allows of any local treatment. Rest of the brain is equally essential to recovery ; freedom from the excitement of busi- ness or pleasure, which, although apparently beneficial for a time, is permanently conducive to a fatal issue. Local treatment consists in derivation from the spinal cord, by means of dry-cupping along the spine on either side; followed by counter-irritation, by blisters, setons, issues, or even by the actual cantery, in the form of the moxa. Consti- tutional treatment comprises the continued administration of gentle mercurials, especially the bichloride, or iodide of potassium, with quinine, as a tonic. Sabaequently, when all inflammatory action has subsided, and paralysis of motion, sensation, or both, alone remains, with a cachectic state of the health, strychnine and iron will prove efficacious. A sixteenth or twelfth of a grain of strychnine, with thi^ee or four grains of the sulphate or phosphate of iron, in the form of a pill, three times a day, may be continued with advantage until slight tetanic twitchings are induced. In conjunction with strychnine, the galvanic current should be employed ; one pole of the battery being placed in the course of the spine, while the other is applied up and down the paralytic limbs, so as to excite the action of different sets of muscles. Salt-water douches, and frictions, may also have some bene- ficial influence. The general health and strength must be supported and renovated by a nourishing diet, and other hygienic measures. I have seen the best remedial results from this course of treatment, in many cases. Compression of the Spinal Cord.—This injury to the cord may depend on either of three causes, or perhaps their concurrent action : intra-vertebral hasmorrhage ; intra-vertebral suppuration or abscess; and fracture of the spine, with displacement. The two former causes of compression must severally be treated on general principles; the latter is noticed under fracture of the spine. Obviously, however, no source of compression affecting the spinal cord, can be readily amen- able to treatment. Disease of the Spine.—Structural Con- ditions.—The generic term, disease of the spine, as ordinarily understood, signifies caries of the vertebrae, apparently of a scrofu- lous character; which commences probably in the bodies of these bones, and involves the inter-vertebral fibro-cartilages. (Fig. 730.) This disease is situated, usually, in the bodies of the mid-dorsal vertebra; but extendins: upwards and downwards to several verte- bra, the upper or lower dorsal, or even the upper lumbar vertebrce and fibro-cartilages, may be diseased. The bodies of the af- fected vertebrje become disintegrated, and the cai'tilages destroyed; the spine yields under the superincumbent weight of the trunk, and * ^t- Thomas's Hosp. Mus., E. 7. Commencing caries in the bodies of dorsal vertebrfe, sixth and seventh, with destruction also of the inter-vertebral cartilage, ■ine anterior common ligament is separated to some extent above and below the seat of caries, by the formation of abscess VOf;. II. Fig. 730.* 2 D