SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 68 pathological collections in London, one specimen, in -wliicli a complete new articulation having formed after excision of the shoulder-joint, this result had stood the test of twenty Fig. 515.* years' service. (Fig. 515.) The following cases well illustrate the successful results of shoulder-joint excision, for disease. I have narrated the first case from careful clinical notes by Mr. T. C. Murphy. Case 1.—John C , set. 21; admitted into the Royal Free Hospital, July 30th, 1870. The patient, of naturally good con- stitution, had never suffered from rheuma- tism ; but for the last two years he had habitually drank hard. At about the com- mencement of that period he was struck with a stick on the right shoulder; three months afterwards, a small abscess formed at the anterior margin of the axilla. It ■was opened, and has continued to discharge ever since. The arm gradually became more fiixed and drawn to the side. In the course of six months, a large abscess, the size of a fist, formed under the spine of the scapula; this was opened at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Other abscesses have since formed; so that, on admission, the shoulder presented considerable enlargement, and seven sinus-openings—three posteriorly, two externally through the deltoid muscle, and two an- teriorly in the angle of the axilla. From the date of injury up to the present time, the joint has been painless, unless the arm was forcibly moved. The general health is much reduced by the profuse and long- continued discharge. I therefore endeavoured to restore the patient, as far as possible, constitutionally and locally, by a sustaining diet and rest of the joint; and, as he retrogressed occasionally, from attacks of diarrhoea, I postponed interference, watching the most favourable opportunity for operation. At length, after two months and a half_ of this manoeuvring, on October 15th, I excised the joint; performing the operation by the elKptical incision, so as to embrace and raise the deltoid muscle, thus to thoroughly expose the whole jomt. The rem- nant head of the humerus was sawn through below the great tubero- sity observing my usual precaution, in all joint-excisions, not to detach the vascular connection of the surrounding integument, and making the section just level with its attachment The glenoid cavity, denuded of cartilage, was slightly scraped and freshened with a Kouge. Torsion of one or two small vessels, and one hgature, sufficed to arrest the trifling hEemorrhage. The flap bemg laid down, and closed by a few points of suture, no retentive splint was apphed ; an axillary pad, and a bandage as for fractured clavicle kept the osseous surfaces in apposition, and the arm on the chest. The wound healed throughout by primary union, dischargmg only from its angles while the sinus-openings gradually dried up. The result, at the cud of about six weeks, was a freely movable joint m all directions—cir- cumduction and rotation; with power to perform these movemei^ts, but only to a limited extent that of raising the arm by abduction • * Roy. Ooll. Surg. Miis., 923d.