SPECIAL rATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 382 increase of tlie vitreotis and aqueous humours ; but it is generally- referred to some morbid condition of the structures in the orbit, behind the globe,—effusion of serum, increase of post-ocular fat and cellular tissue, congestion of the orbital veins, or other such cause. Combinations of these three conditions of bronchocele are not unfre- quently met with; cysts associated with hypertrophy, or vascular enlargement with cysts. Modifications also may be produced by morbid changes; extravasations of blood, and its alterations, result- ing in pigmentation; or fatty and calcareous degenerations taking place. Symptoms, and Diagnosis.—Certain appearances and phenomena are common to all three forms of the disease. A swelling, corresponding in situation and shape to the thyroid gland, is presented in front of the neck; and which has a soft elastic character. Usually, both lobes of the gland are affected, and the tumour is bilobular; rarely, however, equally so; the right lobe is commonly the larger; occasionally, the middle lobe or isthmus is principally affected. The tumour always follows the movements of the trachea, to which it is attached, and of the oesophagus as connected therewith; the swelling therefore rises upwards towards the chin when the patient is directed to swallow, and then lowers again to its original position as the act of swallowing ceases. This rising and falling of a tumour in the neck during deglutition is diagnostic of bronchocele from any other tumour, not implicating the thyroid gland, or directly attached to the trachea. When bronchocele has attained to a large size, this phenomenon is less observable, and therefore less characteristic. The skin over the tumour is not dis- coloured, or in an otherwise unhealthy state. The mechanical results of pressure on surrounding parts are propor- tionate to the size of the tumour. Difficulty of breathing, especially in a stooping posture, and of swallowing, or dyspnoea and dysphagia, with some congestion of the brain, arise from pressure on the trachea, oesophagus, and jugular veins; hacking cough also ensues from a diseased condition of the trachea itself. Spasm of the glottis, from irritation of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, may give rise to similar and more urgent symptoms. Gil Stic bronchocele is distinguished from simple hypertrophy of the thyroid, or ordinary bronchocele, by tension and fluctuation in the cystic portions of the enlarged gland, and by a somewhat specially lobulated character, where the cysts partially project. The most marked instance of this form of the disease I ever saw, was in the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital, when I happened to visit that institution in the autumn of 1868. The patient, a young woman, was the subject of an enormous cystic bronchocele, which occupied the whole front and depth of the neck; extending laterally upwards from near the angle of the jaw on either side, downwards towards the clavicle, and from almost the level of the chin to the sternum. The whole mass looked like a pillow m front of the neck, tucked up under the jaw. The cysts were large, plainly fluctuating, and prominent. Pulsating bronchocele is thus distinguished from ordinary goitre :— The size of the tumour varies considerably with the general condition of the patient as to rest or excitement, and their effect on the heart s action ; the tumour rarely becomes large enough to produce any great deformity; and the purring thrill and loud murmur in the tumour,