^^^^ SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. +n P^^<=.« °f tjie lieart are liable to be wounded, and, according to Ollmers inquiries m the following order of frequency :-right veiS tncle, left ventricle, the apex or base, right auricle, left auricle^ Kupture of the heart occurs also in different parts of the orean r.t. '° o'f r^l^tive order of frequencj-as shown by Gamgee's collefted cases. Of 27 instances, in at least one-half, the pericardium waa entire ; in 12 the rupture was on the right side, in 10 on the left The right ventricle was ruptured in 8, the left in only 3 cases; the left auricle was torn in 7, the right in only 4 cases. Prognosis.—Wounds of the Lung are always perilous, but less so than similar injury of most other viscera. The cause and depth of the wound will mainly determine the prognosis. Thus, a wound produced by a fractured rib is rarely fatal, either in itself or its consequences- whereas contusion, causing rupture of the lung, is frequently more serious ; and a penetrating wound is always dangerous, proportionately to its depth. Hence, a stab may soon prove fatal, although I have seen a case where the lung was penetrated by a fork, as shown by the bloody expectoration, and yet the patient soon recovered. A bullet- wound is most perilous, owing to its depth and the uncertain extent of the injury; perhaps implicating the root of the lung. The presence of a ball, as a foreign body, within the thorax is always a sure ground for very grave prognosis. Thus, Dr. McLeod states that, of thirty-three such cases, only two survived. Rare instances of recovery are not unknown; in one case, the ball became encysted in the lower lobe of the lung, life was prolonged for six months, and then death resulted from disease unconnected with the injury; in another case, Mr. Arnott found the fragment of an iron hoop in the lung, which had been lodged therein for a period of fourteen years; and Boyer discovered a ball, the patient having lived for no less than twenty years. But more than balf the cases of gunshot wounds of the chest die. After the battle of Toulouse, of 106 cases, it would appear that nearly half died; and of 40 cases at the Hotel Dieu, 20 died. Of penetrating chest wounds only, out of 164 such cases in the British Army during the Crimean War, 180 died,—a mortality of 79-2; while, in the French Army, the death- rate from these wounds rose to 91-6; and of 200 cases in the Russian Army at the siege of Sebastopol, only 3 recovered; whereas, in the Pranco-Prussian War, of 30 patients, Billroth lost only 9, or at the rate of 30 per cent.; but in about the same number of cases among the Trench at Sedan, and the Germans at Metz, the mortality rose to 54-8 and 55-8 respectively. On looking at the far larger returns of the American War (1861-65), we find that, in 8404 cases, the death- rate was 62-5,—when the chest had been penetrated, and probably the lung wounded. This may be taken as the average mortality. The usual cause of death is heemorrhage, primary or secondary. And, according to Hennen, death generally occurs before the third day; after which, if the patient survive, the prognosis will be favourable for recovery, subject to the contingencies of inflammation and its consequences as affecting the lung and pleura. Wound of both lungs is always more dangerous; and principally owing to double pneumothorax, with collapse of the lungs, inducing more complete asphyxia. Recovery is, however, an occasional termination, even in such cases. Wounds of the Heart are generally fatal, and almost immediately, from internal haemorrhage and collapse. Sometimes life continues for