SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUHGERY, 544 horizontal ramus of tlie pubes and femoral vessels. These parts, with the pectineus muscle, intervene between- these two forms of hernia ; in the one, they are behind the hernia and cannot be easily felt, not per- haps until it is reduced ; in the other, they are in front of the tumour, which is therefore deep-seated, while the ramus and the pulsation of the artery can be felt superficially. With symptoms of strangulation and no tumoui', there will still be the acute pain proceeding from the site of the obturator canal, and extending downwards along the inner side of the limb. But exploration of the obturator region, by means of an incision, will alone clear up the difSculty; and this procedure is justiSable with a view to relieving the symptoms of strangulation by operation. Complications may be occasioned by the coexistence of one or more hernise, especially in the inguino-femoral region. Thus, in one case, there was reducible crural hernia on either side ; in three cases, a crural hernia on the same side as the obturator; in one case, on the opposite side; and in another case, an inguinal hernia on the same side as the obdurator. Two obturator hernise, one on either side, have been known to coexist, in some cases. The treatment is necessarily tentative, owing to the obscurity of diagnosis. If a hernial tumour be detected, it may be reduced by pressure so directed as to free the protrusion from the ramus of the pubes, and pass it underneath it. Otherwise, in the event of symptoms of strangulation, with or without a hernial tumour, an exploratory operation must be resorted to. The incision should be either parallel with the trunk of the femoral artery, or with the border of the adductor longus muscle. Avoiding the femoral vein, the fascia covering the pectineus muscle and this muscle must be cautiously divided; some fat and the fascia of the obturator muscle are then reached. The tumour lies under this fascia, or possibly under the muscle, between it and the obturator membrane. The neck can be felt at the obturator canal, and the obturator nerve must be avoided. Perineal Hernia descends between the prostate gland and rectum ; or between the vagina and rectum in the female,—the sex perhaps most liable. The peritoneal sac escapes between the anterior fibres of the levator ani, and is covered by the pelvic fascia. It usually contains intestine, but omentum will scarcely descend so low down ; occasionally, a portion of the urinary bladder protrudes. A tumour of hernial character is presented in the perineum, at the side of the anus. (Fig- 82o.) By examination with the finger through the rectum, a hernial descent may be discovered before its appearance in the perineum. The protrusion having been replaced, the patient should wear a padded T- shaped bandage. Perhaps a rectal pessary will afford additional support. In the female, * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., E. 106. Perineal hernia, in the male. The sac, between the bladder and rectum, is laid open; its fundus lies before the anus, and behind the prostate and vesiculte seminales. The bladder covers part of the anterior portion of the hernia. The mouth of the sac is distant nearly three inches trom the anus. No protrusion, apparently, could be detected in the perineum, (feir a. Cooper.)