INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. '387 the columnar portion, the canal, and the processes, articulatory, and those for the attachment of muscles. The functions or uses of the Spine are threefold, and coi'respond to ■ its anatomical elements. It is a column or pillar for sustaining tlie ■weight of the head and trunk, at the same time being a girder to sup- port the ribs, and connect the bones of the extremities; an elastic- jointed mechanism for flexible motion; and an osseous canal for con- taining and protecting the delicate and vitally important structure of the spinal cord. But the integrity of tbe cord is also secured by three other special provisions. Firstly, by its central position in the verte- bral column, the cord occupies neutral ground in relation to the forces which might cause sprain or fracture; so that in compi-ession of the ■.column forwards, and laceration of the posterior segment, the cord remains centrally in a neutral state. Secondly, the elastic and gradu- ated flexibility of the column prevents the effects of shock, and abrupt amotion, being communicated to the cord. Thirdly, its loose suspen- sion in the canal, and enclosure in a layer of subarachnoid fluid, which acts as a water-cushion, will further resist concussion. The flexibility of the vertebral column varies in different regions, the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar; being least in the dorsal region, where, compared with the length of this portion of the spine, there is a smaller >: proportion of inter-vertebral substance than in the cervical and lumbar portions of the column. To compensate for these various degrees of flexibility, certain curves are introduced near the respective junctions, to equalize the movements. The weakest parts of the column, and consequently the parts most liable to injury, are at the junctions of ■flexible to comparatively inflexible portions of the column. Hence, rthese parts are, the dorso-lumbar; the cervico-dorsal; the atlo-axial, ^regions. The various kinds of injury and disease, including malformation, to which the spine is liable, may be conveniently arranged in order as follow:—(1) Wounds, involving the cord; (2) Sprain; (3) Frac- ture and Dislocation; (4) Concussion ; (5) Compression; (6) Caries; "(7) Lateral Curvature ; (8) Spina Bifida. Injubies.—Wounds, like other injuries of the spine, owe their im- fportance to the probalaility or certainty, as the case may be, of the cord being involved, primarily by the lesion itself, or secondarily by dts inflammatory consequences. The causes of any such wound are—stabs with pointed instruments, ■^-s by a sword thrust, or with a knife or fork; gun.shot injury; frac- ture of the spine, implicating the cord by pressure of a displaced fragment. This latter cause of wound is associated with compression :of the cord, and is the usual form of that injury. Certain symptoms—those of paralysis, motor, sensory, or both are common to a wound of the spinal cord, in any part of its extent; unless above the origin of the phrenic nerve, opposite to or above the third cervical vertebra, when death is instantaneous from paralysis of the diaphragm and other respiratory muscles, causing immediate asphyxia, liut the symptoms of paralysis vary according to the region in which tbe cord is wounded—as in the cervical region, below the origin of the Pbremc nerve, the dorsal, or the lumbar regions; and the corre- sponding symptoms, which indicate these injuries of the spinal cord, ire tully described m connection with Fracture of the Spine