492 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY, passing the forefinger of tlie left hand up to the neck of the sac, the body of the hernia, including both the sac and its visceral contents, should be gently steadied with the other hand, in order not to drive the neck before the finger. At the same time, the finger is passed u]) and its point slightly inserted, as a protector, between the protrusion and the stricture. Then, using the finger as a director, the blunt- pointed hernia-knife is slipped up along the curve of its palmar sur- face, and just sufficiently far to bring the cutting edge of the knife- under the stricture. When the stricture is very tight, I am in the habit of insinuating the nail of my finger—preferably to Stanley's curved stricture-director—and then slide the hernia-knife flatwise over the back of the nail. Or, it may be more convenient to pass the knife along the curve of the finger. On gently elevating the handle, the stricture yields with a creaking sound; but it should be divided to a very limited extent, from one-eighth to a quarter of an inch, or just sufficient to admit the point of the finger to pass on into the abdomen when the knife is withdrawn. The direction in which the stricture should be divided varies with the hernia, and will be particularly noticed in describing the operation as performed for inguinal and femoral hernia. Serous fluid may now escape from the abdomen, vary- ing in quantity from a few drachms to some ounces, and thus indicating the intensity of the abdominal peritonitis. Reductioyi of the visceral protrusion is determined by the state of the parts. They should be carefully examined to discover whether there are any adhesions either between the parts, or between them and the sac; and to ascertain also whether the protruded parts and the seat of consti'iction are in a sufficiently healthy state for reduction. If the hernia be, as usual, an entero-epiplocele, the intestine will probably be seen, or more entirely, on drawing aside the omentum. Provided both be healthy and without adhesions, the intestine should be gently drawn down, to see that the constricted part also is not gan- grenous, and to efface the indentation which otherwise might remain ; then, reduction is effected by a gentle kneading action with the fingers to empty the gut and replace it, followed by a similar manipulation to replace the omentum. Larger portions of either may be returned, bit by bit, from one end adjoining the hernial aperture and followed gradually to the other end. In concluding the operation, the point of the finger should be gently introduced into the abdomen, to feel that the mouth of the sac is free, excepting in those unusual cases where the bowel or omentum is allowed to remain unreduced. The hulh of intestine, owing to its quantity and distension with flatus, will some- times render the reduction of the whole mass impracticable. In one such case, Mr. Tatum punctured the bowel with a grooved needle, and allowed the flatus to escape. The result was completely successful, but the justifiability of this instance as a precedent may well be questioned. Adhesions must be dealt with according to their nature and con- nection with the bowel or omentum. As to the howel, recent adhesions may be gently separated with the finger, between a coil of bowel, or between it and the sac; old adhesions may be divided with the knife, when thread-like, but when close and extensive their division would run the risk of injuring the bowel. Scarpa aflirms that the adherent portion of intestine is gradually drawn up to, and even within, the