SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 764 Fig. 918.* and this single curve corresponds to the curve of the instrument as ft passes along the urethra from that point downwards and upward^ i„to the bladder The point of the instrument-held as directed-is now inserted into the urethral meatus and carried slowly onwards alonr; the floor of the canal, to avoid the lacun89 on its roof, until four or five inches have disappeared; the handle is brought, at the same time to the middle hne, but still parallel and near the patient's abdomen • then It should be gently raised, and, as the point of the instrument passes under the subpubic curve, the handle is carried forwards and lightly depressed until it sinks below the horizontal line, when the opposite end wilUurn upwards into the bladder. (Fig. 918.) After the point of the instrument has passed below the scrotum, its further pro- gress in the right direction may be facilitated or maintained by guiding it between the fore and middle fingers of the left hand, under the pubes; and sometimes the introduction of the forefinger into tbe rectum will aid in determining the middle line onwards to°the bladder. That the bladder is entered is announced by some escape of urine through the catheter,_ on withdrawing the stylet, and by freedom of the point on attempting to rotate the instrument from side to side. But no urine will escape when there is only a small quantity in the lower fundus of the bladder, and the patient recumbent; and I have noticed that, in the sitting or standing position, there may be a small or dribbling stream, even when the bladder is nearly full, owing apparently to temporary atony or paralysis of the organ. After a few minutes, the urine may be drawn off freely, or discharged in a full stream. In passing a catheter, any slight resist- ance may be obviated by manipulating the instrument, in respect to its direc- tion, or withdrawing it for an inch or so and then repassing it. But the presence of stricture is determined by an arrest of the instrument point blank, and at the same part of the ure- thra, on each re-introduction. If, how- ever, the point of the instrument is only stuck in a lacuna or some fold of the mucous membrane, the point will feel loose, and should be disengaged; whereas, when it has entered fairly into tbe stricture, the point is felt to be grasped tight, and then it should bo gently urged onwards. Remembering the situations of stricture, this obstruc- tion will be found usually behind the scrotum, in the subpubic curvature ; less frequently in the ante-scrotal por- tion of the urethra. No force should ever be used; nothing more than the pressure of a light hand, exercised slowly, continuously or inter- mittently, and with patience. Any departure from this injunction may lead to perforation of the urethra and the formation of a " false pas- sage ; " and this misadventure is the more likely to happen when the ♦ The instrumont hero represented is a sound, iustead of a catheter.