MALFORMATIONS. 727 lower margin, a stort imperfect penis depends, wHcli is flattened, as if cleft in the middle line into tlie urethra. At the root of the penis, a rudimentary prostate exists, the ducts opening into the angle between the bladder and pubes. A pouch of integument below represents the scrotum, and contains the testes, with usually some hernial protrusion of the bowels beneath the extroverted bladder. Both sexes are liable to this malformation, but it occurs more commonly in the male. In the female, the generative function is not necessarily wanting. But, in both sexes, the extroverted mucous membrane is very sensitive and readily bleeds ; while the continual distillation of urine, producing excoriation of the parts beneath, and pervading the patient with a con- stant odour of stale and decomposing urine, renders his life a misery to himself and intolerable to others about him. Treatment.—Mechanical contrivances have been made with the view of forming an artificial abdominal wall over the bladder to catch the urine as it flows ; thus preventing excoriation and the urinous odour. An india-rubber bag may be fastened over the bladder for this purpose; but great nicety of fit and capability of adjustment to the various positions of the body are requisite elements in any such contrivance. Plastic operations have also been devised with the view of restoring the deficient abdominal wall, and thus closing in, or as it were com- pleting, the bladder. An ingenious operation of this kind was origin- ally performed by M. Adolphe Richard, in October, 1853 ; it was founded upon one performed by M. Nelaton for a lesser degree of deformity—simple epispadias—in the early part of 1852. Subsequently, in 1859. Pancoast, of Philadelphia, introduced the use of two reversed flaps, taken from the sides of the bladder, and turned with the skin surface towards the bladder. In the same year. Dr. Daniel Ayres, of New York, operated in two cases on the same principle ; and the skin at the margin of the exposed bladder was dissected up and brought together by sutures over the raw surface of the re- flected flap. Into this country, Mr. Timothy Holmes was the first to introduce an important modification of the operation,—reversed and superimposed flaps taken from the groins, at the sides of the blad(^er ; whereby a better supply of nourishment is provided, from the recur- rent branches of the common femoral artery, for primary union to take place. Mr. John Wood has completed the operation, in all its details, and has been the most successful operator. The operation now consists of two stages: the first, to effect the closure of the upper part of the bladder; the second, after an interval of about a month, to close in the lower part, and to form a prepuce and complete the urethra. Closure of the bladder is accomplished by reflecting two triangular flaps of skin, one on each side of the exposed bladder, with their bases downwards, and attached to the skin of the groin at Poupart's ligament. The apex of each flap meets the other at the median line above the extroverted bladder, so that the raw surfaces exposed by lifting them are continuous at that point. The inner edges of the flaps are made close up to the bladder, and are brought together in the median line, and united by interrupted wire sutures. The penis may then be fastened down to the sci'otum by a silver wire suture passed through the frgenum, to allow a free escape of the urine. The angles of the groin and umbilical incisions are then to be united by