SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 706 the handle of the instrument about half an inch, thereby raising the open blades slightly from the floor of the pelvis to a horizontal plane, and turn them to the right and left. In completing each of these movements, the blades are closed to seize the stone. These five positions—vertical, right and left incline, right and left hori- zontal—will explore the bladder fully,—middle, right, and left, and will thus almost certainly find any stone of moderate size in a healthy bladder. If the prostate be enlarged, and the stone possibly lodged in a depression behind it, or if the stone be small or a frag- ment only, the blades may be reversed or turned downwards, and the handle raised, when it will often be found and secured with ease. To overcome the difiiculty of prostatic enlargement, a modified form of lithotrite should be used ; the curve of the instrument is made shorter and more abrupt, thus to mount over the upward projection of the pro- state, especially if the middle lobe be enlarged, and the shaft is longer by two or three inches, on account of the elongation of the urethra; this twofold construction of the instrument corresponding to that of the prostatic catheter. It will be desirable also to elevate the pelvis, so that the stone shall fall back towards the posterior wall of the bladder, and thus further aid the manipulation of seizure. The object of this method is strictly to avoid giving any jerk to the instrument or to the bladder; and by barely coming in contact with its interior, no pain or contraction of the bladder is provoked. The same object was sought to be attained by the other method, simply by not moving the instrument in the bladder for the purpose of exploring to ascertain the situation of the stone; the instrument being rested, and somewhat depressed, in the lower fundus of the bladder, to make the stone fall into its blades. Coulson seems to combine hoth these methods in using the litho- trite : a slow twirling revolution of the instrument on its own axis, between the thumb and finger, without changing its central direction ; and at the same time, a gently sliding motion of the male branch backwards and forwards to the extent of half or three-quarters of an inch thus gently raking or traversing the floor of the bladder on either side successively. Of these three methods of using the lithotrite, I prefer the latter. Crushing the Stone.—When once firmly fixed between the blades of the lithotrite, the stone is to be crushed into fragments. It is raised to the centre of the bladder, so that the mucous membrane shall not be injured by the splintering of the stone. Crushing may first be attempted by pressure with the hand alone—if the old instrument be used—without the action of the screw. The female branch is held firmly by the left hand, applied to the square portion; the circular projection immediately behind is embraced between the index and middle fingers of the right hand, hooked on to it and used as a pomt of resistance; the expanded extremity or wheel of the male branch rests in the palm of the same hand turned upwards and forwards, in this position, by strongly and repeatedly contracting the fingers towards the palm, the male branch is slowly and cautiously driven forwards on the stone, which is distinctly felt to break down. A small stone may thus be easily crushed. When this manipulation fails, the screw most be brought into action. Still holding the female branch firmly with the left hand, the handle of the screw is held between the thumb and