SUEGICAL ANATOMY OF THE BLADDER, PROSTATE GLAND, ETC. 601 sides and base of the bladder, and, terminating in the internal iliac veins ai"e accompanied in tbeir course by lymphatic vessels, which enter lymphatic glands around the internal iliac artery, and thence proceed upwards to the lumbar glands. Nerves are supplied in equal abun- dance. They proceed partly from the fourth nerve, or sometimes the third nerve of the sacral plexus,—itself dei-ived from the spinal cord, and these spinal nerves are distributed to the base and neck of the bladder; but the hypogastric plexus from the great sympathetic cords (Fig. 850)— a plexus situated between the common iliac arteries—supplies two large prolongations which descend into the pelvis, one on either side, to form two lateral pelvic plexuses, which communicate with a few offsets fi'om the first or two first ganglia in the sacral cord of the sympathetic; and these pelvic plexuses, expanding over the sides of the bladder and i-ectum, or vagina, are distributed to the upper portion and re- maining part, of the organ, not supplied from the sacral plexus. Both sets of nerves —spinal and sympathetic— communicate in the pelvic plexuses; and the sacral nerves, third and fourth, ou either side, contribute branches thereto, aided by a filament or two from the second sacral nerve. Many ganglia are interspersed in each plexus, thus consti- tuted, particularly at the junctions of the spinal and sympathetic nerves. The filaments from either plexus pass along and accompany the branches of the internal iliac artery, given off to the bladder, as already mentioned. The muscular bands, blood- vessels, lymphatics, nerves, and cellular texture, together form a second coat, overlying the "mucous coat;" while, externally, this "muscular coat" is partially invested with the peritoneum, forming the " peri- toneal or serous coat," which, however, extends over only the posterior half of the bladder, being reflected so as to leave the anterior half of the organ uncovered, or free of tbis investment. Ligamentous Connections.—The peritoneum covering the front of the rectum—or uterus, in the female—is reflected backwards over the * Side view of Pelvis, in Female; showing hypogastric plexus of nerves.— A, uterus enlarged by gestation; b, vagina; o, bladder; n, rectum; «, sacral plexus. 1. Nerve from renal plexus to ovary and uterus. 2. Splanchnic nerve- left. 3. Splanchnic nerve—right. 4. Plexus formed by these nerves. 5. Sacral ganglion. 6. Great sympathetic nerve. 7. Uterine nerves. 8. Vesico-uterine branch from sacral plexus. 9. Anastomosis of sacral plexus with hypogastric plexus. 10. Fourth sacral nerve, giving branches to hypogastric plexus and to pelvic viscera. (From A. Jamain.) Fig. 850.*