FEACTUKES OF THE VAULT OF THE SKULL. 151 mpnt is immovable, it being still connected at one side to the surround- iuff bone, tbe external table of which, at this part, is only partially fractured. The appearances may, in fact, be said to resemble the lid of a box partly open. In one instance, the injury was produced by a chisel falling from a great height on to the head; and m the other, the patient, in a fall from a great height, struck his head upon some iron railings, one of which penetrated his skull. Upraising of both tables is sometimes produced by fracture from withm the skull, as in suicide by firing a pistol into the mouth. (c.) Gortvpoimd Fracture.—A wound of the integument, leading down to the bone, may accompany every variety of fracture of the vault. But the injury of the bone is very much more frequently strictly limited to the seat of the blow than in simple fracture. Symftoms, and Diagimis—Simple fracture, in any form, is not accompanied by symptoms or signs invariably and exclusively indica- tive of this kind of injury. Fissn/re may exist, undiscovered during life; and a comminuted fracture, with great depression of the frag- ments, maybe concealed by the temporal muscle, or by a large extrava- sation of blood. On the other hand, either a circumscribed extravasation of blood, or an abnormal depression of the bone, is apt to resemble fracture with depression. Extravasation into the cellular texture beneath the scalp, raises it, excepting at the part compressed by the contusion. The surrounding swelling thus produced is very firm, and its central margin resembles that of fracture, with depression.. But this margin can be indented with the finger-nail, whereas the bone would not yield any impression. Yet fracture may have occurred beneath the annular swelling produced by extravasation ; this co-existing injury to the bone will, however, be declared by some symptoms of compression, owing to effusion of blood on the dura mater. Beneath the tendon of the occipito-frontalis muscle, extravasation spreads, and yields a crack- ling sensation on gentle pressure. An abnormal depression of the skull is congenital, or slowly produced by absorption of the diploe and attenuation of the tables, as sometimes occurs in advancing years. Simple fracture is generally attended with symptoms of Concussion of the brain, from the violence causing the injury; the cerebral functions of consciousness, sensation, and voluntary motion are suspended, more or less completely; this state being transient, or of some duration, or soon terminating in death. The patient is stunned; but reaction may ensue, and he recovers in a few minutes ; or he lies insensible, motion- less, pale, and cold, when vomiting, perhaps, occurs, and the symptoms pass off in a few hours or days; or, complete insensibility remaining, death may take place in a few minutes, or hours at the latest, after the injury to the head. But, with concussion, other symptoms are signifi- cant ; notably, the state of the pulse and of the breathing, less so that of the pupils of the eyes. Under slight cerebral concussion the pulse is feeble, although often rapid and regular; with complete insensibility, the beat will be scarcely perceptible, slow, and intermittent; or it may be quite imperceptible, in fatal cases. The breathing also is always feeble, but usually placid. On inspecting the pupils, they may be found contracted, sometimes dilated; or one in this state, the other in that. Depressed fracture is generally accompanied by the symptoms of Compression of the brain; namely, more or less complete suspension