817 HYDROCELE. these particulars, the fluid of encysted hydrocele differs from that of ordinary hydrocele. When this cyst projects into the tunica vaginalis, simulating common hydrocele, the only possible distinction may be the nature of the encysted fluid, as shown by puncturing with a trocar. A tumour of slightly solid consistence might yield the sen- sation of a cyst; e.g., a myxoma of the epididymis. A rare specimen of this kind will be found in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons (2392b), as presented by Mr. Gay. Treatment is precisely the same as that already described. The radical cure, by iodine injection, is not so uniformly successful as in ordinaiy hydrocele ; but, if it fail, incision of the cyst has been recom- mended, in order that it may granulate from the bottom and thus be- come obliterated. Encysted hydrocele may sometimes be left alone; tho cyst attaining to a certain size, and then remaining stationary for years. Encysted hydrocele may be conjoined with an ordinary hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, forming a bilobed tumour or swelling; but having an elastic, fluctuating character. (Kg. 948.) In the specimen I have figured, the tumour is associated with a large inguinal hernia ; Fig. 948.* Fig. 949.t the sac being above the compound hydrocele, and separate. The sper- matic vessels are spread out on the anterior aspect of the hernial sac. Hydrocele of the Spermatic Cord.—This form of hydrocele is cha- racterized by the presence of a cyst, containing serous fluid; and situated in some part of the spermatic cord. (Eig. 949.) It may be near the testicle, or within the inguinal canal and near the internal abdominal ring ; or at any intermediate point. But the cyst is always distinct from the testicle or the tunica vaginalis. The szg'jis are those of a round or oval tumour, rai'ely attainino- to a larger size than a hen's egg; elastic, and translucent when it can be ex- amined by transmitted light. It is movable, unaffected by compression and receives no impulse on coughing; nnless situated in the inguinal canal, when—owmg to its mobility up and down the canal, according * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 23.37. (Sir A. Cooper.) t Ibid 2458. ■ Hydrocele of the spermatic cord; the cyst having nearly a globular form, and being almost five inches in diameter. The vessels of the cord pass over its posterior aspect. The tunica vaginalis testis is seen below, (hir A. Cooper.) , VOL. II. ■•3a