BECURRENCE OF STONE. 697 cellular tissue around the neck of the bladder, would appear to be tLe inevitable consequence of a too free prostatic incision ; yet this condition must be very rare, neither Sir W. Fergusson nor Mr. Spence having met with it in any post-mortem examination of a lithotomy case. The symptoms supervene in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. (8.) Peritonitis, a consequence of cystitis or pelvic cellulitis, may thus cause death ; but peritonitis fer se is a rare event, especially in adults. (9.) Pycemia may be consequent on peritonitis; but it more fre- quently arises from inflammation of the prostatic plexus of veins, and generally in old persons, at the end of a week or fortnight. In one case, however, pyeemic infection supervened as late as the fourth week, when the wound had nearly healed (Spence). As a cause of mortality after lithotomy, pysemia would seem to be not uncommon ; ten deaths having thus occurred in the ninety cases referred to. In considering the results of lithotomy, no Surgeon should judge from his own experience of a limited number of successful cases, in succession. I, for instance, have not yet lost a case; and Surgeons of very extensive experience are well aware of the fallacy of these serial cases. Ifc has been truly said that " ten, twenty, thirty cases may succeed without interruption, and the operator flatters himself he is never to lose a patient; when two or three deaths follow in quick suc- cession, and reduce him to a level with his neighbours, or at least within the limits of variation which the analysis of a large number of cases indicates." Recurrence of Stone.—After the lateral operation of lithotomy, and after the median operation also, a second stone sometimes forms. The liability to this recurrence of calculus, and its relation to vai'ious circumstances, has been statistically investigated by Mr. C. Williams, of the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital. From the opening of the Hospital in 1772, to November, 1863, or during a period of ninety- one years, 923 cases of stone in the bladder underwent some form of lithotomy, excluding two cases of lithotrity; of these, twenty-four suffered a relapse, and underwent a second operation. The proportion of such cases to the whole number of stone patients is 1 in 38'45. Of the twenty-four cases of recurrence, and a second operation of litho- tomy, nineteen were cured, and five died; three had stone a third time, two of which were cut and recovered, the third was deemed unfit for operation. All the patients were males, no instance having shown itself of recurrence in the female. In respect to age;—six of the cases were under ten years of age; two between ten and twenty; one between twenty and thii-ty; four between thirty and forty ; two between forty and fifty; two between fifty and sixty; and seven between sixty and seventy. One death occurred below forty years of age; and four above that period of life. The period of return varied from one year to twelve years; the average period was thirty-three months. Lateral lithotomy was performed in all the cases, excepting eight; two of which were cut on both occasions by the median operation, and in four this operation was resorted to on the second occasion. In fourteen the calculi were removed in a perfect and entire condition at the'first operation; while in eight, the calculi were broken in the extraction ; in one, the stones were very small and numerous; and in the remaining