SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 328 It may not, for other reasons, be worth while to make any attempt to preserve the tooth, but it must not be forgotten that it is never necessary, merely for the cure of pain, to remove a tooth the nerve of which is alive. It may be that careful examination has not revealed the existence of periosteal mischief, nor of an unhealthy tooth-pulp, and yet that the pam is really due to a tooth. Its roots may be exostosed, or they may be roughened and rendered irregular and pointed by absorption, and yet little tpnderness be elicited on manipulating it. Or the pulp may be the seat of calcifications, or it may be in a state of irritation from the exposure of sensitive dentiue at the neck of the tooth, the gum having receded from it. And in making your examination do not forget that you may have chanced upon the moment of death of the pulp, when the eif ects due to its decomposition are not yet set up, but all symptoms have for the moment disappeared, so that in a doubtful and difficult case the examination must be repeated twice or three, times at in- tervals of a day or two. The difficulty of diagnosing the cause of pain, sometimes not slight, even when it is distinctly referred to the teeth, is tenfold more difficult when it takes the form of neuralgia elsewhere in the face or head. Notwithstanding the opinion of the late Dr. Anstie and others that facial neuralgia is rarely due to the teeth, I am convinced that it is very often so caused, and that much needless suffering is allowed to continue owing to misapprehension on this subject. Because a neuralgia comes on after fatigue, is relieved or driven away by a meal, is benefited by a course of quinine or other tonics, and there is no local pain in any tooth, it is often at once concluded that its cause is elsewhere. But, as a matter of fact, there is absolutely nothing in the way of symptoms which will serve to establish this conclusion; a neuralgia set up by teeth differs oftentimes in no respect from one set up by an undiscoverable cause, save only that, on adequate examination, dental mischief may be found. Every case of facial neuralgia for which no other cause can be found should be submitted to an experienced eye for examination, because many of the conditions which commonly set it up are very liable to be overlooked. Neuralgia is caused—(1.) By affections of the tooth-pulp. Most commonly by a localized patch of inflammation upon the pulp (see page 317) ; less often by general inflammation; by partial death and inflam- mation of the remainder; by irregular calcification of the tooth-pulp, a condition very difficult to diagnose ; by irritation of the pulp through exposure of sensitive dentine, or approximation to it of large metallic fillings. (2.) By affections of the surrounding parts. Periostitis of the alveole-den tar periosteum, of a chronic form; exostosis of the root, and coincident periostitis, or consequent interference with the nerve fibrils entering the tooth, or even with the main nerve-trunk of the jaw; roughening of the roots by absorption; difficult eruption of teeth (almost always wisdom teeth). Neuralgic pain due to teeth may affect any of the branches of the fifth nerve, and may extend to other nerves with which the fifth is connected. The following sites, or foci, of pain are given as far as may be in