99 MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE STUMP. undisturbed for some days — two, three, or even four days, ac- cording to the degree of tension, the appearance of discharge, and atmospheric conditions as to temperature or otherwise. Meanwhile, any liability to disturbance by spasmodic jerking of the limb may be controlled by a roller turned once round the stump and fastened to either side of the bed. Opiates may also be administered, if neces- sary, for this purpose, and to pro- cure sleep. To more effectually support the flaps of the stump, and to counteract any tendency to spasm, a short back-splint is often used with great advantage (Fig. 535) ; and, indeed, I seldom dispense with it, particularly after amputation below the knee-joint, where the stump is subject to the action of \/he quadriceps extensor muscle inserted into the tubercle of the tibia. In the case here figured I had performed a supra-condyloid amputation. . Be-dressmg the stump must be done gently. By sliding the hand beneath the stump, it is lifted up, and the draw-sheet and pillow removed for the nurse to clean; then, a flat pan being placed to receive any discharge, the roller is slit up with scissors, and the strips of plaster are to be removed and replaced one by one, leaving those that still retain a good hold, and probably all the sutures. In removing each strip, it should first be moistened with a piece of wet lint—preferable to sponge, which is apt to be re-used in another dressing, or perhaps from another patient—and both ends of the strip should be withdrawn together towards the lips of the wound, so as not to disturb the as yet recent union. Care must be taken not to disturb the ligatures. The discha-rge should be gently syringed out with weak carbolic a;cid solution. A fresh strip of lint dipped in water water-dressing—is reapplied, or a solution of carbolic acid, as an anti- septic, and over all, the support of a roller, lightly and evenly applied, will still be requisite. Subsequent dressings may be reduced and made yet lighter, their reapplication having regard especially to the counter- action of any tendency to lagging by the collection of matter. Ligatures 'should be removed as they loosen from time to time; or acupressure- needles may be withdrawn in three or four days after amputation. Any modifications of these proceedings, or further details, will be suggested by a general knowledge of the management of Wounds. Morhid Conditions of, or affecting, the Stttmp.—{1.) Secondary -tfiBmorr/ici^e.—Haemorrhage is named secondary when it occurs after an mterval of a few hours, more or less, subsequent to an injury. It may arise from local or constitutional causes. Local causes comprise the misapphcation of a ligature, as when, not having been applied transversely, or when, having included some surrounding texture it sliitts its position or loosens; a collateral branch just above the ligature may be the source of haemorrhage, if wounded, or lead to nsemorrhage from the ligatured vessel by disturbing the formation of a Clot. In the one case, htemorrhage occurs soon after ligature; i n the otner, when it separates. A diseased state of the coats of the artery