DISEASES OP THE SKIN. 131 hypersemia, by its crimson and purple hue, and by its permanence—in other words, by the rapid flow of arterial blood through the dilated vessels, in the one case; or by the slower current, which gives time, through its sluggishness, for the venous change of its colour—in the other. Hyperjemia is the essence of that congested state of the blood- vessels of the skin, which is termed erythema; and erythema presents a similar series of forms: it may be acute and evanescent, or it may be more or less enduring. Erythema is a hypergemia of the skin, but the term is rather subjective than objective, and relates to the appearance of the skin more than to its pathological condition. Erythema, how- ever, advances a step beyond simple hyperaemia, and is capable of assuming certain consecutive changes which give it the character of an inflammation. One of the commonest forms of erythema is urticaria, or nettle-rash; there is redness, betokening congestion of the blood- vessels, and the redness rapidly subsides and in a few hours vanishes completely, leaving no trace of its existence behind, and reminding ug of the operation of a blush, which may be intense for a brief period, but which disappears completely in a short space of time. There is a form of erythema which is identical in character with a blush, but the cause is di^fferent; it is pathological instead of being physiological, and, although sHght in its nature, betokens an operation which is not simply emotional, like a blush, but obeys some deeper cause, implying disturbance of function. The simplest idea which can be given of erythema is that of redness of the skin consequent upon a pathological cause, and in proportion to the power of that cause the redness will be transient or permanent, cir- cumscribed or diffused, or even migratory. The redness may be ac- companied with heat in a greater or less degree, with itching, and with swelling. As an illustration of an erythema of a transient nature, dependent on a trivial and temporary cause, let us take the so-called flushing after naeals, excited by undae stimulation of the nerves of the stomach, operating by reflex action on the vaso-motor nerves of the face and head. The erythema being extra-physiological, must necessarily be pathological, and, when repeated day after day, will lay the foundation of a fixed and permanent erythema. In its evanescent form, this cuta- neous hyperaemia has been termed erythema fug ax; while its permanent character would constitute chronic erythema. In the above instance, the cause is simple and evident; but it is clear that a similar effect would be produced by a hidden cause ; and then, for want of a better expression, we should call the affection idiopathic erythema. A still more obvious illustration of erythema may be observed in the effects of a local cause—for example, undue friction and pressure, a form which has received the name of intertrigo; the action of heat, as in burn, and especially sunburn; and cold, as in the instance of cliil- blam; and of external irritants in general, such as mustard and cantha- ' rides, strong acids and alkalies, bites and stings of insects; together with cuts, scratches, punctures, and bruises. This group differs from the former only m the ratio of the directness or indirectness of the injury. It is impossible to advance a step in the study of pathology without recognizing the mutual dependency and reaction of the three principal factors of disease, the nerves, the vessels, and the tissues; and although