45 ANALYSIS OF CASES OP HIP-JOINT EXCISION. disease, of acetabulum ; advanced liectic ; immediate cause, cold; dura- tion of disease, five years. Excision of two inches of femur. Recovery, with a movable joint and useful limb, in two months. QiSE 5. Jane L , set. 6 ; admitted into the Hospital March 4th 1867. Garies of right femur, its head and neck destroyed; similar disease of acetabulum ; health good; disease of traumatic origin; three years' duration, two and a half years' treatment. Excision he\ow great trochanter. Eecovenj, with a movable joint and useful limb, in four months. BesuU known to he permanent after three years. Case 6.—Catherine R , eet. 5 ; admitted into the Hospital October 31st, 1866. Scrofulous caries of left femur, its head and neck destroyed; similar disease of acetabulum; dislocation and abscess on dorsum ilii; advanced hectic ; disease apparently of trauma,tic origin ; one year and eight months' duration, and treatment. Excision^ below great trochanter. Eecovenj, with a movable joint and useful limb, in three months. For the particulars of this case I am indebted to my late colleague, Mr. John D. Hill, then senior house surgeon in the Hospital. In two other cases, the essential particulars were similar to one or other of the above series. Analysis of the Cases.—The following facts respecting the foregoing cases of hip-joint disease and excision seem specially worthy of notice. (1.) Conditions of Disease.—Caries in all cases, with destruction of the femoral articular cartilage, entirely in 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, or in five cases; circumferentially only in Case 2. Extent of bone diseased was the head and neck in each case ; with the great trochanter and portion of the shaft in Cases 1, 2, 3; and an extra portion of cancellated structure of the shaft in Oases 1 and 2 ; caries of the acetabulum to some extent in all cases, and of ramus of pubes in Case 1; dislocation on dorsum ilii in Cases 1, 2, 3, 6, or in four out of the six cases. (2.) Immediate Cause.—Injury in Cases 1, 3, 5, 6; cold in 2, 4. (3.) Constitutional Condition.—Advanced hectic in Cases 1, 2, 4, 6, or in four of the six cases; health good in Cases 3 and 5. (4.) Previous Duration of Disease.—Four years, one year, two years, five years, three years, one year and eight months. Previous Duration of Treatment.—Case 1, three years ; Case 5, two and a half years ; Case 6, one year and eight months. (5.) Age and Sex.—KgQ: 26, 16, 5, 8, 5, 5 years. Sex: four males and two females. (6.) Operation.—Incision T-shaped in all cases. Portions of lone excised: (1) Four inches of femur, and one inch of cancellated structure scooped out; (2) Four inches and a half of femur, and one inch of cancellated structure scooped out. In both these cases the medullary canal was entered. (3) One inch and three-quarters of femur; (4) Two inches of femur; (5) Section just below great trochanter; (6) Section just below great trochanter. Small portions of the acetabulum were scooped out in each case. Exmorrhage inconsiderable in all the cases. No ligatures required. Silk sutures and water-dressing applied in all the cases. No splint was used in any of the cases, the section of the femur being left free to form a fibrous anchylosis. (7.) Primary union ensued in all the oases, except the first, wherein the wound healed by granulation. (8.) Results.—Firm fibrous anchylosis, with a movable joint and useful limb in all the cases. Period of union, average three months. (9.) Eesult known to be 'permanent; in Case 1, after two and a half years; in Case 2, after five years ; in Case 5, after three years. Section, instead of Excision, of the upper end of the femur, is a procedure which has been devised and practised for failure of tho natural cure,—osseous, instead of ligamentous anchylosis of the joint, with useless malposition of the limb, as by flexure on the thigh and adduction.