SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 784 indurated stricture, as by Holt's operation, olfers an occasional resource for the relief of retention. External Urethrotomy.—Incision of the Urethra through, or behind, th; Stricture.—The first-named point of incision—through the stricture— is, in fact, perineal section; and the second—behind—may be performed in a precisely similar manner. The one has the advantage of relieving the stricture as well as the retention; the other leaves the stricture un- touched, and it is performed without a guide in the urethra, by carefully deepened incisions so as to hit the passage; the finger having beeii introduced into the rectum to indicate the point in front of the prostate; —the membranous urethra. This procedure was recommended by Guthrie and Listen, and is preferred by Mr. Spence, though it has now generally given place to puncture of the bladder per rectum. Both these urethral modes of entering the bladder have the advantage of not directly opening the bladder; and, in relieving retention, they also release any extravasated urine or matter which may have formed in the perineum. Puncture of the Bladder through the tectum.—Having emptied the bowel by an enema, the patient is brought to the edge of the bed, and his legs held apart as for lithotomy. The Surgeon then introduces the left forefinger, oiled, into the rfectum, and feels for the posterior Fig. 926, margin of the prostate; just beyond which point, bulging fluctuation should be perceptible, especially on tapping the hypogastric region with the other hand. The long curved trocar and cannula is then passed along the concavity of the finger, as a guide, to the same point in the middle line, and pushed upwards into the bladder, transfixing the rectum and base of the bladder in the trigone of the latter organ, whei-e it is uncovered by peritoneum. (Fig. 926.) This space is free from adjoining parts; the prostate in front, the reflection of the peri- toneum behind, and the vesiculas seminales are on either side. The trocar is now withdrawn, the bladder emptied, and the cannula retained by means of a waist-bandage and tapes. In performing this simple operation, two additional practical points are worthy of notice : in passing the instrument along the finger, let the point of the trocar bo withdrawn into the cannula, to avoid womiding the bowel; and leave the cannula in, but only just within the bladder, to prevent any irritn- tion of the mucous membrane by the edged end of this tube. It is