SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 730 in perchance some distant and previously unsuspected organ or part of the body; while the continued influence of any such disease, and thence its prognosis, may perhaps be determined by the persistence of the vesical irritability. Consequently, rational curative treatment can be brought to bear upon the disease, which has been thus indicated and estimated. Causes.—The bladder has its nervous and vascular relations to sur- rounding organs, and to organs distant in the body—both in health and disease. This twofold relation to other organs, through the medium tlie nervous and vascular systems, is the key to the etiology of irritability of the bladder. But the organ itself may be the seat of irritation, in disease of the bladder; or its contents may be the source of direct irritation, as by the presence of stone, blood, or morbid con- ditions of urine. All the causative conditions of vesical irritability are conveniently arranged under two general heads :— Local causes.—Diseases of surrounding organs which cluster around the bladder, may severally operate as causes of its irritability. The majority of these diseases aifect the bladder through either its nervous or vascular relations with the organ diseased. But some apparently act mechanically, in reducing the capaoiti/ of the bladder as a receptacle for urine; by pressure from a tumour of the rectum or uterus, or by displacement of the latter organ. Diseases of the bladder itself may sometimes act mechanically in like manner ; by hypertrophy or thick- ening of the wall of this organ, or by chronic enlargement of the prostate. In either way, the capacity of the bladder being diminished, while the quantity of urine secreted and conveyed into it continues undiminished, or is perchance increased, a more frequent discharge of urine is necessitated—a more frequent micturition, and thus the phenomenon of vesical irritability will be established. Other organic diseases of the bladder, as cancer, may operate in part mechanically; but more especially, by inducing an exalted state of the vital property of irritability or contractility in the muscular coat of the bladder. Cystitis, in the acute stage of inflammation, being unattended by any notable thickening of the bladder, would seem to have a similar influence. So also morbid contents of the bladder; as various con- ditions of the urine, the presence of blood or of a stone. The various local diseases which operate as causes of vesical irrita- bility may be enumerated in connection with the organs themselves, as follow :—(1.) Habitual constipation and Diseases of the Rectum; principally—haemorrhoids, fissured anus, inflammation of the rectum, stricture, cancer, abscess about the rectum, and fistula in ano. (2.) Displacements and Diseases of the Uterus and Vagina; chiefly—pro- lapsus uteri or vaginse, acute inflammation of the uterus, cancer, fibrous tumour. (3.) Stricture of the Urethra, organic, spasmodic, inflammatory, also phimosis. (4.) Diseases of the Prostate gland; chiefly—chronic enlargement, inflammation, cancer, and other tu- mours. (5.) Diseases of the Bladder; chiefly—hypertrophy, cystitis (acute and chronic), cancer, stone, hgemorrhage, hernia. Morbid con- ditions of the Urine, with Urinary Deposits, rank as local causes of irritability by their direct operation on the interior of the bladder ; but, as pertaining to Urinary Pathology, they are included under the second general heading.