HEMATOCELE—VABICOCELE. 821 Fig. 954.* Fig. MS.t vaginalis has become mncli thickened, castration, in order to remove the entire mass witti the testicle, may be the safest procedure. This will be especially advisable in elderly persons. Encysted Haematocele of the Testis, or of the Cord.—Cysts, con- taining blood, are occasionally met with; both in connection with the testis and the spermatic cord. In connection with the Testis (Fig. 954), it may be difficult or im- possible to distinguish encysted heematocele from ordinary hasmatocele of the tunica vaginalis. Hasmatocele of the Cord, arising from a strain or other violent exertion, presents a cystic swelling in some portion of the spermatic cord; but it is always distinct from the testicle or the tunica vaginalis. (Fig. 955.) Commencing usually within the inguinal canal, the tumour has a round or oblong shape; and, increasing in size, it extends downwai'ds through the external ring into the scrotum, where it may attain an enormous size. In one remarkable case related by Bowman, the tumour, after existing for ten years, had reached down to the patella, and was so heavy as to require both hands and a considerable elfort to raise it from its bed. The swelling is semi-elastic, but opaque, when of sufficient size to be examined by transmitted light. As in hydrocele of the cord, hEematocele of the cord is movable, unaffected by compression, and receives no impulse on coughing. These characters distinguish it from hernia, unless when situated within the inguinal canal, where the diagnosis is often most difficult. Treatment.—In the recent condition of Encysted HfEmatocele,—the blood remaining as yet fluid,— remedial measures may be directed to promote absorption, by rest and evaporating lotions. An incision, in this state of the hematocele, might lead to fearful hasmorrhage from the ruptured vein. In an advanced condition, the mode of treatment must vary accord- ing to the fluid or solidified state of the blood. Tapping, or coupled with iodine injection, will now become appropriate ; or an incision, to turn out the coagula, in order that the cyst may granulate and heal from the bottom. Varicocele.—^An enlarged and varicose condition of the spermatic veins, known as Varicocele or Cirsocele, is attended with certain marked characters. Signs.—A swelling, of an ovoid or pyramidal shape, with its base downwards, forms between the testicle and external abdominal ring; * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2460a, Encysted hfematooelo; showing the interior of a cyst, filled with fibrinous coagulum, and the adjoining tunica vaginalis, open. (R. Qnain.) t Ibid., 24G0. vaginalis, below (llunterian.) Hematocele of the spermatic cord; with hydrocele of the tunica and the sac of an inguinal hernia above the hematocele.