■^^^ SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tine jejunnm having been wounded inst below the stomach bv «n ncision half an mch in length, across the gut, this portion ofTntestine but remamed m close contact with an adjoining turn of the ieiunum- the two turns of intestine had adhered togethe°r, one showing\heTc^ of tbe wound, the other b6ing untouched T the right side of ^the co o„ wounded bj an incision an inch long, had united and adhered to thi nner surface of the peritoneum by'about a score of long thread-I ke tags of false membrane, issuing from the inner surface of one of the Jargest scars m the abdomen. But these favourable results however encouraging m apparently desperate cases of penetrating abdominal wounds are yet exceptional. In by far the greater maiority of such cases, the patients die, and especially when the small intestine is wounded; owing to the more frequent extravasation of feculent matter into the peritoneal cavity. Thus, during the American War of the Itebellion, out of about 650 cases wherein the abdomen was the seat of penetrating wounds implicating the intestinal canal, fifty were recoff- nized lesions of the small intestine, principally from gunshot iniurv • and ot the latter, there were only five cases of recovery. But out of eighty-nine cases as clearly wounds of the large intestine, in a con- siderable proportion relating to the caecum and ascending colon or to the descending colon and sigmoid flexure, in particular, the patients survived; with regard to the transverse colon, the recoveries were few Wounds of the jejunum and the ileum are more often multiple, passing through the folds of these intestines, and consequently are most dan- gerous. Treatment.—Eifpfwe of any abdominal viscus—without wound of the abdominal wall—suggests only two indications of treatment • the restoration from collapse; and the restriction of extravasation, whether of blood or feculent matter, in order to prevent the supervention of Peritonitis. The one indication may be fulfilled by a judicious ad- ministration of stimulants, with other measures to induce reaction; the other may perhaps be accomplished by rest and sedatives. Opium in gram doses, or the liquor opii sedativus, should be given every four hours, so as to keep the patient under its influence; hydrocyanic acid and potash, to allay sickness; while the diet must be restricted to spoonfuls of cold beef-tea, with barley-water and ice, and no aperient medicine given for some days. A mild enema of gruel and castor oil will then be advisable. Penetrating woimd of the Abdomen, not involving any viscus, should be closed in the ordinary manner of a wound in a loose and movable part. A few points of suture must be introduced to steady the edges of the integument in apposition, aided by a suitable position to relax the abdominal muscles ; but the precaution of a compress and bandage will be requisite as a support, to prevent the risk of visceral protrusion. It is this liability which has led to the more recent use of quilled sutures, or of twisted sutures, for the deeper coaptation of the divided muscles. In gunshot wound, the presence of a foreign body, as a ball, portion of clothing, or piece of bone, may allow of a superficial examination with the finger or probe, in order to remove it from the wound; but no deep exploration should ever be made, with the view of extracting any foreign body from the cavity of the abdomen or pelvis. I?iira-abdominal hcemorrhage is another