132 I SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. appearances have given the blood-vessels a prominent place in patho- logical operations, the vessels are but passive agents nnder the control of the nerves, and the tissues are subservient to both. Already we have seen that an irritated pneumogastric nerve stimulates morbidly the trifacial nerve; and, in the local examples already cited, the incident nerve equally transfers its irritation to a reflex nerve, although by a shorter curve. "We shall, at a later period, have to consider that dependent independent life which belongs to the cell-elements of the tissues, and which, under the influence of hyperaemia, plays a not inconspicuous part. But we have said enough to demonstrate that erythema may be constitutional or it may be local; it may be transient or permanent ; it may be fixed ov. it may be diffused, and it may also be migrator^/. One of the most obvious of the phenomena of pathology is that of degree, and this is well illustrated by erythema. Erythema in its normal form presents redness, heat or itching, and slight swelling from simple turgescence of blood-vessels. But each of these symptoms is liable to modification. The redness may be bright, or dull, or purple, or almost black, according to the speed of circulation through the blood-vessels. For example, note the vividness of hue of scarla- tina, which, so far as the skin is concerned, is an erythema; the deep crimson of roseola and rubeola, from which they derive their names; the lividity of a chilblain, the blueness of morbus caeruleus, and the deep tones of purple of congestion resulting from obstruction of the venous circulation. The heat may convey the sensation of a pleasant glow, or be an insuiferable burning; the itching may be triflmg or intense, as we see exemplified in urticaria; and the swelling may be scarcely perceptible, or it may give rise to prominences which one while resemble pimples, another while tubercles and even tumours or tumefactions of considerable size and extent. These differences of character of erythema have suggested the terms jE7. papulosum, B. tuberosum, E. nodosum, and E. tumescens. Erythema papulosum and tuberosum are commonly met with around the joints, as a consequence of gastric irritation and rheumatism; eiythema nodosum is usually seen on the lower extremities, and has gained its name from a resemblance in figure to a node of the shm; while ery- thema tumescens is generally single, and forms a massive swelliug as large as the hemisphere of an orange or melon. It not untre- quently attacks the eyelids and face, and sometimes the interior ot the mouth or the tongue. The tumescent form somewhat resembles urticaria in the suddenness of disappearance of the swelling; and tlie latter symptom, which is due to a temporary infiltration or exudation, reminds us of the widespread intumescence and infiltration ot ery- ^'^^E?vthema is generally diffusive in a greater or less degree ; some- times it simply spreads in breadth, but more frequently it subsides m the centre whilst it spreads by the circumference, m this manner eivinff rise to circles or rings (E. circinaium) of various extent; the rines may be small, and confined to a limited region, or they may snread over the whole of the trunk of the body, intersectmg each other in their course, and producing a confusion of curved figures, which have been called E. gyratum. One very interesting form of centn- fugal erythema has received the name of E. ins, m conseqnence of it^