SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 726 Fig. 898. recommended that the coagalum should be broken up and withdrawn, by the introduction of a full-sized catheter to which a syringe is then applied, the blood being thus gradually extracted by suction ; or the bladder can be washed out by means of a large-eyed double-current catheter (Fig. 898), as in a case which I attended with Dr. Crisp, where I thus removed broken-down clot, with some ammoniacal urine, to the amount of a quart. Generally, this disturbance of the clot would seem to be unnecessary and preju- dicial. Its removal is apt to reopen the vessels and renew the hsemov- rhage, while the solvent action of the urine will most safely and eifectually bring away the blood. Opium may succeed in controlling the urgent de- sire to micturate ; and when abso- lutely necessary to relieve retention of urine, surgical interference can be resorted to. M ALFO RM ATIONS.—Congen ital aber- rations of development in regard to the Bladder are not commonly met' with; the misery any such condition entails necessarily precluding the un- happy individual from society. Pro- bably, however, such cases are more numerous than was formerly sup- posed ; as, since surgical attention has been directed to their relief, per- sons thus afflicted present themselves more frequently at Hospitals and in private practice. Malformations of the bladder are of three kinds:—(1) absence of the organ, with certain abnormal devia- tions of the ureters ; (a) their dii-ect communication with the urethra, (b) with the rectum, (c) with the vagina; (2) coexistence of two or more blad- ders ; (3) extroversion of the bladder, with corresponding deficiency of the anterior wall of the abdomen, ex- posing the posterior wall of the organ as a prominent projection. Extroversion of the bladder de- mands more particular notice, this malformation being susceptible of relief. With absence of the abdominal wall over the bladder, the pubio symphysis is sometimes absent also. The posterior wall and base of the organ are then pushed forward by the abdominal viscera, and form a prominence; the mucous membrane having a red, vascular appear- ance, and showing the orifices of the two ureters, whence the urme trickling down, perpetually moistens the surface. From beneath the