SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 100 orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, in the irritable ophthalmia of children, is the simplest form of entropion, and as affecting the lower lid; a similar spasmodic inversion happens in the relaxed lower lid of old persons. Chronic inflammation of the palpebral conjunctiva occasions a far more severe and obstinate entropion, the upper tarsal cartilage curving upon itself, until the whole range of eyelashes turns back- wards against the globe. Contraction of the conjunctiva, consequent on prolonged stimulation by nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper, or cicatrization following injury from acids, caustic alkalies, or bums, are occasional causes. Treatment must of course have reference to any cause in operation. Various procedures have been devised to counteract the resulting inver- sion. Excision of an elliptical portion of the skin of the lid, together with the subjacent fasciculus of muscle, and then uniting the edges of the wound with fine sutures, may effect a cure in a flaccid lid, subject to spasmodic inversion. Care should be taken lest, by removing too large a portion of skin, an opposite state, eversion of the lid, be pro- duced. M. Arlt has suggested a plan which gives in some instances excellent results. The eyelid is firmly fixed by a blepharospath, which prevents bleeding. A very sharp Grafe's linear cataract-knife is then made to penetrate the margin of the lid, between the point of emergence of the cilia and the orifices of the Meibomian glands, to the depth of about one-sixth of an inch; the point of the knife is then thrust through the skin, and is carefully conducted from one end of the lid to the other. (Fig. 609.) By this means the roots of the ciUa, with a portion of the free border of the lid, are completely detached, except at the two extremities of the cut. A crescentic portion of the skin of the lid above the upper incision is now removed, and, as is shown in Fig. 609.* Fig. eiO.f Fig. 610, the npper border of the piece containing the roots of the cilia is attached by sutures to the upper border of the second incision. An extreme degree of inversion, by incurvation of the tarsal cartilage, may be overcome by Mr. Streatfeild's expedient. The skin of the lid having been dissected np, a long, narrow, wedge-shaped slice is excised froni the tarsal cartilage, forming a gi'oove extending the whole length of the tarsus. Excurvation is' thus produced, and the flap of skm being replaced is united with sutures.| * This drawing shows the first stage in the method of treating entropion recom- ™^^*^'TMJ(h-awing shows the second stage in Arlt's method of treating entropion. X For another method see Lancet, April 14, 1877.