PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. 555 peritoneum. Of the former, 7 died and 5 recovered,—the recoveries amounting, therefore, to only 41 per cent.; whereas, of the 26 cases of unopened peritoneum, 10 died and 16 recovered,—the proportion of recoveries amounting to 61 per cent. In all these cases, the large intestine was the seat of operation ; it was performed on the right side in 10 instances; in 4, the right colon and caecum were opened through the peritoneum, and all of these cases were fatal; whilst of the remaining 6, in which the right colon was opened behind the peri- toneum, 4 recovered. The advantage, therefore, on the right side, is in favour of the himhar, or Amussat's operation. On the left side, however, the results are less favourable. Of 8 cases in which the left colon was opened through the peritoneum, 5 recovered and 3 died; whilst of 20 cases in which the lumbar operation was performed, 11 recovered, but 9 were fatal. Respecting then any operation for the formation of artificial anus in intestinal obstruction, affecting the large intestine, these results weU deserve serious consideration. CHAPTER LIX. PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. In dropsy of the abdomen, whether ascites or ovarian, the peritoneal sac, or an ovarian cyst, becomes distended with fluid; and either cavity may be emptied of its contents by Tapinng. This is a very simple operation. The bladder having been emptied, the patient should be seated on the edge of a chair, or, if very weak, turned sideways to the edge of the bed; so that in either position the protuberant belly shall be exposed. A flannel roller, or a jack-towel, the breadth of the abdomen from above downwards, is then passed round, and the ends, crossing behind the loins, are given in JFis. 831. charge of an assistant on either side. They should draw the roller equably, to compress the abdomen uniformly, as the water flows. A small aperture is cut in the roller, corresponding to the point where the abdominal punc- ture is about to be made; namely, in the middle line, about two or three inches below the umbilicus. The Surgeon seating himself be- fore the patient, as placed in the sitting posture, he makes a .small vertical incision at the spot indicated, and through the intega- mental wound thus made, a large-sized trocar and cannula is thrust into the abdomen. (Fig. 831.) Or the thrust may be made at once, without any preparatory iuci.sion, the skin yielding without any appreciable