SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 496 whicli a pad-compress of lint sbould be applied, retained by a bandage, to prevent any re-descent of the hernia. It is well, however, to leave the lower angle of the wound open, to allow of the escape of bloody serous fluid. The sutures should not pass through the sac, and if the latter be of such size and thickness as to prevent the easy closure of the incision, a portion of the sac raay be removed for this purpose. When the sac is left occupied, and it is sought to establish an artificial anus, or such an opening has formed, the wound must be allowed to remain open. Treatment after Operation.—The general indications are—to restore the healthy state of the intestine and omentum, and to prevent or manage inflammation supervening as peritonitis,—and as complicated with a penetrating wound of the abdomen and a reduced state of the constitutional powers, in consequence of continual vomiting, starvation, suffering, and alarm. Two principles of treatment have been adduced, of opposite cha- racter ; and both having been advocated by Surgeons of the highest eminence, they each demand notice. In the one class are those Surgeons who administer purgatives almost immediately after the operation, and persist in their continuance "until the intestinal canal is completely unloaded." Calomel, castor oil, extract of colocynth, and sulphate of magnesia are administered by the mouth, and enemata per rectum. This plan of after-treatment was strongly advocated by Lawrence and Yelpeau. Another, and as I think a far more judicious class of practitioners, relying on the restorative power of nature—the strangulation having been relieved—have but little recourse to medicine. Care is taken to leave the intestine at rest for some days to recover itself, and that the diet be light and unirritating, in the shape of farinaceous food and milk ; while opium is had recourse to as occasion may require. Ac- cordingly, this plan of treatment may be generally stated in the follow- ing order:—The patient is placed on his back in bed, and not disturbed by talkative friends. Soon after the operation, a full dose of opium— thirty drops of the tincture—will be advisable. At this period, brandy- and-water may be given with advantage, in small quantities at inter- vals, as a stimulant; to recover the circulation from the state of prostration or collapse previous to the operation, and the effect of chloroform. The bowels will probably be relieved naturally within the first twenty-four hours. But if not, they may be allowed to remain inactive for three or four days, when a mild enema of gruel and castor oil, or salt and water, will be sufl&ciently laxative. Great distension and discomfort may justify relief at an earlier period; but cases not unfrequently proceed even to the healing of the wound without any intestinal action, and no evil consequence from the constipation. The diet, light and unirritating, must be given in small quantities at short intervals; the object being the support necessaiy for reparation with- out loading the intestine. Thirst, often a distressing symptom, will be greatly allayed by sucking pieces of ice iji the mouth. Peritonitis supervening, is denoted by the usual symptoms of pain in the neck of the sac, spreading over the abdomen ; this must be met by leeches, warm fomentations, and the ordinary treatment of peritoneal inflammation ; in its acute and sthenic, or its chronic and asthenic forms. This plan of treatment must, therefore, be modified according to the