SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. .nvi^f'"'' ^o^f^^-should it take place-may be detected on ^wH °^ deep-seated, semi-elastic, and flactaating swelling. It mast be punctured as soon as possible. Uicerahon is liable to occur, in a simple form, as tbe result of irrita- tion by decayed teeth; or in a specific form, as a manifestation of secondary syphilis. Fissures and milk-white stains or psoriasis on the dorsum of the tongue, coupled with the history of syphilis, will deter- mine the diagnosis. The treatment varies, of course, with the cause; the remoyal of a decayed tooth, and aperient stomachic medicines, may prove sufficient to heal the ulcer; or it must be treated as a secondary ±orm of syphilis, by the topical application of nitrate of silver, with the administration of iodide of potassium and bark. Mucous tubercle, gummy t'tmwur in the substance of the tongue, psoriasis, and ic/i%os/;s—apparently a raised form of the latter affection —are diseases which mostly have a syphilitic origin, and may be treated like manner. Eczema ■ and herpes—vesicular forms of eruption arise from local irritation or stomach derangement, which yield to appropriate treatment. Neuralgia of the tongue is an nncommon affection, and usually limited to one side of the organ. But the intense pain is aggravated by any movement, and sometimes extends to neighbouring "parts; as the_ jaw, ear, or temple. It may proceed from local irritation, as a carious tooth; or from gastro-intestinal derangement, or general debility. Treatment must be conducted accordingly. But faradization has proved curative; and so has excision of a portion of the lingual nerve. Spasm of the tongue is spoken of by Romberg as being some- times associated with neuralgia of the organ ; or as a symptom, perhaps, of hysteria or of meningitis. Tumours.—(1.) Cancer of the tongue occurs in, perhaps, three forms, Scirrhus commences as a firm, incompressible knob on the edge of the tongue, and situate often opposite the last molar or Avisdom tooth. Considerable pain and difficulty are experienced in moving the organ and in deglutition, and pain darts along the Eustachian tube towards the ear. The saliva flowing from the mouth, and foetid secretion accumulating in the throat and exciting cough, combine with the pain, sleeplessness, and want of nourishment, to reduce the patient. At length a deep excavated ulcer is produced, and hEemorrhages occasion- ally supervene. The submaxillary glands become involved; presenting first a circumscribed and then a diffused tumour in the neck, covered by reddened and thinned integument; this also ulcerates and discharges a thin foetid fluid, with occasional haemorrhage. Emaciation and cachexia ensue, according to the duration of the disease. Death took place in ten months, from arterial htemorrhage, in the case of the late Bransby Cooper. A deep excavation was found at the root of the tongue and the tissues around, extending to the muscles about the liyoid bone, and the adjoining lymphatic glands were infiltrated with cancer. Soft cancer, in the shape of an irregular lobulated mass, of reddish- brown colour, with vascular red points, and of a spongy succulent character, was the kind of malignant disease in a case recorded by Mr. Ceely, of Aylesbury. The tumour protruded from the mouth, and a large portion, weighing seventeen drachms and a half, was easily peeled off, exposing a large jagged sui-face covered with coagula. But