URINARY DEPOSITS. 643 quantity of acid is necessary to exhibit albumen,—not just an equivalent, which combining with the whole amount present, renders it insoluble, although heated; this would be too small a proportion of acid ; while an excess—above that proportion in which the nitrate of albumen is insoluble—redissolves it. To strike the balance, and moreover obviate all other possible difficulties to which I have referred, the right method of examining supposed albuminous urine is simply this :—Pour a small quantity— say, a fluid drachm—of the urine into a test-tube ; heat it to the boiling point, and then drop in two or three drops only of strong nitric acid. If phosphates have been precipitated by the heat applied, they will be redissolved, and the white flakes of coagulated albumen appear more clearly. On being allowed to stand, it will subside in the tube, leaving the urine above clear; thus defining the quantity of albumen present in any given quantity of urine examined. This will be found, as already said, to vary between two extremes : a slight white cloudiness subsiding as a little flaky deposit, or part or the whole sample becoming solid and white, like coagulated albumen of an egg, in the tube. To exactly Estimate the quantity of Albumen.—Either of the two following processes may be resorted to :— Take 500 grs. of the urine of twenty-four hours, and boil it in a flask, nitric acid being added subsequently, to secure coagulation of the albumen, and to dissolve any of the phosphates deposited by boil- ing. Then let the coagulated albumen subside by standing the flask, decant off the clear fluid, and throw the residue upon a weighed filter. Wash the collected albumen on the filter, with hot distilled water, to bring away saline matter; dry on the water-bath, and weigh. _ Or, acetic acid may be added, in just sufficient quantity, and the urine boiled, thus to effect coagulation. The process is then completed in like manner. Diagnostic Value.—The significance of albuminous urine in its per- sistence, which is pathognomonic of Bright's disease of the kidney. With rare exceptions, this disease is invariably accompanied with albu- minous urine, and this condition of urine persisting is a sure sign of that Fig. 871. disease, and of no other. Temporarily, albuminous urine is associated with many other diseases, as in fevers, and obstructions to the circulation. Bile in Urine.—Physical Charac- ters of Urine.—Colour, dark saffron, green, or black; leaving a bright yellow, or other stain, on white linen. Other characters are not peculiar. Microscojncal Characters.—Certain constituents of the bile, when present in urine, may be obtained in crystalhne forms. Taurme, as regular hexagonal prisms, with four or SIX sided sharp extremities, the elementary form being a right rhombic prism. Crystals of cholesterine may also be found (Pio- 871 ) Chemical Tests—ave the most delicate means of detectina- the presence ot biliary coloimng matters, means when escaping by the urine