792 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. having been destroyed, and the tissues intervening between it and the external surface, the urethral mucous membrane of the upper aspect or roof of the canal becomes visible from the outer orifice of the fistula. Such apertures may be found in similar situations to those of abscess-fistulse; as perineal, scrotal, and ante-scrotal or penile fistulas. The symptoms of urinary fistula, having reference to the act of micturition, are characteristic of the existence of such fistula ; and are tolerably distinctive as to its situation, size, and mode of origin. In all urinary fistulee the urine escapes, partly at least, by the fistu- lous opening or openings ; in the latter condition, the urine spurting out perhaps as if it were issuing from the rose of a water-pot. This may be often seen in perineal and scrotal fistula, where numerous openings frequently coexist. The situation of the internal opening is less correctly indicated, owing to the devious routes of the fistulous passages. But the seat of stricture will supply this information. According to the size of the fistulous communication, more or less urine will escape through the unnatural passages ; and proportionately, less or more by the urethra. And the mode of micturition in this respect is tolerably diagnostic of fistula which results from destruction of a portion of the urethral canal; the whole or nearly the whole of the urine then passing by the artificial channel in a full stream. Treatment.—When a stricture, followed by abscess, is the cause of the fistula, the primary indication of treatment will be the removal of that condition. This may be done in the usual manner ; by dilatation, internal urethrotomy occasionally, external urethrotomy more com- monly,—and usually the perineal section, owing to the situation of the stricture. Having thus succeeded in enabling the urine to flow by the natural channel, the fistulous passages are set at rest, and they not unfrequently contract and close. Thus, both simple and even indurated urinary fistuliB may be cured. But old, indurated fistulee are indisposed to heal, although the original cause has been thus removed. Recourse must be had to addi- tional treatment for this purpose. The measures remedial in chronic fistulge generally are here also applicable, and may have to be tried in succession. They are, chiefly—stimulating applications to the fistulous tract; compression; and incision along the course of the fistula to induce healing from the bottom. Of stimulating applications, various agents have been employed; in the form of injection by means of a fine syringe, as tincture of cantharides, solutions of nitrate of silver, sulphate of copper or of zinc. A prolae coated with fused nitrate of silver may be passed along the tract occasionally, and this wQl often succeed in causing contraction. The actual cautery is sometimes curative, applied in the form of a red hot wire, or the galvanic-wire cautery, which can be conveniently introduced along the tract before being heated by the current. Compression, by means of an india- rubber air-pad, applied to the perineum, has proved successful in some cases of perineal fistulee. Division of the fistulas along their course nearly to their origin in the urethra, can be accomplished as usual, with a grooved director and narrow, blunt-pointed bistoury. Several passages may be thus thrown into one, and strips of lint should then be inserted to provoke granulation from the bottom of the tract. During recourse to these measures for the cure of urinary fistulas