136 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. manifestation will be erythema and dry pimples. Or it might be that while vesicles, vesico-pustules, and excoriations may be present together on the hands, the lesion on the rest of the body will be one of papules only. The cause is identical in each instance ; the difEerence of lesion is traceable to the constitution of the individual. And the same maybe said of eczema and its causes—one while a dry, and another while a moist eruption; one while simply ichorous, another while semi-puru- lent ; and in different constitutions, an erythema, a papular eruption resembling lichen, a vesicular eruption, or a squamous eruption. It is customary to denominate an eruption of dry pimples—lichen, a misapplication of a classical term, but one in common use. It be- comes necessary, therefore, to distinguish between the papules of eczema and that form of papule which merits the distinction. A papule which is a part of eczema clearly belongs to that disease, hence the term eczema papulosum : but there are certain pimples resulting from folli- culitis which cannot at any stage be regarded as appertaining to eczema. Such are, a pale papule described by Willan under the name of strophulus ; an itchy papule allied with nettle-rash, lichen urticatus; a papule which would appear to be the product of scratching in pru- rigo ; a papule which embraces the shaft of a hair, lichen pilaris; and notably a pimple of quadrate figure and smooth flattened summit, the lichen planus. Lichen, as just intimated, is a papular prominence of the skin caused by hyperaemia of a follicle ; that is to say, folliculitis. But as the follicle is an integral part of the skin, we must explain under what circumstances a congested follicle becomes entitled to a separate designation. To realize this occurrence we are bound to recognize an inflammation of the skin which is simply superficial, such as an erythema, and another, albeit dilfering in degree alone, which sinks more deeply into the skin, and implicates the vascular lining of the follicle as well as the interfollicular papillary stratum. It is this im- plication which gives rise to a punctated erythema, and, in a more advanced stage of progress, to a prominence or papule ranging in height from the merest roughness to a distinct conical pimple, suscep- tible of running on to further developmental changes. Let us, for example, take the puncta of measles, which on the face very frequently become minute papules, which are distinct papules in scarlatina, and which become vesicles and pustules in the case of variola. Papules ma,y in this way become a complication of every form of inflammation of the skin. But, besides being a complication of other forms of cutaneous con- gestion, inflammation of the follicles may also assume an independent rank. Thus, in a languid condition of the skin, such as is frequently present at puberty, a state of congestion of the follicles of the face, chest, and back constitutes acne; a similar but more transient inflam- mation of the follicles may be induced artificially by the internal administration of the iodides or bromides, or the external use of tar. A prolonged use of poultices will give rise to a pustular folliculitis, as also will frictions with tartarized antimony. Hence we are led to a con- sideration of the follicle of the skin as an independent organ, and are enabled to note its pathological phenomena. The pustules of the skin take their origin in the walls of the follicles ; and excessive con- gestion of the follicles, with want of vital energy, gives rise to am