229 MORBID APPEAEANCES. ; £g obscured; tbe vision is generally, if carefully tested, impaired, but is sometimes surprisingly perfect. Optic neuritis usually occurs as an accompaniment of Bright's disease, of serious intra-cranial disease, and J of syphilis, or, more rarely, associated with diabetes, in all of which it is usually bilateral; but it may also result from the pressure upon the ophthalmic or retinal veins of a tumour growing in the orbit, in \ which case the term " choked disk" (in German, Statotmgspapille) has been applied to it, though it is very doubtful whether an accurate diagnosis can be established in life between optic neuritis from con- - stitutional causes and that from pressure. The optic disk, either with or without antecedent optic neuritis, may pass into a state of white atrophy, characterized by the colour and sharp definition. This con- dition, formerly named gutta serena, may result from cerebral disease, ] from antecedent optic neuritis, from glaucoma, and from embolism of ; the central artery of the retina. It also appears to proceed from the ! habitual abuse of alcohol and tobacco, and is generally associated with : retinitis pigmentosa. The state of. the vessels varies considerably, the ; retinal arteries and vessels in many instances long retaining their : normal size and volume; whilst in the atrophy consequent on embolism . of the ophthalmic or central artery, and in the atrophy of retinitis : pigmentosa, they are greatly diminished in size. Pitting, or in- . dentation of the extremity of the nerve, is often noticed in cases of . greatly impaired or lost vision. This concave appearance may either ; affect the central part only of the disk, in which case it is normal, : and has been termed the physiological cup; or the whole of the disk, 1 when it indicates past or present abnormal intra-ocular pressure, a <. condition that is constantly present in glaucoma. The more im- ; portant morbid appearances presented by the tunics are—a dusJcy I halo around the optic nerve, characteristic of optic neuritis, and I commonly attended with general dimness of sight, or amblyopia; i a white patch of variable extent and very irregular outline, imme- 1 diately surronnding the optic nerve, which is very characteristic of, 1 though not necessarily present in, myopia; yellovnsh-white spots and ' hsemorrhages scattered over the retina, in dimness of sight with Blight's disease ; black pigment deposits on the retina; white patches V of exposed sclerotic, often fringed with a black margin of pigment ; ( extravasations of blood, either from the choroid or retina, presenting, - after a time, a sHght brownish stain, a faint mottling, a linear or stel- i lated cicatricial appearance of a lighter colour than the surrounding 1 tissue. Serous effusion between the retina and choroid may occur as a ; result of acute or chronic inflammation. The acute form of effusion is ; part of that general disorganization, involving every tissue of the eye- : ball, which constitutes glaticoma. Chronic effusion may exist in such : a small quantity as merely to impart a cloudy appearance to a limited i portion of retina; or it may have detached a considerable extent or ' the whole of it from the choroid. Limited effusion is seen frequently i m the immediate neighbourhood of the optic nerve; appearing as I. cloudy greyish patches in the midst of healthy tissue, the radiating ' vessels spread over the rest of the fundus being lost at the edge of the ' patch. Alteration of focus will bring these vessels into view over the i patch. A large extent, or almost the entire retina, having become detached by effusion, exhibits an opaque greyish surface, or the whole ; fundus of the eye ; which contrasts with the reddish reflecting surface