249 FOLLICULAR ABSCESS OF THE MEATUS. a' body wliich will not swell, and has no cutting edge, will generally remain without causing any urgent symptoms. (4.) Seeing the body, determine by a probe if it be movable. If easily movable, concussion, with a downward position of the ear, will often remove it. (5.) Warm- water injection is the best of all methods of removing foreign bodies. (6.) If it be a vegetable substance, do not inject fluid, unless you have time to extract the body, either at the one operation or shortly after- wards. (7.) Injection failing, which is very exceptional, a Surgeon with the necessary appliances ought to be at once consulted, as, should urgent symptoms arise from the irritation in the attempted extraction, the extraction by incisions, galvano-cautery, boring out by trephine or conical file the centre of the substance and so causing it to collapse, or even detachment of the posterior attachment of the auricle, may be necessary. (8.) To attempt to extract a substance without seeing it is highly dangerous. Follicular Abscess, or furuncle of the meatus, arises generally in a hair follicle or in one of the ceruminous glands. These often occur as a result of some constitutional affection, and are then associated with.' boils in other parts of the body. The frequent use of astringent lotions, especially of a solution of alum, appears to place the meatus in con- ditions favourable to their development, if not the actual cause of their growth. They also occur as complications of eczema, of suppurative ■ disease of the middle ear, where violent syringing has been used or where the disease has not been treated, and of other irritants of the : meatus. They are most frequent in middle-aged people. These ! abscesses appear at first as swellings of various sizes, with broad bases i and with ill-defined borders, their colour being scarcely redder than 1 that of the normal skin. The symptoms they occasion are—great ! throbbing and pain; a feeling of tension consequent on the pressure i of the accumulated pus on the unyielding skin and connective tissue; 1 fever in the evening; tinnitus of a knocking or hammering character i in the head; and a certain amount of deafness. When occurring at 1 the entrance of the meatus, or in other favourable positions, they are ( comparatively painless, but when they occur near the membrana 1 tympani the pain is severe. In some cases it is impossible to prevent t their recurrence, which may go on for years. Where the abscess is not fully developed, the treatment consists in t arresting its formation. This may be accomplished by painting the 5 swelling with a solution of nitrate of silver (^ss. to ^i. to ^i. of water), or > a solution of sulphate of zinc of the same strength. If the abscess is » already formed, the pus must be given free exit by incising the swelling • according to the usual rules. The formation of a vacuum by means of Siegle's speculum, in order to completely empty the abscess of pus, and to obtain a free flow of blood from the wound, will be found of s service. The application of moist heat, by frequently filling the meatus » with warm water and laying over it a cataplasm for about half an 1: hour, and, if there is great pain, leeches in front of the tragus, or a roU ot cotton saturated with glycerine, must follow, to relieve the patient land bring the abscess to a favourable termination. Constitutional treatment will be required to prevent the development of other furun- cles. Mr. Hinton considered that the application of red or white precipitate ointment acted as a preventive. Narrowiwj of Ihe Rdemal Meatus.—Contractions occur in the bony,