414 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. form can be detected, and the diagnosis confirmed, by an instrument designated the "rotation-measurer." A ijrimarily dorsal curve presents certain varieties, depending on its causes or mode of production, and which are of practical conse- quence. The weigU-learing curve—in Mr. Barwell's experience—is uniformly the same ; it occupies the upper three-fourths of the dorsal region, and the compensatory lumbar curve commences with the lower fourth vertebra. A perpendicular line, from the last cervical vertebra to tho middle of the sacrum, crosses the double curve once, at the ninth dorsal vertebrse. The most aberrant vertebrte are the fifth dorsal to one side, the second lumbar to the other. A well-marked veHical rounded eminence of muscular contraction runs upward from the back part of the ilium to the most aberrant vertebrae. The respiratory curve varies with its origin; namely, some ex- ternal canse restraining abnominal respiration, or some internal and pulmonary disease. This curve much resembles that produced by weight-bearing; but the vertical line of muscular development is absent, and the second curve is proportionately less. Curves of in- ternal origin assume a variety of shapes ; a short and sharp curve, particularly if high up, will probably be the consumptive curvature; a longer curve, high np, results probably from pleurisy; and a long curve, low down, proceeds mostly from pneumonia. The situation and form of these dorsal curves will, therefore, materially determine the diagnosis of lateral curvature having a respiratory origin. Both kinds of dorsal curvature—weight-bearing and respiratory— lie to the right side, generally ; but as respiratory curves are invariably so, excepting in lung disease or the rare instance of visceral trans- position, any primarily dorsal curve to the left will be weight-bearing. Causes.—Age has an immediate relation to lateral curvature of the spine ; this deformity taking place mostly about the age of puberty, and in gii-ls. It would seem that at that period of life, and in the female sex more particularly, the bust and shoulders undergo develop- ment, and become more weighty than in proportion to the supporting stability of the vertebral column and its ligamentous connections. This naturally increased weightiness of the thorax may be augmented by certain occuijations, as that of nurse-gii'ls by carrying an infant con- stantly on one arm. Or again, the erector mnscles of the spine, in common with the whole muscular system, may be in an atonic and weakened state, relatively to the increasing weight thrown upon them by the development of the ti"unk ; and this muscular weakness is more liable to occur in females as a result of the aneemia of disordered men- struation. Certain occupations which compel an habitual one-sidedness of posture, provoke lateral curvature of the spine ; as writing, drawing, playing the harp, or other exercises in the course of school training. One of the most extreme cases I ever met with had occurred in a lad, from carrying a medicine-basket on one arm, eight or nine hours daily, for a period of five years. From increasing weight of the trunk, weakness of the supporting muscles, or from both causes, favoured by any occupation conducive to the operation of either cause, lateral curvature is liable to result. Inequality in the length of the legs, from any cause, has some influence in producing lateral curvature; but wliich, according to Mr. W. Adams's observations, has been greatly