HEMORRHOIDS, EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL. 569 without any appearance of cells, and connected by a dense cellular texture. Plastic infiltration of the cellular texture takes place around either form of pile, investing the sacculus or cyst; and hypertrophy of the skin results. TJltimately, an old external pile atrophies or wastes, in. respect to its venous constituent, leaving only the integument in the shape of a loose pendulous prolongation of skin,—a cutaneous excres- cence, which is sometimes regarded as another form of external pile. The sijminovis of external Piles relate to these various stages of progressive development and decline of this haemorrhoidal affection. It appears at or near the verge of the anus, in the form of one or more small, rounded, or oblong tumours, which are soft and compressible, and of a Hvid blue tinge. "When largely produced around the anus, a bunch of these venous swellings somewhat resembles Hamburg grapes, to which they have been compared in appearance. They are accom- panied with a painfully depressing sense of bearing-down falness at the fundament, especially in the standing posture and after any straining effort of defecation or micturition ; heat, itching, or smarting add to the patient's discomfort. A crack occurring, sometimes, at the base of an external pile, the irritation and pain thus occasioned aggravate the hfemorrhoidal suffering. When coagulation takes place in the sacculated venous dilatation, or in a cyst resulting from rupture of the vein and extravasation of the blood into the surrounding cellular texture, the tumour becomes solid, harder, and proportion- ately incompressible; its colour also is less clearly blue, as the vein, cellular texture, and skin become thickened. The fold of skin, which contained the dilated vein, remains, as the vein subsides; and the tumour then presented is a loose, pendulous bit of anal integument. This result is simulated from time to time during the active state of an external pile ; the tumour being loose and flaccid when empty in the interval of an attack, and again tense whenever congestion super- venes. In this state—that of congestion—external piles are occasion- ally liable to inflammation, accompanied with increased enlargement of the hsemorrhoid, forming an oval tumour, tense, red, and acutely tender. Suppuration may ensue, converting the pile into an abscess y this bursting, the clot of blood escapes with the pus, and when the abscess closes, the venous dilatation usually becomes obliterated ; thus reducing the pile to a small flap of integument. A fistulous opening sometimes remains, which might be mistaken for the orifice of a blind external fistula. Examination with a probe, as to its depth, will at once show the difference. Internal Haemorrhoids undergo a parallel series of structural changes. The lower or smaller veins of the plexus, and ultimately the larger veins higher up, are dilated irregularly or into pouches, filled with dark coagula, often compact and hard. A bunch of varicose veins, crowded in the lower ends of the longitudinal folds of the rectal mucous membrane, forms prominent projections of this membrane ^ thus deepening the pouches there existing, between the folds. A number of smaller dilated veins also sometimes form in the short columnar processes which are situated in the spaces between the folds. Two or three of the larger prominences of the longitudinal folds, meeting below, coalesce; forming a transverse fold just within the sphincter. (Pig. 837.) The arteries, which are abundantly supplied to the lower* art of the rectum, and have a longitudinal course towards the orifice