OVARIAN TUMOURS. 859 Diagnosis—Oynvisin tumours must be distinguished from other ab- dominal tumours :—from the gravid uterus in pregnancy, tumours of the uterus, omental tumours; ascites, hydatids, dropsy of the Fallopian tubes ; enlargements' of the liver, kidney, spleen, and stomach ; hyste- rical tympanitis, faecal accumulations, and distension of the bladder; abdominal and pelvic abscesses, and as proceeding from spinal curva- ture. The utmost care and caution must be taken in the diagnosis, before laying open the abdominal cavity for the removal of a supposed ovarian tumour, and then only discovering its real nature. Causes.—1:^0 period of life is free from the liability to ovarian dis- ease. During the whole period of sexual activity, it is of tolerably frequent occurrence; but in the latter half, or from thirty to forty- five, it is most frequent. It is very rare in childhood; and decidedly uncommon after the complete cessation of menstruation. It is rela- tively more common in single than in married women ; and of the latter, a large portion have been sterile, or not readily impregnated. Age and social condition afford little or no aid in the diagnosis of°an abdominal tumour, as to its being ovarian. _ Sterility or feeble fecundity is an association of somewhat more significance, but the sexual functions may be quite healthy. Bate of Growth—Generallj, in from two to ^7iree_years from_ the commencement, or first discovery, of the tumour, it will have attained to such size as to occupy the abdomen, and produce various incon- veniencies as the result of pressure on the viscera. Sometimes the growth is much more rapid, and occasionally, especially in the aged, it may be much slower. The natural course of ovarian tumours subsequently is less certainly known, treatment usually having been resorted to when it has become a source of serious inconvenience. But in patients under forty years, ovarian dropsy, not interfered with, gradually undermines the general health; partly by functional derangements in consequence of unrelieved pressure, and partly by the demands of the tumour as a drain on the patient's strength. Thus, by pressure, the process of assimilation is interrupted; the circulation obstructed so that the legs become oede- matous; the respiration embarrassed by upward displacement of the diaphragm and ribs. The patient can no longer rest in the recumbent posture, and, worn out by sleepless nights and protracted suffering, death ensues at the end of one or two years from the date of abdo- minal inconvenience. Sometimes, intercurrent attacks of peritonitis, or of one of the cysts in the tumour, carry off the sufferer before the period of what may be called her natural release. Spontaneous cure has been known to occur; either by cessation of secretion and then progressive absorption ; or by rupture of a single cyst into the peritoneal cavity, the intestine, or the vagina, and thence the subsidence of the tumour. But the former mode of cure is a very are event; the latter has happened occasionally, yet always in a nanner precarious or perilous. Barnes relates cases of spontaneous :;ure by perforation and discharge into the intestine. Treatment.—No medicinal measures, internal or topical, have any influence in curing ovarian tumours. Surgical treatment comprises— (1) the Palliative operation of Paracentesis or tapping, repeatedly per- formed as occasion may require ; (2) Tapping, with various measures for inducing Obliteration of the cyst; as by injection of tincture of