707 LITHOTRITY. Fig. 891. fingers of tlie right hand, and the screw worked gradually from left to riglit, thus propelling the male branch forwards on the stone. If the rack-and-key lithotrite be used, the handle is held between the fingers of the right hand, backwards, as in drawing a cork with a corkscrew • and worked also by a number of short and sharp turns of the wrist! But the screw-acting lithotrite, as already explained, surpasses either of these insti'uments. In either mode of crushing, by hand-pressure or screw-pressure, the male branch must be sent home into the female branch, so that the blades come together. This object is known to be obtained by observing that the entire length of the rack or screw passes down the lithotrite. Then the instrument can be safely withdrawn. The fragments must be got out of the bladder as soon as possible, but not by a prolonged use of the instrument; lest in removing one source of irritation and infl^ammation, another be substituted. The crushing should not be repeated, unless the stone is small and friable, and can easily be reduced at once. This first sitting should be short' not exceeding five minutes. ' Detritus can be removed amounting to a considerable quantity, and containing some not insignificant fragments. ' For this purpose, the bladder should be washed out with tepid water, injected through a large- sized and large-eyed double-current catheter. Clover's lithotritic injection-apparatus consists of a series of such catheters, with an india- rubber bottle, the nozzle of which fits the open- ing in the stem of the instrument. By repeat- ing the injection three or four times, the fluid drawn off at last- ceases to contain any detritus. This was Civiale's practice. But the elastic suction bottle, with stop-cock and catheter (Fig. 891)—as also devised by Mr. Clover— answers sometimes more effectually. Gene- rally, however, it is unnecessary to wash out the bladder. After-Treatment.—The patient should lie in bed, recumbent, for twenty-four hours, and not be allowed to stand or stoop forward in passing water, lest fragments might fall against or lodge on the neck of the bladder, greatly increasing the risk of irritation. Diluent drinks will promote the discharge of the detritus. In elderly persons with enlarged prostate, the discharge of fragments is impeded, and Sir a. Brodie recommends that the bladder should be washed out dailv bubsequent sittings will be required to crush the fragments Intervals of from three days to a week should elapse; when the hZtri "^^^ ^^'■^^P'. prolonged to ten minutes at a time, as the sides Sf^f^r"' ^f^'f'"'^^^ \° instrument, or its irritabil ty sub- sides with the gradual removal of -the calculus. Generally from three crushed* ^^'S^'-'' b'sS; in ill Jf''^?'^"! ^^-^^^ after-crushings, Civiale's lithotrite with no slit m the female blade, is very serviceable for breaking down and removing