DISEASES OF THE BEEAST. 451 as gentian, calumba, and liumulus lupnlus, aid the digestion or primary assimilation of food. _ . • i x at. There is, therefore, apparently a rnnnmg connection between these known measnres,—a nourishing, well-selected diet, anodynes, and tonics, and they constitute the principal resources of the hygienic and medicinal plan of treatment, in respect to Cancer. By combined observation and judgment in the application of this plan, and by pur- suino- it perseveringly, doubtless many cases of scirrhus of the breast haye°been kept in abeyance—and life prolonged far beyond the average period of duration in this form of Cancer-growth. Compression has been extolled as having an almost or absolute curative efficacy. Various means have been employed ; the slack air- onshion of Dr. Arnott, or plasters, which, besides supporting the tumour, may have some medicinal inflaence in arresting its growth. But the pretensions of this method are, I believe, now renounced, and indeed any such applications are generally discarded. The arrest of a reproductive growth, as cancer, is not to be accomplished simply by mechanical repression of the tumour; nor, in the face of its inherent power of growth, can the tumour be made to undergo absorption. Any apparently successful results of this principle of treatment have been altogether exceptional; and probably, therefore, were due to other concurrent causes of cure. Ulcerated cancer must be treated as any other open sore, accord- ing to its varying condition. Sloughing should be met by poultices, and cleansing lotions of chloride of zinc, permanganate of potash, or carbolic acid; in conjunction with sedatives, such as morphia, conium, or belladonna, to "allay pain. Heemorrhage may be restrained by the ice-bag temporarily applied, or by means of astringent powders or lotions, such as tannin or tincture of the perchloride of iron. CEdema of the arm, in the advanced stage of the disease, can be somewhat relieved by moderate bandaging and elevation of the limb. Conditions favourable for operation.—In .proportion to the purely local and isolated condition of the cancer, its removal is justifiable, or favourable—in relation to the prolongation of liEe. This local state carries with it a commensurate share of constitutional power. Hence, in the early stage of cancer, when it is as yet small and movable,^ with- out adhesions or implications of surrounding parts—either in the integument by adhesion or ulceration, or the lymphatic glands by enlargement and induration—and consequently when there is little or constitutional cachexia, the breast may be removed with the most favourable prospect of prolonging life. Mr. Birkett extends this prin- ciple to some degree of advancement in the progress of the disease ; as even then offering an advantage, compared with allowing it to run its course. Accordingly, an operation may be undertaken with advan- tage when the disease has extended to the skin without infiltrating the cutaneous tissue to a wide extent, when ulceration has taken place, and even when the axillary lymphatic glands are distinctly indurated and somewhat enlarged. Conditions unfavourable for operation.—The following general rules represent the conditions, local and constitutional, wherein the balance of advantage is clearly against operation. They are thus stated by Sir James Paget:—(1.) In well-marked chronic cancers, especially in old persons, the probability that operation will add to either the com-