DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. 205 near tlie margin o£ the cornea, and accompanied by considerable pain at nio-ht. The sclerotic is mncb congested. S^miscb's nicer is a very slowly progressive form of ulceration, in wbicb a groove forms round the margin of the cornea. The epithelium separates from the central part of the cornea, and, if recovery take place, the form of the cornea is modified and more or less opacity produced, which seriously impairs vision. It chiefly occurs in elderly Pfsons. The prognosis of corneal ulcer is favourable, with the exception ot the Ssemisch's ulcer. , . , j mi. ■ i-n f The treatment may be summed up m a few words. The instillation of atropine solution (gr. ii. or iv. ad 5j. aq.) to relieve irritability, dilate the pupil, and diminish the risk of penetration ; rest, to be secured by closing the lids and applying a pad and bandage ; local depletion by means of a few leeches; and the administration of certain remedies, as of quinine, cod-liver oil, and a little grey powder m the ulcers of children, or T. aconiti (THiii.) and vin. colchici (lUv.—x.) and quinia m the rheumatic form. Ssemisch's ulcer is best treated by passing a Grafe's knife into the anterior chamber through the margin of the cornea ; then turning it half round, and cutting outward through all the layers of the cornea. Nutrition must be promoted by tonics and diet. Of local stimulant applications, by eye-drops or eye-washes, nitrate of silver is the most efficient adjunct to the general treatment. _ Its use should not be continued too long, lest an insolable deposit taking place in the ulcer, opacity may result. Lead-lotions, on .this account, are wholly inadmissible. ... Sicip7i2/Zo9iia.—Protrusion of the cornea, probably involving the iris, results whenever the cornea, in whole or in part, has been destroyed by injury or disease, and a cicatrix having formed, it there bulges for- wards before the pressure of the humours of the globe ; presenting an opaque white prominence. Treatment should be directed to the arrest of such _ projection. Nitrate of silver applied to its apex may induce just sufficient inflam- matory deposit to thicken and strengthen the yielding cornea. A small, conical staphyloma, not involving the iris, may be shaved off, and the edges brought together with a very fine needle and silk; cicatrization will then, perhaps, brace up the cornea and prevent any further pro- trusion. (2.) CoNTCAL Cornea.—A rare deformity, in which the cornea has become extremely convex, but retains its transparency, and gives a remarkably brilliant appearance to the eye. The conical shape of the cornea is well seen in profile. Dissection has shown that the apex of the cone is very much thinned. The position and movements of the iris remain unchanged, and the other tissues of the eye unaffected. But the patient—usually between twenty and thirty—grows short- sighted, and at last becomes totally blind. Treatment.—rA method of operative procedure suggested by Mr. Bowman sometimes gives good results, but it requires very delicate manipulation. It consists in removing the anterior layers of the apex of the cornea, by means of a small- trephine, leaving, however, the posterior lamella. This is now pricked with a needle, to allow the escape of the aqueous humour, and a firm pad and bandage applied. Another mode of relief has been found in compensating optical con- trivances. Deeply concave and astigmatic glasses enable the patient to