SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 838 connection is impracticable; and thus there is loss of sexual power, and apparently, at least, o£ procrcative power. Passive Spermatorrhoea denotes an excitability of the testes as secretory orphans, whereby an excessive secretion or flux of seminal fluid is easily provoked, usually of a thin spurious character; and accompanied with irritability of the ejaculatory muscles, and of the erector muscles of the penis ; while the constitutional condition is one of general debility. The common catcse of this state of mixed generative irritability and constitutional debility is habitual masturbation or self-abuse. This pernicious habit is acquired often at an early age, before puberty, by evil example or conversation among boys, who are intimately associated in Schools and other Institutions. A practice thus engendered, before moral control has yet been developed, and indulged in ignorance of its sad consequences, may be rectified only perhaps by marriage, or per- haps continued until it has wrecked its victim,—physically, intel- lectually, and morally. Spermatori'hoea is less frequently the conse- quence of suppressed sexual desire. It seems also more common in the upper and middle, than in the lower ranks of life, regarded socially; and among the educated and studious, than among those who have early followed some bodily avocation, or have been accustomed to the healthful games and outdoor pastimes of youth. At first, sensual emissions happen only occasionally; once a fort- night or in a week, and usually in the morning between sleeping and waking, or as nocturnal emissions. After a while they become more frequent, perhaps three or four times a week, and occur during the day ; under any slight emotional excitement, a word or even a look; or from some slight irritation, as by the movement of a carriage, or by any straining exertion, especially at stool. Ultimately, the emissions occur every twenty-four hours, and sometimes twice or thrice daily; the semen flowing back into the neck of the bladder, and escaping with each act of micturition or defecation. The physical consequences of spermatorrhoea are evinced by general debility, and disorder of the various functions; indigestion, palpitation of the heart, breathlessness, nervousness, epileptic and amaurotic symptoms, or even paralysis. The intellectual and moral decay are manifested by a general impairment of mental vigour, especially inability to fix the attention, and loss of memory ; and by loss of moral courage, great depression of spirits and despondency or despair, shyness, reserve, and solitariness. Altogether, the pallid, vacant-looking, dejected, and lonely victim of spermatorrhoea, in its advanced stage, is a wretched spectacle which can scarcely be mistaken. He is often made worse, and his mental sufl^erings are aggi-avated, by_ reading some of the abominable and lying publications of quacks audi extortionists; he is thus also entrapped into their dens, where his} worst fears are speedily confirmed by personal influence, and his. pecuniary resources drained to the last shilling, or incredible sumsj abstracted for promised cure. In one such case of imposition, agentle^ man came to me for relief, whose penis was strangulated at the rooti by means of a broad metallic ring, furnished with a screw which" tightly compressed a plate of metal on the urethra; the whole con-' trivance forming a vice in which his penis had been placed by one of the daily advertising impostors and which he had been ordered to