SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 606 In the female, the ureters pass along the sides of the cervix uteri and upper part of the vagina to reach the bladder; and the vasa detercntia, vesiculas seminales, and prostate gland are absent ihe summit or superior fundus of the bladder, covered behind hv peritoneum, is free in front, where that membrane is reflected upwards to the abdominal wall by the three cords already mentioned, namelv the two obliterated hypogastric arteries, and the urachus in an interviil between them ; this anterior and uncovered portion of the summit looks towards the abdominal wall above the pubes. Here the bladder can be punctured without wounding the peritoneum. Convolutions of the small intestine rest upon the top of the bladder, and sink down behind its posterior surface into the peritoneal pouch,—recto-vesical or utero-vesical, cul-de-sac. ' Internal Surface of the Bladder.—The inner surface of the mucous coat of the bladder presents certain characters worthy of notice and some peculiarities which mark the interior. ' The mucous membrane is soft and smooth, and of a pale rose colour; it is studded with minute follicles, most numerous near the neck of the bladder, and the whole surface is covered with a spheroidal epithelium. The vesical mucus has, it is said, an alkaline reaction, and contains alkaline and earthy phosphates. The membrane—havinc^ these characters—is loosely attached to the muscular coat by means of the subcellular layer; so that when the bladder is empty, the surface generally is thrown into small internal folds or wrinkles, and when distended, there is some tendency to protrusion in the intervals of the muscular bands—thus, perhaps, giving rise to sacculation ot the bladder. The inferior fundus is the most capacious and dependent part of the bladder; in front, it presents a small triangular space,—the trigone vesical; situated immediately behind the orifice of the urethra, the apex of this space is directed forwards to that orifice, and the base is a transverse line slightly curved forwards, between the orifices of the two ureters, which form the posterior angles of the space; while the sides are marked by two linear ridges passing obliquely backwards and outwards from the urethra to the ureters, and which correspond to two small fasciculi of muscular fibres,—the muscles of the ureters, lying under the mucous membrane. These muscles arise from behind the middle lobe of the prostate, and pass to the oblique slit-like open- ings of the ureters; they may, therefore, so act upon these openings, as to maintain their obliquity and thus prevent any reflux of urine into the tubes; or, by drawing their apertures downwards, may facilitate the flow of urine into the bladder. The trigone—having the boun- daries already noticed—corresponds to the triangular space at the base of the bladder, which lies between the prostate in front, and the peri- toneal pouch behind, bounded laterally by the vasa deferentia and vesiculsB seminales; but the triangular space within the bladder is of even more limited extent, measuring from the apex backwards about one inch and a half, and between the two posterior angles—at tlie orifices of the ureters—from that to two inches transversely. The sur- face of this space is smooth, the mucous membrane being somewhat thinner than elsewhere, aud adherent to the subjacent texture; thus never presenting any little folds, even in an empty state of the bladder. But this area in the inferior fundus is the most sensitive portion of the whole interior. In front of the apo.v of the trigone a small transverse