402 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. iiump-back —a promnience of the spinous processes of tho Pig. 731* Pig. 732.t vertebrae posteriorly at the seat of curva- ture. (Fig. 731.) When, in rare cases, canes is restricted to a central portion of ,. ., , ^l^e body of a vertebra (Fig. 732), the spinal column retains its normal shape,-there is no excurvation. ^ Ihe spmal column occupying the middle line of the body and being equal y balanced laterally, it bends forward in that line without lateral deviation. Some such inclination is apt to take place, to one side or the other, only in the dorso-lumbar and lumbar regions, where the spine has the greatest latitude of motion. At iirst also, the degree of angular deformity backwards corresponds to and represents the amount of destruction of the bodies of the vertebra. But the human fi^ure- unlike the permanent direction of an inclining column of brickwork, or other dead weight, yielding in the middle-has some compensatory power of gradually restoring itself to the perpendicular; thereby cor- recting any iiTegularity in the line of gravity. The spinal column is, m fact a flexible pillar of support, and subject to the action of muscles. Accordingly, as Mr. Shaw observes, a person with angular curvature ot recent occurrence, and tending, therefore, to tumble head foremost, gradually regains the line of gravity. Habitually throwing the head and shoulders backward, he walks as if with an air of pride; so that the angular excurvation ultimately becomes combined with two incur- vations, one above, and the other below, in contrary directions; the who e spme assuming an appearance, in profile, not unlike a double bracket ( { ). If angular curvature takes place at the very base of the spinal column, thus allowing the whole trunk to incline forward, any such restoration of equilibrium will be impossible; and the patient gropes along with the body horizontal to the legs. The thorax falling down, with the spme above the point of curvature, becomes shut up, as » St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., E. 9. Carious destruction of the bodies of several . dorsal vertebra); with angular curvature of the spine, posteriorly. Prom a girl, aged fifteen ; duration of carvature, two years. •■ >^ J 5 . . t Ibid., E. 35 Central caries of tho body of a vertebra, fourth lumbar, with reparative deposit of bone under the anterior common ligament, resulting in anchy- losis of the adjoining vertebra). Owing to the situation of the carious destruction, tne body 01 the affected vertebra remains supported, and no angular curvature of the spme has taken place. x i » &