97 STUMP-DKESSING. Fig. 533.* In malignant or other recurring disease, tlie risk of recurrence in the long flap would be far greater than in two shorter ones, the bone being sawn at the same level. If primary union fail, the bulging of the large anterior flap will be more unmanageable than that of the two smaller flaps. The apparent advantages of Professor Spence's modification of this operation are—that the a.uterior flap is less liable to slough, and in after-dressing it tends moi'e to lie in position ; while the sec- tion of the bone being above the lines of both incisions, affords a deeper and more permanent covering to the bone-end, with less exposure of cut surface.' Moreover, an anterior flap of four inches in length will suflBce where the limb is twelve inches in circumference; whereas, in Teale's amputa- tion, the flap in such a part would have to be six inches long; consequently, Spence's method is eligible in parts of a limb, and under circumstances where the other ampu- tation could not be performed. In the lower third of the thigh, more particularly, this modified Teale's amputation is specially suitable. The form of the flaps in the common amputations, as performed in both the upper and lower limbs, is here delineated. (Fig. 533.) Stumps.—A good sUmip comprises cer- tain essential requisites :—that the bone be provided with ample covering of soft tex- tures; and so formed that the bone-end shall not bear directly on the line of union in the resulting cicatrix; that the nerves be divided sufiiciently high up to prevent their extremities becoming adherent to the bone-end or to the cicatrix, and, being thus deeply covered, to protect them from ex- ternal pressure, and from atmospheric in- : fluence. Dressing of a Stump.—Tlhe general plan of putting up a stump, and ; ffer-dressmg, IS as follows :~Supposing, for example, it be a stump of toe thigh, the flaps or wound should be well cleansed of any blood or ■ chance foreign matter, by gently sluicing the surfaces with cold water T!fT ^ ^""^^^ 'P°^S^' ^ '^^^i^ catching the streams under- neath the stump. A weak solution of carbolic acid may be used, in ; wr^'^'f' ^°ti«eptic. The surfaces must then be adjusted so t that the edges lie evenly and easily in contact when brought together. tion in ih,. i«o^. Q : •" -.r"-^-"^i^utiiLiuii -M, aiiKie-jomt; 2, Teale's amputa- ampu bv faV.;niTP'' ''p''^ l^F' \ knee-joiBt; 5, in'thigh, Vermale's amputation by lateral flaps; 6, amputation byantero-posterior flaps; 1, at hip-joint. H