TREATMENT OF INGUINAL HERNIA. 615 Fig. 796. for double inguinal hernia.) Salmon and Ody's truss is a most efficient form of support; I have used it successfully where other inguinal trusses have failed; its special advantage being the immovable pad. (2.) Cole's truss differs little from the preceding, in the spring ; but it IS applied to the side of the body on which the hernia occurs. The speciality of construction, as patented, is, however, in the pad; it is pear-shaped, and contains within it a flat helical spring, which acts as the baU-and-socket joint, but retains the pad more accurately fixed against the internal abdominal ring. (Fig. 796.) The strap around the waist, as here depicted, is an exceptional appendage ; it having been added, by Mr. Bigg, for a patient with an abscess just above the hip- joint, where the shghtest touch could not be borne on the part subject to the pressure of an ordinary Cole's truss. This also is a most efficient truss, especially perhaps for inguinal hernia of larger size, where the abdominal rings are more open; but-—allowing the more favourable shape of the pad for this special purpose—the action of the helical spring tends to bury the pad, and thus dilate the internal abdominal ring,—the aperture of protrusion; and I do not find the pad so freely movable in accordance with the ever-varying movements of the trunk, in walk- ing or riding on horseback. (3.) Tod's truss has two pecaliarities of construction : a spring which passes over the crest of the ilium, and not below it across the buttock—thereby apparently exercising a more direct control over the inter- nal ring; and a diminished size of the pad. The former supposed advantage is, I think, suffi- ciently provided for by the ball-and-socket joint over the pad, without the specially obHque posi- tion of the spring; and the latter peculiarity, a smaller-sized pad, is a positive disadvan- tage, by tending to bury itself and thus enlarge the internal ring. (4.) The Mac-Main truss is a Zever-truss, and Bigg's trifle Ze-yer-truss, another of the same kind of instrument; inguinal lever-trusses. The former consists of a padded leather pelvic band Fig. 797. and a large oval pad. But the pad is stuffed with floss silk, in the midst of which a small metal lever is placed. A thigh-strap is attached by one extremity to this lever, and controls its action when the truss is in use. The advantage of this instrument is its flexibility, whereby