735 DISEASES OP THE PROSTATE. previously had wetted his bed perhaps every night, may at length retain his water; care being taken not to allow the whole night to pass without seeing that the little patient's bladder is relieved voluntarily. With proper management, the child will, after puberty, generally out- grow the complaint. In adults.—Catheterism, to relieve the distended bladder, is always the primary indication of treatment. Other remedial measures must have reference specially to the causes of incontinence. In cases of an incurable character, a urinal may be worn with great comfort. Various contrivances have been used, such as a gum-elastic bag on the inner side of the thigh, attached by a tube to the penis. (Fig. 900.) Bngokgement of the Bladder, and overflow of Urine. — The regorgement of the bladder, of French authors, consists in partial re- tention of urine, and occasional overflov), of quite an involuntary character. It depends on the mechanical obstruction of enlarged pro- state ; this body rising up at the neck of the bladder and forming a con'esponding receptacle behind it, in which urine accumulates. When the fluid rises above the level of the enlarged prostate, an overflow takes place, leaving the bladder still engorged. This state of repletion and overflow is proportionate to the size and obstruction offered by the prostate. The treatment by catheterism, as peculiar to enlarged prostate, will be described with that condition. Retention of Urine.—This absence of micturition is considered in connection with Stricture of the Urethra. CHAPTER LXIII. diseases of the peostatb. The Prostate Grland, surrounding the neck of the bladder and com- mencement of the urethra, is subject to certain Diseases: Inflam- mation or Prostatitis, acute and chronic; Hypertrophy or simple enlargement, in advanced age; Atrophy; Cancer; Cysts; Tubercle; Calculus. These diseases, identical in their nature with the same diseases of other parts, require notice only in so far as they present symptoms peculiar to the prostate, and relative to the bladder; which accordingly modify the treatment. Inflammation op the Prostate, or Prostatitis.—Actite prostatitis rarely occurs unconnected with inflammation of the bladder or of the urethra. Symptoms.—A sensation of weight and fulness is experienced about the neck of the bladder, rectum, and perineum; frequent and painful micturition, the pain increasing towards the close of the act; with a constant straining desire to evacuate the bowel, and great pain in deffecation, the motions having a somewhat flattened form ; while an enlarged and exquisitely tender state of the prostate is discovered by