SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUBGERY. 480 of the sac; either of whicli alterations of shape will further prevent reduction. The great size of a hernia may render it permanently irre ducible, in consequence of the visceral protrusion having formed for itself a new abdomen, and the proper abdominal cavity having under- gone an altered capacity, while the viscera in either cavity have become accommodated to their new situation and relations. Hernia of the C£Bcum or of the bladder is irreducible, owing to their peculiar anato- mical conditions. Consequences.—The increasing size and weight of an irreducible hernia entails proportionate mechanical inconvenience, coupled with occasional dragging pains, nausea, or vomiting, and coHcky flatulence, with disordered action of the bowels. Besides all this inherent dis' comfort, the hernial contents are liable to the accidental peril of inflam- mation, from injury by blows or other external violence, or from strangulation, on any occasion of unusual exertion. Omental hernia is less dangerous than intestinal protrusion, but there is always the risk of a piece of bowel slipping down and causing strangulation. Treatment.—The indications are twofold: to prevent any increase of size, by additional protrusion; and the peril of inflammation thence arising, or from external violence. The support of a truss, mth a large hollow pad for the protection of the hernia, will best fulfil these indi- cations ; but a very large hernia must be supported by means of a sus- pensory bag. Any violent exertion, or constipation, should be avoided as much as possible. Reduction can sometimes be accomplished by diminishing the con- tents of the hernial sac. Mr. Bransby Cooper recommended a gradual course of treatment—confinement of the patient to bed for several weeks on low diet, with the continued application of ice to the tumour; and if it contain much omentum, the administration of small doses of blue pill and tartar emetic, in order to promote absorption of the fat. This plan has proved successful in some cases. Suspending the patient with his head downwards may induce the hernial contents to return into the abdomen. But the contents of an old hernia, when returned into the abdomen, may be a source of so much irritation, that any attempt at reduction, and especially by a mechanical and. suddenly effective joroceeding, should always be well considered. Sometimes a hernia can be reduced, but cannot be kept up. This may be owing to long bands of adhesion to the interior of the sac, or partial adhesion to the neck; the protrusion returns when pressure is withdrawn; or, the sac having become partly inverted, the hernia descends again with the sac. The latter kind of reduction, observes Cloquet, is more likely to occur in femoral and direct inguinal herniie ; in obHque inguinal hernia, the connection of the sac to the spermatic .cord, or the round ligament of the uterus, may prevent its inversion. Inflamed Irreducible Hernia closely resembles strangulation, in its symptoms and treatment. If arising from any injury to the tumour, from a blow or other external violence, the peritonitis commencing in and spreading from the sac, may be subdued by rest and leeches, cold lotions, enemata and abstinence from food, with perhaps the adminis- tration of calomel and opium. In case of doubt, it will be safer to operate as for Strangulated Hernia. Strangulation may supervene in an old irreducible hernia. This arises either from an additional protrusion, beyond what the hernial