SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUKGERY, 52 out of twelve sections of the femur, two suppurated superficially ; while in ten primary union occurred. Many Surgeons have used my pattern of chisel without a drop of suppuration; and even in^ Mr. Bryant's wretched patient, the wounds healed primarily." (See Lancet of December 22nd, 1877.) In the case referred to, the patient was a " cachectic-lookmg boy, aged seventeen;" and disease of both hip-joints having advanced to destruction of the neck of either femur, Mr. Bryant resorted to my operation below the trochanters,—using, however, Volckmann's chisel. The incisions healed by primary union; but deep-seated suppuration ensued over the sacrum, followed by pyaemic infection, of which the ^°^Ankle-joint.—The operation of excision with regard to the ankle- ioint has been confusedly described in Surgical works as signifying the removal of any portion of the foot, whether pertaming to the aakle- ioint or not; in the operations originated by Listen, Wakley, and Teale. But by excision of the ankle-joint, I mean the removal of the articular surfaces of the bones wHch enter into the formation of this jomt— namely, the lower articular ends of the tibia and fibula, and the upper portion of the astragalus. . , -n- ^ j This operation, first performed for tnjurzj by Hippocrates, and re- vived by Hey, of Leeds, in 1766, was first performed for disease by Moreau, senior, in 1792; then by Moreau, ji^nior in 1796- next by Mulder, in 1810; and probably by Champion, m 1813. But the credit of introducing the operation into British Surgery is due to Mr. Man- cock, who excised the ankle-joint for disease in February, 1851. ihe operation has since been resorted to by Professor Humphry of Gam- bridge, in four cases, and by other Surgeons, including myself. The Conditions of Ankle-joint Disease apfropriate for Excision.—Dis- ease of the ankle-joint, according to Mr. Hancock, frequently com- mences in the synovial membrane, and extends to the articular sur- faces ; thus, secondarily, involving the bones. But it may also com- mence, as scrofulous disease, in the cancellous tissue of the long bones —tibia and fibula, or of the astragalus, or of all three bones. In the former condition, the affected portion of the articular surfaces may be removed with safety and advantage. In the latter condition, excision is not inappropriate. £ j.„ Other and different opinions are held by some Surgeons of repute, as by Mr. Furneaux Jordan, of Birmingham, both with regard to the origin of disease of the ankle-joint, and the propriety of excision._ Ibat disease rarely extends from the synovial membrane but begins m the cancellous tissue, either of the extremities of the tibia and fibula, or in that of the astragalus; and, it is said, necessarily affects ^^^ ^^f ^f that bone. In the one condition, excision of the extremities of the long bones, as the local source of the disease, is said to be inadmissible; while in the other condition, the whole bone-astragalus-must be excised The former contra-injunction is plainly at variance with the estab^hed practice of excision in disease of the knee-joint, under strictlv analogous circumstances-when the end of the femur, or head ofthftibt i? the seat of disease. Excision of the extremity of either or Uiese long bones is not inadmissible, but only, perhaps, less favour- able in scrofnlons disease of the cancellous tissue. The fair inferences from this diversity of opinion respecting tl.a