72 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. metacarpus,—a loss of length, and breadth which interrupts the pro- cess of consolidation, and results in a more narrow wrist and impaired strength of the hand. Moreover, that the bones being divided m situ, some portion of the disease may probably be left behind. To obviate these difficulties in performing the excision, and to, avoid the tendons requisite for the efficient use of the hand and fingers another method of operation has been proposed and practised by Pro- fessor Lister. It consists in two essential peculiarities :—the radial incision is so placed, on the dorsal aspect of the radius, as to avoid the tendons which are otherwise liable to be implicated—the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and the extensor secundi internodii; while the limited, but complete, excision of the bones is accomplished by first removing the carpus, and then the articular ends of the radius and ulna, and the bases of the five metacarpal bones. This procedure is confessedly complicated in its detail—" consisting of a series of opera- tions, each one of which must be executed with scrupulous care," and it demands accurate anatomical knowledge—an objection of no reason- able weight; the operation is also tedious to the Surgeon in its per- formance, and protracted for the endurance of the patient even under the influence of chloroform. These apparent objections, as to the nature of the operation itself and its performance, would, however, seem to be entirely overruled by its more successful results, as compared with the simple procedures already noticed. Third method, or Lister s Operation.—Chloroform having been admi- nistered, a tourniquet is placed upon the limb to prevent oozing of blood, which would interfere with the careful scrutiny to which the bones must be subjected. Any ad- hesions of the tendons are thoroughly broken down by freely moving all the articulations of the hand. The radial incision is then made. (Fig. 517.) It commences above at the middle of the dorsal aspect of the radius, on a level with the styloid process, this being as close to the angle where the tendons of the secundi internodii pollicis and indi- cator meet, as it is safe to go. At first, it is directed towards the inner side of the metacarpo - phalangeal articulation of the thumb, running parallel to the tendon of the ex- tensor secundi internodii; but, on reaching the line of the radial bor- der of the metacarpal bone of the forefinger, it is carried downwards longitudinally for half the length of that bone, thus avoiding the radial artery, which lies somewhat to the outer side. These directions will be * Diagram of parts concerned, and radial incision, in excision of the wrist—a, radial artery ; b, extensor secundii internodii pollicis; c, indicator ; d, extensor com- munis digitorum; e, extensor minimi digiti; f, extensor primi inttWn po hc^^^^ G, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis; h, extensor carpi radiahs longior; i, exteusor carpi radialis brevior; k. extensor carpi nlnaris; l, l, radial incision. (Lister.J