SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 288 Faidty perception of Colours.—Colour-blindness—acritochromacy—is an inability to discriminate between colours. Various other terms have been devised to designate this defect. It is generally an inability to perceive red, and the compound tints into which this colour enters. Blue is almost always appreciated ; and yellow, always. The cause of this defective perception is probably not in the eye itself, but in that portion of the brain to which the impressions of light are conveyed. It is a cerebral affection, but may be temporary. An important practical suggestion was made by Wilson, that persons employed on railways and elsewhere, who are required to observe coloured lights as signals, should be previously tested as to their power of perceiving colours with perfect accuracy. No treatment can be said to be curative or even palliative. Day-sight or Hemeralopia, and Night-sight or Nyctalopia, are terms used to designate intermittent blindness, conversely, by night and by day. Daiz-sight is perfect in broad daylight, but the power of vision declines after sunset and in twilight. This loss of function is caused apparently by exhaustion of the nervous power of the retina, from ex- posure to strong sunlight; the weaker stimulus of twilight or moon- light then being insufficient to produce the sensation of light. Hence this deficiency occurs commonly in tropical countries, and in persons who have just returned from long sea-voyages, especially from the East or West Indies. Rest of the over-stimulated retina would seem to be the most im- portant indication of treatment; coupled with tonics and good food, when toil and hardship have contributed to the exhaustion. Night-sigh.t, or inability to see by daylight, is not probably a special affection, independently of any inflammatory or other disease of the eye which may be attended with intolerance of light. Scrofulous ophthalmia is thus nyctalopic. Diseases of the Eyeball, or of its Motor Apparatus.—(1.) Protnt- sion of the Eyeball.—An unnatural prominence of the eyeball may be unconnected with any disease of the organ. The eyes have a pecuhar i and painfully staring expression, as if they were too large for the sockets. :! The lids can be shut, the eyes moved freely in all directions, and sight \ is unaffected. Both eyes are equally prominent. These peculiarities -a distinguish this condition from the projection caused by any orbital j tumour. It exists or occurs mostly in women of feeble or hysterical constitu- :| tion, and would seem to be due to an atonic state of the recti muscles; ^ but the free movement of the eye is incompatible with this explanation i of the protrusion. The administration of tonics and the application of -j electricity to the sympathetic nerve in the neck have occasionally been i attended with benefit. 1 (2.) Bislocation of the Eyehall—ivova. its socket—can scarcely take < place without rupture of the optic nerve, allowing the eye to be thrust il out upon the cheek. Lodgment of the upper eyelid backwards, behind :J the greatest convexity of the globe, has occasionally happened. (3.) Tumours within the Eyeball, or Or&i^.—Various kinds of tumour <i are liable to form in this, as in other parts. Cancer is, perhaps, the most c frequent; hydatids, or exostosis, are occasional forms of growth; and n Glioma, or perhaps Myxoma, may also be met with. The diagnosis of an intva.-orbital growth will be difficult, and perhaps \i