502 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. CHAPTER LVII. SPECIAL HERNIA. Inguinal Hernia.—S/frwchtraZ Conditions.—Inguinal liernia is that m which the visceral protrusion occupies part or the whole of the in- guinal canal, presenting an incomplete hernia or bubonocele; or, passing through the external abdominal ring, it becomes a complete or scrotal hernia, sometimes named oscheocele. In the female, it passes into the labium. The hernia occurs in two principal varieties, as to its direction and relation to the deep (internal) epigastric artery; and which are designated, accordingly, the oblique or external inguinal hernia, and the direct or internal inguinal hernia. Thus, in point of direction, the hernia may take place through the internal abdominal ring and follow the oblique course of the spermatic cord in the inguinal canal, thence perhaps passing through the external ring and into the scrotum ; or, the protrusion may come directly through the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, into the canal, just behind the external abdominal ring, thence perhaps passing through that ring into the scrotum. With relation to the epigastric artery; in the oblique variety, the mouth of the sac is external; in the direct variety, it is internal to that vessel. Oblique inguinal hernia is named co7i- genital, when the visceral protrusion lies within the tunica vaginalis, as its sac, in contact with the testicle; and infantile hernia, when the protrusion, carrying before it a peritoneal sac, lies just behind and dips into the tunica vaginalis as an independent sac—constituting what is also termed encysted hernia. There are, then, three varieties of inguinal hernia: oblique or external; direct or internal; congenital, and its sub-variety, infantile or encysted. Oblique Inguinal Hernia.—Course.—This is the most common form of inguinal hernia. Its course is the same as that of the testicle in its passage from the internal abdominal ring through the inguinal canal and external ring into the scrotum ; this route corresponding also to the spermatic cord in the same extent of its course. Anatomical Coverings, and Relations.—The coverings of oblique in- guinal hernia consist of those layers of diiferent textures which succes- sively invest the protrusion, in its formation and progress. They are the same investments that the spermatic cord receives,—seven in number, and they may be conveniently enumerated from within, out- wards, in the order of hernial development, as follow : peritoneal pouch forming the sac of the hernia, its sub-serous cellular tissue, and the fascia transversalis abdominis or infundibuliform fascia (Fig. 783) ; cre- masteric fascia, consisting of looped fibres of cremaster muscle pro- ceeding from the internal oblique, with interstitial cellular texture; intercolumnar or spermatic fascia, consisting of tendinous semicircular fibres passing across between the pillars of the external abdominal ring, and thence prolonged downwards from the upper margin of the ring; superficial fascia, containing fat; and skin. These anatomical coverings are interesting with reference to the development of oblique