SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 131 in the same group; together with another affection, herpes, which is marked by a vesicle intermediate in bulk between that of miliaria and pemphigus. Herpes is essentially a crop of vesicles developed on an erythematous base ; but it possesses two additional features which render its separate consideration necessary. For example, unlike pemphigus and miliaria, it has a definite course ; and secondly, it is associated with more decided neurotic phenomena, sometimes running on to neuralgia of a very painful character. This undisguised neurotic dependency of herpes has suggested its consideration as a neurosi'- and as such it has been associated with urticaria—an erythematou neurosis. And it may be as well to mention that in a case of puro prurigo we have seen developed concurrently, at the height of its exacerbation, the tubercles of urticaria and the bullae of pemphigus. Moreover, so close is the alliance between herpes and neurosis thf; its forms admit of being designated by the names of the nerv^e.-, whose territories the eruption invades; for example, herpes zoster is termed H. intercostalis, and in like manner we have herpes cervicalis, cervico-humeralis, lumbo-cruralis, frontalis, maxillaris, occipitalis, and so on ; while certain minor herpetes are named from their locality, although equally due to neurotic origin, e.g., herpes labialis and herpes preputialis. The commonest of all the affections of the skin is an inflammation of its entire structure, which evinces itself not merely by redness, heat, swelling, and pain, but by modifications of the typical symptoms due to the special nature of the organ itself; for example, redness, papulation, vesiculation, exudation, and desquamation, with certain secondary and consequent phenomena, such as suppuration, incrusta- tion, thickening, and condensation. Such, indeed, is eczema. If the redness were to remain stationary at the hypersemic stage, the rash would very properly be named erythema; but if it proceeded a step beyond, it is then an eczema, which may be distinguished by the super- added title of erythematostim. Eczema not unfrequently occurs as :i sudden exanthema of the entire skin, and may then subside with simple exfoliation of the cuticle, like any other form of rash. If, however, the cause persist, the follicles may become congested and raised above the surrounding level in the shape of papulae; this is E. paprdosur,^. When the turgid vessels relieve themselves by effusion beneath the epidermis in vesicular papules in lieu of solid papules, the case is one of Tj. vesiculosum; or the exudation may be so excessive that the cuticle is lifted up from the cutis in a stratum of considerable extent, and the secretion, one while simply a plastic serum, and another while purulent, becomes converted into a profuse defluxion (E. iclwrosnm). perhaps soaking through all the coverings which surround it {E. mach- dans). In a moderately severe case of eczema, the whole of these forms will be present together : in the focus of the disease, there may be an aqueous and puriform exudation; farther outwards, vesicles serous and pustular, intermingled with papules rising from an erythematous has. : while in the circumference the erythematous congestion will be found alone. At a later period of the disease, when the skin is returning io a healthy state, the secretions dry up into the form of crusts of divers thickness, colour, and texture; the swelling subsides ; but for a lonir time an epidermic desquamation of small dry, horny scales continues, before the skin regains its normal condition.