865 OVABIOTOMY, Fig. 969. pelvic cavity, or tbo uterus he drawn upwards forcibly towards tlie surface. Tlie whipcord ligature seems to answer best, and it sbould be applied by transfixing the pedicle with a naevus-needle ai-med with the double ligature, and tying each portion securely. Care must be taken not to transfix any large artery or vein, the latter vessels parti- cularly being large-sized and thin-walled. The pedicle is now to bo divided, at a sufficient distance from the ligature, or beyond the clamp externally, to prevent any risk of its slipping through, and thence of subsequent haemorrhage. The ovarian tumour is thus detached. Drainage.—If irritating fluid has escaped into the peritoneal cavity, or suppuration exist, drainage may be useful. The best way is to insert one of Keith's glass tubes (Fig. 969); one end is passed into the bottom of Douglas's pouch, whilst about two inches is left projecting from the wound. It is secured there be- tween the lower sutures. Over the open end of the tube a sponge is laid, surrounded by a bit of sheet india-rubber, to catch any fluid oozing up; and, daily, any collection in the pelvis may be pumped up by a syringe. But says Keith, " Since using the antiseptic method I drain almost never." Gloswre of the wound concludes the operation. If the pedicle is ligatured, it is dropped back into the abdomen; if clamped, the clamp of course protrudes externally. Closure may be accomplished either with hare-lip pins and twisted suture, by interrupted silk sutures, or by wire sutures; and these are passed through the entire abdominal wall, including the peritoneum. They should be placed an inch from the edge of the incision, on either side, so as to have a firm grasp ; and not more than three-quarters of an inch apart. The clamp is then to be padded with lint. The antiseptic dressing is then applied, supported by broad straps of plaster, and over all a four-tailed flannel binder. A warmed bed should be at hand for the reception of the patient, and any slight stimulant administered which occasion may require. After-treatment is very important, and it comprises chiefly the following general directions. They have reference spe- cially to the three sources of danger after ovariotomy: peri- tonitis, exhaustion, secondary haemorrhage. To avoid any tendency to vomiting after the operation, nothing should be taken by the mouth during the first twelve hours, but a little ice, and no opium or other medicine. Milk or beef-tea should form the nourishment for several days ; with wine or brandy as stimulants, and opium, according to the constitutional state of the patient. The nourishment may be adminis- tered by enemata, if the stomach continue irritable. No action of the bowels must be allowed, if possible, for a week, the influence of opium having the advantage also of checking intestinal action; and the urine should be drawn ofE by a catheter two or three times a day. Peritonitis must be treated on ordinary principles, as in connection with strangu- lated hernia. The management of the wou?id is simple. The portion of pedicle left external to the clamp may be cut off on the day follow- ing the operation, as there will then be no risk of sHpping, and it is very desirable to avoid any source of decomposing matter. The clamp Itself may be removed on the third or fourth day. The sutures should VOL. ir. q ^