720 SPECIAL PATnOLOGY AND SURGEHY. soon reacli tteir raaximum of intensity, and subside in from six to twelve hours. Bicarbonate of potash and full doses of hyoscyamus should be given every half-hour for three or four hours, and perfect rest enjoined. If a blister has been the cause, it must be removed at once, and the surface thoroughly sponged free of every particle of cantharides. Chronic cystitis.—This form of the disease presents two varieties : inflammation of the vesical mucous membrane, with very slightly in- creased secretion, or with an abundant secretion of muco-purulent matter. The one condition is dmple chronic cystitis; the other is known as catarrh of the bladder, or cystorrhoea. In both varieties, especially the catarrhal, the mucous membrane has become thickened, velvety, and of a dark colour ; the vessels being injected or congested, and the muscular coat somewhat hypertrophied. Symptoms.—The same symptoms are exhibited in both states of chronic inflammation; and modified only in degree from those of acute inflammation. But chronic catarrh of the bladder is distinguished by the discharge of tliick, tenacious, greyish muco-purulent matter in the urine, in greater or less abundance, and which gradually subsides to the bottom of the vessel in which it is collected. Under the urine, it appears as a semi-transparent, whitish, tenacious jelly, something like parboiled white of egg ; and on pouring oif the urine, it hangs slightly adherent to the vessel, and then slides down suddenly in a lump; or it can be poured from the vessel in long coils, resembling macaroni. This mucous deposit may be tinged with blood, or present white streaks of phosphate of lime. The urine itself becomes brownish, ammoniacal, and foetid. A typhoid febrile condition accompanies this advanced state of the disease ; the pulse becoming extremely rapid and feeble, the tongue dry and brown, with great prostration and cerebral oppression. Causes.—Acute cystitis may subside into the chronic or persistent form of inflammation. But chronic cystitis often arises independently, from any cause of long-continued irritation of the bladder;—from calculi and other foreign bodies, or tumours in the bladder; or from the retention and decomposition of urine ; as in stricture of the urethra, or enlargement of the prostate, or in spinal paralysis.^ The latter disease is not only a cause of retention—it also induces an inflam- matory state of the vesical mucous membrane by impaired innervation. Treatment.—The same plan of treatment is appropriate as in acute cystitis, only modified in degree. It comprises derivation from the bladder, correction of an irritant state of the urine, and the influence of opium to allay pain and vesical irritability. Counter-irritation may be employed by means of a mustard poultice or iodine-paint, applied to the supra-pubic region; or a blistering liquid of cantharidine in chloroform, to the perineum, when the neck of the bladder, more par- ticularly, is affected. I rarely have recourse to any such derivative treatment. But the abundant discharge of mucus or muco-purulent matter and the alkaline state of the urine, which especially characterizo chronic catarrhal inflammation of the bladder, render certain special treatment necessary; to arrest the secretion from the mucous mem- brane and'to correct the state of the urine. Pareira brava, a concen- trated decoction, uva ursi, or the infusion of buchu, given with the mineral acids, are more or less efficacious; I much prefer the con-