THE LARYNGOSCOPE. 371 to fits of suffocative coughing, or, if the growth is situated on the free borders of the vocal cords, it may assume a valve-like action, blocking Tip the rima glottidis at every expiration. The most certain method of determining the presence of a tumour in the larynx, and its exact position and attachment, is by examination with the laryngoscope. Not only can the seat of the growth be determined by this procedure, i but its nature can also be ascertained. If this apparatus be not at hand, digital examination, through the mouth, may in some cases—■ especially children—enable the Surgeon to determine the density and • seat of attachment of the growth ; or, if the growth be situated on the epiglottis or at the superior opening of the larynx, it may perhaps be seen by pressing the larynx upwards and drawing the tongue well for- . wards, thereby bringing the epiglottis into view. The Laetngoscope.—This is an instrument devised for the purpose of obtaining a view of the interior of the larynx during life. The > history of the laryngoscope dates back indirectly to M. Levret, a dis- : tinguished French accoucheur, who, in 1743, invented a laryngeal - speculum or mirror. Subsequently, other names are more or less asso- ciated with this invention; Bozzini in 1804, and Senn in 1827; while i Dr. Benjamin Guy Babington, in 1829, brought out the first laryngo- j scope, or glottiscope, as he named it—a laryngeal mirror combined 1 with another mirror, held in the operator's hand, as the means of illu- T mination. Bennati, in 1832, asserted his ability to see the vocal cords ■> with an instrument devised by Selligue, a mechanic, whose contrivance \ was " a double-tubed speculum, of which one tube served to carry the ' light to the glottis, and the other to bring back to the eye the image of the glottis reflected in the mirror, placed at the guttural end of the ■ instrument." Baumes in 1838, Listen in 1840, and Dr. Warden in 1 1844, were each successively associated with the art of laryngoscopy ; ;i and in 1844 the late Mr. Avery devised a laryngoscope whereby arti- ficial light was made the source of illumination. In 1854 M. Manual ' Garcia conceived the idea of employing mirrors for studying the ; interior of the larynx during singing, by autoscopic examination. I In 1857 Dr. Tiirck, of Yienna, endeavoured to employ Grarcia's laryn- c geal mirror, with the aid of sunlight, in the wards of the General i Hospital; and later in the same year, Czermak made use of artificial ' light, added the large ophthalmoscopic mirror for focusing the light, "! and, by his personal demonstration, brought the instrument into use ! in practical medicine.* The laryngoscope consists of two parts: (1) a small mirror fixed to ' a long slender shank, which is introduced to the back of the throat; and (2) an apparatus for throwing a strong light, solar or artificial, on to the small mirror. For thus projecting the luminous rays, most laryngoscopists employ a second, larger mirror, which reflects the light from a lamp or the solar rays. When artificial light is employed, this illuminating mirror is slightly concave ; when sunlight is used, its sur- • face is plane. The only principle concerned in the art of laryngoscopy is the optical law that, when rays of light fall on a plane surface, the angle of reflection is equal to the angle of incidence. * For further details, see "The Laryngoscope," by Morell Mackenzie, M.D. iru edition. Longmans,