SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 330 The alveolyis_ becomes absorbed during the cicatrization which ensues, but if it is severely injured in extraction, or if it has been ren- dered unhealthy by prolonged inflammation, the healing process may be retarded by repeated exfoliation of small fragments from its edges. To secure the best results, a large assortment of forceps is indis- pensable—not less certainly than fourteen or fifteen pairs—and many more are often advantageously employed, so that the instrument may exactly fit the tooth for which it is intended. _ The blades of forceps must be very nicely tempered, so as not to be brittle, and yet to retain their edge, must come to a very thin, almost sharp edge, so as to readily pass between the tooth and the gum, and when grasping a tooth should exactly fit to its neck, so as to be in con- tact at every point. The tooth should be very lightly grasped by the forceps, which are then firmly thrust up or down, as the case may be, so that the thin edges of their blades pass between the gum and the tooth, right down to and even a little within the edge of the alveolus. Then the grasp of the hand upon the handles is tightened, so that the blades may grip the neck of the tooth, which is then removed by that direction of movement most appropriate to the particular tooth. Well-fitting forceps, when properly applied, should so grasp the tooth as not to admit of the slightest slip or motion between the two ; they, in fact, should be tantamount to a simple elongation of the tooth, by means of which we can grasp it and exert a suSicient leverage to move it without calling for extreme effort. Unless the crown of the tooth be of considerable strength, the handles of the forceps must not be gripped too tightly, lest, with the leverage gained by the shortness of the jaws as compared with the handles, the tooth be crushed. The handles should be kept in some degrees separated by the fleshy part of the thumb. The upper incisors and canines have roots approaching to regular cones, and may be most easily detached from their sockets by the use of slight rotation. No such rotation can be employed in the case of lower incisors and canines, which have roots flattened from side to side, and these must be removed by the alternation of inward and outward movements. The outer alveolar plate being far more yielding than the inner, most teeth are removed by an outward motion, preceded by a slight inward motion, continued only till the tooth is found to yield slightly. But in the position of the lower wisdom tooth (and to some extent of the second lower molar), the inner alveolar plate is weaker than the outer, and therefore traction should be made chiefly towards it. In every case the opei^ator should carefully bear in mind the direction and form of the roots of the tooth he is extracting, and should be prepared BO to vary the movement of his hand as to follow the line of least resistance as he discovers it, and so to meet the difiiculties interposed by any abnormal form of root. And if one side of the tooth be much more weakened by decay than the other, traction should, cctteris paribus, be made towards, rather than from, the weak side. When a tooth is decayed quite down to or below the level of the gum, stump-forceps must be employed. These diifer from others in the thinness and sharpness of their blades, adapting them to pass well within the margin of the alveolus. If the tooth have more than one root, one only should be attempted at a time ; it is a safe and frequent