158 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. mater alone covers tlie cerebral hemisphere. The patient lived forty- five years after the injury. The question of operative interference turns principally on the presence, or absence, of Compression-symptoms ; and partly on the pre- sence, or absence, of Compound fracture—a wound leading to the seat of fracture. The rules of treatment are, for the most part, thus expressed by Mr. Hewett; and which are in accordance with the soundest judgment, as well as the largest experience :— Linear fracture or fissure, unaccompanied by brain-symptoms, even although compound, should not be interfered with; the wound must be treated according to circumstances, and the case carefully watched for some time. Oomminuted fracture, even with depression of the fragments, but unaccompanied with symptoms and a wound, should not be interfered with. It is now an established rule in our Metropolitan Hospitals, that Simple fractures, with depression but without symptoms, are to be left alone. The depression may be so marked as to be easily detected; but so long as there are no symptoms, all operative interference, of whatsoever kind, should carefully be avoided. Compound fracture, with depression, although unattended witli symptoms, justifies recourse to operation, and without delay. This rule was inculcated by Sir A. Cooper and Sir B. Brodie, to prevent intra-cranial suppuration consequent on this condition of fracture. The former authority observes : " The elevation of the bone is never followed by any mischief ; but if you do not raise it, and inflammation follows, it will then be too late to attempt to save the life of the patient." On the other hand, the presence of symptoms in this condi- tion of fracture is the only warrant for operative interference, in the experience of Sir Philip Crampton. "In Dublin," he remarks, "we conform generally to the rule originally laid down by Dease, who preceded Desault by many years; that in fracture of the skull with depressed bone, whether complicated by wound of the scalp or otherwise, no attempt should be made to raise the depressed bone, unless very decided symptoms be present of compressed or irritated brain." Punctured fracture—sharp splinters of the inner table being driven in, albeit without symptoms—most imperatively demands operative interference. But certain exceptional conditions of ordinary compound fracture may be noticed. A slight depression, especially when it corresponds to the thicker part of the injured bone, does not require an immediate operation. A deep driving-in of the bone over the frontal sinuses is another exception ; always remembering that these sinuses do not begin to form until several years after birth. A compound fracture with depression, but without symptoms of inflammation, some days after the accident, should not be submitted to operation; and the less so, if the depression is broad, and the fracture comminuted. Such a condition may proceed to recovery without any intra-cranial inflammation. So far, then, respecting fractures of the skull without brain-symptoms, in regard to their rules of treatment. Depressed fractures, accompanied with primary brain-symptoms, may be thus represented -.—Simple fracture, with the symptoms not