185 "WOUNDS OF THE EYE. The treatment of tlie wound is simple. The lips of integument must be accurately adjusted, and retained by two or three points of fine suture, as the extent of incision may require. Water-dressing and rest will then probably prevent inflammation, and promote union. (2.) The eije itself is also liable to the lesions of other soft parts ; but, being lodged within the cavity of the orbit, it more frequently escapes injury. _ . • • 7 Wounds are, however, met with occasionally. An mcised wound or clean linear cut may be caused by a piece of glass or the edge of some cutting instrument. Both these occasions of incision I have seen. In the latter case, the end of a sharp chisel suddenly broke off and flew into the eye of a man who was using the instrument, dividing the cornea and lodging deeply in the globe of the eye. It was withdrawn by Mr. Murphy, senior house surgeon at the Hospital. The fragment measured five-eighths of an inch in length, three-eighths in breadth; and it weighed thirty-nine grains. Subsequently I extirpated the eyeball on account of cerebral symptoms, and threatened sympathetic affec- tion of the other eye. The patient made an excellent recovery, and that eye remained unaffected. In another case also of similar acci- dent, I removed the injured eyeball, and with an equally good result. Prolapsus of the iris may arise from an incised wound of the cornea; the aqueous humour escaping, and the iris protruding through the wound. Penetrating wounds of the eye are of a lacerative character, being produced, in most cases, by some blunt-pointed instrument, which, not unfrequently passing beyond the eye or to one side of it, may enter the orbit also, and the brain ; fracture and wound of the brain thus most seriously complicating the injury, or proving fatal. Such wounds have been occasioned by a fork or steel pen, by a thrust with the point of an umbrella, or a spine of wood abutting from a tree and meeting the eye of a person who was running through a wood. An explosion of gun- powder may throw grains of powder in the eye, or grit by the force of explosion; or a stray shot from a gun may enter the eye. Both the eyes of Mr. Pawcett, M.P., were accidentally destroyed by a shot which centrally penetrated the cornea of either eye. In the diabolical out- rage at Clerkenwell by the firing of a barrel of petroleum and gun- powder, both eyes of a little boy—one of the victims under my care at the Royal Free Hospital—were destroyed, and his mother lost her left eye entirely in Like manner. The consequences of any penetrating wound are almost always for- midable, unless the instrument have been clean and sharp, and have only divided the cornea, or penetrated through the sclerotic coat into the vitreous humour, without damaging the lens. In general, especially if the lens be injured, the eye is lost from the violent inflammation, often terminating in suppuration or atrophy, that follows the blow; and even where the immediate effects are less serious, the adhesions that are apt to form between the iris and the cornea or lens, constituting anterior and posterior synecMce, occasion great impairment of vision, or may lead to sympathetic ophthalmia of the opposite eye. A penetrating fracture of the orbit and wound of the brain have obviously most serious conse- quences. In one case recorded by Nekton, a singular result followed. The cavernous sinus and internal carotid artery on the opposite side were wounded by the thrust of an umbrella into the orbit; an arterio-