PROLAPSUS OF THE RECTUM. 579 Fig. 841. The galvano-cautenj may be mentioned, as another method of using the actual cautery, but it seems to offer little advantage. The ecraseur has been used for the removal of internal piles ; a practice in vogue with some French Surgeons, especially Chassaignac; but which has not yet found much favour with Surgeons in this country. Although a painful proceeding, the freedom from hgemor- rhage might recommend it; but the probable occurrence of stricture of the rectum after cicatrization, is a very grave objection to this mode of operation. Prolapsus of the Rectum.—Structural Conditions.—In connection with internal hemorrhoids, prolapsus of the rectum is an almost necessary ac- companiment. The latter may, how- ever, occur alone, and this protrusion through the anal orifice is sometimes called prolapsus ani; an incorrect desig- nation, seeing that the anus, as merely the terminal aperture of the rectum, cannot itself be protruded. Prolapsus recti is met with in two forms. Usually, the mucous coat alone descends, owing to its loose connection with the muscular coat; and the pro- lapsus then consists of an everted dupli- cature of mucous membrane. Occasion- ally, the mtiscular coat also descends with this membrane. The possibility of this complete prolapsus of the rectum was formerly doubted by Copeland and other authorities, but the question is now set at rest by the existence of such a specimen in the Museum of King's College. (Fig. 841.) Signs.—The signs or appearances of prolapsus recti are very obvious; the protruded part has the ordinary vascular-red colour of mucous membrane, and is wet with mucus; the surface may be thrown into transverse rings or folds around the protrusion. Its shape varies, and apparently according to the extent of the part. Com- mencing usually in the form of one or two lateral folds of mucous membrane on either side of the anus, the protrusion soon becomes an unbroken ring, encircling the anus; as it enlarges, it acquires a cyhndrical shape, tapering somewhat towards its free end, and there presents an orifice at the reflection of the membrane upwards which leads mto the bowel. This is now the anal orifice of the rectum The extent of protrusion varies considerably; in children reaching per- haps, to SIX or eight inches; in adults being more limited, and having more of a globular than a cylindrical form. In old persons, the pro- lapsus frequently attains a large size, owing to the laxity of the sphmcter. At either extreme of life,—infancy or old age,—complete prolapsus of the rectum, involving the whole thickness of the snt is more liable to occur. ° ' The two forms of prolapsus may be readily distinguished; in the descent of mucous membrane alone, the protruded portion is continuous whnl T^^'*"? sphincter; whereas, with invagination of the whole thickness of the gut there will be a distinct and deep sulcus between the protrusion and the margin of the sphincter.