816 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the sac to that of a common hydrocele. Then, in this state, tapping, or with injection as the radical cure, may be practised. In cases where the testicle has not descended, the treatment by obliteration of the vaginal process of peritoneum, and injection, will obviously be in- applicable. Encysted Hydrocele.—This form of hydrocele consists in the produc- tion of a cyst or cysts, containing a thin watery fluid; and projecting frorn some part of the testis (Fig. 945) or epididymis (Fig. 946). It differs from common hydrocele in its relation to the testicle; being Fig. 945.* Fig. 946 f Fig. 947.J situated above or below, or to one side of, this organ, instead of enve- loping it. Sometimes, however, the cyst projects into the sac of the tunica vaginalis, distending it as if the fluid were contained in its cavity. Two very rare formations of encysted hydrocele are worthy of notice, as relating to the testis ; one, in which a cyst forms between the tunica vaginalis and the tunica albuginea; and the other, in which a cyst is produced within the wall of the tunica albuginea itself, distending it into a cavity enclosing the cyst. (Fig. 947.) The signs of encysted hydrocele are, as in ordinary hydrocele, a swelling, fluctuating and transparent, but having the above-men- tioned different relations to the testis; and as the cyst increases, the testicle is borne upon its wall, thus further altering the rela- tive position of the organ. The fluid con- tained in the cyst is of a thin watery cha- racter, instead of being a yellow serous fluid; and it is remarkable for abound- ing in spermatozoa—a peculiarity discovered by Liston. In both * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., E. 69. Encysted hydrocele of large size. t London Hosp. Mus., E. /. 116. Encysted hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. The cyst springs from the upper part of the epididymis. X ibid.. E. /. 101. Encysted hydrocele of the tunica albuginea of testis. Tlie cyst is the size of a hen's egg, and its walls are from one-eighth to one-quarter of an inch in thickness, alveolar and sacculated from the exudation of plastic matter. ^J. Hutchinson. See also " Trans. Path. Soe.")