793 URINARY FISTULiE. any passage of urine along tlieir course must be prevented, by regularly using the catheter three or four times a day. The patient may be instructed how to do this for himself, at every call of nature. Respecting the eligibility of these modes of treatment; in long, narrow, and tortuous fistulas, stimulation and compression seem to be the most appropriate; when the fistulse are large and numerous, incision is more suitable, the perineum and scrotum being sometimes quite riddled in all directions. Larger-sized urethral openings, in consequence of actual destruction of some portion of the wall of the canal, require operative interference of a plastic character, to repair the loss of substance. Uretliro-plastic operations are designed to eifect reparation in one of two ways : either by simple closure of the fistulous aperture, or by borrowing the surrounding integument to accomplish this object. These procedures are severally applicable according to the part of the canal where the opening exists. Perineal fistula may admit of closure by simply paring the edges down to the urethra, and uniting them with quilled sutures, or by Bozeman's buttons. Ante-scrotal or penile fistula is much more difficult to close, owing to the want of substance in the coverings of the urethra at this part of its extent, and the liability of the part to disturbance by erection of the organ or other motion. . When the opening is small, Dieffenbach's mode of closing it may be adopted. It consists in first stimulating the edges, by frequently touching the surrounding skin with the strong tincture of cantharides the day before the operation, and then using the "lace suture." A sound is introduced into the urethra beyond the opening; the operator takes a small curved needle, sharp at the point but not at its Fig. 936. sides, armed with a stout waxed silk thread, and- by means of a needle-holder introduces it beneath the skin at about three lines from the border of the fis- tula. The needle is carried deeply, but not into the urethra, and made to emerge at another point; then dipped again, and so on by three or four stitches, carried round the opening, until it emerges at the point of entrance.' The thread, thus imbedded in the cellular texture around the fistula, is drawn by its two ends together, so as to close the opening, and then fastened by a knot. In three or four days the ligature may be divided, and drawn away. A larger- sized aperture will probably require some substitution of the surrounding skin, and this may be accom- pHshed by Nelaton's operation, as follows:—The edges of the fistula having been pared, the skin around to the extent of about one inch must be dis- sected by passing a small narrow-bladed knife sub- cutaneously around the aperture (Pig. 936); thus forming a detached area of integument, which is brought together over the opening, and the edges united by a few points of fine suture. This procedure may sometimes be advantage- ously modified by making lateral incisions, and then passing across underneath the flap a slip of india-rubber, to prcveut contact of the"