650 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. that tissue everywhere abounding with lactic acid. Mal-excretion through the skin is another alleged cause; the sweat, it is said, con- taining lactic acid. Hence the imputed pathological origin of rheu- matism. Defective respiration is also an apparent cause; lactic acid bj oxidation being readily converted into carbonic acid. Taking these facts and opinions into consideration, the indications of treatment are: to correct any error of diet, to moderate bodily exertion, to maintain or increase the functions of the skin by warm clothing; and to render tbe respiration more active, by daily exercise, v?hen the excess of lactic acid arises apparently from an opposite con- dition, in this respect. Preventive Treatment, as usual, consists in the anticipatory ob- servance of the curative indications. Chlorides—Treatment.—Introduced into the system by most articles of food—in the course of primary assimilation, and disengaged from the tissues, by destructive metamorpbosis in secondary assimilation, an excess of clorides in the blood and urine proceeds either from the food, or increased transformation of the textures. Vegetable food in general contains a much larger relative amount of the chlorides—of sodium and potassium—than animal food; and the component pro- portion of these salts in the various tissues of the body, is also different and variable. Exercise of body and mind, affecting chiefly the muscular and nervous systems, increases the chlorides in the urine. The remedial indications are obvious : an increased proportion of animal food, and rest. Preventive Treatment is analogous, but anticipatory. Sugar in Urine—Treatment.—This abnormal constituent of the urine may proceed, perhaps, from various sources—mal-assimilation, primary or secondary; but chiefly from imperfect oxidation and destruction of the sugar-glucose produced in the liver, itself trans- formed glucogen, also produced in that organ. This, which is Ber- nard's theory, founded on experimental observations, is disputed by Dr. Pavy, whose observations led him to regard the transformation of glucogen (" hepatine ") principally as a post-mortem change ; but this again is denied by Dr. Harley, whose investigations may, therefore, be regarded as indirectly supporting the views of Bernard. The imperfect oxidation of sugar is not apparently connected with deficient respiration. Besides this natural origin of diabetes mellitus, there is also the accidental origin from injury to the medulla oblongata, and the floor of the fourth ventricle, and to the sympathetic system of nerves. Bearing in mind the pathological origin of this disease, the in- dications of. treatment relate to diet rather than medicine. No known medicinal measures have hitherto proved essentially efficacious ; but the disease can be controlled, and for an unlimited period, by an appropriate diet. The rule to be observed is—a scrupulous avoidance of every kind of food containing sugar, or which can be converted into sugar. Rigorous abstinence is not equally imperative in every case, yet the indication is the same. Animal food, therefore—including fish of all kinds, and eggs—is quite unobjectionable ; while of vegetable food, the choice is restricted to greens, bran bread or cake, and such articles as do not belong to