OPERATION OF JOINT-EXCISION. 9 by the liypodcrmic injection of morphia, in one-sixth of a grain doses, wliile life is supported by nutritive enemata. Painful jerkimjs of the limb, especially in young hysterical subjects, or in consequence of the attrition of the osseous surfaces, is another untoward event, which may be subdued in like manner. Acute inflammatory fever may arise, almost immediately after excision, especially in young subjects; but this sub- sides or yields to ordinary treatment. Pycemia I have never yet known to occur after joint-excision. Severe rigors and acceleration of pulse I have seen arise from attrition of the ends of bone, and in con- sequence of readjusting the splints, a month after excision of the knee- joint. But this paroxysm usually passes off. Tetanus has ensued in only one of my cases—-a knee-joint excision in a young girl of sixteen, and with a fatal result; one of three deaths only I have yet had after any joint-excision. Exhaustion, in consequence of prolonged suppura- tive discharge, is apt to ensue in scrofulous patients; and this com- plication will probably lead to re-excision, or amputation instead, or afer the former resource has failed. Such cases of secondary amputa- tion are often remarkably successful in saving life, albeit the limb is sacrificed. Repair after Excision.—Joint-Excision may not be followed by any process of reparation, the ends of bone remaining ununited, as in un- united fracture. Reparation takes place more commonly, however; and the process consists in the production of a substitute-tissue between the ends of bone, forming an intermediate union; which may be either fibrous and flexible—as a ligamentous connection, or an osseous and immovable union. Ligamentous union is accompanied with an adapta- tion of the ends of bone to each other, forming a new joint; as after successful excision of the elbow, an instance of which will be described subsequently, from a case recorded by Mr. Syme. Osseous union would appear to result from a transformation of the fibrons tissue by a species ' of ossification ; but associated with the production of true cartilage, in the form of nodules, which, as centres of development, also undergo ossi- fication. How far the union may become, properly speaking, osseous, attaining to the minute structure of true bone, observations are wanting to determine. Any remaining portion of the original articular • cartilage, after a partial excision, is not continuous with, but quite ■ distinct from, the newly produced ossifying cartilage ; and the former undergoes fatty and fibrous degeneration, thus losing its cartilaginous : appearance. The muscular attachments, which had been severed by ' the osseous excision, probably regain new connections around the united I ends of bone; the tendon of the quadriceps extensor muscle, for in- ■ stance, acquires an insertion into the head of the tibia ^ while the soft ' parts around the joint become more or less thickened and indurated. Thus, then, the union is fortified, and the limb adapted to resume its functional use. This description of the process of osseous union accords with what ■ was found to have taken place after excision of the knee-joint,, in one of 1 my cases, which was, however, subjected to amputation in St. George's Hospital, ten months after the operation on the joint. The result : 18 described as " repair after excision," in the Catalogue of the Hos- ! pital Museum; and also, in the "Path. Soc. Trans.," vol.. xii. But the opportunities for such examination are necessarily few ; in most cases, amputation of the limb is resorted to only when no appreciable repara-