FRACTURES OF THE VAULT OF THE SKULL. 157 Wlien extravasation does not occur,—when the patient does not lapse ac^ain into a state of insensibility,—witli reaction from con- cussionj^ongestion of the cerebral vessels often remains ; and thence the liability to intra-cranial inflammation. The same precautionary measures must stiU be directed towards keeping the circulation in check. Cold to the shaved head, depletory purgation, with a mode- rated diet, and perfect rest, may prevent the development of inflam- mation. On the accession of the first symptoms—headache, sleepless- ness and feverish excitement—then, again, blood-letting will become a iustifiable resource; the Surgeon still watching its permanent effect, not so much on the pulse, as in relation to the brain-symptoms. Topical bleeding may suffice, by leeches to the temples, or cupping on the back of the neck; or venesection, by small and repeated bleedings, rather than one large loss of blood. A depletory and sedative action on the circulation may be maintained by antimonial salines; whde the old- fashioned pill of calomel and opium will certainly prove beneficial, when its influence is carried to slight salivation. Subsequently, a continued derivation from the head should be secured by blistering, dressed with savine ointment; while tonic and supporting measures are gradually adopted, to renovate the general health. Such is the course of treatment, with reference to brain-symptoms, as incidental to fractures of the skull; as arising from other and various causes, the general pathology and treatment of these cerebral affections vnll be fully considered under the titles Concussion, Com- pression, and Traumatic Inflammation of tlie Brain and its Membranes. Bepair.—Fracture of the vault of the skull may undergo repair, either by ossific union, or by the formation of a membrane which becomes the seat of ossification,—thus closing in a large aperture. Both these modes of reparation are well illustrated by two remarkable Fig. 601. (a.) = Fig. 602. (b.) f specimens. (Figs. 601, 602.) (a.) Old fracture of frontal bone, with depression; and firm osseous union. The depressed portion of bone is the size of a crown-piece, and presents a double edge above, as of two steps. The depression externally more than equals the entire thickness of the skull; and internally—not shown—the projection is very well marked. A dissecting-room specimen, with no previous history. (Jb.) Fracture of the left parietal bone, and extensive removal of a portion of the bone. Reparation, by the formation of a layer of new bone, proceeding from the end of the fracture, and nearly closing up the large aperture, except in one or two parts, where the dura St. George's Hosp. Mus., 133. t Univ. Coll. Mus., 114.