INJUBIES OP THE THOBACIO PAKIETES, AND ORGANS. 423 connection with wound of the lung, the pericardium, or heart; the ribs or the sternum, respectively, being the seat of fracture, and the broken ends of bone, thence driven inv?ards, being the immediate cause of the iniurv to either thoracic organ. Contusion or covipression of the chest, without fracture, as by a violent blow or squeeze, may directly rupture the lung, pericardium, or heart. A musket-ball, apparently bruising the skin only, has been known to cause haemoptysis, evidently by rupture of the superficial pulmonary vessels; or such cutaneous injury, as it were, may be followed by pleurisy or pneumonia. The heart has been ruptured by indirect violence ; as by a fall on the head, shoulder, or lower extremities. Spasmodic contraction of the heart, under the influence of great mental emotion, is also said to have caused rapture; the unhappy sufferer dying literally of a broken heart. Lastly, a penetrating wotmd of the chest, as by a stab with a knife, a bullet, or other gunshot injury, may also directly implicate either oro'an; but this occasion of internal injury is comparatively rare in civil life. In warfare there are fewer cases of bayonet-wounds of the chest than might be imagined. Symptoms.—The shock of injury is always well marked, with per- haps faintness from loss of blood, amounting sometimes to extreme collapse ; although this state may be partly due to terror or depression. If the Lung be wounded or ruptured, there is also sudden dyspnoea, with a tickling spasmodic cough and bloody-frothed expectoration, or considerable haemoptysis of pure blood. As arising from gunshot wound of the chest, involving the lung, hsemoptysis may not occur until after the lapse of several hours, or even days. But spitting of blood is no certain indication of the lung being wounded; for this symptom may arise from concussion or compression of the chest. Bloody expectoration, or even haemoptysis, is therefore not to be i-e- garded as a pathognomonic sign that the lung is wounded, in connec- tion with a penetrating wound of the thorax. The air inspired escapes at the seat of pulmonary lesion, into the cavity of the pleura; consti- tuting pneumotliorax, with proportionate collapse of the lung. If the ' costal pleura also be wounded, the imprisoned air, passing during ex- piration from the pleural cavity externally, infiltrates and distends the I cellular texture, perhaps to a great extent; constituting empTiijsema. But this symptom also may be absent; as when a penetrating thoracic ■ wound is of large size, so that no air collecting in the pleural cavity, ' there is none expelled. And the escape of air affords no sure evidence of lung-lesion ; for air passes in and out of the pleural cavity during ; respiration, when the wound is of small size. Hsemorrhage taking i place into the pleural cavity is known as hcemothorax. The lung may I protrude to some extent through a penetrating wound of the thorax, forming hernia of the lung. The consequences of injury to the lung may be; inflammation of that organ—pneumonia; and with regard to the pleura—pleurisy ; termi- nating perhaps in pus-formation and its accumulation within the pleural cavity—empyema. If the Pericardium or the Seart also be injured, then, in addition to the extreme collapse, the only peculiar symptoms will be as con- nected with the pericardium; haemorrhage taking place into its cavity, or inflammation of that membrane—pericarditis—ensuing, when life is ■ sufficiently prolonged for thia event.