SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 578 traction, may gradually brace up the relaxed mucous membrane. But it may result m over-contraction ; there is also some risk of erysipe- latous inflammation as a consequence of cauterization, although not more probably than after ligature; the probability of secondary hosmorrhage, when the eschars separate, is another consideration, and that the ulcers heal more slowly,—these two disadvantages depending, however, very much upon the more or less extensive application of the acid. As a powerful astringent, Mr. Allingham relies with confidence on the persulphate of iron, used in solution, 3i. to ^ss. of glycerine mixed with Jss. of water, or as an ointment, 3s8. to 3i. of unguentum cetacei. This agent is said to be most curative with regard to small, capillary, granular piles; it causes no pain, and always arrests haemorrhage. The cZa.??tp-procedure is a combination of the treatment by liga- ture and cauterization. The alleged advantages of this method are the avoidance of any danger consequent on ligature, and the shorter duration of treatment,—about two or three days. But, in exceptional instances, spreading inflammation has been thus in- duced, and pyemia or perhaps tetanus are occasional consequences; while the period of treatment should not be measured by when the patient can get about again, but by the further time necessary for cicatrization,—the period of cure. The disadvantages also seem to preponderate ; there is greater risk of haemorrhage, primary or secondary, when the slough falls off; and the operation will probably prove less effectual in its permanent results. In regard to the pain of and after operation, the clamp-procedure is certainly more to be dreaded than an ordinary cauterization with nitric acid; and this method quite equals its rival, the ligature, both in the degree and continuance of the suffering from that operation. The tumour is seized and drawn down with a vulsellum, and its base compressed with the clamp (Fig. 840) for a few minutes; its free surface is then excised, not too close, by a pair of scissors, curved on the flat; and the surface thus exposed is touched with the strongest nitric acid, or with the actual cautery, at a dull red heat,—observing not to touch the clamp, lest the heat be communicated and the operation rendered more pain- ful, even although an ivory-plated instrument be used. The clamp is removed, and the part, being well oiled, is returned within the anus, completing the operation. This method, originally introduced by Mr. Cusack, of Dublin, has been chiefly advocated by Lee and H. Smith; the latter Surgeon having devised an " improved clamp," worked by a screw, so that pressure may be gradually taken off, and any bleed- ing vessel can be readily seen and secured.