IGO SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ture of the base are tlie escape of some of the contents of the skull : blood, through the ears, nose, and mouth, or into the orbit; a seroios fiidd, probably the cerebro-spinal fluid, from the ears or nose ; or hrain-substance possibly ; accompanied with special symptoms of injury to the cranial nerves as they emerge from the skull. Thus loss of smell or of sight, facial paralysis and deafness, pharyngeal paralysis and aphonia, may severally be indicative of fracture of the base ; although the same symptoms may also occur from injury to the brain, without fracture. But all these symptoms vary with, the situation of the fracture. In the middle fossa, there is prpbably fracture of the petrous por- tion of the temporal bone, with rupture of the tympanum (Fig. 604), and thence the escape of watery fluid, or blood, from the ear. A copious discharge of watery fluid Fig. 604.* from the ear, immediately after the accident, leaves no doubt that such is the nature of the injury. A copious and prolonged bleeding from the ear, followed by a watery discharge, also indicates the same injury — fracture of the petrous bone. A discharge of blood, neither copious nor prolonged, followed by watery discharge, varying in the time of its appearance and its quantity, renders the diagnosis doubtful. The discharge of blood is— according to recent experience, Mr. Hewett affirms—certainly not of a character to warrant the diagnosis of fracture of the petrous bone; while a watery discharge may occur a few hours after the accident, and may even be profuse in quantity, and yet there be no fracture. In the posterior fossa, fracture is more obscure ; unless it extend into the petrous bone. But posterior fractures of the base are sometimes attended with extravasation of blood from the large venous sinuses mto the cellular tissue of the mastoid region, or at the back of the head In the anterior fossa, fracture is attended with extravasation of blood into the orbit, thence under the ocular conjunctiva, and eyehds—the lower one first, in most cases. Hismorrhage from the nose, also, not then turned downwards, passing through the mastoid portion of the temporal bone through the external auditory foramen, the spheno-temporal suture, and the junction of the body of the sphenoid with the basilar portion of the occipital bone ; then almost in the same direction upwards on the left side, and terminated in the left parietal bone, rather lower and further forwards than on the right ^ide When th^^ skull-cap was removed, the anterior half of the base readily moved o^ tlie Posterior. This extensive injury was produced by a cart-wheel passing over the head, com- pressing the cranium ; and the patient died almost immediately. ^ * St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 243. Fracture of the petrous position of left temporal bone, through the internal auditory foramen; the fracture also forms one of the boundaries of the preparation. There was a hue of fractm-e transversely across the left middle fossa, reaching from the squamous part of the te"P°;f ° body of the sphenoid ; and a smaller fracture passed at right angles to this, througii the petrous bone. The lower part of the brain was contused, and there was evi- dence of meningitis. The patient, a man aged thirty, had fal en downstairs, s riking the right side ol" the head.'^On admission to the Hospital, half an hour later he was insensible and bled from the ear and nose. The pupils were dilated and sluggislu Next day a%ious watery discharge commenced from the left ear, and continued foi three days, when death occurred, preceded by delirium and^convulsion..