184 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. vanes in size from a pea to a protrusion exceeding the child's head; it IS soft, rounded, and bluish in colour where covered by thin skin. Such a tumour resembles nsvus, in its congenital formation, colour, and increasing size when the child cries; and it is also difficult to distinguish from a congenital sebaceous cyst in the scalp, with per- foration of the cranium. The subject of this malformation is usually still-born or dies early ; occasionally the child lives to an adult age. Treatment by any operative interference will scarcely be justifiable. ^Ti^—as with spina bifida—when the protrusion is rapidly increasing and threatening to burst, a puncture, followed by evenly adjusted sup- port, may be resorted to. In one case, an encephalocele was sliced oif, and the patient survived. Htdrocephalus, and Paracentesis Capitis.—Sometimes the Surgeon is called upon to puncture the head, to relieve symptoms of compres- sion in an otherwise fatal case of hydrocephalus, in childhood. This operative procedure consists in introducing a very fine trocar and canula perpendicularly through the anterior fontanelle, away from the longitudinal sinus. Two or three ounces of the serous fluid having been allowed to escape, the puncture is closed with a piece of lint, and the temporary support of a bandage to the head will be advisable. The operation may have to be repeated occasionally, at perhaps inter- vals of two or three weeks. OEGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE, AND THEIR APPENDAGES. CHAPTER XLIII.* OPHTHALMIC SUEGERY ; OR INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE, AND ITS APPENDAGES. A CONDENSED vicw of the Injuries and Diseases of the Eye will meet the requirements of the Student and the Practioner, in the special de- partment of Ophthalmic Surgery, as part of a general work on Surgery. Injuries. Wounds.—(1.) The Eyehrows and Eyelids are liable to the injuries of other soft parts. Incised wounds or cuts are of common occui'rence, whether by accident or violence. The mobility of these parts, subject to the twitching action of the corrugator supercilii and levator palpebree muscles, disturbs the process of adhesion and renders cicatrization irregular, with proportionate disfigurement and probable eversion or inversion of the lid. The consequences of any such wound may be serious, although the eye itself escape direct injury; loss or impairment of vision, where the blow has been violent, resulting from some lesion of the nerve centres, or of the optic tract, chiasma, or nerve. * Revised and enlarged by Henry Power, F.K.C.S.