SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 174 raised by the elevator, any overhanging portion of bone removed with Hey 8 saw, or trephining resorted to. Haemorrhage must be controlled if possible. Venous bleeding from one of the sinuses may, perhaps' be arrested by carefully plugging the cranial aperture with a lint- compress ; arterial haemorrhage, as from the middle meningeal, is best controlled for a time, by compressing the vessel with the finger against the inner surface of the skull, or by means of a small wooden plug introduced under the groove of the artery. The results of operative treatment in gunshot fractures of the skull are not encouraging. In the American War, out of 385 cases, where fragments of bone were removed without trephining, 145 of these patients died, showing a mortality of 37"6 ; and of the remainder which recovered, four-fifths were disabled. After the operation of trephining, there were 95 deaths 45 cases of partial recovery, and 15 of complete recovery. Perforating wound of the head presents no peculiarity, except the existence of a second opening, that of exit, about opposite the entrance aperture. The ball having passed through the skull and out again, the question of its extraction will not have to be considered. But the greater damage done to the brain, than by a penetrating wound only, is always a specially dangerous complication. Yet recovery is not beyond hope, although the patient remains permanently disabled by cerebral disorder, various affections of the special senses, or paralysis ; fourteen cases of such recovery having been met with in the experi- ence of the American War. It is remarkable, however, what an amount of injury the brain may possibly sustain without any serious consequence or a fatal issue. Perhaps the most notable case of this kind occurred in the experience of Dr. Harlow, an American Surgeon. A man was shot through the head with a tamping iron, which measured three feet and seven inches in length, one inch and a quarter in diameter at its largest end, and weighed thirteen and a quarter pounds ; this instrument having entered just in front of the left ramus of the lower jaw, it passed upwards and backwards through the left anterior lobe of the brain, and lacerating the superior longitudinal sinus, with fracture of the frontal and parietal bones and protruding the eyeball, the point lodged at the junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures. Yet the patient survived all this injury, and was alive and well twelve years after the accident. Such a case may somewhat encourage a hopeful prpgnosis, in an apparently hopeless condition of gunshot injury to the head and brain. Injuries of the Cranial Nerves.—In connection with injury of the Brain or its Membranes, one or more of the cerebral nerves are sometimes involved, and their functions impaired. The causes of such injuries and functional impairment are various, and the same as those of Brain-injury. Thus, one or more of the cerebral nerves may be injured by an instrument producing fracture. This mode of lesion, a rather rare occurrence, is liable to happen to certain of these nerves, owing to their more accessible situation; the optic and olfactory nerves being especially liable to be injured by a thrust-wound. The fracture itself may implicate one or more of the foramina or canals, through which some of the cerebral nerves emerge from the base of the skull. Certain nerves are more often thus injured than others, owing to the relative frequency of fracture in these situa- tions. The seventh uorvc, on account of the frequency of fracture