SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 428 wound has closed, it will be necessary to tap the chest; an operation wlHoh, m the American War, gave a deathiate of eighty pef cent but this mortality is not much higher than that from plnctrlting gun-' shot wounds of the chest, without such operation. ^ ^ In connection with gunshot wounds of the chest, it may be neces sary to perform the operation of excision, for the removal of portions ot bone; either as the fragments in compound and comminuted frac ture or consequent on caries or necrosis. Such operative procedures must be governed by general principles, and admit of no special description. Thus, portions of the ribs or the sternum, of the clavicle or the scapula, have been removed with more or less success. Hernia of the Lung, or Pneumatocele.—Protrusion of the lun? may follow a penetrating wound of the chest, as a stab, or gunshot wound; or, arising after the external wound has healed, it appears under the cicatrix; and it has been produced by fractured rib without wound, or by any violent straining effort, as during labour. Always a, rare accident, the protrusion is only, properly speaking, hernial when covered with integument,—a very rare occurrence. The lung itself is seldom wounded, in connection with its protrusion. If the pleura be adherent close to the thoracic wound, or seat of rupture, protrusion will be more likely to occur; whereas, if the lung be in a collapsed state, as with a large thoracic wound, the liability will be less. Any part of the thoracic parietes is liable to hernia of'the lung; but more especially one or other side of the chest. The tumour may attain a large size. Owing to the vascularity of the pulmonary texture, and the existence perhaps of a small aperture, a protruded portion soon becomes strangulated; it acquires a deep purple or black colour, and being almost insensible to the touch, it appears as if in a state of gan- grene. But the Surgeon may well doubt this event, until the colour has changed into black or grey, and the texture has become softened by disintegration. Inflammation is liable to extend along the pleura, leading to adhesion or effusion. When covered with integument, hernia of the lung might be mis- taken for the bulging of a purulent collection in the pleura,—empyema. But the distinction may be perceived by percussion and auscultation. Strangulation seldom supervenes, as after protrusion from wound. Treatment.—With an external wound, and the protruding lung in a healthy state, it may be returned into the thorax, while the patient draws a deep breath; or it may be found necessary to slightly enlarge the opening with a probe-pointed bistoury and director, observing to cut across the course of the intercostal muscular fibres. But no en- largement of the wound was required in any of the seven cases which, occurred during the American War. The treatment otherwise is that of a penetrating chest wound. Or, the protruding portion of lung may be allowed to remain as a plug to the pleura, according to Mr. Gruthrie's recommendation, when it soon granulates and heals over. This should certainly be the rule if the pulmonary texture be bruised and lacerated, or in a sloughy state. Such an exposed portion has been known to slough away. It has also been removed surgically and successfully, even although of considerable size. Tulpius ligatured a gangrenous protrusion of the lung, and cut it off with scissors. The piece removed weighed three ounces, yet the patient entirely recovered. Hernial protrusion must be supported by a truss.