SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 96 and thus reduce their bulk; or, it may even be allowable to slice off a portion of muscle, after having formed the flap, rather than leave a redundancy. But this I have very rarely done, except when the muscle was evidently damaged by contusion, above the part to which the injury had apparently extended, upon external examination of the limb. Amputation hy a Long and Short Bectangular Flap—TeaWs Opera- tion (1858).—The object of this method of amputation is twofold—to procure a more useful stump, and to diminish the mortality of the operation. Accordingly, the long flap is formed from that side of the limb which does not contain the principal blood-vessels and nerves, and is made long enough to fold easily over the end of the bone, its length and breadth being equal to half the circumference of the limb; while the short flap is one-fourth its length, and contains the vessels Fig. 532. and nerves divided transversely. (Fig. 532.) No dressing is used, and the stump should not be lifted for many days. Spence's modification of this operation (1858) consists in making the anterior flap only of such length that it shall not double on itself, and of such shape, being rounded oS, that it shall fit more evenly to the curve of the posterior segment of the stump. The posterior in- cision is begun two inches lower down than the base of the anterior flap, and the bone is cleared with a circular movement of the point of the knife, and sawn through two inches higher up than the base of that flap. Garden's Ampidation at the Knee-joint (1863), and through the Con- dyles, is designed on the same principle, the incisions being neai-ly similar, as will be explained more particularly in describing special amputations. Relative Merits of these Methods of Amputation.—The advantages of Teale's amputation are—the prevention of tension by the ample size of the long flap ; that, folding over the end of the bone, the flap soon acquires organic union therewith, and closes up the exposed veins ; that, the limb remaining undisturbed by lifting and dressing, early closure of the veins is thus also favoured; that the end of the bone is covered by a flap free from large nerves and blood-vessels, and that the cicatrix does not adhere to it. The disadvantages con- sist in the necessity of sawing the bone at a higher point when one lono- flap only is made, than when two shorter ones of more equal length are fashioned—thus violating the established rule of not re- movino- a limb at a higher point than is absolutely necessary, and im- pairing also the utility of the stump whenever its length may be a consideration of consequence. In many injuries, with much damage to the soft parts, the operation would be impracticable, and the in- creased danger of a higher amputation would have to be encountered.