393 FRACTURES OF THE SPINE. discovered during life, and tlie fragments becoming united. (Figs. 728 729.) Eleven such specimens have been collected by Dr. Wyman, of New York. Death resulting from gunsJiot injury of the spine showed a high percentage in the cases which occurred during the American Fig. 728.* Fig- 729.t War of the Eebellion ; but it is instructive to note the declining ratio of mortaUty according to the seat of injury, from above down- wards :— Region. Cases. Died. MortaUty. Cervical 91 63 70-0 Dorsal 137 87 63-5 Lumbar 149 66 45-5 Treatment.—The fracture itself cannot be treated. No displacement of consequence can well or safely be rectified; and no mechanical appli- ances can be applied effectually. Any injury to the spinal cord must be treated with reference to inflammation. The patient being placed in bed, flat on his back, to insure rest; local depletion by leeches may first be employed, followed by counter-irritation, cautiously, having regard to the tendency to bed-sores. Subsequently, the adminis- tration of strychnine in small and increasing doses, continued until slight tetanic twitchings are produced, will have the most beneficial influence on the paralysis. Electricity also may be employed, perhaps with advantage. The state of the bladder will require the constant introduction of a catheter to relieve retention; while the treatment appropriate for chronic cystitis may have some avail in changing the character of the urine. The bowels must be carefully regulated by laxative aperients, such as castor oil, and enemata occasionally of turpentine and gruel. Trephining the spine, in order to raise or excise any depressed frag- ments—as originally proposed by Paulus JEgineta—was performed by H. Cline, in 1814; and afterwards by Mr. Oldknow of Nottingham, Mr. Wickham of Winchestei% Mr. Attenburrow, Tyrrel, and Sir A. Cooper; by Dr. Rhea Barton, and other American Surgeons; also by * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., 25'. + Univ. Coll. Mus., 170. Fracture of the arch of the last lumbar vertebra, ex- tending through the upper part of the body of the sacrum; with dislocation of the vertebra forwai-ds and downwards. No history. A dissecting-room specimen.