The contents of the sac are usually both 543 Fig. 822.* OBTUEATOR OR THYROID HERNIA. the linear interval between the quadratus lumborum and abdominal muscles. Obturator or Thyroid Hernia.—A very rare form of hernia m which the protrusion takes place through the obturator foramen. It was first noticed by the elder Arnaud, afterwards by Duverney, and described more particularly by Garengeot in the early part of the last century; since also by Huermann, Cloquet, Vinson, Stanley, Hilton, Tebay, Obre, and Bransby Cooper; and Birkett has collected twenty- five cases. The protrusion having escaped from the pelvis through the obturator canal (Fig. 822), it is developed underneath the pectineus muscle, and in the pubic region of the thigh. The neck of the sac lies behind the horizontal ramus of the pubes, and occupies the obtu- rator canal; the sac may then be confiined between the obturator mem- brane and obturator externus muscle ; or the protrusion makes its way, sometimes between the uppermost fibres of the obturator muscle, some- times above them, and then the fundus and body of the sac is covered by the fascia of that muscle. The obturator vessels and nerve have a variable relation to the tumour; the artery has been found to the outer side, or to the inner side, and less frequently, behind the sac. In Stanley's case, both artery and nerve were above the sac; the former to its inner side, the latter towards its outer. intestine and omentum,—an entero-epiplo- cele; but only a portion of the calibre of the ileum may have descended, and be pro- longed into a diverticulum of considerable length. In one case, the Fallopian tube and ovary formed the contents of the sac; in another, a portion of the urinary bladder. Symptoms.—A small hernial tumour is more or less palpable and visible, situated below Poupart's ligament, in Scarpa's triangle and towards the pubes. There may be a slight fulness only to the eye, in the part of the thigh which is naturally hollow; but on deep pressure with the fingers, a hard lump is felt. In the female, examination per vaginam should be made. No tumour, however, can be detected in a large majority of cases; and the existence of hernia has not been dis- covered during life. Strangulation has been known to supervene, without any local signs of a tumour. Acute pain in the course of the obturator nerve is the most marked symptom in all cases ; pain occur- ring suddenly with the formation of the hernia, and proceeding from the upper and inner part of the thigh; thence extending down the inside of the limb to the knee, front of the leg, foot, and great toe. Pressure over the site of the external aperture of the obturator canal gives rise to paroxysms of pain of great severity. Both sexes are liable to the formation of this hernia, and females especially. Diagnosis.—From crural hernia, a protrusion through the obturator canal may be distinguished by observing the relative positions of the * St. Thomas's Hosp Mus., K. 104. Obturator hernia, on the right side. The protrusion is of small size; and the obturator vessels and nerve pass through the foramen on the outer side of the neck of the sac.