SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AKD SURGERY. -244 the crusts formed by the exudation when the ear is not kept properly clean. The whole of the auricle may be affected, or only a portion of it. Eczema generally occurs in persons of a debilitated constitution, in strumous children, and in women past the middle age, and is sometimes brought on in the lobe by the puncture that is made for the insertion of an earring. If it has lasted for a long time, as it often may, it leaves a permanently deformed auricle. When the external meatus and membrana tympani are involved, it may leave a permanent diminution of the hearing power, from thickening of these structures. The course of treatment I have usually adopted is to remove by syringing with hot water, and teach the patient how to remove, any accumulations in the meatus, and, after drying it thoroughly, to cover the affected parts with a coating of diachylon ointment, which is kept on for twelve hours. It is then washed off and the parts firmly rubbed with flannel, or, in the case of the meatus, with a roll of cotton wool on a pair of forceps. A lotion of sulphate of zinc (three grains to the ounce of water) is then applied, and when this is dry the plaster is again applied as before, the whole process being repeated every twelve hours. Any neighbouring part should be carefully treated, irritating hair ointments being avoided and the general health carefully attended to. Injuries to the External Ear do not appear seriously to affect the hearing. They generally do well under the usual treatment, care being taken to adjust the parts as perfectly as possible. Idiopathic Hoematoma Auris, or vascular tumour of the ear, com- mences by a redness of the auricle, with heat and pain, occasionally accompanied by ecchymosis of the conjunctiva of the same side, (Fig. 643.) This is soon followed by an Tig. 643.* effusion of blood into the concha, which gradually extends over the whole auricle, the natural form being entirely lost. The swelling is usually firm, but fluctu- ation may be detected. The seat of the disease is always in the cartilage, though the pathological conditions vary in differ- ent cases—in some, the perichondrium being separated from the cartilage; in others, pieces of cartilage being found attached to the perichondrium. Some- times the cartilage is thicker, though no harder than normal; the thickened part presenting no appearance of a cyst, but showing under the microscope hyper- trophied cartilage-cells and inter-cellular matter. This cartilage may in some places be converted into true bone, containing Haversian canals and well-* defined cells. The idiopathic form of this disease, induced by a gener^ disturbance of nutrition, is believed to be peculiar to P^*'^^^^^^ ^f/^ from or threatened with insanity, and is most common m general paralysis, melancholia, a<!ute and chronic mama, and dementia. ^ It^is as yet undecided whether the pathological changes which occur in this idiopathic disease are the same as those which occur when * Eepresentation of a hjematoma auris. (Gruber.)