AMPUTATIONS. 93 of cold water, are of course included among the requisite surgical appliances. A few minutes' personal examination of these instrumenta -will enable the youngest student to -pm. 529. understand them far better than by any lengthened description. Some of the instruments are not absolutely neces- sary, or comparatively seldom requisite. A tourniquet may be dispensed with, provided pressure be made on the main artery by the thumb of a steady assist- ant; and pressure can thus be made higher up in the limb than by means of a tourniquet, as in amputation at the upper third of the thigh. The advan- tages of a tourniquet are, that it com- presses the smaller arterial vessels as well as the main trunk—the band por- tion encircling the limb, and that the compression of the pad is uniform and unfailing; the disadvantage is, that it also arrests the venous circulation, thus causing a greater loss of venous blood. This may be avoided by not screwing up the instrument tightly until just before commencing the operation. But Esmarch's bandage and elastic coil are now more commonly used than the tourniquet. The limb having been elevated for two or three minutes, thus by gravitation to reduce the quantity of blood in it, the roller is applied, with uniform compression, from the foot upwards to where the artery is to be compressed; then, a cork-pad being placed upon the artery, the elastic coil is drawn around the limb over the pad, by one or two turns, as may seem necessary, and the coil secured by a wooden groove-catch. Before applying the coil, the skin may be pro- tected with a layer of lint. Cutting-pliers will not be required unless the bone be allowed to snap by dropping the distal portion of the limb, before the saw has passed completely through the bone. A tenaculum can be needed only where the artery must be " dipped " for; as an interosseous artery in the angle of two bones, just below the knee or elbow joint, in amputations of the leg or forearm at these parts. Liga- tures may be set aside if acupressure-needles be used; or both dis- pensed with, by torsion of the vessels. The instruments should be arranged on a small table or tray close at hand to the operator, or the assistant handing them to him ; and he should himself see that everything is prepared before he begins the operation. This injunction applies equally to all Surgical Operations. Assistants are required, varying in number according to the magni- tude of the amputation; one assistant specially to administer chloro- form, another to command the artery, a third to retract the flaps, and a fourth to support the limb, and, after its removal, to apply the liga- tures, if used, as the arteries are seized by the operator. Thus the operation will be conducted in an orderly manner. In an emergency, fewer assistants will suffice, if they be instructed to do double duty. Operation of Amputation.—Two forms of Amputation are practised: flap amputation by transfixion and cutting two flaps outwards, or one