223 DISEASES OF THE CHOROID AND RETINA. suddenly, and damage is done to the iris or to some other internal structure of the eye. In the method of suction proposed by Mr. Teale, in 1863, instead of the above-described apparatus, a syringe, with tightly fitting piston, is employed ; but the instrument is open to similar objections. Whichever of these methods of treatment is adopted, a portion of the posterior capsule often remains, for the removal of which two needles may be used together, in order to more eifectually tear the extensible textux'e of the capsule ; but the one should be passed in until its point reaches the middle of the pupil, before the second one is intro- duced through the cornea. Both eyes may be operated on simultaneously, in infants; but one eye—that most affected—should be operated on first, in adults. A fluid cataract having been subjected to solution by the needle, distressing sickness and perhaps intense neuralgia occasionally sets in immediately. The anterior chamber is full of creamy fluid, concealing the iris. On evacuating this fluid, by means of a broad cutting-needle introduced at the point of puncture, the sickness may be averted. Nausea is best relieved by swallowing fragments of ice, and the neu- ralgia by chloroform liniment applied to the forehead and temple. The a/i(er-treatment is simple; both eyes should be kept closed by means of a light bandage for twenty-four hours, when the little punc- ture-wounds in the cornea will have closed. A single operation may I suffice to procure absorption, in the course of a few weeks, but this is a ; rare result; usually, it must be repeated again, and a third time, at an i interval of two or three months. An Opaque GajJstde or Capsular Cataract, remaining after the opera- I tion for solution, must itself be removed. This can be done by either I of three operations. (1.) One or two needles or a Taylor's knife may i be introduced as for depression, and the opaque capsule torn or cut 1 through ; as it shrinks away, the pupil becomes clear. (2.) The upper I part of the capsule, for four-fifths of its circumference, may be de- 1 tached by the needle from the suspensory ligament, and then be 1 pushed down below the pupil. (3.) These operations having failed, an opening may be made in the cornea, through which the opaque cap- sule is extracted by means of a small hook or forceps. The latter in- strument should be sa constructed that when its points are separated tthe iris shall not fall between them. Such is the cannula-forceps. Operations on Infants.—Congenital cataracts should be operated c on at an early period—within four months after birth ; otherwise, the t eye born blind, constantly oscillating from side to side, may never acquire directed vision. The child reclining under the influence of chlo- r reform, and the head being steadied by an assistant, the operation for ■ solution should be performed. The lens is so soft, that this procedure may be completed at once, and on both eyes. A bandage is then ' applied. Inflammation rarely supervenes, and absorption takes nlace r rapidly. ^ ^ Diseases of the Choroid and Retina.—(1.) Dimness of sight may 'i be symptomatic of various deep-seated morbid alterations in the eye- ball, unconnected with any changes in the anterior tissues of the globe, and as discovered by external examination with the unaided vision! ■ iHns, the ophthalmoscope may show masses of pigmentary deposit overspreadmg the choroidal surface, or an inflammatory state of' the eyeball.