113 AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDKR-JOINT. escapes. Amputation at the right shoulder-joint is performed in precisely the same way, only that the shoulder is transfixed from before backwards, the knife being entered in front of the deltoid about an inch below the acromion, and made to emerge at the posterior border of the axilla. The axillary artery and other vessels having been tied or securely twisted, the flaps are adjusted with sutures. Spencers method consists, principally, in forming a lai'ge outer flap by incision. On the right side, for example; " the arm being slightly aiaducted, and the head of the humerus rotated outwards, an incision' is made with a strong bistoury, on the inner aspect of the humerus immediately external to the coracoid process, and carried down through the clavicular fibres of the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles, to the humeral attachment of the latter muscle, which is there divided. Then, the incision is gently curved across and fairly through the lower ilbres of the deltoid towards, but not through, the posterior border of the axilla. Unless the textures be much torn, the line of the lower part of the inner section is then marked by carrying an incision through the skin and fat only, from the terminal point of the vertical incision, across the inner side of the arm to meet the incision at the outer side. This insures accuracy in the line of union, but is not essential. The large outer flap is dissected up, and the head of the humerus disarticulated, as in the other mode of amputation. If the shoulder be very muscular, redundancy of flap is avoided by raising the integument only, from the deltoid, at the lower part, and then dividing the muscular texture higher up." Ha3morrhage having been arrested, and the flap adjusted by a few points of suture, a flat pad of lint is applied and secured by a six-tailed split cloth, the tails being fastened on the opposite side of the body. Three advantages are claimed for this method of amputation at the shoulder-joint: the fullness and better form of the stump, instead of the ugly hollow which results from the opposed action of the pectoralis major in fr^nt, and the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles behind; the preservation of the trunk of the posterior circumflex artery ; and the greater facility offered for disarticulation. Or, the outer flap may be made by incision from without in- wards, and raising the flap upwards by two or three sweeps with the knife; a modification more suitable in amputation for disease of the arm, where the muscular texture has undergone atrophy or con- Ki densation. i Results. — Amputation at the shoulder-joint for disease of the humerus is more successful than the same operation for injury. The mortality in the one case was 1 in 4; in the other, 5 in 18 (Spence) ; ■and amounted to 35 percent, during the Crimean War. The death- rate per cent, in the American War was 39 ; that after amputation in • the arm being only 21 per cent., a difference of 18 adverse to ampu- Jj tation at the shoulder-joint. The injury requiring amputation, as com- V pound fracture of the humerus high up, is usually accompanied with ■ other injuries, particularly of the head, thus increasing the risk of a latal result. j Amputations of the Lower Exteemitt. : The Foot (Figs. 557, 558.)-Am2mtations of the Toes, at their , Mimanrjeal Articulations, and at their Metatarso-jphalangeal Articu-