INJURIES OF THE THORACIC PARIETES, AND ORGANS. 427 the patient, must not be made absolute. If the position prove intoler- able, he may be allowed to lie in whatever position is most comfortable to him; but the almost inevitable consequences of an unsuitable posi- tion should not be overlooked. On the other hand, three exceptional conditions are worthy of notice, in either of which the proper practice will be to close the wound, although the lung be involved. With pneumothorax to such an extent as to threaten suffocation, the external wound should be closed, at least so long as the breathing is thus relieved; with pulmonary htemorrhage, and blood escaping through, the external wound to an amount which threatens fatal syncope, the same precaution should be taken, in order that, by allowing the blood to accumulate within the pleural cavity, a clot-compress may form over the pulmonary wound,—but, in the event of the breathing becom- ing oppressed, the thoracic wound should be at once reopened to dis- . charge the blood; lastly, with perforation of both pleural cavities, the ; admission of air should be prevented, which would otherwise soon prove fatal. Under these circumstances, it may be advantageous to ; adopt the method of " hermetically sealing " the wound,—by paring, : metallic suture, and wool-compress saturated with collodion, as pro- posed and practised with more or less success by Dr. Benjamin Howard, . of the United States Army. Constitutional treatment consists in the . remedial measures appro- priate for arresting pulmonary hemorrhage. Perfect quietude, so that I the breathing shall be as placid as possible, must always be enjoined; : for healthy pulmonary texture evinces a strong natural disposition to I heal. Astringents may then be administered with advantage, and in 1 particular gallic acid, alum, or acetate of lead and opium in pill. I Opiates are also remedial by insuring sleep, and diminishing the I respiration. The efficacy of blood-letting in reducing the force of the < circulation, as originally inculcated by John Bell, Hennen, and Guthrie, ' was corroborated by the large experience gained during the Crimean War. Venesection should be had recourse to early and copiously, J sixteen or twenty ounces of blood being drawn at once, and repeated I to a lesser amount again and again, whenever necessary to suppress i haemoptysis. More recent experience during the American War is . adverse to the practice of blood-letting. I am in favour of one decided J and, as it may be termed, knock-down abstraction of blood, when the T pulmonary lesion will probably undergo repair sufficiently to arrest hemorrhage before the pulse rises and bleeding can recur. Inflammation supervening after about the third day, it should be met by the usual antiphlogistic treatment; with this difference, that antimony and mercury are scarcely appropriate, owing, as Mr. Lawson has observed, to their influence in checking the exudation of ■ plastic lymph requisite for the reparation of the wounded lung. Secondary hsemorrhage may arise from inflammatory excitement of the circulation, or after gunshot wound, by the detachment of sloughs; the blood proceeding either from the lung, or from an injured inter- costal artery. Venesection is the remedy in the first case ; with ligature or compression in the second; and astringents in either case may prove serviceable. The pleural cavity may have become filled, and the lung compressed by air, extravasated blood, or inflammatory effusion, serous or purulent; the wound should then be opened with a probe-pointed bistoury, and free vent given to any such collection. Or, when the