545 Fir. 824.* what elongated projection at the side of the vagina. VAGINAL, PUDENDAL, AND ISCHIATIC HERNIA. there is generally some prolapsus of the vagina, and a ball-shaped vaginal pessary certainly aids the perineal bandage. Vaginal Hernia is a variety of the preceding,- and was first dis- tinctly recognized by Grarengeot. The protrusion is covered only by peritoneum and the wall of the vagina; and forms a swelling in the vagina, instead of the perineum. It is specially liable to occur in women who have borne children. Vaginal hernia is easily reduced, as the orifice of the sac is usually large; but it must be retained by a sponge pessary, extending up to the os uteri, where the protrusion commences, and supported by a T bandage. Pudendal Hernia descends along the vagina, but escapes from under the adjacent portion of the levator ani, between the ascending ramus of the ischium and this passage. It forms a small elastic tumour in the labium pudendi, lying in the posterior and inferior half of this part, and presenting a some- The diagnosis from other tumours is important. Other labial tumours which may be confounded with pudendal hernia, comprise those formed by inguinal protrusions and by collections of fluid. Of the latter are cystic formations and hydrocele of the round ligament. These, however, are never redacible, nor diminished by pressure, and they slowly enlarge from their iirst ap- pearance. From inguinal her- nia (Pig. 824), the pudendal is distinguished by its position, shape, and relations. Thus, pudendal hernia has not passed through the external inguinal ring, but lies parallel with the axis of the vagina ; it does not form a pyriform tumour in the labium, but a somewhat roanded mass; and it lies by the side of the ramus of the ischium, and not over the body of the pubes. Prom crural hernia, the diagnosis consists in the neck of the pudendal tumour being situated entirely to the inside of the ramus of the ischium and the attached muscles. A suitable bandage is required to support the protrusion. IscHiATic Hernia escapes through the sciatic notch (Pig. 825), above or below the pyriform muscle; usually below, between it and the spme of the ischium. Lying in close relation with the sciatic nerve and the internal iliac vessels, the tumour forms beneath the glutseus maximus muscle; but e ;tending further out of the pelvis, it escapes below the border of that muscle and becomes sub-integumental The hernial tumour is of variable size, soft or tense, causing more or less pain, and reducible on pressure. When not fully developed and * Royal Free Hospital. (Author.)