421 SPINA BIFIDA. cnhiect to this form of spinal curvature, from being nursed too soon in c^^+tincr nosture Lordosis occurs as a natural tendency m rickets; the nelvic bones yielding under the weight of the trunk, the sacrum nclines forwards! carrying with it the lumbar portion of the vertebral Simn The influence of occupation is witnessed m the lumbar lordosis of tumbling boys and acrobats. Caries of the lumbar vertebrae s attended with an arching forwards m this region; or a secondary and compensatory curve forms in this direction, with excuryation from dLase in the dorsal region. Disease of the hip-]oint, and especially after anchylosis with flexion of the femur, is perhaps always accom- panied with lumbar lordosis, as well as some ateral curvature. I had I marked example of this in a little boy, whose knee I e^^^f ^ ? patient having also anchylosis of the hip, with flexion of the thigh to such a degree that any attempt to depress the limb caused a semi- circular arching of the spine over the bed, m the lumbar region. Un- reduced dislocation of the femur backwards, or similar congenital dislocation of one or both hip-joints, results in lumbar incurvation. _ The Treatment should be conducted on the same mechanical prin- ciples of counter-support or pressure, gradually applied^ as in the management of lateral curvature. The apparatus for Gyphosis has already been noticed. (See Fig. 755.) For Lordosis^ ^ stay-appa- ratus should be worn, having upright crutch-supports to relieve the weio-htof the trunk, but provided with a padded back-plate, or an abdominal band (see Fig. 756) ; the former appliance resembling the apparatus used for anchylosing angular curvature. In the two figures —that to the left shows where the axis of the curve is to be found, as indicated by the arroiv; that to the right depicts the abdominal sup- port, and ioint of the upright, so placed as to correspond exactly with the centre of curvature. As associated with caries, or with lateral cur- vature, the treatment of dorsal lordosis forms part of the management of these conditions; and so also in regard to cervical lordosis with • caries. Spina Bifida.—Structural Con- ditions.—A congenital malforma- tion, signifying the absence or deficiency of the laminae and spinous processes of some of the vertebrae, with protrusion of the membranes of the cord through the opening thus left in these bones. (Fig. 757.) The sac formed contains a thin, clear, colourless fluid, — cerebro-spinal, which accumulates as the protru- sion increases. This structural defect, resulting from an arrest of development, may be found in any part of the spinal column ; in the lumbar region, usually; in the dorsal or cervical region, rarely. The spinal cord and nerves are not generally involved; but above the lumbar region, they are liable to be adherent to the interior of the sac ; or lower down, in the sacral region. * St. Thomas's Hosp Mus., LL. 5.