SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. In Dr. Hodges' collection of forty-nine cases wherein this particular WHS observed, the average was 230 days. In my own cases, the avera-u period of union was three months. In extreme cases of hip-joint excision—extreme as to the extent of bone removed—the resulting state of the limb may yet be successful. It was so m my own two such cases, after removal of the upper end of the femur, to four mches and four and a half in length, with one inch more of cancellated bone, and entering the medullary canal, in both cases; and also in both the cases of acetabular and pelvic bone-disease after removal of the affected portions of bone by Mr. Hancock and Mr. Erichsen respectively,—the patients recovering, and with useful limbs. The following is a summary of some of my own hip-joint cases, as typical illustrations of the conditions of disease which are appropriate for excision, and the results, proximate and permanent, in each case ; an analysis being appended, with reference to the several qiiestions of importance pertaining to excision of the hip-joint for disease. I have drawn up these cases from clinical notes carefully taken— in the first two by Mr. John B. Foster, in the second two by Mr. Marriott, formerly house surgeons; and in the remaining four, by Mr. T. C. Murphy, formerly senior house surgeon, at the Royal Free Hospital. Typical Cases of Hip-joint Excision.—Case 1.—William M , set. 26; admitted into the Royal Free Hospital March, 1864 Scrofulous^ caries of the left femur; the head and the articular car- tilage entirely destroyed, the neck, great trochanter, and one inch of shaft involved, with one inch more of cancellated structure; similar disease of acetabulum, and horizontal ramus of pubes ; dislocation on dorsum ilii with abscess ; constitutional condition, advanced hectic; disease of traumatic origin; duration of disease, four years; treat- ment, three years. Excision of four inches of femur, and one inch of cancellated structure. Recovery, with a freely movable joint and a useful limb, in three months. Permanent result known after two years and a half. Case 2.—John R , set. 16; admitted into the Hospital July 22nd, 1863. Caries of left femur; its neck and great trochanter, the head inyolTed, with circumferential destruction of the articular car- tilage, and disease in the shaft to two inches in extent, vsdth one inch more of cancellated structure ; similar disease of acetabulum ; disloca- tion on dorsum ilii with abscess ; constitutional condition, advanced hectic ; immediate cause, cold; duration of disease, one year. Excision of four inches and a half of femur, and the one inch of cancellated structure. Recovery, with a freely movable joint, and a useful limb, in two months and a half. Result known to be fermanent after five years. Case 3.—George C , set. 15 ; admitted into the Hospital June 9th, 1864. Caries of right femur; its head and neck entirely de- stroyed, great trochanter and a small piece of the shaft involved; similar disease of acetabulum; dislocation and abscess on dorsum ilii; health good; disease of traumatic origin; duration of disease, two years. Excision of one inch and three-quarters of femur. Recovery, with a freely movable joint and a useful limb, in three months. Case 4.—Edward M , aet. 8; admitted into the Hospital June 10th, 1864. Caries of left femur, its head and neck destroyed; similar