411 DISEASE OF THE ATLAS AND AXIS, ETC. Fig. 743 * and no evil results have followed the suspension principle • excepting-, in some instances, the production of sores, either from pressure when the plaster of Paris bandage has been applied over sharp prominences -ivithoiit the protection of lateral padding, or in other cases sores pro- duced by friction when the jacket has become too loose. In either case a reapplication of the jacket is necessary. (Note by William Adams.) Disease of the Atlas and Axis, and of the Atlas and Occipital gQjjB—Caries of the first two cervical vertebra is less liable to occur, there being less osseous substance than in other vertebra. Disease beo-ins in their articulations, or in the occipito-atloidean articulations; thus resembling disease of other joints. Swelling and pain, with rio-idity or inability to move the head, are followed by abscess behind the pharynx. A broad fluctuating swelling in this situation, extends to either side of the neck, giving the individual a remarkable a,ppearance, grotesque if it were not distres- sing. Deglutition, respiration, and speech are impaii-ed, the voice having a nasal twang; while with an anxious expression, open mouth, and dribbling saliva, the head fixed and supported by both hands under the chin, the patient turns round bodily in looking at anything, and the eyes acquire a peculiar rolling range of motion. Wasting hectic may gradually reduce the sufferer; or his misery terminate suddenly by asphyxia, owiug to pressure on the cord by dislocation of the axis forwards, the transverse and accessory check ligaments having given way. The head falls forward, carrying with it the atlas, the odontoid process of the axis compresses the cord, and all is over. (Fig. 743.) It is said that the atlas may undergo dislocation gradually, and even so far forward as to bisect the vertebral canal into equal parts, thus compressing the cord into half its former size, yet without paraplegia resulting. The patient may, indeed, recover, with permanent disloca- tion and anchylosis. Certain slight defects only will then be observ- able ; a stiff and somewhat contorted neck, the chin and face ad- vanced unnaturally, and the back of the head more in a line with the spine, while the spinous process of the axis projects conspicuously. Ihe cause of this disease would appear to be a scrofulous consti- tution, provoked probably by some slight strain or other injury affect- ing the neck. Puberty seems to be the age at which the disease com- monly begins ; but it occurs also in infantile or adult life. Treatment must be the same in principle as that of spinal disease producing angular curvature ; absolute rest by fixing the head, counter- irritation when necessary, and tonics. * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., E. 2'. Absorption of the odontoid process of the axis, with dislocation backwards of the body of that vertebra. There was no trace of pus, and the parts seemed to be undergoing repair; tolerably firm cellular adhe- sions imiting the anterior surface of the body of the axis with the under border of the atlas. The spinal canal is here much diminished, and the cord has suffered compression. From the body of a man, aged twenty-eight. No history recorded.