G53 URINARY DISEASES AND THEIR TREATMENT. by Dr. Bright,* and which the experience of other observers has since confirmed: "intemperance seems its most usual source, and exposure to cold the most common cause of its development." f Bile in Urine—Treatment of Jaundice.—The retention of bile in the blood circulating, and thence its efEect on the system at large, of which the escape of biliary colouring matter in the urine is sympto- matic,—is the pathological condition of therapeutic importance. But this again has reference to the structural conditions of the liver or adjacent organs, by which such retention is effected. These causative conditions are — either mechanical, by obstruction, in the ducts or externally, to the free flow of bile into the duodenum, thus permittino- the absorption of the bile imprisoned; or, some structural disease o^ the liver,—arrest of secretion being then the immediate cause in. operation, thus preventing the elimination of biliary constituents from the blood. Without any structural disease of the liver itself, arrest of its secretion may also be caused by various morbid states of the blood or of the nervous system, which, severally, paralyzing the function of this organ, induce jaundice. The indications of treatment which may be gathered from the pathology of jaundice are of different practical significance and hopefulness. If the retention of bile be due to some mechanical obstruction only, that causative condition may cease spontaneously An impacted gall-stone will most probably pass, in the course of time ; or the pressure, externally, of any adjacent organ enlarged by disease^ may itself be reheved from time to time. Kepeated opiates, or the warm bath, will also tend to soothe and relax spasm, in the one case • and an accidental turn in the course of the disease may bring relief in the other. But with structural disease of the liver itself, remedial measures become necessary, yet the result is less hopeful. An appeal to the secretory power of the liver may have a satisfactory response and thus the administration of the cholagogue purgatives, large doses ot blue pill or taraxacum, with sahnes to unload the portal circulation may be advisable. Arrest of secretion by the influence of various blood-poisons, or powerful mental emotions, or the shock of bodily injury, affecting the nervous system, are cases scarcely within the reach of medicine. Thus, jaundice arising, occasionally, from pyemic intection of the blood, from poisoned wounds, and from various fevers subsides only as the morbific matters in operation are eliminated through other channels of excretion. Preventive Treatment.—The appropriate preventive measures with regard to each of the blood-diseases, the causes and treatment of which we have now considered, are at once suggested by reference to the causes themselves. Temperature is the main question to be considered in referencp to the prevention of jaundice. Not that other etiological conditions are unimportant, but they are for the most part beyond our control A hot chma,te predisposes to jaundice by enfeebling the circulntini-. and mducmg congestion of the liver. It i's probable "also tlmtdW^ ished oxygenation of the blood, through habitually breathing a hot ♦ " Eeports of Medical Cases selected with a view of illiiRfrn+i,-,o. q . and Cure of Diseases by a Reference to Morbid Anatom;," iS'^ vof i n -/'"^''"'"^ t "Guy's Hosp. Rep.." 1830, vol. i. Cases nii,l nK= Tii T .- ^ . ^ Disease, accompanfed wi'Ih the secretion of Albuminous g^ne^ lrS ^ ^'""''^