719 CYSTITIS. Cystitis usually commences suddenly and runs a rapid course; or it may supervene on the chronic foi'm of the disease. • Causes.—'Acute cystitis is commonly the consequence of an extension of inflammation from adjacent parts ; most frequently from the urethral mucous membrane, by gonorrhcsal inflammation extending backwards to the neck of the bladder, in retrocedent gonorrhoaa ; or more severe inflammation may have extended from the prostate, the rectum, or the kidneys. Injuries comprise—blows and pelvic fractures, opera- tions of lithotrity, prolonged catheterism, injections, and litho- tomy; in the female, prolonged and instrumental labours; also the mechanical irritation of calculus; the chemical action of cantharides and of some mineral poisons, and strong diuretics; or the action of the urine itself, retained and decomposed, as in stricture and prostatic enlargement. The disease arises also sometimes from gout, or from exposure to cold. Terminations.— Resolution; or the disease may subside into the chronic form ; suppuration in the wall of the bladder (Fig. 893), leading to peritonitis, or between the bladder and rectum, fol- lowed by urinary infiltration in the cel- lular tissue of the pelvis or of the peri- neum ; ulceration, or gangrene of the . mucous membrane, in the worst cases. Treatment.—Eemedial measures consist in derivation, diluents and alkalies to render the urine unirritating, and the influence of opium. Thus, perfect rest in the recumbent position will relieve the bladder of the whole weight of the upward column of blood; and this derivative effect may be aided by leeches to the perineum, and warm fomenta- tions to the abdomen. Laxative aperients, such as castor oil, preceded by a dose of calomel at the beginning, will also derive from the bladder and keep the bowels free from irritation. Diluent drinks such as barley-water, should be liberally allowed; and the citrate or nitrate of potash largely diluted. Opium may be advantageously administered m the form of enemata or suppository, thus to allay the distressing vesical irritabiHty; while the continued influence of opium ^taken internally, tends to subdue pain and inflammation. Belladonna' hyoscyamus, and conium have also some reputed efficacy, whether as administered by the mouth or per rectum. ' If cystitis be the consequence of retrocedent gonorrhoea, the return of urethral discharge should be solicited by warm fomentations to the penis, or wrapping it in a poultice. When the urine is acid, and its sediment yellowish and not coherent, but purulent, Sir B Brodie recommends a pill of calomel two grains, with half a grain of opium to be taken twice or three times a day. When the urine is alkaline' and deposits a small quantity of brownish adhesive mucus the same author advises the vinum colchici to be given in fifteen minum doses tarice claiJy for three or four successive days. ' Cystitis resulting from cantharides locally or internally absorbed comes on usually within two to four hours after the dose; the symptoms * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 1994b. (John Hilton.)