SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 308 In the case of the teeth in front of the second permanent molars, the only results of overcrowding are the disfigurement of the mouth and the damage to the teeth occasioned by their pressure against one another; but pain and inflammation are seldom set up. With the wisdom teeth, however, the case is very different. When any difficulty is interposed in the way of their eruption, very severe suffering, often of a neuralgic character, is apt to be produced, and to be accompanied by various reflex disturbances in other parts supplied by the fifth nerve. The first permanent molar, the second, and the third or wisdom tooth have all been developed in crypts situated beneath and in the base of the coronoid process. When the growth of the jaw proceeds normally, it takes place by its backward elongation; the coronoid process receding, by the coincident absorption of its anterior and the deposition of _ bone npon its posterior surfaces, so that when the time for the eruption of the tooth arrives, there should be no part of the coronoid process above it to retard its upward progress. But this normal growth of the jaw has often been arrested prior to the requisite space for the wisdom teeth having been provided between the back of the second lower molar and the front of the coronoid process, so that it has to force its way upwards through an insufficient space, or to pass inwards, so as to he to the inner side of the base of the coronoid process. The upper wisdom teeth, not having similar relation with the bone around them, are less liable to get into difficulties. The trouble experienced may be limited to pain and other nervous disturbance, or there may be great inflammation set up in the surround- ing parts. When a patient, aged from nineteen to three or four and twenty, in whom the wisdom teeth are not fairly up, complains of stiffness about the jaws, of variable pain—sometimes a dull aching, some times a neuralgic paroxysm, with days or even weeks of entire inter- mission—and no other morbid condition can be detected in the mouth, the wisdom teeth may be suspected, even though there be no visible irritation in their region. Pain and sensation of numbness are often experienced about the mental foramen when such trouble is due to the difficult eruption of a lower wisdom tooth. The diagnosis may be a little difficult, especially m eminently- neuralgic or hysterical girls. When a partly hidden wisdom tooth has been discovered, the mouth should be carefully examined to see what prospect of complete eruption the tooth has. If the patient be over twenty and there be very insufficient space, the offendmg tooth should, if possible, be taken out; if this be impossible, the second permanent molar should be sacrificed, for deferring the operation will only subject the patient to a continuance of the pain. But when the msdom teeth are being cut unusually early, it maybe worth while to wait ±or a tune as more space may perhaps be provided. Though pams ref erred to the whole jaw, and stiffness due to a slight degree of spasm of the masseter, are the most common symptoms of difficult eruption of the wisdom teeth, a great variety of other symptoms may be present. _ ihus, tran- sient deafness, with pain in the eyeball, sometimes very mtense, witU or without increased lachrymation, twitchings of facial muscles, ptosis and many other manifestations of disturbed innervation are sometimes met with. Epileptiform attacks have even, with a high degree oi Brobability, been traced to this cause. ^ It is, however, more common to find distinctly marked inflammation