SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the prostate will increase this proportionate dilference; so that if the finger be introduced through the neck of the bladder, as in lithotomy the tundns is felt inclining downwards, and as the prostate proiects upwards, the finger must be hooked downwards to reach the fundus In t^e female, the prostate being absent, the inferior fundus is less relatively dependent below the neck of the bladder, but the capacity of the whole organ is perhaps larger than in the male; and its width trom side to side is greater than its height from base to summit, which is the longer diameter in the male subject. Prostate Gland.—By an intimate association, both patholoo-ical and surgical, we are led from the anatomy of the bladder to consider the structure and relations of the prostate gland. "We proceed there- fore to notice, successively, the situation, shape, size, position, and relations of this organ; then, its structure; and lastly, the prostatic portion of the urethra. The prostate, an organ peculiar to the male subject, is a firm glan- dular body, situated at the neck of the bladder, which it surrounds, and the commencement of the urethra passes through it. This body is placed deep in the cavity of the pelvis, and looking towards its outlet m the perineum; it lies below the symphysis pubis by half an inch or more, and behind the triangular ligament at its lowest part. Standing in front of the neck of the bladder, adjoining its base, the prostate thence derives its name {Trpola-TTq^ii, to stand before); and beneath it rests on the middle portion of the rectum, just above the terminal portion,—about the depth of one inch and a half from the anus, where the bowel turns downwards to the anal aperture. Here, there- fore, the prostate is accessible from the surface in the perineum. The shape and size of this body resemble the form and dimensions of a horse-chestnut. Its shape is that of a truncated cone, com- pressed from above downwards; the base being turned backwards to the bladder, and the blunt apex forwards to the triangular ligament and the membranous portion of the urethra. The anterior, or upper, surface—according to the position of the body—is somewhat convex, and marked by a slight median groove. The under surface is larger and flattened; it also presents a median furrow, thus indicating a division of the gland into two lateral lobes. The base of the prostate, its thickest part, is notched in the middle and under aspect of the gland; and this posterior notch receives the common ejaculatory ducts, above which, and in the interval between the lateral lobes, is placed a small rounded or triangular portion of the gland,—the third or middle lobe, transversely connecting the two lateral lobes, and which lies beneath the neck of the bladder, just behind the uvula and the adjoining commencement of the urethra. The sides of the prostate are convex, and the apex is truncated. In respect to the size of this body, it varies so much according to the age of the subject, that the average dimensions must be taken as found in the adult. The measurements in three different directions may thus be stated : from apex to base, one inch or rather longer; transversely at the base, its widest part, about one inch and a half; and in depth or thickness, about one inch or rather less. Consequently, an incision having an oblique direction downwards and outwards, from apex to base, in the lateral part of the gland, will be the longest section of which the pros- tate admits. But in infancy and youth, the gland is rudimentary or