699 MEDIAN LITHOTOMY. and tlie latter instrument tten withdrawn, as in the old Marian operation. But the left forefinger is passed along the probe into the bladder, and used to dilate the prostate and neck, serving also as a guide to the forceps. When the stone is free, it comes at once into contact with the finger, and, if of moderate size, escapes readily into the wound on withdrawing the finger; the patient having power to strain upon and thereby facilitate the extraction of the stone. The advantages claimed for the niedian, over the lateral operation, are—that the incision being strictly in the median line, no vessels are divided, and no gaping open wound is left; the integrity of the bladder being preserved, and no chloroform given, the patient himself helps to expel the stone. This operation is most suitable for small stones, and where lithotrity is inadmissible. The results of Median, as compared with those of Lateral, Lithotomy have been decidedly unfavourable ; a difference owing doubtless to the fact that in Median Lithotomy, withozit section of the prostate, this gland and the neck of the bladder are braised and lacerated by the dilatation—whether with " dilators " or the " forefinger." Thus, com- paring the results of forty-four cases of Median Lithotomy with the last forty-four current cases of lateral lithotomy in the Norwich Hospital, 1863, Mr. Williams's table shows that of the median cases eleven died, whereas of the lateral cases only two died. This may be a too unfavourable estimate of the median operation; for, of twenty- three cases, Mr. Teale reports that twenty recovered, and only three died. Fifteen were in adults, with a proportion of thirteen recoveries and two deaths. The average period of recovery—in the former series— was seven days in favour of the median operation; Pig. §88. thirty days instead of thirty-seven, as after the lateral operation. The weight or size of the cal- culus much affects the result. There was no in- stance of recovery when the stone exceeded three drachms and two scru- ples ; except in one case, that of a stone weighing four and a half ounces, but the extraction of ' which was followed by sloughing of the rectum and perineum, with recto- vesical fistula. Nor was there an instance of re- covery where the stone exceeded an inch and a half in its long diameter, and an inch and an eighth in its short axis, otherwise than the excep- tional case mentioned. Rectangular Staff Operation.—Br. Buchanan of Glasgow introdnccd this procedure, which is a modification of the median operation. He