858 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. more successful. In twenty-four cases collected by Dr. Storer of Boston,-the uterus having been extirpated for tumours, malignant or benign -eighteen were fatal, but six recovered, or one in four. To Dr Uay, of Manchester, the credit is due of having first performed this method of hystero onoy, m 1843; but, ten years later, Dr. Burnham! ot Lowell, gamed the first successful result. Palliative treatment is alone available in cases unfitted for opera- tion owing to a more advanced extent of disease. Pain may be miti- gated by opiates, hasmorrhage restrained by styptics, and foetid discharge corrected by detergent injections of chlorinated solutions, or Londy s fluid. Absence of the Uterus and Ovaries.—This congenital defect occasionally coexists with imperforate vagina ; the external organs of generation, constituting the vulva, being present, and the breasts developed. The signs of this defective condition are these:—The patient may have attained adult age without ever having menstruated, and then an examination is instituted. Simultaneous exploration with the finger in the vagina and rectum, will ascertain whether the uterus can be felt; and its absence is confirmed by introducing a catheter into the bladder, the finger still remaining in the rectum, to feel that these two organs are in contact, without the uterus intervening as in the natural arrangement of the parts. The point of the instrument can be felt thinly covered through the gut. Sexual desire usually exists an this abnormity. And it has happened that, by fruitless attempts at sexual intercourse, the urethral orifice has become dilated to such an extent as to admit the finger into the bladder. Coitus has even been effected into the expanded urethra, as if into the vagina; and thus the existence of the malformation has remained undiscovered. But it has been shown by Oldham and Routh that the dilatation of the urethra is occasionally a part of the original fault of development. The opera- tion for making a vagina has been described under Atresia of Vagina. (3.) The Ovaries.—Tumours, and Ovarian Dropsy. — Ovarian Tumours are of two kinds, Solid and Gystic. Solid ovarian tumours may be either Fibrous or Cancerous; the latter is most frequently colloid, and of a cystic rather than of a solid character, rarely encephaloid. Gystic ovarian tumours comprise: shnple cysts, with fluid contents, and single or multiple; proliferous cysts, having colloid contents, or solid growths. These vai-ieties of cysts are less often met with inde- pendently, but as associated in the same tumour ; which thus presents the characters of a compound tumour. The activity of proliferous tendency is an indication of the affinity of the tumour to cancer growth. Dermoid Cysts are not included in the above forms of ovarian dis- ease. These peculiar cysts contain all the appendages of the skin: hair, teeth, etc., and fatty secretion. Both ovaries are equally liable to cystic disease. Of seventy-five cases collected by Dr. West—nineteen of his own cases, fifteen of Dr. R. Lee's, and forty-one of Scanzoni's— in about one-third both organs wei'e affected. It is usually believed that the right ovary is more commonly affected than the left. Simple cysts not seldom form in the broad ligaments, quite apart from the ovaries.