768 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGKRY. or its total capacity may be thus much increased. Rupture of this organ may have happened, though very rarely. Sometimes, it takes place in consequence of a small pin-hole aperture of ulceration in the mucous membrane of one of the sacculi. The ureters have undergone dilatation by the tendency to reflux of urine, and the pelvis of these tabes may thus be found much enlarged; while the kidneys are more or less degenerated and atrophied in their pyramidal and cortical portions, resulting perhaps in sacculated remnant kidneys, or in the formation of mere bags or cysts. Sometimes these organs are beset with multiple abscesses, as the result of pyelitis or nephritis from the backward irritation of prolonged retention. Hence the suppression of urinary secretion, with ursemic blood-poisoning. Treatment.—The object of treatment is twofold : to restore the urethral canal to its natural calibre, and to maintain that state of patency. But for the accomplishment of this object, different modes of treatment are necessary according to the various states of stricture; its degree of contraction and induration or dilatability, its sensitiveness and proneness to disturbance of the nervous system, its contractility and disposition to return. All the modes of treatment may be re- duced to four: (1) Gradual Mechanical Dilatation; (2) Immediate and Forcible Dilatation, or Rupture; (3) Caustics; (4) Division of the Stricture, either by internal urethrotomy, or by external urethro- tomy,—usually perineal section. (jRADUAL Mechanical Dilatation,—inducing absorption of the plastic deposit around the seat of stricture. This method of treat- ment is most generally applicable; the other methods being resorted to when it proves ineffective, or when it is contra-indicated by one of the adverse states of stricture above mentioned. The instruments used for gradual dilatation are catheters and bougies,—inflexible, or flexible and elastic; and always of gradually increasing size. The selection of an appropriate instrument, in respect to its material, terminal shape, size, and curve, if an inflexible instrument, will depend on the degree of contraction and the situation of the stricture; both these points having been determined by urethral explo- ration with a catheter or bougie, as already explained in completing the diagnosis of stricture. A catheter is generally preferable for that purpose; as not unfrequently the patient first seeks relief when suffering from an attack of retention, and the Surgeon having suc- ceeded in getting an instrument into the bladder, may be very glad to leave it there. Hence, also, a catheter is generally most suitable m the commencement of treatment. The introduction of a catheter may be performed in either of the two ways already described, and according to the directions given. An instrument of such size only should be used as shall be found to enter the stricture easily, and can pass fairly throtigh it without feeling tightly held by the contraction. Dilatation is then effected by leaving the instrument in this contracted portion of the canal; so as to continue the slight expansion, and induce absorption of the plastic deposit in the mucous and submucous tissues forming the stricture. The proper period for maintaining the dilatation is, in my judgment, about five minutes,—some say twenty minutes; then the instrunaent should be withdrawn, and its size or number noted as a standard oi