SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 8G4 Fig. 9G8.* Especial care must bo taken to prevent any of the ovarian fluid escaping into the abdominal cavity; and a long vulcanized india-rubber tube fitted to the cannula will be the best safeguard. A little alteration of the patient's position, on to her side, and some compression of the abdomen, may prove advantageous in emptying the cyst. If there be no adhesions, the tumour is now seized with a strono- vulsellum and easily drawn out, as a bag, through the abdominal aper^ ture; an assistant or two at the same time following up and closino- the wound around the pedicle, so as to prevent any escape of the intestines, by handling the wound with strips of flannel wrung out of warm water. If there be any adhesions, or the tumour be solid, the fingers or hand must be passed into the abdominal cavity; the same precaution being taken by the assistants during this manipulation. When the adhesions are slight and situated anteriorly, they are readily separated by passing the hand round the front part of the tumour. When they are firm, deep-seated, and extensive, the operation becomes proportionately difficult and perilous. Fortunately such adhesions are comparatively seldom found posteriorly, or connecting any of the abdominal viscera, except the uterus. These bands should be torn through, and very cautiously, not to injure the attached organ ; their division with the knife being unsafe, on account of the liability to haemorrhage from the vessels which com- monly exist in firm, organized adhesions. If very vascular, they should be secured by fine catgut or silk sutures, and cut off on the cyst side ; or, in extreme cases, a small screw- clamp is passed under them, and separation is then effected by the hot iron. Any risk of laceration of the attached organ, as intes- tine or liver, must, however, be especially avoided; and it will be more proper to cut across and leave the closely adherent portion of cyst-wall, than incur the danger of visceral rupture. The 'pedicle protruding through the ab- dominal incision, as guarded by assistants, the Surgeon proceeds to secure it. This may be effected either by means of a clamp or by ligature. The former is especially applicable when the pedicle is long and narrow; and various modifications in the form of the instrument have been proposed by different ovariotomists, each rejoicing in the perfection of his own clamp. The first was introduced by Hutchinson. The form of clamp devised by Mr. Spencer Wells is now generally employed. The two blades, compressing the pedicle, are fixed by a screw (Fig. 968) ; and then the handles are detached, leaving a small, light instrument in connection with the wound. Ligature will be more appropriate when the pedicle is short and thick, whereby the clamp would be drawn inwards to the * Ovarian clamp, with clenching forceps. (Spencer Wells.)