RECURRENCE OF STONE. 713 may render it inaccessible; as wlien lodged in a pit behind an enlarged prostate, above the pubes, or encysted anywhere in the walls of the bladder. It may then be almost equally hard to get at in either opera- tion. A single stone is more suited than several calculi to the per- formance of lithotrity, and of lithotomy also. But the time necessary for the operative procedure of crushing must be taken into account. The presence of several calculi is not unfavourable for the ojieratiou of lithotrity, provided only they be small and soft. Civiale operated with success in a case where the bladder contained forty calculi. The chemical composition of calculi submitted to lithotrity has varied; all kinds of calculi having been crushed, but perhaps chiefly those of uric acid and the urates. Thus, of Sir H. Thompson's cases, 122 were uric acid and the urates; sixteen were mixed; forty phos- phatic; four oxalate of lime ; one pure phosphate of lime ; and one cystic oxide. Lithotomy after Lithotrity.—The propriety of submitting a patient to the double risk of two operations, either of which may be of serious consequence, and which are performed almost in succession, can be sanctioned only by two orders of facts : that the one operation—litho- trity—has given rise to symptoms which render it apparently im- possible to complete this procedure, by repeated sittings, without perilling the patient's life ; and that the other operation—lithotomy— olfers, therefore, the only means of relief, and with less comparative danger. The unfavourable symptoms after lithotrity may relate to the state of the bladder, excessive irritability or contraction forbidding a second use of the lithotrite, especially if, in addition, the stone be of large size and hard consistence, which would necessitate an unusual number of sittings; or, constitutional symptoms of a dangerous cha- racter may have been induced, the nse of the lithotrite having pro- voked some pre-existing organic disease, of the kidney in particular. Under either circumstances, lithotrity should not be repeated, and recourse may be had to lithotomy with advantage. The results of lithotomy as a resource after lithotrity have, on the whole, been encouraging. Of twenty-eight cases by Civiale, nineteen recovered, and nine died. Souberbielle thus operated in twelve cases, with ten recoveries ; the remaining two deaths showing a mortality of one in six, or a not higher proportion than the average death-rate of certain series of lithotomy cases without previous lithotrity. Recurrence of Stone.—After lithotrity, the return of calculus in the bladder is far more frequent than after lithotomy. In Civiale's practice, this has happened about once in every ten cases. Of thirty- six patients on whom he performed lithotrity in 1860, ten had been previously operated on, and stone had returned. But of Sir H. Thompson's 184 second operation for recurrence was performed in only thirteen cases. In no instance, however, was an operation of lithotrity completed by lithotomy. Recurrence must arise from some fragment having remained in the bladder, which formed the nucleus of another calculus. Hence the practical importance of carefully searching the bladder at the last; the final exploration or sounding, to which I have already alluded. If a small fragment can escape detection in such practised hands as Civiale's, less-experienced lithotritists should be far more guarded in completing a case.