SPKCIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 680 Fig. 878. feU- The landmarks of his incision having thus been clearly defined the Surgeon rests his left hand on the right half of the perineum, so as to make the skm on the left side slightly tense ; and indicating with the torefanger the above spot, he plants the lithotomy-knife fn the raphe, or just to the left of it, and carrying the blade in a straight line obliquely downwards and outwards, midway between the anus and tuberosity of the ischium, or somewhat nearer to the latter, terminates the_ incision at a point just below the anus. A//-ee but superficial perineal incision is thus made. (See Fig. 877.) The length of this incision will be from three inches to three and a half, in the adult; its extent varying according to the size of the perineum, and apparent size of the stone. _ The skin, superficial fascia, and fat are divided ; but the depth of the incision, varying according to the perineal obesity, is above rather less than an inch, while below the knife sinks a little more deeply into the ischio-rectal fossa. The upper half of this incision, above the anus, leads to the staff; the lower half, by the side of the anus and below it, facilitates the extraction of the stone. The point of the forefinger of the left hand is now drawn firmly, from the upper angle, along the bottom of the wound, between the left erector penis and accelerator nringe muscle overlying the bulb of the urethra, so as to separate these parts; then, using the finger to protect the rectum, by pressing it somewhat downwards and to the right, any further resisting structures are divided by a slight touch or two with the knife—as in figure. Thus are divided the transversalis perinjei rnuscle and artery, and the base of the deep perineal fascia or triangular ligament of the urethra, which latter sometimes, in elderly persons, presents a tolerably firm bar to the finger. The finger is then directed upwards from the rectum, as a guide to the stafE; the groove of the staff is felt just in front of the prostate, in the membranous portion of the urethra, and as covered therefore with this membranous structure stretching across the groove. By a little compression at this spot, the nail of the finger is lodged fairly in the groove; and then the point of the knife, with the cutting edge downwards, is slid along the finger over the nail, and, penetrating the membranous urethra, is at once inserted into the groove of the staff, and felt to touch the metal, the con- tact with which may be further assured by a slight movement of the point. This relative position of the finger to the knife will se- curely protect the rectum—itself also pressed downwards and to the right; and which, from its proximity beneath the prostate, is especially liable to be wounded at this part of the operation— the commencement of the deep or prostatic incision. The knife is now pushed firmly along the groove of the staff, through the prostatic portion of the urethra and the prostate, with a slight inclination of the blade downwards and outwards (Pig. 878) ; thereby incising or notching the prostate latendhj,