SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 83G Fig. 965. pubes having been shaved on the side of operation, the patient should be drawn to the end of the table; so that resting there on his buttocks the thighs and logs shall hang down, and give fair room for handling the tumour. The Surgeon standing in front, between the patient'! legs, grasps the tumour posteriorly with his left hand, makincr the scrotum tense in front. Then, a bistoury is entered opposite the ex- ternal abdominal ring, in order to reach the cord sufficiently high up that, when it comes to be divided, the cut stump, which is apt to retract, shall be freely accessible for ligature of the vessels. On this account, it may sometimes be advantageous to expose and isolate the cord, before removing the testicle from the scrotum. The incision is carried down longitudinally, from the external ring, over the anterior surface of the tumour to the bottom of the scrotum; or if the mass be of very large size, or the skin afiected, a double elliptical incision may be made, enclosing a portion of the scrotum. It will seldom be requi- site to remove any apparent redundancy of healthy integument, as the scrotal skin contracts and shrivels up very considerably after'the operation. The tumour is readily turned out of the scrotum by a few touches of the knife, dividing its loose cellular connections; on the inner side, the knife should be particularly turned outwards, towards the tumour, in order to avoid puncturing the urethra, or opening the tunica vaginalis of the opposite side. Having detached the testicle and isolated the cord, the latter is seized between the thumb and finger by an assistant, or with a vulsellum, and held in position. (Fig. 965.) The cord is then divided by a stroke of the knife below this point, and the testicle completely removed. The spermatic artery, and probably two or three cremasteric branches, will require ligature. This mode of se- curing the vessels is preferable to tying the whole cord, a practice adopted by some Surgeons. But if there be any fear of retraction of the cord through the ring into the in- guinal canal, it should be ligatured and retained in position by a strip of plaster over the ends of the thread. Scrotal vessels generally cease to bleed by sponging with cold water. Sutures are not required, the edges of the scrotal integument faUing into apposition; and the wound, being dressed with a strip of wet lint, heals by granulation from the bottom. In the after-dressing, bagging in the lower part of the scrotumJ must be prevented. Secondary hiBmorrhage may necessitate a re-j opening of the scrotum, which must then be lightly stuffed with wetl lint. Retraction of the cord into the inguinal canal would render ifcj very difficult to follow up the source of haemorrhage in that situation a and a serious or even fatal loss of blood might take place, by its escape! into the cellular texture of the groin and pelvis, without much externalj hsemorrhage. 1 Atrophy of the Testicle consists in the partial or complete al>^