HiEMOREHOIDS, EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL. 571 their condition as being congested, or constricted loj the sphincter. In an inactive state, and in a relaxed state of the sphincter, they form, softish tumours of a red granular appearance, protruding just at the orifice of the anus ; when fully protruded, tightly constricted, and con- gested, they are large, tense swellings of a deep-red or purple colour, and having a smooth surface, which readily bleeds. Ulceration takes place occasionally, attacking the tumour in many points at once, but advancing seldom to any great extent. Bushe saw an instance of phagediBnic ulceration ; and in two cases, haemorrhage of a florid cha- racter supervened. Mortification and sloughing of the haemorrhoids may result from complete strangulation by the sphincter ; a process of natural cure which sometimes occurs, and, although attended with much suiiering, it is free from any danger of hgemorrhage. . Dr. Bushe mentions having seen a fatal result in one case out of four which he had met with. When the ha3morrhoids are of large size, and fully protruded, the integument at the margin of the anus becomes everted, and forms a broad band girting the base of the tumours externally. The skin, thus everted, swollen, irregular, and of a livid colour, is liable to be mis- taken for external piles; but its excision in an operation would pro- bably be followed by serious contraction of the anus. External and internal piles often do coexist; but then the sphincter, covered by integument, usually forms a narrow band separating the two. When, as sometimes follows, the two forms merge into each other, their differ- ence may be recognized by the character of the integument—skin or mucous membrane—at the line of junction; though I have seen thia difference disappear in oft-protruded piles, as the mucous membrane by frequent exposure acquired the character of skin. Another method of distinction is to gently return the protruded part, requesting the patient, at the same time, to draw up and thus retract the bowel; whatever portion then remains outside is external pile, the reduced portion being internal pOe. Inflammation of internal piles is apt to be induced by the irritation- of a costive motion, a brisk cathartic, a slight excess of wine, or irregu- larity of diet; producing what is called an "attack of piles." Their inflammatory swelling is attended with a sensation of heat, weighty and fulness, just within the rectum; difficulty and pain in passing a motion, and distressing irritability of the bladder. Pain of a dull aching character may be felt in the loins and down the thighs, leading- to the supposition in females that the womb is affected. Febrile con- stitutional disturbance is often severe. Then protrusion takes place at the anus, in the act of seeking relief by stool, or in straining ta empty the bladder; the- extruded haemorrhoids become constricted by the sphincter, and the congestion which results from strangulation of the acutely sensitive inflamed piles, entails yet further suffering. HcBinorrhage is liable to occur, before or after protrusion, and may bring speedy but temporary relief, the piles subsiding; and this- natural blood-letting has been regarded as a salutary vent or safeguard in persons having an- apoplectic tendency, or disposed to other visceral- congestions. But the quantity of blood lost through internal haemor- rhoids varies considerably, from two or three tablespoonfuls to several ounces or pints; and thus the patient's general health may be seriously reduced by oft-recurring attacks, aided by the almost incessant miico-