487 STRANGULATED HERNIA. twenty-four hours, the bowel may be killed by manual pressure, or cut by pressure against the hernial aperture. In eitlier case, the entire calibre of the bowel becomes divided, at length forming an artificial anus- or death takes place in consequence of feculent extravasation 1 backwards into the abdomen. After the expiration of twenty-four ; hours, the softened state of the bowel wUl probably cause it to yield under any violent or prolonged use of the taxis. Rupture usually , occurs at the convex border of the gut, at the furthest point from ' the mesentery, and the rent is in the direction of the circular muscular fibres. The signs of burst bowel are very significant. If an enterocele, the bowel glides away from the pressure of the finger and the tumour disappears. But this apparent reduction is not accompanied with that sadden and peculiar gurgling subsidence which attends the return of an unburst bowel into the abdomen. The patient immediately complains ; of intense pain in the abdomen, vomiting ceases, succeeded however i by retching and hiccup, with utter collapse and death. Sometimes, ' inflammation and suppuration take place in the sac, and extending • through its coverings, the abscess bursts, forming a fistulous communi- . cation" with the interior of the intestine. Some haemorrhage into the - sac may also have been caused by the violence of compression, pro- ducing a mixture of blood and coagula with the flakes of lymph and pns which result from inflammation. The hernial sac is subject to two forms of injury : displacement, and 1 laceration or rupture. Both may happen together, and almost necessarily in connection with considerable force. By displacement, the sac is detached, to a greater or less extent, from 1 the surrounding textures. This injury occurs usually in inguinal ' hernia. The neck of the sac is more frequently affected than any other ■ portion. It becomes detached from the inner surface of the internal : abdominal fasciae, and carrying with it • the surrounding portion of parietal peri- ■ toneum, a pouch is thus formed within the fascial membrane of the abdomen ; : into which the hernia may be forced, : and being retained therein, is lost to touch and sight. (Fig. 781.) Sir Charles Bell recorded another case of injury, in ■ the "London Medical Gazette," 1828. The entire hernial tumour may be pushed into the abdomen, in a mass; the tumour disappearing, whilst the contents are still strangulated by the mouth of the sac. This injury—first described by Le Dran, as "reduction en bloc"—is of rare occurrence. * Eoy. Coll. Surg. Mus. 1293. Eeduction era hloc of a left inguinal hernia; the intestine remaining tightly strangulated by the neck of the sac. It lies on the outer side of the internal ring, between the abdominal and iliac muscles and the peritoneum; part of it being below the crural arch, and extending outwards nearly to the e.Kternal iliac vessels. The sac, thus forming a large tumom- pro- jecting inwards towards the abdominal cavity, was not visible externally. The patient, a man aged fifty-three, had been the subject of inguinal hernia for years, without inconvenience, having always worn a truss ; after having become tense and painful, the hernia was completely reduced, but the symptoms of strangulation increased, and terminated in death on the fifteenth day. (ilohn Taunton.) Fig. 781.* I