UMBILICAL HERNIA. 537 Comparative Bstvmate of Inguinal and Femoral Hernia.—Thefollow- ino- conclusions seem to be established by Mr. Bryant's analysis of 126 fatal cases of Hernia:— That ingidnal hernia is more common than femoral; commences earlier in life; is less liable to strangulation on its first descent, a,nd generally exists twenty years before it becomes so; requires operation less frequently, but is more fatal; is less often associated with gangre- nous bowel, but more commonly with ulceration at the line of stricture. That femoral hernia is less common than inguinal; seldom appears before fifty years of age; is more frequently strangulated on its first descent, but generally averages eleven years' existence; more frequently requires operation, but is less fatal, and is generally strangulated for a lono-er period before being relieved; after operation, is more often followed by sinking, and by gangrenous bowel and artificial anus ; but is less commonly associated with ulceration at the line of stricture and faecal extravasation, unless from rupture by the taxis, an event which is more liable to happen. Umbilical Hernia.—Exomphalos or Omphalocele, as umbilical hernia is also sometimes called, signifies a visceral protrusion through the um- bilical aperture; in common language, ruptured navel. The course of the protrusion, in this kind of hernia, is straight through the abdominal wall. The hernial sac is always an acquired extension of the peritoneum, there being no process analogous to the inguinal vaginal process of this membrane. Yet umbiKcal hernia is sometimes described as of two varieties : the congenital, with reference to its formation in infants from birth; and the acquired variety, which is developed in adults. In the one condition of hernia, the protrusion passes through the umbilical aperture, either before the cord is detached, or before that aperture has closed; in the condition of later or adult life, an aperture is formed by a separation of the fibres of the linea alba at the formerly closed um- bilical ring or an immediately adjoining part, in consequence of its having stretched or yielded before the protrusion from within. The anatomical coverings of umbilical hernia are those of the abdominal wall, at the umbilical aperture. Taken from within out- wards, in the order of hernial development, they are successively—a pouch of parietal peri- toneum or the hernial sac, with subperitoneal cellular tissue containing fat, and the fascia transversal is, then a prolongation from the tendinous margin of the aperture, the super- ficial fascia, and skin. (Fig. 816.) Before the separation of the umbilical cord, the protrusion may pass through the navel-opening, directly into the substance of the cord, which thus forms a peculiar covering to the hernia. In a suddenly produced umbilical hernia, the peritoneal investment may be partly deficient, apparently from rupture in the intervals of the finely fibrous reticulated appearance which the peritoneum here naturally presents; the covering derived from the tendon of the ex- * Eoy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 1356 a.