SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 124 This amputation above, or at least through, the condyles, seems to have been first performed by Mr. Syme, 1845; but it was brought more prominently into notice by Mr. Garden, in ]864<; and Gritti introduced the additional section of the patella. The artificial leg constructed by Blaise is specially suitable to the stump formed by amputation, whether at the knee-joint or supra- condyloid. Certain conditions are relatively appropriate for these two amputa- tions, which, from Mr. Pollock's analysis of ninety-three cases in this country and America, may be thus stated :—1st. If there be no disease of the knee-joint, but, from disease or accident, amputation of the leg be requisite, it may be performed at the joint, without interference with the articular surfaces of the femur or patella. 2nd. If there be disease of the joint, resulting in ulceration of the cartilages, amputa- tion should be completed by removal of the condyles of the femur, and the articular surface of the patella, or the whole of that bone. The advantages of both these amputations at or just above the knee-joint, as compared with removal of the limb higher up, are three. They relate to the results of operation, both in regard ta the mortality and the kind of stump. Results.—Of 49 cases of amputation at the knee-joint, collected by Dr. Markoe, 17 were fatal; being a mortality of 37 per cent., or about half the percentage, 64, of amputation in the thigh, during the American War. But in that war the death-x-ate was 55 per cent, after amputation at the knee-joint. Of the 93 cases in the series by Mr. Pollock, 48 were collected by special returns from the Metropolitan Hospitals, of which 13 were fatal; and the remaining 45 cases, all of which occurred in America, and were gathered by Dr. Brinton, of Philadelphia, gave an equal mortality—13. Thus, the total mortality in 93 cases was 26, or a death-rate of 27'97. In the series of 60 cases collected by Mr. James Lane, 21 were fatal, showing a death-rate of 35'0. As compared with amputation in the thigh, in a total of 1346 cases, 560 were fatal, or a death-rate of 41 "60. The results of supra-condyloid amputation, in relation to its mor- tality, have not yet been indicated by statistics sufficiently extensive. Of 31 cases of Garden's amputation through the condyles, only 5 were fatal. Like the operation at the joint, it may fairly be inferred that this operation also is far less fatal than amputation in the thigh, there being less shock, less liability to suppuration, less risk of necrosis, and of osteo-myelitis ; the medullary canal of the femur not being opened, in the two former amputations. The results with regard to the stuvip are certainly very advantageous; a long stump is provided for the adaptation, and more convenient use, of an artificial limb; and after the operation with a long anterior flap, the end of the stump is well covered by integument, and thus protected from the risk of excori- ation from pressure, as the cicatrix lies altogether behind the surface. Amputation of the Thigh.—An assistant compresses the femoral artery, and another, sitting on a stool, holds the leg so that the thigh shall be horizontal, and project from the buttock over the edge of a table. The Surgeon with his left hand lays hold of the fleshy part of the thigh in front of the bone, and raises it a little; then, introducing a loncr-bladed amputating knife just in front of the femur and trans- fixing'' the thigh, an anterior flap is made by cutting downwards and