138 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. trophy IS wrongly applied when it is used to signify excess in quantity; excess of growth from hypernutrition is its more correct signi6cation. _ Instead of a starved condition of the skin, such as occurs in ichthyosis, an actual hypernutrition or hypertrophy of tissues is met with, in warts; and likewise in angioma or vascular niBvus, where a congeries of capillaries forms a stratum or tumour of variable extent. Another form of aberration of nutrition is illustrated by the increment of connective tissue and condensed fibrous tissue in the skin—in the former instance giving rise to soft connective-tissue tumours, called molluscum; and in the latter to cheloides and scleroderma. In the former of these cases the tendency is to the accumulation of fibrous tissue in mass, and in the latter to the substitution of white fibrous tissue for the more highly organized structures, inducing, in fact, an atrophy, and giving the affected part the appearance and character of a cicatrix. Aberration of nutrition is also shown in those small pigmentary masses, termed xanthoma; in those masses in which black pigment prevails, melanoma; in substitutions of epitheloid for the normal tissues, epithelioma; and in accumulations within the substance of the skin of lymph-cells, constituting lymphadenoma. The innervation of the skin, represented by the nervous system, presents us with aberration of function, in the form of excess and diminution and of perverted sensation. A highly wrought sensitiveness not unfrequently comes before us; more commonly it is the opposite condition that occurs. Both of these states are present in elepharttiasis. And then we have perverted sensation in prurigo and pruritus; the former indicating a confirmed disturbance of the whole nervous system, the latter a temporary irritation—sometimes reflex, as in urticaria; and sometimes local, as in eczema. Convenience has suggested the consideration of the appendages of the skin under a separate head, in order to avoid disturbing the consecutive character of the pathological phenomena of the skin in a state of disease. But even in the case of the appendages we shaU. have to revert to our previous arrangement. One while the disorders of the appendages will be found to be referable to ordinary inflamma- tion, another while to modified inflammation, and thirdly to aberration of nutritive function. This will be obvious when enumerating the cutaneous appendages ; for example, the cuticle and nails, the hair and hair follicles, and the glandular system of the skin, sebaceous and sudoriparous. The diseases of the epidermis, besides variations in quantity and quality of horny material, are manifested by changes of colour and texture; pigmentary alterations of the skin are due to aberration of function of the rete mucosum; while a peculiar state of proliferation of the cell-elements of the mucous layer is by some authors regarded as a vegetable fungus of parasitic origin. Under the head of dis- colouration or dyschroma, we range melasma, chloasma, ephelis, lentigo, and achroma; whereas the so-called fungus-affection has received the name of phytosis, which expresses the pathological change, and of pityriasis versicolor, which alludes to a kind of desquamation with which one of its forms is accompanied, and to a pigmentary dis- colouration. The nails may be diseased in relation to the vascular skin in which