SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 694 confirmed by the frequency with which the bulb has been wounded with impunity. But the accident has given rise to phlebitis and pyaemia. (4.) Missing the urethra, and entering the bladder beyo7id theprostate, allows of infiltration of urine into the pelvic cellular tissue. Diffuse inflammation and death will almost necessarily follow. Yet this fatal accident has occurred, once in a way, to the most skilled lithotomists. To avoid it, the nail of the left forefinger should be lodged fairly in the groove of the staff, before planting the point of the knife over the nail. (5.) Penetration of the posterior part of the bladder is liable to occur from passing the knife too deeply along the groove of the staff; the point may slip out and penetrate the posterior wall of the bladder. Hence the advantage of the button-headed bistoury. An insufficiently injected bladder would be more exposed to this accident. I have never yet known it to happen, although I have heard of such a case. In children, the accidents specially incident to lateral lithotomy have been fully considered in describing the operation as pei'formed before puberty or at an earlier period of life. After-Treatment.—When no accident has occurred during the operation, the treatment after lateral lithotomy is simple. The patient is placed on his back in bed, with his legs apart and the knees some- what raised on pillows. The urine will thus drain away through the wound, as it is secreted, preventing the chance of urinary infiltration. A draw-sheet, covered with mackintosh cloth, having been previously placed under the buttocks, will enable the nurse to keep the patient clean and dry without altering his position. No dressing is required ; a sponge or small spittoon-pot is placed under the wound against the nates, to catch the urine as it drops. If Listen's gum-elastic tube has been passed up the wound into the bladder, and there retained by perineal tapes, this channel can be kept free from coagula and open for the distillation of the urine, by occasionally introducing an oiled feather. When I was a student, this precaution was observed so diligently, that the dresser in attendance sat by the patient's bed-side, the night after operation, for the purpose of thus freeing the tube. It was retained for about twenty-four hours in a child, and about forty-eight hours in an adult. By that time its retention was thought unnecessary ; the sides of the wound having become glazed over with lymph, whereby the risk of infiltration will have ceased. An opiate should be given, and repeated when necessaiy, to secure sleep, or at least quiescence; and diluent drinks allowed plentifully, with light fluid food, as milk, arrow-root, or beef-tea, during the first three or four days. In an elderly person, it may be requisite to soon have recourse to stimulants. Hetention of urine sometimes occurs, and must be instantly relieved by passing a gum-elastic catheter or the finger up the wound to the neck of the bladder. Warm fomentations and opiates will then allay pain and irritation. About the fourth or fifth day, the urine may suddenly cease to escape thi'ough the wound, and be discharged through the urethra ;—the patient " wets," as nurses are accustomed to understand it. This, however, seems due to a temporary turgescence in the wound, resulting from inflammatory swelling which occludes the outlet; sub- siding in a day or two, the urine again escapes by the wound. The same temporary discharge of urine through the natural passage may happen at an earlier period,—within twenty-four hours after operation.