INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE PENIS. 797 wound, or independently—the urethra alone being cut or penetrated. And the wound may be partial or complete division of the urethra. _ The signs are—the escape of blood from the meatus, or in micturi- tion —bloody urine; and escape of urine from the urethral wound. In the ante-scrotal portion of the penis, the wound is easily discovered on examination. , , ,i i. Treatment consists in at once passing a gum-elastic catheter through the external meatus into the bladder, and retaining the instrument; the edges of the wound can then be brought together over the mstru- ment by fine strips of plaster or a point or two of suture. Laceration of the urethra is specially apt to happen m connection with fracture of the pubic rami, or from external violence, as a kick in the perineum, or a fall astride a girder or the edge of a plank of wood The membranous urethra is here the seat of injury ; and the laceration may be partial or complete, the nrethra being torn partly or entirely across. There is also more or less perineal ecchymosis or ^^^"certain signs are distinctive of laceration. Urethral hemorrhage or bloody urine appear as from wound ; but the effort of micturition is accompanied with a deep burning pain, and symptoms of urinary extravasation, commencing in the perineum, rapidly supervene. If laceration be complete, there is inability to pass urine, and extrava- sation proceeds with greater rapidity. This condition may terminate in urinary fistula. Treatment is essentially the same as in wound of the urethra. A catheter should be at once passed, to allow of urethral reparation, and, in the case of laceration, to prevent the extravasation of urine which cannot here escape by an external wound. With comijlete laceration of the urethra, it may be very difficult or impossible to pass a catheter. Having, therefore, introduced the instrument as far as it will go, a free incision should be made in the middle line upon the point of the catheter, which can then probably be passed onwards into the bladder. Or, at least, an outlet is thus provided for the urine. If, with this precaution, retention ensues, puncture of the bladder through the rectum may be justifiably resorted to. Extravasation of urine, or perhaps urinary fistula, as the result of urethral laceration, must be treated as already explained with reference to these conditions. Diseases.—Balanitis.—Inflammation of the thin mucous mem- brane of the prepuce and glans penis is attended with some redness and smarting, and a profuse, thin, opalescent, muco-purulent discharge, with some infiltration of the prepuce bordering on phimosis. Excoria- tion is apt to occur. When the mucous membrane of the glans is specially affected, the inflammation is known as Posthitis. The pre- puce is not unfrequently long and redundant, a condition which seems to predispose to Balanitis. This inflammatory affection is usually the result of local irritation ; from gonorrhoeal discharge frequently, and hence named " external" gonorrhoea, or simply from want of cleanliness; but it also arises in young and delicate boys, from disordered health, and during hot weather. The treatment is chiefly topical; a slightly astringent wash, as lead lotion or lime water, or slight pencilling with nitrate of silver, especially