162 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. chemical examination. Thus, in a boy with fractured base of the skull, a small quantity of thin, clear fluid was oozing from his ear ; but Mr. Hilton found that a much greater quantity could be made to escape, by artificially inducing congestion of the cerebral circulation. By pressure upon the jugular veins, and with the other hand closing the patient's mouth and nose, so as to stop respiration, in a few- moments the fluid began to flow much more rapidly, and half an ounce of it was soon collected. Then again, fracture of the base of the skull after death, in an experiment by M. Eobert, immediately pro- duced a discharge of the fluid from the ear, and which became abun- dant and continuous when the head was hung over the edge of the table. The chemical composition of this discharge has been shown by M. Chatin to be the same as that of the cerebro-spinal fluid; it contains a small quantity of albumen, and a large proportion of chloride of sodium. M. Claude Bernard has also shown that both fluids contain a trace of sugar. The serous discharge may not be coagulable by heat or by nitric acid, owing to the small proportion of albumen present; but some cloudiness, or whitish opacity, may be thus produced. To permit the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid from the subarachnoid space, the arachnoid membrane must have been torn, in conjunction with the fracture, and near the outlet. Thus, as M. Auguste Berard observed, when this fluid issues from the ear, the reflection of the arachnoid around the auditory nerve, in the internal auditory canal, must have been ruptured ; when the nose is the channel of escape, the arachnoid prolongations around the filaments of the olfactory nerves must have been involved, in fracture of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Both the ear and nose, at the same time, sometimes give issue to this fluid; two cases of this kind having been met with by Malgaigne and Foucard. The pia mater is the source of re- secretion of the fluid discharged. The quantity of this serous discharge is usually abundant; although dropping only or trickling from the ear or nose, it has amounted to twenty ounces in the course of three days; and it often continues for a longer period. Experiments on animals have shown how rapidly the cerebro-spinal fluid is re-secreted. This discharge does not occur only in young persons, with basial fracture of the skull, as Robert and others believed; but more often in patients above twenty-five or thirty years of age. The fall of temperature in fracture of the base is sometimes remark- able. In one case, with laceration of the brain, under the care of Mr. Le Gros Clark, the temperature fell to 8 7'4 degrees in one hour and a half after the injury; this being the lowest temperature observed after any injury, as hitherto recorded. Death ensued in nine hours, the temperature having risen barely to 90 degrees just before death. Causes, and their Effects.—Indirect violence is almost invariably the only cause of fractures of the cranium, in its base. A heavy blow, or fall, on the top of the head, is commonly the cause; but a fall, the person alighting on his feet or the buttocks, may be another mode of indirect violence. In either case, the cranium is compressed between two forces, the force of collision on the vertex and that of resistance by the apex of the spinal column; or the latter may be driven inwards, and the top of the head downwards, as in the case of a person falling on his feet.