HYDROCELE. 813 loss of balance between secretion and absorption. This change seems to be dependent on long-continued irritation, and often arises from a blow or other external violence. One of the largest hydroceles I ever knew was produced by a blow from a cricket-ball. Inflammation may also be induced in like manner; giving rise to hydrocele, and an effusion of lymph mixed with the serous fluid. Hydrocele occurs most frequently about middle life, and in persons of a weakly constitution, or an enfeebled state of health. Treatment.—Arrest of the secretion, and resorption of the serous fluid, cannot be induced by any known medicinal treatment, topical or constitutional. In this respect, hydrocele resembles similar effusions in hydrocephalus, hydrothorax, hydrops articuli, etc. The treatment adopted may be Palliative, by tapping ; or Curative, by tapping, and the injection of some stimulating fluid to induce in- flammation or inflammatory adhesion ; or, as a last resource, by the introduction of a seton for the same purpose. Palliative Treatment.—Tapping a hydrocele is performed by means of a fine trocar and cannula, in the following manner. The Surgeon having ascertained the position of the testis, usually at the lower and back part of the scrotum, he grasps the posterior part of the tumour so as to make tense the skin in front; then, selecting a spot about the middle of the projecting surface, and in an interspace between the veins, he thrusts a fine trocar and cannula in a perpendicular direction ' I'ig- 9i4. backwards into the hydrocele, taking care not to push the instrument so far back as to wound the testicle, when the hydrocele-sac yields sud- denly before the point of the trocar. (Fig. 944.) The object of thus avoid- ing the veins, and of directly trans- fixing the skin and sac of the hydro- cele, is to prevent any effusion of blood into the intervening cellular tissue, which might lead to slough- ing ; while the testicle is avoided by observing the precautions in handHng the tumour, and as to the limited depth of the instrument. On with- drawing the trocar, the fluid is drawn off through the cannula, which is then itself withdrawn, and the punc- ture-spot covered, if necessary, with a small piece of plaster. The relief afforded by this procedure is, usually, only temporary; the fluid is almost certain to re-accumulate in the course of a few months. Tapping may then be repeated, and on several subsequent occasions, whenever requisite to relieve the weight and inconvenience of the hydrocele. In healthy subjects and small hydroceles, palliative treatment, by a single or repeated tapping, sometimes proves a radical cure. G'lirative Treatment.—This may be effected by means of a stimu- lating injection, or by the introduction of a seton. Injection.—Tapping having been performed as already described, some stimulating fluid is injected through the cannula by means of a