INJURIES OF ABDOBIINAL PARIETES, AND VISCERA. 461 condition is a visceral implication of dangerous character; tlie latter condition is positively perilous. Both owe their vital sigmficance to the great risk of peritonitis; any extravasation of blood or the contents of certain viscera increasing this liability. Protrusion of the stomach, intestine, mesentery or omentum may be recognized by the appearances of the protruded mass. Its size is always large as compared with the aperture from which xt emerges; and the mtrgi^ of the opening constricting the protruded portion of vScus, a neck or peduncle is formed, which is overlaid and concealed by the mass. The aperture and peduncle can be easily discovered by gently raising the protrusion with the fingers. At first of a bright red folour and glistening peritoneal aspect, the mass soon becomes dull looking and purple from congestion, and afterwards black and flaccid as gangrene supervenes. , -, i o j; j; „„i Wound of a protruded intestine is denoted by the escape of f^cal matter and flatus ; the characters of the wound also are peculiar and vary according to its size. A puncture, or an incision two or three Unes in length, is attended with eversion or prolapsus of the mucous membrane ; which, closing the aperture, prevents the escape of feculent matter. An incision beyond four lines in length evinces some ten- dency to protrusion of the mucous membrane m the form of a lip over the margin of tbe cut; but thus allowing tlie discharge of feculent Consequences, and Prognosis.—All injuries of the Abdomen impli- catino- the viscera, whether by Rupture or Wound, are apt m some deo-ree, to be followed by Peritonitis. Penetrating Wounds of the abdominal cavity have also this liability. But if imphc^itmg the stomach or intestine, in particular, the risk is greater; and if attended with the escape of the contents of these viscera into the peritoneal cavity, the danger reaches its maximum. On the other band, all such injuries have a notable tendency to reparation, by primary adhesive union, and without the extravasation of intestinal or other matter. Certain remarkable cases of such reparation are on record. Thus, John Bell refers to the case of an extensive lacerated opening of the ab- domen, in the person of a peasant boy who had been gored by a bull. The intestines—nnwounded—protruded, and were replaced. _ The poor lad came the next day on foot three miles from his village, carrying in the skirts of his shirt, and in his hands, a great bundle of intestines whicb had again protruded; they were again returned, the wound was neatly sewed, and the patient recovered. A madman stabbed himself with eighteen deep wounds in the abdomen, with a long and sharp-pointed knife; eight of the wounds penetrated the cavity of the abdomen, and touched the stomach and intestines, as shown by the vomiting of blood and its passage by stool. Yet the man entirely recovered in two short months. In another paroxysm of madness, eighteen months afterwards, he threw himself from a high window and died upon the spot. Post-mortem examination revealed the im- portant series of facts;—that the liver, having been wounded, had adhered in its middle lobe to the inner surface of the peritoneum ;