SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. r -lation to the use of the knife in the perineal wound, the groove of tlie stafl in the membranous urethra, the prostatic urethra and bladder • followed by the forceps, used alternately with the finger in the bladder' ihe textures are divided downwards and outwards, away from the rectum by lateralized incisions; and they together form an oblique conoidal wound, having its base externally m the perineum, and the apex m the prostate. In the limited extent of the prostatic incision the operation differs essentially from that of the earlier lithotomists' —Frere Jacques, Cheselden, Desault, or as performed by Klein, John Bill, Martineau, Come, Souberbielle, Langenbeck, Gutteridge, and other most successful operators, all of whom made, or still practise, a free prostatic incision, extending even through the neck of the bladder; but the limited incision has been strenuously advocated by Pierre Franco^ Le Oat, Scarpa, Dupuytren, Callisen, Sir A. Cooper, Sir B. Brodie' Crosse of Norwich, Key, Stanley, Coulson, Syme, Sir W. Fergusson, Spence, and by the most experienced modern lithotomists in this country, supported by Dr. Gross, and other eminent American Surgeons. Position^ of the Hand and Knife.—Much difference of opinion has been held in surgical works of authority, and different delineations have been given, as to the manner of holding the knife in lateral lithotomy. I specially allude to this question on that account alone, and not because of its intrinsic importance. So long as the proper incisions are observed, both with regard to their situation, direction, and extent, it can be of little consequence how the knife is held in executing them. The Surgeon will best accomplish the object he has in view in the manner most convenient to the movement of his own hand; a matter of personal experience, which must necessarily vary with the shape and mobility of this member in different operators. In making the superficial or perineal incision, the knife is generally held mider the hand; and in making the deep or prostatic incision, this position is still maintained by most lithotomists. Listen, however, would appear to have held the knife ahove the hand in making the latter incision, as depicted in Fig. 878; a representation of the position of the hands and knife, at the commencement of the second incision, (or through the prostate—Author), as shown " in a very correct sketch of the viscera of the pelvis, with their relative size and position; and which has been copied more than once without acknowledgment" (Fourth Edition, 1846, p. 509). But, notwithstanding this record by Mr. Liston on the point in question, as an old Hospital pupil, having enjoyed unusual and repeated opportunities of witnessing the opera- tions of the great lithotomist, I can corroborate the statements of Sir W. Fergusson, and Mr. Cadge, of Norwich, that Mr. Liston held the knife ^(^erhand; and I particularly well remember also that, in entering the point of the knife into the groove of the staff, his fingers were enclosed around the blade, apparently to cover the edge, and fit the point into the groove securely—the instrument being then sent forward from the palm of the hand. Cutting on a Straight Staff.—This mode of performing the lateral operation was originated by Aston Key, at Guy's Hospital, where it is still practised, and by other Surgeons. The curved staff, as a director for the knife, is ill adapted in its form to guide the point with safety, just where the use of the instrument becomes requisite, in making the prostatic incision. This disadvantage may be overcome by cutting on a