815 HYDROCELE. The results o£ iodine injection have been very satisfactory, both as regards its safety and success in the cure of hydrocele. It excites in- flammation of a modei'afce and uniform degree, rarely very severe, yet generally sufficient for the purpose. The proportion of failures has been variously estimated ; in India, where iodine injection was origin- ally introduced by Sir R. Martin, the failures scarcely amount to one per cent.; in France, Velpeau calculates them at three per cent. In this country it has also proved very successful. Seton.—The cure by the passage of a seton should be reserved ex- clusively for the few cases wherein injection has failed. After tapping the hydrocele, a long needle, armed with a seton of silk, is passed up the cannula and drawn through the upper part of the scrotum; then the cannula is removed, the needle cut off, and the thread knotted loosely. This is allowed to remain until sufficient inflammatory effusion has been excited ; usually, in a period varying from twenty- four to thirty hours, but sometimes extending to ten or twelve days. Little inflammation may have ensued, yet a radical cure may result. But intense orchitis and prolonged suppurative discharge from the tunica vaginalis are not unfrequently induced by this method of treatment, and my experience of it is very unfavourable. The radical cure—whether by injection or seton—should be practised only under certain circumstances, with regard to the size of the hydrocele and the patient's state of health or age. These j)re- cautions are necessary in relation to the safety and efficiency of the radical cure. Large hydroceles—one, for example, containing a quart of fluid— should not be injected ; the consequent inflammation of so large a sac might prove overwhelming and terminate fatally. Such a hydrocele may be tapped; and in a short time emptied again, when the sac has become contracted; then this smaller-sized sac can be safely and effectually injected. An enfeebled state of health, or persons advanced in life, should not be subjected to the risk incurred by injection. Tapping may be resorted to as occasion requires. Congenital Hydrocele presents a few points of importance with regard to its diagnosis and treatment. The vaginal process of peritoneum remaining open, as a tubula;r prolongation communicating with the general peritoneal cavity, this condition of^ the hydrocelic sac gives rise to certain characters, which distinguish it from ordinary hydrocele and from scrotal hernia. The serous fluid accumulated in the sac can be returned by pressure into the abdomen, especially in the recumbent position; and the sac gradu- ally refills again, when the pressure is removed from the external abdominal ring and the patient stands up. In both these respects, congenital hydrocele essentially differs from common hydrocele. But it resembles hernia. This may, however, be distinguished by its opacity; and in the non-congenital form of hernia, by the more per- ceptible presence of the testicle at the lower part of the scrotum Treatment.—Eepressive measures, by cold lotions and mild aperients, may sometimes cause the swelling to subside. When repression fails, the hydrocele should be emptied of its contents into the abdomen, by pntly compressmg the scrotum on the affected side, and a truss appKed to the external ring, as for inguinal hernia. The process of peritoneum may now undergo contraction and become obliterated: thus reducina-