DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 193 Deficiency of the eyelids may occur from wounds or cicatricial con- traction. But the loss of substance will sometimes admit of repair by plastic operations ; a suitable portion of skin being transplanted from an adjoining part, either by twisting round or gliding forwards the requisite integumental covering. Thus, for the repair of the upper eyelid, a flap may be borrowed from the forehead ; for the lower eye- lid, from the cheek. (10.) Kctre Eye—Lagaphthalmos—^is an open state of the eye, arising from various causes. Structural conditions, as the contraction of a cicatrix, resemble ectropion ; and are amenable to the same treatment. Paralysis of the orbicularis muscle, from various conditions affecting the facial trunk of the seventh nerve or portio dura, allows the levator palpebrae to act unopposed, and thus keeps the eye open. Exposure to cold may have this paralyzing effect temporarily ; or it may depend on some more centric and permanent cause, as a tumour in the course of the nerve, disease of the petrous portion of the temporal bone trans- mitting the nerve, or upon congestion of the brain. The treatment will be guided entirely by the apparent cause. Tem- porary paralysis may be relieved by derivation—a blister behind the i ear. (11.) Ptosis is a dropping of the upper lid, owing to paralysis of the t third, or motor-oculi, nerve; the eye itself is abducted, the pupil dilated ; and fixed, and vision somewhat impaired with crossed diplopia. The 1 eyelid is smooth and unwrinkled, and the forehead furrowed by the 1 frequent action of the occipito-frontalis muscle, in attempting thus to 1 raise the Hd. Headache, giddiness, and other cerebral symptoms, I may denote congestion of the brain as the cause; or ptosis may be : symptomatic of general debility. Congenital ptosis sometimes occurs, and then, probably, the levator j palpebrae muscle is altogether wanting. The treatment of ordinary ptosis must be directed to the removal of cerebral congestion, by derivation and purgatives, followed by stimu- lants and tonics; or, when depending on general debility, the latter \ kind of remedial measures wiU be alone appropriate. Ptosis, otherwise incurable, may perhaps be remedied by an operative procedure—re- . moval of a portion of skin from near the eyebrow, in order that the i Hd may be subject to the elevating action of the occipito-frontalis ■ muscle. This should not be had recourse to when double vision would be estabHshed by the abducted state of the eye. (12.) Spasmodic twitching of the orbicularis muscle is accompanied ■ with a visible quivering of the skin of the eyelid, known as live-blood. : Either lid may be affected, commonly the lower one. It usually results f from or accompanies states of nervous debility, but appears to be > symptomatic of intestinal irritation, especially by ascarides. Treatment will chiefly consist in the administration of purg-atives i and tonics. (13.) Eysterical Affection of the Eyelids is characterized by sudden i and acute paroxysms of pain in the lids and eyes, aggravated by slight r pressure, and occurring in girls or young women otherwise subject"to nysteria. I have not met with any notice of this affection in books, out i have seen a well-marked case in a young lady, who also suddenly m two days—lost the sight of her right eye, and so completely that «no conlfl only discern the glimmering of a strong light with that eye. VOL. JI. o o J 0