LATERAL LITHOTOMY. Fig. 882. down, the question of the "parts" con- G85 straight staff; and the advantage is also gained, that the groove, which had been directed downwards for entering the knife, can now be turned in any oblique line for division of the prostate. But the straight staff is more liable to be tilted out of the bladder than the curved one, and therefore the end of the staff should always rest upon the stone in performing the operation with this instrument. Having reached the staff by the perineal incision, which has to be carried deeper than to reach the curve of the ordinary staff, the point of the knife is entered into the groove ; then the Surgeon, withdraw- ing the left forefinger from the wound, takes the staff from the assistant previously in charge, and depressing the handle brings it down parallel with the axis of the pelvis, so as to present a direct passage to the bladder. In doing either of these acts, special care must be taken lest the knife slip out of the groove. Feeling certain that it still remains in, the Surgeon lateralizes both staff and knife, in contact, to the left of the perineum, coi'responding to the external incision, and pushes the knife onwards along the groove into the bladder; withdrawing it in the same direction, so as to incise the prostate only to a limited extent. Here again, in this nearly parallel mode of using the staff and knife, special caution must be taken lest the point be tilted out of the groove by the front of the prostate; when, instead of entering the bladder, it would pass down into the pelvic cavity. This may be obviated by depressing the handle of the knife to a limited angle with the staff, so as not to incise the prostate too far back. Then, having entered the bladder and withdrawn the knife, this instrument is laid aside ; the staff is now transferred to the right hand, and the left forefinger, introduced into the wound, is guided by the staff into the bladder and to the stone. The finger resting on the stone, the staff may be withdrawn ; the forcejss is intro- duced along the finger, and the operation completed. Farts cut, and Parts to he avoided, in Lateral Lithotomy.—If the opera- tion be conducted on the principles laid cerned is more an anatomical investiga- tion than a surgical consideration—more a Student's question than of practical con- sequence. The parts necessarily divided, in their order from without inwards, are —the skin, superficial fascia, and fat, with the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerves passing across the ischio- rectal fossa ; the transverse perineal muscle and artery, with probably the superficial perineal artery and nerves; the base of the triangular ligament and the deep transverse urethral muscle; the membranous urethra and constrictor muscle; the prostatic urethra and the prostate to a limited extent in its left lateral lobe (Fig. 882)^ x- * I^oy- Coll. Surg. Mus., 2038. Bladder aud prostate gland, after two opera- tions of lateral hthotomy. The prostate shows two deep grooves—the remains nf the incisions, and one of which extends backwards through the nech of the bladder The neck and prostatic urethra are both greatly dilated. The patient, fifty-ei^'ht years old had symptoms of stone for a long time, and of renal disease for twenty years. He died two years after the second operation. (Listen.)