209 DISEASES OF THE IRIS. nodular masses of yellowish lymph, but situated more frequently mid- way between the pupil and the cii'cumference of the iris, or at this part. Slight hsemorrhage, not nncommonly, takes place into the anterior chamber, from bursting of the distended veins of the iris. The cornea usually remains clear. Treatment.—Iritis presents certain general indications of treatment, irrespective of whatever form it may assume. They are ; to arrest in- flammatory effusion, and promote absorption of any lymph-deposit; to prevent adhesion of the iris; and to relieve pain. The consti- tutional treatment will be that of inflammatory fever. To arrest inflavimatory effusion, bleeding by leeches must be adopted, or cupping to the temple, followed by blisters, and their action must be main- tained by temporary laxative aperients and low diet. Mercury seems to have the power of arresting the effusion of lymph, far more than of inducing its absorption. Calomel and opium may be administered, in small doses—say a grain or two with a quarter of a grain respectively, every four or six hours ; its influence on the eye being watched, rather than with the view to salivation. Other preparations of mercury, such as hydrarg. c. creta, may be given in like manner. Tonics, principally quinine, and a nutritious diet, must soon replace any general lowering measures; thus to re-enforce absorption, by maintaining the circulation. To prevent adhesion of the iris, posteriorly, to the capsule of the lens, or anteriorly, to the cornea ; belladonna has the most powerful influence, applied topically, as a means of dilating the pupil and keep- ing it in that state, removed from the liability of contact. The extract may be smeared around the eye, or a solution of the extract, one scruple in an ounce of distilled water, may be dropped into the eye, occasionally. The sulphate of atropine—a grain to the ounce of water —forms a solution of greater value. To relieve paim,, steaming the eye over hot water is a most soothing application; or neuralgic orbital pain, sometimes involving the three divisions of the fifth nerve, a most severe affection, may be relieved by friction with warm laudanum to the forehead and temple. Syphilitic iritis should be subjected to the same plan of treatment. But, the effusion of lymph being particularly rapid and abundant, mercury should be pushed more freely. Turpentine was recommended by Carmichael, as a substitute for mercury, in cases of great general debility. Its efficacy is very uncertain. Iodide of potassium with bark will probably be found more suitable. Bhewnatic iritis requires the administration of mercury in small doses, to check the insidious effusion of lymph; or turpentine in pill, four grains thrice a day, is most effectual in subduing the iritis, when characterized by visible injection of the iris and sclerotic, without much disposition to lymph-effusion. Some more specific treatment will also be appropriate, as colchicum, aconite, and alkali, or iodide of potassium. The neuralgic pain can be relieved by the means already directed. Blisters will probably aggravate its severity. Scrofulous iritis is more specially amenable to the general treatment of other manifestations of Scrofula. Quinine, iron, and cod-liver oil, are the chief remedial measures, and must be reinforced by careful regula- tion of the digestive organs, and a regimen—comprising pure air, daily exercise, warm clothing, and a plain nutritious diet. Local treatment IS of little avail. VOL. II.