SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. ^L^'^^oT'''' "Med.-Chir. Trans.," 1843, will give further ..r.^J ««^«^o^l7 its neck along the posterior aspect, the hernial contents escape through the rent into the sX pentoneal connective tissue. Under continued pressure, the hern^ ? C'Jo?h?""^!i T^' '^'^ Beigibouringperitoneu^ gets lodged between that membrane and the internal abdominal fascia ' inis injury is more frequently produced in that variety of inguinal hernia Imown as congenital, or its sub-form, infantile hernia. It is mflicted very easily under the influence of cHoroform, and especially iu a youthful patient. ^ l j . '^^e signs are these:—the tumour becomes smaller and flaccid slowlv diminishing as the pressure is continued until it almost disappears • but as the hernial contents escape, the Surgeon fails to feel the well-known sensation of a gurgling jerk produced by the return of bowel into the abdomen, and the direction of this apparent reduction seems wrong, bymptoms of strangulation recur, and perhaps with aggravated severity • the tumour also may reappear, and recede again under the application CI slight pressure. The coverings of the hernial sac are liable to injury from rough handling; contusion produces ecchymosis of the integument, with perhaps subcutaneous extravasation of blood and oedematous infil- tration, or inflammation, leading to suppuration and sloughing. Symptoms after Reduction.—Vomiting ceases usually or it mav continue for a while as the effect of chloroform. The' pain in the abdomen and sense of constriction are immediately relieved, and soon pass ofE. Persistence of the symptoms of Strangulation, after apparent reduction, may arise from three conditions of injury : rupture of the intestine, with feculent extravasation into the abdomen ; displacement of the sac into the abdomen, or reduction en bloc; rupture of the sac, and apparent return of its contents. These conditions—thus agreeing in the dis- appearance of the tumour—may perhaps be diagnosed by their structural modes of production, already noticed. Certain conditions of the hernia itself, after real reduction, may also perpetuate the symptoms ; such as internal stricture—within the sac, reduction having overcome only the external stricture of the hernial aperture; or persistent constriction of the viscus which had been protruded, as the result of plastic effusion forming a peritoneal band. The still strangulated viscus rernains functionally paralyzed,—the bowel not regaining its peristaltic action, and the constricted portion becomes gangrenous; with unabated continuance of peritonitis, constipation, and vomiting as the symptoms of strangulation. Only a portion of the circumference of the intestine may thus remain constricted or indented; a condition which I have seen^ in a certain number of cases, two of which I examined more particiilarly. This nipped portion may give way some days after operation; ulceration of the mncous membrane of the bowel having taken place, followed by rupture of the peritoneal coat, either as a large rent or in numerous minute apertures (Spence). The symptoms are the same, though perhaps less marked than with complete constriction. In both conditions of persistent strangulation, when rupture of the bowel occurs, overwhelming peritonitis rapidly ensues. The treatment of these various misadventures of the taxis may be