521 RADICAL CURE OF INGUINAL HERNIA. canal. Signoroni used a piece of catlaeter for invaginatirig ; while G-erdy attempted further, to cause adhesion of the opposed surfaces of the hollow cone of skin by removal of the cuticle by caustic ammonia, and by placing sutures at the mouth of invagination—a proceeding which is usually futile. Wicrtzer's method.—In this modification of the operation by invagi- nation, the forefinger is first introduced to push up the integuments and fundus of the sac through the external abdominal ring and in- guinal canal, as high as the internal ring; a boxwood hollow plug is then introduced, as the finger is withdrawn, and a long flexible needle passed along its interior is thrust through the invaginated skin and sac, thence outwards through the anterior wall of the inguinal canal. A grooved piece of wood is then laid over that part, and held in position by the projecting point of the needle at its extremity, while the lower end is fixed by a screw to the plug, so as to compress the invaginated integument and sac. The object is to distend the inguinal canal and rings by the plug, and to compress by the screw; thus to induce adhesive inflammation between the opposed surfaces of the invaginated integument and sac up to its mouth. In this way, by pre- venting the unfolding of these parts, a permanently inverted cone may result, closing up the hernial canal. Hence the plug is retained for an apparently sufficient period for this purpose, usually about seven days. This procedure, originating with Wurtzer of Bonn in 1838, followed by Rothemund in Munich, and Sigmund in Vienna, was introduced into this country by Mr. Spencer Wells in 1854, and subsequently advocated by Redfern Davies and others. Mr. Davies suggested that the plug should be made to expand like a glove-stretcher, so that it may fill out the internal ring. The failure of all these operations is not due to peritonitis; when a fatal result has ensued, it has generally been owing to suppuration and the burrowing of matter between the abdominal layers, and sometimes consequent on pyaemia. But either mode of operation by invagination commonly proves ineffectual for a complete and permanent cure. In Gerdy's thirty-six cases, most, if not all, had a relapse of the hernia. "Wurtzer's method seems to have been, from Mr. Wood's inquiries, entirely unsatisfactory in its results. With very few exceptions, the rupture re-descended soon after the plug was withdrawn, or whenever the constant use of a truss was discontinued. A very general impres- sion—he adds—prevails among Surgeons, both in this country, in France, Grermany, and the United States, that none of the foregoing operations have given such promise of satisfactory results as to bring them into general use. Wood's Operation.—The novel principle originated by Mr. Wood, for the radical cure of inguinal hernia, consists in the compression and closure of the tendinous sides of the hernial canal throughout its entire length; this principle prevailing in the various methods proposed and practised by this author. Thus characterized, they differ entirely both from the older and more modern operations; all of which either deal with the sac almost solely, or rely upon the principle of dilatation or plugging of the canal. Moreover, unlike that of Schmucker, Langenbeck, and others. Wood's operation is of an entirely subcu- taneous character. The sac, if punctured at all, is pierced by a small ^nd valvular opening only, and remains deep-seated away from ex-