RESULTS OF ANKLE-JOINT EXCISION. 65 (6.) St. Tlionias'8 Hospital; period, 18G6-70. (Per Mr. F. Gliurchill.) Number aTLondoulS^^ period, five years, 1870. (Per Mr. J. McCarthy.) Num- hpr of oases 1- recoveries,!; amputations after excision, 1; recoveries, 1. Guv? Kii^S's College, W;stniinster, St. Mary's, aud Great Nortliem Hospitals;. Liverpool Royal lufirmary; Royal Albert Hospital, Devonport; aud Royal Sca- Batbiug Infirmary, Mai-gate; period, each five years, 1870. No cases. Compared loith the Mortality of Amputation.—{a^. in tlie leg ; (&) at the aukle-ioint—Syme's aud PirogofE's amputations of the foot. (a) Arrvputation of the leg, iov disease, in Civil Surgery, has a mor- tality of 26 per cent.; whereas, in the rcs-ults of ankle-joint excision' for disease, the mortality, as already quoted, haa been only 6 per cent.; 20 per cent. difEerence in favour of excision. (h ) Amputation at AnJde-joint—Syme's Amputation.—Oi the ivholc number of Ankle-joint amputations—219, as collected by Mr. Hancocjc, in 144 amputation was performed for disease—cai-ieSv Of these, 10- only were fatal, or somewhat less than 1 in 14; and as 3 died of phthisis, 1 of diarrhoea, and 1 a year after operation, 6 deaths only remain, or a reduced mortality of 1 in 28. Firocjofs Amputation.— Fifty-eight cases of this ampatation represent the whole number, per- formed by British Surgeons, of which Mr. Hancock has been able to gather the particulars. Nearly 100 cases, reported by PirogofE as. bavino- been performed in Eussia, are not available for statistical com- parison. Of the 58 cases, 5. were fatal, or about 9r%. per cent. Of the remaining 53 recoveries, in 29 the operation had been resorted to for caries. (2.) State of the Foot.—Of the 32, cases operated on by excision of the ankle-joint, 21 recovered with good useful limbs. Secondary Amputation, after Ankle-joint Excision.—Of the 32 cases, 2 only underwent secondary amputation, and both recovered. Compared with Secondary Amputations, after Amputations of Foot.— {a.) After Syme's operation; of the 144 cases submitted for caries, 9 underwent secondary amputation; but of these, 1 was a confirmed drunkard, 1 had been primarily operated on for traumatic gangrene, 1 two years previously for an accident, and in the remaining 2 the disease is not stated. (&.) After Pirogoff's operation: of the ivhole 68. (for disease and injury), 6 only suffered secondary amputation, but in 4 of these the primary operation had been performed for caries. Comparing these two amputations of the foot, Mr. Hancock ob- serves, as regards the occurrence of suppuration, the percentage of deaths, of recoveries and periods of recovery, and secondary amputa- tions, the evidence of British Surgery is in favour of Syme's operation; whilst as regards sloughing of the flap, it is decidedly in favour of Piro- gofi's proceeding. Syme's amputation appears to be unquestionably the best for disease, and Pirogoff's for the accidents of civil life, since by it we preserve an increased length of limb. Tarsal Bones.—Excision of the Tarsal Bones comprises certain recognized operative procedures, which correspond to the lines of the osseous articulations; as removal of the astragalus, or of the os calcis. But the plan and performance of excisional operations on the foot should not be restricted by these anatomical limitations. The modi- fication of these operations on the foot, according to the kind and extent of the disease, well illustrates the guiding principle of excisional