DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 44X Fig. 761* A new growth, as an adenocele, forming in tlie breast, is often accompanied with wasting of the organ; and which may thus be almost replaced by the growth. TtJMOUES.—(1.) Adenocele or Adenoid Tumour.—So named by Velpeau this o-rowth is the Chronic mammary tumour of Sir A. Cooper, Sero-cys'tic sarcoma of Sir B. Brodie, Mammary glandular tumour of Pacret or partial Hypertrophy o£ the glandular structure, as designated bv Lebert. This most common form of breast-tumour is encapsuled and finely lobulated; its section has a bluish or greenish-white colour, which assumes a rosy tint on exposure to the air, and pressure of the cut surface exhibits drops of thick creamy fluid, consisting chiefly ot epitheUum. The tissue of this tumour closely resembles that of the o-land itself; of which organ it might therefore be termed a partial hypertrophy or overgrowth, but as an encapsuled or discontinuous for- mation, it must be regarded as a new growth. Two varieties of structure—according to Mr. Birkett—may be recognized: fibrous adenocele, consist- ing of densely compact lactiferous ducts (Fig. 761), perhaps containing a milky secretion ; and cystic adenocele, the cysts proliferous of glandular tissue from their interior, and containing a yellowish, transparent, serous fluid, afterwards dark and opaque. The cyst may be either a new formation, or result from the dilatation of lactifer- ous ducts, as Sir B. Brodie originally described their origin in sero-cystic dis- ease of the breast. These two modifica- tions of cystic adenocele differ in their origin, rather than structurally. Symptoms.—Adenocele usually commences as a small, hard, gramilar, circumscribed, and painless or scarcely tender, nodule or lump; situ- ated upon the cutaneous surface of the breast, or at its border, in its substance, or behind it. "When superficial, this lump is isolated and movable under the skin; but when imbedded or behind the gland, these characters are indistinct or wanting. With an increasing size of the growth, the gland itself becomes atrophied. More than one such lump, or many, may possibly be developed, varying in size from half an inch to two or three inches. Both breasts seem equally liable to this affection, and both may be affected, though rarely. Cystic adenocele is distinguished by fluctuation, more or less perceptible, according to the superficial or deep situation of the growth; this character gradually disappears, as the cyst or cysts become solid, in part or entirely, owing to proliferous growths occupying their cavities more or less completely, (^^ig- 762.) The * Eoy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2779 b. Mammary glandular tumour. (J. Birkett.) t Eoy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2763 a. Proliferous cysts in breast. (Dr. Masfen.) Fig. 762.t