48 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ■with destruction of the head, and of the neck of the femur so far as to leave only a nodule of bone above the great troclianter. An approach to this condition is represented in the figure. In such case, Adams's operation must be ineligible, there being no femoral neck to divide. The amount of shortening, as determined by accurate measure- ment of the limb, coupled with the duration of the disease, will afford the only indications as to the probable extent of destruction in the neck of the femur. Assuming that, under these circumstances, the requisite conditions of anchylosis and malposition have taken place, some other operative procedure, than in the small remnant nodule of the neck, must be resorted to. It was in such a case as this condition of the joint, that it seemed to me absolutely necessary to remove the seat of subcutaneous section to another part of the femur; and two con- siderations induced me to select a line of section just belmv the trocJian- ters, rather than through the great trochanter—as in the operations of Rhea Barton and Sayre, and neither of which procedures were performed by the subcutaneous method. The new site of the operation I proposed, was indicated by the pathological fact that the section would not be made in any presumably diseased portion of the femur, but in sound bone ; and another consideration was the anatomical or physiological fact that, the section being below the small trochanter, the resisting psoas and iliacus muscles would be set free, in order the more effectually to overcome malposition of the limb. To these reasons in favour of this infra-trochanteric operation, may be added the absence of any risk of atrophy or necrosis of the Fig. 505.* remnant head or neck of bone, by cutting off its vascular supply; and that, in young subjects, sepai'ation of the epiphysial head of the femur might be followed by shorten- ing of the limb; both these contingencies having special relation to Adams's operation in the neck of the femur. Secondly, another class of cases inappro- priate for the latter operation is when the resultant anchylosis is attended with an exu- berant deposit of new, nodular, and hard bone around the neck of the femur, pro- ducing considerable thickening and indura- tion of the bone in that situation; as in. chronic rheumatic arthritis. (Fig. 605.) Accordingly, in such case also, I would transfer the site of section to below the trochanters. Subcutaneous Section of the Femur, leloio the Trochanters—T\xq Infra-Trochanteric Operation.—I first performed this operation on December 10th, 1872, as reported in the Lancet, December 21st. The patient lying down, the thigh about to be operated on is directed across that of the opposite side, owing to the angle of malposition. I grasp the front of the thigh with the left hand, below the trochanters, and turn the mass of muscle somewhat outwards, planting my thumb rather below the outer side of the femur, to mark the point of incision. A stout tenotomy knife, set in a long handle, is entered at that point, * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mub., B. 4.