253 POLYPUS. ■beino-, if possible, avoided. During the painful stage of the affection, sedative solutions, such as morphia (gr. iv. to ^i. of water) or sulphate of atropine (gr. ii. to jl), may be applied, astringents being used only after the pain has ceased. In the acute form, or in the acute stage of the chronic form, the use of the ordinary astringent lotions, alum, sul- phate of zinc, and sulphate of copper, in strengths varying from one to four grains to the ounce of water, or nitrate of silver (from ten to twenty grains to the ounce of water), with attention to any complication which may be present and to the constitution of the patient, are sufficient to insure a favourable course to the disease. If the chronic form has been reached, stronger solutions of the above- mentioned astringents may be employed, and counter-irritation over the mastoid process by tincture of iodine, cantharides ointment, or some other irritant will be found serviceable. Polypus.—The formation of a polypus usually occurs during some chronic purulent discharge, either from the middle ear or the meatus, and becomes itself a fresh source of discharge, besides increasing the original disease, by preventing the exit of the pus and keeping the parts pressed upon by it in an unhealthy and irritated condition. Aural polypi, ■usually of a bright red coloui', extremely vascular, and bleeding easily on being touched, vary in shape, size, density, and position. They may be grape-shaped, lobulated or ragged, pedunculated or with a broad base. Sometimes they are so large that they protrude from the meatus, in which case they are covered with a hard non-secreting integument, and may almost at the first glance be mistaken for part of the auricle, or a button-shaped outgrowth from it; while at other times they are so small that their presence can be determined only by the most careful examination. The diiferent authorities are not agreed as to which are the most frequent sites of their growth. They arise from the external meatus, from the membrana tympani, or from the cavity of the tympanum ; and there may be more than one in the same ear at the same time. Yery small growths, or those occurring in nervous patients who will not suffer removal by instruments, may be removed by the repeated applications of nitrate of silver, undiluted liquor plumbi, alum, or tannin powder,—care being taken that the surface is thoroughly cleaned before each application. But the immediate removal by instruments, whenever it is possible, is by far the most satisfactory and safest method of treatment. Many instruments have been employed for this purpose, the most efficient being Wilde's snare (T'ig- 649), Durham's forceps, Hinton's forceps, the knife-hook, and long-armed scissors. Wilde's snare is especially valuable, as it is efficient in almost all cases, and can be introduced through the speculum; and with it there is no danger of injuring the surrounding parts, which may be injured when the polypus is torn out with the forceps. The objections to it are the diffi- culty of application, and the constant slipping or breaking of the loop * "Wilde's snare for the removal of polypus, etc., from the external meatus. (Gruber.)