SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 760 measures are requisite, but the topical applications must be made directly to the part affected. Thus, injections must be thrown up tlie vagina so as to reach the seat of inflammation, and lotions should be applied by means of a fold of lint placed well in between tho labia. Stricture of the Ueethea.—Among diseases of the Urethra, Stricture justly ranks high in its importance; whether on account of its frequency, the distress it occasions, its serious and fatal conse- quences when neglected, or the unquestionable means for cure or relief. The term Stricture of the Urethra signifies an unnatural narrowing or contraction of this passage, at one or more points in its extent. This may depend on either of three distinct conditions :—(1) Lymph- deposit in the mucous and submucous tissues, as the result of chronic inflammation,—and thence known as Organic or Permanent Stricture; (2) Spasmodic contraction of the muscular fibres en- circling the mucous membrane,—Spasmodic Stricture ; (3) Inflam- matory congestion of the mucous membrane,—Inflammatory Stricture. The two latter conditions of stricture—spasm and inflammation—often coexist; and either may be engrafted for a time on organic stricture. Organic or Permanent Stricture.—Pour forms of organic stricture of the urethra may be recognized, according to Sir H. Thompson's accurate observations:—linear stricture, in which the urethral canal is obstructed by a thin, membranous septum, having a central aperture ; or a crescentic septum, which obstructs a segment only of the calibre of the canal; thus forming the " bridle stricture ; "—annular stricture, a thicker and broader, contracted portion of the urethral canal, as if a piece of cord had been tied around it at one point, leaving the remainder free (Fig. 915) ;— indurated anmdar stricture, a more confirmed contraction, in which the induration involves the tissues of the urethra to the depth of half a line or a line, limited. in length from before backwards to less than half an inch of the canal, and forms an hour-glass contraction, usually thicker on the floor than at the upper aspect of the urethra; —tortuous or irregular stricture, owing apparently to adhesion of the rugge of the urethra to a short extent, or to a cicatricial patch of induration, or a longitudinal contraction and induration to an extent of one or more inches. (Fig- 916.) In this condition of stricture, the * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., DD. 44. Annular stricture of the urethra, situated in the spongy portion, nearly three inches from the external meatus. t Koy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2552. Long, narrow stricture of the membranous urethra, and in the first inch of the bulbous and spongy portions ; v?ith a false passage just in front, and a large irregular abscess in the perineum, having numerous fistulous cpeuings,—perineal, scrotal, and in the right buttock; but the abscess does not com- municate with the urethra. (Huntorian.) Fig. 915.* Fig. 916.+