SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEBY, 150 IS often Comminuted; and the former, or inward depressed fracture may be a Punctured or perhaps stellate fracture, when it is necessarily comminuted, spicular portions of the internal table being driven in Traumatic depression of the skull, without fracture, is not authenticated by any specimen. In the adult, the existence of such injury cannot be acknowledged; and in children, with pliant bones, some of the bony fibres must be broken, forming an Indented fracture. Displacement inwards may affect the external or internal table alone. _ The external table, Mr. Prescott Hewett observes, may be driven down in any part of the vault, but especially in the region of the frontal sinuses, where the depression may be very extensive, without ^"7 injury of the inner table. In childhood, when there is no diploe, depressed fracture of the external table alone can only occur over the frontal sinuses, or into the mastoid cells ; and in the former situation, I have seen little mischief ensue. From gunshot injury, the outer table may be grooved, as by the angle of a shell fragment or a conoidal ball. The inner table may be broken and depressed without a trace of in- jury about the outer parts of the bone, (Fig. 596.) Such cases are very rifi. 595.* Fig. 596.t rarely met with, although in addition to the earlier surgical experience, I find twenty instances of this fracture recorded in the " Surgical History of the American War, 1861-65 ; " but extensive splintering and depres- sion of the inner table not unfrequently exist, with some slight injury of the outer table. Fracture of the inner or vitreous table is always much more extensive than that of the outer table. Displacement outwards may affect the external table partially. Of such displacement there are two specimens in the Museum of St. George's Hospital. In both, a piece involving the whole thickness of the bone, having been detached on three sides, is bent outwards, and thus raised two or three lines above the level of the skull: the frae:- * Univ. Coll. Mus., 115. t St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 7. Fracture of the skull, with depression of the internal table ; but no corresponding depression of the external table. On the outer surface (n(3t shown) there is extensive linear fracture of both parietal bones, and in the left parietal, where the blow seems to have been struck, there are nume- rous fissures in the external table, but without any depression. Corresponding to this part, on the inner surface, there is a conical depression of the internal table, formed by a number of small plates converging to a point, and separated by minute flssrires. The greatest depth of the depression is about a quarter of an inch. The ]iaticnt, a man aged sixty-eight, was admitted with a scalp-wound, and symptoms of " concussion;" also fracture of the olecranon. Symptoms of inflammation super- vened, after some days, and death ensued in three weeks from the injury.