EXCISION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT, FOR INJURY. 85 Compared ivitli Ambulation, the mortality of excision contrasts very favourably. Of 13 amputations of the upper extremity, in Guy's Hos- pital, on account of injury, 1 in 4-33, or 33 per cent., of primary, and 1 in 5, or 20 per cent., of secondary operations, proved fatal. In Military Hospitals, the results have been less successful, but still in favour of excision. Combining the experience of the Crimean War, and of the Schlesvvig-Holstein campaign, we have a total number of cases in proof of this position. Of 60 excisions, 11 were fatal, or a mortality of 18-33 per cent. Whereas, of 208 amputations, 48 were fatal, or a mortality of 23-07 per cent. Thence, a percentage of 4-74 in favour of excision. Partial excisions have not been so successful as the complete operation. This was shown in Civil practice, hy the results of 7 of the 21 cases referred to, where the partial operation was performed ; 3 made good results, 1 ended in partial anchylosis, in 1 ex- tension was imperfect, in 1 failure was imputed to habits of intemper- ance, and of 1 the result is wanting. Military practice, as taught by the results of the Crimean War, points to the same conclusions. Partial excisions of the elbow were more tedious in recovery, more liable to fail, and the results, when successful, were less perfect. Secondary excision, at the period of suppuration, say at the end of a week, if it be not preferable to the primary operation, would seem not to be unfavourable to recovery. This is the opinion of Stromeyer, and it is confirmed by Esmarch's statistics—that of 11 excisions within the first twenty-four hours of the injury, 1 died; of 20 performed during the inflammatory stage—from the second to the fourth day, 4 died ; of 9 secondary excisions in the period fi'om the eighth to the thirty-seventh day, only 1 died. The right elbow-joint, like the right shoulder, would appear to be more favourable for excision, in regard to recovery. On the right side, only 2 in 20 operations proved fatal; whereas, on the left side, 4 in 19 were fatal—a more than double mortality. Indeed, comparing the total results of the shoulder and elbow joint excisions, the mortality on the left arm to that on the right is as 3 to 1. In a notable case, Mr. MacCormac performed a doithle excision; one of the right shoulder-joint, and the other of the right elbow-joint; in consequence of gunshot fracture of the upper end of the humerus, and also of the external condyle of the humerus, with extensive fracture of the ulna in its upper third, including the olecranon, and implicating the head of the radius. The patient, Louis St. Aubin, belonged to a French corps d'elite, the 3rd Chasseurs d'Afrique. He was wounded at the battle of Sedan. Having had his horse shot under him in a cavalry charge, while struggling on foot, he received a severe bayonet thrust in the face ; but, later in the day, having engaged the enemy again, he was completely disabled by a shell-explosion, which severely lacerated the bones and soft parts of his right arm, in the region of the shoulder and the elbow joints. This splendid soldier bore excision of the shoulder-joint without the influence of chloroform, which he resolutely refused ; the original wound was utilized by extending it upward and downward, and then four inches of the upper articular end of the humerus was removed, at the limit of the fractured portion. Under chloroform, the elbow-joint was next submitted to operation, the intcgumental wound being enlarged so as to allow of sub-periostcal excision of the ulnar fragments at the junction of the upper and middle