364 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. forwards towards the operator. Moreover, this guillotine is nm durln/t I or three prongs, which transfix and'^steady the gCd during the operation. Physick's tonsillotome can be used readily Fig. 710.* ^^^^ hand, whilst the other hand is ap- plied under the angle of the jaw, so as to press the tonsil into the instrument. With the aid of two in- struments, one for the right and the other for the left side, the re- moval of both tonsils is the work of a few seconds. The tonsil- guillotine is made in three sizes, as, unless it tits the tonsil with some accuracy, the gland is liable to be pushed on one side, instead of being cut through or trans- txed, by the knife or prongs. I prefer the tonsillotome to the bistoury, especially for children, as it is a steadier mode of excision. This instrument can be nsed by the operator standing in front of the patient, for the excision of either tonsil; whereas, in removing the right tonsil with thp bistoury and vulsellum, the operator must stand over the patient from behind, unless he be perfectly ambidex- trous. Both tonsils may be operated on at the same sitting. A very efficient plan of arresting the haemorrhage, if it be at all excessive, is to make some tannic acid into a thick paste with water, and to let the patient swallow about a teaspoonful of the mixture. In the act of deglu- tition the styptic is forced into the interstices of the cut surface of the tonsil, and the bleeding ceases at once. Elongation or Relaxation ot the Uvula.—Thickening, without elongation, of the uvula sometimes occurs; but an elongation or relax- ation without thickening is the more common state. It appears to consist of an excess of mucous membrane, the azygos muscle not participating in the hypertrophy. The membrane may extend an inch beyond the extremity of the muscle, hanging down as a thin, narrow slip of this tissue, with a pointed extremity. When of this leno-th, it touches the back of the tongue or even the epiglottis. Constent irritation occasions a spasmodic cough, while the tickling sensation may excite nausea or even vomiting. The patient's life is sometimes thus rendered quite miserable. The cawse of this hypertrophy generally seems to be chronic catarrh, or an habitual over-exertion of the voice. Hence its elongation is ♦ TonBillotome of defective construction. The prong is not used now, and only one hand is employed, t Fahnestock's guiUotiue.