ORGANIC STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 761 induration may involve the entire substance of the corpus spongiosum, presenting the most obstinate and undilatable form of stricture. Situation of Stricture.—The urethral canal is liable to stricture in three situations:—(1.) At the junction of the spongy and mem- branous portions, or within an inch before, and three-quarters of an inch behind, that point. Of these situations, the most common seat of stricture is the bulbous part of the spongy portion—anterior to the triangular ligament; rarely, behind this membrane, in the mem- branous portion, and most rarely as far back as the posterior part of the membranous portion. No instance has been found of stricture of the prostatic portion of the urethra. The above strictures correspond to the subpubic curvature. (2.) In the centre of the spongy portion, or that portion of the urethra which extends from the anterior limit of the preceding to within two inches and a half of the external meatus, a length of about three inches. (3.) At the external orifice, and within a distance of two inches and a half of it. These definitions as to the situations of urethral stricture result from a laborious examination, by Sir H. Thompson, of 270 prepara- tions in our principal public Museums, and comprising 320 distinct; strictures. In region 1 were found 215, or 67 per cent, of the entire number; in region 2, 51, or 16 per cent.; in region 3, 54, or 17 per cent. Mr. H. Smith made a similar investigation of this question, on a smaller scale; the preparations numbering 98, as pre- served in the different London Museums. Of these, 77 were stric- tures situated anterior to the triangular ligament; and 21 only, in the membranous portion of the urethra. Several strictures may coexist in the same urethra. John Hunter records an instance of six strictures in one urethra; Lallemand and other French writers describe seven or eight; Sir H. Thompson has never been able to find any such examples, and he limits the highest number of coexisting strictures to three, or at the most four. In the above number of 270 preparations, eight were cases of stricture in all three regions; ten in regions 1 and 2 only; ten in regions 1 and 3 only; thirteen in regions 2 and 3 only. The urethral obstruction occasioned by stricture gives rise to symp- toms which are individually, or collectively, significant of this con- dition. Increased frequency of micturition arises, owing to the inability to completely empty the bladder; the stream of urine becomes smaller than is natural to the individual, and altered in form, being either flattened, twisted or corkscrewed, forked, or turned aside; and dis- charged with a less forcible propulsion, so that the current is not ejected as far from the person as formerly, and at length issues as a mere dribbling or in drops. As the obstruction increases, the muscular coat of the bladder gradually strengthens, and hypertrophies, in order to compensate for the difficulty in ejecting the urine through the strictured urethra; and as this thickening of the bladder proceeds, its capacity is propor- tionably diminished, less urine can be retained, and micturition must be even more frequent. This state, annoying and inconvenient during the day, is distressing at night, when exhaustion would invite to rest; the sufferer being repeatedly aroused from his temporary doze, and