SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. until the urethral inflammation is subsiding, and when nerhans rlis charge alone remains. Some slight external cause of irrFtaS such as active walking exercise, riding on horseback! or the Son of tight trousers, may then produce epididymitis. Suddrsuppression metastass or transference; or, the discharge continuing it won Id S^atlhe teT^^^ action e...... along fhe .JZl'^LlZtt nrethra to the testicle. Sometimes, indeed, the cord in the inguinal canal presents a hard and tender swelling, Continuous with that the epididymis m the scrotum. Orchitis or epididymitis consequent on xSnte term' ^''^ "^"""'^ ^ sy^npaLtio inflammTon-a ter^ ^^"«es, mumps more frequently affects the testis than the epididymis but the mflammation may commence in either Lnpl^n ' " ' ^^P^^"^' rheumatism, especially gonorrhceal rheumatism, may also severally predispose to or induce, inflammation either of the testis or of the epididymis. Exceptmg however syphilis, which chiefly affects the testis the scro- fulous, gouty, and rheumatic diatheses generally induce epididymitis, the testis becoming secondarily affected. Children are liable to acute orchitis, but inflammation of the epididymis is more common at an early age. _ Terminations.—Acute inflammation of the testicle or of the epididy- mis usually subsides by resoUtion, in a period varying from a week to a fortnight or longer. As the disease dechnes, the distinctive characters presented by the enlargement of the two constituents of the or^an again become apparent. The testis first resumes its natural size and shape; the epididymis often continuing enlarged, irregular, and hardened, for a considerable period. Ultimately, when the structui-al condition of the organ is restored, its functional power remains unim- paired. Atrophy 18 sometimes the result of inflammation ; exceptional cases of this kind, m consequence of mumps, have been seen by Dr. Hamilton, M. Rilhet, and Professor Humphry. Suppuration rarely occurs, though I have seen it in one case. Treatment—In the acute stage.—Local blood-letting is a most effectual means of subduing the inflammation, whether as orchitis or epididymitis. Blood may be abstracted by the application of leeches to the scrotum, or by puncturing the congested scrotal veins. The latter method is preferable, as leech-bites are apt to become centres of inflammation. Puncturing is most conveniently commenced at the lower part of the scrotum, so that the blood trickling from the veins first opened, shall not obscure the vessels above. Warm fomentations should then be apjalied, whereby double the quantity of blood may be drawn off than would otherwise be procured. Six or eight ounces of blood having been taken in this way, rest in the recumbent position, with the scrotum well supported by a pillow or handkerchief, will complete the local treatment in the acute stage of inflammation. It has been proposed to puncture the tunica alhuginea at different points, in order to reduce the tension resulting from this fibrous tunic; and I have heard that great relief, and even a cure, has been thus speedily obtaiued, in several instances. I have had no experience of this resource ; but it would seem to be at least unnecessary, seeing that the inflammation is amenable to ordinary antiphlogistic measures. Gunsti-