DISEASE OF THE SPINE. 409 Fir.. 741. hnih of which eVils would result from a long-continued resting 1 he p a ent on her back. In this way the progress of the disease ' ! be^ arrested without further measures. Blisters, setons mox^B, Sometimes useful adjuncts, as means of counter-irr.tation ; but they ' p oommonly prove obnoxious by disturbing sleep, and enfeebling ZX^^e io\ draining discharge. Should these appliances be ^ °7^°f/ tlnp nrone nosition will obviously be more convenient, as ;T : b This plan^f treatment Wng been Irsued for six months, a year, or more, according to the state of the Case, some degree of freedom may then be allowed to the patient hv wearino- an apparatus to support the trunk. i,- i It consists of a broad pelvic band, as the basis, from whach two steel rods, one on either side of the trunk, pass up^vards teruxinat ng in padded crutches for the arm-pits. A back-plate is added for the direct support of the spine at the seat of ■curvature. (Fig. 741.) Throuo-hout the whole course oi tne disease, medical treatment should have regard to the improvement of nutrition. Hence tonics, of which iron and quinine are most efficacious, with cod-liver oil, and a generally nutritious diet, will aid the effect of rest in procuring anchylosis. Intercurrent paralytic symptoms mostly subside, when the disease thus progresses favourably ; the spinal cord recovering its functional power. Small doses of bichloride of mercury, from the twentieth to the six- teenth of a grain, may be given with advan- tao'e, as recommended by Stanley. ° Psoas abscess, or abscess in any other situation, resulting from spinal disease, requires no special treatment. Like any other large indolent abscess, no interfer- ence is necessary, until it threatens to burst. A small valvular opening should then be made, to relieve tension without . ^ n the admission of air; and closed, before the matter has ceased to flow, with a pad of lint and a strip or two of plaster. This procedure may be repeated from time to time, as occasion requires. If the carious disease of the vertebrse be arrested, matter ceases to accuniulate ; and the abscess contracting with each evacuation, its cavity will at length Idgcoihg closed* Treatment 'by Suspension and Plaster of Paris Bandage.—k new method of treating cases of Pott's disease of the spine by suspension and use of the plaster of Paris bandage was introduced into this country by Professor Sayre, of New York, in the year 1877 ; but he had carried out this practice in America three years previously. The mode of applying the plaster of Paris jacket, and the result of treat- ment, are described in a work recently published.* * "Spinal Disease and Spinal Curvature: Their Treatment by Suspension and the Use of the Plaster of Paris Bandage," by Louis A. Sayre, M.D., of New York. Smith, Elder & (Jo., London. 1877.