MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE STUMP. 101 i tion, it will be a judicious precaution to place a tourniquet around the limb loosely, wbich can be tightened at any moment by the special nurse in attendance ; or, by marking with ink the spot where pressure should be made in the course of the main artery, the nurse can be instructed thus to arrest the bleeding. Even Fig. 537.* the patient may become an assistant, when necessary. (2.) Necrosis.—Death of the end of the bone, and a resulting sequestrum or exfoliation, may take place, either from injury to the bone by rough use of the saw; or in consequence of suppuration, sloughing, and expo- sure of the bone. The dead portion must be removed, when loosened. But the whole shaft of the bone may become necrosed, as happened in a case of a femur, after amputation in the thigh ; and of which the speci- men will be found in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. In such a case, re-amputation higher up would be the only resource. (3.} Gonical Stump, with protrusion of the bone.— This morbid condition arises, either from insulEcient coverings of the bone at the time of amputation, or from spasmodic retraction of the muscles subsequently. In either way the bone projects, and the stump has, or acquires, a conical shape upwards from the bone as its apex. Sometimes, the bone threatens to protrude under a thin ulcerative cicatrix, which is unable to bear the shghtest pressure or motion. Growth of the bone, in young persons, is apt to give rise to conical stump eventually, as specially noticed by Hargrave and Spence. But in all the amputations I have had, only three have been followed by conical stump, each of which resulted from spasmodic contraction. The protruding or projecting portion of bone must be excised, and the stump refashioned. An incision on the side opposite to the vessels should fairly expose the bone, which is then sawn off, and the flaps readjusted. In an extreme case, amputation of the stump must be resorted to. (4.) Neuralgia of the stump may arise from local or constitutional causes. Com- monly, it arises from a more than usually bulbous enlargement of the ends of the nerves in the stump (Fig. 538), or from their adhesion to the cicatrix, or to the end of bone, whereby also they are subject to external pressure or to atmospheric mfluence. Excision of any such enlarge- ment will be necessary, or subcutaneous division of an adherent cicatrix. The end of the bone should be removed, to relieve pressure and tightness arising from that cause. In a case of Fifi. 538.t Koyal Free Hospital j\Ius; t A fLor Frorioj).