146 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. of exit, and of any insensibility, or other brain-symptoms, -wbicTi wonld attend a penetrating gunshot fracture of the skull; moreover, the ball can generally be felt under the scalp, though it may be buried deeply, as beneath the muscles of the neck. Wound of this kind is apt to be produced when a round ball impinges obliquely on the skull, and is thence deflected beneath the skin. Treatment consists specially in removing the foreign body by a counter-opening, rather than by extraction through the original aper- ture, which should be dressed as a contused wound. But necrosis often ensues, with tedious exfoliation ; a consequence which must not be overlooked with regard to prognosis and after-treatment. Long- continued suppurative discharge, with sloughing, may exhaust the patient; or intra-cranial inflammation supervene. The contingencies of gunshot wound of the scalp are various : secondary hemorrhage not unfrequently; erysipelas as an occasional consequence, but from no special liability; while traumatic spreading gangrene, pyaemia, and tetanus sometimes occur. Contusion.—Without wound of the scalp, a contusion presents the usual characters of such lesion; but the blood-tumour which forms, varies with the situation of extravasation and the localized state of the blood. Extravasation may occur in either of three situations : (1) between the skin and the tendinous expansion of the occipito-frontalis muscle ; (2) in the loose cellular texture under this muscle; or, (3) beneath the pericranium or periosteum. In either situation, the blood may be infiltrated, or circumscribed more or less in a cavity. Infiltrated in the dense cellular tissue between the skin and occipito- frontalis muscle, the blood presents a hard unyielding lump ; beneath the tendinous expansion, it spreads through the loose cellular texture, forming a swelling of sometimes considerable extent over the head, and which gives a crackling sensation when pressed with the finger. Circumscribed extravasation is apt to form a prominent cuplike tumour, with a soft centre, and a hard circumferential ridge, resem- bling fracture of the skull with depression; for which injury the blood-tumour resulting from contusion may be mistaken, and the more readily if the swelling in connection with a lacerated artery pulsates. But the diagnosis will be determined by three observations : the bone can be felt with the point of the finger, at the bottom of the soft central hollow ; the circumferential margin can be indented with the finger-nail, unlike bone; and there are no symptoms of cerebral com- pression. . . The Treatment is in no way peculiar. Absorption often taking place, it may be promoted by cold evaporating lotions, which check further efEusion. Persistent and increasing extravasation will justify evacuation of the fluid. This should be done by a small puncture, after which compression is made and continued over the whole swell- ing. In large collections, these puncturings may have to be repeated several times; and in an encysted collection of large size, if the uuid has become of a serous character, and recurs again and again an iodine injection might be thrown into the pouch. A small false aneurism sometimes results from extravasation; and this may be cured by compression, or by acupressure with a pin and figure-of- eight suture.