SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 34 * Koyal Free Hospital. (Author.) should primarily determine the necessity for excision in all cases, and not any arbitrary consideration of the period of the disease and the condition of the joint. Whenever, therefore, the general health is manifestly failing, whatever may be the stage of the hip-joint disease, excision should be resorted to and without further delay. This guiding rule was strongly urged and clearly illustrated by Mr. Hancock in his lectures at the Royal College of Surgeons. On the other hand, the most extreme state of constitutional exhaustion, previous to the operation of excision, may be followed by recovery after removal of the diseased bone ; as the successful results in my own series of hip- joint cases, 1, 2, 4, and 6, clearly show. (2.) Osseous anchylosis with malposition of the limb will not jtistify the peril of attemjDted excision. Subcutaneous section of the neck of the femur—the operation first proposed and practised by Mr. W. Adams—may be eligible; or my own operation (1872), of sub- cutaneous section below both trochanters. The limb can thus be brought down to a straight position. (3.) The extent of hone diseased may be considerable, and involve both the femur and acetabulum. In the femur the diseased portion may include the head, neck, great trochanter, and Fig. 493.* shaft, entering even into the meduUaiy canal. (Fig. 493.) In the acetabulum the diseased portion may include the whole floor of this cavity, and even extend to adjoining portions of the ilium, pubis, and ischium. Neither of these conditions of ex- tensive osseous disease actually prohibits excision ; but the acetabulum not unfrequently recovers it- self when the diseased head of the femur has been removed from further contact and attrition. (4.) Dislocation is unfavourable for excision, as implying an ad- vanced stage of the disease constitutionally. The significance of this local condition will, therefore, diminish in proportion to the absence of marked hectic and emaciation. The evidence in support of these principles or rules for hip-joint excision is important, seeing that they are at variance, as I have said, with the results of former experience. Firstly, respecting the constitutional condition. Advanced hectic, consequent on prolonged irritation and suppurative discharge in the last stage of the disease, will evidently have so reduced or exhausted the patient's reserve-power, as to peril the prospect of recovery, although the diseased bone be then removed by excision. The de- liberate postponement of the operation until that pei'iod when consti- tutional exhaustion with emaciation is verging on dissolution, would be almost equivalent to operating on a corpse. By analogy, I would liken it to the postponement of operation for the relief of strangulated hernia until the patient is sinking in consequence; the Surgeon de- liberately allowing the expenditure of the reserve-power requisite for recovery, without which operative interference must necessarily be a failure and the patient doomed. Key's maxim respecting strangulated hernia is at least suggestive with regard to excision :—" I have often had occasion to regret operating too late, I have never regretted operating too early." It is no answer to this argument for timely operation as