623 UEINAEY DEPOSITS. direction, and thus reaching the internal abdominal ring, it may partly protrude through the inguinal canal. At first, there is no peritoneal investment—no sac; but when the fundus of the bladder descends, the peritoneal covering presents a sac. Sometimes, an ordinary intestinal and omental hernia coexists, and this protrusion descends in front of the cystic, behind which lies the spermatic cord. In some cases, the protruded portion of the bladder has contained not only urine, but also one or more calculi. With any symptoms of stone, sounding then, of course, will not detect the calculus. "When situated in the groin, as a cystic bubonocele, the stone has been mistaken for a bubo ; an odd mistake, considering all the different circumstances of the two cases. The treatment of cystocele is simjjly that of hernia ; the protrusion should be reduced, and kept up by a truss; or, when irreducible, a suspensory bag must be worn. In the event of an operation, the Surgeon will remember the pecu- liarities of the hernia with which he has to deal;—the absence, usually, of a peritoneal sac to the bladder; and the possible coexistence of an intestinal hernia, with a sac, overlying the cystocele. Should the vesical protrusion contain a stone, this should be returned into the cavity of the bladder, and afterwards removed by lithotomy or litho- trity. But a stone has been extracted by direct incision into the pro- truded portion of the bladder, and no unfavourable symptoms followed this method of operation. Urinaey Deposits, Before proceeding to the consideration of Stone in the Bladder, and the treatment by Lithotomy or Lithotrity, it is necessary to acquire an elementary knowledge, at least, of the various Moi'bid Con- ditions which the Urinary secretion may undergo, and the formation of Deposits and Calculi. Apart from this relationship, the Student should possess such knowledge for the clinical investigation of very many other Surgical diseases, and in order to estimate the probability of recovery after most Surgical Operations. Morbid Conditions of the Urine are—either increased or dimin- ished proportions of its normal constituents, or new adventitious in- gredients ; those, perhaps, of most practical importance being sugar, albumen, and bile. ° ' _ In common with its healthy conditions, morbid conditions of the urine are immediately referable to corresponding causative conditions of the blood ; but their pathological origin—like unto the physiological production of the urinary constituents—within the bodv, is remote Morbid Conditions op the Blood.—In health, the "composition of the blood is ever changing, by the addition of new matter, received through the process of digestion,—the primary assimilation of food- and as effete matter or waste of the textures, through their destruction in the course of nutrition,—secondary assimilation ; and, furthermore ever changmg, by the abstraction of old, effete matter,—or excretion through the kidneys, skin, liver, and other excreting or secretin? organs. ^ So likewise, in various diseases, the composition of the blood is ever changmg by the addition of new morbid matter, throuo-h primarv v^iaZ-assimilation, or secondary maZ-assimilation, or by the co-opera