ILEMATURIA. 725 length declaring tlie nature of the disease. Ultimately, the extent of ulcei-ation may be such as to destroy nearly the whole of the mucous membrane; and then a very large, ragged ulcer is found after death. Treatment must have reference to the constitutional disease—tuber- culosis, and the remedies for chronic cystitis. HEMATURIA.—Blood in the urine, or simply bloody urine, is a symptom only of disease in some part of the urinary organs. Varying in quantity, from a small proportion discoverable only by the micro- scope, to an amount constituting the greater portion of the fluid passed, tbe admixture of blood and urine may be estimated by corresponding dilferences in the colour of the urine. When blood is present in small quantity, the urine has a brownish or smoky tint; and deposits a reddish-brown sediment on standing. In large quantity, the lu'ine has : a dark-brown, muddy colour, like chocolate; and deposits a red sedi- ment, adhering to the bottom of the vessel. Intermediate tints are met with, according to the admixture of blood. Heat coagulates the blood into a brownish-grey deposit, leaving a clear fluid above ; and micro- I scopic examination exhibits the characteristic red blood-discs. These ; tests, especially the latter, will show the presence of blood in the urine, ; and thus distinguish hematuria from simply dark reddish-coloured 1 urine, due to other causes—bile, rhubai'b, and other colouring matters, I or to mere concentration of the urinary secretion. The source of the blood in htematuria, and thence the seat of the (disease, may be any one or more of the following parts:—(I) the 1 kidney; (2) the pelvis of the kidney ; (3) the ureter; (4) the bladder; ((5) the prostate; (6) the urethra. Causes.—Diseases of the kidney, acute and chronic; injury, as 1 blows, strains, etc. ; calculus in any part of the urinary tract—the 1 kidney, ureter, bladder, prostate, or urethra ; violent diuretics, as tur- 1 pentine or cantharides; cystitis, occasionally; villous tumour of the 1 bladder; the hgemorrhagic diathesis; certain blood-diseases, as fever . or purpurq,; stricture of the urethra;. urethral chancre; chordee; local ; application of mechanical and chemical agents. The diagnosis of the source of blood in the urine is the same as of t these causative conditions. But the general ground of distinction is t this :—when hsematuria is renal, the urine will be uniformly mixed with the blood; when it is vesical or prostatic, the first portion of V urine that passes, or that is drawn off by the catheter, will be pale and I less bloody than the last, and at the termination of the stream, pure I blood only may escape; when proceeding from the urethra, the blood ! may be mixed, but niore often unmixed, with urine, passed also in the : form of worm-like clots or casts of the urethral canal, and independently of micturition. Treatment must always have reference to the cause of hsematuria t the disease whence the blood emanates. The general remedial mea- ssures are rest, the recumbent position, and astringents. Grallic acid I in particular, sulphuric acid, acetate of lead combined with opium, or ^ Ruspini's styptic, may severally be administered internally. In vesical hh^morrhage, oil of turpentine is specially efficacious ; in doses of from t ten to fifteen drops, suspended in mucilage. Cold may be applied to t the hypogastrium, perineum, or within tbe rectum by injection. I am iiin favour of ice-cold water enemata. The management of the blood '•collected in the bladder has given rise to a diversity of opinion. It is