499 ARTIFICIAL ANUS. the intestinal canal, altliough allowing a portion of its contents to escape. This condition is sometimes distinguished as fcBoal fistula. Slouo-hing of the entire circumference of the intestine usually occurs at the mouth of the sac ; the continuity of the canal is destroyed, and all the feculent matter escapes through the opening. The coats of the bowel are endowed with different powers of resistance to the process of ulceration whereby the slough is detached. Thus, by constriction of the bowel, a sulcus or groove is produced on its serous surface, without any trace of abrasion ; but the mucous membrane presents a circular line of ulceration. This is sometimes limited to the upper and distended end of the intestine; the lower end, corresponding to the stricture, being unaffected. This difference may be owing to pres- sure of the distended bowel, and it occurs particularly where the knuckle of intestine lies in close relation with Gimbernat's ligament. Very rarely, as the result of long-continued constriction, and the pressure upon two portions of intestine laterally, their walls become adherent; ulceration follows, and the continuity of the canal is thus naturally restored within the abdomen. An illustrative case is recorded in the " Trans. Path. Soc," vol. x. Intermediate conditions, between these two extremes, are met with ; in which more or less of the circumference of the tube is destroyed, and a corresponding opening produced. In the first condition referred to, repair frequently takes place ; the hole closes, the integument heals, and complete recovery results. In the second condition, frequently, an artifical anus is at length established; and which never, or very rarely, undergoes spontaneous cure. Its completion is as follows:—The margin of the intestinal aperture—whether the whole or a portion only of the calibre of the intestine—becomes firmly adherent to the abdominal peritoneum ; the openings of the upper and lower end of the canal are, at first, equal in size and lie nearly in the same line. Subsequently, they unite at a more or less acute angle, presenting an interme- diate spur-like portion or partition, of double-walled gut, opposite the mesen- teric attachment, and bisecting the aper- ture externally. (Fig. 782.) Of these two openings thus leading into the canal, the distal one, gradually ceasing to trans- mit faeces, becomes smaller, and the por- tion of intestine atrophies; whilst the gastric end, doing double duty, becomes dilated and thickened. The partition elongating, and acting as a valve, turned towards the distal end, it tends to ob- struct the intestinal passage of faeces; and thence the relative size of the two open- ings is still further exaggerated. Around ; the general aperture, the mucous mem- brane sometimes acquires an everted, protruding appearance, or an actual pro- lapsus of the membrane may take place; while the surrounding skin is puckered, and is irritated and excoriated by the feculent matter Fig. 782.