326 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. Sd'fbttti.\T^^^ "PP^^ --easing rapidly both m bulk and extent. The mother of the ^irl had suffered Ind™ h cMlTe^'r '"'^ r'"^^"^ ^^^^^ ^efor.it/but was deadi ana the child s relatives would not assent to any operative interference Pig Fig. G92. •which will doubtless have to be resorted to hereafter, on a more exten- sive scale, and which might, perhaps, have arrested its further spread. Long-continued irritation about the roots of a tooth will sometimes give rise to a thickening of the bone around it. These enlargements of the bone are generally slightly tender on pressure. Another form of exostosis (painless and free from tenderness) is common on the inner aspect of the lower jaw, nearly opposite to the ends of the roots of the teeth. These exostoses are apt to be symmetrical on the two sides of the mouth, and occur over the sockets of sound teeth, with which they have, in fact, no relation; they rarely attain to such size as to cause material inconvenience. Vasctdar Tumours, like small n^vi, often occur between the necks of teeth ; they bleed on the smallest touch, and are troublesome to extirpate, as from their situation it is often impossible to get beyond their bases without the sacrifice of sound teeth. Potassa fusa is the most efficient caustic for their destruction. In Mercurial Salivation the gams are swollen and red, and in severe cases deeply ulcerated and sloughing. The treatment for this condition hardly falls within the scope of this article, but it is mentioned here because, especially in uncleanly mouths and in unhealthy subjects, effects somewhat similar have been observed where artificial teeth carried upon red vulcanite (which is coloured by vermilion) have been worn. At the instance of the late Dr. Bathurst Woodman, a committee of the Odontological Society collected a large mass of evidence upon this subject, with the result of failing to find the smallest valid evidence of this irritation having anything to do with the presence of mercury in the vulcanite ("Trans. Odont. Societv," 1877). ^ Odontalgia.—The occurrence of pain, referred either to a tooth or to some remote part of the face or head, is that which generally brings the patient to seek relief, and the relief of this is all that will ordinarily be asked of the general Surgeon. It will be therefore con- venient to group together the various conditions which may cause pain, and to give a few hints as to the readiest means of arriving at a diagnosis.