HYDEOOELE. 811 of a pale straw colour, tliis fluid often acquires a dark-brownisli or chocolate hue, in an old hydrocele, or rarely it has a white milky colour ; in both cases becoming less transparent or opaque. In its composition the fluid is albuminous, alkaline, and saline; but there may be associ- ated fibrine in variable proportion, as indicated by spontaneous coagu- lation ; or red corpuscles of the blood, in a disintegrated state, when the fluid is dark coloured, with perhaps also flakes of cholesterine; or products of inflammation occasionally, as flakes of lymph. In point of quantity, the fluid of hydrocele varies from six to twelve or twenty ounces, averaging less than a fluid pint; but it may have accumulated to double or treble that amount. The largest quantity I have ever tapped from a hydrocele measured fifty-two ounces; the largest quantity on record was that removed from Gibbon, the historian, whose hydro- cele, when tapped by Mr. Cline, yielded six quarts ! Signs—A. collection of serous fluid in the tunica vaginalis_ is attended with a swelling on the afEected side of the scrotum, which presents certain distinctive characters. This swelling is at first soft and fiuctuating under compression with the fingers, but it becomes tense and elastic as the sac is distended; it is translucent when examined by transmitted light. Increasing in size according to the quantity of flaid secreted, the swelling varies in magnitude from a hen's egg to a small cocoa-nut; occasionally, it attains to a size which, dragging over the penis, buries that organ, and extends downwards to or towards the knees. In point of shape, the swelling is at first oval; enlarging, it becomes pyriform with the large end downwards, thus corresponding to the shape of the distended tunica vaginalis ; and there is often a slight transverse constriction about the middle of the tumour, apparently due to the lower border of the cremaster muscle, which thus gives an hour-glass appearance to the hydrocelic swelling. Little or no pain is experienced, only some tenderness in the testicle or epididy- mis ; and a sense of weight or dragging-down as the hydrocele enlarges. The mode of examining a hydrocele is very simple. Having handled the swelling to ascertain its fluid character, by fluctuation or elasticity,, the translucency may be shown by grasping the posterior part of the tumour, so as to render the integument of the fore part tense; then placing a lighted candle on the one side of the tumour and looking- through it from the opposite side, at the same time screening any direct light from the eye, by resting the hand edgewise along the front of the scrotum. Varieties of Hydrocele are met with, in consequence of changes in the sac, or the contained fluid. These changes are chiefly found in old hydrocele. Thickening of the sac often takes place, the tunica vagi- nalis acquiring the resistance of pasteboard; sometimes it becomes cartilaginous, or even osseous by the formation of bony plates on its interior. A hilocular or multilocidar condition of the sac sometimes occurs; either as a result of pouch-like dilatations (Fig. 942), or of inflammmatory adhesions of the interior and the formation of septa, dividing the sac into two or more compartments. The serous fluid is liable to undergo the changes of colour and opacity already noticed. Under these circumstances, fluctuation and translucency of the tumour become less and less marked as signs of hydrocele. The test by transmitted light may, however, yet be available when the examina- tion is conducted in a darkened room.