SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 324 fied, in fact—by tbe secretion of the gums, and subsequently mechanic- ally removed ; and that there is no softened layer simply because it is rubbed away as fast as it softens. And that a somewhat closely similar effect can be brought about without the use of the tooth-brush is shown by its occurrence in certain seals. Besides loss of substance thus brought about, the teeth may be wasted by their whole surface being attacked. Of this rare form of erosion I have seen two instances ; the one in a case of acute dyspepsia, the other in the case of a young lady accidentally poisoned, with the effect of leaving long-continued gastric irritation. In the worst case the teeth were very tender, in the other there was no alteration of sensibility of the teeth; in both there was marked loss of enamel, just as though the crown of the teeth had been immersed for a short time in acid, and the enamel which remained had lost polish to a slight extent. Little more than an average amount of caries has occurred in the first-mentioned case, recovery to perfect health having been speedy; in the second case sufficient time has not elapsed to enable me to speak upon this point. The rational treatment would seem to be the free use of alkaline washes, but in most cases the mischief would be done before it was discovered, and it is doubtful whether we could successfully combat the perpetually reproduced acidity by washes used at intervals. Diseases of the Gums and Alveolar Processes. Extensive caries of the teeth is very commonly associated with, if not caused by, a highly vascular, soft, swollen condition of the gums, which, secrete abundantly a bighly viscid saliva. Though this state of things is usually associated with general derangement of health, and particularly of digestion, the use of mildly alkaUne and astringent tooth-powders and washes seems often markedly beneficial. The thin edges of the gums, where they come into contact with the teeth, are liable to a form of creeping ulceration, very painful and tender, and oftentimes accompanied with much neuralgic pain in the side of the face. When neglected, these ulcers may become extensive, and the cheek, where it comes in contact with them, may also ulcerate. This sometimes occurs in otherwise healthy persons, but is more com- mon in the debilitated. Besides attention to general health, chlorate of potash should be given (best in the form of lozenges), but the main reliance must be placed upon the immediate destruction of the un- healthy surfaces. A single application of a solution of nitrate of silver (a drachm to the ounce) will generally bring an ulcer into a healing condition; but the mouth should be carefully searched every day, and every fresh spot at once touched, as well as any old ones not presenting healing margins. With such care the cure is speedy, but, if neglected, it may drag on for weeks. A trivial source of irritation, such as an abrasion or other injury to the gums, or a half-erupted wisdom tooth, may serve as a starting-point for this form of ulcerative stomatitis, which, in a severe case, may extend all around the mouth and even the palate—in rare cases resulting in extensive necrosis of the subjacent bone; in one case, at least, in death. Ulcerations of the gums and inner surface of the lips, occurring in syphilitic persons, affect very much the same spots, but differ in the