807 ELEPHANTIASIS OP THE SCROTUM. haps witli a beaded varicosity of these vessels. They are distended with a milky, lacteal fluid, like chyle. Miscroscopic examination shows that the fibroid deposit consists of immature fibres, combined with an abundance of lymph-cells, in various stages of development into fibres. Taking the clinical appearances of lymphatitis in connection with this increased production of lymph-cells, it would seem that such may be the essential and initial change in the pathology of elephantine disease ; giving rise to a species of fibroid hypertrophy of the part affected—allied to a fibrous tumour of the skin and subareolar tissue. In relation to the influence of climate, it should be observed that this form of elephantiasis is common in Eastern countries, such as Arabia, India, Asia, and Africa, but is rarely seen in any part of Europe. It is a disease more often of early or adult life than of old age ; and it occurs more frequently in males than females. The course of this disease presents few changes to be noticed. Remaining pi-obably for life, an elephant-leg may undergo no further enlargement during many years ; or it may grow steadily until it attain an enormous bulk and weight, amounting perhaps to fifty, seventy, or even one hundred pounds. But beyond the encumbrance thus oc- casioned, the general health is little disturbed, nntil ulceration takes place, and a draining purulent discharge, under which the patient may sink exhausted. In regard to the treatment of elephantiasis, but little can be done. The appropriate remedies for chronic inflammation are the most hopeful. Thus, in an early stage, topical bleeding by leeches or scarification may have some beneficial effect. But as the solid oedema supervenes, this must be reduced, if possible, by stimulant applications ^ as by encasing the leg with a blister, or by painting with iodine pigment, repeated occasionally. The combined advantage of pressure with stimulation may be tried by means of strapping with the em- plastrum ammoniacum cum hydrargyro ; and the various preparations of iodine and mercurial ointments may be employed by inunction. An irritant plan of treatment has, however, the disadvantage of perhaps provoking ulceration of the leg, the ulcer being obstinately indisposed to heal. Compression of the limb, simply by bandaging, might there- fore be more judicious. And, in any case, an elevated position, for the relief of tension, should not be overlooked. These local measures may be aided by the constitutional influence of mercurials. No satisfactory results have hitherto attested the efficacy of thus attempting to arrest the growth of elephantiasis. It has been proposed to ligature the main artery of the limb^—the femoral, in order that, by withholding the supply of blood, the hypertrophied part may cease to grow, and become atrophied. But the free collateral circulation, owing to the enlarged state of the blood-vessels throughout the limb, would alone render the propriety of this operative procedure very doubtful. In the few instances where it has been resorted to, the results, I believe, have not been very encouraging. Elephantiasis or Htpertropht of the scrotum rarely occurs in this country, but is very common in tropical climates ; especially China, India (East and West), Egypt, and South America. It consists of a fibroid thickening of the scrotal integument, with infiltration of serum or oily matter; the latter being sometimes so abundant as to give to