839 FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS OF THE TESTICLE. wear for fhe ostensible purpose of stopping seminal emissions. Of course, the pain of approaching strangulation, daily increasing, daily compelled the patient to visit his merciless torturer; and when the poor victim came to me, his penis had become swollen to the size of a saveloy sausage, burying the vice, and the integument was rapidly passing into gangrene. I removed this instrument of torture, only just in time to save the organ. Sjjasmoclic Spermatorrhoea differs only from the more passive form, of seminal emissions in the increased irritability of the ejaculatory and erector muscles of the penis, and of the prostatic portion of the urethra where the ejaculatory ducts open. It is not unfrequently coexistent with some disease of the generative organs,—stricture, varicocele, or neuralgia of the testicle, which may be the source of local irritation. Residence in a hot climate seems to have some predisposing influence ; and the affection occurs usually at a later period of life than passive emissions in men, from the ages of twenty-live to forty. Treatment.—The removal, if possible, of any source of _ irritation is the primary indication. Thence, the habit of masturbation must be corrected, whenever its practice can be discovered ; and the patient should be encouraged to make a confidential acknowledgment respect- ing a matter of such vital consequence to his health and happiness. The influence of evil example should also be withdrawn, in youth; and the mind of an adult patient may have to be disabused of the groundless apprehensions which have been instilled into it by some rapacious impostor. Any source of local irritation, as a cause of spermatorrhoea, must be removed when practicable. Remedial treatment comprises both constitutional and local measures. Constitutional treatment consists in the administration of tonics to restore a healthy state of both the muscular and nervous systems, and in the use of sedatives to allay irritability. Of tonics, the preparations of iron are most efficacious ; and particularly the sesqui- chloride of iron, in doses of from fifteen to thirty drops in half a wine- glassful of water thrice daily. Strychnia, in doses of one-twelfth of a grain, made into a pill, with or without the sulphate of iron, forms a tonic anti-spasmodic preparation of great value. Sedatives are^ less beneficial than tonics; yet, in spasmodic spermatorrhoea, a night pill of belladonna, or of hyoscyamus and camphor, may perhaps be advan- tageously given to subdue the local irritability which favours the seminal emissions. Suppositories of pil. saponis, ten grains, are, ac- cording to my experience, preferable as acting topically. The cold hip-bath, or sluicing the perineum with cold water, night and morning, is a most serviceable local tonic. Hygienic measures must also be care- fully attended to, as a part of the constitutional treatment. A plain, unstimulating, nutritious diet is essentially requisite; rigorously excluding peppers and other condiments, which are apt to irritate tho rectum and provoke seminal emissions during defECcation. The stomach should never be overloaded by a heavy meal; and a daily action of the bowels should be secured by gentle aperients, when neces- sary. A dinner pill, consisting of the compound rhubarb pill with hyoscyamus, will answer this purpose far better than colocynth or any other irritant purgative. The invigorating influence of daily exercise in the open air, and of outdoor amusements, with perhaps change to a bracing climate, can scarcely be overlooked; but relaxation from.