ORGANIC STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 773 Fig. 922. stifcutipnal disturbance, can be forcibly dilated or ruptured up to the natural size of the urethra and without producing any such symptoms. Forcible dilatation is effected by means of distending instruments, . which when passed through the stricture exert an expanding force from within outwards. Such force may be accomplished by a series of instruments, consisting of sliding tubes, passed successively over a slender urethral director or guide, which is first passed through the stricture; or, it can be effected by means of a single instrument which expands in situ. Sliding tubes were originally employed by Desault (1797), and afterwards by Dr. Buchanan, of Glasgow (1831), Dr. Hutton, of Dublin (1835), and by Maisonneuve (1845). Mr. Thomas Wakley, with whom this mode of treatment was origin- ally identified in this country, contrived a series of accurately fitting tubes and a urethral director. This having been first passed through the stricture, each sliding tube, in succession, cannot fail to take the same course. The difficulty, and the risk, will always be to first introduce the slender director through a tight stricture; a difficulty proportionate to the degree of contraction, and the existence of false passages, or the liability of making them. Single instruments of various kinds have been devised, which expand m sittt, in the place of several instruments of increasing calibre; and thus save the necessity of passing them successively through the constricted part of the urethra. With this object, Mr. Luxmore (1812) employed diverging metal rods; Leroy d'Etiolles the same method, some years later, and Perreve a somewhat similar plan (1847). Dr. Neil Arnott, on the same piunciple, commenced the employment of fluid expansion (1819). Both these forms of contrivance —the series of sliding tubes and the single expanding instruments—have a similar action upon the urethra,— distension of the contracted portion from within its area. They thus diifer from the large conical metallic bougie formerly used for the purpose of forcible dilatation, which was driven into the stricture ; thereby running the risk of pushing the stricture down the canal and detaching its connections, and inevitably inducing inflammation and severe constitutional disturbance. Rupture or Splitting of the Urethra.—Mr. Holt has recently revived this mode of forcibly opening stricture of the urethra. It seems to be most applicable to tight stric- ture, toithout much induration; so that the plastic deposit does not form a mass too thick or dense to be entirely ruptured. Rupture may, therefore, possibly supersede the necessity for division by a cutting operation. The " dilator " (Fig. 922) used by Mr. Holt is pre- cisely similar to that of Perreve. Its construction, and his mode of operating, he thus describes :—The instru- ment consists of two grooved blades fixed in a divided handle, and containing between tliem a wire welded to tlicir united point; on this wire a tube — which when introduced between tho