SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 2G8 cellular texture and skin of the nose sometimes occurs, arising apparently from enlargement of tlie sebaceous follicles, each to the size perhaps of a pea; and which is accompanied with some dilatation of the arterial capillaries, but more so of the veins, and with sevtms infiltration or fibrinous deposit; thus presenting a large, reddish-blue, and somewhat soft, lobulatcd, and pedunculated mass at the end of the nose. (Fig. 660.) This inconvenient and unsightly mass is of slow growth and not dangerous; but the monstrous deformity will compel the unhappy individual to seek relief. It occurs seldom before fifty years of age, and in a somewhat broken constitutional state of health. Removal with the knife is the only remedy, and a tolerably easy one. An incision is made in the middle line of the nose, and the mass ■carefully dissected off the alar cartilages on either side, an assistant introducing his finger into the nostril to support the cartilage. Hemorrhage is arrested without much trouble, or a general oozing may be stopped by plugging the nostrils and overlaying a Unt-compress, secured by a double-headed roller bandage. The wound usually heals by granulation. Listen removed such growths in several cases, with permanently successful results ; in only one instance the operation Fio. G60,* Fig. GGLf had to be repeated, for return of the disease after the lapse of ten (2.) Cancer, occasionally, affects the nose, in the form of scirrhous •or encephaloid; but more often as epithelial cancer. These forms of growth present the same apjiearances as elsewhere. Treatment must be conducted in accordance with general principles. (3.) iMjms Exedens, or noli me tangere, seems to have a special affinity for the nose ; it is an insidious and obstinate tuberculous ulceration of the skin, and which produces frightful havoc, by the destruction of one or both alss, the columna, or the whole of the oi'gan (Fig. 661); -at length even involving the whole face in one common ruin. If the disease be ai'rested and cicatrization ensues, the remnant nose rappears truncated obliquely from above the nostrils, exhibiting two dark cavernous apertures with a thin-skinned, reddish, shining cicatrix —a hideous spectacle. The ongiii and j)rogress of this disease—with relation to an early * After Liston. t Royal Free Hospital. (Author.)