EMPYEMA. PAKACENTESIS THORACIS. 431 The sig^is are dulness on percussion and absence of the respiratory murmur at tlie lower part of the chest, tip to the level of the fluid; this varying with the upright or recumbent position of the patient, ^gophony—a bleating or reedy voice-sound, something like Punch's voice—is heard at the upper part of the chest; owing probably to a thin layer of fluid rising np between the two layers of pleura, through which the voice is transmitted, as a broken vibratory voice, from the larger bronchial tubes. Pus continuing to collect in the pleura, the line of percussion-dulness gi-adually rises higher and higher; until the whole side of the chest emits a wooden sound on percussion, and neither breath nor voice sound can be heard. The affected half of the thorax is increased in size, visibly and palpably, and as shown by measurement, compared with the opposite side. The ribs are elevated, and the intercostal spaces are widened and bulge outwards ; while the lung is compressed backwards towards the spine, becoming consoli- dated like unto the consistence of india-rubber, and ultimately perhaps not larger in size than a fist. Empyema of the left pleural cavity ■ displaces also the heart towards the right side ; or, if it occur on this side, the liver is depressed by the pleural accumulation. On either side, . empyema may displace and compress the opposite lung. The respira- • tory movements are restricted on the side of empyema, and dyspnoea ; is more or less urgent as the disease progresses. Hectic fever results 1 from continued suppuration. The abscess usually points and bursts . externally, between the ribs; or, having become extra-pleural, the pus ; diffused in the cellular texture may burrow among the muscles of the 1 back, or find its way into the abdomen, beneath the peritoneum, and i even thence down into the pelvis. Treatment surgically consists in evacuation of the imprisoned fluid Paracentesis Thoracis.—Tapping the chest is an operation for the ■ evacuation of any fluid—air, blood, serous fluid, or pus—collected in : the pleural cavity ; but it is especially and iHore commonly performed t for the relief of the latter accumulation,—empyema. The spot selected for puncture is wherever the abscess may have : pointed, or where there is decided dulness,—that the lung shall not be t wounded ; and the place usually chosen is in the fifth intercostal space 3 at about its middle on the side of the chest. This about corresponds t to the insertion of the serratus magnus. A valvular opening is made I m the skin, by drawing it upwards with the finger, from the lower to f the upper margin of the sixth rib, a slight incision being made at this .^^^^P°^^^ of a bistoury; a large-sized, flat-shaped trocar (Hig. /6»; IS then thrust directly over the iip2Jer margin of the rib, Fig. 758. thus avoidmg the intercostal artery, and passed through the pleura The trocar is withdrawn and the fluid drawn ofl: through the P.n^?^' •Air IS hableto enter the thorax towards the end of te streaT havmg become almost dribbling, air mav then bo snnE,^ f li Pl^nra during expiration, to m% the th^ora^c sp^c^t^ccr^^edt