638 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. pota^ssiuTScn °^ ^'^'^'^^ (^^Cl). Chloride of potassium (KLl). Chloride of ammonium (mi,Cl).~ Physical Microscopical Gharacters.~T\ve chlorine is, for the most mr^ in combination with sodium, and the chloride of sodium reTdfly crvltaT lizes. By evaporating a drop or two of urine on a slip of gkst crystals are obtained in the octo- hedral form, distinguished from those of oxalate of lime by their principal axis being longer, and by not polarizing light. Half-octo- hedra, which are occasionally stri- ated, is another form. Dodeca- hedra, or twelve-sided crystals, are the rarest form. By evapora- tion also, or from a solution of the ash of urine, the salt often crys- tallizes in the form of crosslets ni ■ T daggers. (Fm. 868 ) Chemical Tesfe.—Mtrate of silver, in solution, is a handy test for the presence, or qualitative determination, of chloride of sodium in .One caution only is required: to strongly acidulate the urine with nitric acid, m order to prevent the precipitation of phosphate of silver; or the nitric acid may be added after the nitrate of silver dichum)"^ phosphate of silver will be immediately dissolved (Thu- The quantity may be determined, either by weighing the white precipitate—chloride of silver; or volumetrically, by noting the quantity of a solution of nitrate of silver, of known and appropriate strength, required to separate the whole of the chlorine. Sugar (G-^^B.^.O^^) in Ueine. Diabetes mellitm is the ex- pression sometimes used for that disease whereof sugar in the urine IS the sign; and this attributive title seems necessary to distinguish ordinary diabetes from a variety contra-designated Diabetes insipidus. In the former, farinaceous matters are probably converted into dextrin and thence at once into grape-sugar; but there is some reason believe that this succession of metamorphoses may be interrupted, and that an insipid sugar is then formed intermediately between dextrin and sugar of milk (Bence Jones). This tasteless sugar resembles sugar of milk, differing from it in not giving rise to mucic acid and m undergoing fermentation. It can be converted into grape- sugar by the action of acids. Diabetes insipidus has received other names—Polydipsia (Bec- querel). Diuresis and Hydruria (Willis). The secretion thus signified, ot a large quantity of watery urine, is probably a distinct disease. Aqueous diabetes commonly occurs in connection with hysteria; and the term hydruria distinguishes it from azoturia, of which disease an excessive excretion of urea is the prevailing characteristic. The absolute amount of urea excreted in the twenty-four hours may be increased m hydruria; no sample, however, of such urine contains its normal proportion to the water secreted. Physical Characters of Urine.—Clem, pale-straw, or greenish tint; sweet smell and taste; specific gravity high, averaging r040, and the