OPERATION OF JOINT-EXCISION. 11 the ordinaiy mode o£ excision. Looking at the ultimate state of the joint, evidence is wanting to show any superiority; that the articular ends of the bone are reproduced, or greater range of motion obtained. Nor, as I have said, would the reproduction of bone in length add pro- portionately to the usefulness of the upper extremity; while ossific anchylosis would be positively disadvantageous. Respecting the shoulder-joint, in one remarkable case by Oilier, more than four inches of the shaft was removed with the head of the humerus ; yet the ulti- mate shortening was only half an inch. In the shafts of Bones, very successful results have been obtained ; after sub-periosteal excision of the femoral shaft, to a large extent, by Mr. Joseph Bell, of Edinburgh; and in similar operation on the tibia, the whole diaphysis has been successfully removed by Dr. Cheever, of Boston, and by Letenneur, Larghi, and Crus y Manso. Excision compared with Amputation.—The merits of excision in the treatment of diseases of the joints, are generally estimated by com- parison vsdth amputation of the limb, as if the two were alternative operations. Now, the incurability of joint-disease by non-operative treatment is indeed the condition eligible either for excision or for amputation. Bat in what does such incurability consist ? The whole diversity of opinion and experience among Surgeons in l-egard to the propriety of excision versus amputation springs from a twofold view of the nature of the state in question. Thus, scrofulous disease of the knee-joint may be considered incurable, without operative interference, when the disease has advanced only to destruction of the articular cartilaginous surfaces of the tibia and femur without the supervention of anchylosis, so that the joint has become functionally useless; or, the same disease may not be regarded as incurable until it has ad- vanced to a farther and even to an extreme state of disorganization— dislocation (partial or complete), abscess, sinuses, profuse and long- continued discharge, with the constitutional disturbance of hectic and exhaustion. The turning-point of distinction between these two opposite states of the same disease is this: in the one case the joint has become functionally useless ; in the other, to this condition is generally superadded a constitutional state of exhaustion which leaves no period of time nor vital reserve-power sufficient for any prolonged process of reparation after operation—averaging at least three months for the knee and hip, and six weeks for the elbow. But this measure of time and of reserve-power are the essential elements of that reparative process which will inevitably be necessary to effect osseous or ligamentous union, as the case may be, and thence a successful result after excision. Consequently, compared with ampu- tation, the operation of excision, under the adverse circumstances of advanced disease, will be singularly unsuccessful; whilst, at an earhj period, recourse to amputation is unnecessary and unjustifiable. Excision and amputation for joint-disease are, therefore, not alterna- tive operations for the Surgeon's choice of one or the other. The com- paratively early period for excision is too early for amputation, and the comparatively late period for amputation is too late for excision. When either operation becomes justifiable for joint-disease, the other should not be entertained. The Natural Cure by Anchylosis is the true standard of comparison for Joint-Excision, which, when successful, also results in Anchylosis;