444 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ^^s^:^!^::^!:^::-'^'^''' °^ ^^^--^ - cystic Er^s7t:£:^Zt^^ contents, are the principal (a.) Sero.cysts.~Sijagle or multiple, thin-walled, and containing a Fig. 764 * clear, colourless, or pale yellow-tinted fluid of serous character and never tenacious! No coagulation is caused either by heat or nitric acid. These cysts originate either as new formations, or possibly from dila- tation of lactiferous ducts (Pig. 764), with which they may communicate or apl pear as perfectly closed and independent cysts. (&.) Duct-cysts,—perfectly closed or communicating with a duct, and contain- ing mucoid secretion; hence named also mucous cysts of the breast, (c.) Udactocele or m^77^-c^/sfe,—produced by dilatation of a lac tiferous duct or a smus from obstruction, or by rupture of the duct, and escape of the milk mto the surrounding connective tissue. As a cyst-formation incident to suckling, and occurring, therefore, only during the period of lactation, it is rather a rare affection. The little tumour-appearmg sometimes as an oblong, fluctuating tube, near the nipple-may enlarge perceptibly every time the infant sucks, and thus increase rapidly ; or it may remain almost stationary. The serum of the milk accumulated undergoes absorption, while the more solid fatty matter and earthy salts are deposited, causing the swelling to decreaso and become firmer or quite hard, unlike a cyst wall; or the deposit maj take the form of a lacteal calculus. ^ (d ) Hydatid cysts are occasionally met with in the breast. Mr. i^irkett verified two such cases; one in the practice of Mr. B. Cooper, and the other m that of Mr. Cooper Forster. Another instance ia recorded_ by Mr. Mitchell Henry, as having occun-ed in a woman twenty-eight years of age, and whose breast had been thus afEected for a period or five years. Symptoms.—Certain characters are common to all cysts and cystic- tumours m the breast. A single cyst presents a globular tumour, Jiavmg an elastic tension or fluctuation; more or less perceptible accord- ing to the superficial or deep situation of the cyst, and the thickness ot Its walls. Mtoltiple or compound cysts form an irregularly lobulated tumour, otherwise having the consistence of a single cyst. Cystic- tumour resembles either of these conditions, in proportion to the cystic nature of the tumour; but associated also with a solid mass, bedding or enclosing the cyst or cysts. Cysts are not essentially painful; they may become tender, owing to inflammatory action, or in nervous subjects. The skin is unaffected, excepting in the fungating tumour of proliferous cysts; and then the neighbouring lymphatic glands remain uncontaminated, and the general health is unreduced by any cachectic blood-condition. By these two particulars at least, cysts and cystic-tumours, in common with all other non-malignant growths, are distinguished from Cancer. In all doubt- * Koy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2759 a. Cystic tumour of breast. (Sir W. Fergusson.)