743 CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. also when tlie middle is principally, or alone, enlarged; this condition may escape detection by rectal exploration only. Thus, in anomalous cases, there may be a nodular enlargement, as of the right lobe and middle lobe (Pig. 910); or a circumferential ridge may be formed, as of the left lobe and middle lobe, around the vesical orifice. By Fio. 910.* FxG. 911.t tilting upwards and forwards the base of the bladder, some of the residual urine can be expelled; or by passing a catheter through the urethra, several ounces of urine—ten, twenty, thirty, forty, or more—niay be drawn off, although the act of micturition had just previously been performed. The patient, who had imagined his inability to retain, is now convinced of his inability to expel his urine,—that his bladder retains too much. Urethral exploration with a catheter will afford information which rectal exploration cannot convey, respecting the state of the middle lobe, and as to the elongation and curve of the urethra in its prostatic portion; thus completing the examination. For this purpose it is better to use, first, a full- sized catheter of the ordinary length and curve, as the standard of comparison; so that any alterations from the healthy condition may be at once made apparent. If, with no per- * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2484. Irregular enlargement of the prostate ; consist- ing of a nodular right lobe, and the middle lobe having two smaller knobs. Between these masses there is left only a narrow and ci'ooked passage to the urethra. The prostatic portion of the urethra is very deep and narrow; the caput gallinaginis is large, and diverging fasciculi pass from it to the principal prostatic enlargements. The patient was eighty-three years old, and had suffered for more than thirty years from the usual symptoms of enlarged prostate, coupled with occasional incontinence of urine, and a sense of fulness in the rectum, which he could scarcely succeed in emptying completely. Eetention of urine occurred about two months before death, but was easily relieved by the catheter. (Sir E. Home.) t «, Prostatic catheter; h, Sir W. Fergusson's curve; c, Sir H. Thompson's curve.