107 Fig. .543. AMPUTATIONS OP FINGERS. Fig. 5-12. Amputation through any of the Phalanges may be performed in like manner. And, instead of amputating at the articulation of the middle and metacarpal phalanx, it is better, having made a short dorsal and lono-er palmar flap, to cut through the middle phalanx with pliers; thus to leave the insertion of the flexor tendon to move the first phalanx, which would remain a stiff spike if the amputation were performed at the articulation. y a ■ Ampidation of the entire Finger, at the Metacarpo-phatangeal Articu- lation.—Kaving placed the hand in the prone position with the fingers, on either side of the affected one, drawn towards the palm by an assistant, the Surgeon lays hold of the finger, and entering the point of a lono- narrow bistoury or scalpel on the dorsal aspect of the meta- carpal bone, about half an inch above the head of this bone or knuckle, an incision is carried forward to the interdigital web, and round the palmar aspect of the finger; the knife is then turned obliquely back- wards along the interdigital web of this side also, to join the dorsal incision. A kind of looped incision is thus formed, embracing the root of the finger from above the joint, and there including an angular portion of integument. The oval flap is easily drawn back, the extensor tendon divided across, and the linger disarticulated. (Pig. 642.) This, the oval method of amputation, may be converted into a V incision, by depressing the knife slightly into the ]ialm, converging towards the middle line, then diverging again towards the web on the opposite side, and thence upwards into the dorsal incision. The resulting linear cicatrix is less puckered than by the oval method. A 'third method consists in directing the edge of the knife on the web, close to the finger, and by an incision backwards towards the middle line, on the dorsum and into the palm, the joint is reached ; the blade is then passed round the head of the phalangeal bone, and brought out- wards through the web on the opposite side. This method, though simple and rapid, requires practice. In either way, disarticulation is aided by using the finger as a lever. The bulky head of the metacarpal bone had better then be removed with bone-pliers, introduced from the dorsal surface (Fig. 543), and by nipping the bone ideanly across ; unless it be the index or little linger, in regard to both of which the bone should he nipped across obliquely from without inwards, so as to conform to the outline of the hand. After lying or twisting the digital arteries, the edges of the incision readily fall together into a line, and the fingers being brought together, the gap is scarcely perceptible. A palmar splint is ap- plied, and simple dressing as usual. The Metacarpal hone may be included by carrying the incision further back ; but it is better to leave the base of the i)one,—not to open the wrist-joint, and care should be taken not to wound the palmar arch in removing the bone fi'om its bed. Several fingers, with perhaps their metacarpal bones, requiring