CONCUSSION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 397 but very slowly, became partially paralyzed in tbe lower extremities, and died three years and a half after the accident. Dr. Lockhart Clarke carefully examined the spinal cord, which presented the inflammatory congestion of the meninges, effusion, softening, and atrophy, already described. More recently, a miimte examination o£ the structural alterations consequent on concussion of the cord was made by Dr. H. Charlton Bastian. A man fell from the top of a hayrick, and had partial paraplegia, motory, but not sensory. He lived six months. ' The medulla oblongata and spinal cord were found to have undergone extensive granular degeneration. The important practical fact was, that in conjunction with such disorganization, the patient gradually recovered some power of voluntary motion in his limbs, and that sensa- ! tion remained unimpaired to the last. This case is repoi'ted in the • " Med.-Chir. Trans.," vol. 1. Symptoms.—Concussion of the Spinal cord is attended with, or fol- lowed by, symptoms of a paralytic character, wliich are essentially the j same in all cases ; but which vary in degree, according to the direct i or indirect force of the concussion, and still more in proportion to the • severity or comparatively slight intensity of the injury. (a.) Direct and severe concussion is attended with immediate and : marked symptoms. Pain at the seat of injury is felt, with loss of ■. power in the extremities below that part, and there may be relaxation of the sphincters, the f geces and urine perhaps escaping involuntarily; t and all these symptoms are accompanied with those of general Shock • to the nervous system. The symptoms may pass off in the course of a : few days, or result in complete paraplegia, of some months' duration or ] permanently irrecoverable. (&.) Direct but slight concussion is followed by similar spinal symp- \ toms, developed slowly and insidiously, in the course of several weeks ( or months; so that the causative relation between that comparatively ; slight injury and these apparently independent and serious symptoms • subsequently, may seem improbable to the patient and to those who i are unacquainted with such cases, and may be overlooked by the . Surgeon. (c.) Indirect concussion, from a general Shoch to the nervous system or I of the whole body.—Railway collision usually causes this mode of con- < cussion ; the carriage being brought suddenly to a stop, the traveller's ■ body is carried forward by its own momentum, and dashed forwards ! against the opposite side of the carriage, thence perhaps to rebound back again. Or, without any contact from collision, the body may ■ receive the shock, and the trunk be thrown backwards and forwards • with a considerable concussion, in this way also wrenching and twisting ' the spine to and fro in the nature of a sprain. A fall or jump from a height, the individual alighting on his feet or his nates, may have ; a similar effect; general concussion involving the cord and spinal : sprain. The symptoms arising from this mode of concussion are often slow 1 and insidious in their progress, weeks or months elapsing ere they ■■■ assume a marked intensity. They relate to the brain, the spinal cord, ; and the limbs. Immediately after a railway collision, an individual may suffer no apparent injury, beyond feeling generally shaken, and somewhat faint t or confused; and this disturbance may soon pass off, leaving the person