SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. G48 Fliosphoric Acid and Phosphates—Treatment.—Gaiiedi by its patho- logical origin, an excess of phosphoric acid, in combination with alka- line or earthy bases, suggests, primarily, the endeavour to arrest, if possible, that destructive metamorphosis of nervous tissue which gene- rates phosphoric acid in abnormal quantity. Consequently, temporary freedorn, at least from all anxiety and corroding care—in short, mental relaxation—is primarily imperative. But the phosphatic diathesis is encouraged by vegetable food. A more animal diet, therefore, with beer and wine, is scarcely less imperative. Deposition of the Phosphates—phosphatic urine implying, as it does, an alkaline state of this fluid—suggests the use of mineral acids. The nitric and nitro-muriatic acids, diluted, are the most useful. They are generally combined with vegetable tonics, as cinchona, and with apparent advantage. Opium also will aid in restoring acidity to the urine, besides subduing nervous excitement. Benzoic acid has been highly recommended, it being converted into hippuric acid during its passage through the system. The earthy phosi^hates, i.e. of lime and magnesia, are thus held in solution and become invisible; the alkaline phosphates, i.e. of soda and potash, never appearing. But the deposi- tion of the former is effected by an excess of fixed alkali—soda or potash—in the urine. Another occasion of phosphatic urine is an i nflammatory state of the urinary mucous membrane, with the secretion of mucus, which, acting apparently as a ferment, induces the decom- position of urea and liberation of carbonate of ammonia—a volatile alkali. The urine thus becoming alkaline, deposits the triple phos- phate of ammonia and magnesia with phosphate of lime. As regards the mere deposition of these (earthy) phosphates, mineral acids will, in like manner, counteract this tendency. Alkalies, however, have been recommended by Dr. Owen Rees, with the view of reducing the acidity of the urine as secreted, thus preventing its irritating the mucous membrane of the bladder. Less mucus is secreted; and the urine in the bladder actually becomes more acid. Preventive Treatment is determined by precisely the same consider- ations respecting the generation of phosphoric acid in excess, and thence the formation of phosphates in excess; and also respecting the deposition of (earthy) phosphates in the urine, whether by fixed or volatile alkali. Oxalic Acid, and Oxalates—Treatment.—Considering the certain pathological origin of oxalic acid in excess, by the piimary mal- assimilation of sugar and sugar-forming food, such food is contra- indicated. Every species of vegetable food is questionable; and those which contain oxalic acid, e.g. rhubarb, sorrel, onions, and tomato, or certain medicines, e.g. alkaline salts with a vegetable acid, are un- (juestionably forbidden. Considering also the probable production of this acid in excess, by the destructive metamorphoses of the nitro- genous tissues in secondary mal-assimilation, and its association with, or derivation from, lithic acid, a nitrogenous diet would seem to be contra-indicated. Nevertheless, experience ^hows that animal food, with brandy-and-water instead of beer or wine, form a suitable diet; but the water should be distilled, to deprive it of lime, with which the oxalic acid otherwise combining would lead to the formation of a urinary calculus. Appropriate medicinal treatment will aid regimen. The mineral