774 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. blades corresponds to the natural calibre of tbe urethra—is quickly passed, and thus ruptures or splits the obstruction. Having introduced the instrument, and reached the bladder, it should be gently rotated, to prove that the end is fairly within that viscus ; and being thus assured, the Surgeon is next to place the point of the tube he had previously selected, upon the wire between the blades, and thrust it quickly onwards to the end. The stricture being now fairly split, the dilator should bo rotated, to still further separate the sides of the rent, and then be with- drawn ; a catheter, corresponding to the mimber of the tube, being substituted for the purpose of removing the urine. The catheter is then withdrawn, the patient treated with quinine and opium for tho first twenty-four hours ; and the same catheter introduced occasionally perhaps during that period, to prevent any risk of urinary infiltration in micturition; or in forty-eight hours, to maintain dilatation ; and again on alternate days for a week or two, gradually lengthening the interval. Voillemier's instrument differs from Holt's in an important particular : the tube is provided with lateral grooves, so as to slide along tho blades, instead of upon a central wire-conductor; the expanded in- strument thus assumes a circular, instead of an oval form, whereby the dilating force is expended equally upon the whole circumference of the urethral canal. The results of this procedure in the hands of Mr. Holt have been eminently successful; and the experience of other Surgeons has gene- rally confirmed its value. I have not seen much constitutional dis- turbance follow the operation of splitting the urethra ; but in one case, operated on in another Hospital, exti^avasation of urine ensued, for which I treated the patient at the Royal Free Hospital, and he recovered. Many deaths, however, have, I believe, occurred,—Mr. Teevan says fifteen in number, which have not been recorded in the Reports of Cases hitherto published. It would also be very desirable to diagnose more correctly the pathological conditions of stricture operated on,—if indeed they can always be determined clinically; since it will be obvious that the mere splitting up a number, say some scores, of nrethrge, many of which were perhaps scarcely strictured at all, can have nothing to do with the propriety or eligibility of this mode of treatment. The splitting of urethras, in almost a healthy state, would necessarily swell the resultant proportion of, apparently, successful cases. I do not apply this remark to Mr. Holt's cases, but to an extraordinarily large series which has been published. Sir H. Thompson has contrived a screw-distending instrument for this operation, audit seems to possess three advantages:—distension of the stricture alone is accomplished, without involving the healthy portion of the urethra in its action ; the distension, as indicated by the scale near the handle, can be carried to a cahbre of 14 or 16 of the catheter scale, beyond the size which the external meatus will admit, and is thus more efficient; and the distending force is applied very slowly, continuing from seven to ten minutes before reaching the maximum point of distension,—the object being to overstretch the morbid tissues as much, and to rupture them as little, as possible, in order to destroy, or greatly impair, the natural tendency of the stricture to undergo contraction. Another screw-distending instrument, devised by Dr. J. Thebaud, of New York, is worthy of notice. The terminal portion consists of