SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 682 blades of the instrument; a gush of water now takes place —if not previously, in making the prostatic incision—and thus the st^ne may sometimes be washed into the grasp of the forceps (B"ig. 879) • or on somewhat dipping the forceps, usually with a sort of sweep from 'left to right across the fundus of the bladder, the stone is at once caught and seized, whereby the instrument feels suddenly locked. Failinc^, in either of these ways to catch the stone, it should be gently sought°for and touched with the forceps. It may then be seized by one of two manoeuvres, as in lithotrity; either by depressing the fundus of the bladder with one blade, and giving a slight shake, when the stone will fall into the grasp of the instrument; or, by sliding the blades along the side of the stone, then opening them, and turning the opened blades over to that body, it will be seized almost with certainty. The size of the stone may be estimated by observing how far the handles are separated. If it seem to be seized in its long diameter, and too large for extraction, the stone may be shifted by a jerk of the forceps, or disengaged and reseized, so as to be extracted without lacerating or bruising the neck of the bladder. For seizing and extracting the stone, various shaped forceps aiti Fig. 880. sometimes useful; those constructed by Messrs. Matthews, for Sir W. Fergusson, are here represented (Fig. 880) ; the angular instruments being adapted for keeping the operator's hand out of the line of in- cision, in the act of extraction. Extraction should be performed slowly, and by working the instru- ment gently backwards and forwards to gradually dilate the prostatic aperture ; bearing downwards also in the direction of the axis of the pelvis (see Fig. 879), in order that the widest part of the arch of the pubes may be available for the extraction, and the lower part of the perineal incision which facilitates this concluding part of the operation. The forceps lie in the axis of the pelvis, and are withdrawn in the same