DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 137 inflammation accompanied with gangrene and slonghing. Such, in fact, in a minor degree, is fnrunculus aad, in a more exasperated form, carbuncle. The normal course of inflammation, wherever it occur, is neces- sarily modified by the constitution of the individual, and inflammation of the skin forms no exception to this general rule. The chief sources of modification are—blood-poison, as in the instance of the exanthema- tous fevers, rubeola, scarlatina and variola, syphilis and elephantiasis; together with defective nutritive power and cachexia in the case of lepra vulgaris and struma, the latter comprehending lupus vulgaris. The essential modification presented by the exanthemata is regularity of course; the course of syphilis is equally precise, but less definite; and the same may be said of elephantiasis. All these examples are mere repetitions of one primary type ; that is to say, they present erythema, papulation, vesiculation, and pustulation; but they differ among themselves in that the exanthemata are acute, syphilis and elephantiasis chronic, and lepra and struma more chronic still. The acute forms end with pustulation and sometimes gangrene; the chronic forms, with the exception of lepra vulgaris, run into ulceration. This concatenation of pathological lesions is strikingly evinced by dermato- syphilis, in which the first outbreak is an erythema, the second a papule or tubercle, and the third an ulcer. The constitutional and cachectic nature of struma, which embraces lupus, is universally recognized ; and it is to an inherent constitutional debility of tissue that we must attribute lepra vulgaris. In the latter instance, chronic congestion of the skin, by inducing a fuller state of its capillaries and detaining in its tissues a larger quantity of the prime agent of nutrition, namely blood, gives rise to hypernutrition or hypertrophy; there is more or less fulness or prominence of the morbid patches, the papillae cutis are increased in bulk, but most con- spicuously there is an increment from hypertrophy of the substance of the epidermis, in the form of laminse or scales, which are white and glistening, porous and spongy. The lepra vulgaris thereby becomes identified as the type of squamous affections of the skin, and the whiteness of the scales is conveyed in its subjective synonyms— alphos and alphoides. Aberration of nutrition of the skin is evinced in its simplest form by defect of growth ; the skin may be too small for its contents, or it may be thin and, as it were, starved. Pathology affords evidence that the quantity of nerves, vessels, and succulent elements is reduced; whereas the mere vegetative constituents of the epidermis, although altered in quality, may appear in excess, partly from suspension of elimination, and partly because the formation of epidermis makes a less demand on the constitution than the more highly vitalized tissues. The condition of the skin under these circumstances may be easily predicted: it will be dry, dermato-xerasia; the accumulated epidermis will assume the appearance of the scales of the fish or of the serpent, and so the state termed ichthyosis will be established; while in other cases the superaddition of tenacious sebaceous matter to the epidermic plates increases their bulk, and constitutes the so-called ichthyosis spinosa or hystrix. Ichthyosis has been defined as an hypertrophy of epidermis, but such a definition is wholly inadmissible; as well might we define eczema as an hypertrophy of incrustation. The term hyper-