DISEASES OF THE NOSE. 269 nd correct diagnosis—may be gathered from tlie accurate description . tiven by Professor Erasmus Wilson :—Lupus exedens may attack any 'S,rt of the body, bat more commonly tho nose; beginning in the mucous membrane, or in the skin, and in the latter case breaking out UTjon the tip, the columna, or the ala. It appears as a dull red liemispheroidal papule, remaining for a long time in this condition; then uniting with other papules, a tulerde is formed, havmg a smooth surface, which desquamates from time to time, and the tubercle spreads to the adjoining skin. Suppuration takes place at the summit of this tubercle, the pus forming a crust, beneath which the suppuration extends.' Or, a crack occurs in the cuticle, exudation follows, and (hies up into a thin crust. In either case, when the crust is detached, an ulcer is presented. During this course of suppuration and ulcera- tion, the disease advances slowly to adjacent tissues; the skin becoming red 'and infiltrated, swoUen and tense, suppurative points appear at several spots, with encrustation, and separation of the scabs; thus producing an extensively ulcerated surface. Commonly, the destructive progress of this disease is restricted to the skin; yet not unfrequently, rind°when active in its course, it involves the deeper tissues, including all the soft parts in the nose, lips, and eyelids; penetrating into the cavities of the nares and mouth, it invades the bones, giving rise to terrible deformity. But the lymphatic glands remain unaffected. Sometimes the disease runs a rapid course, and is very destructive ; it lias then been designated by those who delight in the multiplicity of Latin names, L. vorax. Other forms of Lupus exhibit somewhat differential characters. Lupus non-execlens also appears as a small tubercle, but of a reddish- yellow or pale amber colour, and semi-transparent aspect; looking like a drop of jelly beneath the cuticle. Such a tubercle is singularly pain- less and inert; being attended perhaps with only a pricking or itching sensation, and remaining stationary for months. The cuticle over this tubercle desquamates or cracks, and a little oozing of an ichorous fluid forms a thin brown crust. Fresh tubercles arise around, which unite perhaps into a confluent patch, having a circular or crescentic shape; and this spreads and enlarges with the circumferential production of other tubercles. The centre of such a patch becomes flattened and depressed, the border receding around; presenting a white cicatricial appearance. Sometimes, however, the patch breaks up, in parts; the tubercles subside here and there, leaving clear spaces, with tubercles scattered irregularly over the remaining portions of the surface. Some- times, also, the tubercular origin of the disease is manifest throughout its course, and sometimes this character entirely disappears. But no ulceration takes place, as in lupus exedens, and less destruction of tissue; for the disease spreads, not in depth, but through the skin, • which is replaced by the gelatinous new-formation; its absorption ' 1 leaving a white cicatrix, permanent for life, on a j)art where no lesion of continuity has occurred, not even an abrasion of the cuticle. The parts attacked are also somewhat different in this variety of lupus; it usually begins on the cheek or upper lip, perhaps on the lobe of the <• ear, and less often on the nose. But the resulting deformity, owing i to absorption of the skin-substance and the white cicatricial appearance, I is often considerable. Thus, the tip of the nose is pointed, and the alas « are drawn up; the upper lip being raised so as to show the teeth, and