493 STRANGULATED HEENIA. hernial aperture—the stricture having been relieved. Omental adhesions may be divided a little more freely, or a small portion of omentum may even be left adherent to the neck of the sac.^ With a gangrenous condition of the intestine and omentum, the state of the bowel will determine the propriety of its reduction, or of the formation of an artificial anus. Gangrene short of sphacelus is not irrecoverable, and this more favourable condition is indicated by the bowel, however approaching to black, still retaining its peritoneal lustre and smoothness; provided the constriction of the strangulated part can be effaced by gentle manipulation, without damaging the bowel when thus affected. A nipped state of the bowel, when returned, would probably be followed by sphacelus and sloughing, with the formation of an artificial anus. When the blood-vessels can be distinguished, if they fill again, after gentle pressure between the thumb and finger, the Surgeon will be assured that the circulation has not stopped. In this state, the bowel may be returned just into the abdomen, where it will perhaps recover itself; or in the event of sloughing, the aperture may be closed by peritoneal adhesion, and the slough pass into the intestinal canal without faecal exti'avasation ; or the feeces and slough will escape through the wound, as the most un- favourable issue. Mr. Aston Key advocated this procedure. Spliacelus is of course irrecoverable, and the only difference of opinion is as to the propriety of dividing the stricture. Division has been said to be unnecessary or even injurious, and such was the opinion of Lawrence and Travers; on the other hand, division of the stricture was advo- cated by Sir A. Cooper, Key, and Dupuytren; but also that the bowel should not be returned, and a free incision made into it to allow the discharge of fasces through the wound. The liability of some portion of fascal matter to pass backwards into the abdomen, and thus induce more acute peritonitis, is, however, a serious consideration. Professor Spence, therefore—having divided the stricture freely—draws the gangrenous portion of bowel downwards beyond the constriction into the wound, and there leaves it for some hours, until the passage into the abdomen is defended by effused lymph; then he makes an incision, or rather cuts off the gangrenous portion. If the gut has already broken, a similar proceeding will be appropriate; division of tlie stricture, and the bowel left unreduced in the sac. In this state also, adhesions, consequent on peritonitis, form around the stricture at the neck of the sac; and by thus retaining the bowel in position, and pre- venting feculent extravasation backwards into the peritoneal cavity, an artificial anus becomes established. The state of the omentum, and the quantity of it protruded, will determine with regard to this structure the propriety of its reduction ; or of leaving it in the sac, or removing it. Gangrenous omentum should certainly not be returned into the abdomen; and inflamed omentum with extensive adhesions is equally unfit for reduction. But a large mass of protruded omentum, or an omental protrusion which has become hypertrophied, indurated, or otherwise changed in struc- ture, as in old hernige, are conditions in which, if returned, it would excite peritonitis. The omentum must either be left in the sac, or removed. If left in the sac, the advantage and disadvantage are these : —Usually, the omentum shrinks up, and eventually the wound healsj but with more or less of a tumour remaining at the hernial aperture \