227 HEALTHY APPEARANCES. vessels radiate from parent-trunks—the central artery, a c (Fig. 632), and vein, a b, issuing from a central point in the optic nerve. The arteries show some features of distinction from the veins. An arterial trunk has a more direct course, is of smaller calibre, and of a brighter red colotir, as compared with the adjacent vein. No pul- sation can be detected on simple inspection, but pres- sure on the globe elicits a distinct pulsation, both in the arteries and veins. The sight, in this state of the circulation, may remain un- impaired. The fovea cen- traUs, m, is the central point of the retina, and, owing to the presence of a little more pigment, is generally recog- nized as a reddish spot situated in the inverted image, a little above and to the inner side of the optic disk, the distance between the two being about two diameters of the disk. Effusion of blood or lymph at this part is always serious, however small it may be in extent, and generally produces permanent impairment of vision. (2.) Optic nerve at its ocular extremity—the Optic papilla or dish.— This structure exhibits a great variety of appearances, some of which do not affect the sight. The optic disk, af (Fig. 632), has a circular shape; forms a slight projection, as its name implies, but presents a central de- pression, a, termed the physiological cup ; and its colour, as compared with the reddish tint of the surrounding retina, is creamy white, or some- times a pinkish-grey, as in the cortical portion of the cerebral convolu- tions. The extreme margin of the disk is softly but clearly defined, and is often partially embraced by a thin line of pigment, the presence of which only indicates that the capillary layer of the choroid does not extend quite to the margin of the disk. In some instances, owing to retention by some of the optic nerve-fibres of the sheath of Schwann, tongues or processes of brilliant white colour, striated aspect, and very soft contour project as it were from the disk, and must not be confounded with recent exudation. From the centre of the nerve disk, the retinal artery and vein emerge; commonly, each as a single trunk, sometimes in two or three trunks. The vessels pass off the disk in straight or wavy hues, or sometimes form several abrupt curves on the surface of the nerve before quitting it. As age advances, the optic disk deviates from the circular form, becomes smaller in size, and of a darker tint, approaching grey. (3.) Ghoroid.—The distinctness of this tissue will depend on the * This figure shows the appearances presented by the fundus of a healthy eye when examined with the ophthalmoscope. The disk,/, is seen with a white central spot, a, which is the physiological depression or cup, and with the retinal arteries, a c, a d, and retinal veins, ah, a e, proceeding from it. At m, though much too deeply shaded, is the fovea centralis.