118 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Ftg. 570 * A tliin slice is sawn off the end of the tibia, including the two malleoli. (Pig. 5G9.) The plantar arteries are secured, also the anterior tibial or dorsal artery of the foot, and the heel-flap is brought forward to the anterior incision and retained by sutures. To prevent dropping and bagging of the flap, with a tendency to sloughing, especially if the plantar arteries have been cut off short, a broad strip of adhesive strapping should be drawn over the end of the stump, from the back to the front of the leg. An excellent stump often results, with only a transverse line of cicatrix. (Fig. 570.) In this case, retraction of the heel occurred, from the action of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, producing an intractable ulcer in the most pro- minent part of the line of union; but this was remedied by tenotomy—division of the tendo- Achillis. Professor Pirrie makes a slight modification of this amputation, by sawing off the ends of the bones, witlioiit previous disarticulation of the foot; thereby shortening the operation. Pirogofs operation is a modification of Syme's. It consists in pre- serving the posterior portion of the os calcis, which is retained in the heel-flap. This flap is reflected back about two lines ; the anterior in- cision is made, the astragalus disarticulated, and the malleoli sawn off with a thin slice of the tibia; then the saw is entered behind the astragalus on the upper and back part of the os calcis, which is sawn obliquely downwards and forwards. (Pig. 571.) The posterior portion of the calcaneum, thus left, is brought up into contact with the tibia Fig. 572. Fig. 573.t (Fig. 572); leaving the tendo-Achillis undivided, and forming a longer stump for support. The osseous surfaces may readily unite. (Pif 573.) The chief advantages of this operation are the increased length of * Koyal Free Hosp. Stump after Syme's amputation at auklc-joint. (Author.) + Koy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2817a. Stump after Pirogofi"'s amputation — aukle- . Roy joint and calcaneum. Section lunp (rartridge.)