SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 468 and distension of the peritoneum under pressure of the protruding organ,—forming the ordinary, acquired hernial sac; or it may be a pre- existing vaginal process of peritoneum, left open after birth as a mal- formation, into which sheath an organ protruding, it thus becomes a hernial sac,—the congenital hernial sac. Both kinds of sacs are illustrated by inguinal hcrniae. A hernial sac consists of two portions : the tody, or dilated portion, the lowest part of which is sometimes named the fundus; and the neck, or constricted portion, the abdominal opening into which is named the mouth of the sac. These dis- tinctive terms are convenient for description, and practically important. Varieties.—The sac may be absent in certain structural conditions of hernia;— if the protruding organ be naturally partially un- covered by peritoneum, as the c^cum or bladder; in hernia within the abdominal cavity, as by pro- trusion through the mesentery or the meso-colon, or by the formation of an adventitious band of false membrane constricting a portion of intestine ; from rupture of the sac by violence ; or as the result of ulceration. On the other hand, tv:o sacs may have formed, both having protruded through the same aperture, constituting a double hernia. One sac may be placed behind (Fig. 772), or within the other.t Occasionally, the sac may be bifurcated.J The neck of the sac sometimes consists of two constricted portions; representing the * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 1335. Double inguinal hernia—oblique, on the right side, showing two sacs, an anterior and a posterior. The former has a smaller mouth, is elongated, and is four inches in length. The posterior is larger, and nearly globular, and has a wider mouth, being an inch and a quarter in its transverse diameter. The spermatic vessels (veins varicose) and vas deferens are attached to the back of this sac and the lower part of the anterior sac; and the epigastric artery makes a wide circuit, passing roiind and to the inner side of the necks of both sacs. The patient was sixty-eight years old, and there had been symj)toms of strangulation for three days ; a small hernia had been returned on the left side, and one could be made to descend on the right side by coughing, but could be very easily returned. The symptoms of strangulation becoming ui'gent, operation was performed on the left side; and an empty sac was found in the inguinal canal. Death took place the next day; and then the smaller anterior sac, on the right side, was seen to have been pushed into the abdomen, together with a portion of in- testine, strangulated by its neck. This had probably occurred in reducing the intestine from the larger posterior sac. See also Guy's Hosp. Eeports, vol. iv. (Sir A. Cooper.) t See Ibid., 1291. Femoral hernisB; a larger old sac, a recent sac above, in the usual situation of femoral hernia; and two or three small sacs near the sides of the old one. At the bach of this specimen, and near the mouth of the recently protruded sac, on its outer side, directly over the femoral vessels, there is the appearance of another small peritoneal protrusion. A portion of the ileum, just the diameter of the bowel, was strangulated; the intestine above the strictured part is distended, that below being of its natural size. The patient, a woman, having symptoms of strangulated femoral hernia, an operation was performed, and on opening the lower sac, it was found empty; the upper recent sac, which contained the portion of strangulated bowel, was not opened, but the stricture at Poupart's ligament was divided, and the contents of the sac were readily returned. Death ensued in six hours. (J. Hunter.) X See Ibid., 1288. A large inguinal hernial sac; at its lower part branching into two pouches of equal size, one lying behind the other. (Hunterian.)