SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEllY. 248 himself of the presence of the body; for patients suffering from disease' of the middle ear often assert that there is some foreign body in the ear, although nothing abnormal is present. He should then determine, if possible, its nature, size, form, and position. "When present, it can, the meatus not being narrowed, be seen with the aid of the speculum and mirror, and the probe may then be used to ascertain whether the body is hard or soft, and whether it moves easily or not. In the latter case, it may sometimes be shaken, out by inclining the head to the side of the afiected ear, or by a sharp percussion with the one hand on the other, which is laid over the ear. But by far the most successful method, and that which carries with it the least danger, is the per- severing injection of warm water by means of the syringe, the head being inclined so as to facilitate, as far as possible, the entrance of the water behind the body. Should the latter entirely occlude the meatus, it may be necessary to change its position with the probe before using the syringe. Though this is the safest and usually the most efficient method, it may sometimes, though rarely, fail; in which case some other methods may be employed. Should it be soft, it may be extracted by a hook passed into it from the side; or, should it be too large for that, it may be fixed with a hook, and pieces of it withdrawn with a forceps. Lowenberg's method of laringing a camel's-hair pencil dipped in glue in contact with the foreign body, and allowing it to harden, BO binding the body to the pencil, may prove useful in cases in which the body is too hard or smooth for a forceps to have any hold on it, or for the entrance of a hook. If the body cannot be extracted by any of these means, as may (though very rarely) happen, and symptoms of giddiness, pain, etc., become so urgent that the removal in some manner is immediately necessary, the meatus may be entered from above, by loosening the auricle from its superior attachments, or through the mastoid process, the patient being under the influence of an anaesthetic. But such measures should only be resorted to in th.e most urgent cases. When an animal makes its way into the meatus, its movements against the sensitive drum cause great suffering to the patient. It should be immediately killed by filling the canal with warm oil or glycerine, and then removed with the syringe. Flies are liable to attack the ears where there is a discharge, and the maggots, frequently found lodged on the drum, are difficult to remove. If the drum is perforated, they may be found within the cavity of the tympanum. They must then be removed one by one with the forceps, though the syringe will generally be found sufficient where tbe drum is entire. If a vegetable substance is found in the meatus, the Surgeon should not inject fluid unless he has time to effect the removal at once, or within a short time, as, if the substance swells, it may cause unpleasant and even dangerous symptoms, and increase the difficulty of the removal. The knowledge of the principles of treatment of foreign bodies m the ear is probably the most important part of Aural Surgery to the general practitioner and student. I therefore summarize for their con- venience the rules already given, as follows :—(!.) See the body; make sure that there is a foreign body present. This, as a rule, is easily done where there has been no previous inflammation. (2.) Determine what the body is, if possible. Obtain a sample of the body supposed to be in the ear, if one is to be found. (3.) Remember that