^'^'^ SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. or the existence of a fissured fracture, indicates the probability that a krge artery, such as the middle meningeal, is involved, accompanied with compression-symptoms. This rule was sanctioned by the pkctice of Pott and Brodie, and is supported by Professor Spence's experience. A I suppuration is always a question of considerable ditliculty as to its existence and situation. This will be considered, and tae necessity of having recourse to the operation of trephining, in describing Traumatic Inflammation of the Membranes of the Brain I r^*® °* ^^"^ whatever cause, the urine should be drawn ott with a catheter, two or three times in the twenty-four hours. _ Wounds of the Brain arise from Fracture of the skull, or the simultaneous penetration of some instrument, or other foreign'body Incised Wound.—The symptomatic effects of an incised wound of the brain differ from those of concussion and compression. A great part of the brain of an animal—observes Mayo—may be gently and quietly sliced away with little or no efPect, but if ever so small a portion be suddenly crushed, the heart stops directly. Thus also with regard to wounds of the human brain. Cole, in his " Field Practice in India," narrates certain apposite facts : " The English dragoon sword is so blunt, that the strongest man cannot drive it through the head- dress of the Sikh or Afghan ; yet the enemy is most often beaten from his horse, and frequently killed by the violence of the shock. Not so however, with the trenchant blade of the Sikh; this weapon, wielded by a strong man, will cut through any head-piece, and bury itself per- haps in the brain, and yet you find no symptoms of concussion or com- pression. In the former example, the soldier is effectually disabled, often killed outright; in the latter, although the individual is mortally wounded, he may be able to continue the fight, and even to kill his antagonist, before he falls himself, dead or dying, from his horse." The seat of injury is very important; wound of the side or base of the brain, is most fatal; and in the upper portion of the brain, the fatality of injury is greater in the anterior part, but diminishes in the middle, and is least in the posterior part. An incised wound of the skull, as from a sword-cut, may offer one peculiarity with regard to treatment. A piece of bone may be detached, and adherent to a flap of integument, owing to the slanting direction of the cut. Necrosis is liable to follow such fracture, and the question will arise as to the desirability of replacing or of removing the frao-- ment. The opinions and practice of the most experienced Surgeons are here divided. Some incline to the opinion of Pare, Hennen, and John Bell, that the slice of bone may be readjusted, with the flap of integument. Other authorities agree with Dupuytren in removing the detached portion of bone, rather than incur the risk of its becoming a foreign body, and thus giving rise to intra-cranial suppuration. Probably, therefore, Guthrie's judicious consideration is better than either absolute rule ; namely, to be guided by the more or less firmly adherent connection of the bone-fragment and flap, as to whether it may be replaced, or should be removed. If only the outer table has been sliced off, exposing the diploe, but not opening the cavity of the skull, the useless fragment should certainly be removed, and the flap laid down to unite with the vascular diploe. Gunshot Wounds—Penetrating and Perforating.—Wound of the scalp, with incomplete fracture of the skull, involving only the outer