547 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. on the left side, the liver on the right side apparently preventing its formation there. The same symptoms arise as in other hernias—constipation, vomit- ino-, and pain ; but dyspnoea is more or less urgent, and perhaps a hacking cough and bloody expectoration. The diagnosis from intus- susception and internal abdominal strangulation will be scarcely pos- sible, unless the thoracic symptoms be taken in connection with the abdominal. Interesting cases are recorded by Dr. Reid in the " Edin- burgh Med. and Surg. Journal," 1840; and by Dr. Copeman, of Norwich, in the " Provincial Med. Journal " of 1865. The protrusion may become adherent, and thus remain fixed within the thoracic cavity; the urgency of the symptoms subsiding as the parts get accommodated, and the patient recovers. But strangulation commonly supervenes, and a fatal issue. Rare instances there are of apparently recurring dia- phragmatic hernia; the symptoms coming and going, and an established aperture in the diaphragm having been found after death. Treatment will be of little avail, the hernial protrusion naturally increasing and attaining a considerable size. Mr. Guthrie, with his characteristic boldness in Surgery, proposed that an incision might be made through the abdominal wall, large enough to admit the hand to draw back the stomach into its proper place. Overlooking the doubt- ful question of diagnosis, it would be difficult to prevent the liability of a protrusion through the abdominal aperture after such an opera- tion, in itself also otherwise dangerous ; and it is more difficult to understand how the replaced organ could be made to remain in its place, unless indeed the opening or rent in the diaphragm were stitched up! CHAPTER LYIII. INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. No subject in Medicine and Surgery has a more comprehensive patho- logy, and the treatment of which is more frequently unsuccessful, than intestinal obstruction. Its pathology embraces numerous and diverse structural conditions of, or affecting, the intestinal canal, and in various pox'tions of its extent; the symptoms of which in common may be simple and obvious, but their differential diagnosis is obscure ; while their course and terminations are perilous or uncertain, and the treat- ment having reference to such conditions is proportionately ineffectual or impracticable. The whole of this important but difficult subject has been ably con- sidered by Mr. Pollock, who thus classifies these intestinal conditions. Excluding external abdominal hernia3 of all kinds, the conditions, or causes, of intestinal obstruction may be divided into two classes: the acute, which generally produce most severe symptoms, early and sudden in their attack, and rapidly fatal in their results; the chronic, in which the symptoms are not at first urgent, and are more slowly