796 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. perseverance of the true Surgeon, nor the endurance of the patient, who IS too glad to get rid, even by degrees, of a most troublesome' oifensive, and socially distressing urinary leakage. But it not unfre- quently happens that a pin-hole opening only remains, defying any plastic procedure. In common with other Surgeons, I have had to contend with this difficult residue of the operation. No means of closing the aperture will, I believe, prove effectual, except the intro- duction of a red-hot wire, or better, the galvanic-wire cautery. CHAPTER LXV. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE PENIS. This organ is liable to Injuries and Diseases in common with other parts of the body, presenting, however, special features of importance; and to certain Malformations or Congenital Defects which are neces- sarily peculiar to it. Injuries.—Wounds, and Laceration, of the Penis have two important chai-acters : copious hfemorrhage, and possibly, implication of the urethra. These lesions may be produced by instruments, whether sharp-cutting, penetrating, or lacerating; or by external violence, as gunshot injury ; and they may be accidental, or sometimes vindictively inflicted, or even self-inflicted. But the tendency to reparation is remarkable, especially in the integumental portion of the organ. Hcemorrhage.—The erectile structure of the penis is not unfre- quently the source of hEemorrhage; the blood issuing either from the corpora cavernosa, the corpus spongiosum, or from both ; and in the form of a free, persistent dripping or oozing. The dorsal artery or the artery of the corpus cavernosum may, however, be the source; the blood issuing in the usual manner, as a jetting arterial stream. In extensive wounds of the penis, the blood proceeds both from the erectile structures and from the arterial trunks. The treatment will vary accordingly. Oozing hgemorrhage may be arrested by cold or astringent applications, and pressure. A large catheter should be passed into the bladder, as a means of counter- support, and compression effected by a finger-bandage or circular strips, of adhesive plaster. Compression with a pad of lint, thus retained, is sometimes sufiicient, without the resistance afforded by a catheter. Arterial hasmoi-rhage must be managed by ligatm'e; or perhaps torsion, when the vessel is free and can be well twisted with the forceps. Ru])ture of the Frcenum I have known to be caused by injury in sexual intercourse; the artery of the frgenum, being torn, may bleed profusely, even until faintness is induced. If the artery be partly torn across, its complete division, by a snip with scissors, will at once arrest the hfemorrhage ; or, if the month of the vessel fail to contract, a pledget of lint may be inserted in the angle of the wound, and the prepuce drawn forwards over it. Wound of the Urethra.—This lesion may occur as part of a pouilc