115 AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. This operation is analogous to tliat for the removal of the great toe; but the line of incision is here single. The knife is entered just behind the prominent tubercle of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and carried inwards and forwards in the oblique line of its articulation with the cuboid; thence into the fourth metatarsal interspace forward to the web of the toe, and around under the toe, back into the incision on the dorsum of the foot. The integument is dissected off, exposing the metatarsal bone, and the bone isolated; then, the toe being forcibly drawn outwards, the joint is opened in the angle of the wound, and the operation completed. Amputation of all the Toes, at their Metatarso-phalangeal Articula- tions.—This is accomplished by making a slightly curved skin-flap on the dorsal aspect, and a corresponding but larger plantar flap. In disarticulation the line of the joint offers no difficulty. Torsion will arrest the hajmorrhage from the digital arteries. Amputation of the whole of the Toes, at their Tarso-metatarsal Articu- lations.—Hey's Operation.—This amputation is performed by a dorsal incision, slightly curved downwards, and a plantar flap, the limits of which transversely are the tubercle of the metatarsal bone of the little toe and the base of the first or the tubercle of the scaphoid bone in preference ; the flap extending forward sufficiently to cover the end of the tarsal after disarticulation of the metatarsal bones. The leer is placed with the foot downwards, and steadied by an assistant; the Surgeon grasping the fore-part of the foot and feeling with his finger Fig. 560. Fig. 561. « and thumb the points of bone above mentioned, !: he makes a semilunar incision from the one to I the other across the back of the foot, cutting down « to the bone and reflecting this short flap of in- tegument. (Pig. 560.) Passing the knife under the bases of the metatarsal bones from one horn —. . Ip of the incision to the other, and transfixing the foot, a longer flap is made from the sole, extending up to the roots of the toes. (Fig. 561, 2). The irregular line of articulations is then opened with the point of the knife, while the fore-part of the foot should be forcibly depressed to ■. facilitate disarticulation. The plantar flap is adjusted with sutures, and a single cicatrix remains on the dorsal aspect of the stumo' (Fig. 562.) ^ ; This amputation—by complete disarticulation—is, more correctly, Usfranfs operation; Hey's modification consists in sawing off the projection of the internal cuneiform bone, and thus forming a more regular surface. The Surgeon should always endeavour to preserve