855 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITAL OEGANS. from the uterus. (2.) If the tumour is sessUe by a broad base, an incision may be made by knife through the capsule, and fairly mtoj^^^ substance of the tumour; and then enucleation may be completed by the fincrers, and by traction with a strong vulsellum. (3.) bessile tumours, semi-polypiform, if too large for an ecraseur, may be drawn down by a vulsellum ; and by a series of oblique incisions the tumour undergoes elongation, and thus may be brought through. This, the spiral elongation, as it is called, is often useful. (4.) The tumour may be attacked in its vitality first, and then removed by secondary enucleation. Pieces may be cut out of it, caustics inserted into it, or the actual cautery applied to it. Under one of these means, necrosis ot the tumour is set up, which, extending throughout its substance, softens it, and weakens its attachments to the uterine bed. ihen avulsion by the fingers and vulsellum may remove it altogether. Many cases thus healed have ended happily ; and could we with certainty hmit the necrotic process to the tumour, this method would have more extended application. The danger, however, of metritis and septiceemia is serious, and cannot always be averted. Whenever this method is pursued, quinine and ergot should be given to promote uterine con- traction. This may help in expelling the tumour, and m guarding against septicaemia. Normal Ovariotomy^" Battye's Operation:'—Seeing that the growth of fibroid tumours is influenced by the ovarian stimulus, _Battye and other American physicians have excised the healthy ovaries, so as to remove the stimulus. The proceeding is not altogether without cHnical recommendation. It is still sub judice. UxERmE Polypi.—^Various kinds and shapes of polypoid growths are liable to spring from the walls of the uterine cavity, (a) A sessile soft growth of small size, containing one or more mucous cysts, which con- sist of enlarged uterine follicles and hypertrophied cellular texture. Occasionally, pedunculated cysts attached to the cervix uteri: (b) a pedunculated growth of small size,—from that of a bean to a nut, soft, vascular, and often multiple, consisting of pendulous mucous mem- brane, and analogous to nasal mucous polypus ; (c) a growth of finer texture and larger size,—a nut to an egg, more or less pedunculated, and consisting of mucous membrane, vnth a large excess of cellular tissue; (d) a much firmer growth than any of the preceding, and usually of much larger size, pedunculated or sessile, its attachment usually uterine,—the common fibrous polypus; (e) recurring fibroid polypus ; (/) malignant polypus. Signs.—Haemorrhage from the vagina is the most common symptom ; occurring irregularly, sometimes copiously, and continuing for a long period, unrestrained by any ordinary treatment. The amount and frequency of the haemorrhage often diminishes when the polypus escapes from the grasp of the cervix; and usually it lessens in proportion as the peduncle becomes longer and thinner. Con- tinuous leucorrhoea in the intervals of hemorrhage, if attended with expulsive pain, is presumptive evidence of polypus. Pain usually remits when the polypus is extruded from the uterine cavity into the vagina. Diagnosis.—Severity of pain is tolerably characteristic of malignant polypoid growth, and haemorrhage is usually more abundant. The period of life most liable to the benign forms of polypi is that of men-