SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 648 developed, and recovery sometimes occurs without any assistance from treatment and often where there seems no hope of recovery. Acute conditions of intestinal obstruction comprise :— (1.) Congenitail Strictures or Malformations. (2.) Foreign bodies impacted in the intestines, and introduced through the stomach, formed in the bowel, or escaping by ulceration from the gall-bladder. (3.) Twisting or "dislocation " of the bowel, most frequently found in the large, but often in the small intestine. (4.) Loops, formed by bands of false membrane, adherent at both extremities; by diverticula, adherent by their apices to some portion of the viscera or abdominal wall; or by the fimbriated processes, or other portions of viscera, contracting adhesions, so as to form rings or apertures, entangling the intestine; all these usually the result of peritoneal inflammation. (5.) Mesenteric pouches; foramen of Winslow; or "thickened peritoneal sheaths," the result of old hernia. (6.) Invagination, often caused by worms, intestinal polypi, etc. Chronic conditions:— (1.) Constipation, habitual or accidental. (2.) Inflamed, thickened intestine, the result of injury. (3.) Chronic peritonitis,—tubercular and abscess. (4.) Tumours pressing on the bowel,— hydatids, etc. (6.) Simple stricture of intestine, the result of ulceration and other causes. (6.) Cancer of the bowel, producing contraction of the gut. The relative frequency of difEerent causes of obstruction, irrespective of age, is shown in the following tabulated arrangement of 136 cases, collected by Mr. Hinton :— Diseased uterus . . Stricture of ileum . . Cancer of small intestine Internal hernias : Inguinal high up . Diaphragmatic . Meso-colic . . . Obturator . . . Faecal accumulations Twist of sigmoid, flexure Concretions, calcuH, and foreign bodies 1 1 2 26 Doubtful 8 Peritoneal adhesions, tubercles, etc 9 Stricture of sigmoid flexure . 10 Ditto colon 11 Ditto rectum 11 Intussusception 24 By bands, adherent diverticula, uterine appendages, etc. . 36 In first column . . .26 Total 135 The order of frequency, as to different causes of obstruction at various ages, showing the liability of different periods of life, may be thus stated; in regard to youth, middle life, and old age. In youth; from internal strangulation by bands of lymph, omentum, or adherent diver- ticula (Fig. 827), from adhesion of coils of bowel to each other, from intussusception, from foreign bodies taken by the mouth, from cancer rarely, and hitherto found in the rectum only ;—in middle life; from twists of large or small intestine, from gall-stones, intestinal concx-etious, and foreign bodies, from intussusception, from simple stricture, from