SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 210 Fl6. 618* Adhesions of the Iris.—Synechia posterior, adhesion of the uvea to the capsule of the lens; synechia anterior, adhesion of the iris to the cornea; and atresia iridis, closure of the pupil; are three conditions resulting from prolonged iritis. The treatment consists in the application of belladonna or atropine, as a safeguard against any further adhesion, thus to preserve even a partial pupil; and the administration of mercury or of iodide of potassium, in small doses, for some time, after recent adhesions. Established adhesions are curable only by operation. If there be only one, it may sometimes be broken down by making a small opening into the anterior chamber vyith a broad bent needle or Taylor's knife, through the opposite side of the comea, and then introducing a S treat- field's hook, as shown in Fig. 618. In this way a single adhesion may be detached with gentle pressure, as in the right- hand upper drawing of figure. If the adhesions are only two in number, and opposite to each other, as in the lower left-hand diagram, the second one may also be broken down by turning the hook. If, however, they are more numerous, one or two only should be attacked at a time, as shown in the left hand upper drawing (a and &), some time being allowed to elapse before attempting the removal of the other ones. Another method is to make a cut in the cornea on the same side as the adhesion, when a fine pair of forceps may be introduced ; the iris near the attached point is then to be seized, and the synechia forcibly broken down. Both operations require considerable manipulative dexterity, as if the capsule of the lens be pricked or torn, the patient will have cataract, and a further operation will be necessary to give the patient vision. Hence neither operation should be undertaken unless the synechia is productive of serious inconvenience to the patient. Staphyloma scleroticce is apt to follow complete posterior synechia and closure of the pupil with lymph. The aqueous humour secreted in the posterior chamber, being unable to pass through the pupil to the anterior chamber, continues to accumulate behind the iris; gradually bulging the iris, it also distends the anterior portion of the sclerotic; and this yielding forms a bluish-black prominence, streaked with the widely separated whitish sclerotic fibres. (2.) Cysts of the Iris are either congenital, or the result of injury by allowing the aqueous humour to find its way between the uvea and fibrous tissue of the iris. A cyst, there situated, might be mistaken for a cysticercus or a dislocated lens; but it is principally distinguished by having a fixed attachment. An increasing cyst destroys the whole eyeball. * TlioBG flrawiiifcs show the modo of procedure required to break down posterior synochiai with ytryatleild's hooij.