705 LTTHOTRITY. making it fall into the blades of the lithotrite, or by searching for it in a certain manner. Sir B. Brodie recommends that the instrument should be raised the blades opened, and that the convex extremity of the under or female blade should be rested against the lower fundus of the bladder and gently_ pi-essed down, so as to make a conical depression in this' situation; into which, the stone falls by its own weight, or by a slight shake or jerk of the instrument with the hand. Similarly, Mr. Skey gives a smart blow with the open hand against the pelvis of the patient —a coup, he says, whicb will succeed again and again in making the stone fall into the grasp of the lithotrite. The male branch is pushed forwards to seize the stone. This manoeuvre may have to be repeated several times before the stone is securely caught; the female branch remaining stationary, while the male branch is slid a little up and down alternately, until the stone is seized. Civiale recommends another method, in principle, as Sir H. Thompson observes, the reverse of the preceding. By position of the patient, the centre of the bladder and space beneath it are selected as the area of operation ; no depression is made; contact between the walls of the bladder and the instrument is, as much as possible, avoided. The instrument is applied to the stone in the situation which it naturally takes, and the operator care- fully avoids moving it, or any movements of concussion whatever l-» <-\-TTT J-VTTJ-IM »-i 1 ruin X J however slight Fig. 890. .. ^^ f^'^^"'^^'"''^ of the stone is often ascertained in passing the litho- ttrite; then, the blades are inclined slightly away from the side on ^ Which the_ stone lies, carrying the instrument backwards also towards t the posterior wall of the bladder, while the male blade is slowly with- carawn not to impinge on the neck of the bladder. By turnino- the r opened lithotrite over towards the stone, and slowly closing the bfades the stone will almost certainly be seized. (Fig. 890; showing also r^Tllf^'' 8 lithotrite in action.) Most frequently the stone will be ^caught on the right side of the floor of the bladder. If no stone be /allr.?>, ? explored; first, without virf n ? ?^ instrument from its central or sifl ! J?!, H '''"P^y inclining the open blades to the ria-ht 2 z