779 SPASMODIC STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. BesiiUs of Perineal Section,—The latter operation of external in- cision—without a urethral guide—is of course hazardous and uncertain in its results. Bat perineal section, as performed on a grooved staif, has yielded excellent results,—in a suitable condition of stricture, and when the operation has been properly performed. Among 219 cases collected with scrupulous care by Sir H. Thompson, there was a mortality of between six and seven per cent. Of this percentage, nearly two-thirds died of pyasmia; the remainder, one or two only excepted, from fever and suppression of urine. Such a mortality is not large, considering the extreme cases of stricture and broken consti- tution subjected to the operation. Neither haemorrhage nor urinary infiltration ranks as a cause of death from perineal section. But the stricture almost always returns, unless catheterism or the passage of bougies be practised, occasionally, for some time after recovery from operation. The pathological conditions of stricture submitted to operation will of course materially affect the proportionate result of apparently successful cases. Perineal section is appropriate for the condition originally proposed—an almost impermeable stricture, and which is otherwise incurable by dilatation,—and this is always implied, when properly speaking of the operation and its results; but I have seen pez'ineal section performed when, at the time of operation, a full-sized catheter had just before been passed, easily, into the bladder,—and the operation having been performed simply for extravasation of urine. Spasmodic Strictuee.—This kind of stricture is due to the spas- modic action of the muscles surrounding the urethra, and is of a tem- porary character. It rarely occurs alone, but usually as a supervention on organic stricture, or in connection with an inflamed state of the urethral canal. Spasmodic stricture may occur at any portion of the urethra, by contraction of the layer of involuntary muscular fibres which encircle it throughout its course ; or the membranous portion of the urethra may be constricted by spasm of the compressor urethras muscle, acting as a sphincter on this portion of the passage, and this is the usual seat of a spasmodic stricture of the urethra. The symptoms are those of obstruction to the passage of the stream ' of urine, but of temporary duration, although perhaps oft-recurring. ' They thus differ from the same symptoms in organic or permanent i stricture. Local and urethral conditions, or remote and constitutional con- I ditions, may severally give rise to spasmodic stricture. The first class (comprises, principally—the presence of organic stricture; of inflara- imation from suppressed gonorrhoeal discharge; irritation of the I urethral mucous membrane from various states of the urine, especially i a highly acid state,—in various constitutional conditions, as fout; iforeign matters ingested and expelled by the urine, as cantharides,' 1 turpentine, condiments, alcoholic drinks; and the voluntary retention (of urme for too long a time. The second class of causes includes, cchiefly ^ rectal irritation; as from hgemorrhoids, fissure, prolapsus' tfistulae, operations on the rectum, ascarides, and anal prurigo ; derange- iments of the digestive organs, and of the cerebro-spinal system. The tsocial circumstances under which the practitioner will commonly meet ^with spasmodic stricture are characteristic. As affecting the more aaftiuent classes of society, the indulgence overnight of acid wiiics,