88 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. by Masscy, 1837; by McClcllau, 1838; and both these bones—or rather the outer half of the clavicle—together with the upper extremity, have been removed by Gilbert, in two cases; and by Massey, 1845. Partial excision of the scapula has been practised by Listen, 1819; Luke, 1828 ; and by Hayman, Janson, Wiitzer, Textor, Gross, and the author. Iii these operations, the glenoid cavity was always left—the only portion in Gross's case. The conditions of disease for which excision of the scapula may ])e required, in whole or in part, are caries or neci'osis, and tumour. The results of operation have been successful in the majority of cases, unless from the recurrence of the disease, and the arm has become very useful. Even the formidable operations of excision in- cluding the clavicle, and with amputation of the upper extremity, have proved successful. Operation.—Partial excision of the scapula, for caries or a tumour, will require an incision, varying in shape and extent, according to the portion of bone, or the size and relative position of the tumour, to bo removed. The body of the scapula may be excised by a T-shaped incision, so placed as to correspond to the spine and middle of the body of the bone. The flaps having been well reflected, and the bone or tumour thoroughly exposed, the saw is applied below the spine and the neck of the bone, which is then dissected out of its bed. Haemor- rhage may be inconsiderable, unless the subscapular or the dorsal artery be divided. The S2nne of the scapula can be readily exposed by an incision along its projecting border from the acromion, or to include this process if necessary. The bone is removed by a small saw or cutting-pliers, care being taken to avoid the joint, if the acromion be removed. Hasmorrhage will probably be inconsiderable, no vessel of any consequence having been severed. I have thus removed this portion of the scapula with little diflficulty. The s^ipra-sjnnoics portion of the bone might be reached by a similar procedure. Complete excision of the scapula may be accomplished by a similar operation to that for the removal of the body of the bone ; a T-shaped incision, but extending from the acromial end of the clavicle to the posterior border, and vertically downwards to the inferior angle, of the scapula. The flaps, thus marked out, are to be well reflected; then, the acromio-clavicular articulation must be divided, or the adjoining portion of the clavicle or the base of the acromion may be sawn through, the muscles attached to the coracoid process must be divided, and the shoulder-joint opened, carefully avoiding the axiUary artery and plexus of nerves on its inner aspect; lastly, the muscles attached to the superior and posterior borders of the bone are divided, with the supra-scapular and dorsal arteries, and the bone is raised from behind forwards to the axilla, there dividing the subscapular artery in com- pleting the severation of the axillary attachments. Or, the bone may be raised from the axilla backwards, dividing the subscapular artery in the first instance ; a less convenient method of procedure, owing to the copious ha;morrhage. The vessels must be secured by ligature or torsion ; and the amount of hismorrhage will be perilous, in proportion to the vascular chai'acter of the tumour. The flaps of integument are replaced and retained by points of suture. The appearances before, and aftex', this operation, are here shown in a case by Mr. W. MacCorraac. (Figs. 524, 525.) In this case the