598 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEiry. by the action of the bowels or by pressure. But it is not so distinctly paroxysmal, commg suddenly and after a while disappearing; it is singularly persistent, although varying in intensity at different times • and may continue for years. The pain does not seem referable to any particular spot, extending perhaps up one side of the bowel, as a dull aching pain. Neuralgia of the rectum occurs chiefly in females. No treatm,6nt can be designated curative. Sedative applications have some influence in allaying the pain ; opiate suppositories in par- ticular, or the belladonna ointment introduced by a bougie. Consti- tutional treatment should not be neglected ; colchicum and bicarbonate of potash may prove beneficial in a gouty diathesis; or quinine and iron in persons debilitated and worn down by suffering. Pruritus Ani.—Itching at the anus, unconnected with any diseased state of the part, is symptomatic of various causative conditions. Rectal constipation, ascarides, congestion of the mucous membrane, not distinctly heemorrhoidal, and other disorders of the bowel, are common causes; or over eating and drinking, and especially the indulgence of some particular taste, as for salmon or chamjmgne. The complaint may be sympathetic ; as of chronic enlargement of the pros- tate, or of some uterine or ovarian irritation. Constitutional causes are also not uncommon; as suppressed gout, or an excitable state of the nervous system, induced perhaps by overwork and anxiety, or exces- sive smoking. Anal itching and irritation are usually more intolerable at night, depriving the patient of sleep; it is frequently provoked during the day by sitting long upright. Scratching or rubbing the part only aggravates the suffering, and results in excoriation, or the production of a peculiar dry, harsh, and leathery state of the skin, easily disposed to crack. Treatment of this affection consists in removing any exciting cause, and using sedative applications. Hence, it will be imperative to regu- late the bowels, and avoid any stimulating condiment,'food or drink; or the removal of ascarides may be indicated as the source of irrita- tion ; and in any case, absolute cleanliness must be enjoined. As a sympathetic affection, the treatment of anal itching will be that of the organic disease, which is the distant source of irritation. And any constitutional cause, as a gouty condition, must be met by appropriate remedies. But a tonic plan of treatment will be requisite when the complaint seems to be more purely neurotic; iron and quinine, arsenic, or strychnine, may then be given with marked advantage; and the bromide of potassium with hydrate of chloral is extolled by Mr. Ailing- ham, as a hypnotic, to be taken at bed-time. Of topical applications, the liquor opii sedativus, chloroform ointment or vapour, will often afford relief. The latter may be applied by pouring a little chloroform into a wine-glass, which is held to the anus. Mr. Curling highly recommends a lotion composed of a drachm of the sulphuret of potassium and eight ounces of lime-water; the infusion of tobacco, with five grains of borax to the ounce, is also very efficacious. In chronic cases, astringent lotions are often beneficial; as lotions of alum, tannin, or the mnriated tincture of iron. Counter-irritation I have found to be singularly remedial, when the anal itching depends on ovarian irritation ; a blister applied bver the iliac region, on the tender side, has not unfrequently acted as a charm, all other treatment havihg been quite ineffectual.