^74 • SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. general circulation. The confection of black pepper, Ward's paste has long been m great repute as a remedy for piles; a drachm dose being taken three times a day. It is supposed to act directly on the piles as a stimulant application, and might therefore be more advan- tageously introduced at once into the rectum. This was done by a patient of Sir Everard Home, as related by Sir B. Brodie, and it had the eflect of curing him. Cubebs is also taken internally with the same view. I concur with Mr. Curling in not much recommending^ these remedies; and my experience is that such stimulants are more beneficial in promoting the healing of a sluggish wound after the oper- ation for fistula or fissure in ano. Smoking is said to have an un- favourable influence on piles, a hint to those who indulge too freely in the "weed." Local applications are important adjuncts to the constitutional treatment, and as a means of allaying pain. External piles may be sponged with cold water, or with some sedative and astringent wash, as weak lead lotion, or a weak solution of alum, sulphate of zinc' sulphate of iron, or of the muriated tincture. The unguentum gallse is also beneficial. Internal piles are amenable to similar applications used internally as injections or lavements. Cold water alone, thrown into the rectum every morning, often proves very efficacious in con- stringing the dilated vessels and softening the motion which follows its use. Medicated astringent injections, as of iron or alum with decoction of oak bark, had better be employed only at bed-time, that during the night any such application may have time to act on the piles. But they should be weak solutions, as a grain of sulphate of iron to an ounce of water; and used in small quantity, only two or three ounces at a time. Citrine ointment is said to be very beneficial when the hremorrhoids are in an unhealthy state, accompanied with a slimy discharge; a little of the ointment being inserted within the sphincter every night, by means of the finger, which the patient can himself accomplish. An ointment of nitrate of silver is also very useful, although liable to stain the linen. When piles become inflamed, the patient must keep the recumbent position, and cold or warm applications will be appropriate. Pounded ice is highly recommended by Mr. Curling, who finds that it generally gives complete relief in a few hours. Warm fomentations or poulticing may be preferable, and if several piles be affected, a few leeches should be applied around the tumours. An external pile may be opened with a lancet, and the coagulum squeezed out; an abscess should be punc- tured and poulticed. Internal piles having protruded, they must be returned by gentle uniform pressure, to empty them of blood, and then to push them back within the sphincter. If tightly strangulated, they may be punctured in several places with a needle, and cold or iced water applied, with an elevated position of the pelvis; and then by a little manipulation they will probably slip up. Prolonged stran- gulation and a tendency to sloughing forbid any attempt at reduction ; warm fomentations should be used. Operative Procedures.—When piles are beyond the control of medical treatment, general and topical, or haemorrhage from them is detrimental to health, operative interference becomes necessary. No such interference should be resorted to if the piles be in a state of active inflammation, excepting perhaps when they are quite external.