fixion in front of the bones. of the bones, and made to SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 110 with the knife; and the wards ; commencing on the palmar margin of the radius—on the left side—and continued a little way down along the bone, arching acrosa the back of the forearm, and up along the ulna to a point on its palmar aspect opposite to the other horn of the incision, it thus ex- tends forward sufficiently Fia. 550. on either side for easy trans- (I'ig. 550.) This flap is re- flected by a stroke or two point being entered at one horn of the incision, in front emerge at the other, an anterior flap of correspond- ing shape and length is formed, by carrying the knife from within outwards along the surface of the bones. Both flaps are retracted by an assistant. Sweeping the knife around the bones to divide any remaining muscular fibres, and cutting across the interosseous membrane with the point of the instru- ment, the bones are then sawn together. The radial, ulnar, and inter- osseous arteries in the anterior flap must be Ugatured or twisted, and the flaps adjusted with sutures. This method of performing amputation of the forearm provides •for easy transfixion, and is the most dexterous; but in a similar posi- tion of the forearm—semi-pronation, both flaps may be made by transfixion. Amputation by a long anterior, and a short posterior, rectangular flap, on Teale's principle, will also form a good stump. An artificial forearm may be fitted thus. Fig. 551. (I'ig- 651.) It is a modification, by Mr. Bigg, of Beaufort's arm. The hand may be adapted for a variety of important move- ments—as in writing or driving. Amputation at the Elhoio-joint may be performed by transfixion in front of the joint, just below the condyles, and forming a sufficiently long anterior rounded flap ; then, dividing the lateral ligaments with a touch of the knife on either side, the joint is opened, and the blade being carried round the olecranon, dividing the attach- ment of the triceps tendon, a short semi- circular skin-flap is formed posteriorly. The condyloid surface of the humerus should then be sawn ofE. But this amputation is seldom eligible, or necessary. When removal of the limb is requisite for injury, there is seldom sufficient sound integument for the an- terior flap; and in the case of injury or disease of the elbow-joint, excision may generally be performed. Amputation of the Arm.—An assistant compressing the brachial 1