SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 306 lately tmattainable by his seniors in the profession; and there is a temptation to descant on these things by way of urging on our pro- fessional brethren an acquaintance with, and consequent appreciation of, modern dental science, their present lack of which is a constant thorn in the side of the specialist. Diseases incident to the Development and Eruption of Teeth. The considerable constitutional disturbance, the symptoms of derangement of the nervous system, and the bodily suffering so often produced by the cutting of the first teeth, hardly fall within the scope of the present chapter. They must not, however, be forgotten by any one who is desirous of understanding the sometimes remote symptoms which may be produced by diseases of the teeth in adults. When it is necessary to lance the gum in young children, the cut should be a free one, and of a form calculated to give an easy passage to the coming crown. Thus, a longitudinal iacision will be sufficient over tbe crown of an incisor or a canine, whilst a crucial incision is required over a molar. Lancing of the gum is of clear and unques- tionable benefit wben the gum is thick, tense, and red; it is of more doubtful service wben there is no distinct local irritation; but it should, neverthelei5s, be practised whenever obscure nervous symptoms or convulsions occur at about the period when teeth are due, as there are numerous cases on record of almost instant cure effected by this simple measure. About the age of seven years the temporary teeth begin to be shed. Prior to this, however, the first permanent molars have come up behind the last of the temporary teeth, and take an important part in mastication during the period of change. When the process is perfectly normal, it may be first noticed that the temporary teeth, originally in close contact, come to be separated from one another by small intervals; then, in a certain definite order, their roots become absorbed, they fall out, and their place is taken by permanent teeth which rise up beneath them. Of these permanent teeth, the incisors and canines are larger than their predecessors, the premolars (bicuspids) are smaller, but by the help of a slight obliquity of position they are all able to be accommo- dated in the space occupied by the twenty deciduous teeth. ^ But it by no means always happens that the due proportion between the size of the teeth and the size of the jaw is maintained; on the contrary, it is exceedingly common for the teeth to be too large to be accommodated in an even regular arch, and it then becomes necessary to remove some member of the permanent series. A great many con- siderations come into play in deciding whicb tooth shall be sacrificed. But although it is not possible here to go into any detail upon this subject, one broad fact regarding the development of the jaws must be constantly kept in mind. It is that that portion of the jaw which contains the temporary teeth, practically speaking, undergoes no increase in dimensions from the period of the full complement of temporary teeth being erupted to that of the permanent teeth being placed, all growth taking place by additions to the posterior comna of the arch. When, therefore, the teeth come down in such manner as to be crowded, there is no hope of the evil being remedied by