TUMOURS OF THE HEAD. 181 naturally weak or prematurely broken; this constitutional state tending to induce ulceration, and to maintain the obstiuate indisposition of the nicer to heal. .„ , , The treatment of a scalp-wen will depend upon circumstances. When small and quiescent, it may be left alone, unless it be desirable to remove it for the sake of appearance. But even then the liability to erysipelas supervening on any wound of the scalp, and in an unhealthy part, will restrain the Surgeon from unnecessary interference; especially in a patient whose' constitutional condition is unfavourable, when any operative procedure should be at least postponed until that is improved by medicinal and dietetic measures. On the other hand, in such persons there is always the greater tendency to ulceration, and a tedious cure. When the tumour is, of larger size and troublesome, it should be removed. This may be readily done, by laying open the cyst through its whole diameter with a scalpel, pressing out the sebaceous contents, and then seizing the wall with a stout forceps, enucleate the cyst from its cellular bed. A thin-walled cyst cannot be thus shelled out; but the membranous capsule may be detached with the handle of the scalpel, and torn out with the forceps. No portion of the scalp should ever be removed ; when apparently redundant, it will contract; and even when unsound, it will recover itself. The lips of the incision may be brought together by narrow strips of common adhesive plaster, or closed by two or three points of suture. A lint-compress will promote the union of the surfaces of the cavity; and the whole dressing may be retained by a head-bandage. If, as sometimes happens, the lips of the wound refuse to unite—especially when the integument is unsound—-the cavity reopens, and must be dressed from the bottom with lint soaked in carbolic solution. After entire removal of the cyst, the tumour never returns. Another method of treatment consists in puncturing the cyst, or introducing a probe through the black-pointed obstructed duct of the folHcle, in order to squeeze out the sebaceous matter; then, the opening being made of sufficient size, the interior of the cyst is freely cauterized •with nitrate of silver, or a small seton passed in, thus to induce inflammatory adhesion of the cavity. But more often a prolonged suppurative discharge and open sore results; the cyst-cavity having become an indolent and unhealthy ulcer. Congenital sebaceous cysts are sometimes met with in the scalp, resembling ordinary wens in this situation, but distinguished by the tumour often lying in contact with the dura mater; the cranium being perforated, either in consequence of continued pressure or from con- genitally incomplete development. In infancy or childhood, the chief question of diagnosis is to distinguish between a wen of the scalp, and one which, through an opening in the skull, lies upon the dura mater;' and which may also be an encefhalocele or hernial protrusion of the brain. This dis- tinction will be drawn, principally, by observing whether any such tumour enlarges and subsides somewhat under the movements of respiration, and is rendered fuller by the expiratory acts of coughing or crying; and by the effect of compression in producing any dis- turbance of the cerebral functions. Sometimes, the margin of the cranial aperture can be felt with the tip of the finger; but it may be impossible to thus determine whether the opening is complete, or a