419 POSTERIOR CURVATURES OF THE SPINE. transverse lumbar processes. Both of these pads are moved by hori- zontal screws, so placed as to admit of the spine being pressed in an antero-lateral direction. The effect of this mechanism is shown in the adjoining sketch, which represents a patient undergoing treatment upon a Bnhring couch, (Fig. 754.) It will be seen that the pads not only act upon the body laterally, but also raise the thorax upwards,— thus overcoming rotation of the spine. As the weight of the body rests almost entirely upon the pads, an antero-lateral movement of the vertebrse takes place,—the spinal curves becoming reduced by a kind of unfolding process, peculiar to this contrivance. A loop of leather fastened to the pillow enables the patient to assist the expansion of the dorsal curve, by holding the left arm across and above the head. Much care should be observed in the construction of this couch, so that the pads may bear strict relation in their form and thickness to the condition of rotatory-lateral curvature presented by the patient's spine ; but as the pads can be easily removed by a simple arrangement in the plate attached to the screw, a very little practice soon deter- mines with accuracy the exact size and thickness of padding required ui the individual case. Dr. Bauer says that patients rapidly become accustomed to the frequent use of this couch, and derive the greatest comfort from its use, readily sleeping all night upon it. Treahnmt by Suspension and Plaster of Paris Bandage.—Dr. Sayre,* of New York, in the year 1876, applied to the treatment of lateral curvature of the spine the same method of suspension, and the appli- cation of a plaster of Paris jacket, which he had previously used in the treatment of angular curvature, and has been already described when speaking of Pott's disease (see pp. 409, 410). It was found by Dr. Sayre that in cases of lateral curvature the spine straightened con- siderably during the process of suspension, and he therefore proposed to maintain the improvement thus gained by the application of the plaster of Paris jacket whilst the patient is suspended. Sufficient time has not yet elapsed to afford a test of the value of this method of treatment, but there can be no doubt of the efficiency of the plaster of Paris bandage as a retentive support. In all probability, it will be found useful in preventing the increase in cases of severe curvature, and in some cases improvement may be effected by the repeated ap- plication of the plaster of Paris jacket, and the continued use of suspension. In cases of slight lateral curvature, however, it would mterfere with the employment of gymnastics, which together with partial recumbency, and in some cases the addition of a steel spinal support, is found to be amply sufficient for curative purposes. (Note by "W. Adams.) PosTEEioE Curvatures of the Spine.—Gypliosis is a term intended to signify an ezcurvation of the spine in the dorsal region, exhibitino- a remarkably roimd-hacked appearance. (Pig. 755.) The left figure shows this deformity, and an apparatus which, from the direction of pressure on the spine—aiove the curvature—would increase it • while the adjoining figure indicates the proper situation for spinal support, about two vertebrae helow the axis of distortion. The most notable instance I have ever seen was in the person of a Surgeon, about fifty years of age, and whose general health remained unaffected. Lordosis denotes incurvation in the lumbar region, and is of more * Op. cit.