SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 716 dividing the urethra. This method is described by Ambrose Par^, who saw the elder Collot perform the operation, but it was probably originated by Dubois. A grooved staff was introduced into the urethra, and on it a small incision was made vertically upward. Sir B. Brodie revived this operation, and divided the urethra directly upwards under the symphysis pubis. Dilatation was then made with Weiss's instruments, to a sufficient extent for the introduction of the forceps and extraction of the stone, downwards and outwards. The objection to the upward incision is that it necessitates extraction of the stone where the space is most restricted. The direction of the incision has been varied by Surgeons: some cutting directly downwards—as recommended by Chelius; some ob- liquely downwards—as Le Dran proposed; and others sideways. Douhle incision of the urethra, combined with.dilatation, was pro- posed by Dionis ; the urethral orifice being divided horizontally on both sides. In these operative procedures by urethral incision, the vagina is necessarily involved, when the incision is downwards, or even oblique. The probability of incontinence of urine resulting from urethral incision, rather than from dilatation alone, seems doubtful; Surgeons of great experience holding directly opposite opinions on this important issue. But after double incision in Dionis's cases, incon- tinence followed in three out of every four patients thus operated on. Lithotrity is preferable to either of the above methods—urethral dilatation, or with incision combined—when the stone is of large size. This operation is far more easily performed in the female than in the male; and it is frequently more successful in its results; both these advantages having reference to the peculiar anatomical conditions of the urethral passage, already mentioned. But a double depression may be found, as Civiale observes, in the posterior and inferior wall of the bladder,—an anterior and a posterior receptacle, formed by the pro- jection of the neck of the uterus; and in either cavity search must then be made for the calculus or fragments. In old women a depres- sion exists behind the internal opening of the urethra, wherein some difficulty may be experienced in using the lithotrite. After-treatment in the female is, however, less liable to be attended with any difficulty by the retention of fragments in the bladder, or from impaction in the urethra; detritus and fragments of some size are readily discharged through the large and easily dilated urethra, facilitated also by the shorter and straighter course of the passage. Lithotomy is also more readily performed than in the male, and it may be done in either of four ways. The patient is placed under chloroform, and tied up in the position as for the operation in males; and a grooved staff is introduced into the urethra, which is hooked up perpendicularly under the symphysis pubis. A common bistoury, lithotomy-forceps, and scoop are the only other instruments required. (1.) Urethral lithotomy is nothing more than incision of the urethra, carried up the passage, so as to divide also the nech of the bladder. Dilatation is then made sufficiently to allow of the completion of the operation by extraction. A straight staff having been introduced into the bladder, its groove is directed downwards and outwards towards the ramus of the ischium, and the urethra divided obliquely downwards with a probe-pointed bistoury. This incision often inter-