LITHOTRITY. 703 Fig. 889. describrag bis instruments for the drilling or boring, and then crushing the fragments, of stone in the bladder. Bat these isolated and imper- fect attempts failed to introduce Lithotritj into the practice of Surgery. Civiale, in 1817, then a poor student, first succeeded in drawing atten- tion to Lithotrity, by constructing certain boring instruments, which he brought before the notice of the French Minister; and continuing his labours in subsequent years, followed by Elderton in 1819 ("Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal"), Amussat in 1822, and Leroy d'Etiolles in 1823, this method of removing stone from the bladder acquired a recognized and established reputation in France. The first operation of lithotrity on the living sub- ject was performed by M. Civiale, Jan. 13, 1824. Subsequently, in this country, the first crushing instrument of any value, was invented by Mr. Weiss, in 1824. It consisted of two blades, sliding one within the other, and woi-ked by a screw at the handle. With a somewhat similar instrument, in 1825, Mr. Hodgson, at the Birmingham Hos- pital, first performed the operation of crushing stone in the bladder. Baron Heurteloup in 1830, and Costello afterwards, devised an instrument for liammering the stone to pieces ; but the crushing procedure prevailed, and was mainly brought into practice by Sir B. Brodie. The oval slit in the under or female blade, for the escape of detritus in using the lithotrite, was suggested by Mr. Oldham, a gentleman connected with the Bank of England. Since the period referred to, lithotrity has received the special attention of Coulson, Sir W. Fergusson, Skey, and Sir H. Thompson. The latter Surgeon may justly be entitled the cham- pion authority respecting this operation, he having presented the results of his extensive experience in "An Analysis of 184 Consecutive Cases of Stone in the Bladder of the Adult, treated by Lithotrity" (" Med.-Chir. Trans.," 1870); and during the present year (1878), this series has been extended to 500 cases of operation,—in- cluding the cases of Lithotomy. The Lithotrite, or instrument for crushing the stone, now in general use is Weiss's " newly in- vented lithotrite," or Sir Henry Thompson's admirable lithotrite. It enables the operator to exercise powerful, yet nicely regulated screw-pres- sure ; its cylindrical and finely fluted handle aids the sense of touch, and the whole is a light and delicate instrument. Another form of instrument ■was frequently used by Sir W. Fergusson—a rack- and-key lithotrite (Fig. 889), as made for him by Messrs. Matthews, but which is less generally employed. I prefer a screw instrument,' and especially Thompson's lithotrite, for the three reasons just stated'. Ihe mstrument is now made without a fenestrum or oval aperture in the under blade. A steel sound, for detecting fragments, is also very