SUBCUTANEOUS SECTION OF FEMUE BELOW TROCHANTERS. 51 out fatigue. He said that ho would willingly go through a similar illness again for an equally good result." (See " Trans. Clin. Soc, Lend.," vol. X., January 26th, 1877.) I am indebted to Mr. W. Adams for the particulars of the follow- ing case, in which he performed this operation, and with an entirely saccessful result:— " On the 24th October, 1877, Mr. Wm. Adams, at the Great ISTorthern Hospital, performed Mr. Grant's operation of subcutaneously dividing the shaft of the femur with a small saw, just below the small tro- chanter. " The case was that of a woman, ist. 32 years, who had been unable to stand for three years, in consequence of severe contraction of both hip-joints, as well as knee and ankle joints. The contraction took place a month after a miscarriage, followed by very severe hcemorrhage, and extreme prostration. No history of pygemia or rheumatism. Three months after the miscarriage, she was admitted into one of the Metro- politan Hospitals, in consequence of the contraction of the legs; and dislocation of the right hip-joint, with the head of the femur on the dorsum ilii, was observed. This was supposed to have occurred spontaneously during the extreme exhaustion, when the contraction occurred. "Forcible extension was twice employed, and she remained eight months in the hosjjital. The skin gave way in several places at the time of extension, in a very remarkable manner, and the wounds inter- fered with the subsequent treatment. " Mr. Adams preferred Mr. Gant's operation in consequence of the thickening and displacement of parts, which obscured the relations of the head and neck of the femur. The division of the bone was accomplished in one minute, and the limb was at once brought into a straight position, and a long interrupted straight splint applied. " The wound united by the first intention, not a drop of pus being seen, and altogether the union of the bone proceeded as in a case of simple fracture. "January 3rd, 1878.—The union is now firm and the limb straight." Since the introduction of this operation, which, having regard to the conditions appropriate for the procedure, essentially consists in the situation of subcutaneous section—just below the trochanters—Mr. Maunder has practised the same " subcutaneous ostestomy " by means of Volckmann's chisel, instead of the small saw I originally used ; the operation as thus performed by Mr. Maunder differing only in the kind of instrument which he prefers. His first operation was in 1875 July 7th. Mr. Maunder has supplied me with the following particulars relative to all the cases wherein he has performed subcutaneous osteotomy of the femur; although it does not appear that in all the section was made just below the trochanter, as the alternative pro- cedure to division of the neck of the femur by Adams's operation. He writes, I have divided the femur twelve times. In the four first cases with three chisels, as recommended by Volckmann; and of these two suppurated slightly, but from remedial causes, one of the chisels being improperly tempered. For section of the remaining eight (ex- cluding other bones) I have used one chisel, selected by myself from the workshop of an amateur carpenter, of peculiar shape and temper. Thus