412 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Lateral Cukvatork of thk Svm^.-Struciural Gonditions.-SpM Cuinjature may take place laterally, to one side or the other, and^vith another or compensating curve to the opposite side ; thus prLsentinr. a very different appearance from angular curvature forward, with a sl.arn projection backwards. Lateral curvature usually forms in the middle of the back-mid-dorsal region of the spine-and with its convexit? towards the right side ; the second curve is in the lumbar region and Its convexity towards the left. This curve arises nearly simultane;usly with the farst curve, constituting double lateral curvature. (Fig 744 ) bometimes four curves occur; namely, besides a dorsal and a lumbar a cervical and a lower lumbar curve are produced, also in opposite directions. There will then be two curves to one side, and two to the other, arranged alternately ; the whole spine having a quadruple un- dulatory form. The effect of this double and opposite curvation whether m one or two pairs, is to bring the weight of the trunk oyer Fig. 744. Fig. 745.* the sacrum, as the base of support, and thus maintain the balance of the body. Another and a I'emarkable change takes place, concurrently with lateral curvature of the spine. In each such curve, the aberrant vertebras twist or undergo rotation, to some extent; so that the anterior faces of their bodies look towards the convexity of the curve, the spinous processes towards the concavity. (Fig. 745.) A double kind of curvature, lateral and rotatory, is the resulting structural * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 60. Lateral curvature of the spine, iu the upper dorsal region, the convexity towards the right side ; and, in the lower dorsal rcrion, a compensatory curve, in which the anterior parts of the bodies of the vertebras have undergone rotation forwards towards the left. The sacrum is somewhat higher and posterior on the left side, as compared with the right. A slight incurvation of the anterior spinous processes of the ilium has also taken place,—not recognized in the figure.