SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 875.* 074 Valentin, Riolanus, Morgagni, Covillard, Tolet, Morand, Deschamps and Lhopart, and by Gross as having occurred in the practice of Sir Brodie. Several calculi cannot always be detected ; Collot extracted from the bladder twenty-two previously undiscovered calculi, which were hard and the size of a hazel-nut. Failure has occurred also after repeated exploration, as in the hands of Abernethy, who thus failed to discover a large, rough, oval calculus. In some such cases, the stone has remained undiscovered for years, until after death. In other cases, and not unfrequently, a stone may be distinctly felt at one time, and not at another ; a remarkable instance of which fell to my own lot. I had distinctly touched a small stone, lodged apparently in the cal-de-sac behind the prostate, and it was also felt by other Surgeons; yet, a few days afterwards, when about to operate, I could not detect the stone as the patient lay on the table, nor could it be discovered by Mr. Coulson, sen., or by Mr. Gutteridge; the latter skilled lithotomist having explored the bladder in various states of distension and the patient standing up. In about a month afterwards, the patient came to me with the stone in his hand ; he told me that he had been seized with an intolerable desire to pass water, and as if the passage would burst, when the stone suddenly shot out and rolled across the room. Lastly, a calculus may be found ajyparently, by sounding; and then the un- happy mistake has been made of cutting for stone and finding none. This misadventure has, however, happened to the most experienced Surgeons; to Cbeselden, who on three occasions cut and found no stone; Crosse also, Roux, and Dupuytren, each of whom have thus performed aboi^tive operations. Velpeau was acquainted with four such instances ; S. Cooper knew of seven; and Mr. Coulson can refer to at least seven cases, at two of which he was present, where patients have been subjected to lithotomy, with the absence of any stone in the bladder. (See Gutteridge on " Cutting for Stone and finding none, explained.") Encysted calculus is so named when the stone is lodged in a cyst or pouch of the mucous membrane, between the muscular fasciculi of the bladder. (Fig. 875.) The symptoms of stone—as caused by a loose, hard body rolling about in the bladder—are necessarily absent. There may be some pain and weight, with increased frequency of micturition, arising from the irritation of a foreign body; but there can- not be any aggravation of these symptoms after each act of micturition, and much increased by any jolting exercise—the stone being stationary; nor any sudden stoppage of the stream of urine, and constant liability to the admixture of blood. Then, again, sounding gives less positive evidence as to the presence of a stone. The encysted condition may be suspected, if the stone be struck just once in a way—when its exposed surface is hit by chance, and if it be always found at the same part * Eoy. Coll. Surg. Mup., 2010. Sacculated bladder; two extrusions of the iiiucou.s membrane contain each a calculus, exactly filling the sac. and partly covered by the membrane, without projecting into the bladder, (John Heaviside.)