315 DENTAL CARIES. The most favourable period at which the operation can he performed is at the commencement of the disease, when the cavity is not of such size as to materially diminish the strength of the sides of the tooth, and before the pulp-cavity has been approached. In general terms it may be said that when decay has so far advanced that the tooth has begun to ache, the really favourable period for filling it has gone by, and this cannot be too strongly impressed upon all concerned. The preparation for filling, under favourable circumstances, consists in the complete removal of all softened tissue and of all very frail edges. If the cavity so formed be not of such shape as to retain a filling when inserted, undercuts must be made at some points, or the cavity be made at least as large inside as at its orifice. If much undercut exists, the orifice should be enlarged, else it wiU be less easy to fill it solidly. Many materials are used for fiUing teeth, of which the following are the principal:— • . t£ Goldr—in the form of leaf, or of a crystalline precipitate, it inserted with adequate skill, to which but few practitioners fully attain, it is the best material that can be used. The insertion of a difficult gold-filling may take one, two, three, or even more hours of pains- taking and laborious work. Amalgams, which are combinations of various metals with mercury, inserted in a plastic condition, and allowed to harden in situ. _ Of these, the metal palladium forms the best, but it is difficult to use, and turns black in the mouth. Copper forms an amalgam in some respects good; it turns black and stains the surrounding tooth-substance black, but the stained tissue is in great measure protected against further decay. In general usefulness, amalgams consisting of silver and tin, with a small percentage of gold and platinum, carry the palm. These have been much improved of late years. Gutta-percha, with which is incorporated powdered glass to give it greater hardness, is an excellent temporary filling, its durability being principally determined by the amount of attrition to which it is ex- posed. In a sheltered position it will last for many years. Oxychloride of zinc, also containing more or less powdered glass or other such material, is another useful temporary filling. It is more or less rapidly softened by the fluids of the mouth, and where it touches the gum its speedy destruction is certain, but if it be tolerably remote from the gum it will often last a long time. It affords more support to the frail walls of a greatly damaged tooth than any of the other fillings. If the size of the cavity be such that the pulp is at all nearly ap- proached, a metalHc filling should not be inserted. If a non-conducting filling be inserted, and so time gained, the pulp will protect itself by fresh calcification upon the point threatened with exposure, and after this has happened a metallic filling may be inserted without fear of alternations of temperature so irritating the pulp as to set up disease in it. When decay has approached the pulp somewhat nearly, this ceases to be healthy, and before the tooth can be filled the diseased condition of the pulp must be considered and remedied. It may happen that, in the course of excavating a cavity, the pulp may be accidentally exposed by the cutting instrument employed* This mishap modifies the further procedure in tilling the tooth. If the