GONORRHOEA. 753 which may thus be divided into four tolerably definite stages. Com- mencing generally from the second to the fifth day after contagion, a short period of urethral irritation is followed by acute inflammation, which subsides into a declining or chronic stage; terminating perhaps in gleet, a chronic state of peculiar discharge which does not always supervene. Urethral irritation is attended with very slight symptoms: an itching or tickling sensation in the meatus, its lips have a florid red and puffed appearance, and are glued together by a scanty, viscid, clear and colourless, or slightly opalescent secretion. In passing water, some smarting is experienced, but no scalding—no ardor urinae. This stage lasts from a few hours to two or three days. Acute inflammation gives rise to the discharge of a purulent secre- tion, having a thick, creamy consistence, and opaque and greenish- yellow colour; it can be pressed out of the urethra in sulphur-looking drops, and is usually so abundant as to stiffen the shirt in patches; an acute scalding pain is felt in passing urine, which is voided with some difficulty in a diminished or foi'ked stream, or in spasmodic jerks, and with increased frequency; although the patient refrains from mictu- rition as long as he can contain, regarding this procedure as quite a little operation. The whole glans penis is turgid and of a bright cherry-red colour; the urethral canal is swollen and cord-like to the touch ; the prepuce may become oederaatous, and at length the whole penis looks and feels turgescent. Should the inflammation pass back to the bulbous urethra, a sensation of weight in the perineum will be experienced, and, reaching the prostatic urethra, a bearing-down weight about the anus is superadded. The heavy and enlarged penis seldom remains pendent and quiescent for many hours by day or night; under any rubbing irritation of the dress, or warmth in bed, erections often occur with troublesome inconvenience; or chordee not unfre- quently arises, irt the form of a painful arching or twisting of the penis downwards during erection, a penalty inflicted in oft-repeated attacks. This bent position of the organ in erection seems to be the result of lymph-effusion around the urethral canal, producing an mextensible state of the corpus spongiosum at the part affected. Whenever, therefore, an erection would take place, as the cavernous body of the penis becomes distended, the unyielding spongy urethra acts like the string of a bow, and bends the penis downwards" Another explanation is, that chordee arises from spasm of the muscular fibres around the urethra. The characberistic discharge and scalding micturition constitute what is vulgarly called the "clap " in England, and " chaudpisse " in France. Some feverishness may accompany this acute inflammatory ' stage of gonorrhoea ; but often there is little constitutional disturbance. The average duration of this stage is from one to three weeks ; its con- tinnance varying according to the number of previous attacks and the ■ habits of the patient. The chronic stage is denoted by the altered character of the urethral ' discharge; the pus subsides into muco-purulent matter, which is • thinner and less copious ; and the scalding reverts to smarting or only i a soreness m micturition. In about another three weeks, the gonor- I rhcea may pass off,—under treatment; but it rarely terminates 1 spontaneously in less than three months. During a severe and pro- VOL. II. o „ ^ O C