ELEPHANTIASIS. 805 convenient to consider " Elephantiasis " as a generic term, before describing the latter or Arabian disease, as affecting the scrotum. Elephantiasis GRiECORUM.—Leprosy is described by Dr. Vandyke Carter, as making its first appearance in the form of a circular spot, having a raised margin, not scaly, and a depressed atrophied centre, which is insensible; this spot is also remarkably indolent, but of a spi-eading character. This " leper-spot" is said to have the same relation to the development of leprosy that chancre—as the local or primary lesion—has to secondary or constitutional syphilis. But it would seem that the nerves of the leper-spot are primarily and essentially affected; and that the disease thence spreads along the course of the nerves, which become infiltrated with a peculiar deposit, so that they may acquire twice their natural size. Our friend Dr. Druitt, who, during his late residence in Madras, particularly studied Elephantiasis, thus observes of this deposit:—" It seems to invade the nerves as soon as they pierce the fascia, and they can often be felt under the skin, as rounded cords, perhaps nodulated; deeper trunks are affected later. The consequences of this nerve-disease are the same as when nerves are irritated by injury, i.e., loss of sensation in the skin—lepra ancesthetica; atrophy of the skin, which loses its hair; bullaB of pemphigus, which often lead to deep ulcers ; atrophy of the muscles, and of the bones, beginning with those of the last joints of the fingers or toes. The bones first become thin and slender, then absolutely vanish by absorption, so that the finger-nails may be found on the ends of the metacarpal bones, the parts between them having disappeared. This process of mutilation is often hastened by abscess and necrosis of the bones." The same author describes "the most hideous form of leprosy as the so-called tubercular—lepra tuberculosa— in which there is an eruption of rounded, flattened patches on the eyebrows, ears, and surface generally, giving in bad cases an extra- ordinary animal aspect to the face ; the forehead swollen, the hairless eyebrows protruding, the ears projecting forward and of enormous size, the upper lip pouting and swinish, the nose first flattening and then falling in." These three forms of leprosy—skin, nerve, and tubercular leprosy—are often combined in the same person. Then, indeed, being afflicted with a spotted skin-eruption, or with crops of tubercules, disfiguring the features to a degraded expression, while the arms and legs are paralyzed and distorted, the confirmed leper was ever shunned, save by Him whose compassion embraced all mankind. The causes of leprosy are but little understood. As a constitu- tional disease it may be ranked with scrofula and syphilis. It seems to be hereditary, although not manifested perhaps until adult life from twenty to thirty years of age. The disease is probably con- tagious ; and it may be communicated by various articles of food, milk in particular, and especially the milk of the buffalo. Climate appears to have no restrictive influence on the development of leprosy for it IS found in cold latitudes, such as Norway, as well as under the Equator; but, owing probably to habits of life, as with regard to uncleanlmess under a hot climate, the disease has ever prevailed in Eastern countries. From the period of the Middle Ages, leprosy has died out m this country; having appeared in Scotland after it was extinct m England, and was last seen in Shetland. ("Edin Med Journ.," 1841 ; " History of Lepers," etc., by Sir James Simpson.)