URINARY DEPOSITS. 625 of urea into carbonate of ammonia, and this change may be induced by contact with any decomposing matter, stale urine in particular. (c.) Certain organic deposits, as blood-corpuscles, renal epithelium, and uriniferous tubule casts, are soon destroyed by an exposure of twelve or twenty-four hours, especially in urine of low specific gravity. But pus-corpuscles, scaly epithelium, and spermatozoa retain their microscopical characters for a much longer period, even to an advanced state of urinary putrefaction. Bearing in mind all these peculiarities of decomposed urine, the rule should be to examine any specimen of urine within a few hours after its emission. Clinical Examination of the Urine.—From a practical point of view, an examination of the urine is a much more simple procedure than that whereby original investigations are conducted, as commonly detailed in works on Urinary Pathology, and which necessarily involve a minute knowledge of chemical analysis and of microscopic manipu- lation beyond the requirements of clinical practice, or the time at command of those who are so engaged. The following method of examination represents the order of pro- cedure which will commonly be found sufficient, and the essential particulars to be noted with reference to morbid conditions of the urine, in ordinary cases. (1.) Physical Characters.—Observe the colour, clearness or turbidity, any deposit or foreign body, odour, and specific gravity,—as shown by the urinometer. Reaction—acid, alkaline, or neutral, as tested by a slip of litmus paper, or yellow turmeric paper; the one becoming red, when the urine is acid ; the other brown, when the urine is alkaline. A deposit—observe its colour, admixture with, or separation from, the urine, and whether floating on the surface as a pellicle, suspended as a cloud, or precipitated as a sediment, apparently amorphous or crystalline. (2.) Chemical Tests.—(a.) For Deposits. EfEect of heat.—Pour a sample of the urine, with deposit, if present, into a test tube, and over the flame of a spirit-lamp heat gradually to ebullition. Observe the disappearance of turbidity, as when a deposit of lithates; or the appear- ance of turbidity, as by a deposition of -phosphates. Or the latter appearance may be the coagulation of albumen. Drop a few drops of strong nitric acid into the tube, and heat again; the one deposit, phosphates, entirely disappears ; the other, albumen, becomes increased and consolidated. Other tests for deposits : solubility in acetic acid, in liquor potassse ; insolubility in both acids and alkalies. An approximate estimate of the whole quantity of lithic acid, or of phosphoric acid, excreted, beyond what is indicated by any deposit, should then be determined. ' (&.) For Foreign Constituents.—Albumen—note its absence or pre- sence; and make an approximate calculation, from the quantity in a o-iven measure of urine, oi the whole quantity passed in twenty-four hours. Sugar—note its absence or presence; and similar approximate calculation of quantity. Bile, its absence or presence. (3.) Microscopic jExamination.—Cvjsiah—noie the absence or pre- sence in urine, or in any deposit; their shape, or other characters. Note blood-corpuscles, pus and mucus corpuscles, epithelial cells, uriniferous VOL. IT. 2 s