CEPHALHiBMATOMA. 147 Suppuration occurring, the bag must, as usual, be laid freely open. Cephalhematoma, or blood-tumour of the scalp, forms sometimes in newly born children ; in consequence of pressure during parturition, or ia delivery by obstetric forceps. The pathology of a blood-tumour thus produced, is much the same as of that arising from an ordinary contusion of the scalp ; the blood collecting beneath the tendinous aponeurosis of the occipito-frontaHs muscle, or beneath the pericranium. Suha^poneurotic cephalhematoma presents a bag of blood, of soft fluctuating consistence and some size, with a rather hard boundary, situated over the eminence of one of the parietal bones. This blood- tumour is not peculiar to newly born infants; it occurs also, and perhaps more frequently, on the head in children, as caused by a fall or a blow. But it is the more common form of tumour. Suhpericranial cephalhaematoma has sufficiently distinctive charac- ters. . The blood-tumour is still soft in the centre, but circumscribed by a firm, raised border or margin, giving a relatively depressed appearance to the centre, or which feels hollow when the finger is inserted. The whole condition might be mistaken for a depressed fractui'e, with the adjoining margin of bone. But there are no brain- symptoms ; and perhaps the bone can be felt at the bottom of the depression. This species of blood-tumour, like the preceding, usually occurs on the parietal bone. Valleix has shown that the extravasa- tion of blood, situated between the pericranium and bone, is surrounded by a deposit of osseous and plastic matter, forming a hard ring around the blood; and that the inner aspect of this ring is almost vertical, while the outer aspect inclines down to the adjoining surface of the skull. This plastic boundary is adherent both to the bone and pericranium; but, except a covering of plastic matter, these parts have otherwise a healthy appearance. From Sir James Simp- son's observations, it seems that the plastic deposit may become ossified, forming a plate of bone on the under surface of the pericranium. Then, the tumour yields a crackling sensation, like parchment, when pressed with the finger. Suhpericranial cephalhgematoma is met •with only in new-born infants ; at least, such is the generally received opmion. It is the G. neonatortim of Naegele, Zeller, and other writers. But I have known a precisely similar description of blood-tumour produced on the forehead of a child five years old, in conseqnence of a fall on that part of the head. The cephalhematoma was situated over the right frontal eminence, was somewhat conoidal, and about the size of a smaU egg. Its centre felt depressed, and bounded by a firm nng, as if the margin of a depressed fracture; yet without any cerebral symptoms, while the bruised discolouration of the skin declared the nature of the tumour. Any such tumour, occurring at the time of birth, is far more frequently found in male than in female mtants; and perhaps more often in first parturitions. Treatment, with reference to suha/poneurotio cephalhematoma, should Be conducted as for the management of ordinary scalp-contusion and extravasation of blood; but the suhpericranial form of blood-tumour will subside, naturaUy, in the course of time. Compression, uniformly applied to the tumour, may, however, aid absorption. A parietal tumour, m one of my own cases, was thus apparently urged to disappear; while, m the other case, the frontal tumour subsided with-