80 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SL'RGEHY. Fia. 521* (2.) Compound dislocation of the liip-joint—a rare form of injury. (3.) Gunshot wound of the hip-joint; comprisinor either of these conditions, and more often fracture. (Fig. 521.) The diagnosis, as to the kind and extent of injury, may be very diiBcult. Possibly, no shortening, eversion, or crepitus, and little loss of power to move the limb in flexion , or extension; only a small aperture to be seen in tbe thigb, before or behind, witb no h^eraorrhage, and no pain experienced by the patient. The operation of excision for injury is per- formed in the same way as for disease, modified only by the state of the integument. After- treatment also requires no special notice. Results.—In the Crimea, of the fourteen cases of this operation in the Englisb Hospitals, only one recovered; of the thirteen cases in the French Hospitals, all were fatal; and ia the Schleswig-Holstein campaign, of the seven cases, there was only one recovery. The successful Crimean case had been ope- rated on by Dr. O'Leary. A fragment of shell struck the great trochanter of the left femur, producing a fracture, which commenced close to the head of the bone, and extended downwards and forwards between the two trochanters terminating about an inch and a quarter below the lesser. The external wound was small. The head of the femur and the trochanters were removed. In three months the man left his bed on crutches. At the end of six months, he had gradually regained the use of his limb, and, some time afterwards, was seen in London m excellent health. Although an almost invariably fatal operation the duration of hte after excision shows that it has no immediate danger. In the cases recorded, one of the patients lived five weeks, others from six to seventeen days, and only one for so short a period as twenty-two hours^ On the other hand, natural recovery is almost hopeless From gunshot wound of the hip-joint, one such result occurred aft^r the battle of Solferino; and another was seen at Nantes, m 18^0, by ^' ^Zpared with Amputation at the Eip-joint: in Military practice recovery very rarely occurs, death taking place usually within a day oi two after this operation. . . ,. , In the dilenima from the almost certam mortality of trusting to Nature, or performing amputation, the Surgeon may perhaps judi- ciously have recourse to the chance afforded by excision. In^the fifteen Hospitals stated in previous tables, respecting Excisions during the five years, 1870, it appears, from the i^turns S whfch I have been favoured, that there has been no case of exci- ^^^cxtJ'o^Sl^^^^^^^^^^^^ .OK I..u.Y.-This operation is re^ ferred to by Faure, as having been performed in a case which occurred ft the battle of Fontenoy; a wound of the ankle-joint by a biscaien. ^he artult ends of the'tibia and fibula, with the astragalus and por- » Univ. Coll. Mus., 91.