SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 286 of miicous, fibrous, or of malignant cliaracter—springing from witbin the sinus and expanding tbe cavity, may be treated in the same way as an abscess; the trepbine being applied witb tbe view of making an aperture for extirpating tbe tumour. Fractwres of tbe frontal sinus are liable to occur from direct violence, as a blow between tbe eyes; driving in tbe anterior wall alone, and perbaps producing a compound fracture, witb tbe lodgment of some foreign body, as by gunsbot wound; or fracturing also tbe posterior wall. In eitber case, tbe importance of tbe injury will depend on tbe presence of cerebral symptoms. Certain appearances might mislead the diagnosis; tbe removal of a portion of the anterior wall of tbe sinus, leaving i.be mucous membrane entire, may be attended witb an expansive movement of that membrane during each expiration, which somewhat resembles the pulsations of tbe dura mater; and, when the frontal cavity is opened, tbe discbarge of muco-purulent matter, mixed witb blood, may resemble softened cerebral substance, as if the posterior wall were fractured. Gentle examination witb the finger will at once determine the nature of the injury. These fractures must be treated with reference to contusion ; or the extraction of any foreign body, or fragments of bone from the sinus, and closure of the wound; and also with regard to cerebral compression, or the superven- tion of inflammatory symptoms. Foreign bodies are sometimes lodged in tbe frontal sinus ; as a bullet, from gunshot wound. It may remain quiescent, occasioning but little inconvenience; and at length be dis- charged through the nose. Worms have also been discharged from the nostrils, developed apparently in tbe frontal sinuses; their supposed origin being tbe introduction of ova from flowers or stagnant water. Various indefinite symptoms may suggest the possible development of worms ; superciliary pain or tingling sensation of some duration, with perhaps faintness or giddiness, and disturbance of vision. Diyness of the nostril, or an abundant secretion, sneezing, and itching of the nose, may look like a catarrhal attack; but all these symptoms recur at intervals, as if provoked by tbe movements of tbe worms within tbe sinus. To destroy and dislodge these intruders, various saline injec- tions may be tried by means of tbe nasal syphon-douche ; aided perhaps by plugging tbe posterior aperture of the nares on tbe same side, in order thus to direct tbe current more forcibly into tbe sinus through tbe anterior ethmoidal cells. Common snuff, taken with a forcible inspiration, has bad tbe effect of killing the enemy,—a good apology for an otherwise nasty habit. CHAPTER XLVI. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH. The Lips.—Wounds of the lips differ in no way from these lesions in general, excepting the liability of excessive bEemorrbage, compared witb the extent of injury, when the coronary artery is divided. The vessel will have to be secured by means of a twisted suture, as for