606 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Seat of Strich^e-Commonly, the stricture is situated at the mouth ot me sac ; next in frequency at the conjoined tendon, when ruptured • lastly, at the external abdominal ring. rupturea , P^f /emaZe, the anatomy of Inguinal hernia, oblique and direct, IS essentially the same as m the male; except that the round ligament m the inguiDal_ canal takes the place of the spermatic cord, and the Jabium pudendi that of the scrotum. Females are liable to both forms ot mgumal hernia, the oblique occurring at very early periods of life ^xceptmg umbilical hernia, oblique inguinal is the only kind developed betore hve years of age ; and, until the age of puberty, it is more com- mon than any other variety of hernia. This form is not much more rarely met with than femoral, as generally supposed. Thus, in 1582 females affected with hernia, in one form or the other, who came under Mr. Kmgdon's observation, 761 had inguinal hernia, and 812 femoral hernia. Or, the one was only thirty less than half the total number, whilst the other was only thii-ty more than half that number. But direct inguinal hernia is certainly very uncommon in females at any age. _ Sir A. Cooper never met with a single case in the course of his practice ; and Lawrence saw only one instance of this form of hernia in a female subject for dissection. Signs of ordinary Inguinal Hernia.—The oblique variety commences as a slight fulness or swelling at the internal abdominal ring, just above the centre of Poupart's ligament; next, passing downwards and inwards m the inguinal canal, it presents an oblong tumour having that direction, in this situation—an incomplete inguinal hernia, or bubonocele. (Fig. 789.) Still further pro- truding through the external abdominal ring and descending into the scrotum, or the labium in the female, the tu- mour enlarges into a globular form,— as a complete, or scrotal hernia. It may attain to an enormous size, extending down even to the knee, as in cases to which I have already referred ; although a far smaller size in women, unless in quite exceptionally rare cases, where the hernial tumour has extended two-thirds down the thigh. But—in males—the tes- ticle can always be felt distinct, at the bottom and back part of the fundus. The usual symptoms of hernia are perceptible ; enlargement and impulse on coughing in the erect attitude, diminution and disappearance of the tumour when compressed, in the recumbent position. These symptoms Avill, however, be more or less perceptible, according to the size of the hernial protusion; being less so when it occupies the inguinal canal, as bubonocele, and most conspicuous in scrotal hernia. In old-standing oblique hernia, the neck of the sac is dragged downwards and inwards towards the * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus,, 1316. Incomplete oblique inquinal hernia, on the left side, in the male. The tendon of the external oblique and the lower margins of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles having been raised, the hernial sac is seen in the upper half of the inguinal canal. The external ring is left entire. The obturator artery is given off by a short common trunk with the epigastric. (Howship.) Fig. 789.*