ORGANIC STRICTURE OP THE URETHRA. 705 handle of tlie mstrument is being depressed, wliei'eby the shaft acts as a powerful lever on the point in the urethral passage. The other method of introducing a catheter—when the patient stands upright—is performed in the opposite manner to that in the recumbent position. It is the " tour de maitre " of French authors. The patient standing with his back to a wall, so that the nates shall not recede during the procedure, and with his legs a little apart, the instrument is introduced with the curve looking downwards, and the handle in a perpendicular line beneath, the penis being drawn straight forward. Having passed the instrument in this direction as far as the subpubic arch, it is swept round to the right and raised upon the abdomen, thus describing a semicircle, of which the catheter-point is the centre; then the handle is gradually depressed, so as to carry the point of the instrument through the subpubic cnrve into the bladder. The existence of stricture having been ascertained by the obstruc- tion offered, at some point, to the introduction of a catheter along the urethra, its situation may be estimated by feeling the end of the in- strument behind the scrotum, or in front, as the case may be, and noted more accurately by the length of the instrument passed from the external meatus. The degree of contraction or the calibre of the canal at that point can be estimated by the size or number of the instrument used; the extent of the canal involved, by the length of the instrument " held " or " grasped " from the point of entering the narrowed portion of the urethra; while, at the same time, the amount of induration may be judged of by an experienced tact. A second or third stricture is discovered in like manner, by continuing the urethral examination. To complete the examination of any one or more strictures, several instruments, of different sizes, will perhaps be necessary. In the English scale of 12, the five series from 7 downwards will generally be found most serviceable for this purpose. The French scale possesses three advantages over the English scale : it commences with a smaller size—one millimetre, or one-third of an inch, instead of five milli- metres, and ascends by a series of smaller intervals between each number; the intervals are more regular; and the number of the catheter represents the calibre or size of the instrument—No. 1 being one milli- metre, No. 2 is two millimetres, and thence, by similar gradations, up to thirty millimetres. Nos. 3 to 21 about equal Nos. 1 to 12, English scale. No. 7 or 8 (English) size should always be tried first; a smaller-sized instrument is liable to hitch in one of the urethral lacunae, or against the verumontanum, or in the sinus pocularis, as if it were fixed in the stricture; or it might pass through the stricture imperceptibly. Either occurrence would mislead the Surgeon. The .smaller the instrument, the greater caution and delicacy must be observed in using it; lest, incautiously, the urethra be perforated. A soft wax bougie has been recommended with the view of taking an impression or mould of the size and extent of the stricture. Any such supposed advantage is more then neutralized by the difficulty of findin^^ the stricture, as compared with the facility in using an inflexible instrument. The introduction of ho^lr/ies, which are now much employed, require no special directions for their use. Causes.—Two classes of causes may be recognized as resulting in the tormation of an organic stricture. (1.) Inflammation of the urethra, with plastic deposit in the mucous