SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE BLADDER, PROSTATE GLAND, ETC. 605 covered entirely by tlie peritoneum, reflected upwards from tlie rectal or uterine cul-de-sac. (Fig. 852.) , , . n , The sides of the bladder are each crossed obliquely from behind by the cord of the obliterated hypogastric artery, passing forwards and upwards to the summit of the organ. Behind and above this cord, the peritoneal investment of the posterior surface is prolonged forwards ■over the sides of the bladder; but in front of the cord, which reflects the peritoneum, the sides are uncovered, being, however, here supported by an expansion of the recto-vesical fascia. This otherwise uncovered portion of the bladder, on either ^ side, is in immediate relation to Fig. 852.* •the ureter, which transmits the urine from the kidneys into the bladder, and the vas deferens or excretory dact of the testis. The ureter, a tube like a white band, having descended into the pelvis across the common or the external iliac artery, it curves downwards, forwards, and in- wards in the posterior vesical ligament, arching lelow the ob- literated hypogastric artery, to gain the lateral aspect of the base of the bladder, which it enters about two inches and a half from the prostate gland, and rather less than that dis- tance from the ureter on the opposite side; the tubes pene- trate the coats of the bladder obliquely for nearly an inch, passing through the muscular coat and then between it and the mucous coat, to open upon the inner surface of the bladder by two oblique slit-Uke apertures. The vas deferens, a small round cord-tube, one on each side, having entered the abdomen through the mternal abdominal ring, this cord curves backwards and downwards on the side of the bladder, to near its posterior surface; then, crossing the hypogastric artery and the ureter on the inner side of that tube, the cord turns forwards along the base of the bladder, lying to the inner side of the seminal vesicle, where, becoming enlarged and sacculated, the vas deferens enters the base of the prostate gland, there joining with the duct of the seminal vesicle to form the common ejaculatory duct. The vesiculce seminales, one on each side, are narrow, club- shaped, sacculated bodies, the large end being directed backwards, and extending to about two and a half inches in length. Consisting of a convoluted tube, encased in an offset of the prostatic portion of the recto-vesical fascia, each vesicle lies on the outer side of the vas deferens, and converges from behind forwards to the prostate. * Side view of Pelvis, iu Female; showing viscera laid open.—1. Sacrum. 2. Rectum. 3. Recto-vaginal pouch of peritoneum. 4. Vagina. 5. Bladder. 6. Common iliac artery. 7. Common iliac vein. 8. Fibro-cartilage of symphysis pubi.s. (From A. Janiuin.)