479 IRKEDUCIBLE HERNIA. cbaracter, unlike peritonetira, and adhesion takes place, obliterating the shrivelled cyst, or leaving only a fibrous cord. If the sac was large, a ti-ansitional state may be found; adhesion having occurred in ■ parts, a niultilocular cavity is temporarily formed. Various operative procedures have been devised for the radical cure of hernia, most of -which having justly become obsolete may be here omitted. The object being to obliterate the sac or its neck, this may be accomplished, either by simple invagination of the sac and integu- ment into the neck, the invaginated portion acting as a plug and closing the neck by adhesion between it and the hernial aperture; or, in addition to invagination, by the approximation and adhesion of the surrounding textures, thus producing further cotisoHdation. Three operations are practised, in accordance with these two methods; Gerdv's and Wurtzer's operations are simply invaginations; Mr. John "Wood's operation is, in addition, a comjpression of the boundaries of the hernial canal in its entire length. The performance of these operations will be described in connection with the treatment of itiguinal and femoral hernise. The results of any such occluding operation are uncertain; there is some risk of hfe, unwarrantable perhaps in order to remedy the purely mechanical incouYenience of a reducible hernia; and greater uncertainty as to a permanently successful result, without the inconvenience of continuing to wear a truss for protection against a relapse. Iereducible Hernia.—This condition signifies simply that the con- tents of a hernial sac cannot be reduced or returned, entirely at least, into the abdomen; but there is no obstruction to the passage of feeces through the intestinal portion, nor to the circulatioA,—the hernia is not incarcerated nor strangulated. The contents are, generally, for the most part omental, with intestine and mesentery, and the herm'a is usually long-standing and of large size; the gut perhaps slipping up occasionally, leaving the omentum unreduced. But nearly the whole of the abdominal viscera may be herniated. Thus, in scrotal hernia, examined after death, the sac has been found to contain all the intes- tines, except the duodenum and caecum, with the omentum, the pyloric orifice of the stomach being drawn down to the pubes,—as was the case in the hernia of Gibbon, the historian; and even a portion of the stomach, itself enormously enlarged, was contained in the scrotum of a soldier, whose case Mr. Tvan communicated to the French Royal Academy of Medicine. The largest irreducible hernia I have ever seen was in the scrotum of a man in the Millbank Penitentiary—the scrotum, on the jht side, hung down nearly to the knee; and Mr. Birkett met with a -nble scrotal hernia in a bricklayer, aged fifty-five years, where the mour reached down very nearly to a level with the patella;, and its circumference measured thirty inches. The left hernial tumour was • ^ic larger, although it had existed only about three years, whilst the .rht had been there twelve. Dr. Monro mentions a case in which the fundus of the hernia was four inches below the knee. CWe«.—Enlargement of the omentum or mesentery, as by an accumulation of fat, may lead to an irreducible condition' of hernia • although the portion protruding through the mouth of the sac may ho small. Adhesions between the sac and its contents, or adhesion of the neck of the sac, may soverally produce the same result. Contraction of the neck i.s sometimes thus occasioned, or an hour-glass constriction