363 DISEASES OF PHARYNX AND CESOPHAGUS. nften occurs in children of a scrofulous constitution without previous nhleffmon Insidious and painless, the enlargement usuaUy produces no otber symptoms than those arising from the mechanical occlusion of the tonsils. Hence some difficulty of swallowing and breathing, the child snoring at night, and awaking in alarm. The voice is muffled and there is more or less "throat-deafness " from other asso- ciated causes. Occasionally the hypertrophy attains to such an extent that the pharynx is almost occluded, and respiration is carried on inefficiently, and with considerable effort. As a result of this state of thintrs after a time, contraction of the chest-walls sometimes takes place 'and a permanent diminution in the capacity of the thorax becomes established. In some cases the tonsils are very much dis- ■ eased and the retained secretions become decomposed, so that they communicate great fetor to the breath, and doubtless also exercise a . pernicious influence on the general health, by contaminating the air \ which passes over them during inspiration. Superficial ulceration sometimes supervenes from time to time, 3 and acate inflammation frequently occurs. The abnormal secretions I may become inspissated and hardened, so as to form veritable calculitic concretions. rreffiiwie?2i.—Constitutional measures are of the greatest importance. ; A general tonic plan of treatment, in the form of steel wine or the other preparations of iron, bark, cod-liver oil, and a nutritious, well- : regulated diet, should be carried out. Sea-bathing is often rnost . advantageous. .Stimulating applications of nitrate of silver or iodine, ; though often employed, can scarcely affect the condensed areolar or i fibrous tissue of which the enlarged mass consists. In order to effect ! any good, a caustic sufficiently strong to destroy to some depth the ] part to which it is applied must be used. London paste (a combma- 1 tion of caustic soda and unslaked lime) is very efficient for reducing • the hypertrophy. It is sold as a powder, which is moistened with a i little water and rubbed up to a creamy consistency when about to be 1 employed. It should be applied to small patches of the diseased • tonsil, by the aid of a hard pen-holder pared down at one end, so as • to form a broad flat extremity. Immediately afterwards the application ; should be washed off by cold-water gargling. In this way successive layers of the diseased glands, of considerable thickness, can be gradually destroyed. Excision of the tonsil is the most efficient local remedy, but it should be reserved for an extreme state of chronic enlargement, when any of the already mentioned symptoms threaten to be detrimental to the general health. The mouth being kept widely open and the tongue gently depressed, the tonsil may be seized with a vulsellum, but not drawn out of its bed, and a sufficient quantity removed with a protected, blunt-pointed bistoury, or the same partial excision can be performed by means of a guillotine or tonsillotome. This instrument, of which there are two forms, was invented in America about half a century ago, but has since undergone some modifi- cations. In Physick's tonsillotome, the tonsil is encircled by a strong rim of metal, and a broad blade is then pressed down against it with the thumb. (Fig. 710.) In Fahnestock's instrument (Fig. 711), the excision is performed by a ring of steel sharpened on its in- ternal circumference, which, when it encloses the tonsil, is drawn