309 DISEASES IN DEVELOPMENT OF TEETH. in the soft parts surrounding such a wisdom tooth. The mildest form of the affection is that in which the gum overlying the half-erupted tooth, whether fi*om being bitten upon or, more commonly, from the increased tension, becomes inflamed, painful, and extraordinarily tender. Lancing such a gum does not do much good; it should be bodily cut away, and this can generally be effected by two well-directed cuts of a pair of curved scissors, which should be strong but very sharp, and with blunt points, to enable them to be easily insinuated between the gum and the tooth. Yery often, however, the gum is not merely inflamed, but is extensively ulcerated, the breath is very foetid, there is great swelling, the mouth cannot be opened (this is due to muscular spasm far more than to the swelling, and it can generally be opened with comparative ease if an ana3sthetic be administered), and- the patient's ^suffering is intense. If it be not relieved, profuse suppura- tion occurs in the region of the tooth, the pus generally making its way forwards, between the cheek and the teeth, but sometimes pointino« near the angle of the jaw (Fig. 684) ; the lymphatic glands may sup° purate, and necrosis of a limited portion of bone in the immediate neighbourhood of the tooth results. The necrosis is occasionally very extensive. In these cases great mischief may result from delay. There is a prevalent belief amongst the public, and unfortunately sometimes amongst their medical advisers, that a tooth should not be extracted during the continuance of acute inflammation. This belief is quite groundless, and the removal of a tooth should never be deferred for a day on this account, for far more extensive mischief may Pig. 684.. result from the irritation being kept up than can pos- sibly ensue from the lacera- tion of the inflamed tissues. So far mention has been made only of minor dis- placement of the teeth— such as admits of more or less easy remedy. Teeth may, however, be developed in very abnormal situations — the wisdom teeth, for instance, in the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw (Fig. 685), or in the angle of the jaw, looking outwards; or the canines (with their points directed upwards) in the nasal process of the superior maxilla, or in the antrum. Teeth which are thus far removed from their appro- priate position are apt to Bet up much irritation in of cXrf r"^"' ^^^^^^ °f formation "A i-yhts 01 partial necroses of the jaws. Fig. 685.