189 DISEASES OP THE EYELIDS. (2.) Abscess in the Meibomian follicles.—An obstructed follicle, con-, taining retained secretion, forms a minute, solid granule, which irri- tates the eye. Abscess of the follicle follows. The lower lid is com- monly affected. The treatment is simply a puncture and evulsion of the small nodule by means of a scoop; then the irritation subsides. (3.) Ciliary Blepharitis, or Ophthalmia tarsi.—Inflammation at the roots of the eyelashes, forming minute pustules, which, discharging, encrusts and mats the eyelashes together, and gums the eyelids during sleep. The hairs become misplaced and inverted, constituting the state named trichiasis; or the hair-bulbs are destroyed, and the hairs shed, leaving the margins of the lids ulcerated and raw, or rounded into a smooth, red, shining cicatrix, having neither hairs nor Meibomian orifices. Superadded to this state, the puncta may be obliterated, the tears running over the cheeks, causing irritability and blinking of the lids, and thus constituting the condition properly named lippitudo. Treatment.—Any accumulation of crusts must be carefully washed off night and morning, in order to remove this source of irritation, and to make applications to the minute sores at the roots of the hairs. For this twofold purpose, also, they may be kept closely cut with scissors, providing they are not inverted. Stimulating ointments, such as the diluted ung. hydrarg. nitratis, should then be applied by a small camel's- hair brush. Lotions are useful adjuncts—e.g., the carbonate of soda or the acetate of lead, from two to four grains in the ounce of distilled water. With ulceration, the hairs should be plucked out. Lippitudo may be much relieved by slitting up the canaliculi. The general treat- ment throughout must be tonic, and have special regard to the state of the digestive organs. Attention should be paid to the refraction of the eye, and, when required, appropriate glasses should be ordered. (4.) Trichiasis is an irregular growth of the eyelashes, the general form of the eyelid remaining unaltered, and the ciliary misplacement arising from any cause. A single hair, or several, may be affected, with proportionate irritation and a constantly watery state of the eye. The treatment is simple, and often effectual. The offending hair or hairs must be removed; a single hair by forceps, with a slow, steady pull so as not to snap it and leave the root; or several hairs may be removed by dissecting out the small portion of lid, external to the tarsal cartilage, in which their roots are implanted, and uniting the wound with a suture. Where only two or three cilia are wrongly directed, an ingenious little operation has been suggested to rectify this displacement. This consists in doubling a long hair, and thread- ing a needle with the loop. The point of the needle is then made to penetrate the edge of the lid at the base of the hair, and to emerge through the skin. As the loop follows, it is cast over the offending cilium, which is thus made to pursue the track of the needle, and assume a new direction in which it no longer comes into contact with the surface of the cornea. (5.) JEntropion.—An inversion of the lids as distinguished from tri- chiasis, which is a displacement, chiefly by ingrowth, of the eyelashes. But the two conditions are frequently associated. Both occasion the same symptoms of irritation of the eye, and are aggravated by their concurrence. Entropion arises from various causes, and presents, therefore, certain special and incidental symptoms. Spasm of the