224 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. (2.) Defective sight, as various forms of Daltonism, etc., is apparently •unconnected with any morbid state of the choroid or retina, as exa- mined by the ophthalmoscope ; although these functional defects are commonly attributed to structural changes in one or other of these tissues. (tt.) Impaired vision—Amblyopia and Asthenopia—or weak sight is a defective sight for near objects. It occurs mostly in those persons who are accustomed to use their eyes much in looking at minute ob- jects. Thus, jewellers, watchmakers, copying clerks, tailors, and needle- women are the common subjects of this affection. Yet it also occurs in those who follow no such occupations, but whose age is that of the turning period of life; say, approaching fifty. At first, small objects or small type are seen clearly, but in a few minutes they grow indistinct. A moment's closure of the eyes restores the power of vision. The work or type again becomes misty, and the effort to see is discontinued. Larger type will enable a reader to continue reading for a while, but ultimately this can be seen with difficulty, especially in artificial light. This condition usually results from the lenses being too fiat, or from the eyes being hypermetropic or flattened in the antero-posterior diameter, so that the ciliary muscle requires to be put in action and the lens rendered more convex, in order to bring even parallel rays of light, and a fortiori those that are divergent, to a focus on the retina. This muscular exertion soon produces fatigue, which gives rise to the symptoms already mentioned. The treatment con- sists in the selection of appropriate glasses. In young persons, up to the age of thirty or even forty, the contractile power of the ciliary muscle should be paralyzed by the instillation of solution of atropine. The patient is then placed in a condition in which he is unable to accommodate his vision for near objects, or, in other words, to make his lens more convex. The strongest convex glass, which will enable him to see distant objects, is that which he requires. In some instances it will be found to be expedient to begin with glasses of somewhat feebler power than those giving perfect distant vision, and gradually to rise to the full strength required. In those over forty years of age the instillation of atropine may be omitted, and the glasses ordered which enable distant objects to be seen with distinctness. In the pre.sbyopia of old age, which results from the natural flattening of the lens to which all eyes are subject, and which is in progress from childhood, such glasses should be given as enable the wearer to read ordinary print with comfort at a distance of eight or ten inches. A convex glass of forty inches' focus will usually be found agreeable to begin with, and these may, at moderate intervals of time (one or two years), be increased to ten inches, beyond which it is rarely requisite to go if the eye has been originally healthy. The treatment certainly should have reference to the condition as an optical disarrangement, and not to any supposed congestion of the choroid, or disordered digestion. (i.) Muscoe Volitantes.—lAii\e black objects are sometimes seen to fall or float over the field of vision, when the eye is fixed; a sudden turn of the eye will disperse them for a moment, again to reappear. Steady concentration of the vision on any external object obliterates these black specks, but any slight alteration of the focus of adjust- ment, brings one perhaps into view, and immediately the whole field