POLYPUS OF THE RKCTUM. 583 Fig. 843* vascular and semi-malignant; (4) the Jibro-cellular or mucous polypus ; and (5) the fibrosis polypus. The first four species are soft ^ con- sistence, and the vascular forms are prone to bleed ; the fifth is hard, and conlparatively bloodless. In point of situation, any form of polypus springs from the mucous membrane within the sphincter; but generally at the lower part of the rectum, ranging from about an inch to three inches from the anus. The size varies in different species; the ordinary vascular polypus being about the size of a pea or a cherry, the villous species attaining to that of an orange. (Fig. 843.) This form of polypus has been spe- cially described by Mr. Quain. Polypus-growth is usually single, but more than one or several may form. The period of life varies, and principally in relation to the species of growth. Vascular polypus is the form commonly found in children ; other species chiefly in adults,—a villous polypus, in the rectum of a man aged seventy, was not de- tected until about five years previously. The spe- cimen is preserved in the Museum of St. George's Hospital. Generally speaking, polypus of the , a- a rectum occurs most frequently in children, according to bir A. Cooper's experience ; in adults, according to the observations ot iJushe and Syme. „ , ■, n it. Symptoms.—The general symptoms of rectal polypus are those referable to the presence of a foreign body in the rectum. A sense of weight and fulness, with tenesmus and mucous discharge, is followed by protrusion of the growth when an evacuation occurs, and spasmodic contraction of the sphincter, if the tumour be situated in the anus or is attached by a long stalk higher up. As a growing polypus enlarges, diarrhoea, flatulent distension of the bowels, irritabihty of the blad- der, and other sympathetic affections supervene. Obstruction ot the bowel produces variously contorted or figured faeces, and sometimes leads to almost complete retention of the faeces, with intestinal disten- sion. This result happened in the case of the villous growth just alluded to. • i i In addition to these symptoms of mechanical ongm, haemorrhage, recurring from time to time, is characteristic of the vascular forms of polypus,°as distinguished from those which bleed less readily. Malig- nant vascular polypus is attended, moreover, with certain peculiar symptoms: pain, lancinating and extending up the sacrum and down the thighs, amounting to scalding agony when a motion passes; copious bloody, fetid, purulent discharge, as ulceration supervenes; and the sallow cachectic emaciation of advanced cancerous disease. Examination of the polypus-growth will determine the particular species ; and this can be accomplished, either by injection of warm * Koy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 1276. Villous cancer of the rectum—the bowel being inverted. The filaments are from a line to half an inch in length, and the sub- jacent mucous membrane appeared healthy. There is a large irregular aperture, as if the bowel had been torn, rather than ulcerated. From a person who had an artificial anus in the groin for thirty years before death. This had resulted from mortification of a herniated portion' of the sigmoid flexure of the colon; with, at last, complete closure of the intestine below. (W. Lawrence.)