165 HERNIA CEREBRI. It i-avely occurs at the base of the skull; brain-subsfcance then being forced through the ear, nose, or possibly into the pharynx. The appearances are those of brain-substance, more or less mo- Fig^05.* dified; as having a brown colour aud bloody character. ISTerye- tubules, with the products of in- flammation, may be discovered Tinder the microscope. The moi-e obvious appearances, as well as the microscopic characters, will therefore distinguish brain-sub- stance either from a collection of blood protruding under the pia mater, or exuberant granulations from the brain. And, moreover, hernia cerebri is continuous with the brain. The cawses of hernia cerebri would seem to be the loss of a portion of bone—hence rare in fracture of the base—and compression of the brain, resulting from inflammation, with the effusion of lymph and pus, or from extravasation of blood, or perchance the presence of a foreign body. The surrounding portion of brain becomes congested, and undergoes yellow softening and disintegration, abscesses form in the hemisphere, and effusion distends the ventricles. _ The products of inflammation occupy also the cavity of the arachnoid and the sub- arachnoid tissue. Protrusion may take place as the immediate conse- quence of fracture, but more frequently at a subsequent period,—days or weeks afterwards, when inflammation is established. The symptoms then are those of inflammation of the brain and its membranes, and such as may exist without any protrusion. Age would appear to have some predisposing influence; for protrusion is more often met with at an early period of life. In thirteen cases, ten were under thirty years, eight the youngest, and twenty-seven the oldest; three were from forty to forty-six years, the latter being the oldest patient of all. The course and terminations of hernia cerebri are peculiar. Varying in size and shape, according to the aperture in the dura mater through which it had to pass, the tumour gradually increases, in bulk, even forming a large mass which may overlap and conceal the wound in the scalp; daily breaking down and sloughing, the tumour is con- ■ stantly reproduced by further protrusion. Pew symptoms, perhaps, of cerebral disturbance accompany this course of destruction; but at length coma supervenes, and death ensues, as the usual issue. Occa- sionally the tumour sloughing, or shrinking, it wastes away, and cicatrization of the wound follows ; the patient recovering without any apparent impairment of his brain-power. This was the result after a very large protrusion; in one remarkable case, published by Mr. Spring, in the " Lond. and Bdin. Month. Joum.," 1844, the patient lived eleven years, and after death, the left side of the cranium is said to have been found quite empty. The relative mortality, in fourteen cases, amounted to twelve deaths, and only two recoveries. Treatment.—As a general rule, hernia cerebri should not be inter- fered with. Pressure, as by means of a wet lint-compress and ban- * University Coll. Mus., 13Ia.