13 CONDITIONS OF KNEE-JOINT DISEASE FOR EXCISION. Fig. 481.* Fig. 482.t Knek-.totnt.—The Conditions of Disease appropriate for Excision.—-'TyxQ knee-joint, considered in relation to the operation of excision, illus- trates the three general rules as to the conditions proper for opera- tion :—Destruction of the articular cartilages, and perhaps dislocation (Fig. 479), without the supervention of anchylosis, but whilst the con- stitutional condition has not advanced to hectic and eraaciation; anchylosis of a nature inappropriate to the functional use of the limb —namely, here' ligamentous union ; or such anchylosis, coupled with malposition of the limb (Fig. 480) by retraction and dislocation. But there are also certain peculiar conditions as pertaining to the knee-joint which more especially determine the propriety of excision. (1.) Compared with other joints, a certain limit to the extent of disease is essential to success. The disease must not extend in either the femur or the tibia beyond the limits requisite for the formation of sufficiently wide-based osseous sur- faces to permanently support the weight of the body, and for the preservation of a sufficient length of limb to be really useful. (Fig. 481.) The patella should always be removed, as being diseased in some cases, and always useless as a remnant after excision of the joint. (2.) In young. subjects — under the age of about ten or twelve years—it is of importance that the disease should not" extend beyond the limits necessary for the preser- vation of the epiphyses or of the epiphysial cartilages (Fig. 482); the integrity of the latter, at least, being requisite for the subsequent growth of the bone, and thence of the limb, in length. The observations which led to this rule were originally made by Pro- fessor Humphry, of Cambridge. Operation.—Excision of the knee-joint for disease, originally introduced by Filkin, of Northwick, in 1762, was followed by Park, of Liverpool, as an inde- pendent originator, in 1781; but the operation, per- formed by Syme in 1829, and on the continent by Heyfelder in 1849, was revived by Sir William Fergusson in 1850, and followed immediately by Jones, of Jersey, and Mackenzie, of Edinburgh. The patient lying recumbent, and under the influence of chloro- form, the limb, already bent by retraction of the leg consequent on the joint disease, is firmly held by an assistant so as to present the knee vertically; his one hand grasping the thigh, the other hand the leg, the foot of which rests on the table. The knee-joint is most conve- niently laid open for excision by a curved horseshoe-shaped incision (U), extending from the side of one condyle downwards across the head of the tibia, just below its ai-ticular surface, to the same point on the side of the opposite condyle. Thus both ends of bone are exposed. A second sweep of the knife, dividing the ligamentum patellae, will * Eoyal Free Hospital. (Author.) t Diagram, section of knco-joint in young subject; transverse lines showing the hmitfl of excision through epiphysis of femur and of tibia.