INJURIES OF THE BLADDER. 619 vulva, immediately above the entrance to the vagina, and below the symphysis pubis, about an inch beneath and behind the clitoris, and between the commissure of the inner, smaller labia, or nymphse. (Pig. 858.) The urethral tube consists of mucous membrane, with an outer layer of submucous cellular and elastic tissue, enveloped by a vascular structure containing a plexus of veins. The mucous membrane has a pale colour, except adjoining the external orifice; and it presents longitudinal folds,—one more especially, in the floor of the canal, which corresponds to the median crest in the prostatic portion of the male urethra. Numerous tubular mucous glands lie between the folds of membrane, with their apertures directed towards the bladder; and mucous follicles open within and around the outer orifice of the urethra. Both these forms of gland are of larger size towards the more external portion of the tube. The vessels and nerves proceed from those which supply the vagina. Injuries of the Bladder. The Bladder, lodged within the bony wall^ of the pelvis, is less liable than many other organs to external Injury, as wounds or rupture ; and only occasionally to the intrusion of foreign bodies from without, through the urethra or by gunshot penetration; but it is very com- monly the receptacle of urinary concretions or Calculi, and it is subject to various Diseases, principally inflammation and moi'bid growths or tumours. This organ is also specially prone to Functional Disorders ; e.g., irritability of the bladder, arising from numerous causes, local and constitutional. These lesions, diseases, and disorders severally demand the atten- tion of the Surgeon, in regard to their special pathology and treatment. Laceration of the bladder happens not unfrequently with fracture of the pelvis, this additional injury being a most serious complication in consequence of the extravasation of urine. An open wound, as by a bullet, may allow the urine to escape freely, externally; and recovery has then been known to result. Several such cases are related by Guthrie and by Thomson as having occurred at the battle of Waterloo. Rupture of the bladder is also not uncommon, as caused by blows, kicks, or contusions on the lower part of the abdomen; especially ■ when the bladder is fully distended and rises above the pubes in cou- ' tact with the abdominal wall. Thus, this accident may happen from ! a fall in wrestling, the uppermost man coming down upon his antago- : nist; or from running against a post in the dark, an instance of which I is related by Listen. In that case a large calculus, which occupied the I bladder, was shattered into fragments by the concussion. The effects of laceration or rupture of the bladder vary according to 1 the seat of injury, as above or below the reflection of the peritoneum • ' whereby extravasation of urine takes place into the peritoneal cavitv' < or into_ the cellular tissue of the pelvis. In the one condition, fatal I peritonitis speedily ensues; in the other, diffuse inflammation is fol- 1 lowed by sloughing of the cellular texture of the pelvis and abdominal 1 wall as infiltration proceeds, and a less speedy termination The symptoms of ruptured bladder are obvious ; sudden and intense t bummg pam, m the hypogastric region, with immediate collapse, and