166 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. dage, or the removal of the tumour, either by slicing it off, or hy ligature, have both been practised ; the repressive method of treat- ment, origmally, I believe, by Sir Charles Bell, in this country ; while excision of the fungoid protrusion down to the bone, as advocated by Abernethy and Dr. Hill, has more recently been revived by Professor bpence. But pressure is apt to induce coma, and excision is commonly followed by re-protrusion, with more profound coma. A third method of treatment has been proposed: the application of pressure after slicing off the protruded portion of brain, thus to avoid the perds of either method separately, and that granulation with cicatrization may close the aperture. Generally, however, the better course is simply to keep the part scrupulously clean, by gently syringing with cold water, and water-dressing; assisted by slight pressure, when the protrusion is small. Any splinter or depressed fragment of bone, or other foreign body, should be extracted, when accessible without undue risk; and particular care must be taken, in such operation, not to injure the dura mater. Antiphlogistic measures must, of course, be combined with local assistance. The .prevention of hernia cerebri, by compression, has proved far more successful than any curative treatment. Thus, the tendency to protrusion consequent on the removal of any loose portion of bone in comminuted fracture, or after trephining, may be overcome by a well-adjusted pad of lint, and bandage around the head. Injuries of the Bbain. — Concussion. — Literally signifying a shaking, more or less severely, this also is the pathological meaning of the term concussion. Concussion of the brain is a shaking of the brain. (1.) No lesion of the brain may be discovered after death ; and it was formerly held—perhaps is still maintained by some Surgeons—that' concussion may prove fatal immediately, without a trace of injury to, or in, the brain-substance. But of late years, this doctrine has been disproved by more careful post-mortem examinations. It is now held by sevei-al pathologists, who have specially investigated cerebral affec- tions ; that, in concussion, instantaneously fatal, appreciable lesions are to be found in the brain. These lesions may be various; points of extravasated blood, numerously scattered, or circumscribed patches of contusion or bruising, on, or in, the brain-substance. Such is the pathology of concussion of the brain, as shown by Chassaignac, Nela- ton, Sanson, Dr. Bright, Blandin, M. Fano, and enforced by the observations of Mr. Prescott Hewett. (2.) In concussion, not immediately fatal, where life continues for a short time or a few hours, another result is found ;—intense conges- tion of the cerebral vessels and permeating the whole brain-substance ; without perhaps any actual lesion. (3.) Slight concussion, followed by recovery, is probably connected with similar injury to the brain and congestion; varying only in degree, and having no definite proportion to the previous symptoms of concussion. The state of disoreranization of the brain is sometimes verified by post-mortem examination, after slight concussion, when death has occurred from some other injury. These are the only essential lesions in concussion of the brain, as authenticated by more recent observations. The question, in both a positive and negative sense, is obviously of much importance Surgically, and no less so from a Medico-legal point of view.