SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. pSure S'nll"^^^""''^ ^"'^ ^^"^^^'^ P^^^^^e from the piessure ot anx ety, are no less restorative ; while everv oncoura<re- ment must be given to cheerfulness and hope. ^ cncoui.t^c All this constitutional treatment not unfrequently fails to cure the sp^torrhcm; the local irritability of th^ prostatic urethrstill lemaining. Kecourse must be had to the application of nitrate of silver along the under surface of this portion of the urethra, to the orifices of the ejaculatory ducts. Tbis method of treatment, first prominently brought into notice by i^allemand can be effected by means of the parte-camtique, or bv a syrmge-catheter. The former instrument is also a kind of catheter but which acts by protruding its end, carrying the caustic. This portion however, is apt to be grasped by spasmodic muscular action, and can then be returned only with difficulty into the shaft; or it may perhaps become fixed m the prostatic urethra, owing to some defect in the instrument, as happened in the person of a gentleman on whom Dr Humphry was operating. In the syringe-catheter, a piece of sponge charged with a solution of the caustic, is compressed by pushing down a firm stylet within the catheter; whereby the solution is forced out of about a dozen minute apertures near the end of the instrument. This mode of applying the caustic has the advantage of being safer and more manageable than by the porte-caustique. It is highly com- mended by Mr. Erichsen, who uses a solution of the strength, generally, of one drachm of the nitrate to an ounce of water. In applying either of these instruments, the prostatic urethra is known to be reached by the distance to which the shaft has passed, and by feeling with the finger in the rectum, also by the sensitiveness of the part. Con- siderable irritation, pain, and bloody or muco-purulent discharge, follow the operation ; with perhaps an aggravation of the nocturnal emissions. These subsiding in a few days, the cure may be complete; or the caustic may have to be reapplied when the urethra can bear it, at intervals of a week or two; and sometimes no good results from the treatment. Impotence^ signifies an absence, loss, or premature decay of sexual and procreative power, with generally a corresponding negation of sexual desire. The seminal secretion may be absent; a condition known as Asperma, and which contrasts with that of Seminal Mux. But, as in that condition, any slight secretion is often thin and spurious; not containing spermatozoa, or only in scanty quantity. It ^ is highly important not to mistake the nature of the prostatic secretion; which may be discharged from the urethra as a tenacious fluid, like white of egg, in small quantity, and following the urine, or expelled during defeecation, especially when accompanied by a straining effort. Such discharge is quite consistent with the full possession of sexual and procreative power; or with the absence of seminal fluid, and consequent impotency. The cause of impotence may be some congenital or acquired defi- ciency of, or affecting, the genital organs. Congenital impotency is sometimes a cerebral imperfection, as occurring in idiots; or from a want of that concurrence of forces which is requisite for the complicated process of generation. This constitutional impotence is not necessarily associated with any dis- coverable imperfection in the organs, or any obvious defect of bodily