SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 666 influenced by the quantity of muco-pnrulent secretion, as estimated by its discbai'go in the urine; and the dui-ation of this twofold condition of urine will, of course, affect the resulting proportion of the en- crusting deposit. At length, even portions of phosphatic concretion may be passed with the urine. It is necessary to observe that the urine is ammoniacal when passed, and not as the result of decom- position, subsequently. Treatment.—Urinary calculi may be subjected to two kinds of treatment—medical and surgical. Medical treatment has two objects in view: the prevention of the formation of a calculus, when the causative conditions predisposing thereto exist; the removal of a calculus by solution, and the expulsion of its constituents through the urethra, or the solvent treatment. Surgical treatment is restricted to the accomplishment of the latter object—the removal of a calculus, and by means of certain operative and mechanical procedures : Uthotrity, the removal of a stone mechani- cally, by crushing it in the bladder with instruments, and extraction or expulsion piecemeal of the debris through the urethra, or perhaps by simple dilatation of the urethra without any cutting operation; litho- tomy, or the extraction of stone by a cutting operation. The two kinds of treatment are here stated in the order of their relative desirability, but their practicabilty is nearly the reverse, sur- gical treatment being generally far more efEectually curative. Preventive Treatment.—The prevention of calculous concretion pre- supposes the recognition of any such signs as may indicate a predis- position thereto, and in due time to anticipate this result. An habitual and persistent deposit in the urine of some one or more of the consti- tuents of a calculus, is the surest indication of the probable issue. Thus, persistent deposits of uric acid, urates, oxalates of lime, earthy phosphates, or cystine, as the constituents, severally, of the more common species of urinary calculi, are premonitory of their formation; but only under, or particularly, certain circumstances of urinary deposit. The significant conditions are when the deposit, as of uric acid or oxalate of lime, is found in the urine immediately after micturition, or is deposited before it has cooled. Either appearance would indicate that the constituent of one or the other concretion is secreted with the urine. Whereas, the same appearance taking place at a subsequent period, when the urine has stood for a few hours, might be the result of after-changes. An ammoniacal condition of urine, in connection with cystitis, has always a tendency to concretion of the earthy phos- phates deposited. The liabihty to calculous formation will be obvious whenever any portion of concretion has passed with the urine, or the patient has undergone an operation—lithotrity or lithotomy—for the removal of stone from the bladder. Preventive treatment may be general, as relating to all calculi, or special, as relating to the different species of stone. The general indi- cations are to prevent any concentration of urine, and its prolonged retention in the bladder. Either or both conditions would obviously have a direct causative tendency to the formation of calculous concre- tion. Concentration of the urine occurs mostly after fastmg, some hours previous to the next meal, and during sleep ; in the latter phy- siological state of the system also, the urine is not only scanty, but retained in the bladder for a longer period than in the daytime. Aua