180 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. sebaceous follicles in the scalp. Any such cyst-tumour is then commonly known as a wen. Sometimes, however, it may be a new formation. The tumour is usually round, or somewhat conical, varying in size from a marble to a horse-chestnut or larger, and of soft or more soHd consistence and elastic character, according to the thickness of the cyst-wall and the density of the contained sebaceous matter. The tumour is painless, or tender only when handled or injured. The cyst-wall, having a fibro-cellular structure lined with epithelium, may be quite thin and membranous, or thick, and forming a fibrous capsule, when the follicle has long undergone hypertrophy. But the cellular connection of the capsule with the scalp is generally so loose, that it can be readily detached from its bed. The sebaceous contents vary in colour and consistence. In a recent wen, the con- tained matter has a whitish or yellowish colour, and is soft, like clotted cream; in a wen of longer duration, this matter is greyish and firmer, resembling putty, or friable and sometimes stratified in concentric layers. Or the contents may have a mixed character, partly soft and yellowish, partly dry, and of a greenish, brown, or black colour. These different appearances of the sebaceous matter correspond to de- generative changes; a caseous transformation, and discolouration produced perhaps by changes in the hsematosine of blood-corpuscles which have become intermixed, by pressure or other slight injury to which the scalp-tumour has been exposed. Under the microscope, the sebaceous matter is seen to consist chiefly of cholesterine, associated with blood-particles, epithelial scales, and perhaps abortive hairs. Wens are often multiple, giving to the head a singularly nodulated and unsightly appearance ; more conspicuous when the person is bald. The diagnosis of an ordinary scalp-wen is simple; for although, in a thin-walled cyst, the consistence may resemble a subcutaneous fatty iwnour, or lipoma, the irregular or somewhat lobulated surface and even the doughy character of this form of tumour are distinctive. While an ahscess is distinguished by its more fluid or fluctuating, rather than elastic character, the tumour is less movable—owing to surround- ing infiltration ; and when threatening to point, the throbbing, painful swelling will further declare its nature. A thick-walled sebaceous cyst is unlike both these kinds of tumour. Sometimes, a black point may be found on the summit of the cyst, and through this—which is the obstructed duct of the follicle—some sebaceous matter may be squeezed, and thus the diagnosis will be determined. In the ordinary course of a scalp-wen, the tumour remains simply a harmless disfigurement. But it is ever liable to inflame and ulcerate, the integument over the cyst acquiring a bluish-red colour, the skin becomes thinner and cracks, and an oozing discharge scabs the surface; when this is removed or falls off, a small fretting ulcer remains, which enlarging slowly, at length evacuates the contents of the cyst, leaving a circular cavity, with a thickened margin, and discharging a thin foetid fluid. In consequence of inflammatory infiltration around the cyst, the tumour loses its movable character, and, getting set in the scalp, resembles a more solid tumour with the integument over it inflamed. Rarely, the cyst itself is loosened by suppuration, and expelled; the cavity closing up by granulation, and cicatrization com- pleting this natural mode of cure. But scalp-wens are generally found in persons who are past middle age, and whose health is