riG. 806. 524 Fig. 805. SPKOIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEllY. entirely withm the limit of the scrotal incision. If, however, the slcin be accidentally punctured, the incision may be extended to meet that point. One of the ends of wire, the inner more conveniently for the purpose of compression, is then again hooked on to the needle, and drawn with it across the cord through or behind the sac, traversing the scrotal fascia. (See Fig. 805.) Then, the ends of the wire are to be drawn down, until the loop above is close to the skin; here it is fixed by the finger of an assistant, while the Surgeon twists the ends round each other, giving them three or four turns. This manoeuvre twists the enclosed sac and fascia which are held between the ends of the wire. Lastly, the loop is drawn steadily upwards, so as to invaginate the twisted sac and scrotal fascia firmly into the inguinal canal, up to the internal abdominal orifice. The loop is then, in its turn, twisted well down into the upper or groin aperture, giving it the same number of turns. Certain manipulations will enable the operator to determine whether all is secure; by placing his forefinger on the scrotal aper- ture, he may judge whether the external ring is closed satisfactorily by the tightening of the wire, and the effect of traction on the wire upon the posterior wall can also be distinguished. Great care should also (rv ^ I the'ring, which would prevent their direct union. The projecting ends of wire are cut off by pliers, about three inches from the surface, and hooked up under the loop; both forming an arch over the intervening skin. A roller is then lodged beneath the arch (Fig. 806), and a broad spica- bandage applied to make firm compression upon the roller, as steadied by the arch of wire. The period for untwisting the wire is about the eighth or tenth day, and it may be removed about the fourteenth, or a§ late as twenty-one days when consolidation takes place slowly. It should be withdrawn through the upper puncture, thus not to disengage the invagination. A truss must be worn eventually, and Mr. Wood recommends the horseshoe-pad truss, of sufficient strength to support but not to com- press, with a pad formed to make flat pressure, and over the neigh- bouring parts as well as the obliterated canal. Cases have been treated entirely without truss.