SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 104 other case, exhaustion from shock or from blood-poisoning, soon after the operation or at a later period. (2.) Hygienic conditions relate principally to an impure atmo- sphere, as arising from deficient ventilation, defective drainage, or want of personal cleanliness; and to zymotic influences; also to the food, in respect to its quality and quantity. It is mainly on account of impure atmospheric conditions that the mortality from amputations in large towns contrasts unfavourably with those in the country. And the causes of death are different: in towns, exhaustion, tetanus, pyeamia, erysipelas, and hospital gangrene; in the country, haamor- rhage and acute inflammation. But there is reason to believe that the principle now observed in the best Metropolitan Hospitals,—the segre- gation instead of the aggregation of patients, will tend to equalize the relative mortality after operations in town and country. At the Royal Free Hospital, where this principle is rigorously observed, pyaemia, for example, is of very rare occurrence. (3.) (a.) The operation itself, as to whether the amputation be performed for injury or disease, is followed by a very different rate of mortality, and in favour of disease. Thus, the mortality resulting from amputation in the thigh and leg, as performed in the Provincial Hospitals, differs considerably under these circumstances; being, in regard to the thigh, 61 per cent, after amputation for injury, and only 23 "4 per cent, after amputation for disease ; and in respect to the leg, 40 per cent., as compared with 25"5. In the Parisian Hospitals, Malgaigne's statistics show less disproportionate results between the operation for injury and disease; in the thigh, 74 per cent., and 60 per cent.; in the leg, 63"3, and 49. But, after amputation of the foot, the proportionate mortality was 66'6 per cent., and 10"3 per cent.; and after the operation in the arm, 56'6, and 6'5. In University College Hospital, the results of 274 cases of amputation in the thigh, leg and foot, shoulder and arm, and forearm, presented the following total proportion of mortality :—For injury, in 92 cases, 36 deaths, or 39"1 per cent.; for disease, in 182 cases, 30 deaths, or only 16'5 per cent. Professor Spence has recorded the results of his amputations in 403 cases, in the lower and upper extremities :—For injury, 144 cases, with 60 deaths, or rather less than 1 in 2 ; for disease, 259 cases, with 60 deaths, or less than 1 in 5. These results exclude all amputations of less magnitude than those at the wrist and ankle joints. The causes of the greater relative mortality after amputation for injury would appear to be the greater severity of the shock, the tendency to pyaemia, the liability to tetanus, or to gangrene of the stump ; whereas, exhaustion or pneumonia would seem to be the chief causes of a fatal result from amputation for disease. The kind and the extent of the local condition has also an unquestionable influence on the result of the operation ; as illustrated by the importance of com- pound and comminuted fracture, and of malignant disease, in rela- tion to their mortality after amputation. With regard to disease, a chronic state of the morbid condition is least unfavourable for opera- tion ; as is well illustrated by the results of excision of the joints and bones. (h.) The period after injury least unfavourable for amputation has led to the distinction of primary and secondary amputations; the one being performed within the first twenty-four hours, or before the