^'^'^ SrECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGKRY. skin supervening, the slough separates, and an artificial anus is estab of tt TV'™'' "^'^^'^^^^ ^^k- P^-« between ho utk of the sac and the hernial aperture; thus preventing the escape of f»cal matter backwards into the abdomen. If the hernial stdcture were relieved at this or even an early stage of gangrenous intestine and short of sphacelus, the intestine might not rlgail its vitality; the portion of bowel remaining nipped and marked as by a band constrict- ing It. i have thus seen strangulation of only half the circumference ot a portion of intestine prove fatal after operation. Omentum passes through similar changes of congestion and gangrene; and, if unreduced, the sac and its coverino-s may slou^rh and the portion of omentum become detached, the patient making a good recovery. ° Peritonitis coincident with strangulation, commences about the neck of the sac, and spreads over the abdomen. The pathological appearances are not peculiar; an injected peritoneal surface, mth plastic lymph of greenish-yellow colour, agglutinating the intestines or overspreading them, and puriform serum accumulated in the cavity of the peritoneum. From 126 fatal cases of hernia, collected by Mr Bryant, it would appear that in about 69 per cent, peritonitis with lymph-effusion is the cause of death. Causes.—The formation of Hernia depends upon a weakness of some point of the abdominal or pelvic wall, and thus an insufficient resistance to the protruding pressure of the viscera, as subject to the compressing action of the abdominal muscles and diaphrao-m. The causes of hernia are, therefore, of two kinds, predisposing and exciting. (1.) Preclisposincj causes.—Structural predisposition consists in the natural existence of the various anatomical apertures in the abdominal and pelvic wall, corresponding to the normal situations of Hernia ; and congenital malformation is predisposing, chiefly as connected with congenital and infantile inguinal hernia; or the predisposition may arise quite accidentally, from injury—by contusion, or by distension of the abdomen during pregnancy or dropsy, or as the result of disease— by abscess or other weakening disorganization of some part of the abdominal wall. Laxity of some of the abdominal viscera might be reckoned among structurally predisposing conditions—e.g., the ileum having a long mesenteric attachment, and hanging near the inguinal and femoral rings ; the omentum also loosely hanging as a sort of abdominal apron, when not tucked up to the right as in some cases. General predisposition relates to sex, age, hereditary influence, and occupation. Sex.—Hales are far more subject to hernia than females. Mr. King- don estimates the proportion at 2 males to 1 female, for all ages and including every form of hernia. Out of a gross total of 96,886 appli- cants for trusses at the City of London Truss Society, 78,394 were males; 18,492 females. In relation to the pojpulation, the frequency of _ hernia is uncertain ; the proportion has been estimated as high as 1 in 8 of the male inhabitants of the whole kingdom, and 1 in 5 of the inhabitants of one district. In France, Malgaigne estimated the proportion as being 1 man in 13, and 1 woman in 62. In relation to the situation of hernia, males are more subject to inguinal, females to femoral and umbilical hernias. The relative proportion is shown by