SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 200 eye being immediately afterwards freely washed with a weak solution of common salt. Chemosis having formed, destruction of the cornea is threatened, apparently by strangulation of the surrounding sclerotic vessels. Tension must, therefore, be at once relieved. This is accomplished by incising the swollen conjunctiva, from the cornea to its palpebral reflection, on either side of the eye ; care being taken, in using a small curved bistoury, not to wound the sclerotic coat. Warm fomentations ■will aid the bleeding and discharge. The general treatment equally has in view the liability to ulcerative destruction of the eye, especially in a weak, debilitated subject, whose power of assimilation has already failed. Tonics and a nutritious diet are, therefore, far more appro- priate than any depletory measures. Opiates may be combined with advantage to allay the irritability of weakness. Purulent Ophthalmia, in new-born infants.—Oijlithahnia neonatorum commences within a few days of birth, usually about the third day. The symptoms much resemble those of the disease in adults. The tumid overhanging upper lids are a conspicuous feature; and on the slightest pressure, a pea-like drop of thick, yellow pus starts out from the inner canthus. Ulceration and sloughing of the cornea are equally imminent. The cause of this disease in new-bom infants is the contact of some morbid discharge from the mother, at the time of birth. Possibly, this discharge may be of a gonorrhoeal character; but leucorrhoea would seem to be another source of contagion. Treatment is precisely similar to that of the disease in adults. All antiphlogistic measures must be carefully avoided; a moderate strength of astringent eye-washes, diligently used, with tonics, as a few drops of Battley's liquor cinchonas, and a free suckling of the child, constitute the plan of' treatment whereby destruction of the eye may be pre- vented. (c?.) Gonorrhoeal Ophthalmia is essentially the same in its symptoms as those of ordinary purulent ophthalmia; but it differs in being far more severe and destructive, and in its origin. It is caused by the application of gonorrhoeal matter from the urethra to the eye. Both eyes are often affected, and usually at an interval of a few days ; the eye attacked last generally suffers least. The presence of gonorrhoeal discharge from the penis will throw light on the diagnosis ; and a patient having violent conjunctivitis, but who denies having contracted any urethral discharge, should always be examined. The treatment is substantially that of ordinary purulent ophthalmia, as already directed. But the measures indicated must be even more promptly applied,—more preventive. With every precaution, ulcera- tion frequently happens; still the treatment should be pursued in the hope of retaining a small portion of the cornea transparent, for the purpose of making an artificial pupil eventually and thus preserving even partial vision. This will be a greater boon if both eyes are affected; lest the filming opacity darken into total blindness. (e.) Scrofulous Ophthalmia.—This is essentially a disease of the cornea, the conjunctiva being only secondarily involved. One or more small whitish elevations—phlyctiBnulse, or perhaps pin-head ulcers- beset the cornea, which is otherwise hazy, with a long plexus of vessels running from the corneal margin to tjie morbid spot. This leash of