SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUKGERY. 236 posterior diameter, so that (as shown at n' in Fig. 636) parallel rays of- light are not brought to a focus on the retina, bat at a greater or less distance behind it. If the patient desire to see a remote object, he lias to exert his accommodation; that is to say, he has to contract his 01 lary muscle, which, relaxing the suspensory ligament of the lens, allows the lens to become thicker, and causes parallel rays to be focussed on the retina. But if this be the case with the parallel rays proceeding from distant objects, much more so is it with the diverging rays proceeding from near objects. In order to see a near object, the patient has to exert his accommodation much more powerfully; and the muscular effort required soon gives rise to redness of the conjunctiva, lachrymation, pain, and dimness of vision, the letters of a book running into one another and rendering continuous work impossible. These symptoms are not necessarily associated with hypermetropia. They may exist in an emmetropic eye, if the power of the ciliary muscle has been weakened by general debility. They are not unfrequently seen in those who are exhausted by loss of blood, over-nursing, and fevers, when any attempt is made to work or read. The patient is then said to suffer from " accommodative asthenopia." In some in- stances, not only is there enfeebled accommodation, owing to want of power of the ciliary muscle, but the internal recti muscles are in- sufficiently incurvated; and the symptoms above mentioned are pro- duced as soon as the patient begins to read, because he is unable to maintain the convergence of the eyes requisite to look at near objects. In asthenopia dependent on hypermetropia, the selection of appropriate glasses is imperatively required, and will at once remove the symptoms, enabling the patient to use the eyes on near objects for long periods of time without distress. The point to be determined is to select the strongest pair of glasses, which, when the accommodation of the eyes of the patient is at perfect rest, will bring parallel rays of light to a focus. The fact that hypermetropia is present may in general be rapidly ascertained by placing a convex glass of fifty or forty inches focus before each eye: if the patient sees distant objects better, or even as well with the glass as without, hypermetropia may be safely pronounced to be present. The^ diagnosis may be further verified with the aid of the ophthalmoscope; for, on using the mirror alone, as for the inverted image, but, without the lens, if the patient be told to move the eye to the right or left, the image of the disk or of any retinal vessel appears to the observer to move in the opposite direction; and, again, if the ophthalmoscope be used as for the examination of the erect image, the details of the fundus can be clearly made out with a convex lens, the number of the lens affording an approximative estimate of the glass required by the patient. To determine the glass required with any degree of accuracy, however, it is requisite to paralyze the accommodation of the eye; since, in hypermetropic eyes, the ciliary muscle is always strongly developed, and, being always required, is involuntarily brought intb play when any object, however remote it may be, is attentively observed. The patient should be directed to instil one or two drops of a solution of atropine, containing four grains to the ounce of distilled water, twice in one day and once the following morning. The pupil then becomes widely dilated, the activity of the ciliary muscle, and with it the accommodation of the eye, is abolished, and thei'e is more or loss