SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 750 irritation, or in persons of a scrofulous and debilitated constitution. Balmdtis—an inflammatory afFection of the mucous membrane of the prepuce and glans—is known by a thin, opalescent discharge from this part, often profuse and excoriative. Persons who have a long prepuce are most liable to it; but it is engendered by uncleanliness, hot weather, or disordered health. As the result of swelling of the prepuce and glans, phimosis or paraphimosis is not unfrequently metwith in conjunction with gonorrhoea. Thus, the prepuce cannot be retracted, or not easily, behind the glans, so as to uncover it; or the prepuce cannot be drawn forwards from behind the glans, so as to cover that part of the penis. Various cutaneous eruptions on the prepuce are occasionally concomitants of gonorrhoea. Herpes prtejmtialis appears in the form of small vesicles, containing a thin, opalescent fluid ; and which are disposed in clusters of two, three, or four, upon the internal or external surface of the pre- putial fold. Roseola, pityriasis, and psoriasis sometimes make their appearance ; usually, from six weeks to three months after the com- mencement of gonorrhoeal discharge. A patient having escaped any mishap in the course of gonorrhoea, is yet liable to the consequences of this urethritis. Orchitis, or inflam- mation of the testicle, is not uncommon; commencing as epididymitis, and resulting in a swollen state of the organ. Gonorrhoeal rheumatism, or synovitis, sometimes arises from sudden arrest of the discharge, or after exposure to cold; the metastatic inflammation affecting one or more joints; usually the knee, and often both knees. In some cases the discharge continues. The synovitis is marked by an abundant serous effusion, and the disease terminates without disorganization, in a few weeks. It may, however, proceed to ulceration of the cartilages, and continue for months or a year or two. In one such case, under my care, the knee-joint became firmly-anchylosed. Gonorrhoeal ophthalmia,, an acute purulent inflammation of the conjunctiva, may occur in con- sequence of the accidental application of the urethral discharge to the eye,—an inoculation of gonorrhoeal matter to another mucous mem- brane. This mode of origin does not seem to be always indisputable; for both eyes are often affected, and usually at an interval of a few days, the eye attacked last generally suffering least. Gonorrhoeal sclerotitis, an inflammatory affection of the sclerotic or fibi-ous coat of the eye, may be of a rheumatic character. Occasionally, gonorrhjpa or gleet is followed by prostatorrhma, a chronic inflammation of the prostate gland; characterized by the discharge of a few drops of clear, transparent, or slightly tui'bid viscid mucus, after micturition or any straining effort of defeecation. This fluid is not semen, as it contains no spermatozoa. There is also much irritability about the neck of the bladder, and sensitiveness of the prostatic urethra in passing an instru- ment ; with loss of strength, and mental langour or hypochondriacal lowness of spirits. The treatment of Gonorrhoea varies according to the stage of the disease. During the incipient stage—urethral irritation—it may be possible to prevent the accession of the inflammatory stage, by means of " abor- tive " or " revulsive " treatment, which comprises astringent urethnxl injections, and the specific influence of copaiba or cubebs. But any snch agents, if used for that purpose, are very hazardous, by perchance exciting intense inflammation. So far as opportunity may offer for this practice, I believe it is generally abandoned.