722 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 895. Fig. 896.* The symptoms are those arising from any cause of pain and irritation,. with obstruction to micturition ; and there is also the presence of a foreign body in the bladder. Simulating stone, careful sounding to discover the situation and form of the growth may show distinctive characters. Phosphatic deposit encrusting the growth may, however, still mislead as to its true nature ; but the fixed position, and im- possibility of passing a sound around the tu- mour, free of the blad- der, will aid the question of diagnosis. Yet, the resemblance to an en- cysted calculus is even then, I am sure, suffi- ciently perplexing to perhaps baffle the most careful exploration. This species of growth is most common in chil- dren and young persons. The absence of blood in the urine, or in any notable quantity, distin- guishes warty or polypoid growth from both the remaining species—villous growth and cancer. The treatment is palliative, to allay pain and vesical irritability, with the use of a catheter when necessary. Polypus of the bladder has been re- moved by Aveling's polyptrite (Fig. 895), ligature, or the knife. In one case, Civiale succeeded with a lithotrite; in another, Warner with a ligatare, after dilating the urethra in a female, the tumour being the size of an egg; and in fifteen cases col- lected by Dr. Senftleben, ligature or the knife was used, but in all, except one instance, with fatal results. He, therefore, suggests supra-pubic cys- totomy for the removal of vesical polypus. Villous growth springs also from the mucous and submucous tissues, and consists of cellular ele- ments and large looped capillaries. It presents in the form of innumerable fine villous processes or tufts, which branch off from the base in every direction. (Fig. 896.) Floating in water, this * Eoy Coll Surg. Mus., 2005. Two vascular, tufted, shreddy, and flocculent growths, springing from the mucous membrane of the bladder, near the orifice of the right ureter; and a smaller one from the membrane, an inch above the prostate gland. The larger growths are of a spheroidal form, about three-quarters ot an inch in diameter, and attached by narrow bases; the branching filaments of which they are chiefly composed, and which had a bright-red colour, float freely withm the cavity of the bladder. The patient, a man aged sixty-five, had lead palsy tor sixteen years. About five months before <leath, he was troubled with a constant desire to pass water, micturating every half-hour, and discharging apparently fluid blood Tliis attack continued for a month; and about a fortnight before he died, tne symptoms returned, and proved fatal from exhaustion and mcreased paralytic symptoms. (Sir E. Home.)