INJURIES OF ABDOMINAL PARIETES, AND VISCERA. 457 breasts have been developed, they have ranged in parallel pairs, one above the other on either side of the thorax. Bat an extra breast has been found in the axilla, on the back, on the abdomen, in the groin, or on the outer part of the thigh. These glands, thus oddly situated, have been known to secrete milk. Supernumerary Nipples also some- times occur; two to each natural breast, both nipples communicating with the gland and passing milk. Several extra nipples have been developed on one breast. The male breast is liable to similar developmental anomalies. Thus, I four nipples have been seen. Deficiency of one or both nipples seems to be unknown. THE ABDOMEN. CHAPTER LV. INJURIES OF ABDOMINAL PARIETES, AND VISCERA. Injuries of the Abdomen are of almost equal concern to the Civil and Military Surgeon. Their leading practical distinctions are as follow. Contusion of the Abdominal PARiETES.-r-The extent of structural disorganization produced by contusion varies considerably; the ab- dominal muscles being lacerated possibly, while the skin remains unbroken. The ordinary appearances of Bruise are presented, in most cases, and the usual symptoms of Shock in a greater or less degree. The cause of contusion may be various occasions of external violence—such as a blow or kick, or gunshot injury. Shock may either soon prove fatal or pass ofE; and the bruise may gradually disappear, or be succeeded by abscess, or by peritonitis and thence a fatal termination. After recovery, the abdominal wall sometimes becomes atrophied at the seat of injury, predisposing to the occurrence of ventral hernia. Rupture of the abdominal muscles is sometimes produced in the same way as contusion; or occasionally by violent straining efforts, or the force of tetanic spasm. The treatment has reference to the recovery from Shock, by a moderate administration of stimulants; followed by the ordinary topical applications to a bruised part, coupled with rest. The contin- gencies, inflammation and its consequences, or hernia, occurring with or consequent on the abdominal contusion, must be treated in accord- ance with these conditions. Wounds of the Abdominal Parietes differ in no particular from the same injuries elsewhere, ?\nd the treatment must be conducted on ordinary principles. Thus, in Military practice, the Surgeon may have to deal with wounds from a sword-cut, or a bayonet-thrust,—not penetrating the abdomen. Ounshoi wound, limited to the abdominal