SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 772 municatoR a rough or grating sensation, while it can be easily with- drawn ; all these peculiarities being more notable when occurring after the instrument had been folt to be held or grasped by the stricture. The patient experiences sudden and severe pain, and is often conscious that something has given way ; on withdrawing the instrument, it is found besmeared with blood, and there will be free haemorrhage from the -urethra, with perhaps, as I have noticed, some degree of turgid priapism. But an old false passage, with consolidated walls, will communicate the same sensation as if the instrument were passing through a stricture, and is unattended with pain or hgemorrhage; the only obvious sign, perhaps, being some deviation from the natural direction in the course of the urethra. To avoid accidentally dilating a false passage, instead of the urethra, it has been proposed to pre-occupy that passage with a fine probe-pointed whalebone bougie, before using the urethral bougie; a practice chiefly in vogue among continental Surgeons. Thus, one of the fine bougies is slid along the urethra, and if it slip into a false passage, it is left there; a second and a third such passage may perchance be pre-occupied in like manner; then, the urethral bougie can be thus guided almost with certainty into and through the stric- ture. This resource would seem to be suitable only in the dilatation of a tight stricture, and when the false passages are not more in number than for the urethral canal to accommodate the fine bougies as well as the dilating instrument; and in thus taking possession of existing false passages, care must be taken not to make fresh ones Hasmorrhage must be regarded as another accident attending catheterism; "but it is also liable to occur independently of any urethral lesion, from the mere passage of an instrument, in inflam- matory stricture. Inflammation affecting the urethra or testes may be induced^ by dilatation; especially with instruments of too large a size, or rapidly increased. Other evil concomitants, or consequences, have already been alluded to; pain in micturition, rigors, faintness, sickness. Gradual dilatation having proved ineffective for the cure of stric- ture, other methods of treatment must be resorted to ; and they are especially applicable, when either the sensitive state of the stricture or its contractile and recurring tendency would render that mode of treatment inapplicable, as being intolerable or unsuccessful. The degree of tigJitness of the stricture and the amount of induration, together representing an undilatable state of stricture, will be found to determine the particular mode of treatment then to be adopted— whether Forcible Dilatation or Eupture, or Division by incision, in- ternally or externally. Immediate and Foecible Dilatation, or Rupture.—In estimating the applicability and advantage of this method of treatment for stric- ture of the urethra, it would certainly appear that the vital character and constitutional relations of the urethral tube should forbid any dilatation of an immediate and forcible character; and still more so any rupture of its component tissues. Yet experience has now shown that not only may this mode of treatment be practised with impunity; but that a tight stricture, undilatable gradually beyond a certain deo-ree, and any further distension of which would excite severe con-