SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 282 little Oiled lint; and wrapped in cotton wool to maintain the circula- tion. The edges of the wound in the forehead, corresponding to the peduncle, may be united with a suture; the rest of the surface heal- ing by granulation, water-dressing should be applied. In a few days the nose will have become plump and purplish red; but, this subsiding, union takes place and the organ becomes con' solidated. Then, after about three months, the twisted strip of skin may be cut through, and adjusted evenly. To avoid a pucker, it may be necessary to excise a small portion. The coUim7ia nasi is best restored by forming it out of the npper lip, as recommended by Mr. Listen, who practised this procedure with great success. First, the inner surface of the apex is pared. Then, a perpendicular strip is cut out of the centre of the upper lip, a quarter of an inch in breadth, and consisting of the whole thickness of the lip. The freenulum having been divided by a touch with the bistoury, this strip of the lip is turned, not twisted up; the labial margin is thinly pared, and the raw surface adapted to that of the apex; the two are retained with a twisted suture, and the edges of the lip-wound brought together by two more such sutures. If troublesome bleeding occur from the coronary artery, one of these sutures should be so placed that the needle shall transfix the ends of the vessel. During the process of complete restoration, the nostrils must be dilated occasionally, by introducing silver tubes up these passages. The exposed mucous membrane of the raised strip of lip acquires a cuta- neous character, while the interior of the nose resembles a mucous membrane and is moistened with a mucous secretion. Patients, who had previously been snuff-takers, have enjoyed a pinch of snuff, appa- rently with as much gusto as the oldest and most experienced nose could possibly have imparted. But even should our constructions fail in enabling a patient to resume a nasty habit, a nose is stiU a nose, "although there's nothing in't." Certain exceptional conditions may be met by different plastic opera- tions. When the alge and septum are wanting, but the nasal bones remain, the procedure devised by Mr. Francis Mason may sometimes be adopted with advantage. It consists in forming two small lateral flaps, of square shape. A, from the integuments of the cheeks, and one small upper flap, nearly semicular, B, from over the root of the nose (Fig. 668); these flaps are brought across the nasal gap, as a base of support for the frontal flap. In making the lateral flaps, the margins of the nasal gap are left; and the flaps are taken from sound tissues, about three-quarters of an inch away from the margins of the gap. Having dissected up these portions of integument, from without inwards to their bases of attachment, they are reflected so that the skin-surface is laid towards the nostrils, and united in the middle line by sutures. The aperture remaining above is then closed by the upper flap, reversed with the skin-surface downwards, upon the lateral flaps. The incisions should be so placed, as to avoid, if possible, the angular branch of the facial artery, for the nourishment of the frontal flap. This portion of integument can be brought down at once, or by an after operation. ^ When the nasal bones are wanting, and the gap is of larger size, Mr. John Wood's operation offers a suitable recompense. It consists