677 LITHOTOMY. Lithotomy, or tlie operation of cutting for Stone in the Bladder, has been performed in various ways; both, as with regard to the seat of operation and the method of its performance. There are three situa- tions in which the bladder may be entered : in the perineum, the supra-pubic or hypogastric region, and through the rectum ; thus indi- cating three principal operations of lithotomy—perineal lithotomy, the supra-pubic or higli operation, and the recto-vesical operation. Peri- neal lithotomy comprises/ow varieties : (1) the ordinary lateral opera- tion of Cheselden, and as modified in detail by Key, Listen, and other modern lithotomists ; (2) the median or Marian operation, revived by Vacca, and as modified by Civiale, Buchanan, and established in modern Surgery by AUerton; (3) the bilateral or transverse operation of Dupuytren; (4) the quadrilateral section of the prostate by Vidal de Cassis. No branch of Surgery possesses a history more interesting, curious and romantic, than that of lithotomy, and its comparatively recent substitute—lithotrity; and nowhere is the temptation so alluring to an author in love with his Profession, to trace _ the _ gradual_ develop- ment of surgical principles and their application in practice. Nor would such a history be out of place in a work embracing the Scieiioe conjoined with the Practice of Surgery. But the necessary allotment of space forbids that which would be a somewhat lengthened diversion. Preparation of the Patient for Lithotomy—Some Surgeons, as Key and William Coulson, have paid great attention to the state of the patient's constitutional health preparatory to operation ^ other Sur- geons of equal eminence, as Listen, have not deemed it necessary to delay the operation by much preparation. The nervous system being tranquil, or subdued by an occasional opiate, the skin acting freely, and the urinary secretion having been corrected as far as pos- sible iDy alkalies or acids, according to the character of the calculus, the bowels should be well relieved by mild purgatives, and the rectum especially must be emptied by an enema of castor oil and gruel on the morning of the operation. On no account should the operation be performed until the enema has come away, the loaded state of the bowel much increasing the liability of wounding this part. Instruments.—Certain arrangements, which although simple, are indispensable to the safe performance of lithotomy. A firm, even operating table, lightly covered with a doubled blanket so as not to present any thickness into which the buttocks might sink unevenly ; a piece of waterproof covering being placed over the blanket, of sufficient length to hang down over the end of the table. Pillows are requisite to support the back. A firm stool is the most convenient seat, and it must be of such height, relative to the table, that the patient's buttocks shall be level with the operator's breast when he sits down. This ad- justment is easily made by experience. A small low table or a large chair should be provided, on which the instruments are laid out; and placed to the right of the operator, so that he can readily help himself during the operation, independently of any assistant for this purpose. The appliances and instruments requisite are — a pair of bandages of coarse flannel, each about three yards long and two inches in width, or leathern couplets may be preferable; two lithotomy-knives or scalpels, namely, a sharp-pointed, straight-backed knife, and a blunt, button- pointed knife, somewhat curved backwards towards the end; a staff,