656 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. The odour of a recently extracted calculus is sometimes peculiar. Phos- phatic calculus may be ammoniacal, and oxalate of lime, on section, is said to emit a faint odour of semen. An aromatic smell, as of castor or musk, is sometimes perceptible. The consistence varies from that of mortar or sand to that of granite. But this will depend on the chemical nature of the calculus and on the intermixture of organic matter, or moisture in a recently extracted stone. Phosphatic calculus is generally soft; the uric acid hard; and the oxalates very hard. The crust is usually softer than the interior, and the nucleus has tlie densest consistence. A rapidly formed stone is softer than one of slow production. Structure.—On section, a calculus generally presents a nucleus, and the surrounding concretion, which has a more or less distinct external crust. The colour and consistence of the section may be uniform, when the stone consists of only one chemical constituent,—forming a simple calculus; or it varies in appearance at different depths, when consisting of diiferent elements,—forming a compound calculus. The disposition of the concrete matter may be continuous,—presenting no visible arrangement; but usually it is deposited in concentric layers or lamina, and sometimes lines radiate from the centre to the circum-- ference of the stone. Varnishing the dried surface will exhibit its appearance most distinctly. This laminated arrangement corresponds apparently to the successively active periods of urinary deposit. Such is Prout's explanation ; and it would seem, therefore, that a continuous concretion must be due to an uninterrupted deposit. Lamination may occur in the formation of both a simple and a compound calculus. It depends apparently on varying states of tlie urine. When some length of period intervenes in the deposition of matter, the surface of the concretion becomes water-worn, and worm-eaten; fresh deposition is less firmly adherent, and consequently a calculus thus constructed is disposed, when broken, to split into its concentric laminse. In com- pound calculus, the successive deposition of diiferent matter may be in a regular alternation. The nucleus is situated usually in or near the centre of the calculus; sometimes it is very eccentric, as in some renal calculi. Occasionally, more than one, or possibly several nuclei, may be found, as distinct centres of concentric deposition. More rarely, the nucleus is loose within the substance of the calculus; owing apparently to a layer of blood or mucus having gathered around the nucleus, and then the concretion taking place on this layer. When the organic matter dries and pulverizes, the nucleus is left loose in the stone. Lastly, the nucleus may have disappeared, leaving a central cavity; a result probably of the nucleus itself having been blood or mucus, which has undergone disintegration. The differential physical characters of the various species of Urinary Calculi are indicated in the following tabular view, which presents a useful analysis of the description given with regard to the different species of Calculi, severally. The student will thus learn to recognize more clearly the most essential distinctive appearances, as well as the individual characteristics, of each form of Calculus.