304 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. from tlie one situation; and Sir James Paget removed another oval and bilobed tumour, also from the substance of the tongue, near the apex, where it had been growing for three years. In the Museum of the Middlesex Hospital there is a fatty tumour, one and a half inches long, which was removed from beneath the tongue, where it looked like a ranula ; and a lobulated tumour was removed from the same situation by Mr. Liston. (4.) Growths of other kinds maybe mentioned as of even more rare occurrence. The fihro-cellular and fibrous tumours have, each, been removed from the tongue by Sir James Paget. Enchondroma was found in a case recorded by Professor Gross. Keloid growth occurred in another case which Mr. Sedgwick narrates, the disease being associated with indurated, raised patches of the same kind on the face, chest, and other parts, in the person of a girl four years and a half old. Tumours, more or less embedded in the substance of the tongue, haying a well-defined boundary, may thus be distinguished^ from swellings arising from syphihtic or scrofulous deposits. Folyfi, and warts, of a pedunculated form, and presenting the usual appearances of these out- growths respectively, are also occasional productions. These various species of growths admit of removal by excision, or the polypoid may be strangled by ligature. (5.) Banula is a semi-transparent, bluish-white, fluctuatmg, cyst- like, swelling ; situated under the tongue, to one side of the frajnum, corresponding to the position of the submaxillary gland. The swelhng is attributed to a dilatation of the duct—Whartonian duct—of this gland, which presents a cystif orm enlargement. (Fig. 682.) In one case, under the care of Sir W. Lawrence, the little finger could be inserted for a short distance into a cylindrical tube, pursuing the normal course towards the gland ; and in another instance Mr. Holmes Coote removed a phosphatic concretion, about the size of a pea, from Wharton's duct. The incipient swelling disappeared in a few days, thus mdicatmg the probable mode of origin of ordinary ranula. Gysts may form, in the same situation, from, perhaps, fonr sources— (1) dilatation of Wharton's duct; (2) dilata- Fig. 682. tion of one of the sublingual ducts; (3) enlargement of a mucous f oUicle: (4) en- largement of a bursa mucosa, said to exist on the outer surface of the genio-hyoglossus muscle. The same symptoms arise from any such swelling; the tongue is pushed upwards and backwards, or sideways, thus interrupt- ing speech and deglutition, as ordinary ranula attains the size of a marble or a chestnut. An enlarged bursa presents an elastic swelling more under the side of the jaw, and which attains to a larger size, that of an orange or larger. The contente of these cystic swellings differ: a dilated Whartonian duct or an ordinary ranula contains a clear, glairy fluid, like white of c is .ffcr with, perhaps, phosphatic concretion ; an enlarged mucous iollicie s^fiuld with a putty-liko matter, consisting of epithehal scales with