177 TRAUMATIC INFLAMMATION OF THE BRAIN. Chrome Traumatic Encephalitis may be distinguislied from the acute form of this inflammation, by the insidious development of the symptoms, their less pronounced character, and longer duration. Com- • mencing at variable periods after the head-injury,—within a few days, - some weeks, or months—the effects of that injury may have seemingly passed off; whether it was concussion of the brain, or contusion of the • skull. Commonly, however, some subdued symptoms _ of cerebral t disturbance remain, continuous from the time of the injury. Oc- , casional headache, of a dull, heavy character, is experienced, with I perhaps giddiness, and loss of memory, or some impairment of vision ! or of hearing ; while the patient becomes pale and dispirited, languid ■ and irritable. He looks very ill. Perhaps an epileptic seizure marks ' the accession of more positive symptoms. Then the attack is similar to that of acute encephalitis; but the stage of delirious excitement is ■ not so violent,—a muttering delirium, with some pain and heat of ■ head, contraction or dilatation of the pupils, or one pupil may be , contracted and the other dilated, intolerance of light and sound; these symptoms being succeeded by moaning or screaming, with spasmodic twitchings of the face and Hmbs, as the patient sinks into a comatose state,—in the stage of compression, resulting from the effusion of serum, lymph, or pus, chiefly within the arachnoid membrane of the brain. But subacute traumatic encephalitis is not invariably fatal, nor always in this way. The patient may live on, subject to the recurrence of symptoms from any occasional cerebral excitement, and unfitted, therefore, for the business or pleasures of life; losing yet more gradually his mental and physical powers, he becomes a paralytic cripple, until worn out, as a wreck, he dies exhausted. This sad state of vegetating existence will be noticed more particularly in connection with Spinal Meningitis and Myelitis, as the result of concussion of the cord, involving the brain. The treatment of chronic intra-cranial inflammation will consist of the same measures which are appropriate with reference to the acute condition of this disease; but they should be adapted to the subacute character of the symptoms; and the treatment directed rather with the view of preventing their development, than in the hope of re- moving the products of old-standing arachnitis, or the other structural consequences of inflammation, meningeal or cerebral. Compression of the brain, indicated by coma, and as depending on suppuration, maj justify recourse to the operation of trephining. But under what circumstances ? Rigors are the surest constitutional sign of suppuration, in connection with any head-injury. Then with coma, and especially with hemiplegia, the only question is the situation of the matter. Scalp-wound injury, or contusion of the bone, with perhaps a puffy tumour, will generally indicate the spot. The matter may be located between the bone and dura mater; or also beneath this men- brane, although very rarely circumscribed within the cavity of the arachnoid,—the dura mater then bulging up tensely into the trephine- aperture, and not presenting any pulsation. An incision must be made and the matter let out. The operation will, therefore, be effectual in these two exceptional conditions—(1) for the evacuation of matter beneaththe cranium alone; (2) or associated with its circumscribed formation beneath the dura mater, in the cavity of the arachnoid. TOL. II. N