DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. 299 the htemorrliage was moderate, and soon repressed with matico powder. The oTOWth returned within a week, yet the man was still alive thirteen years after the operation. epithelial cancer appears almost as often on the tongue as on the lower lip. It presents an opaque white raised patch, consisting of ipatted epithehal- scales, which becoming detached at length exhibits an ulcer of irregular surface, with hard everted edges produced by epithelial infiltration aroimd the ulcer. (See Pig. 679.) Coexisting with such a patch or nicer on the dorsum of the tongue, I have seen two or more buttons on the hard and soft palate. Considerable pain may be experienced, but the functional inconvenience will depend on the situation and extent of the part affected. The submaxillary glands sometimes remain unaffected. The disease progresses slowly, in one case existing twelve years, in another sixteen years ; a far longer period of duration than in other forms of cancer-growth. Cancer of the tongue is a primary disease, with rare exceptions. Some predisposition seems to be conferred by age and sex, with regard to epithelial cancer. In thirty cases tabulated for Sir James Paget by Mr. Morrant Baker, the disease occurred more often in middle and advanced life; and a similar relation appears from thirty- nine cases collected by Mr. Pairlie Clark. Extreme ages have been noticed; twelve years only, in a case by Listen ; ninety years in one of Paget's cases. The disease is far more common in males than females. Thus, in the former series of cases, nineteen were men, and eleven women; and in the latter series, twenty-eight were men, and eleven women. The duration of cancer of the tongue is an important factor in its bearing on the question of operation. Of the thirty-nine cases referred to, the average duration was fifty-seven weeks; the shortest period having been fourteen weeks, and the longest beyond six: years. Treatment.—Any cancerous disease of the tongue mnst be extirpated by surgical operation; no known medicinal treatment having any curative effect. The extirpation should be carried freely around the cancerous infiltration, to lessen the probability of the disease re- curring. Excision may be either partial, or complete removal of the whole tongue. The former procedure is appropriate and practicable when the disease is limited to the tip or anterior portion of the organ; the latter operation becomes absolutely imperative, as the only chance of safety, when the disease is more extensive. These operations of excision may be done with the knife, or by means of the ecraseur or the galvanic wire-cautery. The two latter methods of removal are preferable, for the avoidance of htemorrhage; and the galvanic cautery is more especially advantageous, as being equally effectual, and far more speedy in its operation; but the wire must be applied at a dull red heat, otherwise the bleeding will be no less free than if a knife were used. Strong curved pins are transfixed through the tongue, to guide the 6craseur or wire in its course around the part to be removed, or through the base of the organ for complete excision. Partial excision is easily performed. If the knife be used, chloro- form should not be administered, lest with the hEemorrhage, which is often very free, blood should trickle backwards into the larynx and occasion convulsive coughing. The patient being seated in a chair.