FRACTURES OF THE VAULT OF THE SKULL. 153 nnit fracture, while the unyielding texture of the inner or vitreous teble breaks abruptly. But the results of Mr Teevan's experinaents f,v artificially producing fractures of the skull, m the dead sub]ect seem to conclusively disprove both these explanations For when direct violence is applied to the inner surface of the skull, to the plate of bone allecred to be most liable to fracture, the outer table can thus be broken, without any fracture of the inner. In a case of suicide, by firing a Distol into the mouth, the frontal bone received this form of injury ; there was only a black mark produced where the ball struck the mside of this bone, while the outer table sustained a starred^fissured fracture. This notable specimen is in the Museum of Guy's Hospital; and Mr. Teevan fairly adduces it as an instance of accidental injury corrobo- ratino- his experiments. It would appear that, in the ordinary apphcation of direct violence to the outside of the skull, the external table is com- pressed, and the inner plate stretched, at that spot; so that fracture takes place just as when a stick is bent across the knee the fibres yielding first, not on the aspect of compression, but on the side ot extension. ■■ n .i In mmctured or penetrating fractures of the skull, the injury may be caused by a sharp-pointed instrument, as a spike or bayonet, or by a bullet in gunshot wound. The relatively greater size of the aper- ture of exit—in either table of the skull, as the case may be—is an important fact; whether from a surgical point of view, or with refer- ence to medico-legal inquiry. This peculiarity has been explained in two ways. It has been urged that, in a penetrating fractare of the skull, the proximal plate of bone suffers less, owing to the support afforded by the distal plate; and thence the larger size of the aperture in this plate. But Mr. Teevan's numerous experiments, respecting this question also, tend to a different conclusion; that while the aperture of entry is produced by the penetrating body only, the aperture of exit, in the distal plate, is made larger by the additional bulk of the fragments of bone driven in from the proximal table and diploe. Consequently, the distal aperture was found to be larger,— whether on the inner or the outer surface of the skull, according to the application of the force on either surface ; the table last struck, or to which the force reaches secondarily, is invariably most widely fractured. When, therefore, the apparent support of the distal table was removed, by excising any portion of the bone on that surface of the skull, a bullet fired through the single plate produced, still, only a small, clean aperture. The accompanying lesions of fracture in the vault of the skull are various. In addition to wound of the scalp, occipito-frontalis muscle, and pericranium or periosteum, extravasation of blood may take place beneath either of these integuments—parts external to the vault of the cranium. Thus, extra-cranial extravasation is found in one, or more, of three situations : between the scalp and the tendon of the occipito-frontalis muscle, between that muscle and the pericranium, or between that membrane and the bone. The shull, hrain, and its mem- hranes, may be severally and similarly involved, as extensions of the fracture-injury to the contents of the cranial cavity. These effects are produced, principally, by depressed fracture. They are separation of the dura mater from the interior of the cranium, wound of this membrane, of the arachnoid, pia mater, and laceration of the brain;