SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE BLADDER, PROSTATE GLAND, ETC. 613 the membranous urethra, tlie canal narrows again to rather less than behind. It is the widest and most dilatable portion of the whole urethral canal, although least extensible at the neck of the bladder. The mucous membrane of the prostatic urethra presents slight lono-i- tudinal folds, in a collapsed state of the passage ; but a median ridgo- of mucous membrane and thickened submucous tissue projects in the' floor of the urethra; extending from just in front of the little elevation uvula vesicae—at the vesical orifice, and, gradually rising to a peak, it subsides rather abruptly towards the membranous urethra. This rido-e is about three-quarters of an inch in length, but only a line and a half in depth, at its highest point. It is variously named; the crest of the urethra, or crista urethrce; more commonly, capiot galUnaginis, and' verii montanum. On either side lies a depressed portion of the canal, the prostatic sinus, in the form of a longitudinal groove, and somewhat deeper behind at the vesicle orifice; the floor of either sinus is beset with numerous small apertures, the openings of the prostatic ducts from the lateral lobes, while those of the middle lobe open behind the central crest. In the crest, just in front of its peak, a small recess or cul-de-sac passes downwards and backwards between the lateral lobes, and beneath the middle lobe ; at its orifice in the urethra, this cul-de-sao is about a line in width, but it enlarges to double that size at its fundus, a depth of about a quarter of an inch. This recess in the central crest is usually named the simts pocularis; also the vesica prostatica, or the utricle, as being probably the analogue of the uterus in the female. It receives the two common ejaculatory ducts, which open by two narrow slit-like apertures upon ar within the margins of the cid-de-sac, one on either side, or sometimes at the- bottom of the fundus. Numerous small glands also open within this recess; and the crest has been found to contain erectile tissue, whereby, perhaps^ when distended with blood, this central eminence may prevent any retroversion of semen into the bladder. The membranous urethra reaches from the apex of the prostate to the bulb of the corpus spongiosum. It passes through the double membranous layer of the triangular ligament in the pubic arch, about an mch below the symphysis (Pig. 854), but this portion of the urethra extends backwards for about a line behind the ligament, to the apex of the prostate, and forwards, a little in front, to the bulb. Having a curved direction upwards, the greatest length of the membranous urethra measures not more than three-quarters of an inch in the convavity; the convexity is even less, being overlaid by the bulb in front; and its diameter is less than that of any other portion of the urethra The tube here lies over the end of the rectum, but separated by a cellular interval, where the bowel turns downwards; above, the dorsal vessels and nerve of the penis penetrate the triangular liga- ment; between the two layers of this ligament, the membranous urethra is embraced by the compressor urethrcs muscle, consistino- of two layers of transverse muscular fibres, one above and one below the tube, attached to the ramus of the pubes on either side, and some circular muscular fibres surround this part of the urethra. Just beneath, and under cover of the lower band of fibres, are situated U)wpers glands ; two little bodies, like peas, of a yellow colour, one on either side._ Above, lie the arteries of the bulb, one on either side,— about half an inch above the base of the ligament.