SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. or '' Clergyman's sore throat." The diseased glands become distended by inspissated and unhealthy secretion, so as to form rounded Jranut« which are usually most numerous on the posterior wall of the |hZnx of TirT '^^^^^;«kened secretion exudes from the minute orifices of the glands, and forms small white prominences, presenting a ver! characteristic appearance. Troublesome throat-irritation is of ten presenf The treatment of this affection is to improve the generalTealth which IS usually debilitated, and to destroy the diseased glands by a strong caustic. In mild cases the solid stick of nitrate of silver pressed against the granules or into the glandule may be effective, but in most instances the London paste will have to be used, in the manner described under the treatment of enlarged tonsils. Two or three granules may be destroyed every other day, but if applied too fre- quently the paste causes excessive inflammation. Post^Pharyngeal Abscess occasionally forms in the ceUalar texture behind the pharynx, as an idiopathic disease in children; more rarely It results from caries of the cervical vertebrae, or from the impaction of a foreign body. ^ The symptoms are difficulty of deglutition, and perhaps dyspnoea owing to pressure on the larynx ; or nasal intonation, if the posterior nares be occluded. On examining the interior of the pharynx a tense fluctuating swelling may be seen and felt. This must not be mistaken for a polypoid or other solid growth of the walls or cavity of the pharynx. Pharyngeal abscess may burst into the mouth, or extend downwards under the sterno-mastoid muscles and present in front of the neck. The treatment consists in evacuation of the matter by a well-timed puncture with a sharp-pointed, protected bistoury at the most depen- dent part of the abscess. The pus discharged has an offensive smell not unlike that of a rectal abscess. ' Ulceration of the pharynx is usually a manifestation of Syphilis or Scrofula; as such it forms part of the general pathology of these diseases, and the treatment will be found in the chapters relatino- thereto. A pharyngeal phthisis, pathologically similar to the same disease as it affects the larynx or lungs, has recently been described by Isambert of Paris, and Frankel of Berlin. The deposit of tubercle which gives rise to this malady sometimes occurs primarily in the pharynx, but most frequently it is coincident or posterior in date to pulmonary consumption. Considerable ulceration is often present, and is diagnosed with difficulty from syphilis, unless close attention be paid to the constitutional condition. Tumours.—Fibro-cellular, fibrous, and fatty tumours of the pharynx are occasionally met with; giving rise to the symptoms of abscess —difficult deglutition, and perchance impeded respiration, with a svs^elling in the pharynx, and perhaps in the neck. The characters of this swelling and its antecedent history will be the grounds of diag- nosis. Practically, the particular kind of growth is less important than the size, shape, position, and attachment of the tumour. The pedunculated character generally prevails, in pharyngeal tumours. Ef ithelial cancer is sometimes met with, in the usual flattened patches of this form of malignant growth. The treatment of any pharyngeal tumour consists in early removal by operation—a proceeding necessarily restricted to the pendulous form