URINARY DEPOSITS. 645 sntrar, and let fall, slowly, three drops of concentrated sulphuric acidi int<) the mixture. The resinous acid is at first precipitated; but afterwards, the flakes adhering to the glass are slowly dissolved by addino- more sulphuric acid, and there appears an entirely clear fluid, of a beautiful darh violet colour (Virchow's "Archiv," vol. xiii.; " Archives of Med.," vol. i.). This test results from an elaborate pro- cess, but it is a very delicate and infallible one. . The following useful tables are from Dr. Golding Bird's work; * they contain reference to some deposits not hitherto described in this, work, but which are here incidentally introduced :— (1.) Table for the Microscopical Examination of Urinary Deposits, f Deposit amorphous, and disappears on the addition of liquor potassse. Urates. „ and permanent on the addition of liquor potassae.. " Phosphate of lime. „ visibly crystalline, and the crystals octohedral X • Oxalate of lime. „ „ and the crystals hexagonal tables, soluble in ammonia . . . • Cystine. „ „ and the crystals prismatic or penniform, not soluble in ammonia, but in acetic acid . . Neutral triple phosphate. ,^ and the crystals radiated or foliaceous, not soluble in ammonia, but in acetic acid,, with effervescence . Carbonate of lime.. „ „ „ and the crystals radiated or foliaceous, not soluble in ammonia, but in acetic acid, without effervescence . Bibascic triple phosphate. §' „ „ „ and the crystals dumb-bells, not soluble in ammonia, but in acetic acid, with effer- vescence . . Carbonate of lime. „ „ „ and the crystals dumb-bells, soluble by heat, but not in ammonia, nor acetic acid. Lithate of soda. „ „ „ and the crystals dumb-bells, insoluble by heat, ammonia, and acetic acid. Oxalurate of lime. §' „ „ „ and the crystals dumb-bells, with fringed edges, insoluble in alcohol and acetic acid, but soluble in liquor potasssB. Lithic acid. * " Urinary Deposits," etc. Edited by Dr. Birkett. t The sediment may be organized; consisting of mucus, pus, epithelial cells from the genito-urinary passages, semen, blood, casts of ui-iniferous tubes, various other cells, and cUbris of tissue; or stringy, coagulable by acetic acid, and consisting of a tonacioTis matrix with cells, some small and round, others large and fiat, with oval nuclei,—it is mucus; or consisting of spherical globules, not imbedded in a matrix, about -pgL_ of an inch in diameter, studded with molecules and granules, and con- taining a double or triple mucus on the addition of acetic acid,—it is pus. t Arsenious acid, chloride of sodium, and the protoxide of antimony, assume tha octohedral form, but are rarely present. § Is not yet proved to exist in urine. (Thudichum.)