ODONTOMES.—DISEASES OF COMPLETED TEETH. 313 Fig. 688. Fig. 689. germ, and enamel cells still eai-lier; moreover, tliough these cells exist, it does not follow that they would calcify. M. Robin's famous case, in which a tumour of fibrous structure bore upon it many papilla, insignificant in size, which carried little dentine caps, is but on6 step removed from a fibrous tumour with no characteristic dental structures in it. '■'■Odontoblastic" Odontomes.—These may, perhaps, sometimes be fibrous tumours, with nothing to point to their dental origin save their position; or they may be irregular calcified masses, varying from the size of a pea to that of a hen's egg (Forget's case), made up of a chaotic assemblage of dental structures. They may for years remain in the mouth, and even become worn down by mastication; ultimately, however, they generally set up sufficient irritation to necessitate their removal, if they are not ejected by suppuration around their imbedded portions. A remarkable calcified tumour (Fig. 688), which has invaded and embraced the root of a lower molar, may perhaps be an odontoplastic odontome; unfortunately, no history is obtainable with this unique specimen, which was lent to me by Dr. Barrett, of Buffalo. The accompanying figure (Fig. 689) represents a section of a coronary odontome. An exami- nation of this specimen suggests that a globular new growth had formed in the interior of the formative pulp, inside the membrana eboi-is, which in its growth it had first thrust before it, and afterwards burst through, remaining how- ever inside the tooth- capsule, from which it, in common vsdth the rest of the tooth, has received an investment of cementum. This, as well as an enormous odontome attached to a horse's molar (in the Odontological Society's Museum), is much worn by mastication, so that it evidently long remained without causing irritation. In a specimen lately shown me by Mr. Moon—which will be described in Guy's Hospital Reports—there is also a deeply worn facet, though it was ultimately removed on account of suppuration and much inflammation about it. In Bryant's " Surgery," 2nd ed., p. 516, there is figured a remarkable exaniple of dilatation of a root, the crown of the tooth remaining normal. Diseases incident to Completed Teeth. Dental Caries and its Consequences.—By far the most frequent cause of pam and ultimate loss of the teeth is caries, a disease of which the exact cause is still unknown to us. Amongst rude uncivilized races it IS, and always was, almost unknown; amongst civilized people even living m the same climate, it was always prevalent, as is instanced by ihG Ancient Britons and the Romans in England. And though it has