SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 618 Nerves are supplied to the penis, corresponding to the arteries. They are derived from the pudic nerve, a branch of the sacral plexus of spinal nerves; and from the lyrostatic, plexus, an offset of the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic. Thus, from the fudic nerve (Fig. 857) proceeds the dorsal nerve, distributed to the glans, but also supplying a large branch to the corpus cavemosum on each side, and integumental branches to the prepuce, dorsum, and sides of the penis. The two superficial perineal nerves, from the perineal branch of the pudic nerves, supply the under surface of the penis; and from the same source also are derived muscular branches to the accelerator urinro, and to the erector penis, as well as a branch to the transverse muscle of the perineum. The pudic nerve likewise gives off the nerve of the bulb, which is distributed to the corpus spongiosum, around the urethra. But the prostatic plexus of the sympathetic nerve supplies an offset to the corpora cavernosa, some cavernous filaments also penetrating the corpus spongiosum ; and these cavernous nerves communicate with the dorsal nerve of the pudic. Female Urethra.—In the female, the urethral canal is shorter, wider, and straighter than in the male. Averaging in length only one inch and a half, its diameter is a quarter of an inch or more, but enlarged and funnel-shaped adjoining the neck of the bladder, narrowed at the external orifice, with a Fig. 858.* dilatation in the floor of the ure- thra near the meatus. The course of this canal is nearly straight, having a slight curve below the symphysis pubis, the concavity looking upwai'ds. Lying in the middle line, the urethra passes from the bladder through the triangular ligament, in the pubic arch, to the external orifice ; but, throughout its course, the tube is imbedded in the texture of the upper or an- terior wall of the vagina, the compressor urethrse muscle em- braces it in the arch of the pubes, between the two layers of the tri- angular ligament, and behind this structure the anterior ligament of the bladder overlies the vesical portion of the tube. Owing, however, to the comparative absence of unyielding structures around the urethral tube, it ad- mits of dilatation much more readily than the male urethra. The external orifice, or meatus ririnarius^ is a small, round opening, set in an elevation; it is situated within the * External genitals, in Female. 1. External labia. 2. Internal labia or nympbse. 3. Clitoris. 4. Meatus urinarius. 5. Opening of vagina. 6. Hymen. 7. Fourchette. 8. Vestibule. 9. Mons veneris. 10. Perineum. 11. Anus. (From A. Jamain.)