370 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. relief may be afforded by the direct application of astringent solutions to the dilated portion of the gullet. In order to effect this purpose a hollow bougie, made of flexible metal, and perforated at one end with a few small holes, should be passed down to the dilated part of the oesophagus. A solution of perchloride of iron or nitrate of silver etc can then be injected by the aid of a small india-rubber syringe the nozzle of which fits the end of the tubular bougie. ' Larynx and Trachea.—Laryngitis.—In&a,ramation of the larynx is attended with more or less dyspnoea and aphonia, and generally with difficulty of deglutition, the severity of the symptoms being propor- tionate to the effusion and swelling. Ordinary acute laryngitis prin- cipally affects ^ the mucous membrane of the larynx—the oedematmis variety attacking the submucous cellular tissue. Ghi 'onic laryngitis, resulting in thickening of the mucous mem- brane of the glottis, is attended, more particularly, with aphonia or various modifications of the voice—such as hoarseness, squeaking or broken voice, and with tickling, spasmodic cough. This form of the disease is commonly met with among clergymen, vocalists, public singers, and others, who are accustomed to use their voice to excess— often when catarrh exists. Consequences.—The usual consequences of inflammation may follow laryngitis : abscess, sloughing and ulceration of the mucous mem- brane, perichondritis, and occasionally caries, etc., may supervene. Diagnosis.—Visual examination of the upper portion of the respira- tory tract can be made directly, by seating the patient opposite a good, clear white light, depressing the root of the tongue with a spatula, and requesting the patient to draw a deep breath. The laryngoscope supplies the means of completely exploring the larynx. Its applica- tion will be explained in connection with the treatment of laryngeal growths. Spasm of the glottis gives rise to great dyspnoea; and, if prompt relief be not at hand, death will often ensue. This affection is very common in children of rachitic diathesis, and is known as laryngis- mus stridulus, pseudo-croup, or spasmodic croup. It is due to reflex irritation, such as teething or intestinal disease. In adults, it may occasionally occur with laryngitis, or it may be due to irritation of, or pressure on, the larygneal nerves by an aneurism or tumour. In females of an hysterical disposition spasm of the larynx is also met with. Tumours.—Polypi, fibro-cellular, and fibro-plastic or epithelial growths, varying iu size from that of a millet seed to a hazel-nut, may be attached to the vocal cords, the epiglottis, or to the mucous mem- brane within the larynx or trachea. Adenoid or glandular growths, vascular growths, cystic tumours, lipomata, and myxomata are also occasionally met with in the larynx. The symptoms of such growths are—hoarseness or some other modification of the voice, perhaps aphonia, and sometimes a tickling, spasmodic cough. If the size of the tumour be sufficient to impede respiration and to exert pressure upon the neighbouring organs, we may also have dyspnoea and dysphagia. But the difficulty of breathing varies, in the same case, at different times; if the tumour is attached to the epiglottis by a long pedicle and hangs down into the larynx, it may be drawn into the glottis at every inspiration, and thus give rise