"^^^ SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. in the groove around the corona glandis. Saline, cooling medicine may also sometimes be given with advantage. Chro7iic Balanitis—unattended with much redness and smartintr— otten induces a fleshy, rough, or granular thickening of the preputial mucous membrane, and the discharge is still abundant. In this state the membrane may be dusted with a mixed powder of calomel and calcined magnesia. When conjoined with phimosis, astringent iniec- tions must be used beneath the prepuce, which cannot then be un- covered. Or ointments may be applied with a camel's-hair brush 1 he following Mr. Langston Parker finds to be very efficacious- hydrargyri chloridum mitis," 3ss. ; extract of opium, 5i.; simple cerate or honey, and olive oil, of each ^i. A persistent tendency to balanitis, induced by a long prepuce, can perhaps be overcome, according to the suggestion of Professor Bumstead, by keeping the prepuce constantly retracted; this being accompHshed by the application of a narrow bandage (or strip of plaster ?) around the penis, behind the glans. In the course of a few weeks, the exposed mucous surface becomes hardened, and the foreskin often remains retracted. Failing this result, the superfluous integument should be removed by circumcision. Phimosis.—By this term is meant a contracted state of the orifice of the prepuce or foreskin, whereby the glans cannot be uncovered completely, if at all ; the orifice being reduced to even a pin-hole opening. This condition of the prepuce may be congenital, or acquired; and these two modes of origin sometimes coexist. Congenital phimosis, a not uncommon defect, is associated usually with an elongated and redundant state of the preputial skin, so as to project beyond the glans ; but the mucous membrane is deficient, and thus prevents retraction. Adhesions sometimes exist between the op- posed surfaces of this undeveloped membrane and the glans; and the glans itself is small, owing apparently to the restriction offered by the prepuce to its development. A source of inconvenience only at first, phimosis gives rise even- tually to symptoms of vesical irritability, incontinence, and even to retention of urine ; or often to symptoms simulating stone in the bladder. By the accumulation of sebaceous preputial secretion, irrita- tion and inflammation of the part, or balanitis, is apt to arise; and in after-life, sexual intercourse is rendered abortive by the contracted prepuce retaining the emitted semen. Impotency might then be sus- pected. In the event of gonorrhoeal or syphilitic infection, the pre- putial condition more or less conceals the nature of the case, and interferes with the local treatment. Acquired phimosis is the result of repeated balanitis and thickening of the prepuce, or of chancres with induration, or their cicatrization and contraction, — especially when seated near the orifice of the prepuce. Treatment.—The cause and the degree of phimosis will indicate whether the remedial measures should be operative or not. In acquired phimosis, an acutely inflamed state of the prepuce, or an unhealthy sore, forbids operative interference, lest the wound should become unhealthy. Preputial injections may be used, and when the causative condition has been subdued, the contraction will probably gradually disappear. Otherwise recourse must be had to operation. But if the