SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 620 inability to pass water, or a little bloody urine coming away tbrough the urethra. On introducing a catheter, the bladder is found to be empty, or a small quantity of bloody urine is drawn off. In gunshot wound implicating the bladder, the urine may perhaps be seen to escape through the track of the wound. Treatment.—Extravasation should be immediately prevented ex- tending further, by the introduction of a full-sized gum-elastic catheter into the bladder—which is retained by means of tapes—that the urine may dribble away as fast as it descends into the bladder. Any appear- ance of extravasation presenting externally must be at once met by free incisions, so that the infiltrated fluid shall escape, and sloughs also as they form. By this prompt prevention of further extravasation and arrest of the diffusive inflammation in the cellular texture, a circum- scribing barrier of lymph may be thrown out, and life be preserved. Peritonitis, consequent on extravasation into the peritoneal cavity, may also be diminished by using the catheter as directed, but the fljiid already imprisoned within the peritoneum will still maintain the in- flammation. The general treatment consists in the administration of opium and stimulants, with whatever nourishing food can be taken to support the patient through the subsequent exhaustion, especially in the process of sloughing. Rupture of Ureter.—This rare form of injury has been known ta happen from external violence, and recovery in one instance at least. In a case which Mr. Stanley has recorded, a large accumulation of fluid formed around the seat of injury, with considerable circumscribed swelling and fluctuation, which was repeatedly tapped. Ruptured pelvis of the ureter, in another case, led to the formation of a similar cystic collection of urine behind the peritoneum ; and no less than six pints of urine were drawn off by tapping, at one sitting. Death occurred about ten weeks after the accident. Foreign Bodies.—Various foreign bodies, such as portions of cathe- ters, or bits of pencil or tobacco-pipe, are occasionally thrust into the bladder, through the urethra. Any substance, thus introduced, is usually of some length, and lying perhaps across the bladder, is rarely expelled in passing water; it must therefore be extracted surgically. This may sometimes be done with a lithotrite, by catching the body in the direction of its long axis, or by crushing the substance, as a stone; but sometimes it has been found necessary to have recourse to the operation of lithotomy. Knowing the size and shape of the foreign body, the median operation can be more frequently selected. Ballets, bits of clothing or other bodies, are occasionally lodged in the bladder by gunshot wound, implicating this oi'gan. Any such body must be removed in like manner. In fifteen cases, which Mr. Dixon has collected, the ball had entered the bladder, either primarily, or in consequence of abscess and ulceration after having lodged near this organ; and, in ten of these cases, the ball was removed by the opera- tion of lithotomy, with successful results. Of the remaining five cases, the termination is not recorded. In the female, foreign bodies can be removed more readily from the bladder, owing to the urethra being of larger size and more dilatable, while the shorter extent and straighter course of the passage also facilitates extraction. An instrument, made by Weiss (Pig. S59), is specially suitable for catching and withdrawing a hair-pin.