448 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. of an abscess. But the breast rapidly acquires a remarkable change of form, becoming conical and prominent; and the integument over the most projecting part, assuming a purple hue, sloughs and forms a circular ulcer, through which the encephaloid growth protrudes as a fungoid mass, of a greyish or bloody colour, accompanied with a foul, purulent, and bloody discharge, (i'ig- 768.) Portions of this mass disintegrating and separating, further protrusion from within takes place, and still maintains the fungous mass ; but rarely, the whole tumour thus sloughs out, and cicatrization results. The lymphatic Fig. 769.t Pig. 770. % glands are involved, although less readily than in scirrhus of the breast; and the constitutional cachexy is less marked, or absent. On removing an encephaloid cancer of the breast, the section of the tumour exhibits the characteristic brain-like appearance; the medullary cancer-substance being located within a fibrous stroma (Fig. 769), and having the usual whitish or blood-mixed colour, and soft consistence. Colloid.—This rare kind of cancer of the breast, consisting of gelatinous substance, locu- lated by a delicate fibrous matrix (Fig. 770), forms a tumour of a somewhat tense and elastic character,—not very distinctive. Mr. Erichsen removed one such tumour from the breast; it was non-adherent, and had attained the weight of six pounds, after growing for five years. Mr. Birkett has seen two examples, in both of which the nature of the tumour could not be identified, when in the breast. Isolated centres of the growth are disseminated freely around the principal mass, an important pathological condition with reference to the operation of excision for complete removal of the tumour. * Koy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2795 A. (J. Birkett.) , , i ^nHno- t Ibid., 2795. Encephaloid or medullary cancer of the breast—section, snowuig locular arrangement of cancer-substance, enclosed within a fibro-cellular n"*"?-^ The tumour was only slightly vascular, the vessels being confined chiefly to xuo matrix. A few cysts are^scattered irregularly in its substance. (Sir A. ^o??^^-;: X Ibid., 2796 b. Colloid cancer of the breast; the colloid substance being cou- tained within a slight, open, fibrous matrix. (Thomas Bryant.)