27 TYPICAL CASES OF KNEE-JOINT EXCISION. October, 1869. Scrofiolous caries of the left knee-joint, of traumatic origia ; seven years' duration and equally prolonged treatment, latterly by extension of the limb. Partial ulceration of the articular cartilages of the femur and tibia, followed by partial fibrous anolujlosis and Fig. 490. I'lw 401. retraction of the leg, with partial dislocation of the femur forwards. Health delicate, with constant cough. Excision through the epiphyses, Recovery, with osseous union and a useful limb, in two months and a half. Permanent result known, one and a quarter year. (Fig. 491.) Case 10.—Sarah S , ast. 20. Chronic synovitis of the right knee-joint, of traumatic origin, by a fall off a form. Duration of dis- ease, fourteen years. Treatment in two Metropolitan Hospitals at different periods up to fifteen years of age. At both these institutions amputation of the thigh was declared imperative. Extensive ulceration of the articular cartilages of the femur and tibia; limited fibrous anchylosis, with retraction of the leg to an angle of sixty degrees ; anchylosis of the patella to the condyles of the femur. Health re- duced ; pregnancy of one month. Excision. The night of operation, sickness from chloroform. For two days, painful starlings and jump- ings in the leg of spasmodic character, affecting the knee. Fourth day, an hysterical fit, and the startings were renewed. The usual apparatus—long back-splint, and an external interrupted splint with foot-piece—holds firmly, and no displacement of the ends of bone. Spasms subdued, and sleep induced by the hypodermic injection of morphia—one-sixth of a grain dose occasionally. Two months and one week after operation, " quickening " was first felt. The incision had firmly healed by primary union, and firm anchylosis between the ends of bone progressing. Puffy swelling around the knee; reduced by moderate and gradual compression with a many-tailed bandage. On removing the splints, a small ^dcer was found on the heel, and another on the sharp edge of the tibia. Apparatus reapplied, leaving the heel