INJURIES OF LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 351 lesion of the phrenic nerve, or congestive pneumonia consequent on cither state; but pneumonia or bronchitis is liable to result also from the introduction of cold air into the lungs through the wound, by in- flammation extending downwards from the aperture in the windpipe. (Edema of the glottis in consequence of inflammation, or the irritation or impaction of a partly detached epiglottis, may severally induce asphyxia, when the wound is above the larynx. Loss of the natural sensibility of the glottis, preventing its efficient closure, will allow food to pass into the larynx and through the external wound, without any wonnd of the pharynx or oesophagus. Mucus also is apt to accumulate in the bronchi, owing to their diminished sensibility. Lastly, the respiration may be mechanically impeded below the epiglottis; either by a partly detached portion of cartilage hanging into a laryngeal or t tracheal wound, or by overlapping of the lower portion of the ti'achea I by the upper portion, when this tube is completely divided. Treatment.—The general indications are—to arrest hsemorrhage, to f adjust the wound for reparation, to obviate any difficulty of respira- tion, to administer food, and to avert inflammation of the trachea or lungs. (1.) Hcemorrhage must be arrested by the ligature of any bleeding 1 vessel, whether artery or vein, so as to prevent any oozing or trickling into the larynx or trachea. The introduction of a silver tube into the windpipe aperture of the wound will obviate the liability of blood being sucked in by each act of inspiration. This should be withdrawn as soon as oozing hgemorrhage has ceased. (2.) The wound should be adjusted by position, rather than by sutures. An mtegumental wound may be advantageously united by a few points of suture, throughout its extent. In a deeper wound, involving the windpipe, partial union only can take place, owing to the mobility of the parts subject to the actions of respiration and deglutition; the wound closes chiefly by granulation and cicatrization. If primary union happen to occur in the central part of the wound, coagula are apt to accumulate beneath, threatening suffocation by pressure upon, or passing into, the windpipe, and the wound will have to be reopened for their removal. The extremities, or integumental portion of the incision, may be retained together by a suture or two, leaving the central portion open; the head should then be brought forwards, so as to depress the chin towards the sternum, and fixed in position by a bandage round the crown, with a lateral strip passing down on either side of the face, fastened to a band around the chest. If the trachea be completely divided, a suture or two should be inserted into each side of the tube, to retain its ends together. (3.) Difficulty of breathing must be prevented or overcome, by having regard to the circumstances already enumerated which give rise to dyspnoea. The temperature of the apartment should be main- tained at about 80° Fahrenheit; and the air moistened and softened, as it is breathed through the windpipe aperture, by covering the wound with a piece of muslin loosely folded, beneath which a clean sponge moistened with warm water may be placed adjoining the air aperture. This aperture must be carefully kept open and free of any clot, or other occasion of impediment to the breathing. A wound above the larynx, and followed by oedema of the glottis, will necessitate recourse to tracheotomy. (4.) The administration of food becomes a difficulty only when the pharynx or oesophagus is opened. Food is best intro-