591 INJURIES OF THE RECTUM. (3.) Entero-vaginal Fistula is a rare occurrence ; a communication having been formed between the small intestine and the vagina. This condition would simulate a recto-vaginal fistula; but it may perhaps be distinguished by the feculent discharge having a more yellow colour, and less stercoraceous character. Such fistula is incurable. An operation has been performed by Roux and Casamayor, with the view of estab- lishing a communication between the small and large intestine; but the deep and difficult dissection necessary for this purpose has proved fatal. Anal Tumouks.—Various forms of tumour and excrescence are liable to beset the Anus. They are principally— epithelial cancer, fibrous tumour, warts, and condylomata. (Pig. 847.) The nature of these growths is the same as when occurring in other parts of the body, and they are recognized and diag- nosed by similar symptoms as in other regions. The treatment is excision, which may generally be eifected most conveniently by a stout pair of scissors curved on the flat. Chloroform, ice and salt, or the ether-spray, will be requisite ; the operation being acutely painful, and spasmodic action of the sphincter interfering with its performance. Wet lint-dressing is often sufficient; but a persistent oozing hsemorrhage must be arrested by application of the perchloride of iron or other styptic, and sometimes by the actual cautery, with a com- press and T bandage. Grreat cleanliness should be observed, to prevent any irritation which might induce reproduction of the morbid growth. Anal Conteaction, or stricture of the anal orifice, results from tight cicatrization, in consequence of the healing of ulcers or wounds of the anal integument. This may take place after operations of excision; as the removal of external piles, or of anal tumours. The only treatment is dilatation, gradually effected by bougies or compressed sponge-tents. It is remarkable how small an opening will suffice for the purpose of adequate defsecation. Injuries of the Rectum. Wounds.—The Rectum is liable to wounds or laceration by external injury, as a severe kick in the fundament, or the introduction of a foreign body; but more commonly from internal causes, as during straining efforts of defsecation, and the passage of large and hardened fasces, or in parturition. Wounds of the rectum are sometimes caused by surgical misadventure, as in lithotomy, or unskilful catheterism; or surgically, in the operation of puncturing the bladder through the trigone vesicale for the relief of retention of urine. Injury by wound or laceration may involve the whole thickness of the wall of the rectum or the mucous membrane only; and it is evident that the lesion may vary in direction, as being vertical or transverse. The symptoms will be sudden pain and hemorrhage, occurring in * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 1264. A cluster of lobed and nodulated warts around the anus.