454 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. some other part or internal organ. Inflammation, and its destructive consequences, suppuration and sloughing, have also proved curative for a time, m rarely exceptional cases. If, again, by cure be under- stood the non-recurrence of cancer after its apparently entire removal by operation, such true cure may not be impossible, but it is highly improbable in a single instance. Extirpation, therefore, cannot be regarded as a final remedy for the disease. The reasons which justify recourse to operation rest upon other grounds, already explained; namely, as to the temporary relief from suffering, and the probable prolongation of life; the risk from the mortality of the operation itself, in proper cases, not exceeding six deaths per cent. Operation op Amputation op the Breast.—Whatever may be the disease, whether a cancerous or non-malignant tumour, removal of the breast is performed in the following manner:—The patient lying down, and chloroform having been administered, an assistant holds the arm away from the affected breast, sufficiently to put the pectoralis muscle on the stretch, and define the breast on its axillary border. The Sur- geon introduces a breast-knife on the axillary aspect of the breast, and makes a semi-elliptical incision below the nipple, varying in its extent according to the size of the tumour ; this incision is made first, that its course shall not be obscured by blood trickling down from above. A corresponding incision is then made above the nipple, thus including the nipple and an elliptical portion of integument. The portion re- moved is small compared with the size of the tumour, but the integu- ment remaining as a bag after operation, contracts eventually so as Fig. 771. not to be superfluous. The breast is then dissected out from below npwards, the knife being carried slopingly around the organ down to the fibres of the pectoralis, along the axillary aspect of this muscle, and thence upwards under the tumour, to meet the upper incision. (Fig. 771.) Care should be taken not to make a button-hole in the skin; a blemish which may be avoided by directing the edge of the knife towards the tumour, in detaching it from the integument, below and above. A cancerous breast must be removed more extensively than when it is the seat of non-malignant tumour. The incisions should be carried so as to include any apparently affected portion of integument; and