EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT. 39 for the reproduction of bone, to obtain an increased length of limb, has been practised in the hip-joint more particularly. As I have already stated, in considering the general question of sub-periosteal excision, the results of this method have not seemed to warrant its alleo-ed 'advantage with regard to the operation on joints; whatever maf be the occasionally successful results of the same method after thus removing portions of the shafts of various bones. In excision of the Up-joint, Professor Sayre lays much stress on preserving the periosteum; and, as he has practised this mode of per- formino- that operation more frequently, I believe, than any other Suro-eon, I shall here follow the description he has given of the requisite details, in his recent " Lectures on Orthopedic Surgery," etc., p. 288. , ^. Having placed the patient on the sound side, under an anesthetic, " select a strong knife, and drive it home to the bone at a point mid- way between the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium and the top of the great trochanter ; then drawing it in a curved line over the ilium, keeping it firmly in contact with the bone, make an incision across to the top of the great trochanter, extending it not directly over the centre of that process, but midway between the centre and its posterior border, and complete it by carrying the knife forward and inward, making the whole length of the incision from four to six or eight inches, according to the size of the thigh. Thus, a curved in- cision is made through all the soft parts down to the bone and through the periosteum. Then, an assistant, by means of retractors, draws the soft parts aside, and you come at once upon the great trochanter. With a narrow, thick knife, make a second incision through the peri- osteum only, at right angles with the first, at a point an inch or an inch and a half below the top of the great trochanter, just opposite the lesser trochanter, or a little above it, and extend it as far as possible around the bone. Here, again, make sure that the periosteum is freely divided. Very often a thick involucrum will be present, and great care will be necessary to make the incision through the periosteum complete. Now, we have first a curved incision through the soft parts and second, a T-shaped incision through the periosteum, at the point indicated on the outside of the femur, just above the lesser trochanter. At the junction of the two incisions through the periosteum, introduce the blade of the periosteal elevator, and gradually peel up the peri- osteum from either side, together with its membranous attachments, until the digital fossa is reached. At this point the rotators of the tliigh are inserted, and the attachments are so firm that you will not be able to peel them off, but will be obHged to divide them with the knife. In doing this, the knife should be kept close to the bone, to avoid a branch of the internal circumflex artery. Having divided the tendons, continue to elevate the periosteum upon either side as far as can be safely done without breaking it; thus to leave an entire peri- osteal sheath after the bone has been removed, in order to prevent any infiltration into the surrounding tissues, and to retain the muscular attachments for the future mobility of the joint. Slightly adduct the limb, so as to lift the head of the femur out of the acetabulum; in this way, the portion of periosteum that cannot be reached with the elevator is removed from the bone. But observe to turn the bone out only just enough to get the finger behind it for guiding the saw in its removal;