540 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 819. covered with leather, so as to form a firm, flat compress over, not in, the aperture, and retained by a broad piece of adhesive plaster! Thug supported, the aperture has a strong natural tendency to close, in two or three months. In adults, a suitable truss must be worn, made on the same principle as for the hernia in infancy. The annexed figures represent the most appropriate forms of Truss. A broad elastic bandage, of such width as to support the whole weight of the abdominal viscera, and carrying a pad which rests upon the umbilical aperture and localizes the force there. (Fig. 818.) Another form, suited for severe cases, is a lightly YiG 818 constructed steel truss. (Fig. 819.) Matthew's " reflex action " pad (Fig. 820) guards the umbilical, aperture, and is self-adapting. The radical cure by operation has been performed by Mr .Wood, in three obsti- nate cases. He applied a small pair of rectangular pins vertically, and in opposite directions, one on each side of the open- ing, transfixing the edge of the tendinous aper- ture and making them emerge close to each other through the in- teguments above and below the opening. When locked into each other, and twisted, the edges of the aperture were drawn close together in a line with the linea alba, so as to pro- trude the integuments and sac of the rupture in a vertical fold above Fig. 820. them. The pins were surrounded and the skin protected by strips of lint and plaster, and were retained four days, without any unpleasant symptoms. They were then withdrawn, and the edges of the aperture had firmly united. A pad and circular bandage were used for a short time, and the child was discharged from the Hospital. While under observation, the rupture had not returned. An invaginating operation has also been performed by the same Surgeon, on the principle already fully explained with regard to inguinal and femoral hernia?. The details of this procedure are given in Mr. Wood's Treatise. Kcapect-