LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 417 Fig. 751. the vertebral column. Unfolding is accomplished, most eSectually, by raisino- the upper extremity of the curve, and supporting its convexity at the°same time, as shown in the figure. Replacement of the ribs and scapula, or of the projecting shoulder, consequent on spinal rotation, must also be accomplished ; and this requirement is specially provided for, in conjunction with rectification of the double curvature, by Bigg's spinal instrument. (Fig. 751.) Aj)plication of the Instrument is thus described by Mr. Bigg, in his " Manual of Orthopraxy: " " Stand behind the patient, and, opening the pelvic band, place it firmly around the hips, in such a manner that the arms rest upon the crutches. See that the two plates press gently against the arc of each curvature, the vertebral levers having been expanded previous to placing the instrument on the patient's body. Fasten the lacing bands in front, and then gradually tighten, by means of the key which belongs to the instrument, the vertebral levers. Lastly, see that the arm-slides are at such a height as to maintain the shoulders parallel with the pelvis, and fasten the shoulder-straps. As a certain amount of irksomeness is sure to be felt on first adopting any kind of mechanical appliance, the instrument should be so worn as to gradually accustom the patient to its restraint. This is easily done by wearing it for four hours the first day, six the next, eight on the third, and for the whole day afterwards, after which time the patient readily submits to it, and always feels greatly disinclined to part with the apparatus. Where the patient is young, restoration of the spine to its straight position becomes a perfect certainty, provided that great care is bestowed upon the adaptation of the mechanism. The pressure requires to be slightly increased at intervals ; and many Surgeons deem it desirable to keep the instrument applied by night as weU as day, thus taking advantage of the short time left for rapid improvement. In adults, great and beneficial change can be wrought in the position of even the worst form of lateral curvature, but it Fig. 752. requires a longer time and more care in adjustment than when a younger person is being dealt with. The mechanical action of the instrument is greatly facilitated by causing the patient to recline on a chair as is here represented (Fig. 752), for two hours daily ; as by this VOL. n. 2 E