70 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. thrtt she can work readily, write, or play the piano. The limb is, there- fore, a most useful one, and this result has now been permanently established by thirteen years' service (1878). Wrist.—Excision of the wrist comprises, properly speaking, not only the removal of the articulatory portions forming the radio-carpal articulation or wrist-joint, but also the carpus, and bases of the metacarpal bones; this extent of excision differing from that of the analogous operation on the ankle-joint, which is restricted to the re- moval of the articulatory portions of the tibia and fibula with that of the astragalus. Conditions of Wrist-disease appropriate for Excision.—Partial or complete disease of the wrist cannot be referred, like that of the larger and more simple joints, to an independent origin, either in the synovial membranes, three in number, or in the bones of the wrist. The lower articular end of the radius, and that of the ulna, which in relation to excision is associated with the wrist; the carpus below, consisting of eiaht bones, in two ranges of four in each; and the bases of the five metacarpal bones; are all so contiguous, as to obscure the precise seat of origin in caries affecting the wrist. Then again, the three synovial membranes are as one, in relation to the origin of disease in the form of synovitis ;—the membranous investment of the radio-carpal articu- lation, which sometimes communicates with that of the radio-ulnar articulation through a perforation in the intervening triangular fibro- cartilage ; the investment between the two ranges of carpal bones, with its two prolongations upwards, and sometimes extending into the synovial membrane of the radio-carpal articulation, and the three pro- longations downwards which always extend to and invest the four inner carpo-metacarpal articulations; and the separate synovial sac for this articulation in the thumb. Caries of the wrist appears to be generally of scrofulous, and thence constitutional, origin—excited perhaps by some injury, of apparently trifling character, as a sprain ; while synovitis seems to have another constitutional origin, probably as chronic rheumatism. Thus, we recognize as conditions of disease for excision :— (1.) Scrofulous caries of the wrist; often involving the lower articular ends of the radius and ulna, the whole of the carpal bones, and the bases of the metacarpal bones, in a state of extensive caries. (2.) Chronic synovitis, of perhaps more limited extent, but leading to caries and de- struction of the articulations. (Fig. 516.) In the specimen here figured, rheumatic arthritis had produced the usual ossific deposit around the joints affected. The nmotmt of hone to be removed, as being apparently diseased, may vary according to the character and extent of the disease. Thus, excision might include the lower ends of the radius and ulna, with the adjoining carpal bones,—in the wrist-joint; or the bases of some or all * St. BartholomeVs Hosp. Mus., 2, 23.