SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. one a sacculaterl stone was left undetected in the bladder. The naLure of the second calculus was not in all cases the same as that of the fi st m sixteen, the second formation had the same composition as the first' Z Hfl f P^°^Pj^^<^i«. ««ven consisted of lithic acid and V ' P^°«Pl^^tes succeeded the lithates in five, and the oxalates m two cases. r^.^T^^^ LiTHOTOMT.-The Median operation of lithotomy is so named, because the incision is made in the middle line of the perineum i^ut this operation comprises two methods of procedure in relation to theprostatej a vertical section of the membranous urethra alone, and then dilatation of the prostate with the neck of the bladder,—" lithec- tasy in the male, as it might be termed; or a vertical section of the prostate, as well as of the membranous urethra. Formerly the one was called also the "Marian operation," as having been advocated by feanctus Marianus ; and the " operation of the apparatus major," from the number of instruments employed in performing it. 4-1 Marian Operation.—K grooved staff was' introduced into the bladder, and the patient trussed up as for lateral lithotomy • the operator then made a vertical and nearly central incision, just to the left of the raphe, and terminating just above the anus. The mem- branous urethra was opened in the groove of the staff, and the knile being kept well in the groove, a long probe was passed by the side of the knife into the bladder. Both staff and knife were then withdrawn, leaving only the probe as a guide to the bladder. Along this instru- ment two iron rods or "conductors" were introduced, and by sepa- rating their handles, the prostate and neck of the bladder were dilated —-or, as John Bell observes, the operator "tore open the prostate." The conductors were held aside, and " dilators " introduced to make way for the forceps, wherewith the stone was extracted. Thus, as Le Cat expressed it, the two principles of the Marian operation were— "small incision, much dilatation." Vacca revived the Median opera- tion, and practised also a vertical section of the prostate; thereby avoiding laceration of this part, but endangering the rectum, Allarton's Operation.—The Marian operation had long fallen into disuse, but of late years it has been revived and slightly modified by Mr. AUarton; and with his name Median lithotomy is now generally associated, in this country. The operation is performed much in the same way as by the old Marian operation, up to the introduction of the probe into the bladder ; when the forefinger, instead of dilators, is passed along the probe, and with a semi-rotary motion, the prostate is thus dilated. The points to be attended to are these :—the curved staff is held by an assistant, firmly, perpendicularly, and hooked up against the pubes; the fore- finger of the left hand is introduced into the rectum, so that its point shall steady the staff in the prostate ; a straight, sharp-pointed knife is entered into the perineum, in the middle line, about half an inch above the anus, and carried on steadily till it strikes the groove of the staff at the membranous urethra in front of the prostate,—a depth of about one inch and a half; the knife is moved along the groove towards the bladder for a few lines deeper, and then withdrawn, at the same time cutting upwards an external incision of three-quarters to an inch and a half, according to the presumed size of the stone. A long ball-pointed probe is slid along the groove of the staff into the bladder.