581 PEOLAPSUS OF THE RECTUM. bowel, it may pass up witli the finger and not re-descend wlien it is withdrawn; but, in extreme cases, it may be necessary to partially divide the sphincter by inserting a straight narrow bistoury or teno- tomy-knife between the bowel and the anal orifice. When the bowel is fairly returned, a pad of lint or piece of sponge must be apphed over the anus, and retained in siho by a T bandage. A well-fitting rectal supporter or truss should be worn in old-standing, established prolapsus. But a simple expedient, of American origin, will sometimes prove very efficacious ; a strip of thick plaster is drawn vertically over the anus, thus to brace up the relaxed sphincter muscle and the bowel. After an evacuation, a fresh strip is reapplied. The constitutional treatment will vary with the cause of prolapsus. A tonic plan of treatment is always appropriate, but the state of the bowels must be specially regarded. In children, and especially the ill-fed children of the poor, it will generally be requisite to correct an irregular action of the bowels or diarrhoea, as depending on improper diett often an excess of vegetable food. The removal of this cause ot intestinal irritation must be coupled with the administration of tonic purgatives, and the rectification of the intestinal secretions. Perhaps the°most generally useful form of combination is rhubarb, hydrar- gyrum cum creta, and carbonate of soda or magnesia, taken as a, powder every night at bed-time. Ascarides may be the source of irritation in some cases, or the diarrhoea may be sympathetic as depending on dentition. In adults, the habitual constipation_ usually present must be overcome by castor oil, senna electuary, or bitartrate of potash; or by mild enemata, if the constipation be rectal. Stone in the bladder, enlarged prostate, or stricture of the urethra will obviously require attention, when prolapsus depends on these causes. Local treatment, of a medicinal character, consists chiefly in the use of astringent injections, to correct the relaxed state of the mucous membrane. For this purpose, the decoction of oak bark, with alum, in the proportion of a scruple of the latter to eight ounces of the decoction, will be sufficiently astringent ; and a third of the quan- tity enough for an injection. The muriated tincture of iron, a drachm to a pint of water, is also an excellent astringent; two or three ounces being thrown up, or more according to the age of the patient. Mr. Curling usually prescribes the one formula; Sir B. Brodie preferred the other. Infusion of rhatany, or a solution of tannic acid, may also be employed with advantage. Any injection should be used cold, and allowed to remain in the rectum for some time, which is more conveniently done at bed-time. A diseased state of the prolapsed mucous membrane must be managed on ordinary principles. Thus, an ulcerated surface may be brushed with a solution of nitrate of silver. Operative procedures are resorted to for the cure of inveterate pro- lapsus. They are excision, ligature, and cauterization. The object is to produce such an amount of contraction, by the healing of a wounded surface, or after slight sloughing of the mucous membrane, as shall effectually and permanently brace up the previously prolapsed part. Excision, as first proposed by the late Mr. Hey, of Leeds, consisted in removing only the loose and pendulous flaps of skin around the anus ; but Dupuytren's modification consists in removing also portions