247 FOEEIGN BODIES IN THE EAR. Fig. 648 * cWnk remains between it and tbe waUs of the meatus. The deafness or pain may come on quite suddenly on the complete occlusion ot the meatus by a slight inflammatory swelling from cold, or by the dis- placement of the accumulation or the entrance of a drop of water, which causes the mass to swell quickly. Deafness from this cause is also variable, being frequently better in the morning or after eating. In many cases of accumulation of cerumen which are comphcated with other aural disease, which may or may not be a result of the cerumen, its removal does not restore the hearing power. it a vibrating tuning-fork, placed on the middle line of the vertex of the. head, be not heard better in the affected than m the other ear, there is probably some complication. If the accumulation can be easily removed with the forceps, without danger of pushing it in against the membrane and without pain, it is well to remove it in this manner, as there may be some abnormal con- dition of the membrane, in which the forcible injection of a current of water upon it is not advisable. _ The syringe (Fig. 648), which must be used when it is not found practicable to remove the accumulation with the forceps, should contain from four to five ounces of water; the calibre of the nozzle being from one to two millimetres. A bowl being held by the patient imme- diately under the lobule of the ear, the Surgeon draws the auricle upwards and backwards; and having passed the nozzle slightly within the orifice of the meatus, a moderately forcible stream of warm water is directed, not against the mass of cerumen, but along the upper wall of the meatus, so as to cause the current to act on the mass while it is passing outwards. Should the accumulation prove hard and . tightly impacted, it may require several sittings to complete the removal, between which the patient ^ sh6uM frequently fill the meatus with warm water or oil, to soften and loosen the mass. Foreign Bodies.—Foreign bodies ; in. the ear are most frequently found in young children, who introduce beads, marbles, pebbles, shells, and various other articles of different shapes and sizes, into the meatus. A foreign body which will not swell and has no cutting edge, will generally remain without causing-any urgent symptoms -, though, should it have a sharp edge, or press on the membrana tympani, it may cause pain, giddiness, confusion,vomiting, cough, anaesthesia, epilepsy, etc. The form of the canal being that of a spiral turning inwards and downwards, ■with an expansion at either extremity, it is often peculiarly difiB.cult and dangerous to extract foreign substances in any other way than by the injection of warm water. The Surgeon does not frequently see the patient until forcible attempts have been made to extract the body, which have resulted only in inflammation of the canal, and a lessening of its calibre, and have often done more harm than the presence of the bodies themselves. In such cases the inflammation should be allayed by rest, leeches, and fomentations, before any attempt at extraction is made. When the inflammation is subdued, the Surgeon should first assure * Ear syriuge. (Gruber.)