436 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. becomes involved, accompanied wifch a sense of weiglit and tension. Integumental swelling and redness supervene with acute pain, and considerable constitutional disturbance or inflammatory fever. Stoppumtion usually takes place,—resolution being a rare termi- nation ; and pus collects in tlie breast, on its cutaneous surface, or behind the organ. The formation of mammaiy abscess may, therefore, be either s?ipe?'-mammary, iwira-glandular, or sM&-mammary. These different situations of abscess can only be distinguished by careful palpation with the fingers, as to the depth of fluctuation. The first- named abscess is sometimes a primary affection; it enlarges to the size of a walnut or a small egg, and bursts in about a week or fortnight. Intra-mammary abscess may involve the whole gland, in one or more cavities, thus attaining to a much larger size; and it comes to the surface more slowly, bursting usually near the nipple,_ in perhaps from two to four weeks. The kind of discharge is distinctive of its source; being a mixture of pus and milk, a quantity of thick yellow matter, streaked with white curdy fluid, rolls out of the opening. Sub-mam- mary abscess is the most characteristic. The breast seems to rest upon and be projected by something behind it, and which yields, on slight pressure, the elastic fluctuation of a water-cushion; with perhaps scarcely any integumental tenderness or redness. Abscess under the breast is not necessarily connected with mastitis ; it sometimes appears as a primary affection, and always acquires a considerable size, passing even beyond the boundary of the gland. The matter progresses to- wards the surface slowly; it points very often, at several spots around the circumference of the gland, or, making its way between the lobular masses of the organ, an opening forms near the areola towards its sterno-clavicular border. Rarely, the abscess points backwards, and opens into the pleura or the anterior mediastinum; and rarely, also, pleurisy is induced by sub-mammary abscess ; but in either such case, the peril of this or that complication should make the Surgeon vigilant, and guarded in his prognosis. _ Causes.—Inflammation of the breast occurs commonly in the adult female, and during lactation; leading to the formation of milk abscess. Both breasts are sometimes affected in succession, an instance of which came under my care. During pregnancy and weaning, the inflam- mation happens very seldom; more frequently during the former than the latter period, and when at the time of weaning, it is generally excited by an abrupt discontinuance of suckling—owing to the death of the infant or illness of the mother. Some local irritation, not un- frequently, induces it; especially ulceration of the nipple, the irritation of sucking, obstruction of a milk duct, contusion or exposure to cold; and occasionally a diseased state of the axillary glands. On the other hand, the inflammation very rarely arises before puberty, about that period, or during the inactive state of the gland. But I have had one such case, in an Indian girl, only eleven years of age. The abscess pro- iected as if the breast were fully developed; when opened, it dischargea freely and healed slowly. In infants, I have known mammary abscess produced by an ignorant practice, common, I beheve, m some W^J^^"- the country,—that of pulling the nipple " to break the strings ot tue breast." Sub-mammary abscess, when independent of mastitis, may proceed from caries or necrosis of the ribs, or empyema, by perforation of the thoracic wall.