DIVISION 11. INJUKIES AND DISEASES OF ORGANS AND REGIONS. THE HEAD. CHAPTER XLII. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE SCALP, CRANIUM, MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN, AND BRAIN. Injuries of the Scalp.—Wounds.—The integument covering tlie skull is liable to wounds resembling tbose of tbe soft parts in any other situation. Scalp-wounds may therefore be incised, punctured, or lacerated and contused ; and these lesions are of very common occur- rence. They have two peculiarities worthy of notice—a marked tendency to heal by primary adhesion, however extensive the wound and detachment of the scalp from the pericranium; and, on the other hand, a special liability to the supervention of erysipelas, suppuration, and sloughing. The favourable character of these wounds seems owing to the greater vascularity of the scalp as compared with the common integument; the unfavourable character alluded to seems to be of constitutional origin, erysipelas of the scalp occurring only or chiefly in persons of " broken " constitutional health. Treatment is the same as that of wounds in general; but the cir- cumstances referred to encourage the attempt to alioays solicit union of the scalp, even when extensively incised or lacerated, and detached ;• and yet render doubtful the issue of even the slightest scalp-wound. Any hgemorrhage may be arrested by compression, or, if necessary, by torsion or ligature ; but the bleeding usually ceases by sponging with, cold water. The integument around the wound should be shaved, and cleansed of any hair, grit, or other foreign body; then laid down and replaced, if detached, and the lips of the wound neatly brought to- gether; strips of adhesive or isinglass plaster being used to retam them in position, aided, if requisite, by a wire suture here and there. Care should be taken, as Neudorfer observes, that the lips of the wound be not inverted, lest the growth of the hair-stumps should interfere with union taking place. Water-dressing is appHed, by a strip of lint, to any part that cannot fairly be drawn together. A bandage may be used, but it should be applied as lightly as possible, consistent with its use. This dressing need not be reapphed for twenty- four or forty-eight hours, by which time primary union will often have commenced. In the event of suppuratmi, bagging must be prevented