10 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tion has cotntnenced. The chief source of reparation is uncertain. Olher 8 observations, with those of Maisonneuve, show the importance ot the periosteum, as the most active organ in the formation of callus, alter fracture, rather than the bone-tissue or even the medullary mem- brane, and as being far more productive than the surrounding texture, ihe same relative importance, therefore, may be attributed to the peri- osteum m the process of repair after excision. Accordingly, I always ^^•^r^i!''*' detaching this membrane, and its vascular continuity with the textures around the ends of bone, which should be left im- bedded up to the surface of section. Suh-periosteal Excision.—This method of excision has attracted attention by the investigations of Oilier respecting the ossific repro- ductive ppwer of the periosteum. The operation essentially consists m detaching and reflecting the periosteal membrane, by means of Tariously contrived paring-elevators or other instruments; then the denuded portion of bone is sawn off; and, lastly, the membrane is replaced, that by its preservation the bone may be reproduced. This conservative procedure is applicable alike to the removal of the ar- ticular ends of bone in the excision of joints, and of the shafts of bones, partially or entirely. The periosteum is more or less readily detached ; from healthy bone, and at an early period of life, this membrane can be separated^ easily, often being observed to curl back from a section of the bone in amputation; and in diseased conditions, as caries and necrosis, the membrane may be stripped off cleanly, or it slides off, having become detached; but in consequence of inflammation it may be found adherent, so as to be separated only with such injury as would destroy its vitality. The tendinous insertions of muscles are to be detached with the periosteum. Two advantages result from this modification of excision, when suc- cessful. Firstly, the reproduction of substitute-bone, which may be required after removal of the articular ends of bone to an unusual extent in joint-excision, and which must be necessary after the excision of a more considerable portion in the shaft of a bone; thus, in either case, to regain as much as possible the original length of the limb. Hence the greater importance of sub-periosteal excision with regard to the knee or hip joint, than relative to the elbow or shoulder, the length of the arm being of less consequence to the functional utility of the limb. A second advantage of the operation is that any tendons detached with the periosteum may regain a better attachment than after ordinary excision. On the other hand, as affecting the joints alone, the sub- periosteal procedure would be disadvantageous where fibrous union and a movable joint are desired, as in the case of all the articulations, excepting the knee; unless, in other excisions, such an unusual length of bone be removed as would impair the use of the limb. The results of sub-periosteal excision have not generally been suc- cessful, although there are notable instances of considerable reproduc- tion of bone. This mode of operation has been practised chiefly by Oilier, Langenbeck, Dr. Sayre, and some other Surgeons in the excision of joints ; principally the hip, shoulder, elbow, and knee. In nineteen cases of the elbow, collected by Oilier, there were four deaths, all, how- ever, in adults; whereas in eleven cases under thirty years of age, all survived. As regards the mortality, therefore, no advantage can be claimed for this method, on behalf of the elbow-joint, compared with