94 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. inwards and t.ho othor outwards, as regards the passage of the knifo ; circular ampntation, by cutting from the skin towards the bone by a circular sweep of the knife, successively applied, with retraction of the divided integuments, or by two oval semicircular sweeps, progressing in like manner towards tlie bone. A combination of these two methods is sometimes practised; as by a single long flaji on one aspect of the limb, and a transverse incision on the other side—Teale's amputation, or amputation by a long and a short rectangular flap. The flap amputation will be described so thoroughly in particular amputations, as of the thigh, that it would be superfluous to introduce it here. The circular amputation may be conveniently noticed once for all. The preliminary arrangements having been made as for a flap ampu- tation, the Surgeon stands in the relative position neces.sary to grasp the thigh—for example, with his left hand just below the part where he is about to amputate; the integuments must then be drawn up by an assistant, who grasps the limb with both hands. Holding the knife lightly, but securely, the operator passes it under the thigh, bending his hand back until the edge of the knife lies on the inner and anterior surface of the thigh. (Fig. 530.) Sinking the edge through the shin, he carries it deliberately round under the limb, and then over it, gradually changing the bend of the wrist, until the hand is as much inclined forwards as it was in the opposite direction; and thus com- FiG. 530. Fig. 531. pletes a circular incision. Whatever be the extent of retraction pro- duced, the integuments should still be drawn upwards, evenly around the limb; the knife is again applied as before, at the line of retracted integuments (Fig. 531), and made to sweep round the limb, passing half an inch or more through afoneurosis and superficial muscular fibres. The assistant, continuing to draw upwards, presents a fresh surface high up, and passes his hands down into the wound to secure the surface already gained ; a third time the knife is made to encircle the limb, at the upward line of the second incision, dividing the muscles; large blood-vessels, and nerves, down to the bone. Retraction beino- continued by the assistant, some muscular fibres may bo made to appear, attached to the bone for an inch or more aboyc the line