384 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Pulsating broncTiocele would be most appropriately treated hy ligature. Injection of percliloride of iron has been found serviceable, subject to tbe risk of considerable inflammation, suppuration, and pyasmia supervening. Cystic bronchocele may be tapped here and there, and injected witli tincture of iodine, in order to induce inflammation and adhesive oblitera- tion of the cysts. Excision of the thyroid gland should hardly be entertained; this operation is specially dangerous, owing to almost uncontrollable haemor- rhage, and the disease does not efiect the general health nor peril life. The most suitable conditions are either simple or cystic bronchoceles, of small size, and situated more in the middle line of the neck; especially when such growths are prominent and movable. If resorted to, the operation must be performed by an incision in the middle line of the neck, so as to turn the tumour out of its bed, taking care to ligature the vessels as they are successively divided. Removal of any portion of the gland, as of the isthmus crossing the trachea, should be accomplished with similar precaution; and the remainder of the gland secured on either side by double ligature, previous to excision of the intervening portion. Successful results have followed the operation of complete excision, in a few cases, recorded by Dr. W. Greene, of Maaine, and by Dr. P. H. Watson ("Edin. Med. Journal," Sept., 1873). But, for the reasons already mentioned, it is a pro- cedure not to be lightly entertained. Tracheotomy may be performed for the relief of urgent dyspncsa, arising either from direct pressure on the trachea, or spasm of the glottis due to irritation of the recurrent laryngeal nerve. (2.) Inflammation of the thyroid is rare; it arises spontaneously, perhaps, in scrofulous persons only. (3.) Fibrous, cartilaginous, and osseous formations sometimes occur in this gland; tubercle is scarcely ever seen, and cancer in its meduUary form is very exceptional (Rokitansky). _ (4 ) Kernia Bronchialis is occasionally produced by protrusion of the mucous membrane through the cartilages of the larynx or the rings of the trachea, as a result of violent exertions of the voice. Larrey met with it in French officers, and in the priests who, with their deep-toned voice, call the people to prayer from the minarets m ]\Iohammedan countries—as I often heard them do at Scutari. The tumour is soft and elastic, increased by any expiratory ettort, and it disappears on pressure. The support of a compress is the only curative treatment. k ■ a 4. „ c^rnlli'ntr Parotid Gland.—Parotitis or Mumps.—An inflammatory sweiimg of the parotid gland, involving the submaxillary and sublmgu^ glands; and usually affecting both sides of the neck. Some pain a^d ftiffness accompany this glandular enlargement; but fPF'^^lf tion rarely supervenes, although the swelling may be very persistent. It migrates, occasionally-by metastasis, as it is said-to the testicle, or to th^ breast in the female. Commonly seen m children and so^<^tnnes m adults, the disease arises apparently from cold and damp, and lias a slightly infectious character. ^Cotipp There is no danger in this affection, only considerable ^convenience. The Treatment consists simply in the topical application ot warm fomentation or poultice, and stimulating embrocations when the swei-