DISEASES OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. 197 BacryoUths.—Concretions, by deposition of the earfcliy salts of tlie tears sometimes form in the canaliculi or in the sac. This occasion of obstruction is also attended with the constant overflow of tears, swell- ina- in the situation of obstruction, inflammation, and perhaps sup- puliation. t i • ^ j.i The introduction of a probe into the canaliculus, or thence into the sac, will detect the presence of the concretion; which must then be removed by an incision, a scoop being used to extract the foreign ^°*^A. detached eyelash sometimes intrudes into one of the canaliculi; its point protruding irritates the caruncle and semilunar fold; or it may almost escape detection. Removal of the hair with a fine forceps will at once terminate this inconvenience. . . Polypus has been known to form in the lachrymal sac ; giving rise to a tumour, or swelling of soft consistence, and varying in size from a pea to a filbert. Any such growth may be removed with fine scissors or ligature, the sac having been laid open. Diseases of the Conjunctiva.—(1.) Conjunctivitis, ob Ophthalmia. —Inflammation of the conjunctiva, originating in this membrane, presents certain characteristic appearances ; and whereby it can be distinguished from inflammation of the sclerotic coat of the eye itself, or sclerotitis—a very important diagnosis. S^jmptoms.—Conjunctivitis is denoted by bright scarlet redness of the conjunctiva; most apparent on the inner surface of the lids and junction around the sclerotic coat of the eye, but shading oii as it approaches the cornea; and this redness consists of a network of the conjunctival vessels, which are plainly seen owing to their superficial position, tortuosity, open arrangement, and large size, as well as by their mobility. On the other hand, the redness of sclerotitis is most marked around the edge of the cornea, in the form of a dusky pink zone—sclerotic zone—shading ofE as it disappears backwards beneath the fibrous expansion of the recti muscles ; and this zonular redness is simply a uniform tint without visible anastomoses, the sclerotic vessels being closely set together and of smaller size. Sclero- tic redness is characteristic of several forms of disease in the deep- seated tissues of the eye ; and therefore the twofold distinctive features of its situation and the vascularity, as compared with that of con- junctivitis, should be carefully noted by the student and observed in practice. The additional symptoms of conjunctival inflammation are smarting, heat, weight, and stiffness in the lids, and as the disease advances, a sensation as if a grain of sand were rubbing between them and the globe. There is a more or less abundant flow of tears or laclirymation, particularly on exposure of the eye, and some intolerance of light. . Tbe causes of this simple and typical form of the disease may be— slight local irritation, as by an inverted eyelash or other small foreign body in the eye, or exposure to cold and damp ; disorder of the digestive organs and general debility. March winds and dyspepsia, co-operating, frequently give rise to ordinary conjunctivitis. Treatment.—The removal of any source of local iiritation must, of course, be primarily attended to. Remedial measures should then