516 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. it can be worn when necessary to control a hernia in the night as well ^P". ' ^^^^ sitting posture loosens the spring by diminishing the tension of the under-strap, the support of this truss is insecure except during perfect rest. Bigg's triple lever-truss brings three lines of force to bear on the hernial ring; it is thus specially Fig. 798. Fig. 799. fitted for exceptional cases of inguinal hernia, which cannot be controlled or supported by pre- viously described trusses. The horse-shoe pad, devised by Mr. John Wood (Fig. 797), affords a very efficient support for oblique inguinal hernia; and the rmgr-pad (Fig. 798) is well adapted for the direct form of hernia. Both the trusses, thus fitted, are made by Messrs. Matthews. Scrotal hernia Truss has two peculiarities of construction. It is formed of a padded pelvic spring, as in other trusses, but the pad, instead of being pear-shaped or oval, is fusiform ; and the lower pro- longation is attached to a perineal strap. (Fig. 799.) This strap being carried round the posterior part of the tlaigh opposite to the rupture, and fastened to the pelvic spring, keeps the pad firmly fixed along the whole length of the inguinal canal; and guards also the external aper- ture. Thus, then, both the inguinal protrusion, and its continuation as scrotal hernia, are prevented. On looking at the various forms of Truss above described, it will be seen that they differ somewhat in the pelvic spring having a trans- verse or oblique direction; but the principal peculiarity of each consists in the pad—as to its shape, oval, pyriform, fusiform, horseshoe, or ring ; its immobility, by a ball-and-socket joint or helical spring; and its further adaptation by padding. In regard to this last particular, other pad-materials may also be mentioned—the sa?icZ-pad, and the inflated- pad, with air or water. Strangulated Hernia.—The operation for liberating inguinal hernia, at the seat of stricture, and then returning the visceral protrusion, is conducted in accordance with the procedure already fully described in the general treatment of Hernia. It will therefore be requisite to notice only those particulars which are peculiar to the inguinal opera- tion. This operative procedure may be described as follows :—The patient lying on his back, and under the influence of chloroform, and the parts having been shaved, an incision is made in the course of the neck of the tumour, by pinching up the skin transversely about opposite the external abdominal ring, and transfixing the fold. (Fig. 800.) Any