^'•^^ SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERr. ligament, wliere its point was engaged in the fascia transversalis. It Lad occasioned repeated attacks of peritonitis, and after its extraction death resulted from that cause. There is a specimen in St G^.or^^^^^ Laceration OF the PEEINEUM.-This injury happens occasionally during parturition ; m consequence of the large size of the foetal head or trom rigidity of the perineum; or sometimes under operations manual or instrumental, skilfully or unskilfully executed. Durino^ parturition laceration or rupture of the perineum occurs in the passa-e oi the foetal head. It varies considerably in its extent and consequence ir'erineal laceration may be regarded as of four degrees: that which is limited to the anterior edge of the perineum; that which extends backwards_through the whole length of the perineum to the sphincter ani; that m which the sphincter is torn through ; that in which not only IS the sphincter torn through, but where more or less of the recto- vaginal septum is also torn. A combination of laceration and slough- ing is sometimes met with; the perineum being torn through, and the recto-vaginal septum destroyed by sloughing, from prolonged impaction of the foetal head. The fissure, directly resulting from laceration and increased by loss of the septal substance, may be com- plicated also by the subsequent formation of dense bands of imperfect cicatrix; thus presenting the most difficult form of lesion in regard to treatment. The consequences of laceration depend upon its extent. Whenever it passes beyond the anterior margin of the perineum, and especially when it involves the sphincter ani and perhaps the septum, there will be a tendency to prolapsus of the uterus and bladder, of the rectal mucous membrane, or of all these parts ; and with the latter condition, as depending on the sphincter having given way, there will also be inability to retain the f^ces—incontinence of faeces. This trouble is especially marked when the stools are loose or liquid. Treatment.—Operative interference is absolutely necessary in all degrees of perineal laceration, except that of a slight rent in the front margin of the perineum. This will, generally, heal by rest and clean- liness, with perhaps an occasional touch with nitrate of silver. The operation, in each of the other degrees of further laceration, is essentially the same ; a plastic procedure, which consists in freely paring the edges of the fissure, and bringing them together by quilled sutures, to procure union by adhesion. Prior to operation, the patient's general health should be brought into the best possible state, and any source of local irritation removed ; as these two conditions will mainly determine a successful result. The operation is then performed as follows:—The bowels having been thoroughly emptied, chloroform is administered, and the patient placed in a lithotomy position; a duck- billed speculum is passed into the vagina, so as to elevate the upper floor, and thoroughly expose the perineal fissure. This must then be freely pared throughout its depth and extent, on either side ; thus to prepare two raw surfaces, together of nearly a horseshoe shape. Im- mediate or primary operation.—This should be performed within twelve hours of the occurrence of the injury. When the opportunity for this is offered, no paring of the surface is usually necessary. But occa- sionally an irregular mass of connective tissue projects so as to inter-