740 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. urethra is always increased; measuring perhaps four inches from the orifice of the bladder to the membranous portion, instead of its normal length, one inch and a half. Its direction deviates from the natui-al passage. With enlargement of the middle lobe, the urethra rises abruptly as an angular curvature, instead of having nearly a straight line; thus presenting a complete step or " bar at the neck of the bladder " (Fig. 905), over which an instrument must be made to pass before it will enter the cavity. An outgrowth from the middle Fig. 905.* Fig. 906. f Fig. 907.$ 906) ; and which, being forced forwards in the act of micturition, more completely obstructs the passage of urine. With enlargement of either lateral lobe, in addition to that of the middle portion, the lateral direction of the prostatic urethra is also changed ; curving to the left when the right lobe is enlarged, and vice versa. (Figs. 907, 908.) The vesico-urethral orifice or opening of the bladder undergoes alterations of shape; becoming crescentic (Fig. 909), with the con- vexity turned upwards, when the middle lobe is enlarged; or turned to the left or right, according as the enlargement of the lobe on the * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2489. Enlargement of middle lobe of prostate, with two folds of thickened mucous membrane connecting it with the lateral lobes; forming a transverse bar at, or around, the posterior half of the urethral orifice. The patient was eighty years old, and had suffered many years with difficulty and frequent desire to pass water. Two attacks of retention of urine. Catheterism three or more times a day for the last three years of life, when death occurred from some intestinal disease. (Sir E. Home.) t Ibid., 2497. Enlargement of middle lobe of prostate, in the form of an ovoid and somewhat flattened projection, about two inches and a half wide, and an inch and a half deep, nearly filling the neck of the bladder, and forming a high barrier behind and above the urethral orifice. The prostatic urethra is very deep and ■wide, and bifurcates posteriorly into two channels, one on either side of the enlarged middle lobe. The patient, eighty-one years old, had long experienced inconvenience, ai\d increased frequency in voiding urine, without any surgical interference; at last retention of urine ensued, and the bladder was punctured above the pubcs. (W. Lawrence.) X Ibid., 2479. Enlargement of the riqid lateral lobe of the prostate, as a convex projection into the urethra ; with nipple-tbrra projection of the middle lobe, directed from the opposite side. Deejiening of the prostatic m-etlirii, mu\ rnrmiure; its con- cavity being turned towards the convex lateral lobe. (Sir W. Blizard.)