708 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUllGERY. fragments ; tlie instrument being withdrawn charged with more than detritus. Fragments of rather large size may thus be extracted safely- through the urethra. Having seized a fragment, the size of which may be estimated by observing the separation of the blades as indicated by the length of screw exposed at the handle of the instrument, the frag- ment is drawn to the neck of the bladder; when by a sort of slight pulling jerk with the instrument, the practicability of easily extracting it through the nrethra can be ascertained. The bladder is washed out, to remove smaller particles. This procedure of fragment-exti'action I have seen practised by Sir W. Fergusson. It is preferable, how- ever, to crush all fragments, and allow the powdered detritus to escape per urethram, according to the method of Sir H. Thompson. A final exploration of the bladder is made to determine the com- plete removal of every fragment; any one remaining portion would form the nucleus of a recurrent calculus. Civiale's method of explora- tion consists in sounding the bladder, with the patient recumbent, while the urine or tepid-water injection is flowing away ; whereby the contraction of the bladder may bring any fragment more surely within the grasp of the instrument. Should this procedure fail, a small lithoclast is introduced and rotated slowly in the bladder, while the fluid passes out through the central channel of the instrument, the blades being opened to catch the fragment. Unless there be an en- cysted bladder, or an enlarged prostate, this method of exploration usually proves successful. Otherwise, the persistence of symptoms will indicate the retention of a fragment. Certain Difficulties are liable to occur in the performance of litho- trity. They may be sufficiently anticipated and overcome by due attention to the directions given respecting the operation. Excessive Sensibility and Irritability of the Bladder, Enlargement of the Pro- state, and the Impaption of angular fragments of Stone in the Urethra, may thus severally be managed. But the latter difficulty is noticed more particularly under Calculus in the Urethra. Encysted Calculus —a stone lodged in a sacculus of the bladder—presents a specially diffi- cult complication in lithotrity, no less than in lithotomy, as with regard to seizing the stone; but in the former operation, the after- treatment may also be complicated by the impaction of a fi*agment in the sacculus, a condition which led to a fatal termination in a case treated by Sir B. Brodie. Dangers of Lithotrity.—These are referable to the state of the bladder and kidneys, induced by the operation. Hcemoi-rhage happens, sometimes, to an inconvenient amount for the free working of the instrument; though rarely to a dangerous e'ctent. In the 115 cases operated on by Sir B. Brodie, he did not meet a single example of serious loss of blood from the urinary organs. It was, however, so copious as to necessitate immediate recourse to lithotomy, in a case operated on by Mr. Key; and a patient at the Hotel Bieu, in 1832, died of hEemorrhage from the bladder. Cystitis, acute, or more frequently chronic, ensues in some cases. In 184 cases of lithotrity by Sir H. Thompson, with twelve deaths, three were due to cystitis or pyelitis. This is usually the consequence of rough or prolonged lithotrity; but it may also arise from pre- existing prostatic or vesical disease, or from the i-eteution of a frag- ment. The latter is sometimes associated with an enlarged prostate,