507 CONGENITAL HEENIA. * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mas., K. 23. middle line; so that tlie distinctive shape of the inguinal portion is lost, and the tumour comes to resemble the next form of inguinal hernia. Direct Inguinal hernia presents a tumour which differs in situation, and somewhat in shape and size, from that of the oblique hernia. This direct variety is situated at the external abdominal ring, near the root of the penis, the outer portion of the inguinal canal remaining un- occupied ; the tumour is more globular, not pyriform as in the obHque, and it has a wider neck ; usually, it is not so large. The other symp- toms are similar; but, when strangulation occurs, I have noticed that the pain caused i)j even moderate taxis is greater than in the oblique form of hernia; and as arising, apparently, from pressure of the tumour on the spermatic cord in the unyielding angle between the pubic crest and the external pillar of the abdominal ring. The proportionate frequency of the two forms of inguinal hernia may be remembered in connection with their diagnosis. Direct inguinal hernia is met with far less frequently; Cloquet esti- mating the proportion at one to five oblique hemise, or twenty per cent.; or in only ten per cent., accord- ing to Hesselbach's computation. Both varieties of inguinal hernia may coexist in the same individual; or double inguinal hernia, one on either side, is occasionally met with. Not unfrequently, the hernia on one side is incomplete— a bubonocele ; and on the opposite side, an ordinary complete inguinal hernia—a scrotal hernia. In one case, a double inguinal hernia occurred on the same side, forming an anterior and a posterior sac; the spermatic cord lying behind the latter and the lower portion of the anterior sac. (See Fig. 772.) Congenital Hernia.—This variety of oblique inguinal hernia was first noticed by Haller in 1749, and its nature was more particularly described by John Hunter and Percival Pott. The peculiar structural condition is this : the visceral protrusion lies in the tunica vaginalis, with, and in contact with, the testicle, when that organ has previously descended from the abdomen into the scrotum. The course, coverings, and relations of the hernia are the same as those of the ordinary oblique, except that the sac is the tunica vaginalis, and the relation of the testis is immediate, it being within the sac although the situation of that body, as lying below and somewhat behind the hernial contents—not the fundus of the sac—remains un- altered. But it is possible for the hernia to descend even below the testis, leaving that body behind it. (Fig. 790.) The visceral protrusion passes down from the abdomen, through the vaginal process of peri- toneum which connects the peritoneal cavity with the tunica vaginalis ; this process having remained unobliterated after birth, instead of closing as usual in about three weeks or a month. Paletta states that nor- mally, the complete closure of the vaginal canal takes place from the twentieth to the thirtieth day after birth. But when the canal remains pervious, although the tendency to this hernia thus dates from