SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 112 FiQ. 556. Crimea, amputations of the forearm were fatal in the ratio of only 7, and those of the arm 19, per cent. At Gay's Hospital, according to Mr. Bryant's statistical results, the ratio of fatal traumatic amputa- tions of the forearm and arm was 16 and 22 per cent.; thus almost exactly equalling the proportionate mortality during the American War. And this comparative result was in Civil and Military practice respectively. An arUfidal arm may be adapted to the stump ; and of the various forms invented, the best construction is Van Petersen's, if the stump be long and mobile (Fig. 653) ; or the less costly arm invented by Count de Beaufort. (Pig. 654.) Amputation at the Shoulder-joint.—An assistant standing above the shoulder, compresses the subclavian artery as it passes over the first rib; or, if he know the Fig. 555. operation practically, he may be trusted to catch the artery with his thumbs in the inner flap. Another assistant holds the arm up so as to relax the deltoid muscle. The Surgeon —operating on the left arm— introduces a long-bladed am- putating knife at the posterior border of the axilla, and pass- ing it in front of the joint, makes it emerge at the an- tex'ior border of the deltoid muscle, about an inch below the point of the acromion; cut- ting downwards and outwards, a large flap is formed chiefly of the deltoid muscle and skin. (Fig. 655.) This flap is raised by an assistant at the shoulder, and the arm brought down towards the front of the chest; thus presenting the head of the humerus and muscles attached to the tuberosity. Running the knife across the joint, these are divided, with the capsular ligament, and the knife turned to the inner side of the joint, followed by the hand of an- other assistant ready to com- press the artery. The arm is again raised to give freedom in making the flap, and the knife carried downwards close to the bone, forming an inner flap cor- responding to the outer one; while at this moment the assistant in charge grasps the whole thickness of the inner flap with both hands, between his lingers and thumbs crosswise (Fig. 556), and catches the artery as it is divided. If this be done dexterously very little blood