MALFOEMATIONS OF THE PENIS. 803 the skin and mncons membrane. Perfect patency is thus given to the orifice, which has a long, oval form; and after cicatrization has finished, there remains a free opening into the urethral canal, and no mechanical aid will be required. This procedure is applicable also when contraction has taken place from cicatrization after amputation ; tliereby sparing much trouble and pain in endeavouring to effect dilatation. I have accomplished the same result, by simply inclining the bistoury forwards, in performing the amputation; so as to make ;m oblique, oval aperture of the urethral termination. After amputation of the penis, the stream of urine is projected downwards between the legs ; and this inconvenience may be avoided, as Pare suggested, by wearing a short funnel, adapted to the pubes over the stump, whereby the urine is carried away from the person. The results of amputation of this organ for cancer have been tolerably successful; especially as regards the epithelial form of the disease. In several instances no return has taken place, even for years; six, eight, ten, or twenty. The disease may, however, return ; either in the stump, or in the inguinal glands. The latter may admit of extirpation. Tumours, of a non-malignant nature, occasionally form in the penis. Thus, fibro-plastic growth in the prepuce has been known to occur, invading the corpus cavernosum; and nccvus under the prepuce. Malformations.—(1.) Deficiency of a portion of the urethra, laying open the canal from the external meatus, is a not uncommon malfor- mation. It is a congenital condition by arrest of development. Hypospadias, the most frequent form, is that condition wherein the under part or fl.oor of the urethra is wanting; to the extent usually of the glans, or sometimes as far back as the root of the penis. Through this under fissure, the urine is passed somewhat inconveniently, and the semen is ejected in an unsatisfactory manner during sexual inter- course. When the fissure passes some way back, it may be imprac- ticable to eject the semen into the vagina. Epispadias signifies the opposite condition: that wherein the upper part or roof of the urethra is wanting, to a variable extent from the meatus, together with a corresponding portion of the glans and of the mesial junction of the corpora cavernosa. The upper fissure is, perhaps, more open than an under fissure; but epispadias is usually less extensive, unless in connection with extroversion of the bladder, and it is certainly a much less common form of urethral deficiency. In a slight case, the Surgeon may well assure an anxious parent that the boy will probably make as good a man as the father. (2.) Absence of the Urethra is occasionally met with, as in extrover- sion of the bladder; or the canal may be obliterated in a portion of its course, or occluded merely by a membranous diaphragm, generally near the vesical orifice ; or there may be a second meatus;—a variety of hypospadias, usually about an inch behind the site of the normal one; of which malformation I have seen an instance. Treatment.—As a rule, it will be best to leave these urethral mal- formations alone; any such defect probably not having much func- tional importance, and being little improved by any operative pro- cedure. When, however, the urethral deficiency exists to an extent which practically renders the person impotent, the hypospadias or