( 599 ) THE GENITO-UEINARY ORGANS. CHAPTER LXI. IXJUEIES OP THE BLADDER—URTNART DEPOSITS AND CALCULI—STONE IN THE BLADDER—LITHOTOMY AND LITHOTKITY. The Genito-Urinary Organs comprise the kidneys, ureters, bladder, prostate gland, urethra, penis, scrotum, and testis,—in the male; the uterus and ovaries, the vagina and vulva,—the organs of generation m the female. Of'these organs the kidney, in respect to its diseases, falls within the allotted province of Medicine, and incidental notice only will be taken of the ureter in this work. But the Student in Surgery must equally study diseases of the kidney as part of the pathology of the urinary system. Surgical Anatomt of the Bladder, Prostate Gtland,. and Urethra. The Bladder, Prostate Oland, and Urethra are so often, the scene of various operative procedures, that a Surgical view of the Anatomy of these Organs—as to their structure, position, and re- lative connections—will advantageously lead the Student to a clearer and more correct apprehension of the diagnosis and treatment of their injuries and diseases. To the Practitioner also, such an introduction to this subject may prove serviceable for reference to that anatomical knowledge, which he must carry with him in the practice of this department of Surgery. Urinary Bladder.—Structtt/re.—The bladder is a musculo-mem- branous bag or sac, and is richly endowed with blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves—sympathetic and spinal. Situated in the pelvic cavity, but during childhood partly in the abdomen, this organ is placed behmd the pubes and triangular ligament, in front of the rectum or of the uterus and vagina, which in the female separate the bladder from the bowel. This hollow organ communicates with the ureters and the urethra, its physiological function being that of a reservoir for the urine, which, as secreted by the kidneys, is received through the ureters and retained, until from time to time convenience may permit of the voluntary discharge of that fluid through the urethral canal. I proceed to a more detailed description of the organ and its relations, as thus defined. The bladder may be regarded as essentially a hollow expansion of mucous membrane continuous with that of the ureters behind and the urethra in front; the external surface of this sac is overlaid with bands of muscular fibres, the unstripped and involuntary variety, dis- posed in figure-of-eight spiral loops, vertically, obliquely, and hori- zontally ; * springing, for the most part, from the neck of the bladder— * Original Dissections by J. Bell Pettigrew, Museum Roy. Coll. of Surgeons, Eng., and same authority, "On the Muscular Arrangement of the Bladder and Urethra," etc., " Wiil. Traus.," 18(J7.