INGUINAL HERNIA. 505 artery occnrs comparatively rarely; its position maybe shifted upwards on the trunk of the external iliac, from the level of Poupart's ligament, as high as two inches and a half above it; or the vessel may arise from another source,—the obturator; or from below the ligament, being transferred to the superficial or the deep femoral artery. Of these abnormal sources of the epigastric artery, the first has no relation to the internal abdominal ring; the two latter may have special relation to the crural ring, and therefore to femoral hernia. Seat of Stricture.—Commonly, the stricture is situated at the mouth of the sac, in the internal abdominal ring ; next in order of frequency at the border of the internal oblique muscle, in the inguinal canal; lastly, at the external abdominal ring. Direct Inguinal Hkrnia.—Gourse.—This variety of inguinal hernia comes forward through a small triangular space, bounded by the epi- FiG. 787.* Fig. 788.t gastric artery externally, the margin of the rectus muscle on the inner side, and Poupart's ligament—its inner portion— below. (Pig- 787.) This space is situ- ated just behind the external abdominal ring, the conjoined tendon and fascia transversalis intervening. Anatomical Coverings, and Relations.—In number the coverings are the same as those of the oblique variety, and in kind they are the same, with one exception ; the conjoined tendon is substituted for the cremas- teric fascia. Thus, enumerating them in the order of hernial development, the coverings of direct inguinal hernia are—peritoneal pouch or sac, sub-serous cellular tissue, fascia transversalis, conjoined tendon, some- times ruptured, intercolumnar fascia, superficial fascia, skin. The sper- matic cord lies on the outer side of the sac, the testicle below the fundus, and both are distinctly separate; the epigastric artery also courses up external to the mouth of the sac, curving over it inwards, so as some- times to embrace the upper as well as the outer margin. (Pig. 788.) * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., R. 62. Direct inguinal hernia, which has not yet descended through the external abdominal ring; the hernia thus being incomplete, or a bubonocele. The cord lies on the outer side of the sac. t Ibid., R. 59. Direct inguinal hernia; showing the epigastric artery passing up- wards and inwards on the outer side of the neck of the sac, between it and the internal ring.