167 INJURIES OF THE BRAIN CONCUSSION. Symptoms.—The symptoms of concussion of the brain are, essen- flallv loss of consciousness—comY>vising a suspension of all the functions \f the brain, as the direct and immediate effect of the injury. Ihe nerson is stunned. Three degrees of this state are now commonly recognized—(1.) Slight concussion ; with momentary loss of sensibility and muscular power; and with depression of the circulation, as denoted br a feeble, but commonly regular and rapid, pulse at the wrist. These symptoms soon pass off; the person comes to again, and pro- ceeds about his business as if nothing had happened, retaining, often, , no knowledge of the injury. (2.) Complete insensibility; the patient lying motionless, pallid, and cold, the pulse being scarcely perceptible, usually, also, slow and intermittent. The pupils of the eyes vary very much, being contracted or sometimes dilated; or one contracted and the other dilated. The urihe and fteces are sometimes voided involun- - tarily. This state having continued for a period of longer or shorter . duration, imperfect insensibility returns; the patient can be roused to answer a question with bewilderment of manner, and then relapses ; vomitino- supervenes as a symptom of recovery, and the symptoms of , concussion gradually pass off in a few hours or days. Headache, con- ' fusion, and giddiness remain, or symptoms of intra-cranial inflammation • supervene. (3.) Complete insensibility, and the pulse invpercephhle. : No reaction foUows, and death takes place in a few minuites or a few hours. . Temperature, as affected by injuries of the bram, would seem_ to ; afford an important symptom, considering the known physiological influence of the nerve-centres in the production of animal heat. But the fall of temperature is no measure of the amount of brain-lesion. In simple concussion, half an hour after such injury, the temperature has fallen to 93-5 degrees, according to Mr. Le Gros Clark's observa- tions; yet the patient recovered. This reduction of temperature_ con- trasts with the maintenance of heat, under compression of the brain. The diagnosis of concussion and compression of the brain will be considered in connection with the latter state. The cause of cerebral concussion is, of course, external violence, applied directly to the head, as by a blow or fall; or indirectly, by transmission through some other part of the body, as when a person falling from a height alights on his feet. Consequences.—Intra-cranial extravasation of blood is, perhaps, the most immediate occasion of peril, during reaction from cerebral con- cussion. Thence the symptoms of compression are apt to supervene. Passive extravasation, arising generally from injury of the smaller meningeal arteries or of some of the venous sinuses, is characterized by haemorrhage, recurring from time to time, and a very insidious deve- lopment of symptoms. Occasional attacks of headache, with the sensa- tion of a rushing sound in the head, are accompanied with dilatation, and sluggish, irregular action of the pupils, and a remarkably slow pulse, which may never have regained its natural frequency, during reaction from concussion; this diminution of the pulse to sixty or even forty beats per minute having a marked relation to the attacks of headache. At length, delirium, convulsions, and coma succeed as symptoms of compression, which soon proves fatal. Superficial and slight extravasation may not give rise to these symptoms, but remain as an exciting cause of cerebral inflammation. Inflamviation of the