57 EXCISION OF THE TARSAL BONES. The operatiou is thus performed :—The patient lying on tis face, with the sole of the foot uppermost, an incision, with a stout bistoury, may be commenced at the calcaneo-cuboid articulation, just above the sole of the foot, and carried backwards round the lieel, forwards, to an equal point on the inner side. The sole-flap of integument is raised forwards from the under surface of the os calcis, and in its whole thickness down to the bone, so as to form a good cushion ; a slight perpendicular incision is made, opposite the tendo-Achilhs, into this horizontal incision, and with a little reflection of the integunient to either side, the tendon is severed from its insertion. The knife is then entered posteriorly, over the upper surface of the os calcis, and the strong interosseous ligament connecting it with the astragalus is divided, somewhat as an oyster is opened; the bone can then be raised, and its lateral attachments being cleared by a gentle application of the knife, the calcaneo-cuboid articulation is opened, and the bone com- pletely detached. Or, an incision may be made, as for Syme's amputation at the ankle-joint, and a heel-flap having been formed, the os calcis is exposed,' lateral incisions are continued, on either side, along the Sole of the foot to the line of the calcaneo-cuboid articulation, whereby a short soZe-flap is reflected forwards; and the operation completed as before. The objection to this plan of excision is the liability to sloughing of the heel-flap, in disease of the os calcis; fistulous openings frequently having formed posteriorly, where the flap is attached. The advantage of a heel-flap is that the excision can be readily converted into Syme's amputation, in the event of the astragalus being found to be extensively involved. This method, therefore, was recommended by Mr. Teale, and practised by Mr. Page, as a precautionary proceeding in excision of the OS calcis. Apart from the contingency of sloughing, I prefer the sole-flap method of excision, as affording a more free access to the os calcis. (3.) Excision of the Os Oalds and Astragalus—Wakley's Operation— is performed much in the same manner as the second method of ex- cision of the OS calcis alone. The only differences are: an additio7ial incision between the malleoli posteriorly, curving down to the insertion of the tendo-Achillis, so as to expose the astragalus, on raising this- flap of integument; and that the integument of the heel between this incision and the incision across the heel, from malleolus to malleolus, forming the heel-flap in the other operation, is here removed. The bones are excised through the gap thus made posteriorly, by dividing the tendon and lateral ligaments; lateral incisions being continued along the foot to the line of the calcaneo-cuboid and astragalo-scaphoid articulations, so as to give access to these articulations. The malleoli are removed with bone-nippers. The posterior tibial artery must be ligatured, but the anterior tibial is avoided by very cautiously using the knife, in removing the astragalus in front of the tibia. This excision would probably meet the diflB.culty of disease extend- ing uj) to the ankle-joint, and, in such case, prove a substitute for Syme's amputation at the ankle-joint. The operation was performed by Mr. Wakley, at the Royal Free Hospital, in December, 1847, and the case is reported in the Lancet of July, 1848. But I am not aware that this operation has ever been repeated. Besulls.—Of partial excision of os calcis, in 42 cases co.llected by