771 OBGANIC STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. with the point of any instrument in its course through the urethra. The passage, therefore, usually takes a direction downwards and back- wards, and to one side of the urethral passage ; in an opposite direction to the stream of urine, the free discharge of which remains unaffected. An inflexible instrument, as the ordinary silver catheter, will be more apt to cause this misadventure than a flexible instrument; but the latter is more liable to enter a false passage already existino-. ' The previous existence of such a passage or passages''is perhaps the most common and perplexing occasion of difficulty in usino- an instrument; and its production, an accident most to be avoided. '^The importance of these considerations in relation to catheterism,'lies in the fact tha,t the difficulty of entering the right opening is increased by the facility with which the instrument slips into the wrong one. _A false passage varies in its situation and extent. When the stricture is far forwards, the passage may run into the corpus spon- giosum ; when further backwards, in the usual situation, the passao-e may perforate either lateral lobe of the prostate (Fig. 920) or run up between it and the rectum (Fig. 921); this latter direction being espe- cially dangerous. The floor of the urethra is most commonly the seat ot a false passage; and it is most liable to happen in connection with a tight stricture, and the introduction of a small-sized instrument Fig. 920.* Fig. 921.t Hence, in the treatment of such a stricture more particularly, and when it has been subjected to I the previous use of instruments, an important [practical injunction in passing the catheter is ithis-the point of the instrument should be kept against the roof or nipper surface of the urethral canal. ^ Certain signs at once indicate to the Surgeon that a false passao-e lhas been commenced, or entered if pre-existing. The po nt^of tie ans rument is fdt to make a sudden slip, and the'shaft inclines to one .side of the urethra; the point also feels free and movable, and com! * Surg. Mus., 2.508. (Liston.)