SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGKRY. 338 by pressure, as it should be borne in mind that a good deal of swelling generally follows, and, if the edges be drawn too closely together, their mutual pressure will hazard the occurrence of primary union. (Fig! 702.) In cases where the cleft extends into the hard palate, it will be necessary, in addition to the steps already mentioned, to adopt one or other of the two methods about to be described, in order to bring the edges together. If the gap in the hard palate be not too wide or exten- sive, the whole cleft may be closed at one operation. The first method— introduced by Dr. Warren, of Boston, but known most generally as Langenbeck's operation—consists in separating the mucous and peri- osteal tissue from the bone, by entering a curved blunted instrument, called a raspatory (Fig. 703), through a short incision made down to the bone, close to the alveolar ridge on either side of the cleft. By carefully manosuvring the instrument, the soft tissues covering the hard palate may be so loosened as to be readily drawn to the median line with sutures. The bleeding is sometimes smart, and care should be taken not to wound the posterior palatine artery. In very severe cases of cleft, and where the tissue covering the bone is extremely thin, this method frequently fails; and it was this failure that induced the late Sir WiUiam Fergusson, in 1873, to Fig. 703. Fig; 704. practise osteotomy, which in his skil- ful hands was attended with very successful results. It seems, how- ever, that this operation was not novel, as Dieffenbach in 1845 sug- gested a somewhat similar plan, which, however, had but little trial, and still less success, on the continent. The following is a brief description of the operation of osteotomy, as performed by Sir William Fergusson. The edges of the cleft having been pared, and the palate muscles divided, one or two holes, according to the length of the fissure, are bored through the bone on either side, exactly opposite each other, with a small brad-awl, about one-eighth of an inch from the margin. (Fig. 704.) Through these holes threads (waxed silk is best) are passed, in the manner previously described, but are not drawn tight. A series of punctures through the bone is next made near the alveolar ridge (Fig. 704^, parallel to the edge of the