74 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUROERY. The ends of the radius and ulna are now made to protrude, from the ulnar incision, by everting the hand; and according to their state of caries on examination, the articular surfaces only, or a larger portion of the bones, should be excised. The head of the ulna may be sawn obliquely, removing the articular surface, but leaving the styloid process, and the ulna, therefore, of the same length as the radius ; a provision for the subsequent symmetry and steadiness of the hand, as the angular interval between the bones becomes filled up by fresh ossific deposit. The end of the radius is then excised, by sawing o£E a thin slice, parallel to the general direction of the inferior articular surface. In doing this, the tendons in their grooves on the dorsal aspect of the bone need not be disturbed; it is sufficient to remove the bevelled ungrooved part of the bone-end, and thus the extensor secundi internodii pollicis may never come into view. This may .seem a refinement; but the freedom with which the thumb and fingers can be extended, even within a day or two after the operation; when this point is attended to, shows its importance. The articular facet on the ulnar side of the radius is then clipped ofi with bone-nippers, applied longitudinally. In excising the ends of the ulna and radius successively, it is far better to take away too much bone than too little; a useful hand resulting in spite of very extensive excision. The lases of the metacarpal hones must then be examined and excised, saving as much bone as possible, but clipping off their articular surfaces transversely and laterally; even, when necessary, drilling the shaft into a hollow tube. The second and third bones are most easily reached from the radial incision, the fourth and fifth from the ulnar side. Next, the trapezium is seized with a strong pair of forceps and dissected out, carefully avoiding the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, which lies firmly bound into the groove on the palmar aspect of this bone, and turning the knife close to the bone elsewhere to avoid wounding the radial artery. Having removed the trapezium, the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb is pushed up and its articular surface clipped off ; thus preventing the risk of recurrent disease, and reducing the thumb in length to the same extent as the fingers. Lastly, the pisiform bone should be examined, and its articular surface clipped off; the rest of the bone is left, if sound, as it retains the insertion of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and gives attachment to the anterior annular ligament; if unsound, the bone must be removed entirely. In this operation, the extensors of the carpus are the only tendons necessarily divided ; the flexor carpi radialis escapes, being connected with the second metacarpal bone below its base, and the flexor carpi ulnaris is left attached to the pisiform bone. All the flexors and extensors of the fingers, and all the extensors of the thumb, should be uninjured, and undisturbed beyond what is absolutely necessary for the operation of excision. On removing the tourniquet, any haemorrhage can be readily arrested by torsion or ligature. The radial incision is closed by sutures, and also the ulnar incision at its ends, leaving the middle portion open for the introduction of lint to allow free exit of the purulent discharge which necessarily follows. The hand is placed on a suitable splint, extending up the forearm, and secured by a bandage. The most convenient form is an ordinary