INFLAMMATION AND RECTAL ABSCESS. 657 CHAPTER LX. I DISEASES, INJURIES, AND MALFOKMATIONS OB THE RECTUM AND ANUS. Diseases of the Rectum and Anus pertain to tlie terminal portion of the large intestine, in its limited course of six or eight inches from the left sacro-iliac articulation to the anal orifice in the perineum. Surgically considered, the rectum might almost be said to have a more limited extent,—in regard to its liability to disease. At its com- mencement, the bowel inclines downwards and inwards to the middle of the sacrum; thence it curves forwards in front of this bone and the coccyx,—behind the bladder, vesiculse seminales, and prostate, in the male, or the cervix uteri and vagina, in the female; and opposite the tip of the coccyx, or the prostate anteriorly, it inclines downwards and backwards to the anus,—leaving an interval between this portion of the bowel and the membranous part of the urethra and its bulb. It is in these two latter portions of the gut, or in about the lower half of its whole extent, that most rectal affections are congregated; and they derive some additional importance from the relative position of the bladder and prostate gland. Diseases thus crowded together, maybe most conveniently arranged according to their pathological association and diagnosis, observing also their order of frequency in the practice of this branch of Surgery. Affections of the rectal tube and of its anal aperture will, therefore, be considered as follows :—Inflammation and Rectal Abscess ; Fistula in Ano; Ulcer of the Rectum, and Fissure of the Anus ; Hemorrhoids— external, internal, and Prolapsus of the Rectum; Polyp as of the Rectum ; Stricture of the Rectum—Simple, Cancerous; Rectal Fistula, —Vesical, Vaginal; Anal Tumours ; Anal Contraction; Injuries; Foreign Bodies; Congenital Malformations ; Functional Disorders. Inflammation and Rectal Abscess.—In the loose cellular texture around the rectum, and particularly in that of the ischio-rectal fossa on either side of the anus, inflammation is very apt to occur, and speedily pass into suppuration. According to the situation of the abscess thus formed, it is more or less deep-seated or superficial; but in either case, the matter has a tendency to burrow upwards in the direction of least restraint,—the pelvic cellular tissue leading from the ischio-rectal fossa, beneath the levator ani muscle, rather than towards the thick and unyielding integument continued from the buttock over the fossa. The symptoms of rectal abscess are, not unfrequently, indistinct. Pain is felt in the fundament, more especially on passing a motion, and if the fseces be hard and irritating. The pain has the usual throbbing character when matter forms; though sometimes this takes place with- out scarcely any sensation, but that of a dull aching weight as matter accumulates. Hence, two varieties of abscess may be recognized, the acute and the chronic. In both, there will be some tenderness 'on pressure, on one side of the anus ; swelling also sooner or later becomes apparent, which is hard and brawny, though perhaps softer at one