129 AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. drawing wards tlu-ough shorter Fig. 592 * opened from the inner side by drawing the knife firmly across, when, yfith. a touch on the round ligament, the assistant depressing the limb, the bone starts from its socket. The blade is then Fig. 591. laid on, about its middle, behind the head of the fe- mur, the remainder of the capsule divided, and by the knife down- and backwards the muscles, a posterior flap is fashioned to meet the an- terior one. The artery and any muscular branches hav- ing been secured, and the large cavity well sponged with cold water, the two flaps are brought together with sutures, and a large compress applied. On the right limb, the operation is the same, only that the knife is entered in the reverse directions; namely, just above the tuberosity of the ischium. (Fig. 592.) This method of amputation at the hip-joint, by anterior and posterior flaps, is substantially the same as that recommended by Listen. By the same mode of opera- tion, also, the femur can be sawn through below the trochanters, in fracture of the shaft high up, or disease affecting the shaft be- low ; thus leaving the head and neck of the bone, with ample flaps to cover. I have ampu- tated just below the hip-joint for disease of the femur, consequent on typhoid fever, and with an excellent stump resulting. The above-described amputation will have to be modified by various conditions of injury necessitating the operation, but which require its adaptation to the state of the integuments, as affected by the extent of contusion and the situation of wounds. The flaps must be contrived so as to meet these difficulties. In a case of "severe compound comminuted fracture of the right femur," for which I had to perform amputation at the hip-joint, the operation was modified by the state of the integuments. The particu- lars of this operation were well reported, in the " British Medical Journal," by Mr. C. S. Jeafferson, then senior house surgeon to the Hospital. The margin of the wounded integuments was obliged to be * The knife is represented as transfixing the thigh in the posterior, instead of tlie anterior, line of flap. VOL. II.