475 IIKRNIA. various numerical records. Thus, from a collection of cases by Mr. Bryant, we find that in 52 of inguinal hernia, all were males ; but of 65 femoral, 13 only were males, and the remaining much larger pro- portion, 52, were females. Of 8 umbilical hernioD, however, 6 occurred in males. , j. ,i t n j^^e. Dilferences of opmion prevail respecting the liability con- nected with the period of life. According to Malgaigne, hernia is less frequent before the age of 35 years than after that period; Birkett affirms that, taking all varieties of heroia in both sexes, the majority are developed before 35 years of age. By reference to statistics out of 2343 cases recorded by Malgaigne ("L'Union Medicale, 1854), 555 or 23-6 per cent., were under 35 years of age, and 1788, or 76-4 per'cent., above that age. On the contrary, out of 9296 cases re- corded by Mr. Kingdon, 5659, or 60-8 per cent., had commenced before the age of 35 years, and 3637, or 39-2 per cent., after that age. The oreat discrepancy between these results is easily explained; the one series records the ages of the patients at the time of observation, the other had reference to the ages when the hernia was first noticed— the essential element in estimating the relation of period of life to hernial protrusion. Age in relation to the situation of Hernia.—It appears from Mr, Bryant's collection of cases, 126, that with regard to inguinal hernia, twenty to forty years of age is the period when the rupture most fre- quently commences; that in femoral hernia these ages are compara- tively rare, and that generally it begins between fifty and seventy years of age. Age in relation to Sex.—The proportion between males and females, subject to Hernia, varies considerably at different periods of life, owing to congenital predisposition. According to Mr. Eangdon's statistics for 1860-61, in the first five years of life, the proportion was 1409 males, and only 107 females; while in the five years from twenty-five to thirty years of age, the ratio had changed to 846 males against 207 females. Hereditary influence.—The children of ruptured parents are fre- quently affected in like manner. Both sexes evince an equal tendency to be thus influenced, in about the proportion of thirty-four per cent. This influence, paternal, maternal, or from both parents, is manifested ' mostly in infants under one year ; the proportion being about twelve per cent, of the whole number under that age. This fact is referable, apparently, to an arrested closure of the vaginal process of peritoneum, or of its ventral orifice,—^in regard to inguinal Hernia ; and also to an abnormal elongation of the mesentery; both of which, as congenital structural conditions, are probably much influenced by hereditary conformation. Occupation.—All persons are liable to hernia; but the labouring class is most subject, seemingly, however, irrespective of any particular trade or occupation. Comparing the twenty-five largest classes of occupation, arranged in the order of their magnitude from the census of 1851, with the numbers of each class who applied to the Truss Society during three successive years, Mr. Kingdon finds that the number of such patients bears a direct proportion to the numerical magnitude of the classes to which they respectively belong, and not to the severity of the toil.