SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. thus formed; but I doubt whether the ultimate conservation of the 820 fine hole be drilled in the pulp-cavity, entering the tooth just beneath the margin of the gum, so that food may not easily get into it and close it up, such a tooth will often remain comfortable for years. This operation is called " Rhizodontropy," and is useful in certain cases; it is, however, only a compromise, much inferior to complete fang-filling, and is to be regarded as a last resource prior to extraction. Alveolar periostitis and abscess may lead to other untoward results, such as suppuration in the antrum, necrosis more or less extensive, fistulous openings on the face which may involve a salivary duct, etc. Abscess of the Antrum is, in the vast majority of instances, due to alveolar abscess involving the root of a tooth, which either pierces the bony wall, or at all events comes into very close proximity with the cavity of the antrum. The first and second molars and the second bicuspid have their roots close to the floor of the antrum in almost all cases, but the antrum being variable both in form and size, the canines may also reach up to it; the points of the roots may actually pierce the bone, and be covered only by its mucous lining. Alveolar abscess, excavating out a cavity in the bone, may enter the antrum even when it originates about a lateral or central incisor, so that any tooth whatever may be concerned in the mischief. The symptoms are a considerable amount of dull, wearing pain, often accompanied by neuralgic pains over the whole side of the head ; tenderness of the cheek, especially over the canine fossa, and eventually oedema. Sometimes there is feverishness, sometimes not. The pain, tenderness, and swelling are much greater than are apparently ac- counted for by the condition of any tooth found to be affected. Some- times the discharge, which is apt to be very offensive, makes its way into the nose, and may find its way out at the nostril or backwards into the throat. That it does not more often find its way out by the normal orifice of the antrum is believed by Otto Weber to be due to the suppuration taking place, not in the cavity of the antrum, but between its mucous lining and the bone. Suppuration in the antrum may go on for a long time, both before and after the evacuation of the pus ; in the former case, the diagnosis from a solid tumour may be difficult. The walls of the antrum, when distended by fluid, yield most easily towards the canine fossa, next towards the orbit; but the great vari- ability of the antrum renders it impossible to rely much upon the relative thinness of its several walls as a means of _ diagnosis. The lachrymal duct is usually not closed, whereas in fibroid or encephaloid disease in this situation it generally is. In examining the teeth it should be remembered that not only may any dead tooth be the source of trouble, but a sound and living tooth, one or more of the roots of which are affected by absorption and exostosis (c/. page 822), sometimes causes suppuration in the antrum. The treatment of the disease consists in freely opening up the antrum. This may generally be done best by extracting the offend- ing tooth, and enlarging, if necessary, the opening thus formed. If there is no tooth at the root of the mischief, the first molar is the best to extract for this purpose. Dr. Bogue, of New York, successfully treated a case of long standing by drilling through a tooth and its roots up into the antrum, and syringing the cavity through the cauKl