URINARY-VAGINAL AND UTERINE FISTULiE. 795 the woman is placed either on her side, with the knees well drawn up, or in the usual lithotomy position. The parts being thoroughly ex- posed by a duck-bill speculum (Fig. 937), and the nates being held widely apart by an assistant, the operator proceeds to drag the opening as low down as possible, with a view to facilitate the paring of the edges. This may be accomplished either by hooks, blunt or sharp ; by means of a metal suture; or by the introduction of a flexible sound through the urethra, which is brought out again through the fistula, and then bent backwards. This latter plan furnishes the Surgeon with a most efficient hook, and one which cannot easily slip. In parino- the edges, it is necessary thoroughly to denude every part; for if the smallest portion of mucous membrane be left, it may prevent union. None of the mucous membrane of the bladder must be removed. The wound should present a bevelled oblique line, slanting from a large vaginal opening to a smaller vesical one. The denudation being com- plete and free, sutures are next to be introduced. These should be passed obliquely from at least a third of an inch outside the edge of the incision. They must not include the mucous membrane of the bladder. The tightening and tying of wire sutures is easily accomplished by the fingers. Care must be taken not to pull them too tight, so as to invert the edge of the vaginal mucous membrane. 4/^er-treatment is simple. The small, double-curved silver catheter, invented by Dr. Sims, or an ordinary gam-elastic one, should be passed and retained unplugged, that the urine may continuously drain out of the bladder. This should be constantly watched ; and the instrument cleansed and then re-introduced twice a day. The patient must lie on her side, with the knees drawn up, and her general health be well sus- tained. It is of the utmost consequence to prevent the action of the bowels for at least a week; and this may be accomplished by adminis- tering a full dose of opium soon after the operation, and maintaining its influence^ subsequently by smaller doses. Dr. Sims lays much stress on this point as an element of success. The removal of the sutures prematurely is a greater evil than their unnecessary continu- ance ; they should certainly not be withdrawn before the ninth or tenth day, and then with great caution. . Urethro-vaginal fistula is more easily closed by a similar procedure ;, but union takes place less readily, owing to the unavoidable pressure of the catheter on the line of union. This I have experienced in my own operations. It is better therefore to adopt the practice now, I beheve, generally pursued; that of withdrawing the urine occasionally, by gently passing a catheter, or even to allow micturition, from time to time, without interference. Scrupulous cleanliness should of course be observed. Vesico-uterine fistula is that condition wherein the fistulous commu- nication exists between the bladder and cervix uteri. Certain modifi- cations in the plan of operation will be reqaired. It might become desirable to obliterate the upper part of the vagina, in order to connect the uterus with the bladder; thus allowing the menstrual fluid to pass through this organ, but preventing incontinence of urine These operative procedures may have to be repeated a second or third time, and even several times, in the same case; partial closure . only being effected in the first instance, and afterwards more and more -completely. Such temporary failure, however, will not weary the