TUMOURS OP THE BLADDER. 723 growth appears as a soft, flocculent body, about the size of a large marble when fully developed. Several such tumours may coexist, giving to the interior of the bladder a studded, villous appearance. The structural identity of the villi with those of the chorion in a healthy state is remarkable. The symptoms are not peculiar, either with regard to obstruction or the presence of a foreign body in th.e bladder. But the pain and vesical irritability are much aggravated ; and the abundant, oft-recur- ring draining haemorrhage, or bloody urine, distinguishes this species of growth from polypus. Shreds of th.e tumour are also apt to appear in the urine, which examined by the microscope, will confirm the diagnosis. The treatment is palliative, as for polypus. Astringent injections may perhaps be used, as weak solutions of acetate of lead or nitrate of silver; and astringents taken internally, as gallic acid, may prove serviceable in arresting tbe tendency to hemorrhage. Tonics, especially iron and quinine, with a nutritious diet, will be requisite to support the patient under the exhaustion resulting from long-continued pain, irritability of the bladder, and hsemorrhage. The introduction of any instrument must be avoided as much as possible ; sounding is less effective in the diagnosis of a growth so soft and flocculent; cathe- terism aggravates the pain and irritation, and may provoke bleeding ; while the removal of a villous growth would be equally hazardous and ineffectual. Cancer of the bladder is more common than the last-named species of growth. It may be primary, com- mencing in the bladder; or secondary. Fig. gg?.* extending from the prostate, the rectum, or the uterus. The species is most fre- quently encephaloid (Fig. 897), and usu- ally so when originating in the bladder, always of this kind when spreading from the prostate; scirrJms, when spreading from the rectum or the uterus, or epithe- lial cancer from the latter organ. Col- loid is more rare; but in post-mortem examination I have met with this species of cancer occupying the whole interior of the bladder, as a semi-transparent, greenish-yellow, trembling mass of jelly ; as if the organ were fully distended with urine. Similar colloid deposits were found in the uterus and rectum, and in most of the abdominal viscera. ' Symptoms.—The pain of cancer in the bladder is very severe, but scarcely ever lancinating; and is referred to the lower part of the belly, to the loins, hips, thighs, and perineum. Vesical irritability is so active, that the urine is ejected every few minutes ; and when ulcera- _ * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2003. A medullary cancer, of spheroidal shape, occupy- ing nearly the whole cavity of the bladder, between four and five inches in diam^-ter • the burface is lobulated and slightly fissured. The muscular coat of the bladder is thickened, but the portion of mucous membrane not covered by the growth appeared healthy. From an old man; with signs of the tumour, of long duration. 1 he deep inguinal glands" presented a very hard tumour, some weeks before aeath. (L. Foakes.)