629 URINARY DEPOSITS. shape, or spherules with little claw-like projections. (See Fig. 862.) The junction of lithic acid crystals gives rise to various singular appearances. Ghemical Tests.—Heat redissolves the lithates. Hot, not to say boiling, water poured into the chamber-utensil, causes the turbidity to disappear, and thus -pio,. 862. clears the urine. But this result may be partly due to the increased proportion of solvent— water—thus added to a previou.sly concentrated urine. A small quantity of the turbid urine heated in a test-tube becomes clear, but it again becomes turbid on cooling. The deepei'- coloured urates are dissolved by a rather higher temperature than the paler varieties. Alkalies —potash or ammonia—dissolve these deposits ; acids—hydrochloric or acetic—separate uric acid, having the appearance and crystalline forms already described. A rough approximate analysis of the urates may be readily accom- plished. The uric acid having been determined in a weighed portion of the dried urate by dilute hydrochloric acid, another portion of the urate should be burnt, and, after washing the ash, tested with the blowpipe. If the base be ammonia, a very small quantity of ash only will remain. For a full analysis of the urates, they should be pre- viously examined with the microscope to ascertain whether they are free from phosphate of lime or magnesia, or oxalate of lime (Hassall). Potash may be the most abundant base, next ammonia, and last soda (Bence Jones). Lime is always present in considerable quantity (Hassall and Scherer). Magnesia is an occasional base (Robin and Verdeil). It would, therefore, appear that the term mixed urates more accu- rately designates this deposit. The proportion of uric acid is always large—over eighty per cent. (Scherer); over ninety per cent. (Bence Jones). Urea (OgH^lSTgOa) in JjRmE.—Physical Characters of Urine—Ex- cess of urea may occur, without diuresis,—the quantity of urine seldom exceeding the normal quantity, but the quantity of urea being both absolutely and relatively greater than in health ; or with diuresis,—the quantity of urine being excessive, and the quantity of urea, therefore, in a given specimen, less than in health, but the quantity, absolutely and relatively to the other constituents, greater also, in this case, than normal. Azoturia, or unreal diabetes, as the latter may be termed, although differing only in degree, is a very rare disease. The former condition of urine is, in colour, clear and pale, but occasionally assuming the appearance of porter diluted with water ; odour not pecuhar, but ammoniacal (apparently from decomposition of the urea) when not quite fresh ; specific gravity rather above the average, 1-020, but varying from I'OIS to ]-030, or even higher. Quantity about normal. Reaction acid when the urine is fresh but speedily becomes alkaline, from ammonia. A deposit of urea in crystals, soon forma by evaporation, on the addition of nitric acid lormmg the nitrate of urea. ' Microscopical Characters.—Long needle-shaped crystals, by evapo- rating a drop or two of urine on a slip of glass. Nitrate and oxalate of