^'^^ SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEEY. Upper Jaw.—Abscess of the Antrvm.—ln connection witli Dental bnrgery, abscess of the antrum lias been specially considered; but in the diagnosis and treatment of tumours of the upper jaw, the (jenera^ Surgeon must take notice of the kind of swelling presented b/ a purulent collection within the antrum. Arising from the irritation ot carious teeth, which may be in immediate relation to the antrum or unconnected with that cavity, as the incisor teeth, the disease com- mences as alveolar abscess, which bursts, directly or indirectly into the antrum. But abscess of the antrum may result from catan-hal or other inflammation of the lining membrane; or it may be of traumatic origin,—the extraction of a tooth communicating with the cavity the entrance of a foreign body, a blow on the cheek, or injury received during birth in a pubic presentation. An instance of the latter occa- sion of injury, having induced abscess of the antrum in an infant a fortnight old, is recorded by Dr. G. A. Eees, in the Medical Gazette (JN. b.), vol. iv. The sijmptoms are, at first, those simply of inflammation of the lining membrane : dull, deep-seated pain shooting up the face and to the forehead, swelling and tenderness of the cheek, with considerable fever and constitutional disturbance. A slight rigor sometimes an- nounces the formation of matter, which may find its way into the nostril, when the patient is lying on his sound side, either throuo-h the normal opening, or an opening resulting from absorption, as maintained by M. Giraldes. Generally the pus, not finding a ready exit, distends the antrum; bulging out the cheek, uplifting the floor of the orbit, depressing the hard palate, and, loosening the teeth, obstructing the nasal duct and closing the nostril. The vs^all of the cavity undergoes absorption, and becoming thinned, it yields a peculiar parchment-like crackling under pressure with the finger. The matter may burst externally, into the mouth or into the nostril; in either case con- siderable necrosis and scar will probably be the result. Treatment.—Any carious teeth or stumps must be extracted. This may be followed by a flow of pus, when the introduction of a trocar through the alveolus will completely evacuate the matter. "When all the teeth are apparently sound, the first molar tooth should be extracted, as having the deepest socket and being most liable to decay, and then the socket must be punctured. Puncturing the Antrum.—Care should be taken in using the trocar, lest it penetrate with a jerk and injure the orbital plate. The alveolus admits of being punctured above the gum, and this will be necessary m the rare case of suppuration occurring in old people, after loss of the teeth. The cavity should then be cleansed by syringing with warm water, by means of a curved canula and hydrocele elastic bottle. A slightly astringent injection may be advisable; and a weak solution of permanganate of potash or sulphate of zinc answers admirably. The entrance of any particles of food should be prevented, by plugging the aperture with cotton-wool; or, as Mr. Salter has suggested, by fitting a metal plate to the mouth, with a small tube to fill the aperture, which can be corked at pleasure and serves as a pipe for injection. In punc- turing the antrum, the possible subdivision of this cavity, owing to the existence of bony septa, will be an obviously important condition; and especially with reference to the extraction of a foreign body, as the fang of a tooth lodging in one of these subdivisions.