DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 139 tbey are embedded, constituting onycliia; or they may present chano-es analagous to those of the epidermis, of which they are a part; in this latter sense being altered in colour, figure, density, and cohesion, or distorted by accumulation of imperfectly formed cell- elements', as in the case of onycho-gryphosis. The hairs likewise may be altered in quantity, texture, and colour ; or they may undergo the change already noted in connection with the epidermis a phytiform proliferation which renders them brittle, and causes them to break off close to the head, producing the bare patches known as ringworm. In ringworm there are always stumps and roots of hairs, and the epithelium of the follicles participates m the morbid change; whereas in alopecia, and notably m alopecia areata, there exist atrophy of the skin and total absence of the hair more or less permanent. The follicles of the skin, taken as a whole, constitute an encrypted surface of very considerable importance and extent, and while it participates in the manifestion of pathological conditions common to the whole of the exterior surface, presents certain phenomena of disease which are peculiar to itself. We have already noted the hyper- emia of the follicles in erythema, eczema, lichen, ecthyma, furunculus, and the exanthematic fevers, and now we come to the consideration of their congestion and inflammation in acne and rosacea; their suppu- ration in mentagra and kerion; their dilatation in comedo, follicular tumours, and encysted tumours; their phytiform derangement_ of nutrition and growth in favus ; and the malignant transformation of their cell-tissues in epithelioma. The glandular apparatus of the skin supplies us with steatopathic and idrotopathic affections, which are one while an alteration of their secretions and another while of the structure of the glands. The sebaceous secretion may be excessive or defective, too moist or too dry, or altered in its colour; while a hypertrophic growth of the glands by pushing them above the level of the skin, so as to form small tubercles, constitutes one of the forms of molluscum, namely, M. adenosum or contagiosum. In like manner, the perspiratory secretion may be excessive or defective, altered in colour or in odour; and m rare instances the glands themselves may be inflamed and become hypertrophied, or issue in suppuration. Prognosis.—In considering the prognosis of diseases of the skin, it will be necessary to eliminate from their number—scrofiila, syphilis, cancer, and elephantiasis. The prognosis of these affections is the prognosis of the parent disease ; and yet in these diseases there arises the distinction between that which is hereditary or inherent, such as scrofula and cancer, and that which is accidental, e.g., syphilis and elephantiasis. With regard to the remainder of cutaneous affections, it may be said that they are more vexatious than dangerous, and that a fatal tendency, wherever it prevail, lies in the constitution of the individual, and not in the disease itself. They are remarkable for their tediousness, and they make a demand on the constitution for a considerable amount of endurance; but when the enduring power is •weak, and the vitality of the individual low, they naturally tend to shorten the continuance of life. In a tedious case of eczema, it is not the pathological affection that we have to contend with, but the feeble energy of the powers of the constitution. In another very chronic