SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 594 the discharge of feculent fluid through the urethra, the vagina, or an external hstulous opening, will be severally diagnostic of these mal- formations. In the latter state, the situation of the opening varies in the_ two sexes. In the male, the fistulous opening may be in the permeum ]ust behind the scrotum, in the scrotal raphe, or anterior to the scrotum. In the female, it occurs in the perineum close to the vagma, or at the posterior commissure of the vulva. In both sexes, and m all these situations—vesical, vaginal, and perineal—the vent is insufficient and defsecation more or less difficult. Hence, constipation and intestinal dilatation ensues, especially as the faeces acquire con- sistency, and sooner or latter life becomes endangered. All the foregoing malformations seem to occur more commonly in male children than in female. Thus, of 100 cases collected by Mr. Curling, 68 were males and 32 females. But of 100 cases recorded by M. Bouisson, 53 were females, and 47 males. So, therefore, the liability of sex is doubtful. Treatment.—Operative interference is necessary or becomes neces- sary to preserve life, in consequence of the anal or rectal obstruction ; or to remove a wretched and disgusting infirmity, in the cases of fistulous communication, vesical or vaginal, or of an external perineal opening. The principle of operation is to remove the obstruction by the formation of an anal opening in the situation of the natural anus, —the establishment of an artificial anus in the natural situation; or by the enlargement of a fistulous communication at some distance off; sub- stitute procedures being, an artificial anus in the left iliac region or the left lumbar region, respectively, by Littre's or Amussat's operations. Im,perforate Amis, as a simply menibranous obstruction, may be easily remedied. The integument over the seat of the termination of the rectum is usually so thin that the meconium can be distinguished by the dark-blue or black colour of the skin; and bulging becomes plainly visible when the child cries. A central crucial incision should be made with a sharp-pointed bistoury, and the four angles of the integument excised. The aperture must then be maintained by the introduction of an oiled tent or the passage of a bougie daily, until the anus is fully established, which seldom requires more than a week. Deficiency of the rectum, coexisting with imperforate anus, should be managed on the same principle. An incision is made at the site of the anus, exactly in the middle line ; and then the dissection must be prolonged cautiously towards the coccyx, extending to the depth of an inch and a quarter. The closed termination of the bowel may thus be reached, or in the course of a few hours it comes into view, being forced down by the infant's crying. When reached, the bowel must be opened freely with the bistoury, then drawn down to the external wound, and there attached by sutures. After this procedure, the same precaution will be requisite as before, in order to see that the anus shall become permanently established; a bougie should be passed occa- sionally for several weeks. In the event of a failure to reach the bowel, colotomy must be performed, in the left iliac region. Invperforate rectum—the anus opening into a cul-de-sac—necessitates similar operative interference. By dilating the cul-de-sac with a sponge-tent, for a few hours, the seat of operation is rendered more perceptible. Then, on introducing the finger into the anal cul-de-sac, if the obstruction is membranous, the termination of the distended