OVAEIOTOMY. 861 as a mode of inducing obliteration of tte cyst after tapping, is a plan of treatment now generally acknowledged to be at least useless. Fistulous channels -have been formed artificially, communicating with tbe interior of the cyst, through the abdominal wall, or through the vao-ina or rectum, so as thus to drain away the fluid secreted; but this mode of obliteration also has fallen into almost entire disuse, as being more hazardous than ovariotomy. It is, moreover, a long, pain- ful, and exhausting method; and the permanency of cure is very uncertain. This method would be applicable only where the tumour is unilocular. (3.) Ovariotomy.—Extirpation of Ovarian tumours, cystic or sobd, is an operation of comparatively recent date. Suggested by Dr. William Hunter, advocated by John Bell, and first practised by Dr. McDowell in 1809, the latter an American pupil of John Bell, Ovariotomy is therefore unquestionably an operation of British origin; and it is to the labours of British Surgeons that its subsequent progress is chiefly due. The woman first operated on recovered, and survived for many years. Mr. Lizars, of Edinburgh, attempted the first operation in G-reat Britain, in 1823 ; but the abdominal enlargement was found to be due only to obesity and tympanitis. The patient recovered. In London, the first attempt to perform ovariotomy was made by Dr. Granville, in 1827; the operation was abandoned on account of the extent of the adhesions. This patient also recovered. _ Both these operations had been done by the long incision, extending from the sternum to the pubes. The short incision, originally suggested by William Hunter, was first practised by Mr. Jeaffreson, of Framling- ham,in 1836 ; the patient recovering, and afterwards bearing children. The first completed operation in London was performed by Mr. Benjamin Philips, at the Marylebone Infirmary, in 1840 ; but the result was unsuccessful. The first successful case in the metropolis fell to the lot of Mr. Walne in 1842, followed by two other successful cases in 1848. At length, in 1846, Mr. Caesar Hawkins performed the opera- tion successfully at St. George's Hospital; this being the first success- ful case by a Surgeon of any of our Metropolitan Hospitals. Ovario- tomy has been established as a recognized operation in Surgery, by the labours of Dr. Clay, of Manchester, who in 1842 commenced his series of cases; by Dr. Erederic Bird, who began in 1843 ; by Mr. Lane, in 1844; by Mr. Baker Brown, in 1852; and by Mr. Hutchinson, in 1858. Keith, Peaslee, and Atlee especially have added largely to the experience and authentic records of the operation. Mr. Spencer Wells commenced his long series of operations in 1857, and has performed Ovariotomy in more than 700 or 800 cases. Conditions favourable and unfavourable for Ovariotomy, and the Selection of Cases.—The following general conclusions are gathered from Mr. Spencer Wells's report of his first and second hundred cases. (1.) The probable result of Ovariotomy can be estimated with far greater accuracy 'by a knowledge of the general condition of the patient, than by the size and condition of the tumour. In other words, a large tumour, extensively adherent, in a patient whose heart and lungs and digestive and eliminative organs are healthy, and whose mind is well regulated, may be removed with a far greater probability of success, than a small unattached cyst from a patient ansemic, whose heart is feeble, whose assimilation and elimination are imperfect, or