RESULTS OF ELBOW-JOINT EXCISION. 63 (9.) Charing Cross Hospital; period, 18G0-65. (Per Mr. Hancock.) Number of *""^(H)0" sTMaJ/s'Hospital; period, five years, 1870. (Per Mr. Gascoyen.) Num- ber of cases, 8 : recoveries, 8. ,or,n XT 1 r n (11.) Royal Free Hospital; period, seven years, 1870. Number of cases, 7: recoveries, G; deaths,!. ■ -, n ^onn m ht (12 ) Royal Sea-Batbing Infirmary, Margate; period, five years, 1870. (Per Mr. J R Clouting.) Number of cases, 6 : recoveries, 6 ; re-excisious 2 ; recoyeries, 2. ■ (13.) St. Thomas's Hospital; period, 1866-70. (Per Mr. F. Churchill.) Number of cases, 4: recoveries, 4. , . , /. i o^n /t. n/r (U.) Royal Albert Hospital, Devonport; period, five years, 18/0. (Per Mr. \V P. Swain.) Number of cases, 2: recoveries, 2. (15.) Great Northern Hospital; period, five years, 1870. (Per Mr. J. Willis.) Number of cases, 1: recoveries, 1. Compared with Mortality of Amputation of the Arm.—By Malgaigne's statistics from the Parisian Hospitals we find, of sixty-one cases for disease, four deaths resulting, or 6-5 per cent;—a lower mortality than that after excision of the elbow-joint. But the statistical results from University College Hospital, furnished by Mr. Erichsen, show & far hijher mortality after amputation. Of eighteen cases of amputation of the shoulder and arm for disease, five died, or 277 per cent. (2.) State of the Limh.—Of the 104 recoveries out of 119 cases, the majority {minus fifteen amputation cases) had useful limbs, as proved by the patient being able to resume his ordinary avocations ; but the details given respecting the kind and extent of motions left are not exact. The average duration of the process of recovery cannot be gathered from recorded cases. In three or four weeks generally, passive motion may be commenced, and fibrous union be completed in about six weeks ; a more rapid progress by half the average period requisite for osseous union, after excision of the corresponding joint in the lower limb—■ the knee. The resulting state of the joint is commonly fibrous and flexible union, rarely osseous and fixed anchylosis; the former, of course, being the result desired. In an interesting case, which Mr. Syme had the opportunity of dissecting nine years after the operation of excision of the elbow, for injury, the ulna was found united to the humerus by ligament, while the end of the radius was polished off, and played on ilie humerus and ulna, a material like cartilage being interposed. The ends of the bones of the forearm were locked in by two processes pro- jecting downwards from the humerus, and strong lateral, and still stronger anterior and posterior ligaments, also bound them to the latter bone. Dissections of several cases, after successful excision of the elbow, may be found in Wagner on " Repair after Re-section ; " and it would seem that the general result is,—union by more or less exten- sible ligament. Flexion, according to M. Robert, is composed of two movements; the forearm being first drawn up to the humerus by the triceps, and then flexed by the action of the biceps. The joint becomes nearly as useful as the original articulation. Thus, in Mr. Syme's case, the man—a railway guard—could swing himself from one carriage to anotlior while the train was in motion, with the injured arm, quite as easily and securely as with the other; and in one of Mr. Butcher's cases, the man could lift a bucket of water, holding four gallons, and carry it to and fro, or lift it on to a table three feet high. Then again, the freedom of the anchylosis for the more delicate movements of tho