501 DOUBLE HERNIA. recumbent position, whicli solicits tlie passage of any f^cal matter throuo-li the intestine, and tlius favours contraction of the anal aper- ture. After an artificial anus has become entirely closed, the bowel remains permanently weakened, so that any faecal obstruction, and, perhaps laborious occupation, may rupture the intestine, extravasation taking place and speedily fatal peritonitis. Death has thus occurred lono- after the patient might have been pronounced safe,—a caution to prognosis, and a hint for preventive treatment. The results of Dapuy- tren's operative procedure for artificial anus have been generally suc- cessful. Of forty-one cases in his hands, and in the practice of otlier Surgeons, twenty-nine, or say three-fourths, were completely cured in periods varying from two to six months ; the remaining fourth, having been relieved of the involuntary escape of faecal matter through the arti- ficial opening, were so far restored from a sad condition, distressing to themselves and disgusting to others. It is encouraging to have to notice the slight mortality, compared witb that of many other surgical operations; for only two patients died, or one in twenty who were submitted to treatment by the entSrotome. A permanent artificial anus sometimes remains, having resisted all attempts at closure. This sad state may be made more tolerable by wearing a leathern receptacle or otber contrivance; and it is gratifying to add that patients have thus been enabled to live in comfoi-t and the enjoyment of good general health for many years. An artificial anus situated high up in connection witb the intestine, and which discharges chyle or chyme, will of course constantly deprive the patient of nutri- ment ; and this loss must be supplied by a proportionately increased quantity of nourishing food. Double Hernia.—A protrusion on both sides of the body, symme- trically, in the same parts, or unsymmetrically, in different regions, not unfrequently occurs. More than two such kerni£e are occasionally met witb ; and Sir A. Cooper records a case of six co-existing hernias in the same person,—three on one side, an inguinal oblique, a direct, and a femoral hernia, with the same on the other side. In any such case symptoms of strangulation may be referable to this hernia or to that, and it is sometimes very difficult to determine which is the seat of strangulation. Hence, in double hernia, the operation may, perchance, be performed on that side where, when the sac is laid open, there is no appearance of strangulation in the hernial protrusion. What should then be done? The Surgeon is justified in operating on the other side, with the view of saving the life of his patient. An illustrative case of double operation in double inguinal hernia, and a successful result, happened in the practice of Dupuytren ; and it may be referred to as a precedent under similar circumstances. The case is related in the "Le9ons Orales," 1832, tome i. p. 588.