"^^^ SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 1)868 a rectangular staff, with the short branch grooved at its side, ibis instrument having been passed into the bladder, the anr^le is made to correspond in situation with the front of the prostate, the lower or grooved branch lying parallel to the rectum. The left fore- linger IS passed into the rectum, and a long straight knife, held with tbe blade horizontal and the edge turned the left, is made to enter the perineum opposite the angle of the staff, and passed straight into and along the groove into the bladder. (Fig. 888.) The membranous urethra is thus left untouched. In withdrawing the knife, a lateral section of the prostate is made in its left lobe; and at the same time, an external incision downwards and outwards, round the upper and left side of the anus, to about an inch and a quarter in extent. Certain features in this operation are adduced in its favour:—the more direct line to the prostate, which, at the angle of the staff, is situated close to the surface of the perineum ; the membranous portion of the urethra is avoided; all blood-vessels are out of the way, and consequently there is no important haemorrhage; the rectum is less liable to be wounded; and there is less risk of deep-seated infiltration of urine. BiLATEEAL LiTHOTOMT.—Dupuytren's operation consisted in making a semilunar incision, transversely, in front of the anus; the convexity of this incision being upwards, and the horns extending laterally to between the anus and the tuberosity of the ischium on either side. The tissues were carefully divided upwards to the membranous urethra, avoiding the rectum; this portion of the urethra was opened by a median incision from before backwards, with a double-edged bistoury; then, the curved double-bladed lithotome was passed along the groove of the staff into the bladder, the staff withdrawn, and the concavity of the lithotome being directed downwards, the blades were opened, and, in withdrawing the instrument, both sides of the prostate were divided obliquely downwards and outwards to the requisite extent. The extraction of the stone is then accomplished in the usual manner. The principal advantage of this method is the facility it offers, by a free prostatic opening, for the extraction of large calcuU; an advan- tage, however, which can be gained, when necessary, by bilateral section of the prostate, in the ordinary lateral operation. The risk of haemorrhage is about equal in both these methods; but in the bilateral prostatic section, both seminal ducts being divided, the Surgeon incurs the additional danger of thus emasculating the patient. Bilateral lithotomy has been performed chiefly by French Surgeons —Roux, Sanson, Blandin, and Velpeau ; sind in America by Professor Eve, of Nashville University. The results of this operation are unfavourable ; 19 deaths having occurred in 85 cases, or 1 in 4| cases. Medio-hilateral Operation.—Civiale, in 1836, modified the median operation by his medio-bilateral procedure. It consisted of a median perineal incision, followed by a transverse section of the prostate with a straight double-bladed lithotome, which was passed into the bladder through the membranous urethra, along the groove of the staff, and the blades withdrawn open. QtJADRir.ATERAL SECTION OF THE Prostatb has been recommended by Vidal de Cassis, in cases of very large stone; no matter what the direction of external incision may be, so that it is not too small—