642 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. exceedingly—from a mere trace, to possibly 545 grains in tlie twenty- four hours (Parkes). The presence, or, as in the early stage it might be termed, the substitution of albumen for urea, is easily discovered and readily dis- tinguished, provided only certain precautions be observed in making the examination. They relate either to the chemical composition of the urine sub- mitted to examination, or to the tests employed ; chiefly, these pre- cautions have reference to the urine itself. Albuminous urine is not merely a solution of albumen. So far as it alone is concerned, by applying heat to such urine, the albuminous portion — white of egg — begins to coagulate at 160° Fahr., and gradually solidifies as the temperature rises to 1.20°. But this urine contains other ingredients, and their variations in quantity interfere with the coagulation of the albumen. Thus, if the urine be alkaline, or even neutral—whether from the presence of volatile alkali, cai'bonate of ammonia, or from fixed alkali, as soda—either alkali will combine with albumen, and neither of the resulting compounds being coagulable by heat, the urine remains clear when heat is applied. The albumen is not discovei'ed, although perhaps abundant. Or, again, if an opposite condition exists—should the urine be over-acid, from the presence of a free acid, as the acetic or hydrochloric, the acid will combine with albumen, and the acetate and hydrochlorate of albumen being uncoagulable by heat, the urine remains clear when heated. The albumen is concealed. Supposing, however, that, on the application of heat, a white flaky- precipitate does fall, resembling albumen, it may not be albumen. Earthy phosphates are likewise precipitated by heat. To distinguish between these two deposits—phosphates and coagulated albumen, as well as to evolve albumen concealed by an alkaline or over-acid state of the urine—heat having been applied, nitric acid (strong) should then be dropped into the test-tube, containing supposed albuminous urine. If the deposit be phosphates, they are redissolved ; if albumen, it is more firmly coagulated. Nitric acid unaided will precipitate albumen, but it also liberates lithic acid from the lithates, and combines with urea; when, therefore, either of these constituents is present in excess, a brown deposit of lithic acid or nitrate of urea forms and disguises the albumen. Both precipitates, however, together with the lithates, are redissolved by heat, which, on the contrary, discloses albumen. In short, heat clears off any difficulty arising from lithic acid, the lithates, and urea; nitric acid clears off any difiiculty arising from the (earthy) phosphates, at the same time liberating and evolving albumen from any prevailing alkaline or mineral acid condition. Nitric acid, in respect of its behaviour to albumen, disputes with heat the privilege of disclosing the presence of this abnormal con- stituent of urine. Nitric acid unites with albumen, forming what may be called nitrate of albumen, which is not coagulable by heat. _ Con- sequently, if only just so much acid be added to albuminous urine as shall combine with all the albumen present and form this nitrate, none of the albumen will appear when heated. Nitrate of albumeii, being insoluhle in nitric acid, appears when more acid is added; but is agani redissolved on the addition of an excess of acid. The happy medium