853 DISEASES OP THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. of tlio bladder nearly up to tlie uterus, and be about lialf an inch in width. The mucous membrane being seized with a vulsellum, excision is best accomplished by means of a curved, blunt-pointed pair of scissors. The opposed denuded surfaces are then brought too-ether by a series of wire sutures; observing that any bleeding hal ceased before making the coaptation. The patient should bo kept on her back, in bed, two or three weeks ; during which period the bowels should be confined for the first week, and the bladder emptied by using a catheter. In removing the sutures, the lower ones may be withdrawn after a week or ten days; the upper ones, where the tension is greater, not until a few days later,—say a fort- nio-ht. By this operation, a small pouch is left between the horns of the horseshoe above, through which mucus can escape, or the men- strual fluid be discharged from the uterus, but into which prolapsus is apt to recur if the interval be too large. Dr. Graily Hewitt s method proceeds upon the principle of constructing the floor of the vagina. Tumours.—Fibroids tumour is not uncommon. It may occupy any portion of the uterus: embedded in the uterine wall,—intra-mural; projecting into the abdominal cavity,—sub-peritoneal; or pedunculated in the cavity of the uterus,—submucous ; or even protruding into the vagina, as a fibrous polypus. The tumour is slow-growing, but may attain to a large size, weighing several pounds. The first or intra-mural kind are often attended by pam, owing to the irritation of the uterine muscle, which contracting, tends to extrude the tumour. Thus, an intra-mural tumour may become sub-peritoneal. This form is the most innocuous, becoming greatly isolated from the uterus. It rarely causes haemorrhage. It can commonly be felt and grasped by the hand through the abdominal wall. The process of extrusion may even go so far as to detach the tumour altogether. It then falls into the lowest part of the abdominal or pelvic cavity. The third kind, or submucous fibroid, is also the result of the process of extrusion. Projecting into the uterine cavity, it retains intimate rela- tions with the uterine wall and the vascular system ; and is especially apt to cause expulsive spasmodic pains and ha3morrhage. The fibroid polypus is a further step of the submucous tumour. Extrusion is so advanced that the connection with the uterus is only by a pedicle; and cases are not uncommon where the extrusion is complete, the pedicle is atrophied, and the polypus is cast out altogether. The intra-mural and submucous forms are the most serious. They may endanger life—(1) by repeated hiemorrhages; (2) by pressure upon surrounding organs. The age of production, or at least of discovery of uterine fibrous tumour, is usually between thirty and forty. Treatment.—Removal of the tumour cannot be effected by absorp- tion ; and any medicinal treatment for this purpose, whether by the administi-ation of iodine or mercury internally, or by the introduction of these agents into the vagina, will be of little or no avail. On the other hand, the propriety of operative interference must be well considered. The slight connection, vascular or fibrous, between an embedded fibrous tumour and the uterine substance, is a structural condition favourable to removal of the mass by " Enucleation." When also the tumour is pedunculated, and presents into the uterine or vaginal