TUEATMBNT OF CATARACT. 221 lens Is presented at tlie section (Fig. 627), and as the lens_ slowly advances, its egress is aided by the curette being steadily carried up- wards with gentle pressure, over the surface of the cornea;" any detached portions of the soft periphery of the cataract are also guided upwards by repeating this gliding pressure with the curette. Abrasion of the cornea may be prevented by using, as Graefe advises, a curette of vulcanite instead of silver. Displacement or Couching.—This operation for cataract is performed by introducing a curved needle through the sclerotic, just behind the margin of the cornea, and in the transverse axis of the globe; pene- trating the vitreous humour, the posterior aspect of the capsule of the lens is lacerated with the point of the needle, which is then carried upwards and forwards behind the iris to the front of the cataract, and the lens gently and steadily depressed downwards into the vitreous humour, until it is passed out of sight. There having been held for a few seconds to fix it in its bed, the needle is withdrawn. BecUnation —a modification of depression—is performed in like manner ; the lens being reverted backwards, downwards, and a little outwards. For either mode of this operation, the pupil should be dilated by a few- drops of the solution of atropine, appHed about an hour previously. _ Displacement of the lens has all the attractive advantages of sim- pHcity, rapidity, and immediate restoration to sight. But the chance of some structure essential to vision being injured by a wound in the dark during the operation, or of inflammation supervening in conse- quence of the lens, as a foreign body, sinking further down on to the retina, or falling forwards against the ciliary processes and iris, make a sum total of accidents adverse to this procedure. The conditions favourable for displacement are such hard cataracts as may not be suitable for extraction. Operation for Solution and Absorption.—In this operation, which is well adapted for soft cataracts, and which may be employed in most cataracts occurring under the age of thirty, the steps of the operation are, in the first instance, to dilate the pupil thoroughly by the instilla- tion of a solution of atropine, containing four grains to the ounce. The patient being placed under the influence of chloroform, the lids separated with the speculum, and the conjunctiva seized with a pair of fixing forceps to steady the globe, a sharp needle, so made that it will not penetrate the eye to a greater depth than one- * third of an inch, is slowly pressed through the cornea into the lens. If it be only rotated, the opera- tion is termed drilling, but more commonly the capsule is somewhat ex- tensively torn, in order that the aqueous humour may be freely imbibed by the substance of the lens. Atropine should again be instilled, a pad and bandage applied, and rest enjoined. In some.instances little or no * First step of operation for removal of softened lens after operation for solution. The speculum is not shown, l)ut the keratome is seen entering the globe at a short distance from the periphery of the coruea, the point entering the softened Ciitariict.