SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 614 Fig. 794. Fig. 795. The coexistence of inguinal or inguino-scrotal tumours or swellinfTs when it occurs, will always complicate tlie diagnosis. Thus, Scrotal hernia may be complicated by the coexistence of hydrocele. Yet the two_ swellings retain their distinctive characters;—the hernial portion having an impulse on coughing and being reducible; and usually defined from the hydrocele by a constriction or boundary, more or less perceptible to the touch when handled, and even to the eye when the patient stands up. The hydrocele is, commonly, anterior. Treatment.—Inguinal hernia, in common with other hernise, requires difierent treatment according to whether it be reducible, irreducible or strangulated ; besides which there is the special adaptation of treat^ ment to the special varieties known as congenital and encysted hemiae. Beducihle hernia should be returned, as soon as possible, by employ- ment of the taxis ; care being taken that this manipulation of the tumour be conducted gently, in the manner already fully described. The direction of pressure is particularly important; and the terms oblique and direct, with regard to inguinal hernia, will sufficiently suggest the course of the hernial protrusion. But, in old obUque hernia, the canal will have become nearly direct, from the constant dragging in and dilata- tion of the internal or deep ring. In children also, the canal is very direct, the two rings lying nearly opposite each other. When re- duced, a suitable and well-fitting truss must be applied and worn. The pad must be so ad- justed as to fairly close the hernial aperture; in the oblique inguinal, it should press not only upon the external abdo- minal ring, but also upon the whole length of the anterior wall of the in- guinal canal; in the direct inguinal, the ex- ternal ring only need be closed. Some pain or discomfort, owing to pressure on the spermatic cord, may require a little readjustment of the truss. Inguinal Hernia Trusses.—Yarious forms of Truss have been in- vented, and used for Inguinal hernia. These which are more com- monly employed differ in their construction, and relative advantages, as follow :—(1.) Salmon and Ody's truss. Its peculiarities are—(a) the spring extends from the centre of the spine across the abdomen to the abdominal ring; the truss being so formed that it passes round the opposite half of the body to that on which the hernia descends. (J) The pad is attached to a ball-and-socket joint, so that it may more accurately follow the movements of the trunk. (Fig. 794 represents the single truss of this description; Fig. 795, the dmble truss, or that