327 ODONTALGIA. Dffpn a mere inspection of the mouth, aided perhaps by a dentist s ■ nv will reveal the nature of the evil; but leaving out of the question T P cases in which the cause is obvious, 1 will take those only m which no cavities of any size are visible, or, if there are any, only such are efficiently filled. . j . Pain that is paroxysmal, being severe at times and at others whollv absent, is generally due to a diseased but living tooth-pulp ;. pain that is constant, varying but little, to diseased tissues around a '^^^In mSh5 ^nExamination, after carefully inspecting all the teeth, «nd searchin°o- them over with a finely pointed dentist's probe, tap Gently each tooth in succession on the affected side; then press each Irmly home into its socket, taking the pressure off suddenly ; then Lss each from side to side ; and, lastly, press with the soft part of the Wer firmly over the roots of each tooth. If no painful sensation is elicited by these procedures, there is no inflammation of the alveolar tjeriosteum, no impending alveolar abscess, and the cause of the pam is to be sought in a Hving tooth-pulp, or in an exostosis of the root fwhich mavnot give rise to tenderness under such examination). But the existence of moderate tenderness does not absolutely prove the death of the nerve; it only points to its being diseased, probably dyino-, and this is the next point to ascertain. Try each tooth with hot and cold water, if necessary isolating eacli one by means of the rubber dam, or with heated instruments of such bulk as to warm up the whole tooth. If the tooth is conscious of change of temperature, the nerve is alive; if it is hurt by it, the nerve is unhealthy; if a considerable degree of cold is grateful to it, the nerve is almost surely inflamed, and will die if it is not destroyed by applications for that purpose. _ If the nerve be dead, the cause of pain will probably be the irrita- tion set up by its decomposed remains escaping through the apical foramen, and the pulp-cavity must therefore be opened, its contents evacuated, and carbolic acid or creasote freely used. But without proper instruments, specially devised for passing up into the root-canals, etc., the chances of success are small, and the tooth had better be extracted; even in the hands of a skilful dentist its preservation is not certain. Sometimes, however, the mere opening up of the pulp-chamber, and the consequent removal of tension caused by pus or gas within it, •will without further treatment relieve the pain. Perhaps, on opening up the pulp-cavity, the nerve may be found to retain some vitality, although it was too nearly dead to respond to the application of heat or cold through the substance of the tooth. In such a case, a free application of creasote will allay pain almost at once. If, however, the nerve be alive, the temporary aim of alleviating pain will be gained by the insertion, on a pledget of wool, of a little carbolic acid. The question of its ulterior treatment depends on its condition. A nerve that is largely exposed, and has ached much, can rarely be restored to health, and ihe prospect is still less promising if it has begun to suppurate. In such cases the nerve must be destroyed before the tooth can be filled, and an arsenical application, made with due precautions (see page 317), had better be at once inserted.