SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 108 removal for disease or injury, the operation can be fashioned in a similar manner, leaving a very useful forceps-hand. _ Amputation of the Thumb, at its Metacarpo-phalangeal Articulation, 13 performed in precisely the same manner as for the removal of a finger at the same articulation; but, if possible, the head of the meta- carpal bone should always be preserved, any remnant portion of the thumb being specially serviceable. Hence, the incision from the dorsal aspect must be carried forward on the radial side beyond the base of the phalanx, to obtain sufficient flap-covering for the bulky head of the metacai-pal bone. The result of this amputation will often be very satisfactory; the ball of the thumb acquiring a considerable range of motion, and equal strength as an op- ponent to the fingers; both of which functions are shown in the use of the hand of a patient upon whom I had thus operated for iniury to the thumb. (Fig. 544.) Amputation of the Thumb, at its Carpo-metacarpal Articulation, is the only amputation peculiar to the thumb. Liston's method.—Commencing an in- cision just above the articulation of the base of the metacarpal bone with the trapezium on the palmar aspect, and continuing it down the dorsal aspect of the bone, inclining sHghtly to the radial side, the knife is Fig. 544. Fig. 545. sunk into the fold of integu- ment between the thumb and forefinger (Fig. 545); then, introducing the knife at this extremity of the in- cision, and thrusting it up along the palmar aspect of the bone, its point is made to emerge at the commence- ment of the incision, and the palmar integument divided outwards (Fig. 546); observ- ing to carry the blade for- wards to opposite the dorsal incision, at the root of the thumb, that the palmar flap shall entii-ely cover the exposed surface of the web. The bone is twisted out, and disarticulated with a few touches of the knife; the lips of the oval wound form a single incision, and eventually a linear cicatrix. In operating on the right thnmb, it will be necessary for the Surgeon to cross his hands in an awkward manner, unless he is ambidextrous. The order of amputation may, therefore, be reversed; first, by trans- fixion, the palmar flap is made, and then the dorsal incision. Another method consists in carrying the dorsal incision downwards to within half an inch of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, and then in an oval form around the joint, up to the dorsal incision. When the flap is brought together there will still be only a single line of cicatrix. Amputation of the Little Finger, at its Garpo-metacarpal Articulation^ may bo performed in a similar manner.