DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 133 throwing out a succession of circular rings around its centre; tke rings acquiring a difference of colour from age, and being likened to a rainbow. This kind of eruption is commonly met with on the extremi- ties, and especially on the back of the hands. Our review of erythema up to this point assumes to be founded on a healthy state of the blood-vessels and of their contents; but in a state of dyscrasia of the blood and of the capillaries, the blood is apt to escape into the intervascular spaces in the form of puncta or blotches, and to constitute purpura—the spots and blotches being variously named stigmata, petechias', vibices, and ecchymoses. We have commenced our review of the pathology of the skin with, the consideration of erythema, because it represents the slightest form of aberration from the standard of health, blending in its mildest degrees with simple physiological disturbance ; although stretching onwards from that point to very grave forms of disease, such as inveterate urticaria and erysipelas. One of the most conspicuous symptoms of erysipelas is infiltration of serous fluid into the tissues of the skin, and the escape of that fluid beneath the epidermis, where it forms bullae or blisters. This phenomenon has suggested the term erysipelas hullosum, and it calls our attention to another circumstance, namely, that such an effusion is more common in certain, constitutions than it is in others. The skin is liable to serous effusion beneath the epidermis from a base of simple erythema, often so slight that the bulla itself is the first evidence of cutaneous disorder; and this bullous effusion has received the name of pemphigus. Sometimes the bulla is solitary (P. solitarius), in which case it may assume the magnitude of a hen's egg; at other times it makes its appearance in clusters of irregular form and size, and with bullae equally irregular in point of bulk. Other names which, have been assigned to its different forms, such as " benignus " and "gangrsenosus," demonstrate that, vrhile in general the affection may be trivial, it may sometimes be attended witb a state of atony nearly approaching to gangrene. As a rule it may be assumed that pem- phigus implies debility of constitution and debility of tissue, and, where it exists extensively, is sometimes fatal. A spreading form which is apt to occur on the trunk of the body, and shows itself as a stratum of collapsed blisters resembling dried leaves (hence P. ybZm- cms), is apt to exert the baneful influence of an extensive burn, and be fatal in its operation; whilst another form, with smaller bull«, is acompanied with intense pruritus, and is very serious. Occasionally, the centrifugal growth already referred to in connection with erythema 18 evinced as a pemphigus circinatus ; and in a similar manner erythema iris, by the development of a blister in the centre, becomes converted into a pemphigus iris. Hyperaemia of the skin, with an exhausted state of the cutaneous tissues, such as occurs in some fevers, particularly those accompanied ■with profuse sweating, where heat and moisture contribute to the result, sonietimes gives rise to a diminutive form of pemphigus—an eruption, in fact, of small vesicles, which from their minuteness of size are called miliaria, and occasionally, from their association with sweating, sudamina. Pemphigus and miliaria have been denominated bullous or vesi- culous affections, and one of the forms of eczema has been included