SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 152 ot the cerebral functions of consciousness, sensation, and voluntary motion But other symptoms present differences of character from those of Concussion, which are more or less diagnostic :—the breathing IS slow and heavy, attended with a stertorous or snoring noise; the pulse IS slow and laboured; while the pupils of the eyes are generally dilated, and always insensible to the stimulus of light. Exceptions to the general rule are, however, met with; depressed fracture occurring sometimes without any symptoms of compression. Thus, when the depressed bone is not firmly fixed, or, in the case of a loose, com- minuted fracture, there may be no cerebral compression. Or, in children, the more yielding and elastic texture of the bones may permit of an indented fracture, without symptoms; the bone soon regaining its proper level. In any uncertain case, with cerebral symptoms, the Surgeon will be warranted in making an exploratory incision. The same symptoms may proceed from extravasation of blood, or from the formation of purulent matter, under the cranium. But, with depression, these symptoms are immediate; with extra- vasation, there will be an interval, during whicb consciousness may have been regained more or less completely, as, concussion passed ofF, the symptoms of compression supervene ; with pus-formation, there will also be an interval, during which inflammatory symptoms were present, those of compression supervening. Compound fracture more readily admits of detection, by gently passing the finger or a probe under the scalp; care being taken not to mistake any natural suture or vascular groove for fracture-fissure. Any abnormal disposition of a suture would be especially misleading. The cerebrospinal fluid has been known to escape, as a clear, watery discharge, from the wound, in compound fracture of the vault of the skull; but then the injury must have involved the membranes of the brain,—extending into the subarachnoid space, between the arachnoid and pia mater, or even communicating sometimes with, one of the lateral ventricles. This kind of discharge, from the vault, was originally observed by Delamotte, in the case of a child seven years old; a wound on the forehead, leading deep into the skull, gave exit to a large amount of watery fluid, which flowed more freely whenever the child was made to blow his nose. Other instances bave since been noticed in the practice of modern Surgeons. Causes, and their Effects.—Direct violence is almost invariably the only cause of fractures of the cranium in its vault, an etiological dis- tinction as compared with fractures of the base. Falls on the head, and blows with almost every kind of weapon, or gunshot injury, as a bullet-wound, represent the occasions of direct violence. In a case of suicide, by firing a pistol into the mouth, I found that the ball had penetrated the base of the skull, and, passing through the brain, struck the roof of the skull; fracturing the inner table, and mising the outer, it fell back into the substance of the brain. The relative resistance of the external and internal tables to direct violence, has been much discussed; and especially in the bearing of this question on the production of incomplete fracture, as of the inner table alone. It has been said that the inner table is more apt to be broken ; and that this comparative liability is owing to its greater brittleness, and lesser extent of surface,—the outer table having greater elasticity, and a wider expanse of surface, it allows of iuteratitial stretching with-