818 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. to the recumbent or standing position of the patient—the apparent diminution under compression, and some impulse on coughing, will render the diagnosis from inguinal hernia most difficult. The formation of any such cyst in the spermatic cord seems to be generally due to an unobliterated portion of the vaginal sheath of peri- toneum which accompanies the cord ; and which, at that part, becomes distended by an accumulation of fluid in it. Sometimes the cyst arises as a distinct cystic formation, connected with the cord. Hydrocele of the cord occurs most frequently in children or young boys ; although it may be met with at all ages. Treatment should be conducted on the same principles as for other hydroceles, by tapping and stimulating injection, or the introduction of a seton ; or by an incision to induce granulation from the bottom of the cyst. Diffused hydrocele of the Cord has been described by Pott and Scarpa; and, as a variety of hydrocele, has found its way into Surgical Fig. 950.* Fig. 951.t works. If it ever occurs, it is, probably, simply an oedema of the cord, and not any kind of cyst- formation. Treatment would have to be conducted on ordi- nary principles; counter-irritation by blistering, or incision of any localized swelling to discharge the fluid and provoke consolidation. Hydrocele of the spermatic cord may be associated with inguinal hernia; a complication which is well illustrated in the specimen here represented. (Fig. 950.) Double hydrocele, one on either side, is sometimes met with; but more rarely, there may be also a coexisting hydrocele of either sper- matic cord, as occurred in the case from which the parts are figured. (Fig. 961.) Tumours of the Spermatic Cord may be noticed as rare pathological * London Hoep. Mue., A. g. 47. t Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2339. Double hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, -with hydrocele of each spermatic cord; on one side the tunica vaginalis, on its inner surface, is adherent by films of plastic lymph, resulting from injection for the radical cure of hydrocele. Some of the injected fluid escaped into the cellular tissue of the scrotum; and the consequent inflammation was so severe, that the patient—an old man—died. (Listen.)