728 SPKCIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. wire sutures. Completion of the urethra and the formation of a pre- puce—according to Wood's operation—" consists in raising the whole front of the scrotum, together with the skin covering the lower side of the penis—going deep enough to include the muscular layer of the dartos—so that these tissues form a sort of bridge of skin connected with the groin on both sides. This is then lifted over the penis, which the great extensibility of the parts permits easily to be done, and placed upon a bed or raw surface, prepared for its lodgment by turning down a collar or flap from the arched border of the bladder- covering above, and from the sides of the urethra and penis below, as far forward as the glans. A continuous thin wire suture holds tlie deeper or reversed flaps together, and a single line of interrupted sutures connects the transplanted scrotal structures to the border of the bladder-covering. The gap in the scrotal wall is afterwards easily closed in over the testicles by the great extensibility of tlje binder part of the bag, which is left intact; the margins of the wound being brought together vertically by thickisb wire sutures that will not easily cut out." As to the difficulties of these plastic operations, Mr. "Wood finds that in the first stage, or closure of the bladder, the chief difficulty arises from the hernia-like protrusion of the hinder wall of the exposed bladder by the action of the abdominal walls upon the contained viscera. In the second stage—that of forming the new prepuce and completing the urethra—the chief difficulty arises from the occurrence of erections in the imperfect penis, excited perhaps by in-itation of the sutures ; thus displacing the united parts, or rupturing the newly formed adhesions, before sufficiently firm to resist tension. After-treatment.—The former difficulty referred to, is best obviated by position of the patient, after operation; a sitting posture, with the knees drawn up, tied together, and placed over a high bolster. This relaxes the abdominal and pelvic muscles connected with Poupart's ligament completely, and also allows the urine to drain off by gravi- tation from the raw and adhering surfaces. Erections are most effec- tually controlled by continued cold applications, as by irrigation or ice- bags. Results of Operatioyi.—Richard's case was unsuccessful, death ensuing, in nine days, from peritonitis. Ayres's two cases were both successful. So also was another by Mr. Michel, 1868 ; that of a male child, fourteen months old. But" Mr. Wood records eight cases of operation ("Med.-Chir. Trans.," 1869), in none of which was there the slightest approach to peritonitis; and all recovered, except the first case, which terminated fatally, deai,h however not resulting from the operation. The success of operation, in curing or relieving the mal- formation, has been variable; sometimes a perfect result, sometimes a complete failure, sometimes a greatly improved condition. Functional Morbid Conditions. — The bladder is subject to functional morbid conditions, which may, or may not, involve struc- tural alterations in the organ. These conditions of function comprise :—(l) Irritability ^of the bladder, with frequent micturition; (2) spasmodic action ; (3) neu- ralgia; (4) paralysis; (5) atony; (6) incontinence or involuntary escape of urine; (7) engorgement of the bladder, and overflow of urine; (8) retention of urine.