SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE BLADDEB,, PROSTATE GLAND, ETC. 607 prominence appears—the uvula vesicce,—formed by a thickening of tlie submucous tissue; tWs elevation is placed just before the middle lobe of the prostate, and projecting from below into the urethral orifice, it partly closes the aperture ; and is sometimes continued forwards as a shghter elevation on the floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra. Adjoining the orifice of the urethra, the bladder becomes narrowed into a funnel-shaped portion—the cervix or neck—within which the mucous membrane is disposed in longitudinal folds. In the female the trigone is a smaller space, the muscles of the ureters are less developed, and the uvula is indistinct. Size, Shape, Position, and Relations of the Bladder, as altered ly the State of Distension.—The surgical anatomy of the bladder varies in certain important particulars, according to the state of collapse or dis- tension of this organ. When entirely empty, after the complete evacuation of urine, it is reduced to its minimum size, and it then has the shape of a triangular sac, flattened in front and behind ; its base is directed downwards, resting on the rectum, and the apex reaches up- wards to behind the symphysis pubis, so that the sac lies against the triangular ligament, and is sunk down entirely within the cavity of the pelvis. When moderately distended—as was supposed in describing the relations of the bladder—this sac assumes a circular form, with the corresponding dimensions of about three inches in width and five inches in length,—the organ holding about a pint; but its axis remains nearly vertical, and it is still contained within the pelvis cavity. When fidh/ distended, the bladder acquires an ovoidal or egg-shaped form, curved also somewhat, and compressed from behind forwards, thus becoming slightly concave in front and widened from side to side; the organ has rotated on its transverse axis, the base being directed downwards and backwards on the rectum or vagina, and the summit looking upwards and forwards,—its long axis, therefore, inclining in an oblique line drawn from the coccyx to some point between the pubes and the um- bilicus ; the bladder rises in the direction of this line, out of the pelvis, until its summit touches the wall of the abdomen above the j)ubes, in the hypogastric region, at a height varying according to the state of distension. This elevation of the bladder proceeds from the neck, which, owing to its true ligamentous attachments, and connection with the urethra, is a tolerably fixed point. The funnel-shaped outlet still remains the lowest portion in front, but it is elevated relatively to the prostate ; the inferior fundus, also rising to a higher level, is relatively less dependent; while externally, the peritoneal pouch recedes to some extent from the base, thus presenting a larger triangular space against the rectum, and the summit of the bladder, in front of the superior peritoneal false ligament, is more exposed, or comes in contact with the wall of the abdomen above the pubes. The age of the subject examined must not be overlooked in noticing the relative anatomy of the bladder. ' In infancy and youth, the neck is the lowest portion of the bladder, —lower than the inferior fundus ; the prostate, in front, around this portion, is of much smaller size or rudimentary ; and the bladder lies partly in the cavity of the pelvis, but projecting upwards more or less above the brim into the hypogastric region. In old age, on the other hand, the inferior fundus is even more capacious and dependent than in the adult, and any enlargement of