SPECIAL, PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. connection with some occasion of injury; and examination per rectum may discover the seat and nature of the lesion. Defa3cation^s miS t^lpf^ln"'""' T '^"^fl^^ ^^^^^ ^^^"'^ ' ^^^^ P^«' ^^^^ suppuration takes place. Granulation and cicatrization follow, or the wound becomes an ulcer of the rectum. Treatment consists in keeping the bowels easy and free by mild aperients or emollient enemata, and the avoidance of stimulating tood ; with rest in the recumbent position. Cleanliness after each evacuation will do much locally to promote healing ; but an intractable sore or ulcer should be brushed over with a solution of nitrate of silver occasionally. It may become necessary to make an incision throu'j-h the mucous membrane, along the ulcer, as directed in the treatment or fissured anus. Foreign Bodies.—All sorts of foreign bodies may be found in the rectum ; having been swallowed, or introduced directly into the bowel through the anus, and sometimes maliciously. By either mode of entrance, the list of such substances on record is most numerous and diverse in their nature ; and their variety is increased by those formed m the body and impacted in the rectum. Hence may be found con- cretions,—biliary, intestinal, and fsecal; of substances swallowed,—the bones of fish and small bones, stones of fruit, coins, pins, needles, knives, nails, sealing-wax, cedar pencils, brown paper, etc.; and as introduced through the anus,—pieces of stick, ivory, cork, horn, metal, rings, ferrules, bottles, pots, cups, a shuttle with its roll of yarn, a knitting-sheath, a pig's tail, a broom-handle, the leg of a chair, etc. ' The symptoms of any such foreign body impacted, will be pain, hemorrhage, and obstruction ; on examination, it will be found within the rectum, and sometimes sticking out of the anus. Any sharp spicu- lated body occasions the acutest agony, especially on the slightest motion, so that the sufferer becomes afraid to move. In one such case, the patient crawled into my consulting-room, looking the picture of misery, and could only point backwards to the fundament. I immedi- ately introduced my finger into the rectum, when, about two inches from the anus, I touched a bar lying across the bowel and stretching it out at a point on either side. I dislodged this bar with a twist and withdrew it through the anus. It proved to be the rib-bone of a rabbit. The patient remembered having eaten rabbit a few days previously, and the night before I removed this faithful rib, he was suddenly seized with excruciating pain in the lower part of the bowel, aggravated as he rolled about with suffering during the night. The relief was instantaneous, leaving only a dull aching sensation which wore off in a day or two. Treatment in any case must, of course, be extraction of the foreign body, as soon as possible. But this may be diificult to accomplish, according to the situation of the body, its size, and nature. Concretions offer some advantage over other substances. Emollient enemata of soap-and-water or olive oil may do something towards softening feculent masses; thus facilitating their extraction or dis- charge, piecemeal. They can then be scooped out with a lithotomy-scoop or a table-spoon. Other foreign bodies present special difficulties, and each almost its own peculiar difiiculty. Eemoval is effected by the finger or the hand, coupled with dilatation of the anus, which admits of gradual enlargement so as to pass the whole hand; or instruments