SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 770 Fig. 923. Thus, the length of this incision may be from one to two inches, while its depth should not exceed more than half that to which the blade can be projected in Civiale's instrument. The penis should be stretched to steady the otherwise movable urethra. Of the two methods of opera- tion, the former is suitable for antibulbous strictures, the urethra being straight in that portion of its course, is not liable to perforation ; deeper strictures, situated in the curve of the canal, had better be incised from be- hind forwards. Various instruments, or urethrotomes, have been constructed for the intei'nal division of strictured urethra. For incision from before backwards, Staf- ford's lancet-catheter may be used ; the point is concealed in the tube until the end of the instrument rests upon the stric- ture, it is then projected, and the instru- ment carried on through the obstruction. A curved, as well as the straight, form of this instrument has been employed. Sir H. Thompson's catheter-urethrotome or Mr. John Wood's instrument (Fig. 923) is more applicable ; also the urethrotome with terminal fine bougie guide, devised by Maisonneuve, or the similar shielded instrument of Voillemier. For incision from behind forwards, Civiale's urethro- tome is the best form of instrument. Trelat's urethrotome can be used in both ways,—from before backwards, and then from behind forwards; thus making a second incision when necessary, and the operation more complete. After either mode of operation, a full-sized catheter should be introduced along the roof of the urethra, to avoid the incision, and re- tained for twenty-four hours; although some Surgeons of experience think the latter practice unnecessary or objection- able. An instrument should also be passed occasionally, for some time, to prevent recontraction. A urethrotome provided with a terminal filiform bougie, will enable the operator to deal with very tight strictures. The immediate effects and after-con- sequences of internal urethrotomy are very seldom serious. Heemorrhage, be- yond a few drops of blood, is rare, a.nd easily stopped by passing a full-sized instrument, and the application of ice externally. Some feverishness often ensues, but soon subsides. Abscess and extravasation of urine are very uncommon, having taken place once or twice only in nearly 200 cases operated on by Sir H. Thompson ; while cystitis, nephritis, and pysemia are unknown. f