254 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. after it lias been applied. Loops of horse-liair, catgnt, and jack-line will be found better than the usually employed wire. In cases in which the excrescence is small, and there is a difficulty in reaching it, the forceps will be found more convenient than the snare. Aft( i removal of the growth, some caustic, such as acetic, nitric, or chromic acid, should be applied frequently to the root, until all signs of the polypus have completely disappeared. A convenient method of cauterizing the polypus without injuring the surrounding parts, it being difl&cult to avoid doing so when a solution is used, is the applica- tion of a thin layer of nitrate of silver, obtained by heating a crystal of the caustic over a spirit-lamp and placing a probe or a piece of stout silver wii'e against the heated crystal; or a fine point of nitrate of silver may be used in a small caustic-holder. When the presence of a polypus is ascertained it should always be removed. Some Surgeons hesitate to remove a polypus where disease of the brain is threatened, on account of the irritation which the removal would cause to the tympanum; but it is probable that its presence is more injurious than its removal, and cases have occurred in which, on the removal of an aural polypus, cerebral symptoms have been almost immediately relieved. After the removal of the polypus the disease, of which it was only a symptom, must be treated. Injuries of the Membraua Tympani.—Rupture is the most frequent injury that occurs to the membrane. This is caused by the intro- duction of some sharp-pointed instrument through the external meatus; by attempts to extract foreign bodies; or by a sudden concussion over the auricle, as the blow of the flat hand on the ear or striking the head on the water while bathing, the sudden explosion of artillery near to the patient, or some other loud noise ; or as the result of pressure from, or disease in, the meatus or cavity. Rupture occurs more frequently when the ear is already in an unhealthy condition, especially in cases in which an unhealthy condition of the Eustachian tube exists. Artillerymen, in whom this accident is particularly frequent, have a habit of opening the mouth when they expect an explosion of cannon. The effects of a concussion on the membrana tympani are best guarded against by stopping the ears and inclining the ear to the shoulder of the side from which the concussion is expected. Medico-legal questions occasionally arise as to whether the rupture of a membrane was caused by a blow or was present before the blow was given, or whether the membrane was in such an unhealthy con- dition that it could be easily injured. The recent rupture of a healthy membrane caused by a blow or a loud explosion is usually a long gaping tear, parallel to the handle of the malleus, the gaping dependmg upon the action of the radiating fibres of the middle layer. The edges of the tear are coated with blood, the rest of the membrane bemg healthy, free from opacities, thickening, or deposits, although it may be hypertemic. A broad, soft, continuous sound is heard with the otoscope, on passing a current of air tkrough the Eustachian tube; unless some time has elapsed since the rupture, in which case infiltra- tion and exudation wiU have occurred, giving the appearance and the broken and hissing sounds of a diseased membrane. In a simple case of this kind no special treatment will be required, the ret^enerating power of the membrana tympani being very great. The ear should be closed lightly with a piece of cotton wadding.