DIFFICULTIES, AND ACCIDENTS, DURING LITHOTOMY. 689 Fm. 883 * Enlargement of the Prostate, which, places the bladder beyond reach of the finger (Fig. 883), renders the introduction of the forceps diffi- cult, and seizure of the stone moi'e so, owing to the liability of its falling into the depression behind the prostate, and thus escaping the sweep of the forceps; but the latter difficulty may be overcome by ■using long curved forceps, at the same time endeavouring to raise the stone by passing the finger into the rectum, if the fundus of the bladder can be reached behind the enlarged prostate. In extracting the stone through an enlarged prostate, some difficulty may be ex- perienced ; and rather than bruise or lacerate the parts, it would be proper to incise the op- posite side of the prostate towards the tuber- osity of the right ischium, thus forming a bilateral section of this body, without making any additional perineal incision. Occasionally, in dilating the prostate, a myomatous or pro- static glandular tumour has been enucleated ; and this condition, which Professor Gross has met with in several operations, is said to delay the closure of the wound. Encysted calculus is not very common; but if this condition be found in exploring the bladder with the finger, the course to be taken by the Surgeon should depend entirely on the size of the aperture of the sacculus. A small aperture will preclude the possibility of re- moving the stone without endangering life. A large opening, or a partially encysted condition, may allow the stone to be liberatedr This can sometimes be effected by a fortunate catch with the forceps; in one case, by Collot, changing the position of the patient proved suc- cessful m dislodging the stone ; in another, by Sir B. Brodie, the orifice was enlarged with a probe-pointed bistoury, and the calculus turned out with the finger or scoop. The latter procedure is, obviously, extremely hazardous, since the bladder might easily be cut throuo-h into the peritoneal cavity. When, therefore, the calculus cannot be otherwise removed, and with tolerable facilitv, the operation should, as Coulson observes, be abandoned. An encapsuled calculus was once found, by Mr. Erichsen, in a child; the stone, about the size of a pea being felt at the inferior fundus of the bladder, covered in by a kind of false membrane. This membrane was scraped through with the nail, and the stone removed with a scoop. The cyst attached was about the thickness of ordinary writing-paper, of a reddish colour consisting of organized fibro-cellular tissue, and resembled mucous membrane. Excepting a slight attack of secondary heemorrhage on tbe eighth day after operation, the patient made a good recovery Sir A. Cooper removed an encysted calculus, in the case of a child without opening the bladder m the usual manner. Passing his finger into the rectum, the stone was felt and struck with a sound; then bv'intro- ducing a knife through the perineum above the bowel, the cyst was opened and the stone extracted. j wcia * Roy. Coll. Surg M.us., 2036. Greatly enlarged prostate • lithotomv r«ln„l„=, xemaming in the bladder, two other stones havin| been reived! (£ w. Sard VOL, IXi r\ 2 Y