SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 633 * 280 of any undetached portion of the retina. The ophthalmoscope has been of much service in enabling an accurate diagnosis and prog- nosis of the diseased conditions of the choroid to be made. Unhappily the treatment in many cases can scarcely do more than arrest tho progress of the affection, the damage already done being irreparable. Atrophy, h86morrhages of greater or less extent, inflammation attended by exudation and displacement of the pigment, and ruptures are of not unfrequent occurrence; in rare instances sarcomatous and other tumours have been observed. In myopia the optic disk is usually embraced on its outer part (internal as seen in the inverted image) by a white crescent, due to a protrusion of the sclerotic—which is here rather weaker than elsewhere, and yields to the intra- ocular pressure—shining through the atrophied layers of the choroid. One of the commonest forms of retinal disease is albuminuric retinitis. It is seen in patients suffering from Bright's disease and scarlet fever, and occasionally during pregnancy. Attention is generally drawn to the affection by the com- plaint of the patient that the vision of both eyes is slowly becoming im- paired. On examination, optic neuritis is usually found to be present; the disk is swollen, reddish, and destitute of any well-defined limiting contour, so that its position can only be recognized by the point of emergence of the vessels. The arteries are small and indistinct; the veins are large, congested, and often varicose, and, as a result of their over-tension, rupture is not infrequent, causing limited ecchymoses ; white spots and irregular- shaped patches are also commonly seen, especially near the posterior pole of the globe. These are partly due to effusion of lymph, or the diapedesis of white corpuscles from the vessels, and partly to fatty degeneration of the retina. Amaueosis.—This term, signifying simply dimness of sight, pro- ceeding perhaps to total blindness of one or both eyes, is thus far a functional condition; but the loss of vision is dependent on, and symptomatic of, various structural changes in the retina or choroid, the optic nerve or brain. Some such changes, therefore, are open to examination with the ophthalmoscope, while others are concealed and must remain hidden within the cranial cavity. Si/mjdoms.—Dimness of vision is the essential symptom in am- blyopia and cerebral amaurosis, but experienced and manifested in * The appearances met with in albuminuric retinitis: a, ill-defined disk; b, on the right of figure, minute white spots; h, on luft of figure, enlarged vein; d, arterial hremorrhages ; c, h', white spots.