EESULTS OF KNEE-JOINT EXCISION. 2S five years and a Half. This case also illustrated the fact that sucTi arrest of growth depends more on the removal of the lower epiphysis of the femur than the upper epiphysis of the tibia, the one bone ei-owinff in length less than the other after removal of its epiphysis at the knee-joint. Thus, the femur, as compared with its fellow, had lost four inches ; the tibia, compared with its fellow, had lost only halt an inch,—making an absolute difference in the whole length of the hmb of four inches and a half. ^ j The permanent wtUity of the limb thus shortened by arrested growth, may not be impaired. After an excision of the knee-jomt by Mr Holmes, eight years previously, and where the whole epiphysis ot the femur was removed, progressive shortening had taken place to the extent of six and a half inches, by twenty-two years of age; yet a compensatory dropping of the pelvis on that side to the amount ot two inches, and a high-heeled boot of four inches, enabled the patient ta walk with a slight limp to any distance, at the rate of over four miles an hour; and he can walk twenty-five miles a day without fatigue. The muscles of the thigh are much wasted. Still, allowing for these and other exceptional eases, the rule already laid down as to excision of the knee-joint in young subjects, under the age of about ten or twelve years, should be observed. Be-exdsion. —This proceeding is particularly advocated by Sir WilHam Fergusson. In his "Lectures on the Progress of Surgery " he urges re-excision after a fair trial of the result of the original opera- tion. Then he observes: " I believe dealing freely with the wound, opening sinuses, clearing away strumous effete material,_ picking away loose necrosed pieces of bone, gouging away bare material of the kind —ay, even opening up the whole surfaces, and sawing off fresh pieces of bone, to be better than amputation." My own experience of re- excision, as to the knee-joint, has been favourable. Thus, in 12 cases of knee-joint excision, 1 was followed by re-excision, and then by secondary amputation, but with a recovery so rapid as seemed to indicate that neither of the previous operations, excision or re-excision, was prejudicial to secondary amputation for the preservation of life. Secondary Amputation.—In exceptional cases, the course of an ex- cision of the knee-joint may look very unpromising, so that the Sur- geon may be tempted to despair of a successful result, and exchange a watchful after-treatment by resorting at once to amputation. It would be impossible to give directions which should supersede judgment in all the contingencies which may arise. So long as any failure of osseous union may be referable to a limited amount of caries or necrosis and suppuration, at the seat of operation, the case will be one for topical interference, or, at the most, timely re-excision. Even under the most unfavourable circumstances apparently, experience has justified me in not hastily dooming a limb to (secondary) amputation. Thus, in one case, where in addition to excision for unusually extensive scrofulous caries of both articular ends of bone in the knee-joint, it was also necessary to remove the whole of a thickened, pulpy synovial membrane, nothing but a very thin skin flap was left. This sloughed entirely, exposing the ends of bone; extensive necrosis seemed very probable, or osteo-myelitis, under these circumstances. Tet healthy granulations sprung up between the section-surfaces of the femur and tibia, in apposition, and the granulations coalescing, the breach of con-