SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the nigU passed in restless efforts to obtain relief. After each act of micturition is apparently completed, another significant sympto^ t experienced; a certain portion of urine still escapes as a^^Sn^^ leakage, owing to the propulsive force of the remaining urine bein^ dllTtS'T r'''°"^' ^^^^^^^^^^ °f strictur!, which V a! dilated by the stream passing when the bladder was full After he act of micturition is actually quite finished, a certain portion of urine can sometimes be squeezed out by pressure behind the seat of stricture leit in the canal behind the stricture, during the effort to pass urine • and by constant straining, some feculent matter or flatus escapes at such times, and a tendency to prolapsus of the bowel is established in a paroxysm of straining effort, rupture of the urethra may occur behmd the stricture ; and then extravasation of urine takes place intc^ the cellular texture of the perineum, scrotum, and supra-pubic region in the act of coitus, much pain is experienced about the eiaculatorv ducts, and as the semen escapes with difficulty through the urethra, but passes back mto the bladder, there may be no seminal emission: and the unhappy patient believes himself actually, as he may be virtually, impotent. The urine undergoes those changes which result Irom chronic cystitis, consequent on retention. It becomes ammo- niacal, cloudy, and deposits more or less mucus and pus, with phos- phates. Hsematuria is an occasional concomitant of stricture; the blood coming from the mucous membrane of the bladder, or perhaps from the urethra after catheterism or an erection of the penis affectintr the seat of stricture. A gleety discharge not unfrequently attends old stricture of the urethra. The general health fails, the patient losing flesh and strength : he has an anxious and careworn appearance; suffers from pains in the loins, lower part of the belly, the perineum, and testicles; and is subject to severe attacks of rigors. Any irritation of the urethra, as by passing an instrument or the application of an irritant substance, will often provoke such an attack, especially in those who have lived in hot cli- mates; or it not uncommonly excites general feverishness—hence named " urethral fever," and which has sometimes an intermittent character. Certain varieties of organic stricture may be recognized by some peculiarity of their respective symptoms :— Simple stricture; chiefly denoted by diminution in the size of the stream of urine, with the other ordinary symptoms of stricture. Sensitive or irritable stricture.—Proneness to disturbance of the nervous systern, as manifested by chilliness or rigors on very slight urethral irritation ; and pain, sometimes persistent, from the gentlest passage of an instrument. A disposition to haemorrhage is evinced in a few cases. Contractile or recurring stricture—distinguished by a constant ten- dency to further diminution of the urethral canal, in the absence of treatment; and contraction recurs rapidly after dilatation has been effected. Examination of the Urethra.—Catheterism, or what I would term, bougieism—the use of a bougie—supplies the most direct and conclu- eive evidence as to the existence of stricture; evidence analogous to that of sounding for stone in the bladder. The presence of stricture, its situation, its calibre, the extent of the canal involved, and the