842 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. camo under Sir A. Cooper's observation ; tbe testis descending at from one to seventeen years, or even twenty-one years. Complete descent tails to take place m about one person in 1000; and then the testis may be permanently retained in the abdominal cavity, or in the internal abdominal ring or m the inguinal canal just above the external abdo- minal ring. The right or the left testis is nearly equally liable to these malpositions; and rarely it happens with both testicles. _ The causes of any such failure of descent would seem to be a defi- ciency m the force, whether it be the contraction of the fibres of the gubernaculum or some other force, whereby the descent of the organ IS effected; or, sometimes, an impediment to the process; as an im- perfect development of the mesorchium, or adhesion to one of the viscera or to the abdominal wall, consequent on intra-uterine peri- tonitis ; imperfect patency of one of the inguinal rings, or some obstacle in the inguinal canal. Shortness of the vas deferens or of the spermatic vessels may also be regarded as a cause of retention; though the cord is often tortuous or convoluted. The condition of the retained testis, as to its structure and function, IS variable. It has been found of full size, rarely; generally, it is imperfectly developed, being smaller than natural, and its gland- tissue remaining immature as in the infantile organ. Or, it may be atrophied, and have undergone fibrous or fatty degeneration, oblite- rating any trace of gland-structure. Functionally, the organ is incom- petent,^ This want of secretory power for the production of sperma- tozoa, is of little consequence when the other testicle has descended and is healthy; the one organ being quite sufficient for generation. But when both organs are retained, the procreative power will usually be completely wanting; the individual is absolutely impotent. He may have full sexual desire, power of erection, and emissions during connection; but the spurious seminal fluid contains no spermatozoa, and has no impregnating influence. Diseases of retained Testicle.—The organ is liable to inflammation and malignant disease, encephaloid cancer more particularly; and or- chitis is especially apt to occur when the testis is lodged in the inguinal canal, the inflammation arising from gonorrhoea or from injury. The diagnosis between a retained testis in that situation, and inguinal hernia, or even bubo, must be decided by reference to the symptoms of these conditions. Mistakes have been made by eminent Surgeons, and Ricord nearly mistook an inflamed testis for a bubo. Congenital liernia not unfrequently accompanies and complicates undescended testis in the inguinal canal. The testis may be unable to bear the pressure of the truss requisite to prevent the descent of the hernia ; while in an operation some difficulty is often experienced, owing to adhesion of the gland and bowel. Mis-descent of the testicle sometimes takes place ; the organ having descended within the abdomen, it escapes into the perineum near the anus, or into the pelvis; or through the crural ring and saphenous opening, thence upwards upon the abdomen, so as to simulate crural hernia, or is lodged behind the fascia in the upper and inner part of the thigh. Inversion of an undescended testis is occasionally met with; the vas deferens and epididymis presenting forwards, and the body of the organ looking backwards. The diagnosis of any diseased condition is