SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 510 Signs and Diagnosis of Congenital, and of Encysted Hernia.—The congenital variety presents no peculiar characters whereby it can be distinguished from the ordinary oblique inguinal hernia, excepting with regard to the relation of the testicle to the hernial tumour. In scrotal congenital hernia, the testis cannot be felt separate and distinct; although the situation of that body below and somewhat behind the hernial contents—not the fundus of the sac—remains un- altered, in this the ordinary complete congenital hernia. The scrotal tumour is rounder, and the neck more narrow and contracted. The latter sign is more marked when the hernia has not descended for some time after birth, as the vaginal process of peritoneum will then have become condensed, feeling like a somewhat enlarged and indurated spermatic cord. In the adult, this long narrow neck is specially cha- racteristic of scrotal congenital hernia. But the more defined scrotal swelling may be mistaken for hydrocele. In congenital hernia, scrotal or inguinal, with undescended testicle, the absence of this organ from its normal situation will declare the nature of the hernia. The testis may be found just outside the external abdominal ring or between its pillars ; within the inguinal canal; or within the abdomen. Still, in the first two modifications of congenital hernia, the hernia is generally in contact with the testis ; in the last named it is not so. An inflamed undescended testicle simulates the symptoms of strangulated hernia; thus obscuring the diagnosis of these two conditions,—orchitis and congenital hernia presumably strangulated. In the inguinal canal, the tumour, having an oblong shape, may be tense and painful, with some abdominal tenderness emanating from that situation, and there may be perhaps nausea and constipation. But if it be the orchitis of a misplaced testicle, these symptoms subside after a while, and especially the constitutional dis- turbance ; leaving only a tumour of diminished size, the testicle, in the inguinal canal. And the absence of this organ from the scrotum will have suggested, in the first instance, the probable nature of the case. In any case of supposed congenital or infantile hernia, the duration of the tumour from childhood, in some instances, Fig. 793.* will throw some light on the question of diagnosis. Encysted hernia presents no distinctive characters from congenital hernia ; but the testicle can be felt distinct from the hernial contents, at the bottom of the scrotum. The precise nature of the hernial tumour is, how- ever, usually discovered only during an ope- ration, when requisite for the relief of strangulation. Diagnosis of Inguinal Hernu.—Every inguinal hernia escajies from the abdomen above Poupart's ligament. Femoral hernia is distinguished as follows. When inguinal hernia is confined to the inguinal canal—as an incomplete hernia or bubonocele —Poupart's ligament can always be traced along its inferior border, and the hernial aperture is situated above this ligament. (Fig. 793.) In * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 1319. (Howship.)