EXCISION OF KNEE-JOINT AT ADVANCED AGE. 31 her own request, to sit up in bed, reclining on a back support. Seven weeks after operation the splints were removed; firm union of the bones was found to be established, with the limb in a perfectly straight position. But the patient could not yet raise her leg from the bed. Apparatus reapplied. October 4th.—The patient was carried from bed, and permitted to sit up for some hours, the limb in splints resting on two chairs. She was suddenly attacked with erysipelas, which, commencing in the foot and leg, spread up the thigh—sparing the front of the knee—and extended above the buttock to the loins, and round to the lower part of the abdomen. Eventually the limb remained in a state of great cedema. During the course of this attack, the splints having been necessarily removed, the limb gradually became slightly bowed outwards at the knee, yet the union remained firm, and the incision never reopened or gave issue to any discharge. Oxide of zinc was powdered over the whole surface, forming a kind of casement which absorbed the moisture, and seemed to stimulate its internal absorption. The cedema subse- quently yielded to bandaging, aided by the horizontal position of the limb. At length a starched bandage was applied, and about four months after operation the patient went home to Dunstable, with instructions to return for examination in about a month. State of the limb five and a half months after operation. —Union firm and immovable. The bowed appearance at the knee is corrected. Measurements of the limb are as follows:—Length 32-| inches, sound limb 35^ inches, or 3 inches shortening as the result of excision ; cir- c^cmference of knee 15| inches, of sound knee 14*^ inches, or 1 inch more after excision; the calf 12^ inches, and at the same level of the calf in sound limb 13 inches, or only -I inch less after operation ; the thigh 19| inches, and at the same level of the thigh in the sound limb, 12 inches, or 1| inch less after operation. The functional use and power of the limb may be thus estimated at the period referred to : the use of the limb for support in progression is not yet perfect; but the patient can bear her heavy weight upon it, and can walk with the aid of a stick; the power of the limb, according to its muscular development compared with that of the other limb, is indicated by the circumfer- ential measurements of the calf and thigh. As the limb is brought into more active use there cannot be a doubt that it will become even more nearly equal in respect to its size and strength. Proceeding to comment upon the particulars of this case, some of them seem to be more especially suggestive. First, the kind of disease submitted to excision was, I believe, almost entirely exceptional to previous experience. In the histories of a hundred cases collected by Mr. W. P. Swain, and which represent the majority of the cases operated on by Sir William Fergusson and some other Surgeons of experience, no allusion whatever is made to rheumatic affections, except in two instances. Of one of these cases (No. 84) the briefest description is given—that it was "rheumatic disease of the knee-joint," of no specified character; and that the result was recovery, but that of this case "no notes were taken." In the other^case (No. 92) the patient had been attacked with " acute rheuma- tism" twenty years previously, but "she used the limb until eighteen months ago, when she foil, sprained" and struck the knee, and sinco