650 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. perhaps seen and traced up to a part of the canal where it ceases. That JS the seat of invagination. A constant desire to relieve the bowels is experienced, and frequent efforts are made to do so ; but the constipa- tion IS obstinate, and nothing passes, or only a little wind and a lump or two of hardened faeces, or a little mucus mixed with blood may be strained out; not unfrequently, pure blood, fluid or clotted, is dis- charged. Vomiting soon sets in, the contents of the stomach being ejected, and then speedily stercoraceous matter. This state continuing and increasing, the patient's anxiety and distress are aggravated. His restless endeavours to force a passage by stool, in the vain hope of obtaining relief, the accumulating abdominal distension, and pain heightening to agony, constitute a picture piteous to behold. At length prostration ensues, with some abatement of the symptoms, but of a delusive character; the victim sinks exhausted in a few days, usually m about a week or ten days at the latest. Death is consequent on the exhaustion, coupled with gangrene and peritonitis. In chronic obstruction, stricture of the bowel, and commonly of some portion of the large intestine, as of the sigmoid flexure or of the rectum, is attended with similar symptoms ; but they are less speedily developed and less marked. Progressive inability to relieve the bowels, and narrow, constricted, or flattened motions dwindling down at length to constipation, with nausea and then vomiting less early stercoraceous, are succeeded by tympanitic distension and pain. Death may not occur for weeks or months, and recovery takes place when least expected. The diagnosis as to the particular cause of obstruction cannot be positively determined by any known special symptoms, except perhaps where the seat of obstruction is low down, near or in the rectum. Nor, with regard to more internal obstructions, is the causative condition so important practically, as its particular seat,—the portion of intestinal canal affected. To discover this point, a most careful and thorough ex- amination of the abdomen should be made externally ; and an explora- tion internally as far as possible, through the passages,—the rectum, and the vagina in the case of a female patient. The diagnostic symptoms in the principal different conditions, acute and chronic, may be thus stated. In intussusception, the chief signs are—the fixed pain and the distension, with tenesmus and bloody mucous stools, probably also the detection of an intumescent tumour, and the early age of the patient. In volvulus or twisting of the bowel, the abdominal distension may be very unsymmetrical; great tympanitis on one side, and flattening on the other, with the symptoms of internal strangulation. In internal hernia, the suddenness and marked severity of the symptoms are somewhat distinctive. In chronic stricture, the converse character, and the order, of the symptoms as just described. Examination per rectum can be made with the finger or by means of a bougie or injection. When the stricture is situated low down, it may be reached with the finger, and a more satisfactory exploration made as to the nature and extent of the constriction. Simple stricture is limited usually to a circular band, having a sharp margin around the aperture which communicates with the intestine above. Cancerous stricture extends along the rectum, and presents considerable thicken- ing and an irregular or nodulated surface. If a bougie be introduced, it must be passed up with great caution and no degree of force, as