715 CALCULUS IN THE FEMALE. Treatment.—The various operative procedures for removing calculi from the female bladder, are of four kinds :—(1) Dilatation of the urethra; (2) Dilatation, with partial slitting up, of the urethra; (3) Lithotrity ; (4) Lithotomy, practised in four different ways. Dilatation of the urethra may be accomplished rapidly or slowly ; the former method was recommended by Sir A. Cooper when the stone is small, and that dilatation should be accomplished in a few minutes,— the method proposed by Tolet; but that when the stone is large, it will be better to dilate slowly and gradually from day to day, until the requisite extension is accomplished,—the method suggested by Douglas. Rapid dilatation is not much more painful than the slower procedure ; but, according to ""^ Dupuytren's experience, and at variance with that of Mr. Coulson, it is much more likely to be followed by incontinence of urine. Dila- tation can be effected by various means; solid or flexible bougies, gum-elastic catheters, pre- pared sponge, or other tents; or by the cau- tious application of Matthews' female urethra dilator — a three-bladed instrument, worked by a screw at the handle (Fig. 892)—the specu- lum, or blunt gorget. After sufficient exten- sion, a pair of forceps is introduced and the stone extracted. Stones of considerable size and weight have been thus removed from the female bladder ; notably, in a case by Coulson, the calculus weighing four ounces, and with- out any incontinence having resulted. In one case I succeeded with forceps alone in extract- ing an oxalate of lime calculus, the size of an almond, which was impacted in the urethra of a young woman. The stone had been lodged there for some time, causing partial retention of urine; and when removed, its exposed surface was obviously " water- worn " by constant attrition of the stream of urine in micturition. The results of urethral dilatation will enable the operator to more accurately estimate the relative merits of the rapid and the slow methods of this procedure ; and the balance of evidence would appear to be not unfavourable to the former method. Thus, we find that in twenty-eight cases which Mr. Bryant collected from the records of Gruy's Hospital, four only were followed by any incontinence of urine, but they were cases of slow dilatation; whereas the remaining great majority of twenty-four, without any resulting incontinence, had been submitted to rapid dilatation. Slow or gradual dilatation—in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours—has, however, yielded very safe results in the hands of Professor Humphrey, and when some of the stones were of large size. I suspect that the latter fact, as relating to the exteiit of the dilatation requisite, according to the size of the stone, would reconcile some of the apparent differences of result attributed to the rapidity or slowness with which the dilatation was conducted. Dilatation, with partial slitting-up of the urethra,!^ applicable when the former method has been carried to the farthest extent consistent with safety, and yet the stone is too large for extraction without thus