SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Go2 from the blood; while effete and noxious matter—urea—representing the decay of the textures, is constantly retained; thus conceding the powers of life to the dominion of death. Besides the symptoms incident to this double process of destruction—by starvation and blood- poisoning, both of which are faithfully represented by the condition of the urine—general dropsy supervenes, owing to the retention of the water, which infiltrates the cellular texture throughout the body, presenting an additional symptom. The curative indications of treatment are—to reverse, if possible, the relative conditions of the blood and urine, and thus restore the condition of health. Cupping or blisters on the loins will tend to remove renal con- gestion—in the early stage of nephritis ; but the perilous state of the kidneys forbids any direct attempt to restore their function. Sub- sequently, diuretics may be tolerated, and then prove serviceable. Digitalis, squills, or the tincture of cantharides, cautiously adminis- tered, are perhaps the most efficacious. The pill originally prescribed by the late Dr. Baillie is an admirable formula. It consists of powdered digitalis, half a grain, and squills, one grain, combined with three grains of blue pill; to be taken two or three times a day. Palliative treatment will have for its object the discharge of water, which has accumulated in the system, by other channels than the kidneys; i.e. through the bowels and skin. Hence, hydragogue cathartics, e.g. elaterium, croton oil, gamboge, jalap with cream of tartar; and diaphoretics, e.g. citrate of ammonia, the compound powdered ipecacuanha (Dover's powder), and hot-air or sweating baths ; are singly, conjointly, or in succession, often remarkably useful and comforting. A generous diet, consisting of an increased proportion of albu- minous food, as in the form of eggs, is especially necessary in the chronic disease, to replace the albumen which has been lost, and is still passing away; with tonics also to support the circulation. The pre- parations of bark are thus effectual, but those of iron more so, for in, no disease, perhaps, are the red corpuscles of the blood so reduced. Preventive Treatment has reference rather to the causes of that primary alteration of renal structure, whence the pathology of the blood and urine proceed. Those causes are preventible, in most in- stances. Scarlatina is an occasional cause—rarely, however, a pro- ductive one, unless brought into operation by cold. After scarlatina has run its course, the residue of poison remaining in the blood appears to be naturally expelled by the kidneys, imposing extra functional duty on these organs; yet they generally fulfil their appointed task, unless when thus congested—bordering on inflam- matory excitement—exposure of the body to cold should further im- pose an additional and intolerable burden. Then, under the pressure of extreme congestion, albumen is filtered off, urea retained, and febrile dropsy supervenes. This additional strain on the excretory power of the kidneys, and its results, are obviously preventible. So also the more prevalent intemperate use of spirituous liquors imposes extra work on the kidneys ; but even this strain may be made for years with impunity, although a hazardous experiment. Exposure to cold, how- ever, becomes intolerable ; it provokes albuminuria. Such is the usual etiology of this disease, as originally investigated