608 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. birth, it may not occur for years afterwards. Hence the hernia itself is not, properly speaking, congenital, and it might be more correctly designated, as Mr. Birkett has suggested, "hernia into the vaginal process of the peritoneum." Occurring, therefore, in early life—in infants a few weeks or months old—this species of hernia also occurs, for the first time, at perhaps any subsequent period of life. Cases between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five are recorded by Velpeau; and I once operated on a right congenital hernia in a middle-aged man in whom, after death, I found the left vaginal process completely per- vious, admitting a large-sized elastic catheter from the internal abdo- minal ring to the testicle. Thus, this was a case in the adult of strangulated congenital hernia on one side, and the persistent structural condition without hernia on the other side. The preparation is in the Museum of the Hospital. The relation of the testicle to congenital hernia is very important; associated with congenital persistence of the vaginal process of perito- neum, the testis on the same side frequently occupies an abnormal situation. There will then be two persistent congenital conditions, both arrests of development; the one, an unobliterated state of the vaginal process of peritoneum, which should be temporarily provided only as a sheath for the descent of the testicle into the scrotum; the other, an arrested descent of the testicle. Congenital hernia may, therefore, not as usual contain the testicle in the tunica vaginalis or hernial sac, the testis never having descended into the scrotum. The abnormal conditions of the vaginal 'process of peritoneum, in connection with the abnormal situations of the testicle, and the relative positions of the hernia to this organ, may be thus tabulated (Birkett): (1.) The vaginal process continuiug open Fig. 791.* and common to the cord and testis. The testis may be situated— a. in its normal site at the fundus of the scrotum; b. just outside the external abdominal ring, or between its pillars (Fig. 791) ; c. within the inguinal canal; d. within the abdomen. N.B. In a, b, c, the hernia is generally in contact with the testis; in d, it is not. (2.) The vaginal process of the cord and testis communicating by an intermediate aperture. The testis is in the scrotum. N.B. The hernia may or may not pass through this aperture, and is therefore sometimes but not always in contact with the testis. (3.) The vaginal process of the cord only being open—Hernia into the funicular portion of the vaginal process. This condition was first described by M. Malgaigne. The testis is in the scrotum. N.B. The hernia is never in contact with the testis. Additional sacs, or prolongations and extensions of the vaginal pro- cess, sometimes exist within the abdominal walls ;—" intra-parietal,' * Roy. Coll. Surg. Miis.. 1342. The sac of a cougeiiital heruia, with the testicle Bituated at the external abdomiual riug. (Sir W. Blizard.)