G75 STONE IN THE BLADDER. of tlie bladdei'; or if the stone can sometimes be easily felt, and at otber times not felt at all, owing to its escape occasionally into the bladder and back again into the cyst. A large encysted calculus, having been struck, may perhaps be defined with the bulb of the instrument; not as an isolated stone, but through the mucous mem- brane, as a projecting tumour. (Fig. 876.) This comparative absence of symptoms occurs also when a cal- culus, at first loose in the bladder, Fig. 876.* afterwards becomes encysted. Diagnosis.—The symptoms of stone, taken severally, may, when present, be due to other diseases of the bladder. A pedunculated growth in the bladder is apt, during mictu- rition, to flap over the urethral orifice and thus abruptly arrest the flow of urine. Ulceration of the prostate, or malignant disease of the bladder, both give rise to heemorrhage. Lastly, the pain and vesical irritability may be sympathetic of an impacted and in- flamed testicle within the inguiual canal, in the more rare case of unde- scended testis. We should therefore not be misled by the presence of any one symptom, but be guided by an association of the symptoms in respect to urinary calcalus, as in the diagnosis of nearly all other diseases. Even the positive evidence afforded by sounding will often be masked when the prostate is enlarged. And, as Sir B. Brodie first observed, the last-mentioned symptoms, pain and vesical irritability, are often much diminished by this prostatic condition ; owing probably to the enlargement protecting the more sensitive neck of the bladder from the weight and friction of the stone. Difficulties and sources of fallacy in the way of sounding may be thus enumerated : a large and deformed bladder ; a contracted bladder, unable to contain fluid ; a sacculated or encysted bladder ; an irregular, hour-glass contraction of the bladder, obstructing the passage of the sound into one of the compartments; calcareous matter adherent to the walls of the bladder; calculi in the prostate and urethra; en- larged and roughened prostate; and tumours at the neck of the bladder. The calculus itself may be coated with blood or mucus. In the female, the symptoms of stone are similar to those in the male. Sounding is very easily accomplished, the straight and short urethra readily admitting the instrument and exploration of the bladder. The sound should, therefore, be shorter and less curved. By introducing the fingers into the vagina, the stone can be tilted for- ward, thus facilitating the examination. Consequences, and Terminations of Stone in the Bladder.—The bladder, prostate, ureters, and kidneys undergo important structural changes^ chiefly of a destructive character. With these changes in the urinary apparatus, exhaustive constitutional disturbance takes place. The bladder becoming extremely sensitive, especially behind the prostate, where the calculus commonly rests, the urine is expelled at short * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2012a. (Wormald.)