717 CALCULUS IN THE FEMALE. sects a small portion of the anterior wall of tlie ragina. Chelius recommends a vertical incision directly downwards, tbus dividing also the corresponding wall of the vagina. A bilateral section of the urethra has also been performed. Listen notched the neck of the bladder on both sides towards each ramus of the pnbes, and then dilated for a few minntes until the finger could pass into its cavity. The lateral operation, similar to that in the male, and practised oi'iginally by Frere Jaques, was revived by Dr. Bachanan, of Grlasgow. A grooved staff, curved or straight, having been passed into the bladder, an incision is made on the inner side of the left nympha, from a point about half an inch above the urinary meatus, and carried downwards and outwards, parallel with the rami of the pubis and ischium. By touches with the knife between the rami and vagina, which is drawn inwards and protected by the left forefinger, the staff is reached just in front of the neck of the bladder; then, lodging the point of the knife in the groove, a slight ui'ethral incision is made, inclining the blade downwards and outwards, and dividing the neck of the bladder. The opening can be enlarged with the finger sufficiently to introduce the forceps and extract the stone. This operation has yielded successful results ; the wound healing rapidly, and the patient having the power to retain her urine. Lateral lithotomy seems to be specially suitable in female children. (2.) Direct lithotomy might be performed, as suggested by Celsus. This method of "cutting on the gripe," in women, consists in passing the fingers into the vagina, in order to press the stone forwards against the neck of the bladder, and then making a transverse incision directly on the stone between the urethra and symphysis pubis. Lis- franc endeavoured to revive this method in 1823; but it has justly fallen into disuse. (3.) Vagino-YesicdX lithotomy consists simply in making an incision through the vagina into the bladder, and thence extracting the calculus. A curved staff is used so that its convexity shall appear in the anterior wall of the vagina, while the posterior wall is depressed with a blunt gorget or a speculum. In this method of operation the urethra is avoided, and afterwards a female catheter is introduced through this passage into the bladder, and the edges of the vaginal incision are brought together by suture, as originally suggested by M. Coste, and first practised by Dr. Marion Sims. Immediate closure of the incision was first adopted in this country by Mr. J. R. Lane. Vagino-vesical lithotomy is suitable for the extraction of large calculi, and in adults. Vidalhas thus operated in thirty cases without any death, and Yelpeau also testifies to the freedom from danger. There is generally no haemorrhage, nor subsequent peritonitis; but vesico-vaginal fistula is a common result, unless the precaution be taken of closing the incision at the time of operation. Incontinence of urine is apt to follow all these operations of litho- tomy, although the last-named method is least liable to this result. (4.) Siipm-iJubic lithotomy has been recommended in the female, as an occasional resource; when the stone is of very laro-e size, or the pubic arch contracted, or perhaps both these complications 'are associated.