246 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. several forms of specula, of either silver or caoutchouc, but the silver speculum of Wilde, with the edge of the narrower end rounded, will be found as convenient as any, (Fig. 644) This should be of a suit- able size, and introduced carefully, as in many patients the meatus is extremely sensitive. The ear to be examined should be turned away from the light, the light being reflected into it by a mirror, which may be worn attached to a band fastened round the Surgeon's head, or held in his hand, as he finds most convenient. (Fig. 645.) A con- cave mirror, with a hole in the centre and a focal distance of from four to six inches, throws the best light. (Fig. 646.) Siegle's pneamatic speculum, with the addition of a magnifying lens (Fig. 647), is use- ful for examining the curvature, tension, excursions, and adhesions of the membrane, and is also used for creating a partial vacuum in the meatws, and thus removing fluids from the cavity and destroying newly formed abnormal adhesions. Diminished Secretion of Cerumen.—A dry condition of the canal, caused by the absence or Fig. 647.t diminished secretion of ceru- men, which is frequently ob- served in connection with disease of the internal ear, and with nervous deafness, appears to have no influence on the hearing power. Accumidation of Cerumen. —The accumulation of ceru- men in the meatus is caused by either an increased secre- tion of cerumen, or some obstruction to its natural exit. Irritation, or anything which causes an increased blood supply to the lining membrane of the meatus, will cause an increase in the secretion of cerumen. Accumulations are most frequently seen in old people, in whom the cerumen is stiffer and denser than in the young; in persons who have a narrowing in the calibre, or who have had an abscess in the meatus; -in cases of chronic eczema, and in those whose work exposes them to an atmosphere of dust. The masses of wax are usually mingled with dry flakes of epithelium, haii-s, and dust. They are usually of a dark-brown or black colour, with a glistening reflection, but in children are pale yellow. The subjective symptoms are tinnitus, deafness, frequently accompanied by pain, vertigo, and confusion of ideas. The mass of cerumen may be in the ear for weeks or months unnoticed, as long as the smallest * Concave mirror to be worn on the forehead, for the piupose of reflecting light into the ear through the speculum. (St. John Roosa.) t A modification of Siegle's pneumatic speculum, with the addition of a magni- fying lens for the purpose of examining minute portions of the membrane, and a drum for the determination of the hearing power in different jiositions of the natural drum. This instrument is used to create a partial vacuum in the meatus. (St. John lioosa.) Fis. 646.*