SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. affection lepra vulgaris, whicli frequently lasts ani entire lifetime, the constitution may possess considerable vigour, and yet the disease be perpetuated because it is due to an inherent debility of the skin itselt. in other words, therefore, it may be said that diseases of the sJ£in are troublesome, but rarely grave. Cause.—A knowledge of the cause of cutaneous diseases is abso- lutely essential to their treatment; and the principal causes may be grouped into external and internal, local and general. All irritants, including heat and moisture, parasitic animalcules, bites, stings* punctures, and scratches, are causes of hyperaemia and eczema! Local disturbances of innervation and circulation, particularly obstruc- tion of venous circulation as evinced by chronic eczema of the legs, are fruitful causes of cutaneous hyperaemia and its consequences. Other causes reside in the insufficient vitality or defective structure of the skin itself, as may be seen illustrated in lepra vulgaris, ichthyosis, and lupus; whilst a still larger field is opened out in the case of errors of assimilation and nutrition, which may one while produce an erythema or an eczema, and another while a ringworm. Moreover, a feeble or irritable state of the nervous system gives rise to certain affections especially characterized by neurotic phenomena, which may be due to the operation of an especial irritant, or may depend upon an organic alteration in the nerve structure itself. Treatment.—Our descriptive diagnosis, our prognosis, and enumera- tion of causes have, it is hoped, led our reader onwards to a perception of the principles of treatment which we believe to be sound and the best suited to the accomplishment of alleviation and cure. The order which we have adopted is therapeutical, as well as pathological. Our first group of diseases is composed of such as are dependent on ordinary constitutional disturbance, in which the treatment must be simply constitutional — antiphlogistic, depurative, derivative, and tonic. In the second group, which are modified by peculiar conditions of the skin itself, or by the operation of special poisons, our treatment must be specific. In a third group our efforts must be directed to the improvement of the nutritive condition of the skin ; and in a fourth, to the restoration of the tone of the nervous system ; while, in all the preceding groups, due attention must be given to local applications. As the common cause of the first group is indigestion and mal- assimilation, our remedies are mild saline aperients, and sometimes occasional doses of blue pill. But we must combine tonics with our aperients, and hold tonics in reserve for restoring the powers of the patient, and in some instances begin at once with tonic remedies. A glance at the leading diseases of this group wUl show at once the application of this methodus medendi, e.g., erythema, eczema, pemphigus, ecthyma, f urunculus, anthrax: the two latter remind us that our tonics will be quickly wanted; while in pemphigus they will possibly take precedence of every other consideration. In the second group we enumerate exanthematous fevers, syphilis, elephantiasis, struma, and lepra vulgaris. A survey of these diseases will show at once that their treatment must be different from that of the preceding. The exanthemata we watch simply, and only interfere to prevent causes of aggravation. For syphilis we have our specifics in iodine and mercury. Elephantiasis, at present, has defied specific treatment, and must be dealt with by alteratives and tonics.