EXCISION OF THE WRIST. 73 Fig. 518.* found to serve, however much the parts may be obscured by inflam- niatory thickening. Next, the soft parts at the M side of the incision are detached from the bones with the kmfe, guided by the thumb-nan; so as to divide the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis lono-ior at its insertion into the base of the second metacarpal bone, and%aise it, along with that of the extensor carpi radialis brevior previously cut across, and the extensor secundi internodii, while the radial artery is thrust somewhat outwards. Then, the trapezium is detached from the rest of the carpus, by means of cutting-pliers applied in a line with the longitudinal part of the incision but the removal of this bone is postponed until the rest of the carpus has been taken away, when it can be dissected out without much difficulty ; the one procedure also not endangering the radial artery, the other having that risk The soft parts on the ulnar side of the incision are dissected up from the carpus as far as may be convenient, the remainder being raised by the second or uhiar incision. ■, j. ^ • i. This incision, a free one, should commence at least two inches above the end of the ulna, immediately anterior to the bone ; it is carried down between it and the flexor carpi ulnaris, and onwards m a straio-ht line to the middle of the fifth metacarpal bone at its palmar aspect. The dorsal lip of this incision is raised, and the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris is cut at its insertion into the base of the fifth metacarpal bone, and is dissected up from its groove m the ulna, without isolating it from the integuments, which would endanger its vitality. Then the extensor tendons of the fingers are readily sepa- rated from the carpus, the hand being bent back to relax them, and the dorsal and inter-nal lateral ligaments of the wrist-joint are divided; leaving the connections of the tendons with the radius undisturbed. The anterior surface of the ulna is, cleared, turning the knife towards the bone to avoid the artery and nerve, the articulation of the pisiform bone is opened—if not already done in making the incision—and the flexor tendons are separated from the carpus, the hand being depressed to relax them. To accomplish this, the process of the unciform bone must be clipped ofE with pliers, but the pisiform bone is left attached to the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. In raising the tendons, the knife must not pass below the bases of the matacarpal bones, to avoid wounding the deep palmar arch. The anterior ligament of the wrist- joint is now divided. Then, intro- ducing the pliers, the junction be- tween the carpus and the metacarpus is severed, thus completely detaching the whole carpus, which is extracted en masse with sequestrum-forceps,—leaving the trapezium and pisiform bones. (Fig. 518.) * Diagram showing upper and lower lines, and portions of bone included, for excision of the wrist.—a, deep palmar arch; b, trapezium; c, articular surface of iiead of ulna. (Lister.)