894 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Laugier and Roux ; making a total of about a score cases. All were fatal in their results, although four of them were questionably success- ful for a time—two by Dr. Patter, of New York ; one by Dr. Blair; and perhaps a fourth by Dr. Gordon, of Dublin. If compression of the cord from haemorrhagic extravasation could be diagnosed, the risk of trephining might be warranted, and the operation afford some relief; but, with compression from depressed fracture, the damage to the cord remains, pZtis the danger arising from the operation. In the case of an open wound, depressed fragments may be extracted, as in a case by Louis. Otherwise, this practice is properly condemned by Listen, Brodie, Malgaigne, and Gibson. In gunshot fracture of the spine, the removal of depressed fragments is not followed by any suc- cessful results of recovery, as with regard to the functions of the cord; except perhaps in cases where a broken spinous process has beeu removed,—without thus relieving compression, or exposing the cord This conclusion is fully established by an examination of the cases of such operative procedure by American Surgeons, in the War which has contributed so much rich experience to the annals of Military Surgery. The operation of trephining, in gunshot fracture, is as little sanctioned by the results of this experience ; although the lodgment of a ball in the soft parts presents a complication which may be dealt with according to the general principles of treatment in gunshot wounds. Bed-sores are produced by ulceration of a gangrenous character, as the consequence of prolonged pressure on prominent parts of the body, during any long and exhausting confinemeiit to bed. But, in the practice of Surgery, bed-sores are specially apt to form in the course of fracture or other injury of the spine, which necessitates continued recumbency. The skin over the sacrum, more particularly, or other points, as the spinous processes of the vertebrae, the spines of the scapulse, the trochanters, and the heels, is liable to undergo congestive iuflammation and ulceration from continued pressure; these parts chiefly being in contact with the bed on which the patient lies. A con- gestive patch, here or there, appears, of a purplish-brown colour, attended with a pricking sensation, as if bread-crumbs were under the part; sloughing soon follows, involving the subcutaneous cellular texture, and thus forming an ulcer, which may not itself be of large size, but which is more or less extensively undermined. The inte- gument can perhaps be lifted up as a flap around the ulcer. A thin sanious fluid exudes. This sore may remain stationary, but indolent and indisposed to heal. Or, the marginal skin melts away progres- sively, and the base of the ulcer deepens; so that the tendinous expan- sion over the sacrum may come away in shreds, and the bone be laid bare. Sometimes the tubercles of this bone become necrosed. Per- haps, spinal meningitis supervenes. At last, the patient sinks from exhaustion. The formation of bed-sores is provoked by irritation or maceration of the integument, by perspiration, urine, or feculent matter havmg saturated the bed, from want of cleanliness; but there is always a special predisposition to such ulceration in enfeebled and aged persons; while the influence of paralysis and of certain blood-diseases is wit- nessed in the frequency of bed-sores after injury to the spme, ana i the course of pycemia or septicemia, typhus, or other fevers, rr -