EXTRACTION OF TEETH. 831 practice to grasp one root (the strongest) of a lower molar with stump- Fnrcens in preference to grasping the whole with ordinary lower molar forceps'as in the event of only one root being thus extracted the •emoval of the other will be easy, whereas a lower molar once broken in an unsuccessful attempt at its removal is an exceeding difficult tooth ^'^ ^Sometimes a tooth is decayed down to that stage when its removal Pntire is all but impossible, whilst the several roots yet cohere so sfcrono-lv as to render their separate removal with stump-forceps very Uncertain; this is especially apt to happen with upper molars It becomes necessary to divide the roots, and this is best done by drill- ino- with the engine employed by dentists for many operations a deep T)it in the centre of the stump (a painless operation, such teeth being ilmost always dead); into this hole a spear-pointed elevator or the eleva- tor blade of my own stamp-forceps is introduced, and the tooth split. The removal of the individual roots will then be easy. The elevator is a very useful instrument for the extraction of lower wisdom teeth, and of many stumps ; the most useful forms have blades terminating in smaU spear-points, or in a concave, sharp-edged blade, similar to one jaw of a pair of stump-forceps. The elevator is employed as a lever, making use of a neighbouring tooth as a fulcrum ; it is a dancrerous instrument in unskilful hands, but invaluable m skilled ones! It should always be so grasped that but a short length pro]ects unguarded beyond the operator's thumb, and the left hand should be held so as at the same time to steady the jaw, and guard against the chances of a slip. There are teeth which it is impossible to remove without undue ' violence and injury to surrounding parts, but such are seldom met ' with. Thus, sometimes, lower wisdom teeth are so impacted between 1 the ascending ramus and the second molar that they cannot be safely 1 removed, and the second molar may have to be sacrificed. But an ( elevator, in skilled and careful hands, wiU often prize out such a tooth ( even when it looks very unpromising. _ When many teeth have been simultaneously removed, the breath is : rendered foetid and the patient caused much discomfort by the decom- I posing blood-clots in the mouth, and sometimes by ulceration of the • wounded gums. The use of a disinfectant wash adds much to comfort I and healthy action, and some such formula as this is both efficient^and i agreeable:—Acid carbolici, 3j.; Hq. potassae, 3j.; eau de Cologne, jss.; I aquse, ad. ^ss.; a teaspoonf ul to be added to a wine-glass of water. _ The most frequent untoward accident resulting from the extraction . of a tooth is persistent hemorrhage. In this event the socket should be thoroughly cleaned from blood-clots, and well syringed with cold ■ water; mild styptics should be applied, such as an ethereal solution of 1 tannin, or dry tannin introduced on wool, and with this the socket . carefully plugged till it is full, pressure being made upon it by a pad : above it, on which the teeth are kept closed by means of a chin ban- ' dage. The most efficient material with which a socket can be plugged is matico leaf, softened in warm water; but this is a little difficult of ; application, and not always at hand. The object should be to stay the ■ bleeding mainly by mechanical means, or by inducing the formation ' of a firm clot in the socket, rather than by powerful styptics such as- perchloride of iron or nitrate of silver, which leave the mouth in a very