SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 790 symptoms pass off. No difficulty can bo experienced in distinffnishinff any such attack from that of retention of urine. With suppression, in addition to the other symptoms, no urine is passed, or only a few drops, and the introduction of a catheter fails to obtain any; nor is there supra-pubic dulness on percussion, the bladder being empty. This arrest of the urinary secretion may be referable to various causes- a symptom of many diseases. Commonly arising from disease of the^ kidneys, as congestion, or of a structural character, as in Bnght's disease, suppression of urine not unfrequently proceeds from some powerful impression on the nervous system, as the shock of injury or surgical operation. But it may also occur in the course of fevers, or other blood-poisoning. According to this diversity of causa- tion—by renal or systemic disease—the suppression may be gradual and incomplete, yet fatal; or an attack, sudden and complete, but perhaps of temporary duration. Treatment can do very little to restore the secretion of urine. But the effort should be promptly made, by cupping the loins, or dry- cupping ; with sudorific medicines, the warm bath or hot-air bath, in order to promote sweating, and purgative enemata, thus also to aid the elimination of excrementitious matters. Whether stimulant diuretics should be administered to force the kidneys to renew their function, is a very questionable practice, both in regard to its efficacy and safety. For this purpose, however, cantharides has been given in grain doses, Fig. 933.* Fig. 934.1 coupled with the application of a large blister to the loins ; and this method of treatment is said to have proved successful in some instances. Urinary Abscess.—Suppuration circumscribed by plastic matter, forming an abscess, is liable to occur close to the urethra in some part of its extent. It may arise from any source of urethral irritation; usually the collection of urine in the dilatation be- hind a stricture, or from urethritis, or'simply from irritation of the passage of instruments. The suppuration is apparently induced either by ulceration of the mucous membrane, allowing of slight urinary extravasation into the sub-urethral cellular texture (Fig. 933), and which thus becomes a direct source of irritation; or, abscess * Koy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2551. Stricture of the urethra, with small abscess iu the hulh, communicating. Bladder thickened, (histon.) . t Ibid., 2549. A short but very narrow stricture of the urethra, half an inch anterior to the bulb; abscesses within, and adjacent to, the prostate gland, which communicate with eacli other; yet none of these abscesses open into the urethra,. nor externally. Bladder thickened. (Langstaif)