631 UEINARY DEPOSITS. quantity is increased generally. The reaction varies—being alkaline or neutral, or slightly acid when first evacuated. The deposit of phosphates appears as a white sand, but generally combined with mucus, often present in large quantity, and pus, probably, in variable quantity. Diagnostic Value.—Phosphatic urine, as ordinarily estimated by the amount of phosphates deposited in the urine, is deceptive. Phosphatic urine, in this sense, is only an appearance, not a true measure of the whole amount of phosphates present, and of the pre-existing blood- condition. The pathological significance of phosphatic deposits in the urine has been investigated more particularly by Dr. Bence J ones. Of all the phosphates present, not necessarily deposited, in the urine, those of soda are most abundant; equalling in amount three or four parts of the whole. The earthy phosphates of lime and mag- nesia represent the remainder. Phosphatic urine, therefore, should rather, of the two, have reference to the former salts. But the phos- phates of soda are so very soluble in water and in acid or alkaline urine, that they are never deposited. In this respect resembling the sulphates of potash or soda, any excess of these phosphates remains concealed. On the contrary, the phosphates of lime and magnesia are scarcely soluble in water, and nearly insoluble in alkalies, although very soluble in acids, even in acid phosphate of soda. Therefore, whenever the urine becomes alkaline, down go the phosjahates of lime and magnesia. This precipitate, however, denotes only the quantity of lime and magnesia drawn from the blood, and now appearing in the urine. The major portion of pJiosphoric acid, being combined with soda, remains unobserved. By taking more lime or magnesia in the food, or by adding these bases to the urine, we increase the amount of earthy phosphates; and by a sufficiency, we precipitate all the phosphoric acid in combination with them, thus leaving no phosphate of soda in solution. Conversely, if we could abstract all the lime and magnesia, no precipitate would appear by adding alkalies—in which, as well as acids, phosphate of soda is soluble—though there remained a great excess of phosphate of soda concealed in solution. But if lime and magnesia are present, as usual, in the urine, a portion of the phosphoric acid appears in com- bination with them, forming a deposit of these phosphatic salts when- ever the urine becomes alkaline, in which they are insoluble. Hence the more appropriate name, alkaline urine, suggested by Dr. Bence Jones, rather than phosphatic urine, as ordinarily understood, which represents merely the amount of lime and magnesia present in com- bination with phosphoric acid. If regarded from this latter point of view, the term " phosphoric diathesis " should be extended to denote an increase in the total amount of phosphates, alkaline and earthy; or, if limited to one phosphate, it ought to denote alkaline phosphate, that being proportionately four or five times more abundant than earthy phosphates in the urine. Moreover, the term " earthy diathesis," as in- dicated by the urine, if used at all, ought to signify urine which really contains an excess of lime and magnesia, and not the precipitation, it may be of only a small quantity, of those earthy salts, the urine having lost its healthy property of retaining them in solution on becoming alkaline.