SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 470 the sac has not been Bubject to hernial protrusion for some time. As affecting the neck, such change is at once perilous and curative; the one, by inducing strangulation, in the event of a hernial descent of any ; the other, by leading to obliteration of the neck of the sac. During all these changes in the structural condition of the sac, the visceral layer of peritoneum, which invests the protrusion, retains its thin and transparent texture, with its polished, serous secreting sur- face,—in contact with that of the interior of the sac, whenever the hernial protrusion descends. Abdominal Parietes—and their Structural Changes.—The layers of different textures, constituting the abdominal parietes, through which a Hernial protrusion successively passes, form what are termed the cover- ings or investments of Hernia, in addition to the peritoneal sac. The aperture or apertures in the parietes, through which the protrusion begins, corresponds to the neck of the sac. Both the aperture and the coverings undergo remarkable changes, which may almost or altogether efface the original anatomical characters of these parts. The changes here referred to are partly mechanical, and partly textural. The hernial aperture becomes altered in shape, assuming a circular form, and enlarged, while its relative position is gradually displaced, and usually towards the middle line; two apertures thus forming one, as that of the abdominal rings in oblique inguinal hernia. The coverings of hernia gradually become stretched and loose, so that the skin appears redundant and wrinkled, when an old hernia is reduced. Textural changes consist in thickening and induration of the parietal aperture; and in the obliteration of the individual characters of the coverings, which are more or less fused into one, and with which the sac is consolidated. (See Fig. 774.) All these changes result from detrusion and pressure by the hernial protrusion, operating mechanically on the parts, or inducing textural degeneration and atrophy; or textural transformation may be the result of inflamma- tory adhesion,—consequent on the constant pressure of a truss-pad, a blow, or excessive manipulation. The general atrophy which the coverings of hernia undergo is not shared by all alike; for often the subperitoneal cellular tissue becomes loaded with granular fat, looking Kke omentum, but enclosing the sac. Sometimes cysts form around the sac; either as the result of obliter- ated abortive hernial sacs, according to Cloquet's description, or as an independent cystic develop- ment in the subperitoneal cellular tissue. Thus, then, the whole Pathology of Hernia must be re- garded as a more important aspect of study than its pure Anatomy. Contents of the Sac—and their Structural Changes.—All the abdominal viscera are severally subject to Hernia, though not with equal fre- quency; the pancreas, it is said, alone excepted. The contents of a Hernial sac, therefore, vary con- siderably. They are usually the intestine or omen- tum conjointly or singly; the small intestine, particularly the ileum, * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 1297. Portion of jejunum, which was stransulated ia an umbilical hernia. (John Howship.])