SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 8G2 whose mind is too readily acted upon by either exciting or depressing causes. Hence, the explanation of a commonly received erroneous belief; that the more advanced the disease the greater, and the earlier the stage of the disease the less, is the probability of recovery. Keith prefers a patient who has been obviously worn by the disease. (2.) Age.—Below the age of twenty, and between forty and fifty, the mortality is less than that between twenty and forty, or above fifty'. (3.) Social condition.—In Hospital cases, the mortality is about 30-4 per cent.; in Private cases, about 30-6 per cent.; or nearly identical. (4.) Adhesions of the tumour.—Adhesions to the abdominal wall omentum, or intestines appear to have little, if any, influence upon the mortality; so that the importance which has been attached to the diagnosis of these adhesions before operation has been very greatly and unnecessarily exaggerated. But adhesions within the pelvis, to the bladder or rectum, or around the brim of the pelvis, are very signi- ficant ; as they may be inseparable without great and immediate danger to life, by injury to these organs, or to the iliac vessels of the ureters. Adhesions to the under surface of the liver or spleen are also of grave import. The diagnosis of sioch adhesions is of the utmost importance. (5.) Size of the tumour has not, by itself, appeared to affect the result; but size and solidity together are important in so far as they affect the length of incision requisite for removal of the tumour. In 100 cases, it was necessary to carry the incision above the umbilicus in 20 patients. Of these, 9 died; a mortality of 45 per cent. In 80 cases, the incision did not extend above the umbilicus. Of these, 25 died ; a mortality of 31 per cent., or 14 per cent, in favour of the short incision. (6.) Influence of Tapping.—As affecting the operation of Ovario- tomy, the prior performance of Tapping has certain relations which are indicated by Mr. Spencer Wells's third series of 100 cases:—That one or many tappings do not considerably increase the mortality of ovario- tomy. That tapping may often be a useful prelude to the operation; either by giving time for the general health to improve, or by lessening the shock when the fluid is withdrawn a few days or hours before removing the more solid part of an ovarian tumour. That when the siphon-trocar is used in such a manner as to prevent the escape of ovarian fluid into the peritoneal cavity, and the entrance of air into the cyst, the danger of tapping is very small. Operation.—The Instruments requisite for Ovariotomy are—scalpels, director, a large trocar and cannula, or two, and elastic tube, strong vulsellum-forceps, cautery-irons and clamp, whipcord ligatures, strong nsevus-needles for carrying ligatures, stout and long hare-lip pins, and silver-wire sutures ; Keith's drainage-tubes, strips of new flannel, and large fresh sponges, soaked in warm water. The room should be raised in temperature to 70° or 75° F.; and the patient remain if possible in the room after operation. No special preparation of the patient is necessary; excepting that the bowels should have been opened by a gentle aperient of castor oil on the day previous to, and by an enema on the morning of, operation; and the patient should be in her usual health. The application of Lister's antiseptic method to ovariotomy is warmly advocated by Keith, Barnes, and others. They entertain no