HERNIA. 471 more probably than any otber abdominal viscus, owing to its long mesenteric attacliment and its hanging near the abdominal apertures tbrouo-h which hernise commonly take place—namely, the inguinal and femoral rings. The quantity of intestine protruded may be small—a knuckle of Intestine (Fig. 775), or not even the whole of its circum- ference (Fig. 776), or it may extend to several feet in length. Omentum, varying in quantity, is folded together, or perhaps matted into a cylindrical mass ; when unfolded, it has a triangular or fan shape, the base being below and the apes upwards at the abdominal aper- ture. Old herniated omentum loses its peculiar ramified adipose cellular texture, and becomes consolidated; the veins assuming a somewhat vari- cose condition. Sometimes apertures form in it, through which a coil of intestine passing, strangulation may happen within the sac. Cysts, oc- casionally, form in the omentum, and into which the intestine may slip. When intestine and omentum co- exist in the sac, usually the omen- tum descends in front, and will be , found to enclose and conceal the intestine, on opening the sac. This is explained by the situation of the great omentum, which hangs as an apron from the greater curvature of the stomach, immediately behind the abdominal wall; and thus also omentum is more often protruded in umbilical and inguinal than in crural hernise. Occasionally, other viscera are herniated; the stomach, liver, spleen, csecum, sigmoid flexure, or other portion of the colon, bladder, uterus, ovaries, or even the kidney. Serous fluid, of a yellowish or brownish colour, and transparent, is always found within a hernial sac, but in very variable quantity. Usually only sufficient to lubricate the interior and contents of the sac, this fluid may be the principal constituent, amounting to several ounces, and distending the sac. It is copiously secreted when the sac is inflamed or the hernia strangulate'd, and most abundantly in inguinal herniae. Adventitious or false membranes, forming adhesions, are met with.; either as the product of inflammation in strangulated hernia, or as the result of changes in old irreducible hernia. The situation, length, thickness, and density of these adhesions present many diEerences of appearance. Thus, adhesions may have formed between the interior of the sac and its contents, in the shape of uniting bands, or as bridles across the sac from one side to the other, imprisoning the contained viscera; or again, adhesions may have taken place between the latter, as between two coils of intestine, or between intestine and omentum. * Eoy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 1302. An -unreduced straBgulated femoral hernia; in part only of the circumference of the bowel; showing also contraction of the in- testine before the strictured part, and dilatation of the part behind it. The patient, a woman aged thirty-five, had a rupture for several years; this was reduced from time to time, until on one occasion symptoms of strangulation set in, and continued after reduction had been accomplished; straining and vomiting reproduced the hernia, which now could not bo returned. An operation was proposed by the Surgeon, Mr. Thomson, and refused. (Huntcrian.)