SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND 8URGERY. 834 testicle increases with a tolerably steady, but on the whole rapid, pro- gress, it attains to a large size; the tunica albuginea yielding under pressure to a very great extent without rupture. At length it bursts Ftg. 0(18 # Fig. 964.t and the mass protrudes as a bleeding fungus through the ulcerated skin. (Fig. 964.) The disease extends along the cord to the abdomen, and the lumbar glands become involved ; secondary cancer also being developed in other organs. Death ensues ; usually, in about eighteen months or two years. Signs.—Enlargement of the testicle, as a solid, heavy tumour, of rapid growth, is the almost infallible indication of Encephaloid cancer. Tlie unbroken tunica albuginea gives a hardness uniformly over the tumour, and a smoothness of surface, which really does not belong to encephaloid cancer; and which ceases subsequently, as the mass softens at parts into an elastic, pulpy, semi-fluctuating tumour, or when the tunic is ruptured and the mass protrudes. There is commonly little tenderness or pain ; or if there be, it is dull, not acute or lancinating. When the cord has become involved, it is enlarged, and feels thickened and full; so that the vas deferens cannot be distinguished. Shooting pains extend along the cord to the groin and loins. As the disease advances, constitutional symptoms are evinced by cachexia, and a breaking down of the general health ; the patient having been at an early period of the disease often in a robust, fleshy, and florid condition of health. The age when cancer of the testicle most commonly appeal's is from twenty to forty; it is rare after sixty, but it may be met with at any period of life, from the eai'liest infancy to old age. The diagnosis from other tumours of the testicle is mainly deter- mined by the solidity and weight of Cancer Tumour, with its rapid growth; but it must be distinguished from acute orchitis, and from * St. Mary's Hosp. Mus., K. e. 11. Medullary cancer of testicle; section, show- ing cystic form of the cancer-substance, which was soft and elastic, of whitish colour, but marked in parts with brownish pink and blood spots. Some of the cysts contain others—sub-cysts; and, under the microscope, the contained substance con- sisted principally of large cells, including nuclei and nucleoli. The tumour was the size of a large cocoa-nut ; and is distinctly enveloped by a dense fibrous capsule (not seen in figure). It had been growing for seven years, with little pain until the last two years ; but the patient's suffering had never been severe. His age, forty- three. Castration was performed; and, on leaving the Hospital, he was quite well. (William Coulson.) t Hoy. L'oU. Surg. Mus., 2.S9G c. (Canton.)