84 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. (3.) St. Bartholomew's Hospital; St. Thomas's Hospital; Guy's Hospital; St. Mary's Hospital; King's College Hospital; London Hospital; Westminster Hos- pital- Cliaring Cross Hospital; Royal Free Hospital; Great Northern Hospital; Royal Albert Hospital, Devonport; Royal Sea-Bathing Infirmary, Margate; Chal- mers'Hospital, Edinburgh; period, 1870. No cases. In each of these Hospitals, the period is that of five years; and the returns were made to me by those Surgeons whoso names are severally affixed in tlie previous tables. Excision of the Elbow-joint, foe Injury.—This operation appears to have been first performed by Wainman, of Shripton, in 1758 or 1759 ; the case having been one of compound dislocation, the articular end of the humerus was removed just above the olecranon fossa. The patient recovered, and with a flexible arm, " as if nothing had ever been amiss " This operation is famous in the history of Excisional Suro-ery of the Joints, on account of its very early date. Subsequently Tvre of Gloucester, removed two inches and a haH of the lower end ot the humerus, for a compound dislocation. Larrey urged this excision upon his Surgeons, but, according to Percy, without much effect; "timidity, carelessness, routine, and indifference (words to be remem- bered) too often led them to prefer imputation, even under the very eyes of the old chieftain of Military Surgery.'' In 1840, Mr Alcock could find no instance of the co^nplefe excision of the elbow-pint, m the annals of either British or French Military Surgery. It was not until the Schleswio-.Holstein War of 1848-51, that this operation was really introduced iSto Military practice, by B. Langenbeck, of Berlin, and L Stromeyer, of Erlangen. Excision of the _elbow-]oint for in]ury is, indeed, more often required in warfare than m Gml practice; though the nature of the injuries, and the circumstances of the patient after operation, may, as with regard to other joints, render the prospect ot recovery less favourable in the one case than m the other. ConcUtions of Injury appropriate for Exciswn.--(l.) Compound and comminuted fracture of the elbow-jomt. (2.) Compound dislocation. (S ) Gunshot wound, involving the joint. _ _ Fissures of the humerus, just above the ]0int, more commonly ex- tend downward than upward. The track of a ball near the jomt often induces caries, which would ultimately require excision But the st^te of the integument, and of the brachial artery and the nerves, at the bend of the elbow, will regulate the propnety of this operation instead of amputation. ^ ^ i. r ^- oc.^ ^ The operation, and afier-treatment, are analogous to that for disease ■TtesuUs —In twelve cases of severe injury to the elbow-joint reported bv Mr Jonathan Hutchinson, the results were decidedly m favour ot excision rather than of either natural cure or primary amputation In elbow-joint apparently preserved by the reduction of compound fracture or dislocation, is apt to entail profuse suppuration and con- stitutional disturbance, perhaps necessitating amputation of the arm, or the motion and consequent use of the arm eventually is less than aJter removal of the ends of bone. Both these conclusions are estab- bshed by Mr. Hutchinson's cases ; and the latter, as to the use of the arm is confirmed by Macleod's report of the Surgery m the CnmeaB W^r in Civil Hospitals, the success of operation is very remarkable, of twen?y-one cases, autiienticated by Dr. R. Hodges, - l-^-f^^* Wise on Joint-Excisions, a rapid recovery ensued m all but one, the fata result of which was in no way attributable to the opemtion.