783 RETENTION OF URINE. dulness on percussion over that region, extending upwards at length perhaps to the umbilicus. This is accompanied with much distress and constitutional disturbance. Various causes may give rise to retention of urine, but they are all reducible to two classes : that o£ defective expulsive power, in paralysis involving the abdominal muscles and bladder; and that of ohstruction to the passage of urine, as dependent on prostatic enlargement from any cause,—inflammation, chronic hypertrophy, or tumour of a sufficient size to block up the internal meatus of the urethra; perineal abscess, occasionally; stricture of the iirethra, organic, spasmodic, or inflamma- tory ; urethral tumours, calculi, or other foreign bodies in the urethra, occasionally. Unrelieved retention of urine leads generally to rupture of the urethra, and especially when the source of obstruction is in the urethra, the canal yielding behind that point, and this event being followed by extravasation of urine; rarely, rupture of the bladder occurs in conse- quence of retention. Treatment.—Retention of urine must of course be regarded with reference to the removal of its cause ; but the bladder admits of beino- entered, and the accumulated urine drawn off, in five different ways :— (1) by catheterism ; (2) incision of the urethra through, or behind, the obstruction, usually in the perineum ; (3) puncture of the bladder through the rectum, (4) above the pubes, or (5) through the symphysis pubis. Catheterism.—This mode of gaining admission to the bladder will usually succeed, in conjunction with the treatment for any temporary spasmodic or inflammatory obstruction, which may have become en- grafted on an organic stricture, from some excess or from exposure to^ wet or cold—the circumstances under which retention generally arises. Accordingly, a small-sized catheter is selected, about No. 4 or smaller, silver or gum-elastic; and the instrument introduced with due attention to gentleness, caution, and patience. The stricture may often yield more readily than might have been anticipated, when retention is present, owing to the dilatation effected by the pressure of urine above ; or on withdrawing the instrument from just the entrance of the stricture, the urine will often follow in a full stream. If the Surgeon fails in thus affording relief by catheterism, he should have recourse to relaxatives or local blood-letting, as the case may be. With spasmodic stricture, the patient should be placed in a warm hip-bath and opium given by the mouth, or in the form of enema or suppositorv' or chloroform administered ; the latter agent being of great value m overcoming both voluntary and involuntary muscular resistance With an inflammatory or congestive state of the urethral passage, as evinced by a turgid pems and tender perineum, local blood-lettino- from the latter region by cupping, or a dozen leeches, will often effectually sub- due this occasion of resistance. After either kind of auxiliary treat ment, the introduction of a catheter can generally be accomplished Recourse to auxiliary measures may be deemed advisable lefore attempting to pass an instrument, and certainly this would be better than any risk of injuring the urethra by rough manipulation. Forcible catheterism, or forcing the stricture, as it is termed will rarely be justifiable and never in the sense of thrusting a catheter anyhow into the bladder. The forcible dilatation or ruptu?e of an old