263 OPERATIONS ON TYMPANIC CAVITY. OTITIS MEDIA. case the catheter must be resorted to, as tlie passing of a current of air throno-li it from an india-rubber bag will often remove an obstruction whiclTwill not give way to Valsalva's method. The treatment of the pharyngeal mucous membrane, which is almost always alfected in catarrh of the middle ear, is an important step towards arresting this disease. It consists in the topical applications of astrin- trents, such as alum, tannin, or nitrate of silver. A useful method of doino-' this is, to draw a solution of alum up the nostril, allow it to pass back'into the naso-pharyngeal space, expectorate it, and then blow air violently through the nostrils. Where alum is not suflBcient for the condition of the pharynx, nitrate of silver may be applied in solutions of from 5ss. to 5i. to the ounce of water. The patient being seated in a o-ood hght, and the tongue being depressed with a tongue spatula, he is "desired to take a deep inspiration, at which moment the Surgeon passes the brush, previously dipped in a solution of nitrate of silver, back to the opening of one of the Eustachian tubes. He then passes it quickly upwards, over the roof of the naso-pharyngeal space, to the Eustachian tube on the opposite side. Grargles are also of benefit to the membrane, the most useful being preparations ;of akim or iodine. These shotild be used by the patient at home, twice a day, between the applications of the caustic. The nasal douche is recommended by Professor Gruber and others, but must be used with caution. This consists of a syringe, the nozzle of .which fills one nostril, while the other nostril is closed by the fingers of the operator. A current of some astringent solution is injected by the syringe up one nostril and so into the other, the obstruction to its exit from the other nostril by the fingers regulating the force with which it acts on the pharyngeal walls. But this method is not safe, except for those accustomed to its use, as it is so difiicalt to regulate the force with which the solution acts on the naso-pharyngeal walls with regard to the resistance of the Eustachian tube, that the fluid may pass through it and into the tympanic cavity with a force that may do serious damage. Oioerations on the Tympanic Cavity.—The operations performed on the membrana tympani and structure of the cavity are—perforation of the membrane, division of the adhesions, and tenotomy of the tensor tympani. Perforation of the membrane has been already described. The diagnosis and determination of the exact position of adhesions can be made by means of Siegle's pneumatic speculum. The portions of the membrane which are bound down by adhesions, and do not fall forward into the vacuum, can be easily seen. Tenotomy of the tensor iympani is indicated where the membrane is concave and almost im- movable ; the most favourable cases for its performance being those which are partially relieved by the air douche, but in which a per- manent improvement is not effected by that means. This operation and division of the adhesions are performed by means of curved bis- touries, or revolving cutting-hooks made for the purpose; but it requires considerable experience in the diagnosis and treatment of aural affections to be certain of the necessity for such operations and the benefit likely to be derived from them. Otitis Media, or Purulent Catarrh, is a higher grade of simple catarrh, in which purulent discharge is mingled with the increased secretion of mucus. The symptoms are the same as those of simple catarrh, but