STRANGULATED HERNIA. 497 opposite conditions of youth, and age, strength and decrepitude, temperance and intemperance, and the peculiarities of the individual. I have known peritonitis after herniotomy to be attended with singu- larly persistent abdominal symptoms, such as tenderness and tym- panitis, yet without any notable constitutional disturbance. The loound may heal partially or entirely by primary adhesion. But if inflammation and suppuration ensue, the sutures should be with- drawn, here and there, to allow of the free escape of discharge. Healing then takes place by granulation and cicatrization. When the patient gets up, he should wear a truss for some time, to support the part as yet in a weakened state. It may be disused, when there is no tendency to protrusion on coughing or other exertion. The prognosis of strangulated hernia, in regard to the mortality after operation, will be determined; partly by the relative statistical results of operation, with reference to opening or not opening to the sac, as already shown; but principally by consideration of the previous duration of strangulation, and the taxis to which the tumour has been subjected. The influence of strangulation has been shown by Luke's statistics, as to the results of operation for Strangulated Hernia. Duration of life after Operation.—In 20 fatal cases operated on. by Mr. Birkett in Guy's Hospital, the periods of survival were as follows:—■ 1 survived only 17 hours. 5 4 1 1 3 1 24 hours, and less than 48 hours. 5> )) )5 72 48 72 96 144 168 _ ;; _ „ 192 3 survived longer periods, but with artificial anus. 1 died of bronchitis. 96 120 168 In Bryant's collection of 126 cases, more than half the patients died within 48 hours, the second day being most fatal; and four-fifths died within the first week. The causes of death were (Birkett's cases) :— Artificial anus, etc. . . 3 Prostration .... 5 Acute peritonitis . . 8 Perforation of bowel . . 1 Bronchitis and cachexia . 2 Neglect to seek surgical aid 1 Two-thirds, at least, of these patients lost their lives by the previous delay of operation for the liberation of the bowel; although this was done as soon as possible after admission to Hospital. In 26 fatal cases, out of 127, operated on by Professor Spence, the causes of death were :— Gangrene of bowel ...... Peritonitis, which had commenced prior to operation, these were congenital hernise .... Pyaemia, fatal on 8th day ..... JMelsena Four of 17 7 1 1 VOL. II. 26 2 EC