251 OTITIS EXTERNA. after chronic eczema, in long attacks of otitis externa, and in disease of the middle ear. Their appearance, in the meatus, resembles that of "coal-dust blown upon white sand" or fine meal blown into the ear; the tissue beneath being reddened and tender. They are accompanied by severe pain, with tinnitus and deafness. Many modes of treatment are proposed, but frequent syringing with warm water or alcohol and water will sufiice in all cases. If the meatus is not kept thoroughly clean, this parasite may be reproduced in a few hours. Molluscous or Sebaceous Tumours of the meatus are formed by collec- tions of flakes of epidermis enclosed in a membrane. They may occur at all times of life, but are most frequent amongst the old. Though composed of comparatively innocuous material, they have the power of causing absorption of the bone with which they lie in immediate contact, passing through it with a clean-cut aperture without affecting the bony sides of the canal thus formed, and causing symptoms of pressure on the parts beyond. It may be distinguished from exostosis by its being less resistant to pressure. The treatment consists in laying open the tumour, washing out the accumulated epidermis with the syringe, and withdrawing the lining membrane with the forceps. Inflammation of the 'External Auditory Meatus, or Otitis Externa, is an inflammatory affection of the superficial integument of the meatus, in severe cases affecting more or less the periosteum, and generally involvin g the entire surface of the canal and the surface of the membrana tympani. The symptoms are variable in different cases, but at the commence- ment of the attack the patient usually complains of a continual irrita- tion of the canal, with a feeling of heat and dryness. This passes on to pain shooting all over the affected side of the head, increasing ab night and leading to loss of sleep and febrile symptoms. It is increased by every movement of the head, and especially of the jaw. Deafness will also be present in this disease in proportion as the membrane is more or less involved. After this congested condition has lasted two or three days a white watery discharge appears, which gradually assumes a mucous character, this in its turn giving way to a yellow purulent appearance. When this purulent secretion occurs, the paiu and other distressing symptoms of numbness and fulness, of which the patient had before complained, suddenly disappear. The affection may now either come to a favourable termination without treatment, or, as is more frequently the case, become chronic, the patient suffering from repeated acute attacks. On account of the painful swelling and infiltration of the tissues, it 18 diflicult, in examining the ear, to make an accurate diagnosis as to the condition of the canal, especially of the deeper parts; the introduc- tion of the speculum causing pain, particularly about the middle of the meatus, which is peculiarly sensitive. Before the parts can be well Been, the saturated white scales of epidermis and the secretion which IS often adherent to the walls must be removed carefully with a syringe or forceps. "When a view of the membrane is obtained, it is found, in those cases in which it is implicated (and a Surgeon is rarely consulted before it is so), that the vessels are increased in size and fully injected; or, in a later stage of the affection, the single vessels are no longer visible, the appearance uf tho membrane corresponding to that of the