737 INFLAMMATION OF THE PROSTATE, OR PROSTATITIS. Fig, 901.* matter; taking care to avoid the rectum. With this view the fore- finger of the left hand should be passed into the bowel; a lon<'-, straight, and narrow, sharp-pointed bistoury used, and the edo-e be directed upwards. The depth to which the incision must be carried will be an inch and a half to two inches, and it is extended straio-ht upwards in the raphe just sufficiently to give a fair patulous aperture. Relief is immediate. If no pus makes its appearance, the relief of tension and pain will be effected, and the matter may escape throuo-h the wound after poulticing for a few hours. Thus, then, communica- tion with the urethra or rectum is prevented. Puncture through the rectum has been made occasionally, when fluctuation was distinctly felt in that situation. It may be desirable to draw off the urine, from time to time, by a well-curved gum-elastic catheter, or even to keep the bladder empty by retaining the instrument, if it can be tolerated; thus to prevent any accumulation of urine in the cavity of the abscess, which would be a source of continued suppuration. In passing the catheter, its point should be directed along the roof of the urethra, when the turn is made under the pubic arch ; thus to avoid slipping into the cavity of the abscess, which would seem to have occurred in the following instructive case. (Pig. 901.) The specimen here figured represents the bladder and prostatic urethra laid open from behind ; showing a large phosphatic calculus, having a median groove, as if from the constant passage of ui-ine—a " water-worn " stone. The pro- static urethra communicates with a large, smooth-walled (abscess ?) cavikj, just above the prostate, between the fundus of the blad- der and the vesiculge seminales; and this cavity seems to have displaced the bladder upwards and forwards. The course of the urethra into the bladder is indicated by a rod. The patient, fifty-five years old, had inability to retain his urine, but constant de- sire to pass more; with pain in making the ' effort, and other signs of stone in the blad- der. These symptoms increased in the course of seven years; but no stone could be detected by means of a sound, nor by the : finger per rectum; both modes of examina- 1 tion having been repeatedly tried. Purulent 1 urine supervened, and death from exhaus- ttion. The failure of vesical exploration 'Would appear to have been owing to the ■ sound passing into the above cavity; and by • displacement of the bladder upwards, the stone was beyond reach of rthe hnger through the rectum. Peri-prostatic abscess must be treated in like manner, there beino- no practical distinction between it and prostatic abscess " Chrome inflammation results in enlargement of the prostate; which s accompanied with frequent micturition, but a less forcible propul- \hZ/ """l? r ff""'^^' ^"'!""^'^ P^^'^^P^ by a drop or two of blood; usually also there is a gleety discharge, and the urine is railkv aand deposits more or less purulent matter on standing. Pain in sTxiIa^ * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2020. (R. B. Walker.) 3 b