"^^^ SPECIAL PATflOLOGY AND SURGERY. puncb, or Stimulating food and condiments, at supper-parties or con- vivial meetings, may be followed next morning by an attack of spasmodic stricture, especially in persons of a gouty diathesis. The restraints of society with regard to the retention of urine, the .outdoor amusements of hunting, steeplechasing, or other rough ridincr across country, are also circumstances under which spasmodic stricture is liable to occur. Or the picture may be reversed; the combined cttects ot cold and exhaustion drive many a homeless wanderer to seek relief at an Hospital during the early hours of our winter morn- ings. The anxiety and harass of business, the pressure of over-study, or of writing against time in newspaper offices, etc., not unfrequently subject the commercial and the literary classes of society to the penalty of an attack of urethral spasm. Treatment—The cause of spasm must be sought, and if possible removed. In an attack of spasmodic stricture, remedial measures should be directed to the relaxation of the muscular contraction. The most effectual antispasmodics are a warm bath, and a full dose of opium,—the tincture or Battley's sedative. I have used a drachm or more of the compound tincture of camphor with advantage. Chloroform, inhaled, has sometimes afforded instant relief. Supposi- tories have not had much effect. This antispasmodic treatment is most successful when the stricture arises from exposure to cold. But if the gouty diathesis prevails, or the circumstances of origin point to acidity of urine, then alkalies and other appropriate remedies must be combined. Catheterism should be avoided as long as possible, the introduction of an instrument tending to provoke spasm; and when resorted to, the catheter used should be full-sized, or at least one of the higher numbers. Inflammatory Strictubb.—An inflamed or congested state of the urethral mucous membrane may occasion a species of temporary stricture. It is less an independent condition, than engrafted on a pre- existing organic stricture, or coincident with spasm. The symptoms are somewhat peculiar. In addition to obstructed micturition, the penis is turgid and erectile, and the urethra bleeds freely on the introduction of even a moderate-sized catheter; there is intense scalding in passing urine, and the stream narrows rapidly during the act, ceasing abruptly before the bladder is emptied. The urine is, as it were, shot out at short intervals from the bladder, itself j in an irritable state. Perineal heat, fulness, and tenderness are com- ■I plained of, when the inflammation extends far back. In all these respects, inflammatory stricture contrasts with that produced by spasm. As causes of this kind of stricture may be mentioned retrocedent gonorrhcBa, or suppression of the discharge by exposure to cold or wet, or by an inconsiderate recoui'se to injections during the inflammatory stage. Indulgence in alcoholic liquors or a stimulating diet will also contribute to the inflammatory or congested state of the urethra. Treatment must be conducted on ordinary principles. This urethral condition resulting usually from suppressed gonoiThoja, it will subside on the reappearance of the discharge. Wrapping the penis in a poultice is a simple remedy which I have often found successful. Tumours in the Urethra.—Growths within the urethra, formerly known as " caruncles " or " carnositics " and supposed to be common, arc extremely rare. Their nature, according to Sir H. Thonip-son's 4