SPKCIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. fatal result. During the first twenty-four or forty-eight hours it happens from convulsions and sudden asphyxia; during the first few weeks, It IS apt to occur from inflammation of the luiTgs; and after some months have elapsed, death results from hectic exhaustion Ireatment.—The obvious indication is to get the foreign body out ot the windpipe ; but the proceeding to be taken should be guided hv the urgency of dyspnoea. (1.) Impaction in the rhna glottidis will demand—when opportunity offers—immediate search below the root ot the tongue with the finger, and extrication of the substance from the chink of the larynx. Failing to accomplish its removal, laryng- otomy must be performed immediately, and a probe passed through the laryngeal aperture into the larynx to dislodge the foreign body. (2.) Lodgment within the larynx, or trachea, may allow of some delay; in order to quiet spasm of the laryngeal muscles, which prevents the ejec- tion of a body, not itself too large to be coughed up. With this view, it may be desirable to bring the patient somewhat under the inflence of narcotics or chloroform. Inversion of the body—by holding the patient with his heels upwards and head downwards, shaking the body at the same time, or slapping the back—will probably cause the sub- stance to drop out of the air-passage and escape through the mouth. A child can be readily held, head downwards ; but for a grown person some mechanical contrivance may be necessary, such as was used in the case of the eminent engineer, Mr. Brunei, when he accidentally swallowed a half-sovereign. If suffocation threaten, the attempt must be abandoned. Laryngotomy or tracheotomy should be resorted to without delay, in the event of the foreign body still remaining in the windpipe. The respiration is thus set free, and the irritability of the laryngeal muscles subsides; so that the substance may be expelled through the larynx, or more probably through the artificial aperture. Sometimes, it can' be safely extracted, or made to drop out by inversion. The temporary absence of symptoms, such as convulsive cough, impending suffocation, or of any sound or movement as of the foreign body, might mislead the Surgeon as to the imperative necessity for operating ; but this treacherous quiescence will not justify the postponement of trache- otomy. Otherwise, the danger returning suddenly, even after the lapse of some days, the patient may die asphyxiated before surgical assis- tance can be obtained. Some such admonitory cases have occurred. Chloroform should not be administered when the foreign body, lyino- loose in the trachea, may possibly be ejected through the aperture, by an expulsive effort; but when the body is impacted, it must be ex- tracted, and then the introduction of an instrument will be much facilitated by the state of anesthesia. The results of cases, as left to nature or subjected to treatment, are well shown by the statistical facts collected by Professor Gross, re- specting 169 cases of foreign bodies in the air-passages. Spontaneous expulsion occurred in 57, 8 terminating fatally. Inversion of the body alone was successful in 6 cases, and unsuccessful in 6. In 68 cases, tracheotomy was performed ; 60 lived and 8 died. In 17, laryngotomy was practised; 13 lived and 4 died. In 13, laryngo-tracheotomy was performed ; and of these, 10 recovered and 3 died. It thus appears that of the 98 cases in which the windpipe was opened, for the removal of foreign bodies, 83 were successful, and 15 fatal,—or the deaths were