SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. G88 In entering the neck of the bladder, the feeling is that of passing over a small ring; without riding over the sort of chestnut-like pro- jection upwards of the prostate, and which may be like a half-orange in an elderly man. "When tlae prostate has been detached from the membranous urethra, and the neck of the bladder recedes before the point of the finger, all the presence of mind and dexterity of the Surgeon will be required at this trying moment of peril and anxiety. Much will depend on whether the staff still remains in the bladder, as a guide. If so, the forefinger should be passed most cautiously and gently along the groove, and a slight hooking movement made at the neck, so as to draw down this part. It may then be notched, by insinuating the knife along the finger, which can thus be fairly entered. If the staff be out of the bladder, or has been withdrawn, the position of both patient and Surgeon is most critical. It may be possible to reintroduce the instrument, and then proceed as just directed. Failing to accomplish the first step, the attempt to hook down the neck of the bladder should never be resorted to—in the absence of a guide. The finger or any searching instrument will only pass deeper and deeper with increasing damage, and inevitable death result. Moral courage is here the better part of valour, and any further operative interference should be reso- lutely abandoned. The urethra may heal, restoring the continuity of the canal, when the operation can be repeated and brought to a happy issue. Difficulties, and Accidents, during Lithotomy.—The Bifficulties which mav occur in the performance of the lateral operation relate either: (1) to entering the bladder; or.(2) to seizing and extracting the stone. The first occur more especially in operating on children, and have been already described ; the second kind of difficulties are met with more commonly in adults. In children, two difficulties are very liable to happen in endeavouring to enter the bladder : the for- mation of a false bladder in the recto-vesical space, and the incised or torn detachment of the neck of the bladder from the membranous urethra. In adidts, the first of these difficulties has occurred as the result of prolonged horing with the finger in the cellular interval between the bladder and rectum. (1.) A deep perineum presents obstacles to entering the bladder. The depth of perineum may be due to fat in a corpulent person, or to an enlarged prostate in an elderly person. Both conditions not un- frequently coexist, coupled also with an indurated state of the prostate. A forefino-er of average length can perhaps scarcely reach the bladder, if at all* and the prostatic condition of enlargement and rigidity obstructs the introduction of the finger. The blunt gorget, formerly in ordinary use, is here very appropriate; as affording the means of dilating the incomplete incision in the enlarged and indurated gland, and of gaining access to the bladder beyond reach of the finger. _ (2.) Seizure and extraction of the stone may present difficulties de- pendent on several conditions :—depth of the perineum, particularly when due to an Enlarged Prostate ; an Encysted, or an adherent state of the stone; the Position, Size, and Shape of the stone; Rickety deformity of the pelvis, in its antero-posterior diameter, or by narrow- ing of the pubic arch. These various conditions interfere with tbc use of the forceps, either in introducing the instrument into the bladder, or in seizing or in extracting the stone.