HEMORRHOIDS, EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL. 575 Piles may be removed by excision, ligature, or cauterization. The first method is applicable exclusively to external haemorrhoids; the latter two are appropriate for the removal of internal ha3morrhoids. Hxcision is a simple operation, easily performed, and very effectual.' The patient lying on his side, with the knees well drawn up and the buttocks held apart, the tumours are seized with a vulsellum or hooked forceps, and successively snipped off with scissors curved on; the flat, and applied flatwise at the base of the tumour. Any loose,: redundant portion of skin may be included in the excision, but all: such integument should not be removed, lest the contraction of cica- trization might leave the patient with a strictured anus. Haemorrhage is easily controlled by cold and the pressure of a pad, secured by a T bandage. A small, spouting arterial vessel may be twisted. Another method of operation, specially applicable to piles containing a hard blood-clot, is to cut the tumour in two, by transfixing its base with a narrow, curved, sharp-pointed bistoury; then press out the clot between the thumb and finger, and insert a small plug of lint, as the only dressing. After the removal of an inflamed external pile, the bleeding relieves the symptoms, and then the part heals rapidly. This would be a most painful operation in the case of inflammation, unless per- formed under the influence of chloroform ; or of local anaesthetic agents, which are equally effectual, as ice and salt, or the ether- spray. The removal of external piles tends to increase the development of any coexisting internal haemorrhoids. Prior, therefore, to operation, it will be advisable to administer an injection, in order to determine the necessity for further interference. Ligature.—Internal piles should be removed only by ligature. It is the safest procedure, owing to the liability of ha3morrhage, and the most permanently curative,—in preventing the recurrence of haemor- rhoids with the accompanying prolapsus of the rectal mucous mem- brane. The operation is, however, not so free from the slightest risk, as Mr. Syme has represented. Erysipelatous inflammation may creep up the bowel; pyaemia and tetanus are also occasional consequences, symptoms of the former affection having occurred in one of my own eases. But no fatal case has come under Mr. Curling's notice, either in public or private practice (1863). Such also has been my own experience. The conditions of internal haemorrhoids most fitted for this method of removal are—where the tumours consist chiefly of large, prominent, globular or pedunculated, venous dilatations, having a dark- blue appearance; or where the tumours have a bright-red colour and readily bleed, but the prolapsed mucous membrane is thickened or abundant. A marked tendency to uncontrollable hasmorrhage, in any case, will always render the operation requisite. In women, the not uncommon association of some uterine displacement, as the cause of internal piles, should be ascertained; for the operation would prove ineffectual unless that condition were rectified. The bowels having been relieved by castor oil or other mild aperient, an enema of warm water should be given shortly before the operation, in order that with its evacuation the piles may descend well into view. This effect may be aided by desiring the patient to sit over a pan of warm water, and bear down. Then, lying on the side most convenient to the operator, with his knees drawn up and the