357 ASPHYXIA. Wicrn matter, as mud, duckweed, etc.; there being no exclusion of Srei°n matter by spasm of the glottis, as was formerly supposed This admission of foreign matter is established by the observations of 4e Committee of Inquiry appointed by the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society and whose report appeared m the Transactions, 1862. The causes of asphyxia may be arranged under four general heads : m A mechanical impediment to the entrance of air into the lungs ; (9) drownino-; (3) the absence of oxygen in the respired gas; (4) inhalation of a toxic vapour, associated with an absence of oxygen. The following tabulated view, by Dr. Oeorge Harley, presents at a glance a very useful enumeration of the particular causes of asphyxia^ comprised under each of these general modes of causation. Asphjxia may arise from— / Pressure on the trunk preventing the expansion of the chest; throttling; garot- ting; strangulation by a cord ; hanging; smothering, by covering the mouth and nostrils, imbedding the face in earth, / External. I feathers, wool, etc.; paralysis of the respi- (ratory muscles from injury to the spinal cord, or to the base of the brain; double penetrating wound of the chest, admitting air. / 1st. Mechanical Impediment to the Entrance, of Air into the \ Lungs. Accident. Internal. Disease. 2nd, Drowning Choking from a morsel of food or other substance blocking up the fauces; plug- ging of the trachea by a cherry-stone or other substance; constriction of the fauces and injury to the glottis from application- pi corrosive and irritating fluids. , if Pressure on the trachea from an aneur- f External.^^1^^^. ^^^^^ I (Edema of the glottis; tumour on or about the vocal cords; false membrane blocking up the air-passages, as in diph- theria or croup ; bursting of an abscess or aneurism into the trachea; double pneu- monia or pleurisy; accumulation of mucus in the bronchial tubes; apoplexy at the base of the brain or in the medulla oblon- gata, causing paralysis of the pneumo- \ gastric, and of the resphatory muscles. ( In any liquid of whatever nature— {water, wine, beer, or brine. Internal. 3rd. Absence of Oxygen in the respired / Inhalation of pure nitrogen, hydrogen, gages. \or any other innocuous gas. (Carbonic acid, carbonic oxide, coal-gas, choke-damp, ammonia, chlorine, sulphu- retted hydrogen, arseniuretted hydrogen, antimonuretted hydrogen, sulphurous 4th. Inhalation a toxic gas vapour. of or tributed phyxia. to As- acid, nitrous acid, hydrocyanic acid, vapour of chloroform, ether, amylene, or any other Volatile product. Treatment. The primary indication is to arterialize or oxygenate the blood as soon as possible; this implying the restoration of respira-