281 RHINOPLASTIC OPERATIONS. either of two plastic operations. In botli tlie nose is re-made by bor- rowino- a properly devised flap of sound integument, and adapting it to the remnant organ,—itself in a sound state for its reception; but in one operation—that of Tagliacozzi, or the Italian method—the flap was taken from the inside of the arm ; in the second, or Indian opera- tion, the flap is taken from the forehead at the root of the nose. The latter operation is now practised, exclusively. It was introduced into this country by Mr. Carpue, in 1814; who also improved the original proceeding by adding a septum nasi, and by the employment of sutures. He was soon followed in Germany by Graefe and by DiefEenbach, and since by other Surgeons. In this country, the operation was more especially bi'ought into practice by Lizars, Listen, Sir W. Fergusson, and Mr. Skey. The Indian operation.—This operation consists of three distinct procedures performed in succession, at different periods, to complete the result. (1) The dissection of the flap from the forehead, and its attachment to the remnant nose; (2) the detachment of the root of the flap where it is twisted down from the forehead, and the formation of a proper bridge to the nose; (3) the formation of a columna nasi. The y?cip of integument is made thus :—A triangular piece of leather is cut into the shape requisite to form the alse and apex of the nose, resembhng the shape of the former nose ; or, in a congenital case, of such fashion as may suit the face. An ample flap should be made, as the new nose shrinks considerably for months after its formation. Each alar portion should be sufiiciently free to allow of being turned in to form a complete nostril; an important practical point, due, I believe, to Dr. Lichtenberg. This outline model is laid npon the forehead with its base upwards, and its narrow peduncular part between the eyebrows at the root of the nose; and the outline is marked out on the skin with ink. (Fig. 667.) If the forehead be low, this flap may be some- what inclined to either side, rather than encroach on the scalp, and perhaps form a hair-growing nose. The cicatrized remnant of the nose is then to be freely hut carefully pared. The flap, as marked out on the forehead, must be dissected down; care being taken to make it of uniform thickness, but not to interfere With the periosteum or pericranium ; and that the peduncular strip, at the root of the nose, be of sufficient length to allow of its being twisted round without affecting the circulation through it, as the channel through which the supply of blood to the flap alone depends. To facilitate this twist, the incision may be extended a little longer downwards on the side to which the flap is turned. Bleeding having ceased, the flap is brought round and its edges neatly adjusted to the pared margin of the remnant nose, and fixed with sutures ; observing—as Dieffenbach directs—to fold the edges of the flap inwards, which will thus give a fulness to the resultmg organ. The new nose is to be supported, not stuffed, with a Fig. 667.