INJUBIES OF LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 353 irritation, followed by those of inflammation. But tlie symptoms vary in intensity according to the situation of the foreign body. Impacted in the rlma glottidis, any substance so placed completely obstructs respiration, and the individual, suddenly turning blue in the face drops down dead almost instantaneously. Not uncommonly _a violent explosive cough or two ejects the foreign body, and the peril is over although spasmodic coughing still remains for a time, owing to the irritation. In the lanjnx, the foreign body may lodge or hitch in one of the ventricles, or slip down into the trachea; the same spasmodic couo-hincr is evoked, with great difficulty of breathing and sense of suffocation, and pain referred to the episternal notch, a croupy sound is heard through the stethoscope, during respiration, but the voice is broken or lost. All these symptoms are most intense when the larynx is the seat of impaction. In the trachea, the foreign body has more room, and the urgent symptoms subside perhaps for a while; or, the foreign substance moving up and down occasionally, particularly if the patient move, coughing returns with increased violence, and the body can be heard and even felt to strike the larynx, seeming to threaten instant suffocation. In the bronchi, a foreign body is comparatively tolerated; the respiration is more or less embarrassed, and a whistling or murmuring sound may be heard over the seat of lodgment; some- times also, during coughing, the body is dislodged and driven upwards. The rio-ht bronchus is generally that into which the foreign body falls, it being larger, though passing outwards almost transversely; while the left bronchus, of smaller size, inclines obliquely downwards and outwards, more directly in the line of the trachea. According to Professor Spence's observations, the foreign body has always been found in the left bronchus. The diagnosis from laryngitis or croup turns mainly on the history of the dyspnoea; the apparent introduction of a foreign body in the act of eating and laughing, for example, and the sudden origin of the symptoms from that occasion, constitute the chief points of distinction. Co7isequences.—Inflammation of the larynx, trachea, bronchi, or lungs, supervenes in a variable period, but generally in a few days after the more urgent symptoms of dyspnoea have subsided. Cough, pain, and muco-piirulent, perhaps bloody, expectoration succeed; and they continue until the patient is worn down, in a few months or a year or two, and dies from hectic exhaustion. Rarely, the foreign body may be coughed up again ; in one instance, Heckster relates that a ducat was thus ejected after two years and a half imprison- ment ; in another case, Tulpius states that a nut-shell was coughed up after a lodgment of seven years—the patients in both cases re- covering. Sometimes death ensues, although the body has been ejected; as in an instance given by Sue, in which a pigeon-bone was spat up seventeen years after its introduction, the patient dying about a year afterwards from marasmus. The prognosis depends on the size and physical character of the foreign body, and the period of its incarceration. Mr. Erichsen finds that, after the immediate danger, the greatest risk occurs between the second day and the end of the first month, no fewer than eleven patients out of twenty-one having died daring this period; but that the mortality diminished until the third month, when it increased again. The cause of death also varies according to the period of the VOL. 11. 2 A