288 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. backwards into a fissure of tlie palate. Cleft palate, however, fre- quently exists without hare-lip. No particular functional inconvenience attends this deformity, but extensive hare-lip interferes with the infant's power of sucking. Treatment.—The age for operation—to remedy this congenital defect —^has been the subject of much difference of opinion among some of the best Surgeons. There have been successful results at all ages; from a few hours after birth, a few days, weeks, or months; or at a later period, not until after the commencement of dentition. Having regard to the strength of the child, and that no unfavoarable condition ensues from some delay, a month or six weeks will probably be about the proper time for operation. Operation.—The child having been swathed in a large towel or piece of sheeting, thus completely securing the hands and feet, it is laid in the nurse's lap, so that the head of the infant shall be fixed between the Surgeon's knees. Chloroform may of course be adminis- tered, but even then the position of the child, as described, will much facilitate the operative proceedings. Taking the lower corner of one side of the fissure between the thumb and finger and pulling forward the lip on the stretch, the Surgeon just divides the frsenum with a straight and narrow bistoury, so as to free the Hp ; entering the point of the knife at the apex of the fissure, and carrying it forwards to the margin of the lip, the edge of the fissure is pared on that side, and then on the other side, held in like manner; care being taken that the whole - thickness of the Hp is pared. (Fig. 674.) The pared edges are brought Fig. 674. Fig. 675. together and evenly adjusted, and secured by one or two twisted sutures. (Fig. 675.) The hare-lip pin should be entered from one-third to half of an inch from the cut edges, and passed deeply, to about two- thirds, through the substance of the Hp, on either side of the fissure. A strong silk _ thread is twisted round the projecting ends of the pin, over the hp, in the form of a figure of eight. The point of the pin is snipped off with small cutting-pHers, the head of the pin remaining on the other side. A second suture is applied in like manner. It is most important to observe that the Hne of continuity of the labial margin be main- tained, and that there be no angular puckering at the apex of the fissure. No dressing is required. Certain Httle modifications of this operation are urged by some Surgeons of experience. Mr. Skey recommends a slight excurvation of the incision in paring the edges of the fissure, to preserve the form of the lip, which is otherwise Hable to be affected by retraction of the cicatrix. When inequality of the fissure exists, Mr. Lloyd was m the