718 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. CHAPTER LXII. DISEASE!? OF THE BLADDER. The Bladder is subject to Diseases, not differing in their nature from those of other organs; but which present modifications in their pathology and symptoms, and thence in their treatment. Thus, inflammation, known as Cystitis, acute and chronic, and various Morbid Growths or Tumours, may aifect the bladder. But the Malfor- mations of this organ are peculiar; and its Functional Conditions are special in their character; such as frequent micturition, retention of urine, incontinence or involuntary escape of urine, and engorgement with overflow of urine. These conditions may also be symptomatic of the diseases referred to, which involve structural alterations in the bladder. Cystitis—Acute. —Structural Gondition.—The seat of inflammation affecting the bladder is primarily the mucous membrane; occasionally, in consequence of the intensity or duration of the process, the sub- cellular tissue and the muscular or middle coat may secondarily become involved; but this inflammation never occurs in the middle and outer or peritoneal investment, independently of the mucous membrane. The portion of this membrane situated about the neck of the bladder, is most commonly and severely affected; extending thence to the whole of the lining membrane. After death, the membrane is found injected and reddened in specks and patches ; or it may have assumed a greenish slate colour, or a chocolate tint, when the inflammatory condition has been of some duration. Occasionally, lymph-effusion takes place on the surface of the mucous membrane ; forming shreds or patches of lymph, or even a false membrane shghtly adherent to the whole interior of the bladder. Very rarely, this membrane has been known to cause retention of urine, necessitating puncture of the bladder; and I remember the late Dr. Robert Kuox to have told me that, in Edinburgh, he had seen a membranous vesical cast of this kind drawn out of the bladder by supra-pubic puncture. In the female, it is sometimes thrown off entire. Symptoms.—The essential symptoms of acute cystitis are—severe pain and sense of aching weight in the region of the bladder above the pubes, extending down the urethra into the perineum and down the thighs ; this pain is accompanied by a frequent, urgent, and soon intolerable desire to pass the urine, which is expelled at short intervals, in small quantities, by spasmodic straining efforts. These symptoms are those of simple irritability of the bladder, in an extreme degree. But the contracted bladder, forming a small, round, and firm tumour, is exceedingly painful on slight pressure over the pubes, or when touched or tilted with the finger through the rectum; and the character of the urine also—high coloured and acid, mixed with mucus or pus, and perhaps tinged with blood—indicates an inflamed state of the vesical mucous membrane. The symptomatic inflammatory fever or constitutional disorder is often severe.