SUBCUTANEOUS SECTION OF FEMUR BELOW TROCHANTERS- 49 and passed down to and over the femur, so as to make a transverse line across the bone; then the knife is withdrawn, and still keeping the thumb in position, not to lose the track of the narrow subcu- taneous incision, a thin, narrovv-bladed saw, set in a long handle, is entered at the same point, and passed along the track of the wound, over the femur (Pig. 506), which is then readily sawn through, observ- ing not to work the instrument beyond the length of the serrated portion, about two inches in extent, thus to avoid lacerating the soft Fig. 506. textures on either side of the shaft. Only a few drops of blood escape from the punctare-wound, without any perceptible debris of bone. On feeling that the thigh is suddenly loose and movable at the seat of section, the thumb of the left hand is slid over the puncture, followed by a similar application of a lint compress as the thumb is withdrawn, in order to preclude the admission of air; thus making this sub- cutaneous osteotomy exactly similar to a subcutaneous tenotomy. The compress is secured by cross strips of adhesive plaster, and further by the turns of a rolled bandage, pretty firmly applied arotind the thigh. This having been done, the limb is brought down in a straight position from below the seat of section, making a more or less perceptible angle with the trochanteric portion above. In bringing the limb down, some resistance may be felt, owing to long-continued con- traction of the muscles in the direction which the thigh has assumed. This will be overcome by proper manipulation. The limb having thus been straightened as nearly as possible, a long, straight, interrupted splint is applied, as for excision of the hip-joint, and bandaged in the usual manner. In the event of muscular contraction, it may be de- sirable to use weight-extension from the ankle, as in fracture of the thigh. This simple operation of infra-trochanteric, subcutaneous section can be easily performed in the course of two minutes. The thin, narrow blade of my saw is well fitted for this purpose; and the ser- rated edge IS made thicker than the back of the blade, so as to clear the way for the easy passage of the instrument,—this adaptation pre- venting any lockmg of the blade in the shaft of the femur, which would be otherwise apt to occur, especially when the whole thickness of the shaft is nearly divided. The compress should not be removed VOL. II. „