481 STBAXGULATED HERNIA. aperture had heretofore transmitted without strangulation, or from any cause of congestion of the pre-existing visceral protrusion which shall thus induce constriction of the neck. The symptoms are those of Strangulated Hernia, and the operation is imperative. In this con- dition the taxis cannot, I think, be trusted ; for it is impossible to feel certain that a small knuckle of intestine, or a portion of the circum- ference only of the bowel, may not remain unreduced within a mass of irreducible omentum. I have met with such cases, and the strangu- lated intestine has been discovered by operation. Delay, iii order to Avatch if the symptoms of strangulation should continue, might place the patient beyond recovery. Incarcerated Hernia.—This term is intended to signify such im- prisonment of the contents of a Hernia, itself irreducible, as shall obstruct the passage of fseces through the intestinal portion; but there is no impediment to the circulation—-no strangulation. The Symptoms are some increase of size and painful sense of weight in the tumour, without any tenderness or pain about the neck of the hernial sac; and this local condition is accompanied with con- stipation, and nausea or even vomiting. These symptoms have a chronic character, unlike those of strangulation. Causes.—An accumulation of feculent matter or flatus in the fold of protruding intestine is the immediate cause of incarceration; but this is often preceded by constipation and the swallowing of hard, indigestible food. It occurs commonly in elderly persons, with large abdominal capacity. Treatment.—The first indication is to excite the peristaltic action of the intestine, and this suggests the kind of remedial measures for removal of the obstruction ; the patient remaining, of course, in the recumbent position. Aperient enemata answer best, and in particular a colocynth injection; purgatives administered by the mouth may operate beneficially, in the absence of vomiting. When some relief has been thus obtained, reduction of the intestinal contents may be advantageously attempted ; any previous manipulation of the accumu- lation might tend to increase it. Strangulated Hernia.—Strangulation of a Hernia is said to have occurred when the protruded viscera—intestine, omentum, or both—are so constricted that, in addition to functional obstruction, as of the passage of feculent matter through the intestine, the vascular communi- cation is also intercepted and the circulation of blood arrested,—a con- dition which soon leads to gangrene. The state of the hernial contents of the sac, in the early and ad- vanced stages of strangulation, have been already siifficiently described, in speaking of the general structural changes of Hernia. Seat of Stricture.—Generally, the stricture is situated at the 7?,ecZ; of the sac ; but it may be either in the neck, by thickening of this portion of peritoneum ; or external to and around the neck, by constriction of the surrounding tendinous or ligamentous structures forming the hernial aperture. These structures do not exert any active pressure upon the neck; the protruded viscus passes through an aperture too narrow for its reception, and, pressing outwardly, is resisted by the unyielding boundaries of that aperture. Hence, the jirecise seat of stricture may be in any portion of its circumference,—at whatever part resistance is greatest. This structural condition will be noticed more TOL. II, 2 I