260 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. thickening of the mucoias membrane, which becomes gradually less elastic, leading to adhesions and adhesive bands in the cavity. These adhesions are generally found between the membrane and the promon- tory, the membrane and the incus or stapes, the tendon of the tensor tympani and the stapes, and especially between the walls of the niche of the fenestra rotunda or the fenestra ovalis—in the former case binding the walls together, and in the latter binding them to the stapes. In a long-standing case of chronic catarrh, the cavity may be almost obliterated by the growth of adhesive bands of connective tissue and adhesions of the membrane, and the stapes may be forced in upon the fenestra ovalis, the pressure of which causes secondary changes in the labyrinth. The ossicula become either anchylosed or immovable from adhesive bands, and the disease leads to almost total deafness. The membrane in these cases is usually found very concave, with patches of calcareous degeneration. The subjective symptoms are a. gradual diminution in the hearing power, usually accompanied by increasing tinnitus, which is, in some cases, so harassing that persons have been known to commit suicide to escape from it. The symptoms, of pressure are also increased so much that vomiting is sometimes induced. The prognosis in the acute form, and in the chronic form, if the Surgeon is consulted before degenerative changes have taken, place to any extent, is favourable ; but the treatment is prolonged over such a length of time, that the patient frequently ceases to attend before the "disease is arrested. Where degenerative changes have taken place, so that the hearing cannot be restored or even improved, the Surgeon should at least endeavour to stay the progress of the disease, which, if left to itself, will eventually lead to total deafness.. The older the patient the more chronic the disease; and the greater the chano-es which have already taken place in the middle ear, the less- chanSe there is of a favourable result. The prognosis is unfavourable in cases in which the tinnitus is continuous, or where the disease has- beo-un with a slight, but gradually and slowly increasing tinnitus, even though, under treatment, the hearing is improved for a time; and m cases in which an almost total obliteration of the cavity has occurred, especially if there are cretaceous deposits on the membrane, no im- provement can be expected. , . . ^ i. Where adhesions have not yet occurred m the cavity, the treatment must be directed towards preventing their formation ; where they are already formed, we must, if possible, break theni up and attempt to restore the parts to their natural position and elasticity While the- pain and hypereemia are present, local blood-letting may be employed j four to six leeches being applied below and in front of the ear ibe after-treatment will consist in the application of the air douche, the iniection of medicaments to the Eustachian tube and the tympanic cavity, the treatment of any pharyngeal affection which may be present, and the performance of various operations on the souna- condu^ting^appaiatus_^^^_^^ currents of air through the Eustachian tube into the cavity of the tympanum have already been describeO. The third, which consists in the employment of the Eustachian catheter rFio- 655), is especially useful for the passage of fluids_or vapours, ana for^the guidance of bougies, elastic catheters, and instruments for electrical purposes into and through the Eustachian tube, ihc passage