443 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. Fig. 763.* oinfeinent and taken internally, have been recommended, as having some effect. Mr. Ure—an accurate therapeutic observer—recommends the bichloride of mercury, iu doses from the sixteenth to the eighth of a grain, and also the tribasic phosphate of soda, in half-drachm doses. Compression, by means of Arnott's slack air-cushion, is said to have proved especially serviceable, in promoting absorption. (2.) FiBiious TuMOUE of the breast is described by some authors, and also its recurring fibroid variety. Both these growths are rare ; but the specimen here represented in section (Fig. 763) would seem to be a genuine fibrous tumour in the mammary gland. Probably, some such tumours have been : fibrous adenocele. Their pathology and ' treatment by excision require no special ■ notice. Neuroma is occasionally developed on I the cutaneous nerve-filaments, or on those \ within the substance of the breast. It, a also, presents nothing peculiar in connec- r tion with this particular organ, whether i as to its pathology or removal by opera- L tion. (3.) Fattt Tumour, as a new growth, has been found on the breast, »within the gland, or behind it; a condition distinct from fatty hyper- ttrophy of the breast, which is simply an overgrowth of the fat sur- r rounding the gland. The diagnosis will always be difficult, but [•removal of the mass is the only cure. Remarkable cases are recorded. Sir A. Cooper removed a tumour ■of more than fourteen pounds weight; Sir B. Brodie relates another case ; in his "Lectures on Pathology and Surgery, " Warren excised a tumour 3of eight pounds; and Mr. Roper, of Croydon, sent to the Museum of L Guy's Hospital (prep. 2300^°) a fatty tumour, measuring twenty-three i inches around its largest circumference, which had been growing in t the side of the mammary gland for fifty-eight years; it was first :inoticed by the woman in her thirtieth year, and she died with it at the lage of eighty-seven years. In the centre of the mass there was an .lUTegularly shaped piece of bone. (4.)^ Cartilaginous and osteoid tumours are extremely uncommon. ITheir firm, lobulated character is similar to that of such tumours in mother parts ; and the treatment is excision. Sir A. Cooper relates an instance of tumour, partly resembling the -cartilage of a young subject, and partly ossific, which had been grow- ing in the breast of a woman for fourteen years ; her age being thirty- two. Professor J. Miiller also notices an instance of cartilaginous tnmour in the mammary gland ; while he adds three other cases of this species of growth,—in one the parotid gland was the seat, and in two, ithe testicle. (5.) Cysts, and Cystic-tumours.—Cysts—single or unilocular, and nnultiple or compound, and having various fluid or solid contents,—as ■proliferous cysts—are severally liable to form in the mammary gland ; or they may be associated with, and imbedded in, other species of new * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2776 a. Fibrous tumour of the breast, (Sir Stephen i:ilanirmck.)