INJUEIES OP ABDOMINAL PAKIETES, AND VISCERA. 463 complication which may attend a penetrating wound, or follow as Recondarv haemorrhage. Some viscus as involved, the blood proceeding from a branch of the epiploic, the mesenteric, the gastric, or other nrteries • or from the substance of the viscera. When the source ot Lmorrhage can be discovered, as a distinct jetting stream of blood nnon the fiuo-er introduced within the cavity of the abdomen, it will he iustifiable°to proceed to control the bleeding by torsion or ligature ; enlaro-ino- the wound, if necessary, for this purpose. Successful cases of this kind are not unknown. But generally the Surgeon must be content with having recourse to the ordinary haemostatics ; rest, astrm- fi-ents and the efficacy of opium, with the topical influence of cold, by means of an ice-bag. Venesection, although still practised by French and German Surgeons of large experience, and with whom I concur, is denounced by men of equal authority in America,—as testified by their practice in the War of the Rebellion. With regard to intra- thoracic hcemorrhage, their judgment respecting blood-lettmg is no less QjdvGPSG* Protrusion of any viscus. commonly a portion of intestine or omen- tum must be met by early reduction, before signs of strangulation have supervened. Relaxation of the abdominal muscles, by position and gentle manipulative pressure, is the rule to be observed. A pedun- culated constriction of the protruded mass may be overcome by slio-htly enlarging the aperture with a probe-pomted bistoury or herma- knife. If adhesions have taken place, they may be detached, when recent and slight; but when firm and extensive, they had better be left alone, rather than endanger the bowel by any forcible separation or cutting division ; and the Surgeon must be content with rehevmg the constriction,—thus conforming to the usual rule, with regard to this complication, in the operation for strangulated hernia. In returning the part, the direction of pressure should be towards the abdominal cavity through the aperture ; lest, otherwise, the protrusion be slipped between the muscles, leaving the neck unreduced. Having entirely returned the part into the abdomen, the finger should not follow it further; the gut or omentum may remain more safely placed near the aperture, that in the event of sloughing there shall be a free vent for the discharge. An inflamed state of the protrusion does not contra- indicate its reduction; but gangrene of the intestine must be treated on a different principle,—an incision to discharge the contents of the protruded portion, and the formation of an artificial anus. Gangrenous omentum should be removed by excision, the arteries having been each separately ligatured; and the stump of the mass removed should be left just within the wound, as under similar circumstances in the operation for strangulated hernia, and for the same reasons. Woimd of the intestine modifies the treatment, according as to whether the bowel be protruded or not. Wound of the intestine without pro- trusion is out of reach; and the discharge of f^cal matter must be facili- tated. The patient should be laid in such a position that the contents of the intestine shall escape through the external wound in the abdominal wall; lying on the injured side may offer the most dependent position to the opening, or the recumbent attitude, with the knees drawn up, may best facilitate the discharge from a wound near the umbilicus. Considering the risk of feculent extravasation, and the consequent peril, this mode of treatment, by position, is open to question. Large