EXCISION OP THE SHOULDER-JOINT, FOR INJURY. 83 shattered slioulder from gunshot wouTid necossitatos a sort of trim- nuiip"-up excision; by enlarging the wound, and extracting splintei-s of bone. A perpendicular linear incision, from the acromion process downwards through the middle of the deltoid muscle, will probably suffice to expose the crushed head of the humerus. Removal of the disintegrated and splinted fragments must then be performed secun- dum artem. -4/?er-treatment must be conducted on the same principle. Results.—In 53 primary excisions of the shoulder-joint for injury, the mortality was 16. In 34 secondary operations, there were 6 deaths. Combining these two series of cases, and adding thereto 6 operations, with 3 deaths, by Baudens, and 3 others successful—1 by Langenbeck, and 2 by Textor, of which it is unknown whether they were primary or secondary—the total number is 96 cases, with 25 deaths, or a mor- tality of 26 per cent. Secondary excision has a comparatively more favourable mortality than the primary operation. Thus, in the 53 primary excisions, the percentage was 30-18; whereas, in the 34 secondary operations, the percentage was only 17-64,—a balance of 12-54 in favour of the latter. More striking are the results reported by Esmarch. Of 6 excisions of the head of the humerus, performed within twenty-four hours after the injury, 2 died; of 3 dui-ing the inflammatory stage, or on the third 01- fourth day, 2 died; whereas of 10 after suppuration was established, only the same proportion, 2, died. Of 26 patients in the ambulances of M. Baudens, 11 immediate excisions made 10 recoveries, 3 were submitted to secondary excision, and all were successful. In the Crimean returns, also, the cases were equally successful. The period of recovery after shoulder-joint excision, for injury, seems to be about two or three months in respect to treatment, the complete result as to the usefulness of the arm not being obtained under twelve months, or a longer period. In the Crimea, the Schleswig-Holstein campaign, and the last Indian mutiny, many of the soldiers who had been thus operated on, returned to their regiments or to a modified duty before the end of the war. Compared with Nakiral Cure, excision has proved most favourable. Thus, of 8 cases suited for excision, but which were left to nature, 5 died, and the remaining 3, at the end of six months, were uncured. Of M. Baudens' cases, 15 were left to nature; 8 of these died from purulent infection, and 4 suffered long from fistulous openings—the remaining 3 having undergone secondary excision. • Compared vxitli Amfidation at the Shoulder-joint, the results of ex- cision are also favourable. In the Crimea, of 60 such amputations, 19 were fatal, or a percentage of 31-6 ; leaving in favour of excision, a balance of 5-6 per cent. A curious comparison has been drawn between the results of ex- cision on the right and left shoulder-joints, in relation to the mortality of operation. According to Esmarch, operation on the right side is more successful than on the left side ; of the latter cases, 6 out of 12 having died, but only 1 out of 7 of right-shoulder excisions. Author's Collection. (1.) Eoyal Infirmary, Edinburgh, 1870. Number of cases, 1: recoveries, 1. (2.) Koyal Infirmary, Liverpool, 1870. Number of cases, 1: recoveries, 1.