SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 214 Ligature.—A puncture is made throiigh the cornea for the introduc- tion of a pair of curved forceps, a small portion of the iris near its ciliary attachment is seized, drawn out through the wound, and tied with a very fine silk thread. This transforms the pupil into an elongated slit. If this aperture be insufficient, it may afterwards be enlarged by ligature of a second portion of the iris, so as to draw the pupil into a triangular shape. This operation—devised by Mr. Critchett, and named Iriddesis— limits the size of the pupil, and is applicable to a certain number of cases ; as when prolapse of the iris has occurred, involving so much of the pupillary margin in the cicatrix, that the area of the pupil is reduced to a very minute aperture; or when the whole pupil has been displaced towards the extreme edge of the cornea, and there concealed by opacity. It has the great disadvantage of leaving a piece of iris in the wound, and thus running the risk of producing sympathetic ophthalmia. After-treatment of Artificial Pupil.—In a tolerably healthy state of iris, the various modes of operation, if skilfully performed, are attended with little hasmorrhage into the anterior chamber, or inflam- matory consequences. Repose of both eyes, by means of a bandage, is necessary for two or three days, and the operated eye should then be kept closed for a day or two more. At the end of a week, a large eye-shade will be sufficient, and tinted glasses should be worn for some time. Any opiates, and the regulation of diet, will be suggested by the con- stitutional state of the patient. Diseases of the Lens and its Capsule.—Cataract is an opacity of the crystalline lens or of its capsule, or of both; partial or complete. Agreeably to this definition, cataracts have been arranged under two primary forms : (1) Capsular cataract; (2) Lenticular cataract. We also get (3) a combination of both, which is the most common form, and is named Capsulo-lenticular cataract. Cortical and Nuclear cata- racts are terms proposed by Mr. Dixon, as synonymous with the two primary forms. Lenticular cataract, again, is distinguished according to its density, into the hard and .soft varieties. These terms represent only certain stages in the progress of cataract; in no form of the disease does the lens undergo progressive hardening ; but the lens, for a long time retaining its natui-ally firm consistency while opacity is advan- cing, undergoes disintegration and softening, thus acquiring a uniformly whitish, milky opacity ; eventually, perhaps, becoming transformed into & fluid condition. Symptoms, and Signs or Appearances of Opacity.—Subjective symp- toms, or those which the subject of the disease may himself experience, are not to be relied on as positive evidence ; nor need such symptoms be accepted, since they can be tested, in regard to any functional defects of the organ. Dimness of sight, more or less marked, uniformly involving the field of vision, coming on gradually, without inflam- mation, and unattended with any impairment of motor power in the iris, is a suspicious symptom; but supposed defects of visual power should be tested and proved, by the independent observation of the Surgeon. An examination also of the suspected eye, or of both eyes, must bo made; first, in its natural state, and afterwards, when the pupil is dilated by a few drops of the neutral sulphate of atropiue,—two grains to the ounce of distilled water. A convex glass, of an inch focus