SPRAINS AND FRACTURES OF THE SPINE. 389 whether the intra-vertebral hgemorrhage be situated outside or •°™^e the theca of the cord, and hence the source of the extravasated IT d Post-mortem examinations of clinically observed cases are ifino- to complete the solution of this interesting question. ^ Inidmmation of Joints of the Spine-A serious consequence of •n of the spine is inflammation of the articulations; extending ' Shans to the membranes of the cord, as spinal meningitis, or even fnvolving the cord, as spinal myelitis. Suppuration within the verte- bral canal may result, and thence compression of the cord But the Innse connection of the fibrous theca or dura mater withm the canal, which has a distinct periosteum,—unlike the adherent dura mater ' within the cranium, which serves the purpose of_ periosteum,—is an anatomical condition unfavourable to the extension of the articula- ■' torv inflammation of the spine. The violence of the sprain is certainly ■ no measure of the probability of inflammation supervening; compara- - tively slight injury having perhaps this consequence, while severe - sprain may not be followed by inflammation. . . The symptoms are those of paralysis, the inflammation being of a chronic character and leading to suppuration. In an early stage the • paralysis may be partial, depending on the compression of some of the ; spinal nerves, as they issue through the inter-vertebral foramina ; m a later stage, the paralysis may become more general, from intrusion of ' the abscess into the vertebral canal, and compression of the cord, " resultino- in complete paraplegia. At this stage, chronic abscess ' around and within the vertebral canal, as the consequence of spinal ^ sprain, might be mistaken for caries, with abscess and destruction of I the bo'dies°of the vertebrae. But the absence of angular deformity at I the seat of disease by the upper portion of the column inclining forward, will probably settle the question of diagnosis. Spinal abscess from sprain may terminate by resolution, with the removal of compres- sion-symptoms, and gradual restoration of the functions of the cord; leaving perhaps the diseased articulations in a state of anchylosis. _ Or, the abscess breaks, and continuing to discharge pus, the prognosis is unfavourable. Treatment.—Uncomplicated sprain of the spine should be treated on the principles which relate to sprains of the joints generally:-(!) Perfect rest of the body, in the recumbent position, or on a prone couch; (2) Fomentations, warm and sedative, as by a decoction of poppy-heads, or a lotion of lead and opium; subsequently, stimulating applications, as camphor liniment, or the tincture of iodine; (3) Mer- curials, as the bichloride, in small and continued doses, with bark, and good nourishment. Some sort of stay support may be requisite when the patient begins to get about. The complications and consequences of spinal sprain must be treated as explained in connection with Hsematuria, and Compression of the spinal cord from intra-vertebral hfemorrhage or suppuration. Fractures of the Spine.—Stnictural Conditions.—The several parts of a vertebra are liable to fracture. The processes, articular, trans- verse, and spinous, may severally be the seat of fracture; and in par- ticular the spinous process. The arch is sometimes fractured on either side of this process (Fig. 723) ; and the body of the vertebra is liable to fracture obliquely, from behind forwards and downwards, or occa- sionally it may be comminuted. The ligaments corresponding to these