86 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. •were scooped out in each case; the adjoining portion of the horizontal ramus of the pubes was denuded in one case, but it was left un- touched and underwent repair. An exceptional case is now (1878) Tinder treatment, where, in addition to an ordinary excision, about half the thickness of the ramus of the ischium was gouged out. As a rule, I find that superficial caries of any adjoining portion of pelvic bone is best left alone ; rather than by groping about in the dark with a gouge, the vascular continuity of the integuments should be detached, and perhaps a portion of the carious surface may still be left un- scraped. Nature, subsequently, completes the excision by molecular dis- integration and discharge from the pelvic surface ; with some prolonga- tion only of the period of recovery, but with greater safety to the patient. Lastly, dislocation is unfavourable, as implying an almost neces- sarily advanced stage of the disease constitutionally. Of 123 cases, more or less advanced to exhaustion, in forty-four only the head of the femur yet remained in the acetabulum. Operation.—Excision of the hip-joint was originally proposed by White, of Manchester, in 1769, but the operation was first performed by Schmalz, of Pirnie, Saxony, in 1816; and first performed in this country, and for the second time in Europe, by Anthony White, of the Westminster Hospital, in 1821; it was repeated by Hewson, of Dublin, 1823; after which period the operation fell into disuse, until its revival by Sir William Pergusson, in 1845. Since that period it has been performed by many Surgeons, and in a large number of cases. The hip-joint deeply placed, owing to the neck of the femur, is reached most conveniently by a T-shaped incision; the vertical line being made from just above the great trochanter downwards on the shaft to about three inches or less in extent, and the transverse line, perhaps slightly curved, about half that extent on the summit of the longitudinal incision. The very limited extent of this latter incision avotds the femoral vessels anteriorly, and the crural nerve posteriorly. In disease of the joint, with consequent dislocation backwards on the dorsum ilii, and wasting as the result of long-standing disease, these incisions seem to be almost invited, so prominently does the tro- chanteric portion of the femur abut under the integument. By de- taching the integument on either side of the vertical incision, keeping the knife turned towards the femur, especially on its inner side, the subjacent portion of femoral shaft is exposed; then, sinking the knife vertically in the transverse incision, just above the trochanter, the attachment of muscles thereto is divided; so that the finger can be readily passed down to the joint and its state ascertained. 1 he capsular ligament will generally have given way or entirely disap- peared. To turn out the remnant head of the femur for excision, it may be necessary to adduct and evert the limb, when, with a touch of the knife on the bone, the round ligament yields and the head starts from its pocket. Or this hgament also may have disappeared, and the head and neck of the femur be so reduced, and the aceta- bulum so patulous, from more advanced disease, that the bone can be readily dislodged and hooked out with the finger. In a third class of cases, dislocation backwards has taken place. In any case, however, adduction of the Hmb across the opposite thigh presents the bone tor application of the saw ; and then the diseased portion is removed by one or more successive slices with a small saw, the mtegument on