850 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. vulva, with a bearing-down weight ; while an elastic, fluctuating tumour can sometimes be folt above the pubes or in the iliac fossa. Treatment.—An aperture must be made in the hymen ; and this may be done by puncture with a trocar, and then enlarging the open- ing with a probe-pointed bistoury, or by making a free crucial incision. Complete removal of the hymen, by dissection, has been recommended by Mr. Baker Brown ; but this extreme procedure seems unnecessary for the functional freedom of the vagina, and indeed might be followed by cicatricial stricture. In either mode of freeing the passage, the urethra must be carefully avoided; a precaution less easily observed when " the hymen is removed entire by a circular incision." An open- ing having been made, the retained menstrual fluid is discharged, often in a very large quantity, of syrupy consistence, and sometimes of offen- sive odour. The relief thus afforded is immediate. But the danger and fatality of this simple operative procedure is considerable. Perito- nitis often ensues; not of a puerperal or contagious character, as was formerly suggested by Dr. Blundell and others, but apparently in consequence of some of the menstrual fluid finding its way upwards through the free extremity of the Tallopian tube into the cavity of the peritoneum, or by rupture of the tube, which, with the uterus, had previously undergone dilatation from backward distension with the accumulated fluid. That either of these two events should happen after the relief of tension by operation is remarkable; yet they seem to be established by the observations of Bernutz, Goupil, and Jonathan Hutchinson. Partial imperforate hymen is occasionally met with. This con- [ dition, however, is no barrier to marriage, or to impregnation; or even to parturition, the hymen rupturing, usually, under pressure of the foetal head. Incision will be desirable to free the patient from any unhappy matrimonial restraint. Stricture of the Vagina, having a fibrous or carcinomatous character, may occur, as in the rectum or other canals. Fibrous stricture is the result of inflammatory deposit, in the submucous cellular tissue; or it may appear in the form of cicatrix, consequent on ulceration. Either such condition would interfere with sexual intercourse and parturi- tion ; or prevent the free discharge of mucous and menstrual fluid. Examination with the finger will readily detect the cause of obstruc- tion, and which may be brought into view by using a speculum. The i stricture will generally yield to gradual dilatation, by means of bougies ' or tents of compressed sponge ; but it may be necessary or advisable to cautiously incise the mucous membrane and submucous tissue with a probe-pointed bistoury, on either side of the vagina,—thus avoiding the bladder above and the rectum below ; afterwards maintaining the passage by the occasional introduction of a bougie or pessary. Can- cerous stricture requires no special notice ; its pathology and treatment having reference to the disease which produces this condition of stricture. Dilatation will have no good effect, curative or even temporary. • Spasmodic Contraction of the Sphincter Vagince—Vaginismus.—This | affection is usually characterized by extreme dread of sexual approach I or even of examination by touch. The spasmodic contraction is partly 1 reflex, the result of pain on touch, partly—perhaps mainly—hysterical. |