URINARY CALCULI. 661 Discovered by "Wollaston in 1797, this calculus is not common. It is of a white or grey colour, irregular shape, and somewhat spiculated; may attain a large size, and has a friable consistence ; is imperfectly laminated, and the fracture sometimes crystalline like alabaster. Tests:—Not combustible, and not destroyed by heat; soluble with hydrochloric acid, but does not effervesce either before or after heat- ing ; solution in acid, with excess of ammonia, gives a crystalline precipitate. (11.) Phosphate of Lime Calculus—also discovered by Wollaston in 1727—is rarely found in the bladder uncombined with other salts; and it seldom forms the nucleus of other calculi. It has a pale brown colour; spheroidal form and smooth sui-face; is usually small, friable, and laminated. This condition of the calculus is of renal origin, and consists of the neutral phosphate of lime. Another condition is of vesical origin, and consists of bone-earth phosphate; it occurs in the shape of irregular masses resembling mortar, or a granular semi- crystalline powder, enveloped in a tenacious mucus. Phosphates form around other calculi, or foreign bodies ; but they are scarcely ever succeeded by a deposit of uric acid or urate of ammonia, or of oxalate of lime. Tests :—Not combustible, and not destroyed by heat; soluble with hydrochloric acid, but does not effervesce either before or after heating; solution in acid, with excess of ammonia, gives an amorphous precipitate. (12.) Phosphate of Lime, and Phosphate of Magnesia and Ammonia Calculus—or the Mixed Phosphates—Fusible Calculus.—Another dis- covery by Wollaston in 1797, this is the most common of the three phosphatic calculi, and represents rather more than one in twelve of all calculi. The calculus is of a white, grey, or dull yellow colour; generally of a very irregular shape, and moulds itself to the situation where found; sometimes globular or ovoid, sometimes in many pieces and assuming a cubic or tetrahedral form. It may attain a considerable size, and has a very friable consistence and pulverescent character, or a soft consistence, resembling moist chalk. Section shows generally a concentric lamellar structure, and sometimes shining crystals of the triple phosphate between the laminse, or a semi-crystalline appear- ance. The relative proportion of the constituent phosphates varies exceedmgly, and the predominance of one or the other phosphate gives peculiar characters; an abundance of triple phosphate presents a crystallme texture, while that of phosphate of lime exhibits an amor- phous earthy appearance. Mixed phosphates are more commonly deposited on foreign bodies introduced into the bladder; encrusting them with white, friable, calculous masses. Tests .-—Not combustible and not destroyed by heat; soluble with hydrochloric acid, but does not eflervesce either before or after heating; solution in acid, with excess of ammonia, gives a white, partly crystalline, partly amorphous precipitate; without addition, e&silj fusible before the blowpipe. (13.) Silicious Calculus—As a separate concretion this calculus has not been met with; but silica has been found in other calculi bv iierzehus, Vauquelin, Fourcroy, and Venables. Tests .—Silica is neo-a- tive with regard to all the tests for other concretions; it is not acted on by heat, acids, or alkalies. The relations of all these Calculi to Tests, as already stated with reference to the several forms of Calculi, and, moreover, the additional