159 FRACTURE OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL. very urgent, justifies the postponement of operation; but if there be urgent symptoms, prompt interference is the rule to be observed. Compound fracture depressed, and with symptoms, assuredly de- mands immediate interference. It may or may not prove successful, according to the urgency of the symptoms, owing rather to extravasa- tion of blood, or brain-lesion, than depending on the fracture-depres- sion. Prom the results collected by Mr. John Adams, it appears that out of 77 cases of compound fracture, 29 recovered, and 48 proved fatal; 26 were not subjected to surgical interference—of these 18 recovered and 8 died; 51 were operated on, and of these 11 recovered, and 40 died. The experience of American Surgeons * has, however, been far more favourable; for in 26 depressed fractures, not caused by gunshot wound, the results of the removal of fragments and trephining were complete recovery in 4 cases, partial recovery in 8, and death in 14 cases, or about the proportion of 1 in 2. In childhood, a depressed piece of bone does not generally produce the serious results which are commonly noticed in the adult. The postponement of elevation or trejDhining is, therefore, allowable; when in an adult the operation should be performed at once. These conditional rules of modern treatment respecting fractures of the skull, have entirely superseded the indiscriminate recourse to operation, which formerly prevailed, both in this country and on the Continent; a reform which dates from the criticism of John Bell on the almost incredible records of the past, and which were satirized by the humorous precept of Hudibras :— " The free trepanning of the skull. As often as the moon's at full!" (2.) Feactuhe of the Base of the Skull.—Structural Gonditions.—■ Commonly a fissured or radiated fracture, there is little or no displacement, the bones being nearly immovable. The fracture may be situated in either the middle (Fig. 603), posterior, or anterior fossa of the base, and generally in this order of occurrence—the fissure passing through the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, or into the foramen magnum. Two foss« may be implicated; as the middle and posterior, in fifteen cases out of twenty-nine; or the middle and anterior, in the remaining fourteen cases. All three fossae may be implicated con- currently; but this happened in only ten cases in ten years. 8ym/ptoms and Diagnosis.—The only peculiar and reliable symptoms of frac- * "Med. and Surg. History of the War of the Eebellion," by G. A. Otis, Assistant Surgeon, under the direction of Joseph K. Barnes, Surgeon-General, United States Army, 1870, Part I. vol. ii. t St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 25.-Fracture in the middle fossse of the base of the skull. The fracture commenced on the right side, in the parietal bone, about an inch from the occipito-parictal suture; it ran forwards for about an inch and Fig. 603.t