GONORRHCEA. ' 755 course before the discharge appears. (2.) After the discharge is established, if the urethra be previously washed out by means of a • watei'-injection, the disease will probably not be communicated. (3.) The matter retains the power of infection for an indefinite period; in one case Titley found that a girl had communicated the disease immediately on leaving the Magdalen Hospital, after a seclusion of one year; and in another case, according to Hunter, after two years' seclusion. (4.) With gleet, two persons thus affected may have intercourse with impunity; but either of them will communicate gonorrhoea to a sound person. (5.) The violence of the symptoms depends very much on constitutional conditions, as the gouty diathesis and habits of life, as intemperance ; consequently, the same woman may give a very mild gonorrhoea to one man, and a most severe one to another. (6.) The first attack of the disease is generally the most severe; a kind of urethral tolerance being commonly induced by repeated attacks. (7.) The severity and the continuance of gonor- rhoea are often inverse; it is most severe in young and plethoric persons, in the gouty or rheumatic diathesis, and in the first attack; but most obstinate in scrofulous and phlegmatic constitutions, in persons affected with chronic skin-diseases, and after repeated attacks. (8.) The disease seems to be much milder now than formerly. The generation of gonorrhoea, apart from exposure to any discharge, is a question which may be so far entertained that it has not been entirely disproved; but many apparent cases of origin are rendered very donbtful by the persistently contagious character of the slightest gleety discharge. In relation to sypliilis, the virus of gonorrhoea differs entirely in its nature from that of chancre or of chancroid; neither disease being capable of repi-oducing the other under any circum- stances. The two diseases are distinct, not convertible. An ordinary case of gonorrhoea passes through an unchequered course, until the discharge runs itself off. But several morbid con- ditions of the urethra or of adjoining parts may complicate the natural history of this disease. Ghordee, a bent and painful erection of the penis, has been already noticed. Urethral hcBmorrliage is apt to occur, from rupture of the engorged vessels during violent erections, and especially in chordee. This event is unimportant; the loss of blood usually being slight, it affords relief. Inflammation and suppuration ■ of some of the mucous follicles of the nrethra may occasion some • temporary obstruction; until the abscess bursts into the urethra, or : perhaps externally, as a less favourable issue. Irritation or inflam- : mation of the urinary organs is a far more serious complication of ! gonorrhcea; sometimes affecting the posterior portion of the urethra ! givmg rise to severe perineal pain, with spasmodic stricture, and more • or less retention of urine ; sometimes extending back to the bladder ! as denoted by the more urgent and painful micturition, with mucous « deposit m the urine ; or there may be the symptoms of renal irritation ( amounting even to nephritis,—announced by pain in the loins, shiver- > mg, vomiting, and albuminous, bloody, or puralent urine This state 1 with or without cystitis, is likely to be induced by early or'strono^ ^ urethral injections, mtemperance, or the use of copaiba in large doscs° 1 Inflammation of the inguinal lymphatic glands, or sympathetic buho . occurs during the second or inflammatory stage of gonorrhcea. But ^ such buboes rarely proceed to suppuration, unless when subjected to