SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. fi^-s* interruption to the respiration The Ttt Wttrr -«P-t"ry effort anS the cessaLu ot the heart s action, vanes from two to four minutes. Cerebral svmn Wnrorr"^ somewhat he'Tot lowmg order :-a sensation of fulness in the head, and giddiness fZ7 T ^"^^^^ ^^^^^^ d^-^i-g the e^es; tl fa J^li f iT^'^'i'^'^"'* voluptuous dreams, which soon fadeaway into insensibility and unconsciousness, speedily succeeded by convulsions. 1 he appearances of the person nndergoing asphyxia are peculiar; an extremely anxious expression of countenance, blueness of the lips starting of the eyeballs, distension of the vessels of the face, head and neclc, trothy mucus, occasionally sanguineous, about the mouth, invo- luntary passage of the faeces and urine, and sometimes an emission of semen with or without erection. All the symptoms are modified and proceed more or less rapidly according to the cause of asphyxia. Port-Mortem Appearances.—The external appearances depend on the period after death,—in the course of twelve hours, any characteristic appearances will mostly have passed off ; and they are modified by the cause of fatal asphyxia. At an early period,—within three or four hours after death,—lividity of the lips, with oozing froth, and perhaps slightly sanguineous mucus, are conspicuous; lividity and swelling of the tongue, which presents impressions of the teeth upon its marlin may also be observable ; the eyelids are half open, and the pupils dilated; but the countenance is generally placid and pallid, or faintly livid, ihese appearances, however, resemble the facial aspect of death from epilepsy; or they may, in part, proceed from heart-disease, con- cussion of the brain, and perhaps other causes of death. Rigor mortis sets m early, and particularly after drowning in ice-cold water. The hands are clenched, sometimes so firmly in the drowned as to be opened only by great force, even to cause fracture of the finger-bones. Death resulting from asphyxia mechanically induced, usually leaves some marks of violence, such as ecchymosis or laceration at the seat of injury. There may be the mark of a cord upon the neck after hanging, or of fingers on the neck after throttling; the hyoid bone also is some- times fractured, or the cartilages of the larynx are dislocated. The internal appearances consist chiefly of venous congestion of certain organs, with a proportionally anemic condition of other organs. The heart and great vessels are greatly engorged with black blood, on the right side: the left side of the organ is generally empty, or contains venous blood as on the right side. The blood throughout the body has a venous tint, and is sometimes found in a fluid state. The portal systeni is much engorged, involving, therefore, the liver and spleen. The kidneys partake of the general venous congestion. The lungs are not so entirely nor invariably congested as has been asserted in most works; and the brain—according to the results of experiments on animals, by Ackermann—is always in an anemic condition ; the cere- bral vessels becoming congested merely as the mechanical result of the post-mortem distribution of the blood, in consequence of a dependent position of the head. Extravasations of blood within the cranium occasionally result from injury to the head in the mode of death. Death by drowning is distinguished by one peculiarity in the state of the air-passages and lungs; these organs contain water, or other