SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 186 venous aneurism formed, protruding the eyeball, and fatal haemorrhage ensued. Treatment.—Nothing, of course, can be done to a wound of the eye- ball to facilitate^ repair of the lesion itself; but the consequences of inflammation with regard to this organ and the brain, must be promptly met. Perfect rest in a darkened room, with local blood- letting, blistering, and the administration of calomel and opium, con- stitute the principal preventive measures. Antimony or anything likely to produce sickness must be avoided, and also active purgation; the efforts of straining in vomiting or defecation affect the eye un- favourably, and peril prolapsus of the iris. Those cases of cuts and lacerations which take place through the margin of the cornea and implicate the adjoining part of the ciliary region, are by far the most likely to lead to sympathetic ophthalmia. And it may be stated as a general rule that in such injuries the eye should be at once removed. If this proceeding is demurred to by the patient or by the relatives of the patient, the treatment above recommended should be adopted, but at the same time an earnest warning should be given that the removal of the injured eye will be rendered imperative if, in the course of a few days or weeks, the opposite eye become inflamed or the vision impaired. In many instances, when the cornea has been cut through, the iris protrudes to a greater or less extent; and when this has occurred, and the patient is seen shortly afterwards, an attempt may be made to reduce the prolapsed part with a probe or curette, aided by a drop or two of solution of atropine or of eserine, according to the position of the wound,—the former being used if the inner or pupillary margin of the iris is engaged; the latter, if the peripheral portion be prolapsed. These means constitute the best precaution against the occurrence or the recurrence of prolapsus, by insuring dilatation or contraction of the pupil. Strangulation of an unreduced prolapsus soon supervenes, rendering reduction impossible. If prolapsus of the iris cannot be re- duced, whether in the first instance or owing to strangulation, the pro- truding portion may be snipped off with fine curved scissors, to prevent any irritation of the eye by its presence; and cicatrization rapidly takes place, leaving a somewhat opaque scar. Any application of nitrate of silver is unnecessary or injurious. Opacity of the lens or its capsule, forming traumatic cataract, may eventually necessitate an operation for its extraction. Complete disorganization of the eyeball, by or in consequence of a penetrating wound, will probably necessitate extirpation of the organ; as in the two cases already noticed. But, in another case of such wound from a stab with a fork, penetrating the cornea, abscess formed in the anterior chamber; this I opened by a crescentic flap-incision with a triangular-bladed Beer's knife, as for cataract, and the eyeball remained without affecting the other organ. Contusion.—Blows on the eye produce contusion ; restricted to the eyebrows and lids, with the ordinary appearance of " black-eye," or involving the eyeball, with peculiar appearances. Black-eye consists of an extravasation of blood in the subcutanGous cellular tissue of the eyelids ; exhibiting the usual disclouration of ec- chymosis, and undergoing various shades of colour from black to green and yellow, as it disappears. The subconjunctival texture is likewise infiltrated. Em^iJi'i/nema of the lids sometimes results from severe blows