91 EXCISION OF THE RADIUS, ETC. undertaken in like manner, by an incision extending along tlie bone from end to end ; but owing to the subjacent parts, the removal of the entire bone is a proportionately more formidable operation. This bone has been wholly or partially excised by Mott, of New York, 1828; Warren; Travers; Davie, of Bungay; Curtis, of Chicago; Cooper of San Francisco, and Syme. Excision of the Radius or Ulna.—The bones of the forearm have early been subjected to excision, pafUally or completely. Thus, Dr. Butts, . of Virginia, has removed the whole raclms. The result was a useful arm. Carnochan, of New York, and the late Mr. Jones, of Jersey, , excised the whole idna, successfully. Sir WiUiam Fergusson has also performed these excisional operations, and with entirely successful results, in the preservation of a useful arm. Excision of the Humerus.—A considerable portion of this bone has been removed, with a successful result; and a more remarkable feature was presented in one case—a regeneration of the shaft of the bone to : a considerable extent. (Fig. 527.) This case, by Mr. Wilkes, is fully reported in the " Trans. Path. Soc," vol. xxi. As showing the further tendency to operations of this kind, I may mention a case in which the lower half of the ulna was excised for myeloid tumour, by Mr. Clement Lucas, the result being a useful limb; * in another case, the carpal ends of both radius and ulna were removed, for apparently osteo- aneurism, by Mr. Hancock, the hand re- maining useful; and a similar operation of excision by Mr. Henry Morris, in the case i of a myeloid tumour, also resulted in a use- ful hand.f Cases such as these were among those originally selected, by Sir W. Fer- gusson, in illustration of Conservative Sur- gery X—the preservation of the integrity of the body as far as possible, in the removal of parts. But as exhibiting the guidance of the conditions of disease, or injury, in the design and performance of operations, e.g., on the joints and bones, the term Pathological Operative Surgery, which some years since I suggested, § would seem to be more appro- priate than that of Conservative,—-which merely expresses the obviously implied object of all Surgery. The guiding principle referred to is far more important and significant; for Surgery must, necessarily, be con- servative or preservative,—or, it is nothing. Excision of the Tibia or Fibula.—Partial excision of either of these bones, in consequence of disease or injury, can be accomplished without much difficulty by simple incisions, varying according to the circumstances of the case. In the case here represented (Fig. 528), I removed a considerable extent of the shaft of the fibula. Complete removal of the fibula was readily and successfully per- formed by Erichsen, for necrosis, in a child of six years of age; the * " Trans. Clin. Soc," 1877. + Ibid., 1877. X Medical Times and Gazette, January, 1852. ^ Ibid., August and July, 1865.