535 BADICAL CURE OF FEMORAL HERNIA. brancli from the epigastric, running to the back of tlie pubes, passes downwards near the inner side of the ]»ng to anastomose with the branch from the opposite side ; or again, the epigastric artery, having its unusual origin from the obturator or from the femoral artery, may ascend on the inner side of the ring. The same liability to haemorrhage would then occur, in dividing the stricture at the crural ring. Any such unusual source of htemorrhage it will be difficult to anticipate or control. Before introducing the hernia-knife, it might be practicable to feel the pulsation of the aberrant artery with the tip of the finger. When cut, the vessel may perhaps be drawn to the aperture and tied, or twisted at both ends; or the hgemorrhage may be arrested by plug- ging with lint or sponge, and by cold applications. Secondary hemor- rhage will necessitate a fair exposure of the vessel, by cutting down in the course of the hsemorrhage, and tying whatever vessel bleeds. Occasionally, an artery bleeds which at the time of operation did not; it will then scarcely be justifiable to cut down and explore for an unknown source of haemorrhage, and the only expedient is a cold application. A compress and spica-bandage must be applied, to prevent the recurrence of protrusion. A too free division of the stricture at the crural ring, unattended with heemorrhage, may be followed by an increased liability to hernial protrusion, after recovery from the operation. This result is owing to a weakened state of Poupart's and Grimbemat's ligaments at their angle of junction. The truss, worn eventually, will then require the additional support of a cross tongue, buckled on to its free end. Radical Cure.—Little has hitherto been done to effect a radical cure of femoral hernia by operative procedures. The operation of invagina- tion into the hernial aperture was performed in one case by Dr. G. Jameson, of Baltimore, North America; and in another case, with a hard plug retained by sutures, as performed by Mr. Redfem Davies. Both patients survived, but the results with regard to the recurrence of hernia seem to have been very doubtful. An operation proposed by Mr. J. Wood, but practised only at present on the dead subject, is performed in the following manner; the instruments used being the same as for inguinal hernia, by the wire operation. The body lying recumbent, with the shoulders raised, a vertical incision about an inch long is made through the skin over the site of crural hernia. The fascia around the margin of the wound is detached subcutaneously to a sufficient extent for invagination, free from skin, fairly into the crural opening. Then, pressing the femoral vein outwards with the forefinger which is used for invaginating, the needle is passed backwards—through the sac were it present—suffi- ciently deep to take up the pubic portion of the fascia lata covering the pectineus muscle ; the point of the needle being afterwards made to emerge in the wound. It is then carried forwards and upwards, and made to transfix Poupart's ligament close to the nail of the invagi- nating finger. The skin of the groin is drawn outwards by an assis- tant, and the point of the needle pushed through it. The wire is then hooked on to the eye of the instrument, and drawn back with it into the wound. Disengaging the needle, leaving the wire protruding, it is passed again through the pubic portion of the fascia lata, about an inch or three-quarters of an inch—according to the size of the hernial