245 EXAMINATION OF EXTERNAL MEATUS, ETC. its origin is traumatic. Tratmiatic hcewMtoma is common amongst boxers, and is unquestionably present wbere there are neither hereditary history nor symptoms of insanity present. Various modes of treatment have been recommended by different •mthorities. Gruber recommends the evacuation of the fluid and blood by incisions, followed by the use of a compress-bandage ; while Wendt relates a case in which the tumour refilled twice after incision, but was cured by lead-water applications and compression. Others, recommend the introduction of a seton through the tumour, keeping up a slio-ht discharge; but the application of astringent lotions and a com- press is more simple, and appears to be as effectual as any other method. Besides the othismatomatous, the auricle may be the seat of fibro- plastic, fibro-cartilaginous, sebaceous, erectile, epitheliomatous, and sarco- matous 't^bmours. These tumours are recognized and treated as in other parts of the body. • • j -j. f Qoihty Deposits.—In persons of a gouty constitution, deposits of urate of soda are often found in the auricle and meatus. When occurring in the auricle, they are usually seen on the tipper border of 1 he hehx, and vary from the size of a pin's head to that of a pea. Unless causing an excessive irritation in the meatus, they do not interfere with the hearing power, and are rarely brought under the Surgeon's notice. Examination of External Meatus and Membrane.—Before pro- ceediag further with a description of the diseases of the ear, it is necessary to make a few remarks upon the examination of the meatus and membrane. The orifice of the meatus can, in a good light, be well seen without the aid of a speculum, by drawing the tragus forward with the one hand, and slightly elevating the helix with the other. For examining the deeper parts of the meatus, or the membrana tympani, a speculum and mirror are almost always necessary. Sun- light, when it is available, is the most satisfactory method of illumina- FiG. 644 * Fig. 645.t t tion, as it gives the tints of the meatus and membrana tympani more truly than any artificial light; but where it cannot be obtained an Argand burner is a good substitute. There are * I^epresentB the method of holding the speculum when introduced into the ear. (fit. John Roosa.) t Represents the method of examination of the membrane with the aural specuUim and concave mirror. (St. John lioosa.)