SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 696 of urine and pelvic cellulitis, as the results of forcible extraction. Crosse's table of 704 cases, in the Norwich Hospital, shows the in- creasing clanger according to the size of the calculus, estimated by its •weight. When the weight of the stone was under one ounce, the deaths were in the proportion of 1 in 11'25 cases; from one to two ounces, 1 death in 6-61 cases; from two to three ounces, 1 in 2-18 ; from three to four ounces, 1 in 1-57; and from four to five ounces, 1 in 1-66 cases. The chance—observes Mr. Coulson—which a patient has for recovery after lithotomy can, therefore, be calculated beforehand, and indepen- dent of every other consideration, from the ascertained dimensions or weight of the stone. Out of 90 cases of death after lithotomy, col- lected by this author, by far the highest proportionate number—22— resulted from infiltration of urine, inducing pelvic cellulitis. Sir H. Thompson concurs in the frequency of pelvic cellulitis as the cause of death, but he would attribute it to bruising and laceration of the neck of the bladder, rather than to urinary infiltration; this opinion resting on the fact that, in children, the boundaries of the prostate are almost always overstepped by the knife, yet without giving rise to infiltration of urine. (3.) Disease of the Kidneys.—Chronic pyelitis, or chronic nephritis resulting in degeneration of the kidneys with albuminous urine, may be said to represent that diseased condition of the kidneys which is most prejudicial to recovery after lithotomy. In estimating the comparative mortality of lithotomy in adults and cldldren, two elements seem to be in favour of the latter :—at an early period of life, the kidneys are usually sound, and the stone of small size,—thus entailing less liabiUty to injury of the neck of the bladder, or to infiltration of urine, followed by pelvic celluHtis. In children, death generally results from some accidental violence ; as the formation of a false bladder in the recto-vesical space, or dis- ruption of the neck of the bladder from the membranous urethra. In adults, however skilfully the operation may have been performed, the state of the kidneys and the size of the stone may severally lead to a fatal issue. Suppression of Urine may be mentioned as a rare cause of death ; the kidneys being found congested, but not otherwise structurally diseased. (4.) Heemorrhage is liable to occur primarily, or secondarily—after the operation ; in the latter case it takes place in about a week or ten days, or even a fortnight. Primary hemorrhage is rarely fatal; in Listen's experience, one such case happened in 100 operations ; and Coulson has not experienced dangerous haemorrhage frequently, although out of the ninety cases of death after lithotomy, which he collected, no less than eleven patients died from haemorrhage, primary or secondary. In France, Begin afiirms that it is the cause of death in one out oi every four deaths; and Boyer regards haemorrhage as one of the chief dangers of lithotomy. (6.) Shock, as the cause of death, is very uncommon ; and it gene- rally happens in old people. (6.) Cystitis is also a rare cause of mortahty; although Boyer attributes three-fourths of the' deaths after lithotomy to this cause, or its consequences by extension to the kidney or peritoneum. (7.) Pelvic cellulitis, as arising from infiltration of urine into the