SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 882 Bore and nnliealtliy state, besides incurring the danger, in a person of hsemorrliagic diathesis, of making fresh bleeding surfaces. Practically they need hardly ever be used. Fracture of portions or of the whole thickness of the jaw were comparatively common in the days of the old key instrument, but even now occur occasionally, even in the hands of practitioners presumably skilful. They do not call for any special remark here, and may bo treated on general principles. The Replacement of Lost Teeth by artificial substitates does not come within the scope of this article, although the aid of the dentist is often sought to fill up the gaps left by surgical operations, gunshot wounds, syphilitic necrosis, and the like, or to make an apparatus for fi,xing the fragments of a broken jaw. For this latter purpose, the more cumbrous apparatus formerly in vogue has been, to a large extent, superseded by the simple wire-splint of Mr. Hammond, which, especially as improved by my friend and colleague, Mr. Moon, fulfils all the requirements of a splint, whili; subjecting the patient to a minimum of inconvenience. In principle it consists merely of two pieces of stout but soft wire—one fitted as accurately as time allows around the inner surface of the necks of the teeth, the other around the outer surface; the two being laced together by binding wires passing between the teeth, and twisted tight on the outer splint-wire. There is, however, one class of cases in which it is often a matter of doubt whether a surgical operation or mechanical aid oifers the preferable alternative, and very divergent opinions may be held upon the matter. As a rule. Surgeons regard all cases of deft palate as amenable to operation, and are apt to be satisfied with a surgical success which has effected but little improvement in voice and speech. Dentists, per- haps, go too far in the opposite direction. It is, of course, an enormous advantage to the patient to be independent of mechanical aids, which may get out of order at inconvenient times, and hence, cceteris paribus, operation is to be preferred. I have no experience of the result of closure of the hard palate by Dieffenbach's operation, as regards im- provement in voice, but can hardly imagine any objection to its per- formance where the amount of palate existing offers any prospect of success, so that probably operative treatment is, in all favourable cases, preferable to the mechanical closure of the gap in the hard palate. But there are a large number of cases of division of the soft palate which may be successfully united by operation without con- ferring upon the patient the advantage hoped for. When the soft parts are scanty, the velum formed by the operation is so tense, and has such slight range of motion, that it is unable to fairly close the road to the posterior nares, and the patient is comparatively little benefited. An artificial apparatus is better than a very tense velum; so far so, that in the practice of Dr. Kingsley, of New York, who has done very mucli for the improvement of these apparatus, a velum united by a thoroughly successful surgical operation was, with the knowledge and consent ot the operating Surgeon, slit up again, and an artificial velum inserted with the best results. Indeed, one of the most eminent of American Surgeons, Dr. H. J. Bigelow, of Boston, told me that he now pcrtormea eleft-palate operations comparatively seldom, having been so pleased