841 NEURALGIA OP THE TESTICLE. formation. It may, indeed, be associated witli full intellectual vigour; and with a physique endowed with great muscular power, developed also by athletic exercises. But more often, the external indications of virility are defective when sexual power is wanting. Acquired impotence may be the result of prolonged sexual excesses, or of habitual physical exertion, in either way exhausting the nervous energy. Occasionally, it follows injuries of the head, and usually when the patient is convalescent. Wasting of the testicles is then perhaps the first announcement of generative failure; and this may continue, or the sexual powei; gradually returns. The Treatment of Impotence must have reference to its various causative conditions; consequently, it is often incurable. Neuralgia of the Testici-e.—This affection of the testis resembles neuralgia as occurring in other parts. The pain varies in character and severity; being sometimes dull and aching, or darting and so acute as to make the patient roll on the floor in sweating agony. Often the pain is paroxysmal. Various causes, local and constitutional, may give rise to this suf- fering ; any source of irritation in an adjacent organ, as stone in the bladder, kidney, or ureter; or disease of any part of the urinary appa- ratus ; varicocele ; gastric or hepatic irritation; or it may arise from a depressed state of the general health, especially as the consequence of malarious influence, and then the pain usually recurs periodically. The testicle itself is generally healthy in its structure. Treatment of a curative character implies the discovery and removal of the cause in operation, and these requisites cannot always be ful- filled. Tonics, especially quinine and iron, are remedial; particularly in the periodic form of the neuralgic affection. The hypodermic, or perhaps the testicular, injection of morphia might be worthy of trial. An ointment of aconitina—one grain to a drachm of lard—I have known to allay the pain; or fomentations with hot water, as hot as can be borne, will sometimes afford relief. Ought castration ever to be performed as a last resource to relieve pain, or in compliance with the urgent request of the patient ? The question is a serious one, inasmuch as it relates to the removal of an organ, not structurally diseased, and important in itself; and which may almost at any moment cease to afl&ict the paiient. But this ques- tion should be considered primarily with reference to the probability of thus removing the cause of neuralgia, as this painful affectioi. will at length undermine the general health, and also with regard to the urgency of the patient's request when the nature of the case is ex- plained to him, in an intermission of pain. Sir A. Cooper was induced by the latter consideration to perform castration in three cases of the kind; and other Surgeons have deemed it advisable to do the same- Yet the operation is justifiable only in rare and exceptional cases. _ Malposition of the Testicle.—In the fcBtus, the testes are con- tained within the abdomen, in the lumbar region ; whence they gradu- ally descend through the inguinal canal into the scrotum, a change of situation which is usually completed before birth. But, by an arrest of development, this descent of the testis may be retarded until after birth, and it may then never take place completely. The descent of this organ is delayed till a few months, or a year, after birth, in about one infant in five. It occuixed at a later period in many cases which