212 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. a limited area of transparency, will still further diminish the field of vision rn Fig. G19.* f V The different modes of making an artificial pupil may be arranged under the heads of division and excision of the iris. Division is performed by means of a cutting-needle, or with scissors. The needle is introduced close to the edge of the cornea, and carried across the anterior chamber to a little beyond the middle of the iris; the edge is then turned backwards, and the iris divided to the requisite extent. The instrument is rotated into its original position and withdrawn. Scissors may be used for dividing the iris—as proposed by Maunoir—and an ingenious form, termed cannula scissors, which can be introduced through a very small opening in the cornea, are now made by Messrs. Weiss. (Fig. 619.) Neither a linear nor V-shaped incision, however, can be easily accomplished when the iris is flaccid from the escape of all the aqueous humour. The principle of this mode of forming an artificial pupil consists in utilizing the elasticity of the fibres of the iris; retraction immediately following their division, and thus the formation of an artificial pupil. The probability of success will, therefore, be proportionate to the tension and the healthy retractile power of the iris. But this operative procedure is contra-indicated by a contrary state of the iris, and by the presence of the lens behind, which will almost surely be injured by a cutting instrument. Hence, the operation is restricted in its application to cases wherein, cataract having been extracted, pro- lapsus iridis has followed to such an extent as entirely to obliterate the pupil, and the iris is put on the stretch by its inclusion and union with the corneal cicatrix. Excision or Irideotomij.—This operation is especially indicated in cases where, from wounds or ulcers of the cornea, anterior synechia or adhesion of the iris to the cornea has taken place; secondly, m cases where, from iritis, posterior synechite or adhesion of the iris to the capsule of the lens has occurred; thirdly, in cases where, the n-is being perfectly healthy, the pupil is concealed by a dense central opacity of the cornea, the periphery of the cornea retaining its transparency ; fourthly, in certain cases of cataract, where the opacity of the lens is central, whilst the margin remains clear; and, lastly, it is frequently practised for the relief or cure of glaucoma and glaucomatous con- ditions of the eye. It is a deHcate operation; requires sharp instru- ments, a steady hand, some practice; and must, as a rule, be performed with the patient under the influence of chloroform. The steps ot the * Tills figure shows, at a, a pair of cannula forceps in a closed condition as it should be introduced through a small opening in the cormea and open, as it sliouUi be when no pressure is made on the lever forming part of the handle, and when it is ready to grasp the portion of iris-capsule or foreign body for which it has been introduced into the eye. At b is sliown a pair of cunnula scissors in the same conditions.