CUTANEOUS AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. 243 certain amount of hearing power. Operative measures in cases of congenital malformation should only be resorted to where, by placing a tuning-fork in contact with the mastoid process or teeth, it is deter- mined that the labyrinth and its connection with the sensorium is fairly healthy. The point of operation may sometimes be determined by passing a current of air through the Eustachian tube, and noting the point at which the impingement of air is heard best. This is accom- plished by using what is called Politzer's method, which consists in passing the soft nozzle of a caoutchouc bag (Fig. 640), filled with air, into one or other nostril of the patient with the right hand, while with the fingers of the left the Surgeon compresses the nostrils so as to prevent the exit of the air through them. The patient then swallows a mouthful of water, while at the same time the Sui'geon forcibly expels the air from the bag. (Fig. 641.) The air, finding no other passage open, rushes through the Eustachian tube into the cavity of the tympanum, so inflating the membrana tympani. This sudden rush of air against the drum the Surgeon hears by means of an india-rubber tabe (Fig. 642) passing from the meatus of his own ear to that of the jiatient. In young children, the current of air enters the Eustachian tube without the action of swallowing being necessary. In cases of absence of the meatus, the stethoscope may be used in order to deter- mine at which point the air impinges most forcibly, I'lo- 642.* and at this point the open- ing must be made. If hard or bony, the trephine will be necessary; xf soft, a knife will suffice. A cru- cial incision is made, and kept patent by the intro- duction of tents or other foreign bodies. Should no membrane be found on cutting down to its usual position, it is advisable to allow the artificial opening to close again. These congenital anomalies are often associated with hare-lip and cleft palate, and generally occur on one side only. Toynbee thinks that they are also accompanied by a peculiar square shape of the face, the lower jaw being very short. Cases in which the meatus was closed by a false membrane have been successfully operated upon by division of this structure and the subsequent introduction of tents. Other cases, in which there was merely a contraction of the orifice of the meatus, have been considerably benefited by the constant use of a tube fitted into the orifice, or by the excision of a portion of the cartilage. Cutaneous Affections.—Eczema.—The auricle is liable to be attacked by a variety of skin affections, such as eczema, impetigo, Jjerpes, pemphigus, and erysipelas, which should be treated as the same attections are treated in other parts. The most common of these f czema—may occur in either the acute or the chronic form; the charae- enstic symptoms being, in the auricle as in other parts, moistness, red- ness, heat, tension, blebs, fissures from which a watery fluid exudes, and the snnn^f'^^'^i^'^^^^*^*^ otoscope, used in auscultation of the ear to convey sound from the ear of the Surgeon to that of the patient. (St. John Eoosa.)