SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND BURGERY. 556 damage to this texture. On withdrawing the trocar, taking care that the cannula do not slip out after it, the fluid spouts out in a full stream and IS received into a pail below. A convenient and more elegant arrangement is the adaptation to the cannula of a tube of india-rubber provided with a stop-cock. The kind of fluid varies in colour and thickness; in ovarian dropsy, it is commonly of a brownish coffee- colour, turbid, and thick or of almost glutinous consistence between the thumb and finger, and it froths up as the stream continues. The assistants should draw the roller firmly, and especially as the stream weakens and dribbles, when air might pass back into the peritoneal cavity. Towards the last, the fluid may be tinged with blood, owing apparently to the mouth of the cannula impinging on the visceral layer of peritoneum. Theu, unless by further traction the stream can be resumed, the cannula should be withdrawn. The patient may become faint, as the fluid-pressure on the ab- dominal vessels diminishes; when a little brandy-and-water or wine may be administered, and the orifice of the cannula stopped with the finger for a while. Sometimes the fluid suddenly ceases to flow, a bit of intestine coming in contact with the end of the cannula, or the tube being blocked up ; in either case, the obstruction may be removed by introducing a piece of bougie or other blunt-pointed tube. On withdrawing the cannula, a small strip of adhesive plaster will suffice to close the abdominal aperture. A broad flannel bandage should, however, be well applied round the abdomen to maintain com- pression ; thus preventing faintness, and the reaccumulation of fluid or recurrence of dropsy. This operation may be modified according to circumstances; any other convenient situation may be chosen for the puncture, provided that there be no tympanitic resonance to indicate the presence of intestine, but the dulness on percussion of a fluid collection; and the course of the epigastric vessels must also be avoided. The intestine— a portion of jejunum—has been wounded, and yet the patient recovered. This accident occurred in a case communicated by Mr. Gay to the Pathological Society, which is recorded in the second volume of the Society's " Transactions." Tapping during pregnancy is an operative procedure the propriety of which would appear to be questionable. But although sometimes followed by the premature birth of the child, it has in many instances been practised, even at the seventh or eighth month, without inducing miscarria.ge. Accidental Jicemorrliage happens occasionally in the operation of tapping the abdomen ; arterial blood escapes through the cannula on being withdrawn beyond the abdominal cavity, or the patient turns faint subsequently from internal hismorrhage. This arises, apparently, from a punctured wound of the epigastric artery. Four or five such cases were collected by South in Chelius's Surgery, and one instance is recorded by Hamilton in his treatise on Military Surgery. The source of haemorrhage may, perhaps, be controlled by pressure ; either by the introduction of a gum elastic bougie as a plug, or by means of a graduated compress over the cannula-aperture, or by compression, if the abdominal wall be loose and can be raised up in a fold. The artery might be ligatured or twisted, by an incision to reach the vessel; but this would not be a very easy or safe procedure.