LATEBAL LITHOTOMY. 683 direction as obstetric forceps. If, as a rare mishap, the stone slips from the forceps, after having been withdrawn through the prostate, it can- not be reseized under the pubic arch, or without disturbing the cellular connections of the bladder and rectum; the finger should be passed into the bowel, to fix the stone from behind, and then, with the scoop, it may be drawn or tilted out of the wound. After removing tho stone, the finsrer should be reintroduced into the bladder to search for any other stone which may be present; or the searcher can be used for this purpose to reach parts of the bladder not readily accessible to the finger, as in front above the pubes. And as, in the act of withdrawing the knife through the prostatic incision, the finger at once followed it forward; so also, in withdrawing the forceps, the fiager is again made to follow this instrument, that thus the entrance to the bladder shall never be lost—an injunction the more imperative when the staff, as a guide, has been withdrawn. No second stone having been discovered, the operation is completed. Fig. 881. Fracture of the stone sometimes occurs, in seizing or in extracting it; and generally as the result of undue force in using the forceps, aided perhaps by the brittle character of the stone, as when the calculus is phos- phatic. This accident should be carefully avoided; for the fragments are apt to injure the bladder in any at- tempt to extract them, and it necessitates the repeated introduction of an instrument. The fragments are best removed by means of the scoop, with the forefinger resting on the end of this instrument, to keep the frag- ment from slipping out of the bowl. (Fig. 881.) The bladder should then be thoroughly washed out with tepid water, injected by a strong brass syringe through a tube introduced by the wound. Several small calculi are most readily removed in like manner—by the scoop. A gum-elastic tube may then be introduced through the wound into the bladder, and retained in position by perineal tapes. This instrument was formerly deemed serviceable for two purposes—as a means of arresting any oozing hgemorrhage, and for keeping the wound free of coagula; thus, by affording a clear passage, to prevent the infiltration of urine. But the latter risk is surely avoided by the limited prostatic incision; and the former advantage is more than counterbalanced in most cases, even although such hemorrhage prove troublesome, by the incessant concentration of the patient's attention to his bladder. The tube is now generally disused in this country. I have thus described the lateral operation of lithotomy as consist- ing of three steps—two of which are incisions—a superficial or perineal, including a deeper touch or two with the knife, and the deep or prostatic incision; and then, seizure and extraction of the stone : from the bladder. It should, however, be observed by the Student ■ that although these steps are described separately, they are performed I successively as one continuous operation. The procedure consists in 1 an alternate application of the left forefinger and the knife, or the : forceps. Commencing with the indication of the point for entering I the knife in the perineum, this is followed by the superficial perineal i incision ; then the finger is used successively as a protector, guide, 1 blunt gorget, and searcher, in the manner already explained, with