STONE IN THE BLADDER. 671 passage of urine; and morbid conditions of the urine, bloody urine in particular. In addition to these four symptoms, which severally may arise from other causes than stone, there is the physical sign of a hard body elicited by sounding the bladder with a metallic instrument, whereby a stone can be felt and heard when struck,—the sensation and sound as of stone being transmitted through a metallic instrument to the hand and ear. This touchstone, as to the presence of a calculus is conclusive, when available ; and it alone is far more diagnostic of stone than all the mere functional symptoms of its presence. Taking these symptoms in the order mentioned, their respective characters^ must be noticed more particularly. The pain is that of a dull weight about the neck of the bladder, and perhaps an uneasy sensation extending to the lower part of the abdomen, the perineum, or thighs, or even to more remote parts, as the knee, heel, foot, or arm; but the pain shoots along the penis and centres in the glans. Here the pain is more acute, and it is aggravated after each act of micturition, when the stone settles down on the more sensitive trigone vesical of the bladder behind the prostate. In consequence of this pain in the glans penis, children acquire the habit of constantly handhng and pulling the prepuce, whereby it becomes conspicuously enlarged and elongated; the recumbent position also is often souo-ht instinctively in passing water, to relieve the recurring attack'^of suffermg. The vesical irritability and frequent desire to evacuate the bladder are m like manner aggravated after micturition; for as the urme IS strained off by an urgent effort, the stone settles down on its sensitive bed. Thence micturition is not unfrequently spasmodic and involuntary. The semen may be ejected at the same time, and some- times with troublesome priapism ; and there is a tendency to prolapsus of the rectum, m consequence of the oft-repeated straining and spasmodic efforts to relieve the bladder. When the bladder is emptv any movement of the body will be more or less communicated to the stone, which rolls about with every change of posture. Personal experience soon restrains the sufferer's movements. Exercise is avoided, and he shuns any sudden or violent exertion; the pain is in creased also by any jolting motion, as in jumping, riding, or drivinc The tcrine passing frequently and in small quantities at a time, ma°v flow freely, m a full stream ; but it is very liable to stop abruvtly ^tT'^i? L "^^^^^^ forward suddenly against the neck of the bladder, thus closing the urethral orifice. The character of the urme changes. It becomes clouded and sometimes loaded with mucous or muco-purulent deposit, which may clear off as the bladder sets reconciled to the presence of a stone. But it is more often and cha?ac- teristically tmged or streaked with blood, sometimes amounting to vesical hemorrhage; and this symptom may continue for a ion° period. After micturition or any rough exercise, bloody urine is more : apt to occur, from attrition of the stone and interior of the hhdLT ■ Sounding the Bladder.-L sound is a solid steel instrument shaped ■ hke a catheter; but with a shorter curve, and havinrr'bu £ . extremity and a broad, flat, smooth handle It shouM L .than a fullWd catheter, thi^ reduction and Its I the instrument to be freely turned about in the bladder w>.?l« +^ .somewhat enlarged extremity may aid in detecting Mia Jne and .expanded handle render the sensation communicated moreJeCptibfe