SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 270 tlie lower eyelids depressed, exposing the eyes. The cicatrix itself has a dead white and polished aspect; its surface lies rather below the level of the surrounding skin, and is beseamed with white ridges or bands. This residuum integument has also lost the natural sensibility of true skin. Lupus erythematosus differs in being non-tubercular, as well as in not proceeding to ulceration. Commonly occurring on the nose, or some part of the face, the disease appears as a patch, of small size and irregular shape, but well-defined redness; the centre becomes coated with a dry cuticle, but the patch remains for a long while unchanged: and it terminates in a dry atrophied surface, or in a white depressed cicatrix, resulting from absorption of the true skin beneath the cuticle. This variety of lupus is sometimes associated with the non-exedens, as a sequel of that form of the disease. And similar lupoid erythematous spots may be found on the fingers, looking, at first sight, like chilblains. The diagnosis of lupus, in any form, is important, lest the disease should be mistaken for syphilitic eruptions of a tubercular and ulcer- ative, or an erythmatous character. But the scrofulous constitution of the patient, with perhaps the co-existence of other strumous affec- tions, will indicate the presence of lupus; while the association of syphilitic affections, coupled with the history of syphilis, would refer tiie skin-eruption to that disease. This method of diagnosis, by having regard to the constitutional condition, is more certain than any attempt to°distinguish the local forms of these two diseases. Lupus is met with, more often, in young persons from fifteen to thirty years of age ; some- times even in children; and more frequently in females. The fan- and delicate, or ruddy and healthy, appearance of the strumous patient con- trasts, indeed, sadly with the disfigurement which frequently results; but the aspect of youth and beauty differs also from the sallow, wan cachexia of advanced syphilis. The diagnostic characters of the Lupoid Ulcer as compared with those of Cancer Ulcer are described in connec- tion with Ulcers. j. • ^ Treatment.—Constitutional measures are more remedial than topical applications, in the treatment of any form of Lupus. The general health must be renovated; assimilation and nutrition, more especially, should be improved by means of iron, quinine, iodine, and cod-hver oil—the former medicinal agents being administered in such preparations as may seem to have the most beneficial effect. Thus, the syrup of the iodide of iron, with the sulphate of quinine, are generally the most efficacious ; and, in children, the superphosphate of_ iron is often most valuable Arsenic may be tried, when other remedies fail; and, when a syphilitic taint is suspected, iodide of potassium, and mercury, may be resorted to with advantage. The hygienic resources of air and exercise, with baths and warm clothing, to promote the circulation in the skin, must never be overlooked. Turning our attention to local applications ; in the early stage of lupus, as a tubercular affection or an erythematous patch, the disease may perhaps yield under stimulation, conioined with constitutional treatment. Different Surgeons pretei various remedies; such as a solution of nitrate of silver ten grains -to the ounce; or of cantliarides in acetic acid ; the benzoated oxide ot ainc ointment; or iodine paint. Ulcerative lupus should be subjected ,to cauterization, freely and decidedly applied to the ulcer. Here, again, various caustics maybe used: strong nitric acid the acid ni^^^^^^^^^^ mercury, potassa fusa, or chloride of zmc. I employ the latter, mixed