820 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. a wound of a vessel in tapping hydrocele. Spontaneous hoematocelc ig also said to occur, appai-ently from rupture of an enlarged spermatic vein. In heematocele of the cord, rupture of an enlarged spermatic vein is the source of effusion. Hcematocele of the Tunica Vaginalis.—An effusion of blood into the tunica vaginalis may occur as an original affection, or supervene upon hydrocele. Signs.—In both cases a swelling is presented, which slowly and gradually increases in size, until it attains to that of a duck's egg or a cocoa-nut, or even to that of a melon. The swelling is more or less fluctuating and opaque. Sometimes ecchymosis of the scrotum is pro- duced, whereby the tumour has a characteristic dark-coloured or black appearance, which, however, gradually disappears. Diagnosis.—When tke haematocele is a primary affection, its sudden appearance is distinctive, especially when the swelling is known to have immediately followed a blow, and is not the product of inflamma- tion. When a hydrocele suddenly enlarges and loses its transparency, an effusion of blood has probably taken place. Ecchymosis of the scrotum, in either case, will confii'm the diagnosis. Chronic hoBmatocele, and without any ecchymosis, may be mistaken for other tumours in the scrotum. The diagnosis must then be determined by the distinct- ness of fluctuation, the rate of increase of the swelling, and its cause. Cancer of the testicle is apt to be mistaken for haematocele ; in nume- rous instances, malignant testis has been opened for haamatocele; and the more serious error has been committed of removing an haematocele for malignant disease. The most constant distinction is the steadily increasing growth of cancer; whereas hismatocele sometimes ceases to enlarge, or even diminishes in size. Puncture of the tumour should always be resorted to as the turning-point of diagnosis, before pro- ceeding to remove the testicle. Treatment.—In recent hasmatocele, and where the blood yet remains fluid, absorption may, perhaps, be induced; by rest, cold lotions, or leeches, according to the inflammatory state of this affection. Even when hematocele supervenes on hydrocele, this treatment has proved effectual, without any operative interference. In more advanced and chronic hfematocele, the state of the blood, as being fluid or solidified, will mainly indicate the requisite operative .procedure. Fluid blood can be evacuated by tapping; and with iodine injection a radical cure may be effected, as in hydrocele. The admix- ture of a proportion of blood with serous fluid, will probably not frus- trate this method of cure. In haematocele, as in hydrocele, the variable ■position of the testicle should be remembered in puncturing the tunica vaginalis. Commonly situated at the back of the sac, the testis was found in front, and was wounded, in two cases recorded by Mr, Curling. Solidified, or firmly coagulated blood, cannot be evacuated by puncture ; it will then become necessary to make a free incision so as to lay the tunica vaginalis entirely open, to turn out the clots, and wash it out thoroughly by syringing. Otherwise, any remnant blood undergoing decomposition in the sac, sloughing and systemic infection are liable to result. Profuse htemorrhage has, however, been known to follow free incision; a source of danger which cannot be avoided.^ When the hfematocele has attained a very large size, and the tunica