FISTULA IN ANO. 559 Fistula in Ano.—Any pus-secreting tract which passes np by the side of the anus is designated, from its proximity, a fistula in ano. It results from the contraction and partial closure of an ischio-rectal abscess, leaving Fig. 832 * only this narrow channel. Commonly, it opens both internally, into the bowel, and externally in the vicinity of the anus; sometimes, there is but one orifice,—an external, or an internal. Corresponding conditions of fistula may, therefore, be re- cognized. Gomplete fistula has two openings ; one into the bowel, another on the surface of the skin. (Fig. 832.) Incomplete or blind fistula has but one opening; an external opening on the skin, but no communication with the bowel,—constituting Hind external fistula; or there may be an internal opening into the bowel, but no opening on the skin,—forming hlind internal fistula. These fistulous openings have some features worthy of notice. The integumental orifice is situated usually over the fossa by the side of the anus ; but it may be removed to some distance outwards and posteriorly at the back of the buttock, and towards the great trochanter. In point of size, the orifice is smaller or larger, admitting only a probe or a director easily; it has a puffed, everted appearance, with perhaps pro- tuberant granulations indisposed to close, and moist with a constantly oozing, fetid, purulent discharge. Sometimes, there is more than one fistulous opening, even several, resembling a water-pot spout, and all discharging matter. These orifices are scattered in various directions near the anus; and lead by very tortuous, devious routes to the abscess, and thence to the bowel; branch sinuses, perhaps, passing off from these fistulous tracts. On either side of the gut, also, one or more fistulous openings may have formed. Occasionally, an external open- ing on either side leads to a fistula which runs round the bowel, usually backwards, and there communicates with the gut by a single orifice ; or an external and an internal opening may be found on opposite sides, the fistulous passage running round the bowel; thus in either way forming a horseshoe fistula. The rectal orifice varies chiefly in its height up the bowel. Commonly, it is situated just above the sphincter ani, where the rectum enlarges, especially in old people and females; this opening is, however, not the termination of the fistula, which usually runs up further outside the bowel into the cul-de-sac. It has been affirmed by some of the best authorities, that the inner orifice of fistula in ano is never higher up in the bowel than about the spot referred to. Mr. Ribes in 1820, and previously, I believe, Sabatier, held this opinion; it was supported by Sir B. Brodie and Mr. Syme, and the special observations of Dr. Bushe, of 'New York, tend to the same conclusion. On the other hand, Mr. Curling disproves this con- clusion, and although Mr. Quain does not take up the question in his clinical lectures on Diseases of the Rectum, yet the facts there stated are equally opposed. In Case 29 of these lectures, the inner opening * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., Q. 164. Fistula in ano, with the sphincter ani muscle across the passage.