ODONTALGIA.—EXTRACTION OF TEETH. 329 J ^-f frpnuencv of occurrence:—the parietal region, the ?n ° fnoth of the othrfaw, the supra-orbital notch, the infra-orbital ?"r;n he eyeball ( hi mischief would generally be found in an foramen the eyebau ^ temporo-maxillary articulation, and r'rV. n o^^^^^^^^ - the Wd tooth. In these last • f^P^i the lower wisdom tooth is most frequently the offender. ItTgene^^^^^^^ that the severer forms of neura gia are never due to dSurritation. This is generally, but not nmversally, true I have seen a case due to an impacted wisdom tooth, m which most Lcruciatinc agony in the eyeball recurred at regular times, wice in L twenty-four hours. It was instantly cured by the removal, which wfls difficult, of the misplaced tooth, ., , • i Thfpain, in rarer instances, may be referred to the occipital nerve, nr to the arm and shoulder. . ,. Any or all of those secondary affections which occur m connection with neuralgia due to other causes, may occur when the neuralgia owes its ori'3'in to diseased teeth. . ,. Thus, spasmodic contraction of the masseter is a common comphca- tion of difficult eruption of a lower wisdom tooth; wry-neck, strabismus, and ptosis are examples of muscular disturbances which have been un- questionably traced to dental irritation. -, i j n -i, A very slight degree of paralysis of the arm and hand of the side affected, amounting to not much more than a sense of effort m using them, is not at all rare. Amaurosis has been clearly traced to this cause; and deafness during eruption of wisdom teeth is not very rare. Iniection of the conjunctiva on the affected side is sometimes un- doubtedly associated with dental neuralgia, and there is hence reason to believe it probable that deep-seated inflammation of the eye may be thus set np. Epileptiform convulsions are beUeved to have been traced to the irritation set up by teeth. It may be noticed that almost all the diseased conditions to which teeth are liable have been enumerated as causes of neuralgia; under what circumstances the same apparent conditions cause local tooth- ache, neuralgia, or no symptoms at all, we do not know. But the same tooth, with no apparent local change, may give rise to toothache one day, to neuralgia the next, and to nothing at all on the third; and look- ing to the great frequency of diseases of the teeth and to the compara- tive rarity of neuralgia, it is obvious that there must be some concur- rence of influences not always present to produce this result. The Extraction of Teeth may be caUed for in order to give space tor the more orderly arrangement of the remaining teeth; because the tooth is misplaced and is a source of irritation; or because it is painful and does not admit of being restored to a healthy condition. As a general rule it may be said that, provided there be enough left of it to make its preservation worth while, no tooth need be extracted as incurable unless its roots are materially altered by long-standing iiTitation. A first or a recent gumboil admits of tolerably certain cure, if only the roots of the tooth are fairly pervious. The object to be attained is to remove the tooth with the smallest possible injury to its alveolus. In the case of many teeth with diver- gent or convergent fangs, injury is inevitable, the form of the part being such that the tooth could not be removed were not the socket either yielding or sufficiently fragile to break.