538 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGEEY. ternal oblique muscle may be wanting; or in a large, old hernia a similar state may have resulted from prolonged distension, and the fat subcutaneous, in the superficial fascia, or that over the peritoneal investment, may have disappeared. All the coverings are often in- separably united together, so that the common covering is frequently very thin, and the contents of the sac become more or less perceptible. The umbilical aperture forms a very firm and unyielding tendinous margin around the neck of the sac, itself somewhat thicker at this part than oyer its expanded part or body. The mouth of the sac is often large in proportion to the bulk of the protrusion. As the hernia increases in size, the varying anatomical relation of the umbilical aperture becomes important. The tumour does not extend uniformly upon the anterior surface of the abdomen, but downwards towards the symphysis pubis more than in any other direction. Occasionally, the transverse diameter of the tumour exceeds the vertical, or it may be pyriform and suspended by a peduncle or stalk. Sometimes, it is sessile, with a base almost as large as its body; or it may be only apparently so, and when elevated is found to have a small stalk, thus resembling a mushroom in shape. The visceral contents of umbilical hernia are, usually, both intestine, large or small, and omentum—an entero-epiplocele ; and in a large hernia, nearly the whole intestinal canal, small and large intestine, may be found enveloped by omentum. The latter sometimes becomes firmly adherent to the sac, or bands are produced by which the intestine becomes entangled ; while by harden- ing and contraction of the omentum, this portion of the protrusion forms anomalous masses within the sac. Other viscera, occasionally, are included, as the stomach, liver, spleen, or uterus; in one case, Murray found that the gravid uterus, at the eighth month of preg- nancy, formed the contents of an umbilical hernia. When congenital—existing at the time of birth—the hernia is formed by a dilatation of the umbilical cord, the protrusion separating the constituent vessels of the cord, so that the umbilical vein lies above, and the arteries on one side or Fig. 817. below. This dilated portion of the cord contains a peritoneal pouch, enclosing usually a knuckle of small intestine. The stricture in this kind of hernia, is the firm margin of the umbilical ring. Rarely, the sac having given way, the extruded bowel or omentum has become strangulated in the peritoneal aperture; instances of which oc- curred in the practice of Sir A. Cooper. Certain signs in connection with the tumour are characteristic. The hernia commences as a small, soft, projecting ovoid swelling, at the navel. (Fig- 817.) It gives a distinct impulse on coughing, but is readily reducible by gentle pressure with the finger; and a small aperture is then felt, liaving a firm sharp border. On removing the finger, the skin remains relaxed and creased in the fossa of the