OPERATION OF JOINT-EXCISION. 7 Fig. 478* operation may be a piecemeal proceeding; as, not unfrequently, in the elbow-joint. But tbe results of reparation, in the production of osseous thickening, spiculated or nodular enlargement, must not be confounded with the results of disease. In groioing long bones—i.e., in young per- sons, joint-excision should not extend beyond the epiphyses, or at least the epiphysial cartilages, in the ends of bone, on which the further longitudinal growth of bone, and thence of the limb, depends. The sections of bone should be parallel, so that the opposed osseous surfaces may be adjusted in apposition ; a rule particularly important when osseous union is required, as in the knee. (4) Skin and subjacent integument, ex- clusive of thickened synovial membrane, rarely need be removed; the soft parts recovering a healthy state, and protecting the ends of bone from exposure. Professor Spence lays stress on the necessity for removing all the diseased synovial mem- brane, or of destroying any inaccessible ^portion by cauterization, as with a solution of chloride of zinc (one part to thirty), perchloride of iron, or strong tincture of iodine. I have not yet had occasion to use any such application in any joint-excision. (5.) Hcemorrhage may be arrested by torsion of the arterial vessels; ligature is rarely if ever requisite. Sponging with cold water will arrest any oozing hsemor- rhage, and wash away any adherent particles of bone or clots. (6.) The ends of bone must be placed in apposition, but not absolute contact; par- ticularly when ligamentous union is re- quired, as in the hip or elbow. (7.) The attitude of the limb must have regard to its functional uses, after excision of the joint. Thus, in the lower extremity, the hip-joint and the knee should be straight, for support of the trunk and for progression. In the upper extremity, the elbow-joint should be semiflexed, to pre- vent osseous union, and to provide for the relative movements of the forearm and hand. {8) Betentive appliances should have regard to the necessity, or otherwise, for a fixed position of the limb, as the umon required may be osseous or ligamentous. A suitable splint or splints and bandaging must be applied, so as to prevent the liability of movement in°the directions of displacement peculiar to the joint, after excision ; leaving the operation-wound accessible for dressing. This principle of treat- ment will be fully illustrated by the retentive appliances proper for each particular joint. * Figure showing Lines of Incision for Excision:-!. Of the Knee; 2. Hip; 3. Ankle; 4. Elbow; 5. Shoulder; G. Wrist.