SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 203 plcteness and probable permanency. But, in iritis, the retina is often almost as seriously aiiected as the iris itself; and this concomitant disease has been discovered by the ophthalmoscope. Causes.—Iritis may have a traumatic origin, and arise as a conse- quence of various injuries of the eye, or of its over-functional exertion; or the disease may be a local manifestation of various constitutional conditions—secondai'y syphilis, rheumatism, gout, or scrofula. One or both eyes may be affected; in the former case by injury, in the latter by constitutional disease. But in some such cases, both eyes are attacked at the same time, or in succession, and occasionally the disease is limited to one eye; or, relapses occurring, the eyes may be affected alternately. These manifestations of constitutional disease are all illustrated by Syphilitic Iritis. Varieties of Iritis.—Inflammation of the iris varies, like other dis- eases, in its intensity and duration, whereby it is distinguished as the acute and chronic forms of iritis. But its modifications correspond also, and more particularly, to the constitutionally causative conditions; thence, the syphilitic, rheumatic or gouty, and scrofulous forms of Iritis. Their symptomatic distinctions are far less definite. (a.) Syphilitic Iritis.—Lymph-effusion is the most marked feature, taking place rapidly and abundantly; nodules of lymph make their appearance, of a yellow, reddish-yellow, or nearly red colour, situated especially about the edge of the pupil, and encroaching upon or even occluding the pupillary area. The cornea often remains perfectly transparent, even when the iritis is most severe. On the other hand, those symptoms which more peculiarly accompany rheumatic ii-itis are absent—a generally diffused redness of the sclerotic, and great intolerance of light. Diagnosis.—But the nodular appearance of lymph is so uncertain, as to render its diagnostic value very doubtful. Thus, the lymph may be uniformly distributed around the margin of the pupil, which then assumes a thickened ring-like appearance ; the rest of the iris retaining almost or altogether its healthy aspect. Occasionally, nodules of lymph, instead of forming on the edge of the pupil, are situated on the circumference of the iris, adjoining the cornea. These may either soften and form an abscess on the iris, or, enlarging like gummata, burst through the cornea or sclerotic, and lead to atrophy of the globe. Other secondary syphilitic affections of the throat or skin are usually present with, or have preceded, the iritis. This concurrence is far more surely diagnostic. (b.) Rheumatic Iritis.—A general diffused redness of the sclerotic, as the most marked appearance, and great intolei-ance of light, with orbital radiating and neuralgic pain, are the most characteristic symp- toms. The cornea is almost always hazy. But the nodular form of lymph-deposit is absent, and effusion takes place so sparingly and in- sidiously, that the morbid changes in the iris, thus slightly marked, may escape observation, in the first instance. When the inflamrnation has subsided, and the cornea become clear, irremediable adhesion of the iris may then be discovered. The disease seems plainly of rheumatic origin, and is frequently associated with other rheumatic affections. (c.) Scrofulous Iritis.—The ocular appearances have a general resemblance to those of syphilitic iritis, in the abundant deposit of