ULCER OF THE RECTUM, AND FISSURE OF THE ANUS. 565 folds of mucous membrane and integument wbicb surround the anus. The ulcer is not more than half an inch long, and a line in breadth, of an ovoid or club shape, the floor having a red or grey colour, and its margins are indurated and well defined. An overhanging pile is often associated with fissure; and, according to Mr. AUingham's observations, a gelatinous or fibrous polypus is a not uncommon complication ; the polypus being situated usually at the ujDper or internal end of the fissure, but perhaps on the opposite side of the bowel. Two or more fissures also not unfrequently coexist. The Syviptoms of these ulcerative affections are easily recognized. Both states are acutely painful, out of all proportion to the limited extent of structural lesion, and the constantly recurring suffering gives a remarkably haggard and pallid expression of countenance; both states also, especially rectal ulcer, are attended with more or less spasmodic contraction of the sphincter,—like that of an india-rubber band, having a sharp upper margin, and with some irritability of the urinary bladder, a tendency to spasmodic stricture and seminal emissions. Spasm of the sphincter has been regarded as a peculiar and independent affection —such is the opinion of Copeland and Syme; it is more probably, as Mr. Quain alleges, secondary and sympathetic. Proceeding to diagnosis:—^with ulcer of the rectum, sometimes di.c- tinguished as "painful" and "irritable" ulcer, there is most acute burning pain in passing a motion; the suffering increases after the act, and continues for a considerable period, varying from a quarter of an hour to several hours, and then subsiding into ease until the bowels are again moved. With fissure of the anus, there is smarting or even equal pain, as a motion passes; but it subsides Avithin a few minutes, when the temporary irritation has ceased, and the more readily if the part be sponged and cleansed properly after the act. Then, again, some amount of bloody purulent discharge may be observed in both ulcera- tive affections ; but in that of the rectum, there is no external appearance of ulceration, unless the pai-t be protruded and carefully examined ; yet the ulcer can be felt and seen. On introducing the finger just within the anus, and generally towards the coccyx, a small depressed surface can be detected; touching this spot causes sharp, burning pain, and provokes a more powerful spasmodic contraction of the sphincter around the end of the finger. By examining the rec- tum with the speculum ani (Mg. 836), the ulcer may be brought into view through the open side of the tube. To facilitate either method of examination, in this and all other painful affections of the interior of the rectum, the influence of chloroform is an invaluable boon both to the patient and the Surgeon. In fissure of the anus, the ulcer-crack can be dis- covered by a little careful search externally. The causes of these ulcerative affections would seem to be ; rectal constipation, in the production of ulcer within the bowel, and this may be aided by violent straining defa3catioTi; while the external fissui'e is probably induced by want of cleanliness, as by gonorrhoea! matter coming in contact with the thin sensitive skin around the anus, or by that syphilitic discharge which begets mucous tubercles. Female.?,