SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 64 forearm and band, was well exhibited in one of my own cases (Case 1); a milliner and dressmaker who could work witb her needle readily and untiringly,—a seven years' permanent result of excision. Injury of the ulnar nerve—an occasional accident during the opera- tion—is followed by loss of sensation in the little finger and adjoining side of the ring finger, with perhaps loss of motion and wasting of the finger; but the sense of touch may return, and the other ill con- sequences cease, apparently by reunion of the wounded nerve. This accident, judging from the digital paralysis, happened in one of my own cases,—that of the milliner just mentioned; but the symptoms passed off entirely, as the functional use of the finger showed. Be-excision may be practised—as in the knee—when necessary, rather than resort to amputation ; and even a third such attempt has, it is said, been made with good results. In my table of Hospitals, 21.9 cases; of the 197 recoveries from the primaiy excision, three only are noted as having undergone re-excision, but with no death. Of my own cases, in the first five I had to re-excise one, and with a thoroughly suc- cessful result,—the patient resuming his occupation as a postman. - Secondary Amputation.—Of the 104 recoveries after excision, in Hodges' collection of 119 cases, fifteen of that number underwent amputation subsequently. Prom the collection of Hospitals, we learn that, of the 197 recoveries, three only were subjected to amputation, with one fatal issue. The following cases in which I excised the elbow-joint, for disease, are here grouped together, as exhibiting the most essential particulars relating to the question of this operation ; and the permanent results are also stated. The notes from which I have drawn up these abstracts were carefully taken, excepting in the first case, by Mr. T. C. Murphy, formerly senior house sui'geon at the Royal Free Hospital. Typical Cases of Elbow-joint Excision. — Case 1. — Margaret R , set. 25. Chronic synovitis, of traumatic origin, one and a half year's duration, one year and two months' treatment. Partial ulcera- tion of the articular cartilages of the humerus, ulna, and radius; with semiflexed position of the limb. Excision. Recovery, with a movable joint and useful limb, in six weeks. Result known to he permanent after seven years. For the particulars of this case I am indebted to my late colleague, Mr. John D. Hill, then senior house surgeon in the Hospital. Case 2.—Thomas H. B , aet. 29. Chronic synovitis, of traumatic origiuj one year's duration and treatment. Ulceration of the artictilar cartilages of the humerus, ulna, and radius; with semiflexed position of the limb. Excision. Recovery, with a partially movable joint. Subsequent formation of abscess and sinuses. Re-excision. Recovery, with a movable joint and a limb useful, in flexion, extension, pro- nation, and supination. Result known to he permanent after one year and four months. Case 3.—Mary M , set. 28. Acide synovitis, of traumatic origin, one month's duration. Partial ulceration of the articular cartilages of the humerus, ulna, and radius, with subjacent caries; a semiflexed position of the limb; excessive and paroxysmal pain. Excision. Recovery, with a movable joint by passive motion, in six weeks. Result knoivn to he perm.anent after one year. Case 4.—Jane T , set. 31. Scrofulous caries of the ends of the