SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. how it is that, wlien a magnet is struck a heavy blow with a hammer the magnetic force is jarred, shaken, or concussed out of the horse' snoe. But we know that it is so, and that the iron has lost its mae- netic power. So, if the spine is badly jarred, shaken, or concussed by a blow or shock of any kind communicated to the body, we find that the nervous force is to a certain extent shaken out of the man, and that he has in some way lost nervous power. The secondary changes of structure which the spinal cord undergoes are those of inflammation, of a chronic character; and as affecting the menibranes—chronic Spinal Meningitis, and the cord—chronic Spinal Myelitis; the former usually extending to, or being accompanied with, a similar affection of the cerebral meninges—chronic Cerebral meningitis. In Spinal Meningitis, the structural alterations consist of increased vascularity of the membranes, the meningo-rachidian veins being en- gorged, and the vessels of the pia mater injected, in patches or°uni. formly ; serous fluid, reddish and clear, or opaque from the admixture lymph, is effused, more or less in quantity, within the arachnoid, or there may be adhesion of its visceral and parietal surfaces, and puriform lymph in the sub-arachnoid space. In Spinal Myelitis, the inflam- mation affecting the substance of the cord, this undergoes softening and atrophy—the whole of the nervous substance even disappearing, and leaving nothing but connective tissue at the part affected. The extent of this structural change varies ; the whole thickness of the cord may be affected at one point, or one of the lateral halves in a ver- tical direction, or it may be limited to the anterior or posterior aspect; or restricted principally to the central grey portion, rather than the circumferential part of the cord. When myelitis is consecutive to meningitis, the inflammatory softening may—according to OUivier's observations—be limited to the white substance. These alterations of structure may have taken place in one region only; in the lumbar por- tion of the cord, most frequently; in the cervical, next in order of fre- quency ; in the dorsal, less commonly. The whole length of the cord is very rarely affected. Induration, with hypertrophy, of the nervous substance of the cord—which resembles boiled white of egg—instead of softening and atrophy, may be the result of chronic myelitis, as in the case of Count de Lordat; and similar cases are related by Portal, Ollivier, and Abercrombie. Spinal Meningitis and Myelitis occasionally exist separately, either without the other; more commonly they coexist, but associated in very different degrees. As the result of railway collision, only one case of post-mortem ex* amination is recorded, where death had ensued from the secondary and remote effects of Concussion of the spinal cord; and whereby the symptoms observed during life were shown to be dependent on the pathological changes of structure which, from the history of this one completed case, are presumed to exist in other similar cases. The patient was under the care of Mr. Gore, of Bath, who, however, did not see him until about a year after the accident, and then at intervals up to the time of death. The case was that of a man, middle-aged, of active business habits, who having been in a railway collision, and without any sign of external injury—wound, bruise, fracture, or dislo- cation—began to manifest the usual nervous symptoms. He gradually,