319 ALVEOLAR ABSCESS. pump carbolic acid well up into tbe root, so as to render harmless any- tiny fragment that might remain; or, if the pulp is already decom- posed and liquefied, to take care that his instruments do not act as pistons, and force out at the end of the root septic fluids prior to their having been rendered harmless by carbolic acid. The first stage in the formation of abscess is a periostitis of that common periosteum which clothes tooth-root and bone of socket alike ; owing to swelling of this, the tooth is slightly elevated and pushed up out of its socket, so that it has increased mobility. The tooth will be tender when bitten upon,—tender to any jar, but not so tender but that the patient feels rather disposed to bite firmly upon it, and press it Lome from time to time. Next, the soreness becomes much greater, and tenderness is perceptible on pressing upon the exterior of its alveolus; it becomes much more painful, and severe throbbing sets in, followed by swelling and the formation and ultimate discharge of pus. The pain usually moderates with the appearance of swelling, and the discharge of pus takes place by an opening through the alveolus and gum over the end of the root, or in the sulcus between the cheek and the teeth; or it may find its way to the surface and burst exter- nally, or through the tooth itself, or between the tooth and its socket. There are all degrees of alveolar abscess, from one which comes with so little pain as to be hardly noticed, to one which causes such swelling of the face and febrile disturbance as to look almost like an erysipe- latous attack. The treatment is to obviate the cause by thoroughly impregnating the pulp-cavity with carbolic acid, so as to render harmless what it may contain ; and, if it be in an early stage, to paint the gum over with equal parts of tincture of iodine and aconite, several times in the day. If it has gone on to the formation of matter, also give exit to it at once, lest it burrow and the abscess break externally. An acute alveolar abscess often terminates in a chronic gumboil; instead of healing, a small fistula remains, through which a very small amount of pus discharges. If the gumboil be at all receni, it may as a rule be speedily cured, especially if there be a fistulous opening close to the end of the root. In that case, if the root-canal be of sufficient size, carbolic acid can be pumped down through the canal and made to pass out through the gums. When it can thus be thoroughly cleansed by an antiseptic, its healing speedily follows. The root can then be filled, and the crown-cavity subsequently dealt with. But there are many cases of alveolar abscess in which, from the long-standing alteration in the surrounding part and in the root itself (which becomes exostosed, etc.), or from the size and shape of the roots rendering it impossible to get instruments down them, extrac- tion of the tooth will finally be resorted to. And there is an intermediate class of cases, in which the alveolar abscess cannot be entirely healed and the parts rendered so healthy, that there is absolutely no discharge, and the roots can be filled, but which are nevertheless not painful; these admit of being dealt with in another manner. If the pulp-cavity of such a tooth be thoroughly cleansed and disin- fected, and the tooth filled without filling the root and pulp-cavity, it would soon become painful from the resumption of greater activity'in the skmbering abscess, due to a retention of its secretion. But if a very