CHEONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. 747 ■ urine perbaps tlaence escaping, as if tlie instrument had entered its cavity; and in the next place, to depress the handle of the instrument sufficiently, so as to cui:ve upwards into the bladder and avoid hitch- ing against any enlargement of the middle lobe. Care should be taken to empty the receptacle behind the prostate, by turning and depressing the point of the instrument. The patient should be taught to pass it in his own person, that he may relieve himself as occasion requires. A gum-elastic catheter, of large size, will then be more convenient and safer than the silver instrument; the patient intro- ducing it bit by bit. When the point of the instrument has reached the prostatic urethra, the stylet is to be withdrawn, that the curve of the catheter may slide upwards into the bladder. Mercier's sonde coudee, a beaked elastic catheter, may prove advantageous when an obstruction arises from enlargement of the middle lobe, more espe- cially ; or the sojide bicoudee, having a second beak, is thus adapted to mount up more readily into the bladder. (Fig. 912.) As a rale, it will be unnecessary and undesirable to allow the catheter to remain in the bladder; but if it be requisite to procure ease and sleep, this continued Fig. 912. Fig. 913.* use of the instrument affords great comfort. It may be left in the bladder during the night, for example. The gum-elastic or a vulcanized india-rubber catheter is then preferable, as being less liable to irritate the mucous mem- brane. By thus habitually relieving habitual retention, the patient's existence is rendered more tolerable or even enjoyable, and life may be considerably pro- longed. When no instrument can be got into the bladder, other methods of gaining an entry may be resorted to. They are—forcible catheterism or tunnelling the prostate ; puncture of the bladder through the rectum; or puncture above the pubes. Of these three methods, forcible catheterism is recommended by * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mns., 2509. Effects of forcible catheterism; showing tun- nelling of the enlarged middle lobe of a prostate. The prostatic and membranous portions of the urethra were acutely inflamed, and near the glans penis abscess had probably occurred. The patient, an old man, had often previously been relieved of retention by means of a catheter ; but a Surgeon, having found some difficulty in entering the bladder, perforated the prostate with the instrument; and death ensued in two or three weeks. (J. G. Crosse.)