614 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUP.GEPvY. The spongy portion of the urethra extends from the membranous part, at the bulb, to the external orifice, at the end of the glans penis. Continuing the curve of the membranous urethra up to the symphysis pubis, and then descending in the pendent penis, on its under surface, this portion of the urethra is enclosed in the corpus spongiosum. It is the longest portion of the whole urethra, measuring six inches, more or less, according to the length and state of the penis ; its diameter is somewhat dilated in the bulb,—as the bulbous sinus, and again in the glans,—forming the fossa navicularis; and in both these parts, the floor of the passage is most dilated. In the interval between these dilata- tions, the spongy urethra is of smaller size, about three lines in diameter; and at the external orifice, the urethra is even more con- tracted, that being the narrowest point of the whole tube. In the course of the urethral canal, it should be observed that its size or diameter varies. There are three dilated parts—the pro- static sinus, the bulbous sinus, and the fossa navicularis in the glans penis; and of these, the first named is the widest part of the whole canal. Other parts are more or less narrow, and the narrowest is the external orifice in the glans. The form of the canal is of less practical consequence, but a section differs also in different parts of its extent; in the prostate, it has a triangular shape, with the apex downwards ; in the membranous and spongy portions of the passage, a trans- verse opening,—except in the glans, and at the urethral orifice, which presents a vertical fissure opening,—meatus urinarius. The mucous membrane of the urethra is a prolongation of the genito-urinary; being continuous with that of the bladder, ureters, and kidneys, and with offsets lining the prostatic and ejaculatory ducts. The ducts of Cowper's glands pass forward—in the mem- branous portion, beneath the mucous membrane, to the extent of an inch or more, and open by two oblique pin-hole apertures, in the floor of the bulbous portion of the urethra, at its fore part. The urethral mucous membrane has a reddish colour, but is paler in the prostatic portion. Throughout its course this membrane is loosely connected by submucous tissue to the corpus spongiosum or erectile structure which encloses the tube; so that the mucous surface of the membrane pre- sents longitudinal folds, which, however, are effaced when the canal is distended during micturition or by the passage of an instrument. Numerous mucous follicles and lacunas stud the surface, especially along ihe floor of the urethra, and in the bulbous part; but the largest—lacuna magna—is situated in the fossa navicularis, on its upper surface. These openings are directed forwards, towards the outer urethral orifice; a larger one than usual may, therefore, offer some hitching impediment to the passage of a small-sized instrument along the urethral canal. The corpus spongiosum is that erectile structure which surrounds the urethra, from the end of the membranous portion to the external orifice of the urethra. Commencing just in front of the triangular ligament,—rather behind the converging crura of the corpora cavernosa, which chiefly form the body of the penis,—the corpus spon- giosum appears in the shape of a flattened ovate extremity—the biM, projecting backwards beneath the membranous urethra, in front of the triangular ligament. Continued forwards as a cylindrical investment of the urethra, the corpus spongiosum lies in a groove or furrow on