829 CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE TESTICLE. wtole organ is enlarged and irregular, at an early period of the disease. Tubercular deposit, in the form of grey, semi-transparent, granular tubercles—as found in the lungs—may represent the kind of deposit in the enlarged testicle; thence named tuberculous sarcocele. (Fig. 958.) Hydrocele sometimes ensues, disguising the testicular enlargement, until the fluid is evacuated. Generally one testicle only is affected, though both may be involved. The almost painless character of the disease, as in syphilitic sarco- cele, reduces the diagnosis of these two vai-ieties of sarcocele to the external characters of the enlarged testis; and as these are not positively distinctive, the nature of the disease can only be determined by the coexistence of other scrofulous affections or tendencies. Thus, the condition of the lungs should be examined, and that of the prostate and seminal vesicles; the latter parts being not unfrequently also enlarged by scrofulous deposit. The conseqiiences of scrofulous sarcocele are not peculiar; but the Fig. 958.* Fig. 959.t tendency to suppuration and abscess, foUovped by hernia testis, is even more marked than in syphilitic sarcocele. There is also abscess in the epididymis, extending up the vas deferens, and converting their hardened enlargement into a fluctuating bag of pus. Treatment.—Constitutional and hygienic measures are more likely to prove beneficial than any local treatment. Tonics, principally iron or the iodide of iron and quinine, with cod-liver oil, should be taken for a considerable period; the diet must be well regulated, and other means adopted for the improvement of the general health. At the same time, the iodide of lead ointment, and strapping the testicle, may have some locally curative influence of subordinate importance. Abscess in the Testicle, as the result of inflammation of this organ, occurs sometimes from syphilitic orchitis, but more commonly from scrofulous orchitis. The signs of this condition are in no way peculiar, and the treatment must be conducted on ordinary principles. * London Hosp. Mus., E./. 85. Section of a testicle much enlarged; showing isolated tubercles in the body of the gland. Some of them have coalesced into little masses. The epididymis is full of caseous tubercular deposit, some of which is puriform. t Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2383. Scrofulous testis, with fungoid protrusion; seen also in section.