376 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. serve to diminisli the irritability of those parts, and facilitate tlio performance of the operation; but sucking a little ice generally produces sufficient anassthesia. For removing laryngeal growths I generally employ my cutting-forceps, which are bent upon the shank at a right angle. These instruments are made in two ways, one to open transversely, and the other to open in an antero-posterior direc- tion. By means of these forceps a growth, situated in any part of the larynx, can be removed with little trouble. I also sometimes employ my tube-forceps, which are closed by pressing on a key in the upper part of the instrument, and are extremely convenient—especially for begin- ners. (Fig. 717.) Gauterization is not often resorted to, owing to the difficulty of limiting the action of the caustic. The best caustic is the "London paste," which should be applied with a wooden or glass rod, suitably curved. Fused nitrate of silver, prepared in the manner described, may be used for this purpose. The galvano-cautery, first employed by Mitteldoi-pf, has yielded satisfactory results in the hands of Volto- lini and others. Thyrotomy—or division of the thyroid cartilage ; Laryngotomy— supra-thjroid in the thyro-hyoid membrane, or i?i/rct-thyroid in the crico- thyroid membrane.—These operations, which are e-u^ra-laryngeal, may be resorted to for the removal of growths, when they threaten the life of the patient and when it is impossible to operate successfully througli the mouth. The peculiar circumstances under which one or the other of these procedures will be appropriate will presently be discussed, but here it may be remarked that a combined method of operative treatment may sometimes be found necessary; laryngotomy or tracheo- tomy, to relieve the urgent dyspnoea; the growth being subsequently removed through the mouth. Operation of Thyrotomy.—As a precaution against suffocation during the operation of thyrotomy, I formerly recommended a preliminary operation of tracheotomy; but later experience has convinced me that this measure may generally be dispensed with. Should this opera- tion be necessary on account of dyspnoea, the Surgeon should intro- duce Semen's tampon-cannula (a modification of Trendelenberg's), and thereby prevent the flow of blood into the trachea during the subse- quent procedure. The operation is performed as follows :—An incision is made through the skin exactly in the median line, over the thyroid cartilage, from the notch above, down to the upper border of the cricoid cartilage ; the thyroid cartilage is then cautiously divided with a stout scalpel, or, if it be in an ossified condition, a small semi- circular saw must be used. Care should be taken to avoid penetrating the larynx until the whole of the cartilage is divided, as the entry of air provokes coughing and laryngeal spasm. The alse are now to be drawn widely apart by means of two retractors, held by an assistant on each side. To make more room, if necessary, in the laryngeal cavity, transverse incisions may be made in the crico-thyroid membrane below, or in the thyro-hyoid membrane above, or in both, and on one or both sides. In some cases the cricoid cartilage has been divided, but enlargement in this direction seldom gives additional facilities. The intra-laryngeal growth being exposed, by the aid of a strong, reflected light, the polypus or excrescence should be seized with a tine forceps and snipped off by means of small curved scissors, or it may