DISEASES OP PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. 3G9 , The patient lying on his back, the Surgeon, standing on the •io-ht side makes a crucial incision, each line of which is about one •nch and a half in length, on the left side of the mesial line of the \domen ; two fingers' breadth to the inner side of the costal cartilages, ^ and about one-third nearer to the ensiform cartilage than to the umbilicus—having previously satisfied himself by percussion and pal- uation that the liver is not in his way. The dissection is carried through ; the abdominal wall, and the peritoneum opened. Then, feeling with ' his left index-finger for the left border of the liver, and following this . upwards, the stomach is reached. The organ is seized with forceps [ drawn forwards, and its structure recognized. The anterior wall of the viscus is th6n fixed to the edges of the integumental aperture, by three or four points of suture, and an opening afterwards made into it about midway between its two extremities and a little above the lower margin. When, in the course of a few days, union of the waU of the stomach to the parietal peritoneum has become securely established, nutritive injections should be administered through a silver tube passed into the artificial aperture, which is thus kept patent. The value of this operation has yet to be decided by the results of further experience. . • n -vi. ^ Paralysis or the CEsophagus.—This affection occasions mability ot swallowing ; but it is unattended with spasm or pain, and the introduc- tion of a bougie meets with no obstruction. It sometimes depends on centric disease, either of the brain or spinal cord, and cure in such instances will probably be impossible. Paralysis of the oesophagus is also met with in the aged and debilitated, either as the result of disease of the peripheral nerves of the part, or as a myopathic lesion. Loss of power of the oesophagus, unaccompanied by any_ marked evidence of general debility, is also occasionally encountered in adults and young people. An idiopathic and purely local weakness or partial atrophy of the muscular apparatus of the gullet appears to exist in these cases. Treatment consists in the administration of nourishment by the stomach-pump or enemata. Strychnia and other nervine tonics might perhaps be tried with advantage. Electricity will often be found of the greatest value, especially in those instances where the disease is dissociated from any centric nerve-lesion. The interrupted (faradic) current may be applied by means of the oesophageal electrode, in the same way as galvanism is recommended for the treatment of spasm. Dilatation and Sacculation.—These conditions of the oesophagus are of rare occurrence. Instances of the former have been recorded by Sir Charles Bell, Rokitansky, Mondiere, Barker, and others. A re- markable specimen of sacculation is preserved in the Museum of University College. The mucous membrane protrudes through the fasciculi of the muscular coat, forming very distinct pouches. The syvvptom of either structural condition is marked dysphagia of a mechanical kind—the food, more especially, lodging in the pouches of a sacculated oesophagus. The ingesta seem to stuff the chest, with- out reaching the stomach, and a portion is soon vomited, or rather ejected from the oesophagus. Treatment can seldom be curative. In the worst cases, feeding with the oesophageal tube or per rectum is often the only resource. Fre- quently, however, in the least pronounced class of cases, considerable VOL. II. 2 B