DISEASES OP THE FRONTAL SINUSES. 28^ rubber, and having the colour of skin peculiar to the face of the individual. An artificial organ somewhat improves the sense of smell, thus becoming useful as well as ornamental. But the comparative merits of plastic and mechanical skill should always be well considered, with regard to each particular case; without anticipating the failure of operation pictured by Hudibras—respecting the Italian method— " That wlien the time of Noch was out, Off dropped the sympathetic snout." The Frontal Sinuses are subject to certain diseases not peculiar to these osseous cavities, but originating in them as the seat of disease. Abscess forms occasionally, within the frontal sinuses, accompanied with great pain, of a dull, heavy, aching character ; and subsequently expansion of the cavity, followed possibly by caries, and symptoms of inflammation extending to the membranes of the brain. Warm fomen- tations and other palliative measures may be employed in the first instance; but evacuation of the matter formed will probably become advisable. This would be done by trephining the anterior wall of the sinus, using a small trephine. Ghronic Abscess or Mucocele may result, when the communication between the frontal sinus and the anterior ethmoidal cells is closed up, and muco-purulent matter accumulates in the sinus. A tumour or swelling is at length presented, between the root of the nose outwards, attended with displacement of the eyeball, and frontal headache. This swelling may be mistaken for a solid tumour or morbid growth within the sinus; but at a later stage, the expanded wall of the sinus becomes thinned or points, when the fluid character of its contents can be felt with the finger; previous to which, an exploratory puncture will show the nature of the swelling. The nmcus having been discharged, the opening may be enlarged sufii- ciently to ascertain the seat of obstruction into the nasal fossa; a communication should be re-established by passing a probe or trocar downwards and backwards through the anterior ethmoidal cells, taking care to maintain the passage for some days, while the frontal sinus is brought into a healthy state by dilute astringent injections. The cavity should be closed as soon as possible, lest a fistulous opening remain, forming, with the nasal passage, an aerial fistula, which would be difficult to heal. A cyst—hydatid or fatty—is sometimes produced in the frontal sinus; giving rise to a similar tumour, and requiring similar treatment, by puncture and injection, without the occasion for an opening into the nose. Exostosis—the ivory variety—presents a hard, bony tumour, in the situation of the superciliary eminence, or at the inner angle of the orbit; thus resembling enlargement of the frontal sinus, by chronic abscess, or perhaps intra-cystic formation. But the continued hardness, and very slow growth of exostosis, are characteristic of this tumour; unaccompanied also by any previous symptoms of inflammation. The uncertainty of diagnosis will relate to the seat of origin, in regard to any such bony outgrowth; whether it may be attached to the outer plate of the frontal sinus, or that it may have proceeded from the inner or deeper plate, having therefore relation to the brain, and forming an outgrowth within the sinus. In the former case only—that of superficial exostosis—the tumour admits of removal; yet with considerable diflaculty, owing to the broad attach- ment, and extreme density of the bony outgrowth. Polypus—whether