830 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Herma Testis, or protrusion of the testicle, is apt to follow the bursting of an abscess. The appearances have been already noticed It presents, usually, a red, granular, fungous mass (Fig 969) but varymg according to the state of inflammation, sloughing, or granula- tion. The mass becomes expanded over, and is constricted by, the margin of the aperture in the conjoined tunica albu- ginea, tunica vaginahs, and indurated scrotal integu- ment. (Fig. 960.) Treatment. — According to the size of the protrusion, the attempt may be made to repress it, or it will be ne- cessary to remove the mass. When of small size, a cure may often be effected by pressure; some lint or char- pie spread with the ointment of red oxide of mercury is laid upon the protrusion, and well strapped down with strips of plaster. Or, the integument may be detached on either side of the pro- trusion, the edges pared, and brought over it in front, and retained by suture ; pressure being thus applied, as sug- gested by Mr. Syme. An- other plan, devised by Dr. Pagan, of Glasgow, consists in dissecting down to the tunica albuginea, and then incising the margin of the aperture in that tunic, like the ring in strangulated hernia. After this, the treatment is said to be much more successful. When either of these plans has failed, or the protrusion is of larger size, it should be removed by shaving it off with a bistoury. During the process of granulation, the tendency to exuberance and reprotrusion should be repressed by dressing with the mercurial oint- ment, and strapping. If nearly the whole organ be protruded, or the portion left by excision be found diseased, it will be better to have recourse to castra- tion. The remnant portion of testicle would be of no functional use, and would slough away, prolonging the cure. Tumours.—The testicle, like other organs, is liable to be the seat of various morbid growths, forming Tumours ;' all of which are distinct in their nature from Chronic Enlargement or Sarcocele, as resulting from any kind of morbid deposit,—Syphilitic, Scrofulous, or Tuberculous. Tumours of the Testicle, thus pathologically distinguished, may be Cystic ; occasionally. Cartilaginous and Fibrous ; or Cancer,—Eucepha- loid and Scirrhus. These various testicular Tumours are sometimes * Royal Free Hospital. (Author.)