2GG SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. blood ; disease of the heart or liver opposing the return of venous 1\TJ: '^''f^'''^ oi the blood in scLy. purpura, anJ other diseases, producing ^;aWh^morrha-e. Violent exercises are liable to cause an attack,—as straining efforts Fig 656 ^^^f weights, rowing, or running ; the act of vomit- ing or defecation ; violent sneezing or coughing. The influence of predisposing causes is witnessed in the ten- dency to_ epistaxis among those who lead a sedentary life, and indulge in the luxuries of the table, or bend the head and overwork the brain in some intellectual occu- pation. Cold bathing, sudden changes of temperature or climate, altitude of locality, with therefore a rarified atmosphere, are the chief external conditions which induce bleeding from the nose. Sometimes, such a dis- charge is simply vicarious of suppressed menstruation, or of an hasmorrhoidal flux, or of defective perspiration m diseases of the skin; or it may occur as a critical hemorrhage in the course of various fevers. In young persons, epistaxis is rarely a formidable hajmorrhage, though I have seen such severe recurring bleeding from fracture of the nasal bones—a broken nose, in a powerful policeman—as well-nigh proved fatal. In elderly and enfeebled persons, ej^istaxis is often perilous. Treatment.—Slight epistaxis, in young and healthy subjects, may be arrested, when necessary, by sluicing the nose and forehead with cold water, or by cold applied to the nape of the neck ; and any tendency to its return prevented by purgatives and emmenagogues. Syringing the nasal fossiB with cold water or an alum solution, or the use of the syphon-douche might, otherwise, be had recourse to. In plethoric persons, to whom epistaxis often acts as a safety-valve, the bleeding should not be indiscriminately checked. Cold, rest, and dry- cupping from the back of the neck sometimes, however, become requisite, these measures being reinforced by saline purgatives. Pas- sive hismorrhage is best controlled by styptics, administered internally and applied within the nostrils. Gallic acid, in five or ten grain doses, is perhaps the most efiicient; and the anterior nares may be plugged with a compress of lint or sponge soaked in a solution of alum, perchloride of iron, or tannin. Any concurrent disease, as the cause of hemorrhage, must of course be treated. A scorbutic condition often yields to the administration of oil of turpentine. Severe or persistent epistaxis, or as arising from injury, can some- times be arrested by elevating the arm to a vertical position on tlie side corresponding to the hosmorrhage ; or both arms when the bleed- ing is from both nostrils. Malgaigne, in his work on Fractures, mentions a remarkable case of copious epistaxis produced by fracture of the nose in the person of a young man who had been thrown down with his face to the ground. Cold lotions having failed to check the haemorrhage, he was directed to raise his arm perpendicularly ; it ceased immediately, and did not recur. But severe or persistent epistaxis will generally require the simple operative procedure of plugging the nai'es, posterior and anterior, care being taken to asccr-