744 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ceptible enlargement by rectal exploration, the urine flows when the mstrument has traversed not more than the ordinary distance—about SIX to eight inches-while the handle has not been more than usually depressed there will assuredly be no prostatic enlargement. But if the catheter has passed easily nine or ten inches and still no urine flows while, following its course, the handle has become more than usually depressed, there will assuredly be enlargement of the prostate. Then thej^rostahc catheter should be used ; a longer instrument by from two to four inches, and having a much larger curve. (Fig. 911.) The forms of curve preferred by Sir William Fergusson and by Sir H. Thompson respectively, are shown to the right. The increased length and thJ altered direction of the prostatic canal can be estimated by means of this instrument; the one fact, by observing the length of shaft intro- duced ; the other, by its position when the point enters the bladder. Any deflection of the instrument, to the right or to the left, when allowed to take its own inclination, will further indicate a greater degree of enlargement on the side towards which the handle inclines. Examination of the prostate, thus far, may be conducted advan- tageously, by using the finger in the rectum and the catheter in the bladder at the same time; the concerted movements of the two instru- ments indicating, moreover, the thickness of the prostate, as well as the length and course of the prostatic urethra. Exploration of the urethro-vesical orifice and of the vesical portion of the prostate, with the fossa or receptacle behind it, can be severally effected by means of a sound having a very short curve or only a buak. On passing this instrument into the bladder, the beak is then turned down, and the post-prostatic receptacle sounded as to its depth, and searched for stone,—a not uncommon concomitant of enlarged pro- state; in withdrawing the beak forwards, the posterior limit of the prostatic enlargement is ascertained,—a point not often ascertainable by rectal exploration ; then the state of the middle lobe is determined, more clearly than by the upward curve in entering the bladder; finally, the condition of the vesical orifice, by turning the beak round to the right and to the left. Diagnosis.—Enlargement of the prostate must be distinguished from: (1) stricture of the urethra; (2) stone in the bladder; (3) tumour of the bladder; (4) simple atony of the bladder; (6) paralysis. In Stricture, the diminished force of the stream of urine is the same, or even less; but the volume is also diminished, even to that of the smallest stream short of retention ; and, moreover, it becomes variously broken, twisted, or dribbling. Catheterism affords, however, the chief points of distinction; obstruction is encountered always before the instrument reaches the prostatic urethra, and generally before six inches of the instrument have disappeared. In enlarged prostate, seven, eight, or nine inches of the instrument will have dis- appeared without encountering obstruction; and not necessarily then, if the instrument be of suflScient length to enter the bladder. But the handle must be depressed between the patient's legs to a much greater degree than in passing stricture. The difference of age in the two cases will corroborate the diagnosis; stricture almost invariably appearing before middle life ; prostatic enlargement not until after that period. Sione in the bladder may be distinguished from enlargement of the