SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 40 li too free a luxation be made, you will displace the periosteum too extensively, and the portion of bone thus uncovered will subsequently exfoliate. In excising the bone, always use a saw, a chain or a finger saw being most convenient, and make the section just above the tro- chanter mmor ; never through the neck, leaving the trochanter major, which would prevent a free discharge of purulent matter from the wound. The muscular attachments of the trochanter are preserved in elevating the periosteum. In some cases, as when the involucrum is so firm that the head of the bone cannot be lifted from its bed, luxation cannot easily be effected ; then saw the bone in situ, and extract the portion with forceps or the elevator. If, after making the section, the living bone has not been reached, the periosteum must be further de- tached, by luxating the femur a little more, and slipping the bone through it, until living bone is reached—whether this requires one, two, three, or five inches of bone to be removed. If the periosteal in- volucrum possesses sufficient vitality, it may remain; but if it appears like carious bone, it must be removed. Next, examine the acetabulum; and, if diseased, all the dead bone must be carefully removed. If the acetabular cavity be perforated, the greatest care should be taken lest the internal layer of periosteum be injured. The internal periosteum will be found peeled off, or lifted away, forming a kind of cavity behind the acetabulum ; and an exceedingly important point is to chip off all the edges around the perforation down to the point where the internal periosteum is reflected from the sound bone (!). This is one of the most delicate steps in the operation ; to be able to remove all dead bone from the wall formed by the internal periosteum without injuring or wounding it (!). In some cases, when the operation is completed, there will be nothing intervening between the finger of the operator and the rectum of the patient, except this internal layer of periosteum. Lastly, thoroughly clean the original sinuses, carefully removing any bits of carious bone which may have lodged in their course during the progress of the disease, as well as the false membrane which lines them. Then, wash out the wound, fill it full of Peruvian balsam, and stuff it with oakum; never with cotton or lint, for they will not permit a free discharge from the bottom." In following Professor Sayre's description of this sub-periosteal excision, it will be noted that he never contemplates anything approach- ing to primary union of the wound—such as often takes place to some extent after ordinary excision—without any attempt to save the peri- osteum. The periods of recovery, and the peril to the life of the patient, will be proportionately different after either mode of operation. And I have taken the liberty of interposing a sign of exclamation (!) here and there, where the points urged are simply impracticable, however much they may seem to be accomplished by the directions given. EesuUs.—(1.) In relation to life or mortality. In 111 cases, col- lected by Dr. Hodges, of unrecorded conditions of operation, 56 recovered, 63 died from the combined effects of the operation and the previous disease; and in the remaining 2 cases, amputation was resorted to. Thus about 1 in 2 died—a very high mortality. But Mr. Hancock presents the following very interesting results as to the mortality with reference to certain guiding conditions of disease for operation :—The acetabulum, in a healthy state, gave a mortality of 6