DISEASES OP THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. 851 The nervous system, indeed, is not seldom deeply impaired by the con- fiuuance of the local distress, and the attendant marital disappointment. I'jxamination should be conducted under ansesthesia, and this must be 1 o the surgical degree, in order to subdue the rej3.ex irritability. Then, s imetimes, no local condition is found, beyond smallness of the vulva. Often the hymen, even after months of married life, is unbroken. At other times remains of the hymen are seen, as caruncles or an iraper- tect ring, red, inflamed, irritable. Generally distension is not difliculfc (luring aneesthesia; but sometimes the vulvar ring is rigid. There are three principal methods of treatment. The first is forcible stretching, cither by Barnes' speculum, or by the thumbs or fingers back to back, 'riie second is to nick the perineum at the fourchette or the vulva with a knife, or to divide the sphincter vaginte by subcutaneous incision. The third, frequently the most effectual, is to dissect off in a ring the remains of the hymen. This removes the main source of .peripheral iri-itation. After any method, it is useful to abstain for a while from sexual relations, and to wear for some hours daily a vaginal (idilator. This acts by wearing out the sphincteric irritability, by aaccustoming the parts to contact of a foreign body, and by giving rrest. In minor cases, this plan is often sufficient by itself. The tidyspareunia disappears, and pregnancy has often resulted. Constitu- ttional treatment, calculated to improve the general health and to sstrengthen the nervous system, should go on pcuri passu with the ssurgical treatment. Rectal and Vaginal PiSTULa;.—Fistulous openings may exist in ithe Female Organs; between the rectum and vagina,—Becto-Vaginal IFistula; or between the bladder and vagina,— Vesico-Vaginal Fistula. IThese Fistulse, and their modifications, have already been described, as tthus designated, in previous parts of this work. Prolapsus VAGiNiE.—A falling down of the vagina is liable to ooccur; either in its anterior wall, with protrusion of the bladder, con- sstituting Gystocele; or in its posterior wall, forming Bectocele. These cconditions present the characteristic appearance of the rugous walls of tthe vagina, and are thus distinguished from prolapsus of the uterus, iin which the os uteri descends, as the most prominent part of the pprotrusion. The sense of bearing down, and constant vaginal dis- ccharge—with the vesical irritability in cystocele^—usually compel the ppatient to seek relief. Treatment may be palliative or curative. The former consists in rretuming the protrusion, and supporting it by the introduction of a pproperly shaped pessary. Curative treatment consists in having re- ccourse to a plastic operation; by paring off a strip of mucous mem- bbrane from below the meatus on one side round to the same point on Hhe other side, and uniting the raw surfaces by suture. The width and Idength of the strip should vary according to the degree of prolapsus; tlhe object being to sufficiently narrow the canal for the permanent sup- pport of the protrusion. As after other plastic procedures relating to tthese parts, the bowels should be confined by opium, and scrupulous ^attention paid to cleanliness; a catheter communicating with an iindia-rubber tube is retained in the bladder to carry off the urine. Tumours.—The vagina may be the seat of tumours, springing from itits walls. Mucous or fibrous polypi, cystic tumours, and vascular growths are here found. Their relations must be carefully made out