361 PHAKTNGOTOMY, ETC—USE OP THE STOMACH-PUMP. All other means havmg iaileA, pharyngotomy or msoplmgotomy must 1.P resorted to for the extraction of the impacted substance. Asnhvxia may be so urgent that it will be absolutely necessary to . Tjerform tracheotomy, before attempting to remove the foreign body ■ torn the oesophagus. Generally, however, the attempt may be made nt once- and thus I succeeded instantly m pushing a ump of gristly ' steak into the stomach of an elderly lady, who lay back on a sofa .rasnino- for breath, and was ah-eady black m the face. ' PhIeyngotomt and (Bsophagotomt.—These operations consist m onenino- the gullet at one or other part; either for the removal of an impacted foreign body, or occasionally, in stricture, for the purpose of conveving food into the stomach. • t • " The left side of the neck is usually selected; the oesophagus, inclining - rather to this side, is there more accessible. An incision is made ot - sufficient length along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid , muscle, betwixt it and the trachea. The skin, platysma, and cervical fascia having been divided, the dissection is carried directly backwards avoiding the carotid sheath and larynx or trachea. The omo-hyoid muscle may be divided, but the thyroid arteries should, if possible, be avoided in this deep dissection. Having reached the pharynx or oesophagus, a bougie, sound or catheter, had better be passed through the mouth into the cavity, and made to project as a guide on which to cut the opening into the gullet. The aperture may then be enlarged, either by dilatation with forceps, or by further incision with a blunt- pointed bistoury, to an extent sufficient for the extraction of the foreign substance, or for the introduction of a feeding-tube. Use of the Stomach-Pump.—This apparatus is more often used for evacuating the stomaeh in cases of poisoning, than for the admin- istration of liquid nutriment. A gag, with a hole in it, having been placed between the jaws of the patient's mouth, for the easy passage of a flexible tube without compression by the teeth, the tube is intro- duced through the gag, and passed cautiously down the hack of the pharynx, thus avoiding the rima glottidis, and thence down the oesophagus into the stomach. For children, an elastic catheter of large size may be used. Having then attached the tube to the nozzle of the pump, or the catheter being connected by a piece of india-rubber tubing, the stomach is injected moderately full with warm water by working the pump, a pint or two being thrown in; then, reversing the action of the instrument, the water or admixture with the contents of the stomach is pumped up again. If the aperture in the tube become stopped up with undigested food, the action of the pump should be reversed sharply, to clear the passage ; or, this failing, the tube must be withdrawn, washed out, and repassed into the stomach. Care must be observed not to withdraw the whole quantity of water in- jected, lest the mucous membrane of the stomach be sucked up into the apertures of .the tube, as would happen if the stomach were empty. Water should be thrown in and pumped out, until it returns colourless and the stomach is thus completely washed out. Emetics are generally preferable to this mechanical mode of emptying the stomach, when- ever vomiting can be excited, assisted by freely swallowing diluents. For the administration of liquid food, the stomach-pump may be employed in like manner, only that the fluid is simply injected and not withdrawn.