STRANGULATED HERNIA. 495 the stricture. The escape of flatus and feces will at once declare the nature of the accident; although of course, the same discharge occurs when the gut yields by laceration from handling it in a soft and gangrenous state. The treatment of wounded intestine is simple. A puncture may be secured by seizing the point with forceps, and casting a fine silk liga- ture around it, the ends of which should be clipped off close. An incision may be closed by the glover's stitch. In either case, the bowel is then to be returned just inside the mouth of the sac. The case proceeds the same as in a wound of the abdominal parietes involv- ing the intestine ; and the result is not unfrequently successful, or the bowel giving way, an artificial anus forms. Woimd of an artery.—In dividing the stricture, an artery may be wounded, either as a sheer accident, owing to some anomalous course of the vessel, or from dividing the stricture in a wrong direction. The accident is more liable to happen to the deep epigastric or the obturator arteries, in the operations for inguinal and femoral herniEe. Treatment consists in at once cutting down upon and securing the bleeding vessel; an injunction easier given than carried out. As a pi-ecaution against such an accident under any uncertain cii'cumstances, I am accustomed to elevate the handle of the hernia-knife, so as to divide or notch the stricture somewhat more externally than internally —towards any unusual relation of an arterial vessel; observing also to divide only to such a limited extent as may be requisite to return the hernial protrusion, when disengaged, by gentle manipulation. Inflammation and sujjpuration of the sac has been known to follow herniotomy, in which the sac is opened; a consequence of this opera- tion to which Mr. Key, particularly, has drawn attention. It is more liable to happen after the operation for scrotal hernia, the sac being of large size. In a few days the scrotum becomes distended and tender; and as these symptoms are accompanied with constipation and sick- ness, the Surgeon might suppose that the hernial protrusion had returned. He is soon undeceived by the escape of some purulent matter, which must then be allowed to have a free discharge, favoured by poulticing. Sloiujhing of the sac seldom occurs; it usually terminates fatally, occasionally in recovery. I have only seen this complication once,—in an old inguinal hernia, with a thick sac, and of large size; the wound reopened, the sac sloughed, and the patient died. (&.) Operation without opening the sac.—This modification of the operation of strangulated hernia is performed in precisely the same manner, short of opening the sac. The circumstances under which this limited operation would be advisable have been already enume- rated. The stricture is divided externally, by means of a probe-pointed bistoury; and the contents of the sac reduced by compression, followed, in a recent hernia, by the sac itself. In fact, the taxis is reapplied to the sac, now that the stricture is divided. That failing, there is no alternative but to open the sac, and complete the operation in the usual manner. And it is safer to do so, if there be any doubt as to the state of the visceral contents, or if much compression be requisite. Hither modification of the operation (a or b) for strano-ulated hernia is concluded, by bringing the line of incision in the integument together by two or three points of suture and strips of plaster; over