757 TREATMENT OF GONORRHOSA. Inflammatory stage—acute and chronic.—From tlie commencemenfc of a gonorrhoeal purulent discharge, reducing measures, followed bj suppressive injections, may be employed,—according to the degree of urethral inflammation. When acute,—with an abundant, thick, opaque yellow, or creamy discharge, and scalding in passing urine,—the appro- priate treatment consists in gentle saline, alkaline, aperient medicine, au uustimulating diet, abstinence from wine, beer, or spirits, with rest and recumbency. As a topical application, immersion of the penis in very hot watex', for a few minutes, is said to afford great relief. When the inflammation has passed into the chronic stage,—with a diminished, thinner, and clearer discharge, and the absence of scalding in micturi- tion,—the previously reducing measures should be discontinued, and succeeded by acid tonics; or perhaps copaiba or cubebs, and astringent urethral injections, may be used. In (fleet—the discharge having now become scanty, thin, clear, and colourless, as a watery oozing from the urethra, and lasting for a considerable period—the same suppressive measures will also be appropriate. By the foregoing plan of treatment, I have almost invariably pre- scribed with success, in some thousands of cases. Commencing with an aperient and alkaline mixture—containing sulphate of magnesia, in about drachm doses, with a little senna, and the sesquicarbonates of soda and ammonia, in doses sufiicient to nearly neutralize the urine— in three weeks or more the urethral inflammation will have safely sub- sided ; the patient having abstained from any indulgence in wine or other alcoholic beverage, and stimulating food, especially peppers and condiments. The discharge has now undergone the characteristic change in quantity and appearance to that of the chronic stage; and the scalding pain on micturition has also ceased, leaving only a slight smarting or soreness in passing urine. Then, the discharge may be safely suppressed, gradually, by using an injection twice a day; con- sisting of about 5ij. of the liquor plumbi diacetatis to ^ij. of distilled water. Other injections, if not preferable, may be preferred. Thus, the subnitrate of bismuth in mucilage, grs. x. to jj- oi water, with a little morphia or belladonna; nitrate of silver, grs. i.—ij. to 5j- ; chloride of zinc, grs. i.—iv. to Jiv. ; sulphate of zinc, gr. i., gradually increased to grs. iv., to 5j- ; sulphate of zinc and acetate of lead ana grs. xxx. to ^vj., an injection long in use at the old Lock Hospital ; or acetate of zinc, grs. xii. to ^iv. of water, is the favourite injection of Sigmund, Milton, and Bumstead. In obstinate gleet, the bichloride of mercury may prove successful; gr. | to ^j- of water. Before using any in- jection, the patient had better pass his urine, in order to clear the urethra of gonorrhoeal matter, vyhich would prevent contact -with the mucous membrane; and also to avoid the necessity of emptying the bladder again for some time, care being taken to drain away any urine from the urethral canal. These two latter precautions have regard to any decomposition of the injected solution by the action of the urine. Owing to such change, a lead injection becomes opaque and curdled when discharged; and nitrate of silver acquires a milky-white opacity ; both solutions having been made with distilled water. An injection is thrown up the urethra by means of a small glass syringe; and so that it shall be applied only to the affected portion of the urethral tract, the finger is placed under the canal, just in front of the scrotum. For deeper injection, as mostly in gleet, various forms of cathctcr-syringa