SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 202 ^ Granular Conjunctiva is a serious consequence of purulent ophtbal- mia m any form, or of a long-continued course of irritant applications. A thickened and rough state of the conjunctiva is thus produced ; and particularly of the palpebral conjunctiva, which, when examined, appears villous, and resembles the surface of a granulating nicer. The villous projections are in some instances only the follicles and papillae of the conjunctiva, enlarged by inflammatory deposit; and acquiring con- siderable solidity and hardness, they irritate the ocular conjunctiva, especially its upper half, occasioning lachrymation and blinking of the lids. In another and more serious class of cases these are neoplastic formations, and are undoubtedly infectious. The disease is well known as Army, Egyptian, or Contagious Ophthalmia, and results from over- crowding. The early symptoms are very slight; but, by constant attrition, an opaque and vascular state of the cornea is presented, having an almost fleshy aspect—-f annus. Granular conjunctiva, conse- quent on purulent ophthalmia, is common among the more destitute Irish population. Treatment.—Remedial measures have for their object the removal of the granular state of the conjunctiva. The palpebral conjunctiva has been subjected to the rajDid action of escharotics, as by the free application of nitrate of silver; or removed, by paring it with a fine knife or scissors. The best applications are the acetate of lead in fine powder, dusted over the everted lid, which acts probably as an astrin- gent ; or the undiluted liquor potasste, dabbed on the everted lid, the latter probably acting by chemically saponifying and dissolving the granular-hypertrophied tissue. Repeated at intervals of a few days, for six or seven weeks, the granulations will probably disap^^ear, and the transparency of the cornea be considerably restored. Counter- irritation, by means of small blisters on the temple, or the tincture of iodine painted over the skin of the lids, seems to aid this result. In army ophthalmia the lids of all the men should be examined twice a week, and where any sago grain-like elevations ai-e seen, the patient should at once be segregated from his comrades, the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and removal to a pure atmosphere, if possible, effected. In obstinate and otherwise intractable cases, it has been pro- posed to resort to inoculation, for the reproduction of purulent ophthal- mia—by applying to the conjunctiva the purulent secretion from the eye of a patient suffering under the acute form of that disease. This desperate remedy has sometimes produced a perforating ulcer of the cornea; but sometimes considerable clearing of an opaque cornea, without any ulceration. It seems reasonable, therefore, to reserve this resource to the last. It has been recently suggested that the patient should be made to wear for a time a glass shield, perforated in the centre, which should be introduced beneath the lids, so that the cornea is not exposed to the friction of the hypertrophied papillae. The general treatment is always most important; tonics and a nutritious diet have a constitutionally curative influence, without which any local measures are powerless. (2.) Certain Growths of the conjunctiva require notice.—Ptery- gium is a reddish, fleshy, fibrous growth of the conjunctiva, of a trian- gular shape; extending, base inwards, from the semilunar fold at the inner canthus to the cornea, or beyond its margin. It is met with mostly in persons who have lived in hot climates, and exposure to dust may be an exciting cause.