445 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. rases and many will be diTbious, tlie diagnosis should be determined 1 f PXDlorinff puncture and examination of the exuded cyst-contcnts, Kre S or ing^o any curative operation. _ Hydatid _ cysts are d^- ?t'nisi ed by the presence of ecchinococci,-a species of parasite S s faUy described in my " Principles of Surgery." TJlTuJr.--AisorpUon of the contents of a cyst can sometimes be Pifacted by the mere application of stimulating embrocations. _ Sir B Codie recommends, as having proved successful, a lotion consisting of Lai parts of camphorated spirit and weak spirit, with about one- IS oThquor plumbi. This must be applied on a piece of flannel once folded, ovei the tumour, and renewed six or eight tmies m the day and night until the skin becomes inflamed ; then desisting for two or three days, and again using it. Three or four weeks or some months Inse before a cure is thus effected. On the same prmcip e, iodine pa?Bt or bUstering may be curative. P^..c^«n.^, the cyst followed by r ssure, may obfiterate the cavity by adhesive inflammation; or the Fntroduction of a tent of lint will induce suppuration, and granulatioa from the bottom. Uxcision, by carefully dissectmg out the cyst, is not unfrequently the best or only method of treatment; or it may be neSary to^emove the gland, partially or wholly. Partial excision of the gland is apt to favour a recurrence of the cystic growth,_in the remaining portion of the organ; but its entire removal is occasionally succeeded by cystic disease, or perhaps a cancerous affection of the cicatrix. Hydatid cysts, when completely extirpated, are not apt to '^^^Te') Caucer.—The breast is peculiarly liable to be the seat of pri- mary cancer: scirrhus, very commonly; encephaloid, occasionally; colloid, rarely. „ . r.-,, , • 1.1 The disease appears either in the form of an infiltrating growth, or as a circumscribed or tuberous growth; or, it may be cystitorm, associated with a cyst or cysts. t p .1 Scirrhus.—The descriptions usually given m surgical works ot the pathology and diagnostic characters of Scirrhous Cancer are mainly taken from scirrhus of the breast, it being the most typical illustration of this species of Cancer. As such, the general pathology of Cancer may be advantageously referred to,_ in Part I.; while the more specially im- portant features only of the disease, as affecting the breast, will here be noticed. It may appear in the form of an intra-mammary tumour, or as infil- or upon its or as affect- skin. Com- circumscrihed trating the whole organ, surface or circumference; ing the nipple, or the mencing, commonly, as a tumour^ or lump, of small size, about that of a Spanish nut, hard and movable ; it occasions little or no pain, and may remain unnoticed. Increasing in size slowly, this nodule acquires a granular or finely lobulated character, and is more fixed. (Pig. 765.) Scirrhous infiltration of the gland commences as a diffused mass, and often of a * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2791 a. Scirrhous cancer in the male breast. (J. Hilton.) Fig. 7fi.5.*