SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. of tlie articular ends of bone, or to chronic synovitis, but not of a rheumatic character. The following case illustrates the condition of chronic rheumatic arthritis," in which I had recourse to the opera- tion ; and at the most advanced period of life that excision has hitherto been VJ-^otised,—fifty-three years of age. As being the only case of its kmd, i have transcribed it almost in extenso from my original com- m.unication, and which is recorded in the " Medico-Chirurgical Trans- actions," vol. Ivi. Sarah A , set. 53, residing at Dunstable, was admitted into the itoyal Free Hospital, July 25th, 1872. The history of her present state, as taken from the report of Dr. M'Kellar, senior resident medical officer, is briefly as follows : Twenty-three years ago she had an attack of rheumatism, which, having affected various joints, finally settled in the left knee, giving rise to severe pain and considerable swelling, which confined her to bed for ten weeks. Recurring arthritic disease lasted up to December, 1871, a protracted period of twenty years. Then she had a fall from some height downstairs, the leg on the affected side being twisted under her. ^ This injury immediately superinduced a worse attack in the knee-joint, and she remained in bed again for nine weeks. Treat- ment was adopted without affording relief, and at length she came to be under my care at the hospital. On admission the left knee-joint was much enlarged, measuring in circumference two inches more than its fellow; it had a globular form, but presenting some irregular nodosities, apparently of an osseous character around the articular ends of bone ; the joint had undergone partial dislocation backwards, the head of the tibia projecting behind the condyles of the femur, and false or fibrous anchylosis had taken place, giving some degree of immobility to the articulation, although this depended partly on a generally thickened state of the ligamentous and aponeurotic structures, and on the ossific deposit around the joint. Th ence the subluxation became more conspicuous when the patient, a very corpulent woman, attempted to stand on the limb, whereby the condyles of the femur abutted more prominently forward, showing that the anchylosis was loose and flexible. The patella was firmly anchylosed to the femur just above the outer condyle. Considering this useless state of the limb, excision of the joint seemed justifiable, with the view of inducing osseous union, and restor- ing a useful member. But the continued recurrence of severe attacks of pain, affecting the patient's general health, and the otherwise in- curable character of the disease, more immediately determined the propriety of operation ; while the prolonged duration of the joint- condition, the necessity for interference ere the patient's constitutional reserve-power might prove insufficient for recovery after operation, and the relatively advanced period of life, admitted of no further delay. Accordingly I had recourse to excision, notwithstanding the patient's age. After the operation no unfavourable symptom occurred of conse- quence. Primary union went on, except, as usual, at the angles of the wound, which gave issue to a moderate amount of oozing serous dis- charge ; and in three weeks the line of incision had become soundly united. In the course of a week or two tlie patient was allowed, by