518 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. hernia, it courses externally. Consequently, the knife should be turned away m the opposite direction, respectively. But, owinl Z tJie dragging pressure, inwards, of an old-standing oblique hernil it comes to simulate a direct hernia,-the artery, howeve\ still beX v^iternal. Hence, the safest direction for using the knife, and dividini the stricture m either form of inguinal hernia, is neither outwards nor mwards, but directly upwards. This should be observed as an absolute rule, and it is the injunction of Sir A. Cooper and Lawrence The remainder of the operation, as to the reduction of intestine, omentum or both, and the management of any adhesions, must be conducted according to the general rules already given. This operation is more or less extensive, in proportion to the com- pleteness or incompleteness of the hernia ; as scrotal, or a bubonocele In rare cases, the absence of a sac may perplex the operator • as in mguinal hernia of the ca3cum, sigmoid flexure of the colon, or urinary bladder. Reduction cannot perhaps be accomplished, when the stric- ture is_ divided, and the protrusion must be left in situ; but after- wards, it has sometimes disappeared spontaneously. In the/emaZe, the operation is precisely the same; merely substi- tuting the round ligament for the spermatic cord, in the inguinal canal; and the labium pudendi for the scrotum, in scrotal hernia. After the operation—whether in the male or female—a compress or pad of Knt is laid upon the inguinal canal, guarding well the internal ring, and retained in position by a spica-bandage (Fig. 802) ; the thigh being slightly flexed on the abdomen, to ease the bandage if necessary. Eventually, a proper and well-fitting truss must be worn. Successful results have followed the opera- tion for ordinary strangulated inguinal hernia, at a very early period of life, only a few weeks or months, as well as in advanced age. Law- rence narrates some such cases in his well- known work. Congenital Hernia requires a special adaptation of the foregoino- treatment, and principally with reference to the situation of the testicle,—as found in the scrotum, or above the external abdominal ring, and perhaps in the abdomen. When, as usual, the testicle has descended into the scrotum, the hernia may be reduced, and a truss applied; which should be worn for a considerable period, not less than two years, in the hope of inducing adhesion of the neck in the inguinal canal, and thus a permanent radical cure. Children, who are naturally restless, and in whom the hernial parts are small, may generally be fitted more conveniently and precisely, with an air-pad truss. When the testicle has not descended, the hernia must be returned as often as it comes down; but no truss should be worn, lest it close the vaginal sheath of peritoneum and so preclude the descent of the testis. The radical cure of congenital hernia, by operation, has proved successful. This seems to be "the only form of inguinal hernia in which Mr. Birkett considers an operation for radical cure to be applicable,