EXTBAVASATION OF URINE. 789 of strong-smelling or ammoniacal urine trickles out, and continiies to ooze for hours or days ; at tlie same time, tte peculiar appearance of the cellular texture—its pearly white colour and tension, or its opaque, sodden, and matted appearance—indicates the urinary infiltra- tion, or the supervention of sloughing. Tension having been thus relieved, a catheter can often be passed thi'ough the stricture into the bladder. This should be done at once, and the instrument retained in the usual manner by means of a waist-band and tapes. The catheter is left tmphigged, that the urine may drain away from the bladder, and as the instrnment occupies the calibre of the urethral canal, both these provisions will prevent any further extravasation. By this arrangement also, the ruptured urethra heals over the instrument. A large poultice or warm fomentation, or an antiseptic application, is placed around the scrotum and over the whole extent of the extrava- sation. The relief alforded by the incisions' is almost instantaneous, the patient often soon rallying from the previous state of nervous prostration and low fever. Stimulants, in the form of wine or brandy, with supporting nutriment, may now be given advantageously ; and bai'k, with chlorate of potash or ammonia, will prove very beneficial. Opium also is a most valuable agent; in the early period, to counteract the nervous excitement which not unfrequently accompanies prostra- tion, and afterwards, when excitement sometimes prevails, to sub- due it. The subsequent treatment of sloughing and granulation, after a long and trying process of exhaustion and repair, must be conducted on ordinary principles. Eupiure of the Bladder—a very rare consequence of retention—^is attended with extravasation of urine into the peritoneal cavity; or more commonly, below the line of the peritoneal reflection, into the pelvic cellular texture, whence it may secondarily get into the perito- neum by ulceration. The symptoms are sudden and acute abdominal pain, the patient usually feeling that something has given way ; and there is over- whelming collapse. Dulness on percussion over the region of the bladder is now substituted by general abdominal fluctuation and dis- tension, with total inability to strain out a drop of urine. The most acute peritonitis sets in. Maniacal delirium sometimes appears to suprsede the collapse, but death is inevitable in a period varying from thirty-six hours to four or five days. The indication of treatment would seem to be that an outlet should be given to the urine by puncture of the abdomen. But no such cases are recorded; and any treatment has hitherto had no effect in avertino- the inevitably fatal issue. ° _ Suppression of Urine differs entirely from retention, there being no urine secreted. The symptoms are those of urgemic blood-poisoning, owing to the retention of urea, and the other urinary constituents, in the blood. Com- mencing sometimes with a rigor, an aching pain in the lumbar region IS accompanied with a sense of exhaustion, succeeded by vomiting and feverishness of a typhoidal character, with urinous-smellina- perspira- tion; delirium, convulsions, and coma supervene, and the fatienb dies in the course of three or four days, or perhaps a week. The suppres- sion is sometimes transient; urine is resccreted, and the perilous