SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 58 Mr. Hancock, 38 were operations for disease; 25 for caries, 12 for necrosis with sequestra, and 1 necrosis. Of the 25, 1 died the day after operation of diarrhoea, 14 recovered at periods varying from six weeks to SIX months, 2 required a second operation but recovered, and 1 yinderwent secondary amputation; while of the remaining 7 the result is not given. Of the 12 cases, 3 recovered, 1 required a second opera- tion, 1 secondary amputation, and of 7 the result is not stated. Complete Excision.—Of 18 cases—the particulars of which are authenticated—in 14 the disease was scrofulous; and in 11 of these, this condition was entirely constitutional, in 1 it is said to have originated from a nail having been run into the lieel, and in 2 to have followed sprains. Of the 11 cases, 1 died of diphtheria, 7 recovered and with perfect use of the limb, while 3 suifered secondai-y amputa- tion—2 from recurrence of disease in the remaining tarsal bones, and 1 owing to erysipelas. Of the 3 cases induced by injury, 2 recovered completely, and the result of the third was doubtful. The general results of complete excision of the os calcis are thus re- presented in 34 authenticated cases : 1 died of diphtheria, 25 recovered completely, 4 underwent secondary amputation, and of 4 the results ai-o not given. In one case of excision of the os calcis, for caries, I removed also the cuboid bone and a small portion of the external cuneiform bone, both of which were involved in the disease. The patient recovered, and with a thoroughly sound and permaneutly serviceable foot; this result having been established by two years' duration,, when the weight of the body could still be supported by the foot, and the ankle-joint had free motion. He walked without the aid of a crutch or stick. The particulars of this case are reported in the Lancet of July 23, 1864. Compared with Suh'Astragaloid Amputation.—This operation has been little practised in England, but chiefly in France. It appears to have been performed altogether in 22 cases, as collected by Mr. Han- cock. The results of some are not stated. Of the whole number, 6 were ojierated on by Malgaigne, 1 by Maisonneuve, and 1 by Nelaton; in 9 collected by Vacquer, all terminated favourably; 1 by Dr. John Traile, of Arbroath, was successful; in 2 by Mr. Simon, one was suc- cessful, the other patient died of tetanus at the end of a fortnight; in 1 by Gamer, of Stoke-upon-Trent, the report was unfavourable, and 1 by Mr. Hancock was successful. The Cuboid, Scaphoid, and three Cuneiform Bones, may severally re- quire Excision; and preferably to removal by Chopart's amputation— in the articular line between the os calcis and astragalus behind and the cuboid and scaphoid in front—whereby the two latter tarsal bones, and three cuneiform bones, with the whole of the metatarsus and toes, are sacrificed. But the conditions of disease suitable for excision, rather than amputation, are not determinable by any precise rules ; and either operation must be selected according to the judgment of the Surgeon in each particular case. For the operations of excision, no particular directions can be laid down.; the lines of incision must be guided by the state of the integu- ment, and the facility for gaining access to the bone and its articu- lations. The Metatarsal Bones may also be excised, cither at their articular ends, or by removal of the whole bones. These pai-tial operations are