INJURIES OF PHARYNX AND OESOPHAGUS. 359 ficial respiration may be discontinued, or renewed only to aid the ^ffnrtq when feeble and imperfect. Treatment after Natural Bespiratwn.—The following directions are appended by Dr. Harley:-(1.) Give the patient some warm nutriment, jrwhich a small quantity of stimulant is added ; beef-tea, chicken Zun coffee or tea with one or two tablespoonfuls of brandy. (2.) Pnfc him into a well-aired bed, with hot bottles to his feet, and encourage Seep (3.) Let him be carefully watched during sleep m case of secondary apnoea; at the slightest symptom of which let gentle frictions and, if necessary, artificial respiration be agam had recourse to. Give volatile stimulants, such as the spiritas ammomae aromaticus, or sp. istheris nitrici. . . i , i -t-i,^ In the case of the drowned, the following might be said to be the four golden rules of treatment:-(!.) Empty the air-passages of all the water and frothy mucus they may chance to contain, by holdmg the legs and trunk higher than the head. (2.) Wipe the mouth and nostrils dry. (3.) Drav^ forward the tongue. (4.) Use artificial ^^^^Phartox and (EsomKdVS.—Wounds of the gullet occur most fre- quently, in connection with cut throat, as a comphcation of this form ^F^Ign Bodies.—Various substances are liable to become impacted in the pharynx or oesophagus ; some of which obstruct the passage by their size, as a lump of meat; others impinging, by their pointed shape, as a fish-bone, or owing to their irregular form as a set ot artificial teeth, which, in more than one case, has been dislodged into the gullet. The former substances stick either m the pharynx, about opposite the larynx, where the tube is narrowed at the commencement of the cBsophagus; or, low down towards the cardiac orifice ot the stomach. • -u -^u The symptoms are those of choking and suffocative cough, witn turgidity and blueness of the face; and the foreign body can probably be felt on introducing the finger into the pharynx. If unremoved, asphyxia may soon prove fatal. Low down in the oesophagus a similar obstruction produces equal difficulty in the passage of anything swal- ^lowed, though not any difficulty in the act of deglutition itself, and a sense of oppression with pain about the top of the sternum ; but the degree of actual suffocation will depend on the pressure of the im- pacted body on the trachea. The substance can be detected by the introduction of an oHed probang, carefully passed down to the seat of obstruction. Small pointed bodies commonly lodge in some foldot mucous mem- brane, behind the root of the tongue, between it and the epiglottis, or in the sides of the pharynx. Any substance so placed is felt by the individual, more particularly in the act of swallowing; and it may, perhaps, be seen, or felt with the finger. Complications and Consequences.—Rn^iviVe of the gullet has been produced, either by the violence of impaction, or in consequence of ulceration with the formation of abscess in the cellular texture around the tube. Fatal haemorrhage also has ensued. In a remarkable case, at the University College Hospital, many years since, a street-juggler passed, as usual, a long, round-ended sword down his throat; when he suddenly sprang into the air and fell in a state of collapse. In this