TREATMENt OP CATAEACT. 217 behind and uses his right hand for the right, and his left for the left eye. An assistant draws down the lower lid, and steadies it on the malar bone, without any pressure on the eyeball. The operator, with the point of his forefinger, raises the upper lid, locks it under the margin of the orbit, and by resting the point of that finger gently on. the upper surface of the globe, and his middle finger against its inner surface, he steadies the eyeball. Holding the knife lightly between the thumb and first two fingers of the other hand, and resting the hand ao-ainst the side of the face, he punctures the cornea at the centre of its outer margin, a sliort distance in front of its junction with the sclerotic, pushes the blade onward through the cornea, parallel with the iris, and transfixes the other side of the cornea, exactly opposite the external puncture. Owing to the triangular shape of the blade, this incision forms an even semicircular flap of the upper half of the cornea. In making this cut, the blade must constantly fill up the wound, by a steady, onward movement. If the knife be in the least withdrawn or rotated, a jet of aqueous humour takes place at that part of the wound which is no longer occupied by the blade, and the iris immediately prolapses over its edge—a perilous juncture. Having completed the incision, the eyelids should be dropped, and all pressure instantly ceased. After a few seconds, the Surgeon again raises the upper Ud, and introducing the curette under the corneal flap and through the pupil, he freely lacerates the capsule of the lens, so that the rents shall extend quite across the area of the pupil. Lastly, very gentle pressure is made on the under and upper part of the globe, alter- nately, whereby the lens turns slowly on its axis, and presents its upper edge at the pupil; coming forward to the cornea, the edge is guided upwards, and protruding, the lens escapes through the wound. During this transition of the lens forward, pressure on the globe should be gradually relaxed, lest the escape of the lens be followed by a gush of vitreous humour. The operation is concluded ; but, after a short pause, the eye should be inspected to see that the iris is not prolapsed and that the cornea is adjusted. Complications.—Prolapsus of the iris during the corneal incision may be rectified by slight pressure over it in completing the incision ; or, division of the fold of iris being unavoidable, the resulting aperture should be laid into one with the pupil by at once dividing the inter- vening strip of iris. An insufficient corneal incision must be enlarged by means of a short, narrow, blunt-pointed knife, or by scissors. A por- tion of the lens accidentally left behind, in situ, will be absorbed; or, from the anterior chamber, it can be easily removed by the scoop. Escape of the vitreous humour, resulting from an insufficient corneal wound and undue pressure on the eyeball, rupturing the hyaloid membrane, is attended with sinking down of the lens into the space left by the lost humour. Pressure must at once cease, and the lens be extracted by means of the scoop or hook entered behind the body, which should be retained in position against the cornea, lest it sink deeper into the vitreous humour. Emmorrhage into the vitreous humour is the most dangerous complication of all. Severe pain in the eye, and oozing of blood from between the lids, soon proclaim the nature of this accident, but not until the whole cavity of the eyeball has become filled with, blood. The sight is utterly lost. Conditions contra-indicating, or unfavourable for, Extraction.—(1.)