DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. 303 nrtran is then to be completely excised. Mr. Fiddes, of Jamaica, subsequently performed this operation, and recommends tbat the iino-uai artery should be ligatured and divided on either side, sepa- •itely in order to reduce the amount of haemorrhage. ' Liqature.—'Povtions of the tongue have been removed by ligature, in iireference to excision. The risk of haemorrhage is thus diminished or avoided; but the operation is more painful, tedious, and prejudicial, in consequence of contamination during the course of sloughing. To obviate the first objection, and check the profuse secretion of saliva, m Hilton has proposed and practised section of the lingual nerve, prior to the application of ligature. No sensation from the tumour can then be conveyed along the nerve ; no reflected irritation can reach the collateral branches of the fifth nerve; no stimulus to an increased secretion of saliva can be given to the salivary glands. Eminently, therefore, an operation based on a physiological principle, the patient should speak more freely, and swallow with less difficulty ; should be reheved of pain in the tongue and jaw, temple and crown of the head, and of the incessant inconvenience arising from the dribbling of saliva; he should sleep better, and become better nourished than before. Mr. Hilton sought for the nerve in the floor of the mouth, and exposed it by an incision along the mucous membrane close to the sublingual o-land. Mr. Moore, who has more recently divided the nerve, takes the fast molar tooth as his guide, where the nerve coming forward from under the internal pterygoid muscle is covered only by the mucous membrane. Passing a curved bistoury into the mouth and behind the last molar tooth, an incision three-quarters of an inch long down the jaw, and across the course of the nerve, must divide it. Ligature of the corresponding lingual artery has been combined with this operation by Mr. Moore, in order to cut off the supply of blood to the affected part. Ligature of the affected part may be performed as for neevus ; care being taken to plant the operation sufficiently wide of the disease, and to strangle the mass effectually and completely. A diseased part of the tongue, situated far back in the organ, has been reached by a vertical incision under the jaw, between the genio- hyoid muscles ; and in this way Cloquet and Arnott have succeeded in passing ligatures, by means of long needles, through the tongue, and strangling the mass. The results of operation, in the prolongation of life, compared with the mortality in the natural duration of the disease, are decidedly favourable to surgical interference. Thus, in Mr. Fairlie Clark's col- lection of thirty-nine cases, twenty-five were not submitted to operation, and of these the average period of life was forty-two weeks, and the longest period under two years; but, of the remaining fourteen cases, subject to operation, the average duration of life was eighty-six weeks, and the most prolonged lease six years ! (2.) Erectile Ti(,mour or N(Bvus of the tongue is an uncommon kind of growth, and does not attain to a great size. Removal can be effected by excision, or, preferably, by ligature; and it may be necessary to reach the affected portion of the tongue through an incision in the mylo-hyoid region. (3.) Fatty tumour has been known to occur, either in the substance of the tongue or underneath the organ. In the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons there is a specimen, No. 190, of fatty tumour taken