323 EXOSTOSIS. tion to be exostosed, the prognosis, as far as the teeth are concerned, IS very bad ; for the disease will probably attack other, or even all the remaining, teeth in succession. Occasionally exostoses take the form of sharp-pointed excrescences from the root of the tooth, and such growths have, in sonae instances, been the cause of severe neuralgia. The roots of teeth which have long been in an irritable condition are found to be attacked by absorption in some places, * while there is deposition going on at others. The accom- Fig. 690. panying figure (Fig. 690) shows the extent to which the roots of the tooth have been altered by such inflammatory processes. The apices of the roots, instead of being smooth and rounded, may become jagged and sharp, this alteration being often recognizable by touch of the finger before it is conspicuously visible to the eye. The roots of the teeth which are being lost through old i age become roughened by absorption ; but the process often > occurs in middle life, and is then more rapid, and attended by pain * and tenderness in the surrounding parts, and by neuralgic pains. The discharge which exudes from the gums round the necks of t teeth which have passed into this hopeless condition is oifensive but r not abundant. It has been supposed that these and analogous morbid conditions of the roots and sockets of teeth are caused by tartar intruding itself ': between the tooth and gum, and getting down into the sockets; but ; there must be a separation before the tartar can get there, and its r presence, though it serves as an irritant and aggravates the disease, :: must be regarded as an accident; for instances may be found in which 3 absorption of the sockets, and to a less extent of the roots, has gone .1 on till the tooth is so uncomfortable as to lead to its extraction, in \ which no tartar is to be found. On the other hand, tartar is capable of bringing about the loosening of the teeth, though in a slightly different r manner, so that two distinct morbid conditions, under which the teeth loosen in their sockets and themselves become to a slight extent i absorbed, must be recognized. Tartar is a deposit mainly consisting of salts of lime, mixed up 1 with some organic matter, which are deposited upon those parts of the t teeth least exposed to friction. Analyses differ, as might be expected. The largest deposits of tartar take place upon the backs of the I lower front teeth and upon the upper molars, these teeth being near to t the orifices of salivary ducts ; and if the accumulation is allowed to r remain, the gum recedes before it, the edge of the socket is absorbed • pari passu, and eventually the tooth falls out, loaded with tartar up to < almost its very apex. But no pain, and no considerable absorption c or roughening of the root, takes place. The process is a slower and !■ more mechanical one than that which has just been spoken of as i leading to the premature loss of teeth. In some persons the teeth become very deeply grooved on their <■ outer or labial surface, just at the level of the gums ; this groovino-, it • IS possible, may be produced by mere mechanical abrasion of the sur- ' face under the tooth-brush and tooth-powder, especially when the gum ' has receded so as to expose the tooth beyond the limit of the enamel. 1 But it is far more probable that the surface is first softened—decaici-