SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 564 ulcerates its way through the septum; in a week or two it becomes detached, the fissure at the same time granulating from the bottom. One advantage attends this method of dividing the fistula—hajmorrhage is less likely to occur. Ligature may, therefore, be more appropriate than cutting with the knife, in deep fistula ; where that operation might implicate the middle hasmorrhoidal artery. But in long, narrow, and tortuous fistula, the introduction of a ligature will scarcely be practi- cable ; and in any case, this method of cure is tedious and painful. Stimulant application to the fistulous tract is also another mode of cure, by inducing contraction and closure. This, however, is limited to blind external fistula, of short extent, free from induration, and situated perhaps at some distance from the anus, removed from the action of the sphincter muscle—the very conditions which are conducive sometimes to spontaneous cure. Such application may be made, either by means of irritant injections, as tincture of cantharides or tincture of iodine, used daily; or by passing up a probe armed with fused nitrate of silver. In the course of this treatment, the general health must also be improved by medicinal and hygienic measures. The results of treatment, whether by ligature or by stimulant in- jection, have not been very encouraging. Mr. Allingham has had ten successful cases, principally by injection ; but in more than twice that number, after a prolonged attempt, the results were unsuccessful. The failure thus to effect a cure contrasts with the general experience of the cutting operation usually practised. Double fistula in ano requires a double operation, if the fistula be complete on both sides ; and both may be advantageously slit up at the same time. Branch sinuses, with only one internal orifice, must be laid open; but the operation should be completed only through the primary sinus, where the inner orifice exists, leaving the bowel un- touched elsewhere. Ulcer of the Rectum, and Fissure of the Anus.—These two conditions may exist separately, or coexist. Ulcer of the rectum is situated just withiu the sphincter ani, and usually at the posterior part, near the coccyx; occasionally, however, having a lateral, or a perineal position. Extending outwards, perhaps, to the anal aperture, it is commonly associated with a small external heemorrhoid or pile, beneath the base of which the terminal limit of the ulcer lies concealed. Thus defined, the ulcer is situated.partly within the rectum, just above the ring of the sphincter muscle; and partly within the circumference of the anal aperture, approaching the condition of fissured anus. The ulcer is quite superficial, and varies in size from a large pin's head to a large split pea; when distended, it has an ovoid or circular shape; its surface is smooth, or rough when relaxed, and the colour may be reddish or sloughy ash-grey, with a slightly indurated margin. It lies, almost concealed, between the longitudinal folds of the rectal mucous membrane, the edges of the sore appearing only as a small fissure in the direction of the bowel; but on distending this passage with the speculum, the ulcer is brought into view, and its characters may be recognized. Fissure of the anus is situated at the anal aperture—the junction of the mucous membrane and integument, and not involving the rectum ; but, like rectal ulcer, usually having a dorsal position. It consists of a crack or streak of excoriation, running lengthways between the loose