SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 6 forceps for grasping bone, torsion-forceps, suture-needles, and silk or silver wire; splints and bandages, or other retentive apparatus. This list of armamentaria might be extended, and many and compli- cated instruments are described, particularly by French authors. It would, however, appear doubtful whether some sach appliances can possibly be used in accordance with the design of Excision. Some, indeed, of the above-mentioned instruments are of restricted applica- bility, and come into use only occasionally. Thus, for the elbow-joint, the saw devised by Mr. Butcher has a narrow blade, and being mov- able, it can be adjusted at any angle; an advantage for running the saw easily, and in any direction, to finish olf the excision. But, for the removal of an accessible slice of bone in the knee, the firm bearing of a broad-bladed amputating saw is preferable. The chain-saw also will be requisite only under quite exceptional circumstances; as to get round an imbedded bone, and which cannot be exposed and turned out as usual, as in some cases of hip-joint excision. Here, however, the long narrow-bladed saw is very handy, for removing the portion of bone in situ. I have seen the chain-saw used in excision of the hip, but not with any apparent advantage; and once the instrument broke. The "lion-forceps," devised by Sir William Fergusson, enables the operator to gain a firm grip of the olf-portion of bone, in order to steady it for the efficient and free working of the saw. This instrument thus proves serviceable in completing the excision of any partially severed portion of bone. Ligatures are scarcely ever necessary for the arrest of haemorrhage; torsion will generally prove sufficient. I have never found it necessary to apply a single ligature in any joint-excision; nor subsequently, but once, on account of secondary haemorrhage. Silver wire is, perhaps, preferable to silk for sutures; the latter material being, apparently, more apt to induce suppuration at the points of insertion along the line of incision. (1.) The incisions should be formed so as to fairly expose the articular ends of bone. Hence, they vary in shape according to the particular joint; a single linear incision, |, as frequently practised for exposure of the elbow-joint or the shoulder-joint, or two such incisions, one on either side, for the wrist; a double rectangular incision, —\, as also applicable to the elbow-joint; or, as a T-shaped incision, to the hip-joint; a curvilinear or elliptical incision, U> perhaps for the shoulder or the wrist, and certainly for the knee ; or an H-shaped incision, as some Surgeons jjrefer for the latter joint; and modifica- tions of these incisions for the ankle-joint. The incisions are so placed as to avoid important parts—tendons, blood-vessels, and nerves; and, therefore, not in the flexure of joints. The lines of incision which I am accustomed to practise, in the various operations of excision, as relating to the joints in both the upper and lower limbs, are here represented. (Fig. 478.) (2.) The ends of bone should not be denuded of their integument or of their ^periosteum, to any extent beyond the line necessary for the osseous excision ; the detachment of their vascular connection predis- posing to necrosis. (3.) The extent of hone to be removed must be determined by ob- serving the appearances of disease, compared with healthy bone, as discovered during the operation of excision. Hence, this kind of