SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 560 was Situated more than two inches up the rectum, and equally high up in Case 32. I may add, that in a case of complete fistula, on which I operated, the inner orifice was three inches from the anus. The diagnosis of the three conditions of fistula in ano is very obvious. Complete and blind external fistula both present an external opening by the side of the anus, or otherwise placed. But on passing up a probe or director along the course of the fistula to the bowel, the forefinger of the other hand having been introduced into the gut to feel for the point of the instrument; in the one condition of fistula, an opening is discovered through which the probe can be made to toucli the finger,—no septum intervening ; in the other condition, the point of the probe will be felt more or less plainly through the thickness of the bowel, but not in contact with the finger,—a membranous septum, however thin, always intervening. Blind internal fistula is less readily detected. There may be some brawny swelling and tenderness on pressure externally, with perhaps a burning pain after defecation, owing to the lodgment of feculent matter in the fistula; but there is no external opening. A purulent discharge from the interior of the bowel, and the escape of pus on pressure over the ischio-rectal fossa, will both lead to the diagnosis of an internal fistula; and this will be confirmed by feeling the orifice in the gut, when the finger is passed into the anus. The horseshoe form of fistula presents some induration on both sides of the anus, as distinctive of the peculiar course of the passage. The relation of fistula in ano to rectal abscess has been disputed. Abscess is said to occur first, external to the bowel; then opening into it, and outwards, by the side of the anus, a complete fistula is thus con- stituted. If the abscess opens only externally, a blind external fistula results. This mode of fistula formation I have already alluded to, and it is that which Mr. Syme maintains. Conversely, ulceration of the mucous membrane of the bowel is a reputed mode of origin; and lead- ing to the formation of an opening, and an abscess externally,—a blind internal fistula is thus produced, which may result in complete fistula. This was the opinion held by Sir B. Brodie. In the one mode of formation, abscess precedes and causes—in the other, it follows and results from—the formation of an opening in the gut. Doubtless, fistula originates in both ways. Blind external fistula—not an un- common condition—must necessarily arise by an abscess independent of the rectum, there being no communication with the bowel. The particular way in which fistula arises is determined, probably, by the causes of rectal abscess. Any occasion of irritation or of venous con- gestion, external to the bowel, will probably produce abscess in that situation, followed by fistula; any impaction of faeces or a foreign body in the rectum will probably produce ulceration of the mucous mem- brane, followed by some amount of feculent extravasation into the surrounding cellular texture, and abcess as the result of this irritation. The fTocjnosis is unfavourable in proportion to the organic or con- stitutional origin of the disease ; as in fistula arising from venous con- gestion, and dependent on some organic disease of the heart, liver, or lungs,—especially phthisis. Treatment.—Spontaneous cure may possibly take place, when the fistula is of short extent, without induration, and situated at some dis- tance from the anus, away from the action of the sphincter muscle ;