334 * After Mason. SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. CHAPTER XLVIII. DISEASES OF THE JAWS. Injuries.—See Fractures and Dislocations Fissure OF the Palate, or Cleft PALATE.-This congenital malforma tion consists of a mesial fissure of the uvula alone, or of it and the sofi palate; extending sometimes along the hard palate, and occasionally forwards to the npper hp, thus presenting the concomitant conditLn of single or double hare-hp. Rarely the lip and hard palate are fissured without mvolvmg the soft palate. On opening the mouth the fissured condition is at once seen and Its obvious mterference with speech and deglutition are readily eHcited • the patient speaking with a snuffling, nasal tone of voice, and in the act tWghZTose^^'^ °' regurgitates, and may escape The following description of this malformation, and of the opera- tion, known as Staphyloraphy, for its curative treatment, is from the pen of my colleague, Mr. William Rose, who, as formerly the assistant to bir William Fergusson, has had considerable experience with regard to cleft palate, and has himself operated in many cases with very sue- CGSSXU.1 rGsults. This condition is the result of an arrest of development occnrrinff abont_ the second or third month of foetal life. At this period the superior maxillae, with the exception of those portions of the bones which afterwards bear the incisor teeth, are developed separately from the first of the four series of visceral arches; bnt the central portion of the upper hp, together with those parts of the superior maxQlEe ]ust referred to, are developed from the median bud. This central and at present isolated portion is the seat of one, and some say two, ossific ^.oo* centres, and is known as the intermaxillary iiG. 693. bone, or " os incisiorum," which about the eighth week begins to unite with the maxiUte proper. Should arrest of development take place before the coalescence of these lateral portions with the intermaxillary bone, a donble hare-lip and cleft palate is the result. (See Fig. 693.) In well-marked cases of this de- formity the maxilljB are widely separated from the intermaxillary bone, which in addition projects forward, forming a sort of nodule, covered by the central part of the upper hp, and is attached to and solely supported by the anterior inferior termination of the septum nasi. Although the treatment of hare-lip is entered into in another part of this work, it inay be well to draw attention to the slender support which m such cases this intermaxillary bone possesses; as this fact renders the stunted incisor teeth which afterwards appear in it