OPEBATION OF JOINT-EXCISION. 5 (3.) Disease o£ tlie soft parts around the joint diseased is not, in itself, unfavourable to tlie result of excision ; even although the integur ment's be much undermined by sinuses, and thickened by gelatinous infiltration, or soddened by puriform discharge. This surroundmg condition of disease will subside, and the integuments regain a healthy state, when the central source of irritation, the diseased joint, is extirpated ; provided only sufficient sound integument be left to cover the exposed ends of bone. But any considerable disorganization of the integument is generally connected with advanced constitutional disturbance and hectic exhaustion,—the most unfavourable condition for joint-excision. (4.) A. chronic state of disease, in the joint and surrounding soft parts, is a condition of far more favourable character-for excision, than one of acute inflammation. (5.) In all doubtful cases, as to the diseased condition of the joint, a good practical rule is, to lay the articulation open, by an incision as for the operation, and examine its condition, before having recourse to amputation, which can then be performed at once. (6.) Certain co-existing constitutional diseases, as phthisis, seem to have an unfavourable infliience, and in proportion to the progress of such disease. (7.) Age has no special constitutional relation to the propriety oi joint-excision. Either extreme period of life seems unfavourable for this kind of operation, owing to the long period of recovery; averaging three months at least for the knee or hip joint, and six weeks for the elbow-joint. As to extremes of age ; taking the knee-joint as the best example of a large joint; according to Dr. R. Hodges, excision has been performed as early as three years, and as late as sixty-eight years. The former case recovered, with what state of after-limb is not re- corded ; the latter died. The average age of the fatal cases was twenty- five years ; of recoveries, nineteen yeaus. Of my own cases, the first, and one of the most successful, was thirty-tliree years old, and another, equally successful, was twenty-seven. But the constitutional power of recovery from severe compound fracture, after- either of these periods of life, would suggest the propriety of trying excision of the knee- joint at a more advanced age. Thus, in one case, I performed this operation at fifty-three years of age,—the most advanced period of life, I believe, at which this joint has ever been excised; and complete osseous anchylosis resulted. Youth may be unfavourable for the operation of j-oint-excision, as being subject to an arrested growth of the limb, from removal of the epiphyses or epiphysial cartilages. But this objection refers only to excision of the knee-joint, the length of the arm, after operation at the elbow-joint, having a comparatively un- important relation to its functional utility; and even with regard to the lower limb, the line of epiphysial cartilage may generally be left, thus providing to some extent for the subsequent growth of the limb in length. Operation of Excision.—Certain general directions are common to all these operations. Instruments.—The requisite Instruments, and Apparatus for after- treatment, are few and of simple construction. They comprise scalpels, thin and stout-bladed, curved copper retractors, saws—a broad-bladed and straight-backed amputating saw, a long narrow-bladed saw, and Butcher's saw, the chain-saw; gouges, and cutting-pliers, the lion-