199 JDISEASES OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. reddish, aphthous-like elevations on the conjunctiva, having whitish centres, but not containing pus; and each surrounded by a plexus of blood-vessels. They are sometimes seated on the edge of the cornea. This variety of ophthalmia frequently occurs, particularly in children. The treatment should consist in clearing the bowels with some mild laxative or brisk purgative, according to the age and strength of the patient; the administration of quinine, or quinine and iron, or of cod-liver oil; and the application to the under surface of the upper lid of a small portion of the so-called Pagonstecher's ointment, com- posed of two or four grains of the binoxide of mercury in one ounce of spermaceti ointment. (c.) Purulent OpUlialmia.—In this variety of the disease, the cornea is very liable to become involved ; thus constituting its distinctive peculiarity. Three s?6&-varieties are recognized ; purulent ophthalmia, as it occurs in adults, in new-lorn infants, and that of gonorrhoeal origin. But they all agree in implicating the cornea, and also often resemble each other so closely, as not to be distinguished otherwise than by their respective origins. Purulent ophthalmia, in a well-marked state, presents the follow- ing appearances. The lids are dull red or purple, swollen and oedema- tous; when drawn apart, thick yellow purulent secretion oozes out from the conjunctiva, and, if allowed to dry, forms a crust, conceal- ing the eyelashes. The patient cannot open his heavy eyelids, and is pale and depressed, the more so with the belief that he is blind. Chemosis exists to such a degree as to overlap the cornea, and ulcera- tion or sloughing of the cornea supervenes. The former commences at the extreme margin of the cornea, underneath, the overlapping che- mosis, and might therefore escape observation; extending as a deep crescentic groove, perforation takes place, and prolapsus of the iris, which appears as a small dark nodule at the bottom of the ulcer, with some deformity of the pupil. Sometimes the ulcerative groove, ex- tending around the cornea, isolates its central portion, which bulges as a whitish or opaque shield; or, becoming thinned, it is darkened by mixed fibres of the protruding iris. Sloughing of the cornea is pre- ceded by yellowish opacity and dulness of the surface, the cornea having the appearance of wash-leather; softening and shreddy disin- tegration of the cornea ensues, the whole iris balges with it, and, with fibrous exudation, constitutes a staphyloma. Purulent ophthalmia is communicable by contact with the purulent secretion,—it is a contagious disease. It is most common in hot climates—hence named Egyptian Ophthalmia; and I often saw the disease at Constantinople, during the Crimean War. It also occurs most frequently in this country during the hottest months—July and August, particularly during the prevalence of an east wind. Dust irritating the conjunctiva is a predisposing cause. Treatment.—Arrest of the purulent inflammation, in time to prevent ulceration or sloughing of the cornea, is the grand indication. Local measures consist in the frequent use of astringent lotions; nitrate of silver, three or four grains to the ounce of water; or alum, in the proportion of eight or ten grains to the ounce. These eye-washes may be applied by sponging or syringing, three or four times a day. Ulcer- ation itself can sometimes be arrested by touching the spot with a fine pencil of nitrate of silver, or a probe coated with the fused salt; the