628 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Chemical Tests.—The over-acid reaction, as sliown bj blue litmus paper, has already been noticed. A deposit of uric acid is insoluble in hot water, but soluble in alka- lies—potash, soda, and ammonia. A portion of the deposit is to be dissolved in a drop of potash. The alkaline solution is then to be treated with excess of acetic acid. In a few hours, crystals of nric acid will have formed, which can be identified by microscopic examination. A portion of the deposit may be placed on a glass slide, and treated with a drop of strong nitric acid. Evaporate to dryness by a gentle heat, and expose the slide to the vapour of ammonia, or add a drop. A beautiful violet colour, from the formation of murexide, attests the presence of uric acid, or a urate (L. Beale). The total amount of lithic acid excreted can be discovered by a simple experiment, devised by Dr. Grolding Bird. Let all the urine passed in twenty-four hours be collected, well shaken, and a given quantity— say about two ounces—be mixed in a conical glass vessel, with about half a drachm of hydrochloric acid. In six or eight hours crystals of uric acid are copiously deposited on the sides of the glass. To insure their complete separation, they should be allowed to repose for twenty- four hours, and may then be washed, dried, and weighed.* Simple multiplication shows the whole amount of uric acid secreted in the twenty-four hours, without the chance of any considerable error. In estimating the pathological importance of the result thus obtained, the healthy standard of quantity should be remembered, and this ranges from six to ten grains of uric acid in twenty-four hours. Urates or Lithates op Soda or Ammonia in Urine.—Physical Characters of Urine.—Turbid in all cases on cooling and depositing lithates ; the other characters are in accordance, principally, with their colour. White lithates are deposited from a pale-coloured urine; specific gravity low—I'OlO to 1"014. The deposit is suspended, having a -whitish, flocculent, cloudy appearance, which resembles mucus. Famn-colonred lithates are deposited from an amber-coloured urine; specific gravity higher, but still lower than normal, being about I'OIS. lied brick-dust lithates are deposited from a yet deeper-coloured urine, and of higher specific gravity. Purjde and pink lithates are deposited from a corresponding coloured urine, and of high specific gravity. The quantity of lithates secreted, and precipitated spontaneously, may not be equal. Hence the latter may not indicate the whole quantity. They are held in solution by urine of the ordinary temperature of the body, 98°; but as the urine cools on exposure in the vessel used for its reception, the lithates are deposited. The proportion of water, as a constituent of urine, will also regulate the quantity deposited. These two conditions have been already noticed. But over-acidity of urine, owing to other acids in excess, allows an abundant deposit; whereas, a slightly acid or alkaline urine holds a proportion of the lithates in solution. Microscopical Characters.—Amorphous granules is the usual appear- ance of lithate of ammonia, as seen under the microscope (Fig- 862); but certain forms of crystal are, occasionally presented. Thus, sphe- rules sometimes constricted in the middle, assuming a dumb-bell * " Urinary Deposits," 4th edit. See also Animal Chemistry," etc., by Bence Jones, M.D., p. 53.