100 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY- ligatured is also followed by liEemorrhage. Constitutional causes in- clude reaction after the stump has been put up, many vessels not bleeding at the time the main trunk was ligatured, and even this vessel will not bleed in a state of great collapse; excessive reaction has the same effect; an aplastic state of the blood will delay and impair tbe formation of clot within the vessel; and blood-poisons also have this effect, or, by inducing erysipelas or sloughing of the wound, the result is the same—secondary haemorrhage. The phenomena of such haemorrhage are not, as with primary arte- rial haemorrhage, a jetting stream of florid blood; but, after a while, the blood wells up from the wound, and oozes through the dressings, then ceasing perhaps, it recurs again in a few hours. A stump should, there- fore, always be watched for some time after amputation; and in the event of blood oozing, its continuance should be tested by sponging the part dry and overlaying it with a piece of dry lint, so as to detect any further escape. The period when secondary haemorrhage occurs is variable ; separation of the ligature is always a time for vigilance. " Hgemorrhage, by reducing the volume of the blood, produces low- arterial tension, and consequently a more or less dicrotous pulse in proportion to its amount. Unless the loss of blood has been very great, the volume of the blood expelled Fig. 536. at each ventricular contraction is not much, if at all diminished; but the emptiness of the vessels allows the pulse to collapse rapidly: hence the characteristic ' splash pulse' associated with this condition. The pulse re- produced in the figure (Fig. 536) had this character remarkably developed; the dicrotic beat also was perceptible to the finger." * Treatment must have reference to the presumed cause of hemor- rhage, as mainly determined by the period of its occurrence. Early secondary hjemorrhage—within a few hours or days—may generally be suppressed by elevating the stump, and the application of cold and pressure to the flaps, a compress above and below bemg used and the bandage tightened. This failing, the stump must be opened up, the vessels sought for and tied, and the flaps replaced when the bleeding is controlled. Later secondary haemorrhage—after ten days or a fort- nitrht—proceeds, more probably, from the main artery m the stump ; a ring tourniquet applied to that vessel above the stump wiU perhaps arrest the bleeding: this failing, the stump may be opened up, the coao-ula turaed out, and the vessel sought and tied; or a ligature applied to the vessel above the stump. The choice between these two latter proceedings should be determined by the state of the stump, as regards the soundness or the unsoundness of the union. In the one case the vessel should be sought in situ; in the other, alove the stump. Ligature high up, as by the Hunterian operation, may even then be requisite. In the event of any faUure in arresting the hemorrhage, these different proceedings should be had recourse to successively. It, from the probable pre-existence of some causative condition, there be a liability to secondary haemorrhage after amputation, or other opera- # " The Pulse after Severe Hromorrhage," note by Dr. Mahomed.