430 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. appears. Bandaging may have some repressive and absorbent effect Punctures, well placed, more decidedly control the spread of emphy- sema ; and an external wound, when present, may sometimes be opened with advantage to aid in discharging the imprisoned air. Should respiration become oppressed, venesection, freely employed' will often afford the most marked and instantaneous relief. I cited a case in point from my own observation, when treating of fracture of the ribs. HiEMOTHORAX.—The presence of hlood in the pleural cavity gives rise to different signs from those of Pneumothorax. Haemorrhage may be suspected by dulness on percussion, with absence of the respiratory murmur,—these signs being more marked at first over the most de- pendent portion of the pleural cavity, where the blood collects; dyspnoea is more or less urgent, and collapse; and all these signs or symptoms are found to have arisen in connection with a fractured rib, or a penetrating wound of the chest. The blood may proceed from the lung or from an intercostal artery. Secondary hemorrhage, and the circumstances under which it supervenes, may also produce hsemo- thorax. Blood thus extravasated soon undergoes putrefactive changes,- and leads to the formation of pus in the pleural cavity—empyema. Sometimes there is a collection of air above the level of the blood,—a co-existing pneumothorax ; and then percussion elicits a tympanitic resonance above the line of dulness. But the respiratory murmur is equally absent all over that side of the chest. Treatment.—An early opening must be made, both to relieve the breathing and to prevent the risk of empyema. Advantage should be taken of an external wound to make that the vent; a probe-pointed bistoury being carefully used to free the opening. A cupping-glass may be applied to withdraw the blood, if it be not readily discharged. If the hasmorrhage be persistent and symptoms of haemothorax return, the plan recommended by Gruthrie may become advisable. The wound is to be closed, so that the blood accumulating in the pleural cavity shall compress the orifice in the lung, and thus arrest any further hsemorrhage; the patient lying on that side as an additional pressure on the wounded and bleeding organ. After the lapse of six or eight days, the wound should be reopened, or tapping may be per- formed, to evacuate the imprisoned blood ; which, if allowed to remain longer, would probably provoke empyema. Hydrothorax.—A collection of serous fluid, or water, in the pleural cavity, may be the result of pleurisy; but more commonly this condition arises from disease of the heart or lungs, obstructing the circulation. Both sides of the chest may be affected. The signs are those of empyema, without the accompanying hectic fever. Treatment surgically has regard only to the relief of dyspnoea by evacuation of the imprisoned fluid,—the operation of paracentesis thoracis. Empyema, or Pyothorax.—A collection of pus in the pleural cavity is usually the consequence of pleuritis ; induced by a wound of the pleura from a fractured rib, or a penetrating wound of the chest. The lung may, or may not, be implicated. Occasionally, the irritation of a carious rib, or the bursting of an abscess into the chest, is the cause of empyema.