626 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tubule casts, spermatozoa. Vegetable parasitic productions, or as engen- dered m decomposing or fermenting urine, e.g. PenicilUum glaucum in non-saccharine; Torula cerevisia, yeast-plant, in saccharine urine, when subjected to the fermentation test. Other foreign substances,' e.g. hairs, cotton fibres from the towel used in examination, sputa, starch granules from admixture of food or tooth-powder, fa3cal matter,' particles of soot, sand, or dirt. Appliances for JExamination of Urine.—(1.) CAemicaL—Certain simple chemical apparatus and tests will suffice for a clinical exami- nation of the urine, and of its deposits. The apparatus comprises—Urine glasses, rather tall and deep receptacles suitable for immersion of the urinometer in taking the specific gravity of urine, and a glass graduated as a measure ; test- tubes, in a half-dozen series, with stand, spirit-lamp, and well-corked bottle of methylated spirit, slips or slides of glass, drop-tubes, and glass stirring-rods. The Tests ordinarily required are—Acids: nitric acid fort., acetic acid. Alkalies: liquor potassee, liquor ammonise fort. Special tests : sulphate of copper solution, or blue hydrated oxide of copper, or yeast for sugar-testing; sulphuric acid for bile-testing. (2.) Glinical Microscope.—Oberhauser's microscope is an instru- ment which I have been accustomed to use for many years in the examination of the urine and its deposits. I have had the same instrument in work since the year 1863, a period of twenty-five years. The only inconveniences I have experienced in working it are that in altering the focus or the field of vision, respectively, the requisite adjustment cannot be so readily commanded by the hand movement of the tube, or the object, as it is by the screw movements in other microscopes. But, unprovided with this additional mechanism for either such purpose, the price of the instrument is much less, an important consideration with regard to its general eligibility. Beale's clinical pocket microscope is a very simple, portable, and inexpensive instrument. Object-glasses required for Clinical Examination.—Whatever form of microscope be preferred, the object-glasses, for magnifying the object to be examined, are the most essential requisite. The qualities of an object-glass consist in its magnifying power and achromatic character, by clearly defining the object, without any encircling play of colours. The powers most commonly useful in medical practice are two : the quarter of an inch focus, magnifying about 200 diameters, and the inch, magnifying about 30 to 50 diameters. Microscope Lamp.—For examining objects by artificial light at night, or otherwise in the absence of daylight, some kind of illumi- nating contrivance will be necessary. An ordinary French lamp, pro- vided with a blue glass chimney, may be used, or that recommended by Dr. Lionel Beale, a small paraffin lamp, with a round wick, may be preferred. But in the absence of any such lamp, a short wax candle, giving a clear white light, steadied by a screen, supplies a ready con- t rivance which will generally suffice. LiTHio OR Uric Acid (Cj^oH^N^O,,) in Urine.—Physical Characters of Urine.—Clear, bright, golden or coppery colour, like brown sherry. Specific gravity increased. Quantity somewhat diminished. Acid re- action more decided, producing a deeper shade of red in blue litmus