SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 500 escaping. The communication between the bowel and integument may not be immediate,—through the adhesive junction of the mucous mem- brane and skin ; they may even be placed at some distance apart, a channel intervening between two apertures, internal and external. This modification of artificial anus occurs when the knuckle of intestine is lodged deeply; as in the neck of the sac, or within the abdominal cavity when an irrecoverable portion of intestine has been returned. In the latter case, f^cal matter begins to issue, a few days after operation, and gradually increases in quantity; until, from merely staining the dressing, the nature of the communication is plainly declared. The extent of intestine destroyed by the formation of arti- ficial anus, varies to two and three inches or more ; but the length of the portion of bowel involved has not interfered with complete recovery in some cases. Treatment.—This will depend on the size of the aperture. A small opening—a ffecal fistula—may contract and close, by cleanliness and the pressure of a pad to restrain the discharge. This result may also be induced by the occasional introduction of a red-hot wire, or of the galvanic cautery. Closure can be directly effected sometimes by a plastic operation, as Yelpeau proposed and practised; by engrafting a small piece of skin over the aperture, or by making an oval incision on; either side and bringing the outer edges of the incisions together by; means of fine needles and twisted suture. A large aperture, and fairly estallished artificial anus, will very rarely contract and close, but requires a special surgical operation to effect a cure. The object is twofold ; to destroy or diminish the spur-like partition, in order to regain the continuity of the intestinal canal, and then to close the external aperture. The destructive part of this pro- ceeding may, perhaps, be accomplished by repressing the septum, according to Desault's method, by means of a tent thrust into both intestinal openings. It can be more surely accompHshed, and with equal safety provided due caution be observed, by strangling the septum; for which purpose Dupuytren's enterotome is admirably adapted. This instrument is simply a serrated forceps, worked by a screw across the end of its handle. (See Fig. 782.) The septum is grasped and compressed between the blades, and the pressure gradually increased by daily turning the screw, until the blades meet and the intervening septum has sloughed away in a week or ten days. Plastic lymph is thrown out simultaneously, whereby the peritoneum should remain unopened, when the instrument is withdrawn. Hence the caution necessary, not to grasp the septum too high up towards the mesentery, and to regulate the compression in concert with the plastic effusion. Some colicky pain or nausea may be induced, but no rigors or febrile disturbance. The continuity of the canal having been established, the margin of the external anal aperture must be pared and brought together by hare-lip sutures. But the constant discharge of fjBcal matter tends to keep open the aperture; it was therefore proposed by Acrel to feed the patient by nutritive enemata, and lite has been thus supported for a period of six weeks, during which the aperture contracted, and at length closed. The escape ot pure bile occasionally produced pain and excoriation, but this was overcome by giving a spoonful of broth by the mouth from time to time. ^^^"^^ the process of cure, I attach much importance to the influence ot the