738 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. intercourse, and nocturnal emissions, are often experienced. These symptoms are much increased by riding on horseback or prolonged walking exercise, and by errors of diet. Examination witli the finger per rectum will discover the prostatic enlai'gement. Treatment consists in counter-irritation to the perineum, and careful regulation of the digestive organs ; the administration of iodide of potassium, tonics, especially iron and quinine, and a supporting diet. Nocturnal emissions are best overcome by the application of nitrate of silver to the prostatic urethra. By pursuing this course of treatment for a long period, a cure will generally be accomplished. Chronic Enlargement, or Hypertrophy, of the Prostate.—This prostatic affection is of common occurrence after the age of fifty-five to sixty years ; but it never happens before the fii\st-named period, and extreme old age seems to be less liable to it. Age and this prostatic enlargement are, therefore, invariably associated. Chronic inflam- matory enlargement of tbe prostate may occur at any age alter puberty ; but the chronic enlargement of the gland in advanced Hfe is quite distinct from any inflammatory state—it is an hypertrophied condition. Structrwal Conditions.—The dissections by Sir H. Thompson and by Fig. 902.* Fig. 903.t nic enlargement of the prostate. The tissues of which the prostate gland consists—^in its normal or aiiatomical struc- ture—are : first, unstriped muscular fibre, with connective tissue, form- ing at least three-fourths of the prostatic body ; secondly, interspersed among this structure are numerous branching glandular tubes and crypts, with their accompanying ducts. Enlargement, or hyper- trophy, may be determined by an abnormal production of the first- named elements alone; or with some of the glandular tissue interspersed, and which may be imperfectly or fully developed. The parts of the prostate thus affected may be the two lateral lobes (Fig. 902), which are sometimes increased to four or six times their natural weight and bulk; or an outgrowth may take place from the central part of the organ, in a backward direction towards the cavity of the bladder, as a * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus. Enlarged prostate; longitudinal section. (Mr Pye.) t Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2491. Enlargement of the middle lobe of prostate, in the form of a round, smooth projection into the neck of the bladder, just belnnd the urethral orifice. Signs of the disease had existed for two years. (Sir A. Oooi)cr.)