SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 206 see, in sliglit cases. A small, pin-hole aperture, in a blackened shield, or metallic plate, held close to the eye, will enable a patient to read at a focus of five or six inches, who could not otherwise discern a letter. Or, a sht, about three-fourths of an inch long, and the thirtieth of an inch wide, allows a considerable range of lateral vision, without moving the head. A combination of concave glasses and this per- forated diaphragm, set in a spectacle frame, may prove even more advantageous, (3.) Arcus Senilis.—A circumferential opacity of the cornea, de- pending, as Mr. Canton has shown, on fatty degeneration. When both eyes are affected, this opacity denotes one of those naturally degenerative changes of nutrition, which the cornea, in common with other textures—especially those of low vitality—undergoes as life ad- vances, say from fifty years of age, onwards. Thus, arcus senilis is often associated with fatty degeneration of the heart. In like manner it may be indicative of premature old age. As affecting one eye, it is generally the result of previous injury or disease of the organ itself. Fortunately, this textural deterioration does not interfere with vision, nor render the texture of the cornea unfit for operation, as the ex- traction of cataract—the wound then uniting quickly and soundly. No known treatment is of any avail. Diseases of the Sclerotic.—Sclerotitis.—Inflammation of the Sclerotic, or white coat of the eye, has been alluded to as occurring paH'ially in connection with Catarrhal Conjunctivitis, and with Kerat- itis, and it also accompanies Iritis. The vascular contiguity or con- tinuity of the textures severally affected with Inflammation, probably explains this concurrence. But Sclerotitis may occur alone, or at least as a primary affection, and more completely than when thus associated. The whole of the sclerotic is intensely injected, the otherwise white coat assuming a pink tint, shading into violet, owing to the depth of the vessels in the fibrous tissue. Lachrymation and intolerance of light are marked symptoms; with pain deep-seated in and around the eye- ball, of an aching and neuralgic character, radiating to the brow, temple, and cheek, and penetrating to the back of the head. Exacer- bations occur during the night, and remit towards morning. The constitutional disturbance, also, is intense, the febrile symptoms lead- ing to a copious deposit of lithates in the urine; hence the disease has been named Rheumatic Ophthalmia. Diagnosis from Conjunctivitis.—The redness differs in its colour, being a pale pink, and the injected vessels run in straight lines from the circumference of the eye towards the cornea, there forming a dusky pink zone, of minute vessels, without visible anastomosis—the sclerotic zone; whereas, in conjunctivitis, the colour is crimson, and the vessels are larger, tortuous, and anastomotic, forming an open net- work, which, moreover, can be moved about under the finger. The intense, deep-seated pain of sclerotitis, compared with the pricking sensation as of a grain of sand in the eye, with conjunctivitis, will confirm the diagnosis. Treatment.—A free purgation should be followed by opiates, in narcotic doses. Quinine is valuable in proportion to the neuralgic character of the pain ; and colchicum with an alkali or iodide of potas- sium, accoi'ding to the rheumatic character of the constitutional dis-