690 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Enveloping folds of mucous membrane are sometimes met with, the stone thus eluding the grasp of the forceps. This mechanical difficulty must be overcome by manoouvre with the forceps, or by the more direct and safe means of the finger and scoop. An insufficiently injected bladder would be more likely to present this difficulty. Hour-glass contraction of the bladder, the stone being placed in the upper compartment, will probably necessitate recom-se to the high or supra-pubic operation of lithotomy. An adherent state of the calculus has been doubted by some authors; but an indisputable case is recorded by Mr. Shaw in the " Transactions of tbe Pathological Society," vol. vi. The adhesion of the mucous membrane to the stone was effected by fibrous tissue, the fibres dipping into the calcareous substance; and this union was so firm that it resisted separation by tearing with tbe forceps. I have figured a specimen (p. 673) in which there wei'e numerous small adherent calculi; and in another specimen at the Royal College of Surgeons, two calculi of some size (p. 674) were firmly attached to the mucous coat of the bladder. In extracting phosphatic calculi, the deposit of rough cal- careous matter on the rugae of the bladder must not be mistaken for a distinct calculus ; any attempt to remove the former would, of course, prove disastrous by tearing away the mucous membrane with the deposit. Position of the stone.—Two parts of the bladder, in either of which, the calculus may be situated, ofEer considerable difficulty to seizure of the stone. When lodged in a depression behind an enlarged prostate (Fig. 884), the stone must be brought up by tilting the bladder with the finger introduced into the rectum, and then using a long curved pair of forceps or a curved scoop. When situated above the pubes anteriorly, towards the upper fundus of the bladder (Fig. 885), the stone must be lowered by compressing the abdomen, as Aston Key recommended, and then seized with a curved forceps or the curved Fig. 884.* Fig. SSS.f cysted and adherent. Raising the pelvis will sometimes enable the forceps to grasp the stone, a resource which proved successful in a case on which Mr. Coulson operated. * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2028. A deep pouch at the base of the bladder, just behind the prostate; and, in this post-prostatic depression, a rough calculus, more than an inch in diameter, is lying almost concealed. (Liston.) t Ibid., 1983. (Liston.)