54 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND 8UK0ERY. Fig. 508.* Lateral incisions alone, without the anterior communication, have since sufBced. This was ray mode of operation in two cases. The Aflcr-ti-ealment of ankle-joint excision should bo conducted in accordance with the principles laid down re- specting the excision of other joints; regard being had to the kind of anchylosis necessary for the use of the limb. The fixed position of the foot must be maintained during the period requisite to secure a firm fibrous union of the osseous surfaces made by excision—the lower ends of the tibia and fibula, and the upper sur- face of the astragalus; thus to adapt the foot for support and progression. (Fig. 508.) The wounds, one on either side of the ankle, are dressed from day to day ; but the splint should be removed and reapplied very seldom. In my own excisions of the ankle-joint, I have fixed the leg on a flat back-spliut, provided with a foot-piece; thus secured, displacement can scarcely occur, and the side wounds are freely accessible for cleansing and dressing. Eventu- ally, a starched bandage may be apphed; and the foot being slung from the neck, the patient gets about on crutches, as the foot is gradually brought into use. Results.—Excision of the Ankle-joint, for disease, presents some most interesting results, both in relation to the mortality of this operation, and the state of the foot, with the probability of secondary amputation ; both these aspects of the operation being considered also as compared with amputation of the leg, and with Syme's and Piro- goff's operations of amputation at the Ankle-joint, for disease. For certain valuable statistics bearing on these important questions, I am indebted to Mr. Hancock, who liberally placed at my disposal the manuscript of his Lectures at the Royal College of Surgeons. (1.) In relation to Mortality.—The results of 32 cases of excision of the ankle-joint for disease have been collected by Mr. Hancock; all that he could find recorded in the practice of British Surgeons. Of these 32 cases, 7 died—about 1 in 5, or a fraction above 21 per cent. But of the 7 deaths, 4 are reported to have died of consumption, 1 suffering from that disease at the time of operation; while another died of secondary syphilis. This reduces the average mortality to 1 in 16, or about 6 per cent. Of my own two cases, both lived. Author's Collection. (1.) Charuig Cross Hospital; period, 1858-65. (Per Mr. Hancock.) Number of cases, 6: recoveries, 6; amputation after excision, 1; recoveries, 1. (2.) Koyal Free Hospital; period, five years, 1870. Number of cases, 4: re- coveries, 4 ; amputations after excision—Symc's amputation, 1; recoveries, 1. (3.) Chalmers' Hospital, Edinburgh; period, six years, 1870. (Per Mr. P. H. Watson.) Number of cases, 4: recoveries, 4. (4.) Koyal Infirmary, Edinburgh; period, 1865-69. (Per Mr. P. H. Watson.) Nmnber of cases, 3: recoveries, 2; deaths, 1. „ , ^ -vt (5.) St. Bartholomew's Hospital; period, 1866-70. (Per Mr. Callender.) Num- ber of cases, 1: recoveries, 1. * Eoy. Med. Chir. Trans., vol. Ivii. Mr. H. Lee's case of excision of ankle-jouit, for injury.