278 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. believe, by Dr. M'Ruer, an American physician, who highly extols it. A piece of catgut is introduced, through the nostrils into the mouth, to which IS fastened a piece of soft and dry sponge, corresponding in size, when firmly compressed, to the narrowest part of the nasal passage ; it is then drawn gently forwards through the nose. In at least ten cases, all the adventitious growths were thus brought away. Fibrous polypus may, perhaps, be extracted with forceps, or tied when pedunculate. Excision has succeeded in broader-based and larger-sized polypi of this kind. Cancerous polypus is perfectly irremediable and uncontrollable by any surgical proceeding. Tumours of the Septum.—Besides abscess of the septum, presenting its characteristic swelling as already noticed, certain tumours, con- taining blood or of a cartilaginous consistence, are liable to form in the septum nasi. The bloody tumour is always the result of injury, and has the appearances of ecchymosis in other parts of the body. Absorption of the extravasated blood should be promoted; incision is rarely necessary. Cartilaginous tumour is very uncommon. Mr. Ure met with one such case, and wherein he effected a cure by excision; the junction of the ala of the nose with the cheek having been slit up, in order to make room for the application of a gouge to remove the tumour. A gelatinous tumour, of uncertain nature, sometimes forms in the septum. It may be obliterated by snipping away a portion of the wall, and cauterizing the interior with nitrate of silver. Calculi or Rhinoliths.—Calculous concretions occasionally form in the nasal cavities ; usually in the lower meatus, or they may originate in the frontal sinus or in the maxillary sinus, and thence pass into the nostril. They vary in size from a date to a hazel-nut, or may com- pletely block up the nares, and produce deviation or partial destruction of the septum. They present an uneven surface, and are of a black, grey, or white aspect. Sometimes single, in other cases multiple, nasal calculi consist of phosphate and carbonate of lime, magnesia, and mucus; resembling other concretions. The nucleus may be an extraneous body, as a cherry-stone, or portion of a tooth. The cause of these concretions is obscure, probably chronic inflammation of the Schneiderian mucous membrane. The treatment will, obviously, be the extraction of such bodies by suitable forceps or scoop; and then to allay irritation. Closure of the Nostrils may be congenital, or acquired as the result of inflammatory constriction or adhesion. The ala of the nose may thus be joined to the septum in consequence of ulceration. Any such impediment to respiration and speech can perhaps be overcome by dilatation with tents, gradually increased in size; or it will be remediable by incision, followed by the use of tents, in the nostrU. Rhinoscopy, or the visual examination of the nasal fossae, is neces- sary, in order to gain an accurate knowledge and diagnosis of many diseases to which these cavities are liable, and for the effectual applica- tion of topical remedies. Anterior rhinoscopy, or inspection through the anterior nares, re- quires some form of instrument for enlarging the aperture of tly3 nostril, the removal of any discharge which might obscure the view, and a good light directed into the nasal cavities. The patient should sit facing the light, with his head well thrown back, while the Surgeon