632 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. In short, alkalescence of the urine and increase in the total amount ot phosphates have no relation of any kind to each other. They are quite distinct, and, indeed, rather opposite states. Microscopical Oharacters.—Supposing alkalinity of the urine be due to fixed alkali—as potash or soda—the phosphate of lime and the phosphate of magnesia are immediately deposited, appearing as a 'white sand." Submitted to microscopic examination, these salts are seen to consist of amorphous particles, or small round globules, and, occasionally only, prismatic crystals with oblique or dihedral summits. According to Hassall's observations,* crystallized phosphate of lime is common, much more so indeed than amorphous phosphate, which he regards as unusual. This white deposit and coexisting alkaline condition of the urine occur whenever an excess of fixed alkali, or, what is equivalent, a deficient proportion of acid, is taken in the food. The urine is secreted alkaline, and deposits its earthy phosphates in greater or less abundance, according to the quantity of lime and magnesia present. Not to be misled by an alkaline condition of the urine from fixed alkali, it is most important to know and remember that the acidity of healthy urine varies considerably during the diurnal period. Accord- ing to the observations of Dr. Bence Jones, confirmed by those of Dr. W. Roberts, it is inversely to the acidity of the stomach. During digestion, when some acid—probably the hydrochloric—is being secreted by the stomach, an equivalent amount of soda or potash, previously in combination, must remain as free alkali in the blood, rendering it pro- portionately more and more alkaline. Accordingly, the urine becomes less and less acid, and perhaps eventually decidedly alkaline. When acid ceases to flow into the stomach, and any superfluous portion which had been secreted is re-absorbed, the blood regains its former average degree of alkalescence; the urine also is secreted less and less alkalescent, and becoming acid, its acidity rises until the next meal, when the highest degree of acidity is attained. If no food be taken, this condition of urine remains stationary for about twelve hours; immediately after a meal, its acidity again falls, and gradually ap- proaches an alkaline reaction.f Examined at such time, alkalinity of urine might inadvertently be regarded as a morbid condition; but examination of another and another sample excreted some time after a meal, when the process of digestion is completed, corrects this sus- picion ; the urine thenceforth is found more and more acid prior to the next meal, when the alkaline retrogression supervenes. This alternation of an alkalescent state of the urine during diges- tion, and restoration of acidity on completion of digestion, invalidates the result of any one examination of the urine. A mixed sample of the whole amount of urine excreted during the twenty-four hours will give its average condition. If volatile alkali—as carbonate of ammonia—be the occasion of alkaline urine, then the deposit consists of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, together with some phosphate of lime ; the former appear- ing in the form of transparent prismatic crystals, or of foliaceous, * Lancet, p. 850, vol. i.; and " Med.-Chir. Trans.," vol. xxxvi. t See adverse observations by Dr. Julius Vogel; " A Guide to the Analysis of the Urine," bv G. Neubaner and J. Vogel. 4th ed. Translated for New Syd. Soc. by W. A. Markham, 1863, p. 296.