HERNIA. 477 or Truss. The constant wearing of such an appliance may, perhaps, lead to obliteration of the neck of the sac, and a radical cure. Until a proper truss can be obtained, a pad or compress should be aiaplied, and retained in position by a bandage; the spica-bandage being adapted for inguinal or femoral hernige. Tams.—Eeduction is effected by placing the patient in the recum- bent position, relaxing the abdominal muscles by bending the thigh upon the abdomen, and then gently compressing the tumour with the fingers, back in the direction of protrusion. Sometimes, it has been recommended to empty the neck of the tumour downwards, by com- pressing this part between the finger and thumb, and then endeavour- ino- to retarn the diminished neck through the ring. This method may be more practicable in an inguinal hernia than with the deeper neck of a femoral hernia. Inversion of the patient has sometimes been practised, in order that the force of gravity may aid the pressure of taxis, when that alone has failed. But no advantage has thus been gained. Truss.—The qualities of a Truss should be estimated by its light- ness, firmness, elasticity, and adaptation to the configuration of the wearer, with suflficient strength of spring to prevent the escape of the rupture from the abdomen. The instrument consists of a pad or cushion attached to a metallic spring, with straps so arranged that its movements during the varied postures of the body may be restrained. Bearing in mind these essential elements of truss-construction, a detailed description of the various forms of Trusses employed for the Fig. 780. diiierent situations of hernial pro- trusion will be far better under- stood in connection with Special Hernias. The circular spring truss is, generally, the most suitable form. The names of trusses, more or less in common use, are these:— Salmon and Ody's self-adjusting truss, which has a pad revolving on a ball and socket; the Maidstone truss, with a sliding pad; Edward's truss, with a revolving and sliding pad; Adams's graduated pressure truss; Arnott's graduated pres- sure truss; Cole's truss, with a spiral spring acting on the pad; Tod's truss, affording more effec- tual compression at the internal abdominal ring; Newson's wire truss, affording more effectual se- curity against displacement; Egg's truss, which requires no fastening; the Moc-Main lever truss; the Tail-padded truss ; the Horseshoe- pad truss; and Bourjeaud's elastic india-rubber belt and pad, which may be more conveniently used for children. The measurements necessary to insure a properly fitting truss are