SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. for so long been prevalent amongst civilized people, 'there is little room for doubt that it has become more so in the last three or our generations. With no exception, it commences on the exterior of the tooth and proceeds mwards; there is never a lesion of the dentine without a perforation m the enamel leading down to it. This perforation in the enamel may be a natural defect, or may be the result of caries; but When once the dentine is reached, the progress of disease is more rapid, and it spreads laterally, so that a large cavity in the dentine may be approached through quite a small perforation in the enamel. In dental caries the lime salts are dissolved and the dental tissues thereby rendered soft. This may be effected by almost any acid; and by the use of particular acids the phenomena of caries may be pretty closely imitated out of the mouth. All the destructive process is a purely chemical one, and the vital powers of the tooth come into play solely m the attempt to bar out the mischief in a manner to bepresentlv described. The acids which, in actual experiments, best reproduce the appear- ances of dental caries, are just those which may easily be produced in the mouth by the fermentation of saccharine and other matters, such as mahc, citric, acetic, and propionic acids. For the development of such bodies time is necessary; the morsel of food or mucus must have lain undisturbed in some cranny till the change was completed, and hence it IS that perfect cleanliness is the best possible preventive of decay, and that a tooth isolated from its fellows comparatively seldom is attacked. Anything which vitiates the secretions of the mouth, increasing the quantity of viscid mucus or decreasing the secretion of limpid saliva, thus tends to the development of caries; hence its prevalence in dyspeptics and in those who have recently suffered from acute disease. But, although early loss of the teeth is often indicative of imperfect health, very extensive caries may be sometimes met with in persons who present no other indication of departure from the standard of per- fect health and strenofth. Caries is especially prone to occur where there is any fissure or pit in the enamel; it occurs with great frequency also upon the surfaces of contact, when teeth are unduly crowded, probably because the enamel at such points gets injured during the slight movements of the tooth in mastication. The progress of the mischief is at first comparatively slow, but when once a cavity has been established in which foreign matters can lodge, it becomes far more rapid. At first, Httle or no pain is felt, except the cavity be in such a position as to be frequently touched in mastication or in cleaning the teeth; but as the mischief approaches more nearly to the central pulp-chamber, there is at first tenderness to change of temperature, and then slight aching. If nothing is done for it, the softening extends into the pulp- chamber, exposing the nerve, which itself becomes diseased, and may or may not give rise to violent toothache. Eventually the nerve dies (either suddenly in mass, or wastes away by suppuration upon the surface exposed), and an alveolar abscess probably ensues. The greater part of the time of the dental Surgeon is occupied in arresting the ravages of caries by filling teeth, but it would be out of place to describe in these pages the details of this operation.