404 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 735.* and persistently, in a particular spot without spinal disease, as in somp cases of hysteria. Blgidlty of the spine is, however, an equallv earlv and exact sign with falling weakness and angular deformity It L readily perceived by desiring the patient to stoop and raise himself alternately, or by then placing the hand on the suspected vertebrae • the spinous processes will be seen and felt to move unitedly as a con' nected mass. This loss of separate mobility is said to arise from the adhesive solidiEcation around the arches of the vertebrse, forming a compensatory support, while the bodies are destroyed by carious disintegration. Symptoms referable to the spinal cord supervene ; shooting pains extend round the trunk or down the limbs ; and the patient has a tottering, sprawling gait, with spasmodic affections of the muscles of the lower extremities, or relaxation of the sphincter ani, retention of urine, or other paralytic symptoms. The angu- lar deformity of the spine has now be- come well marked, and is rendered more conspicuous by wasting of the muscles in the trough on either side of the spinal column. The excurved ridge of trans- verse processes stands out like a keel (Fig. J^35), with a serrated edge, the tubercle of each process being distinctly visible. The transverse and oblique processes can also be distinguished. Spinal 7i?/si{erm—occasionally resembling disease of the spine, with regard to the pain, as above noticed—may generally be diagnosed by certain differential characters. The pain is severe, but superficial, and not limited to one portion of the spine; aggravated by gentle pressure on the skin, rather than by deeper pressure on the bony processes, this pain is apt to shift its position, from the dorsal to the lumbar region, or up to^ the neck.^ With this spinal condition, paralytic symptoms are sometimes associated; loss of power in the lower extremities or para- plegia, and difficulty of, not in, voiding the urine. But the constitu- tional condition remains good, or unlike that which accompanies paralysis from disease or injury of the spine. The sex of the patient— a female ; the age—probably youth; and possibly some uterine disorder —not disease, may supply additional diagnostic distinctions. Pus forms in connection with caries of the vertebra; at a more or less early period, and more or less abundantly, in proportion to the tuberculous character of the disease. The pain and paralytic symp- toms—referable to the spinal cord—are relieved for a while, by suppuration. But it is only as a presenting abscess that the for- mation of matter becomes clearly available as a symptom of disease of the spine. This event—the appearance of an abscess—will depend on the progress of spinal disease, as described in connection with its course. Causes.—The scrofulous constitution is probably always predomi- nantly influential as a predisposing cause, leading to a deposit of tuber- culous matter in the bodies of the vertebra3, Avhich seems to be the " Koj al Free Hosintal, (Author.)