CONDITIONS OF HIP-JOINT DISEASE FOR EXCISION. 33 life, that the results of excision must be compared and its relative value estimated. Pending this clinical inquiry, we may approach the question from our present knowledge of pathology. "What, then, are the changes which the joint and constitution undergo in the course of natural cure by anchylosis ? In the joint there is a twofold process of destruction and reparation. A piecemeal or molecular excision, so to speak, is constantly progressing, apparently by absorption and certainly by the draining away of debris of bone in the discharge, until two healthy opposed surfaces are reached, so that union may at length be effected. This natural cure of joint-disease entails a protracted period of recovery, extending even to many years, as compared with that of weeks or months required for recovery after excision. During this ordeal the constitutional vigour is reduced, subsequently leaving the patient stamped with the aspect of suffering in former years. Occurring also, as it often does, during the growing period of life, the reserve-power, which should have been gained to meet the exigencies of after-life, is used up prematurely by incessant demand in the long process of reparative anchylosis. Persons who have undergone the natural cure of diseased hip-joint, for example, may be seen hobbling about the streets, being easily recognized by the characteristic gait of old-standing hip disease, and by their sallow and prematurely aged appearance. This constitutional decrepitude may possibly be averted by a remarkable acceleration of the excisional part of the process. In a case represented by specimen No. 7 of the hip- joint series, an eminent Surgeon differed with myself and others respecting its diagnosis; nature subsequently undertook the operation of excision en masse, for she severed and discharged the greater portion of the head of the femur through one of the fistulous tracks. This natural excision of a joint will be singularly suggestive to operative excisionists, and it should be equally admonitory to those Surgeons who blindly oppose the operation. Twenty-one cases have been col- lected by Dr. Hodges, in which spontaneous separation of the head of the femur having taken place, it was removed by operation, and with five fatal results. The Conditions of Hip-joint Disease appropriate for Bxcision.—It was formerly held, and may still be maintained by some Surgeons, that Excision of the hip-joint for disease should be resorted to only in the following conditions—constitutional and local :— (1.) Only in the last stage of the disease, or of constitutional endurance. . (2-) Only when the extent of disease is limited, the acetabulum bemg free from disease, and the amount of pelvic disease trivial. (3.) Only when the head of the femur is dislocated. The reverse of these rules or nearly so may be partly gathered from my cases, and can, I believe, be justiBed by accumulated experience drawn from the results of a large but varying number of cases, with regard to each such rule in question. Of the three conditions laid down respecting Excision of the Joints m general, the first only applies to the hip-joint. (1.) Destruction of the articular cartilages, without the super- iSron Tre'onT; f^^^.j^^^J operkve interference'by advZpd condition will probably not then have advanced to hectic and emaciation. But the state of the general health