800 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. margins around tlie circular incision. If, after snipping up the mucous sheath, the flaps are found to be thickened, or the seat of warty- vegetations, such membrane had better be clipped off on either side •with the scissors. In congenital phimosis sometimes, adhesions between the prepuce and glans require to be dissected up; or a quantity of white epithelial matter may have accumulated as a cake around the glans, and this must be gently scraped off. Of the two operations—slitting, and circumcision, of the prepuce— the latter procedure is more generally applicable, as giving the cleanest result, and it is absolutely necessary when the prepuce is in a diseased state. After either operation, care should be taken that the urine does not come in contact with the wound. Hence it has been suggested that the patient should micturate with his penis dipped in a bowl of tepid water. Usually, after a few days, the line of incision will - have healed. Paraphimosis.—In this—the opposite condition to phimosis—the prepuce is in a forcibly retracted state behind the corona glandis, whereby the glans cannot be covered. The constricting preputial orifice soon becomes the source of strangulation; resulting in swelling of the prepuce, which encloses and buries the seat of stricture in a deep furrow, with a roll or collar of the swollen prepuce in front and behind ; congestion and swelling of the glans are superadded; and thus the reduction is rendered proportionately difficult or impossible. Most severe pain attends this state, increasing to torture ; and ulcera- tion and extensive sloughing are apt to follow. Paraphimosis occurs most commonly in boys; or in adults, who, having naturally a narrow preputial orifice, or tendency to phimosis, happen to have allowed the prepuce to remain drawn back for a while. A diseased and indurated state of the prepuce, when retracted, will also tend to induce constriction ; and paraphimosis not unfrequently arises in this way from chancre. Treatment—Beduction should be effected without_ delay. Any cold or astringent applications are of little avail, the source of constriction and strangulation still remaining. Chloro- form may sometimes be administered, as the reduction by manipulative compres- sion is necessarily painful, and of some duration. Then the Surgeon takes the body of the penis between his forefingers, just behind the swollen prepuce; he com- presses and pushes back the glans with his thumbs, at the same time drawing the prepuce forwards, which slowly rolls over the glans as this disappears. (Fig. 939.) There will still be a tendency to retraction, so that a little continued com- pression of the whole end of the organ, for a minute or two, may be advisable. In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, this method of treatment will prove successful. When reduction cannot be effected by this procedure, after fair