156 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. excited state of the cerebral circulation. The second stage presents a singular contrast; drowsiness, stupor, and coma, with stertorous breathing, a slow, labouring pulse, and dilated state of the pupils, together indicate that effusion has supervened, and compression of the brain; which may be attended with paralysis, convulsive twitchings of the voluntary muscles, and relaxation of the sphincters. Rigors announce suppuration. " The slow ' cerebral pulse ' is generally associated with good arterial tone, and is non-dicrotic, the arteries Fig, goo.* being contracted rather than relaxed. The systole is of normal length; it is the diastole that is prolonered." (Fie. 600.) _ f S \ S (3.) Ptjcemia, consequent on frac- ture of the skull, is mostly connected with inflammation and suppuration of the diploe, implicating some of the numerous and large venous sinuses in the bone. (4.) Necrosis and exfoliation not unfrequently result from gunshot fracture, affecting the outer table alone, or involving the whole thick- ness of the skull, and even extensive portions of bone have been detached. Treatment.—Fractures of the skull assume importance, wholly in their relation to brain-symptoms ; whether by the concomitant cerebral concussion, or, by the supervention of compression, owing to intra- cranial extravasation of blood, or to inflammation, leading to effusion and suppuration. Concussion is naturally followed by reaction; and although, patho- logically speaking, there may be an interval, of however short duration, between the occurrence of fi'acture with concussion, and the super- vention of extravasation, yet the insensibility arising from the former state often merges into that of the latter. In practice, therefore, the Surgeon cannot be too cautious not to provoke extravasation, by the injudicious use of stimulants. Warmth to the surface, by enveloping the patient in blankets, with bottles of hot water to the feet, and in the axillee, will prove sufficient; except in cases of extreme depres- sion of the circulation. Then, watching the restoration of the pulse, attention should be directed to the prevention of extravasation, by the prompt adoption of repressive measures. It will be better to err on the safe side of early interference. The patient's head should be shaved and elevated ; and the circulation reduced by the application of an ice- bag to the head, coupled with the depletory action of purgatives. I • believe an enema of turpentine and gruel to be most efficacious; acting partly as a derivative from the brain. Blood-letting should be had recourse to as the pulse rises toivards high reaction, with the view of keeping the circulation in check, but not so as to throw the patient back into a state of depression. Extreme depression of the circulation is succeeded by extreme reaction ; and hence the propriety of very cautipus administration of stimulants, and timely recourse to blood-letting; either measure being indicated and regulated by the state of the pulse. Venesection will make a more decided impression on the general circulation, than cupping on the nape of the neck. * I'ul&c after injury to the head ; 48 per minute. By Dr. MaLomod.