819 HJ3MAT0CELE. specimens, but whicli are seldom met with in practice. Thus, in one case, the cord was the seat of a medullary cancer (Fig. 952) ; in another case, a fatty tumour was found in the cord (Eoy OoU Sure' Mus 2461). \ J ■ &■ ; HEMATOCELE.—By hematocele is meant an effusion of blood into the tunica vaginalis; or in a cyst connected with the testicle or cord encysted heematocele. The enclosed blood varies in quantity and condition. In the latter respect, the blood may be a sanguineo-serous fluid, or pure blood. It may be clotted, mingled with fluid, or become uniformly coagulated and laminated in layers, as in an aneurismal sac. Or, the coagula have undergone various states of decolourization and disintegration. The containing tunic or cyst usually becomes thickened, perhaps to a con- FiQ. 952.* Fig. 953.t siderable extent, amounting even to an inch in thickness, and involving the surrounding cellular texture; as the result of inflammation induced by the presence of effused blood. In hcematocele of the tunica vaginalis (Fig 953), this thickening involves also the tunica albuginea, but not the substance of the testicle, which remains healthy; although atro- phied from constant pressure by the distended sac, or by the con- traction of its own thickened tunic. Lymph is sometimes effused as a product of inflammation, on the inner surface of the tunica vaginalis, there being mingled with the blood. The cause of Heematocele is traumatic; a blow or squeeze of the testicle ; a strain, as affecting the cord; or other mode of violence. In hjBmatocele of the tunica vaginalis, the source of the blood is some rup- tured vein in the tunic, or a small rent in this membrane, or it may be lobnlnfj'n?°ii- ^"Tf" ^us., 2463. Medullary tumour of the 'spermatic cord; lobulated, of an ovoid form, and nearly six inches Ion<?. The substanop of thia mass had the usual soft and highly vascular character of encephaloid cancer and he section (on the other side, not seen) shows a locular fibrous matrix wfth con- tained cancer-substance. The vessels of the spermatic cord are spread out over the tumour. The testicle below is healthy. (Sir A. Cooper ) t St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., EE. 84. Hajmatopplo • t- which is distended with^ibrinous coagulum; t^tTt :ll^iJ^t^elfr^i indura ed, in some parts having a cartilaginous appearance. Thftesticle is situated at the lower and posterior part of the tumour, and apparently healthy