SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. abscess and periostitis of the general periosteum. Its treatment does not call for any special notice here, except tliat it should always be borne in mind that a great amount of repair is effected, and that teeth apparently hopelessly loose will oftentimes becomes firmly fixed and again useful after the sequestrum has been removed and bone formed ; so that teeth should only be removed if their whole sockets, and not only one side of them, are involved in the sequestrum, or if they have been the originators of the mischief. An exceedingly interesting specinien exists in the Museum of the Bellevue Hospital, New Tork, in which the entire lower jaw was reformed after necrosis and its removal. Abscesses originating about teeth may burrow, reaching down the neck as far as the clavicle, and below it. Death has resulted from alveolar abscess and its sequelae in a good many recorded cases; one of the most remarkable being one of Mr. Howse's (Med. Times, 1876), in which suppuration in inferior dental canal, acute periostitis of posterior half of lower jaw, and extension of inflammation into the orbit via the pterygo-maxillary fissure, resulted in a slow pyasmia. In its chronic stage, the duration of the disease was five weeks ; in the acute, nine days. Dr. Harrison Allen, of Philadelphia, saw a case in which, as a sequence of alveolar abscess about a lower wisdom tooth, ostitis and periostitis of the neighbouring bone ensued ; abscess beneath the mylo- hyoid occurred, the pus gravitating as far as the hyoid bone, and creep- ing up on the outside of the jaw along the line of the facial artery. After four days the patient died from suffocation, due to enormous cedema of the one side of the tongue and associated parts. Mr. Pollock (" Trans. Odont. Society," 1876) relates a case in which he was driven to perform tracheotomy in consequence of the swelHng produced by an abscessed tooth. Exostosis.—The roots of teeth are very liable to become affected by exostosis; that is to say, by an undue and localized deposition of cementum, which leads to nodular enlargements of the ends of the root, or to irregular but smooth deposits upon its sides. Exostosis is a frequent result of long-continued periostitis about a dead tooth, which has never gone so far as suppuration; but it is also pretty frequent, especially after middle life, in teeth the crowns of which are perfectly healthy. A small, and sometimes even a large, amount of exostosis may exist without causing the smallest inconvenience; on the other hand, it sometimes causes very severe neuralgia, and this under con- ditions not visibly different from those in which it does not do so. Its existence in teeth which are sound is exceedingly difficult tp diagnose. Some degree of tenderness to rough handling or to a blow, or when it is bitten upon hard, will often be all that is to be found, even in neuralgic cases. The patient's age, the absence of all other lesions, the connection of the teeth with the neuralgia having been indicated (cf. page 828) by various signs, and above all the occur- rence of exostosis in other sound teeth which may have previously been extracted, will point to the probability of its existence. Uneasy sensations often exist in and about the particular tooth, sometimes tenderness to changes of temperature, but the diagnosis is very uncertain. This much may be said, however, that if, in a person past middle life, neuralgia can be traced to a sound tooth which is found after extrac-