649 URINARY DISEASES AND THEIR TREATMENT. acids are efficacioas, particularly hydrochloric and nifcro-mnriatic acids, in conjunction with bitters. They were recommended by Dr. Prout to bo taken daily for about a month, or until lithic acid or lithates re- appeared in the urino. "By adopting," said he, "such a course of acids t-liree or four times in the year, and by a carefully regulated diet, I have seen this diathesis gradually subdued, and at length removed altogether." Irritability of the bladder, in connection therewith, is not unfrequently subdued by the compound tincture of camphor; indeed, Dr. Bence Jones speaks of this remedy as having thus proved " very useful." The association of oxalate of lime with uric acid, in the urine, requires the anomalous administration of both acids and alkalies. In ,such cases, supposing the deposit of oxalate to be considerable and per- sistent, Dr. Hassall suggests that it should be treated in the first instance. If the uric acid deposit be constant and in large quantity, alkaHes and acids may sometimes be administered with advantage alternately. Preventive Treatment will consist in the avoidance of those articles of food which are apt to produce or actually contain oxaHc acid, and in the observance of the suitable diet. Conjointly, the precautionary use of the appropriate medicinal measures, occasionally. Sidpluric Acid—Treatment.—Animal and vegetable food having, apparently, equal influence in producing an excess of sulphates in the urme, no distinction can be drawn favourable to either kind of diet, as a remedial agent. But as sulphur is disengaged by the destructive metamorphosis of the nitrogenous tissues chiefly, and subsequently, by oxidation, converted into sulphuric acid, active exercise, which in- creases both these changes, is contra-indicated. Repose, and the requisite remedial measures for subduing febrile excitement, are, perhaps, the general indications to be fulfilled. Eliminative treatment would, of course, be curative, by removing the excess of sulphuric acid from the system; but the present state of knowledge in this respect is here, as with regard to other blood-conditions, too unsettled for practical purposes. Preventive Treatment will consist in the anticipation and avoidance of the causative conditions above alluded to. Hippuric Acid^Treatment.—This highly carbonaceous acid is pro- educed in excess—either by vegetable food, itself too rich in carbon, or by medicine containing benzoic acid ; perhaps also by the destructive metamorphosis, of nitrogenous tissue, in secondary mal-assimilation ; or by defective elimination of carbon through the hver, lungs, or skin. But httle is known respecting remedial measures. The substitution ot nitrogenous food, increased exercise, and the administration of medicines to increase the secretion of bile and sweat, would seem to be the most hopeful. Preventive Treatment is guided by similar considerations Lactic Actd—Treatment.—The pathological origin of this acid in excess, IS obscure. Food abounding with lactic acid, introduced bv primary assimilation, is undoubtedly one source. Of such kinds of tood are-milk and vegetables which have become sour, and sugar or amylaceous food which may be converted into lactic acid. But an ^J^o^Zu ^ V'''''^ '^"^^ the destructive metamorphosis of muscular tissue,-in secondary mal-assimilation;