SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 106 amputation. Thus, in the American War, the percentage of mortality rose as follows :—Fingers and hands, 1-5 ; wrist, 5-5; forearm, 16-.5 ; arm, 21 ; shoulder, 39 ; partial of foot, 9 ; ankle-joint, 13 ; leg, 2G ; knee, 65 ; thigh, 64; and hip, 85. Some relation subsists between the proximity to the trunk and the causes of death from amputation. Thus, the removal of a limb high up is more fatal from shock, or from hismori-hage, primary or secondary. (d.) The structure of the bone sawn through, when the medullary canal is opened, seems to have some degree of unfavourable or even fatal influence ; owing to the liability of consecutive suppurative in- flammation of the medullary membrane,—osteo-myelitis, and pya3mia. But the importance of this condition relatively to the mortality after amputation, is very undetermined. Paeticulae Amputations. Amputations op the Uppee Exteemitt.—The Hand. (Fig. 540.)— The Fingers, at their Phalangeal Articulations, not unfrequently require amputation for injury or disease, as caries resulting from whitlow. This operation is very simple. The hand being held prone, Fig. 540.* Fig. 541. and the fingers on either side of the affected one drawn towards the palm by an assistant, the operator lays hold of the end of the finger, and bending it slightly, he applies a narrow-bladed bistoury or scalpel to one side of the joint, opposite the articulation (Fig. 541), and carry- ing it over to the opposite side, makes a slightly convex incision, directed downwards; then, running the knife across and through the joint, bending it as needs be, the blade is turned flat under the phalanx, and a semilunar flap made of sufiicient length to cover the extremity of the bone and unite with the dorsal incision. Another and reverse mode of doing this operation is—by placing the hand in the supine position, and with the finger extended, to transfix on the palmat aspect of the joint, and carrying the blade flat on the bone, cut a semilunar flap of suflBcient length ; then, passing the knife across and through the joint, to divide the skin almost transversely in bringing it to the surface. * Diagram showing lines of incision from points of bone, in—1, amputation of phalanx of finger; 2, finger; 3, thumb; 4, little finger; 5, at wrist-joint.