SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 280 the nostril opposite to tlie entering stream. Botli nasal cavities are thus washed by a continuous current. The fluid is prevented from running down into the pharynx by the soft palate; which, according to Weber's observations, effectually closes the posterior nares, as the stream turns round the septum, while the patient breathes entirely through the mouth. To inspect the nasal cavities, sunlight is far better than any artificial light, whether from an ordinary lamp, or as the lime-light. The illumination may be concentrated by using a polished reflector, or an ordinary lens. Posterior rMnoscopy, or inspection through the posterior nares, is accomplished in the same manner as laryngoscopic examination. The patient sitting, his head erect and mouth open, the tongue is gently retracted with a depressor, and the laryngoscope-mirror, set in a long handle bent at the distal end, is then warmed and passed on one side of the uvula, under the arch of the palate, when its reflecting surface is directed upwards and forwards towards the posterior nares. Light is thrown upon the mirror as in laryngoscopy. Thus the posterior nares may be brought into view; showing the middle and inferior spongy bones, and corresponding meatuses, with the median septam of the nares; the openings of the Eustachian tubes, the roof of the pharynx above, the posterior surface of the velum palati below. But the patient must breathe easily, otherwise the soft palate rises and conceals these parts; and in using the mirror, it should be kept free of the palate and uvula, which, when touched, are disposed to contract, and thus interrupt the examination. Previous gargling with cold water may reduce the irritability of the soft parts. Plastic Surgery of the JSTose—Rhinoplastic Operations.—Plastic or Reparative Surgery comprises all those Surgical operations which are designed and performed for the repair of deficiencies of structure, —whether resulting from injury, disease, or malformation. It thus represents a large division of Operative Surgery, contrasting with that which pertains to Operations for the removal of parts, as by Excision and Amputation. Plastic Surgery is well illustrated by rhinoplastic operations; the repair of structural deficiencies in the nose, as the result of wounds, having almost given rise to all similar operations in respect to other organs; as principally exemplified by the operations for hare-lip and cleft palate, certain diseases of the eyelids, and of the organs of genera- tion, Rhinoplastic operations are sometimes designated Tagliacotian operations, in honour of their originator, Gasparo Tagliacozzi, a cele- brated Italian physician who flourished in Bologna, in the latter part of the sixteenth century. After his death, a marble statue was erected to his memory in the anatomical theatre at Bologna, with this insignia of his art—a nose—in his hand. In Italy, and in India, not to mention other countries, mutilation by cutting off the nose has been a common practice, as a punishment for criminals, or for the indulgence of savage brutality towards prisoners of war. Operations of nose-making may therefore have been performed at much earlier periods ; and, indeed, some such surgical procedures are noticed by Celsus and Galen. The entire nose, or a portion only, may require to be re-made; in consequence of destruction by disease or injury, or owing to congenital malformation. (1.) Nose.—Restoration of the entire nose may be accomplished by