123 AMPUTATION AT THE KNEE-JOINT. one period of operation the mortality being 62 per cent., and at the other or secondary period amounting to 66 per cent. Proximity to the knee-joint increases the risk of amputation. Amputation at the Knee-joint.—Two methods of performing this operation are occasionally practised; by a short anterior and long pos- terior flap, or by a long anterior and short posterior flap. Operation by a short anterior and long posterior flap.—A transverse or slightly curved incision is made across the knee-joint, above the patella, from condyle to condyle of the femur; the _ extensor tendon, lateral Ugaments, and crucial ligaments are successively divided, and the joint fairly opened; the knife is inserted behind the tibia, a long posterior flap cut down- wards and backwards from the upper part of the calf of the leg, and the leg removed. (Fig. 680.) The articular sur- face of the femur is then sawn off, the popliteal artery tied or twisted securely, and the flaps brought together with sutures. The stump made by this amputation may be most excellent, and as a permanent re- sult. It was so in a case, after this mode of operation, by Sir W. Fergusson, in 1845. Since that time, the man has repeatedly walked forty miles a day, with a very indifferently made artificial leg; and on one occasion, a hundred and twenty miles in three days, without the slightest damage to the stump. Operation by a long anterior and short posterior flap.—An incision is made from the lower margin of one condyle to the other, extending below the patella to a length of five inches across the tibia. The ligamentum patellas must then be divided, and the flap of integument, including the patella, reflected; the lateral and crucial ligaments having been divided, the knife is passed behind the tibia, and a short abrupt flap cut outwards. The operation is then completed as before. The patella had better be left, for protection of the stump ; but the cartilaginous surface of the condyles may be advantageously sawn off. This mode of amputation at the knee-joint is now generally preferred to that by the short anterior flap. Amputation at the knee-joint was originally advocated by Petit, Brasdor, and Houi, and revived by Yelpeau in 1830, but subsequently it attracted little attention. In 1857 Mr. Samuel Lane successfully amputated at the knee-joint, and has since repeated the operation in several cases; Mr. George Pollock also has operated in eight cases, and I have performed this amputation on six occasions. SuPRA-cONDYLOiD Amputation may be performed in like manner as the operation at the knee-joint, only the incisions are placed propor- tionately higher up. The cartilaginous surface of the patella may be removed, and the bone brought down into contact with the end of the femur.