368 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. attention being directed to or diverted from the complaint • the other symptoms—hunger, emaciation and loss of strength—are far less nro rounced, and, indeed, are often altogether absent. The disease occar^ most frequently in hysterical females. The introduction of a bougie is at hrst resisted, but the stricture soon yields under gentle pressure A pathognomonic symptom is the sudden ejection of the bolus during the act of swallowing; the morsel passes down for a certain distance without stoppage, and is then forcibly expelled from the mouth with a sudden jerk. Dysphagia may be unconnected with stricture, but dependent on some extrinsic cause or causes which diminish the calibre of the gullet by compression or obstruction. Such are—tumours connected with the pharynx; morbid conditions of the larynx, e.g. oedema; tumours in the neck ; aneurism of the aorta or of the innominate artery ; intra,- thoracic tumours ; dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle back- wards; impaction of a foreign body in the gullet. The diagnostic differences of these rarious conditions may be gathered from other sections of this work. Treatment.—Organic stricture, of whatever kind, is incurable. Dila- tation, by means of bougies increasing in size, may afford partial and temporary relief. But the risk of perforating the oesophagus should be remembered, a risk proportionate to the structural disorganization and contraction of the passage. This fatal misadventure has happened in the hands of the most skilful Surgeons. The instrument has been known to find its way into the mediastinum, into the cavity of the pleura, or into that of the pericardium. The principal use of a bougie is to determine the existence of a stricture, its situation and nature, and thus to complete the diagnosis of this affection—due caution being observed in passing the instrument. Nutritive enemata will tend to support the strength and prolong life; while washing out the mouth with whatever fluid is most relished, and swallowing perhaps a little of it from time to time, proves an agree- able occupation to the patient. In cancerous stricture, laudanum or other anodynes, administered in the enemata, will assuage the sufferings of this condition. Spasmodic stricture is sometimes amenable to the general consti- tutional treatment of hysteria. At the Hospital for IDiseases of the Throat, valerianate of zinc is largely employed in these cases. The most effective agent, however, is galvanism, applied directly to the interior of the gullet by means of my oesophageal electrode. The con- stant current must be employed, by the aid of a battery containing about twenty cells. The electrode should be passed down as far as the seat of apparent stricture, and held in position for a few seconds. At first only five cells should be used, but the number may be increased gradually up to twenty, and the time during which the electrode is held in the oesophagus may also be augmented, according as the patient becomes more tolerant of the remedy. Gastrotomy, or the operation of opening the stomach by an incision through the abdominal walls, has been performed, for the purpose of directly introducing food into the organ, when the oesophagus is impassable. Practised first by Sedillot, and since by Fenger of Copen- hagen, Cooper Forster, and others, it has hitherto always rapidly proved fatal. The first-named authority thus performs this opera-