511 DIAGNOSIS OF INGUINAL HERNIA. ibis way the tumour is distinguished from femoral hernia, which is situated below the ligament, and this band can always be traced alono- the superior border of the tumour. When the hernia has become scrotal, it will have escaped through the external abdominal ring, the outer pillar of which is attached to the spinous process of the pubes. Placing the point of the finger on this process, if the neck of the tumour lies internally—between the finger and the symphysis pubis, the protrusion must have passed through the external abdominal rino-' a demonstration of its being of inguinal origin. A hernial tumour situated to the outer side of the finger, will probably have passed through the crural ring, and thence be a femoral hernia. But, in rare cases, complete inguinal hernia is not scrotal; the protrusion, havino- passed from the inguinal canal, through the external ring, descends downwards and turns outwards into the bend of the thigh—appearing, in situation, as if a femoral hernia. This may be owing to a deficiency in the external pillar of the ring, or of the anterior wall of the canal, whereby the inguinal protrusion may more nearly resemble a femoral hernia. But the neck of the tumour, at the hernial aperture or in- ternal ring, is still always above Poupart's ligament. Chronic tumours in the inguinal region and scrotum respectively, may, with regard to their diagnosis from inguino-scrotal hernia, be divided into two classes—reducible and irreducible tumours. ' Eeclucible tumours comprise—(1) inguinal hernia—also congenital, and infantile or encysted; (2) hydrocele of the vaginal process°of the peritoneum ; (3) hydrocele of the funicular portion of the same process ; (4) varicocele of the spermatic veins ; (5) abscess descending throucrh the inguinal canal. Irreducible tumours may be either fluid or solid, or mixed solid ^^'o; 1 ^""^^ are—(1) hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis; (2) hematocele m the same sac when first developed- (3) en cysted hydrocele of the epididymis ; (4) hydrocele of the spermatic , sol"^' or solid and fluid, are—(1) diseases of the testis ^a) ot inflammatory origin, (b) specific new growths; (2) unde- scended testis m inguinal canal—also inflamed; (3) old hematocele • i (4) diseases of the spermatic cord ; (5) growths of fat extending from' • the inguinal canal into the scrotum ; (6) diseases of the tissues of the i scrotum. All these diseases, presenting swellings or tumours are . described m other parts of this work; it will here suffice to notice their I points of difPerence from inguino-scrotal hernia, which may be con ' veniently exhibited in a tabular form, taken—with one or two ad . ditions—from Mr. Birkett's treatise. Some of these diseases are, however, of less frequent and even 1 rare occurrence The Surgeon will mostly have to distinguish between 1 ingmno-scrotal hernia and hydrocele-in its various forms, or hrmato ^ cele; orchitis, and perhaps tumours of the testicle, as compared with s scrotal hernia, may also become a question of diagnosis ^^""^"^ ^'^^