782 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEEY. Fia. 925. of a full stream of urine. Hence, the Surgeon sometimes avails him- self of this natural mode of cure, by directing the patient to retain his water as long as possible, and then to compress the urethra with his fingers in front of the calculus when he endeavours to micturate ; the stream of urine, coming out suddenly with a forcible gush, carries before it the stone. The removal of a urethral calculus must, how- ever, generally be effected either by extraction or by incision. When situated in front of the scrotum, the calculus can often be extracted by passing down the urethra a long, slender, urethral forceps (Pig. 925), aided by moderate dilatation ; or, failing thus to remove the stone, it should be pushed back into the perineum, and then removed by incision, any incision of the urethra in front of the scrotum generally resulting in a fistulous opening. A stone lodged in the navi- cular fossa near the meatus, may be eased out by dilatation; or by a slight incision of the orifice with a probe-pointed bistoury, which I disapprove of as liable to induce stricture. When the calculus is situated in the perineal portion of the urethra, or has been pushed back to that part, it should be removed by a clean median incision on a grooved staii—external urethrotomy— at the same time compressing the urethra firmly with the finger behind the stone, lest it accidentally recede into the bladder. If this happens, a long pair of slender forceps can perhaps be introduced and the stone extracted. After the perineal section, there is little risk of urinary extravasation, and less of fistula or of stricture resulting. In the membranous or frostatic portions of the urethra, an impacted calculus may admit of extrac- tion by the median operation of lithotomy. Or, the stone can be pushed back into the bladder, either by means of a large-sized catheter, or by urethral injec- tion. It may then be removed by lithotrity or lateral lithotomy. Foreign bodies of various kinds have been introduced into the urethra by persons, to gratify some morbid curiosity or prurient feel- ing ; and any such body having slipped out of reach, surgical assistance becomes necessary. Thus, a hair-pin has been passed into the urethra, and the ends expanding and sticking in the mucous membrane, they cannot be secured with forceps. But if the pin be compressed through the urethra, with the thumb and finger, a small thin tube may be slid over the ends of the pin, which can then be extracted through the tube. Retention of Urine.—This tei'm is understood to signify an inability, arising from various causes, to pass any urine, or only a very small quantity. It thus differs from the partial retention of urine in en- gorgement of the bladder with occasional overflow, and which is dependent on enlargement of the prostate. Moreover, the one is a recent or acute condition, the other an habitual or chronic condition. The symptoms are not only an absence of micturition, or the escape of urine by drops after much straining and painful effort; but also, as the bladder becomes distended and rises above the pubes, there is