823 VARICOCELE. circumstances will also indicate the propriety of palliative measures, or of having recourse to the radical cure by obliterating the affected veins. Palliative treatment consists in wearing a scrotal suspensory bandage or an elastic bag, to support and slightly compress the en- larged veins; or a well-adjusted truss, with the pad upon the external ring, to prevent any sudden reflux of blood into the veins during exertion. The latter appliance has proved an effectual cure in some instances, which Mr. Curling mentions, after the truss had been worn some months, and in which the testicle, partially atrophied before the treatment began, regained its natural size. But the contrary result may be produced, as in a case related by Pott, where the testicle had shrunk to nothing, while the veins had become enormously enlarged. Certain means have also been tried in accordance with the principle of scrotal support, by lessening the size of the bag. This has been done by drawing a portion of the scrotum through a soft metallic ring covered with wash-leather, or a vulcanized indiarubber ring; a method of treatment originally suggested by Mr. Wormald. Or a portion of the scrotum has been excised with the same object in view ; but this plan is too uncertain, as to its efficacy, to justify its severity as a palliative measure. During any occasional period of pain or tenderness in the affected veins, the recumbent posture and rest, a cold evaporating lotion, and, saline aperients will give relief. Curative treatment.—Obliteration of the enlarged and varicose veins has been attempted by various operative procedures : by com- pression with forceps fixed on the scrotum,—Breschet's method, now, I believe, abandoned as useless; subcutaneous ligature; subcutaneous compression between a pin and wire rolled round it; compression by hare-lip pins and twisted suture, with or without intermediate subcuta- neous section of the veins. The modes of operation most frequently practised are—subcu- taneous ligature, as proposed by Ricord; and compression at two points, with intermediate subcutaneous division, as proposed by Mr. H. Lee. (1.) Ricord's subcutaneous ligature is thus described by Mr. Cur- ling :—The vas deferens being separated from the mass of veins, and the latter being pinched up with a fold of the scrotum, a needle set in a handle, wdth an eye near the point, armed with a double-looped thread, is to be passed beneath them. When the needle has traversed from one side to the other, the loop is to be drawn out, the needle retracted, and the veins let go, the skin alone being now held up. A second needle, similarly armed, is then to be passed through, over the veins, entering at the same aperture by which the first needle was thrust out, and emerging at the same aperture by which it entered. The second loop is next to be drawn out, and the needle withdrawn. The bundle of veins is thus included between two threads, one passing over and the other beneath it. The ends of the thread on each side are then to be passed into the loop of the other, and by drawing these ends in opposite directions, the veins are tied beneath the skin. The vessels become divided, and the ligatures separate from the tenth to the twentieth day. A simple mode of subcutaneous ligature is that performed by Mr.