204 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. of twenty. The constitutional condition is generally weakly, and the subjects anaemic and pale. There may be marks of scrofula. Treatment.—No lowering measures are tolerated. The remedial measures, local and general, so entirely resemble those of Scrofulous Ophthalmia, that any repetition is unnecessary. Chronic Interstitial Keratitis—so named by Mr. Hutchinson—has been shown by him to be a manifestation of inherited constitutional syphilis. Presenting itself in children and young persons from five to eighteen years of age, this form of corneitis may be recognized by the following appearances :—It begins at the centre of one cornea, as a diffused haziness like that of ground glass. Whitish dots soon beset this haze, forming in the very substance .of the cornea. Coalescing, they increase the central opacity. A fine plexus of vessels now over- spreads the cornea, deeply pervading the opaque portion; and especially affecting the upper and central part, rather than the lower half, of the cornea. There is no tendency to ulceration. Subsequently, in about two months or earlier, the other cornea undergoes the same form of opacity and vascularity, in like manner. Diagnosis.—The vascularity will be observed to differ from the leash of vessels in scrofulous ophthalmia, and from the superficial crescentic plexus of ordinary corneitis. Other marks of hereditary constitutional syphilis accompany this affection of the cornea, and particularly a certain characteristic vertical notching of the upper central incisor teeth.* (See Ch. VII., Syphilis, Fig. 79.) The treatment recommended is a combined specific and tonic plan, consisting of mercurials and iodides, supported by tonics and a nutritious diet. Opacities of the Cornea.—These conditions have been noticed inci- dentally as consequences of various affections of, or involving, the cornea. Corneal opacities are of two kinds—simple opacity, resulting from inflammatory disintegration and interstitial deposit—e.g., nebula; and cicatricial opacity, resulting from ulceration, with loss of substance, and cicatrization—e.g., albugo, and leucoma. The former state of opacity may be simple haziness, and comparatively transient; the latter is a more dense, white opacity, and probably permanent. But the prognosis will depend very much on the age of the patient. In infancy and youth, when nutritive changes are most active, cicatrices of even large size diminish both in extent and density, until the cornea becomes almost clear in after-life. Treatment.—Practically, the distinctions adverted to are most impor- tant, simple opacity being curable, cicatricial opacity incurable, by art. Any treatment can only be curative by promoting the molecular changes of absorption and nutrition. To this end, weak stimulant washes to the eye, and a generally tonic and dietetic course of treatment, may contribute. The curative influence of mercurials is doubtful. Ulcers of the Cornea.—The characters of these conditions have been partly described in connection with Purulent and Scrofulous Ophthalmia, and Corneitis. In all cases there is a loss of substance, so that a little pit is formed, the base of which, as well as the cornea surrounding it, is generally cloudy, but occasionally clear, especially in those cases that have been caused by inanition or imperfect nutrition of the body generally. Rheumatic ulcers are usually elongated in form, situated * " Ophthalmic Hospital Reports," vol. i. 1858, aud " Trans. Path. Soc." vol. ix.