352 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. duced by means of a large-sized elastic catheter, or the tube of the stomach-pump, passed through the mouth into the gullet below the opening. If this mode of feeding cause great irritation, nutritive enemata may be resorted to. The food is necessarily liquid, but strong beef-tea, soup, or Liebig's liquor carnis, milk, eggs beat up with brandy or wine, can be thus administered, and the patient's life indefinitely prolonged, until he is able to swallow without assistance. (5.) Inflammation, in the form of bronchitis, will probably be averted by due attention, as ali'cady directed, to the temperature of the atmosphere which the patient breathes through the windpipe aperture; and pneumonia prevented by watchful observation, more especially with regard to any trickling hasmorrhage into this aperture. In the event of either form of inflammation, the treatment accordingly must be conducted on ordinary principles; taking, however, into con- sideration the state of the patient, as reduced by haemorrhage and his depressed mental condition. The wound, in the course of granulation, requires nothing more than water-dressing, or other simple applications. Aerial Fistula sometimes ensues ; the skin having doubled in and become adherent to the edge of the aperture in the air-tube, a jet of air passes and repasses through, with each act of respiration. This happens most frequently in the thyro-hyoid space, Mr. Erichsen has found the following operation successful in closing such a fistula :—The edges of the opening are to be freely pared, and the knife passed under them for some distance to detach them from the subjacent parts, a vertical incision also being made through the lower lip of the opening, splitting it downwards. Two points of suture are then inserted into each side of the horizontal incisions, bringing their edges into contact; but the vertical cut is left free for discharges and mucus to drain away, and for the expired air to escape, lest emphysema occur. Unless this outlet be left, the sutures will burst, and union of the edges be frus- trated. An aerial fistula cannot be safely closed when the larynx above is obstructed, and it may even become necessary to enlarge the open- ing and introduce a silver tube to compensate for the laryngeal obstruction. A Stab in the Throat, involving the trachea, presents no peculiarity from an ordinary cut throat; except the liability to emphysema, by escape of air into the surrounding cellular texture, if the wound be narrow and slanting. Compression, with a pad of lint, weU retained by strips of plaster, will generally succeed in overcoming this diflB.- culty. Foreign Bodies in the Air-passages—Larynx, Trachea, or Brmchi. —Various substances that admit of being swallowed, occasionally pass into the rima glottidis, and thence, perhaps, lower down into the air- passage ; any such body is, however, not swallowed into the glottis, in an effort of deglutition, but inhaled into this opening from the mouth, by a sudden inspiration, in the act of laughing or talking with the substance in the mouth. It is drawn by the current of air between the dilated lips of the glottis. Various substances may thus pass the "wrong way"—a bit of meat, a cherry-stone, a bean,pea, nut-shell, or a tooth, money, a button, a bullet, pill, or pebble, a pin, fish-bone, or piece of stick. The Symptoms are those of suddenly obstructed respiration, and of