171 COMPBESSION OF THE BRAIN. would render it unadvisable to run tlie risk of aggravating such an attack by the act of vomiting. . , . , ^ ■ The causes of compression agree m their general nature; they are .all some source of pressure on the brain. They vary m bemg-a de- wessed fracture, or other impacted foreign body; extravasated blood, or a collection of matter, within the cranium; and thus these causes differ widely in their pathological origin and significance. Two such causes may co-exist, as depressed fracture, with extravasation of blood ; or all may co-exist, as intra-cranial suppuration, with depressed frac- t ture, and extravasation. Besides causes of traumatic origin compres- .sion may result from apoplexy, or the growth of mtra-cramal tumours. ' Gonsequences.-Iniiammation of the brain, or its membranes, is e equally liable to follow, as from concussion, although the cause of compression will affect the probability of this event. Depressed frac- ' ture inevitably leads to inflammation, and intra-cranial suppuration i presupposes it. Death results from continued compression, m a period 1 varying with the degree of pressure, and the functional importance of t the part of the brain affected. _ • n 4.1, A stationary condition of compression remains occasionally; the 1 patient lying comatose for weeks or months, and recovering conscious- ; ness when the compressing cause is removed. A most remarkable case cof this result is recorded by Sir A. Cooper; that of a man whose cere- Ibral functions were entirely suspended for a period of thirteen months, •by a fall on his head from the yardarm of a vessel, producing a .depressed fracture; but on trephining the bone, and thus removing - the cause of compression, consciousness returned immediately after this ' long period of total obHvion—for more than a year. 2^re«^meni.—Obviously, the compressing cause must be removed. ' This implies a different mode of proceeding accordmg to the particular (cause in operation. n % -1-1 j The head should be shaved and carefully examined. (1.) Depressed 1 fracture will probably necessitate the elevation of the depressed portion > of bone, by means of an elevator, or its removal, by trephining. The ( conditions which justify these operations have been already enume- I rated in the rules of Treatment pertaining to Fractures of the Cranium. ' The question of removing a foreign body, as the cause of pressure, may 1 be determined by the same considerations. (2.) Intra-cranial extrava- • sation of hlood can, generally, be treated without recourse to operative ; interference. The compressing cause is the same as that of apoplexy. . Hence, the extravasation of blood maybe arrested and reduced, by cold : applications to the head, and by the depletory action of purgatives. . No form of purgative seems to act so speedily and impressively on the brain, as a turpentine enema; say, an ounce of turpentine to a pint of gruel, the strength which I am in the habit of ordering. Its beneficial influence should be aided by bottles of hot water to the feet. Cupping 1 on the nape of the neck, or even venesection, may be had recourse to, ■ as indicated by the fullness, hardness, and jerking character of the pulse. It would be highly important to know whether a more power- ful derivative action could be established, by means of the suction- apparatus applied to either of the lower limbs ; such as was, I believe, ' originally employed, under other circumstances, by Mr. Jobert. The, < operation of trephining, to relieve compression from extravasated blood, may be a justifiable procedure, when the situation of the injury,