758 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEUY. have been devised, principally by Tiemann. Astringents in the form of powder can bo injected to any particular part of the urethra by means of Mallez's breech-loading metallic tube. ' Bougies, besmeared with an ointment of nitrate of silver, or the balsam of copaiba, may be passed along the urethra; but this mode of making topical applications is not in general use. In old-standing gleet, the introduction of a bougie occasionally, even where no stricture exists, is highly beneficial. It should be of sufficient size to occupy the urethra without distending the passage; be left in for about ten minutes at a time, and be passed twice or thrice a week. Blistering the penis, in obstinate gleet, has found favour with some Surgeons ; the anguentura lyttffi, spread on lint, is wrapped around the body of the organ, and applied for not longer than two hours. The effect is said to be singu- larly curative, when the gleety discharge is uncomplicated by stricture or orchitis. The medicinal treatment of chronic suppurative discharge, and of watery gleet, is best fulfilled by an acid-tonic mixture of cinchona with sulphuric acid ; but towards the close of the case, the sulphate of iron should be given, to repair the an£emic condition. Such treatment as may be suitable in the various other constitutional conditions, must not be overlooked ; as in the scrofulous, rheumatic, or gouty diathesis, on which a gleety discharge may depend. Certain medicinal agents have apparently a specific influence in arresting the discharge, and especially the two renowned specifics—copaiba and cubebs. Some Surgeons urge the employment of these medicines in the acute stage of gonorrhoea. Neither should be administered when it manifestly disagrees with the patient; nor continued on trial beyond a week or ten days, when no beneficial effect has been obtained by that time. Both these specifics are apt to disturb the digestive organs, and produce symptoms of renal irritation ; and copaiba sometimes induces a cutaneous rash, in the form of small red patches, more or less circular, somewhat like nettle-rash. But the various prepa/rations of these medicines are not equally to be , commended. Copaiba may be given in capsule, pill, or draught. The capsule—an envelope or coating of gelatine, containing a small bolus of copaiba—is an elegant and convenient preparation; the envelope dis- guising the nauseous taste and peculiar odour of the balsam. Six or eight capsules may be taken daily. The French dragees are also much used, particularly in America. In the form of a pill, consolidated with magnesia, copaiba sometimes acts more effectually, a drachm being taken thrice daily; or combined with dilute sulphuric acid, fifteen minims, and mucilage in infusion of roses, as a mixture, this medicinal agent is better tolerated by the stomach. Cubebs may agree when copaiba will not. The dose of the powder is a drachm, three times a day. Both specifics are sometimes advantageously taken together, in such proportions as to form the consistence of an electuary; of which a drachm will be the dose, thrice daily. I never find it necessary to prescribe either copaiba or cubebs, and have for some years discarded them. In concluding the treatment of gonorrhoea, hygienic resources may prove singularly beneficial. The tepid or cold sponge-bath, with friction afterwards, sea-bathing, an open-air life, avoiding hoise- exercise, will often succeed in finishing off an otherwise lingering case. Smoking should be prohibited. As any persistent urethral discharge might be contagious, sexual intercourse must be strictly forbidden.