SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEKY. abdoiTr. fT""^^ Bymptoms-a tympanitic condition of tin. abdomen ; the intestmes being almost suddenly distended with gas In the npper part of the dorsal region, the thoracic respiration is f' barrassed or suppressed, by compression of the cord above the ori-tn' s ot the intercostal nerves. At the sixth cervical vertebra CPi^ 7->7\ fracture IS attended with paralysis of the upper extremities ; and abm e 1+ i t ''T'''^^ vertebra, compression of the cord will be instantly latal by asphyxia—the phrenic nerves thus being paralyzed. CaMses.—External violence applied directly, or indirectly, to tlje vertebral column, represents the two modes of fracture-production. 1 blow or fall on the back is one mode of fracture; a fall on the top of the head, or compression of the trunk vertically, as between the b ot a carriage and an archway, is the other, or indirect mode of pr ducmg fracture of the spine. Gunshot injury, as a cause of fractur may be complicated by the lodgment of a foreign body, as a ball portion of clothing. _ Course and Termination.—The effusion resulting from inflammation IS sometimes a further source of pressure on the cord, at a perio 1 subsequent to fracture-displacement and intra-spinal 'hgemorrha-a iied-sores are extremely liable to form over the sacrum or other promi- inent_ points, even when subject only to the pressure of a water-bed • the vitahty of the skin declining in consequence of the paralytic co-i- dition. A chronic inflammatory state of the bladder, with mucous ur muco-purulent and ammoniacal urine, supervenes; and sloughing of the bladder, with extravasation of urine, I have known to occur. Increasing exhaustion accompanies the paralysis, and death ensues. But the period of fatal termination which thus takes place in most cases, varies according to the situation of fracture, the degree of dis- placement also, and pressure therefore on the cord. Above the third cervical vertebra, death may not occur immediately, unless the fracture be attended with displacement. In nineteen cases, collected by Dr. Stephen Smith, wherein the odontoid process was fractured, at ages ranging from three to sixty-eight years, three survived for five days, and ten for several weeks or months; in one case, death taking place two years and three months after the fracture. Similarly, fracture of the atlas was not fatal until a year after the accident, in a case under Mr. Cline's observation ; although port-mortem examination showed that the odontoid process of the axis was ever liable to fall backwards upon the cord. Fracture of both atlas and axis may not be imme- diately fatal, unless accompanied with sufficient displacement; one patient having lived five days, and another forty-seven weeks, and in the latter case bony union had occurred. Between the fourth cervical and the first dorsal, fracture is not generally fatal, under from three to ten days. With fracture in the dorsal region, the patient may live from two to three weeks. With fracture in the lumbar rearion, life may be prolonged from three weeks to two months, or possibly, many months. Recovery is not impossible. Even in fracture above the third cervical vertebra, three of the cases referred to recovered. In one, after the separation and escape of the odontoid process of the axis; in another, the body of this bone was discharged, and the pro- cess retained. A favourable result will be yet more probable, accord- ing to the absence of displacement, as in fracture of the more solid vertebra of the lumbar region j the nature of the injury remaining un-