SrECIAL PATnOLOGY SURGERY. brain, or its membranes—of an amte, though more commonly of a dn-onic character—is always liable to ensne, even from slight con- cussion, and, m the latter form of the disorder, after an interval ot apparent health. The approach of chronic inflammation may be very msidious, and its results permanent, in the impairment or loss of various cerebral functions. Thus, the memory fails with regard to places or persons, dates, or the recollection of certain words. The special senses become impaired, as by loss of sight, with paralytic falhng of the upper eyelid,—ptosis, or squinting; and one or both eyes may be affected. Loss of hearing is sometimes experienced, or various disturbing sounds in the head are heard, and smell or taste may be perverted. Headache, more or less persistent, and sleepless- ness or horrible dreams complete the misery of these purely cerebral affections; and paroxysms of maniacal excitement are apt to be in- duced by any slight indulgence in drink, or by any other occasion of cerebral influence. The muscular strength decUnes, and the sexual power becomes impaired ; while the general health, as depending on innervation, is reduced, and the patient brought to a cachectic, broken state, the very shadow of his former self. Strange to say, the pulse may remain unaffected, or remarkably slow, as if not indicative of any inflammatory mischief in the brain; and this seems to be more parti- cularly observed when the base of the brain is the seat of such morbid change, as declared by the character of the functional symptoms. These results I have had the opportunity of witnessing in several cases, con- sequent on concussion by railway injury, in which I have been engaged; but it is to be regretted that, in some such cases, their issue cannot be ascertained. Suppuration, as a consequence of inflammation, will give rise to symptoms of compression. But this takes place at a later period than that of intra-cranial hemorrhage after concussion, thus aiding the diagnosis of these two causes of compression. The prognosis of cerebral concussion must always have regard to the possibility at least of a fatal result from hfemorrhage or inflamma- tion, leading perhaps to suppuration. On the other hand, recovery is more common; and even after dementia, or deafness, or other loss of special sense, these symptoms may pass off in the course of time, and health be restored. Treatment.—The pathology of concussion supplies two general indi- cations of treatment; namely, to prevent increasing congestion or the tendency to inflammation, and to give time for the cerebral lesions to recover themselves. Hence, in the stage of depression, or insensibility, interference should be little, and judicious—on the one hand, not to increase congestion by blood-letting or other reducing measures; on the other hand, not to hurry on reaction and the tendency to inflamma- tion,^ by over-stimulation. Stimulants should be administered in pro- portion to the depression and its continuance, as evinced by the temperature and state of the pulse. But, with complete unconscious- ness, there will be the risk of suffocation, in any attempt to excite the act of swallowing; the stomach-pump should then be used to throw in whatever stimulant may be requisite. Other measures may also be employed with advantage; such as a turpentine enema, hot-water cans to the feet and in the axillas, with perhaps a mustard poultice to the epigastric region. It should be remembered that, while slight