SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEHY. 778 and the No 8 catheter introduced and retained for forty-eight hours Subsequently a full sized catheter should be passed every thfee or four days, and afterwards at longer intervals, to prevent recontraction T,^^ „„, Difficulty in introducing ^24- the catheter, after with- drawing the staff, may be obviated by first passing the director into the ure- thral wound, along which, as a guide, the catheter glides into the bladder. Instead of using a ca- theter, Mr. Syme prefers at first to pass a tube through the incision into the bladder, in order to guard the wound as much as possible from contact "with urine. Haemorrhage rarely proves troublesome immediately after the operation, or subse- quently; and it can be stopped by careful plugging of the wound, then placing a compress over it, and retaining the whole in position by a T bandage,—a catheter being kept in the bladder. The following directions are given by Mr. Syme, as essential to the success of this operation:—(!.) Maintain the median line in the incisions. (2.) Make a direct opening down to the staff, not a tortuous one. (3.) Divide the whole of the contracted part, rather more than less. (4) Do not cut so far back as to endanger the deep fascia of the perineum, and use the knife in the deep incisions with the cutting edge uppermost. (5.) Do not close the end of the inlying catheter,^ lest urine be forced into or through the wound, for want of patency in the instrument. (6.) Avoid escape or displacement of the instrument. (7.) If incisions are made far back, introduce a curved tube through the wound when the catheter is withdrawn. (8.) Do not neglect dilatation during the progress of recovery. (b.) Impermeable Stricture.—This condition of stricture is very rare, if it ever exists. As Syme justly observes, any stricture, through which urine can escape, will admit an instrument to be passed with care and patience. Then, of course, the operation may be performed as for permeable stricture. Otherwise, a catheter of full size having been passed down to the stricture, and held there firmly by an assistant, perineal section is performed ; the point of the instrument being the guide to, but not through, the stricture. Having clearly reached that point, the Surgeon endeavours to pass a small grooved director through, or partly through, the stricture; and on this instrument he at once divides, or successively pursues, the tract of the contracted canal. When no director, however small, can be introduced, the urethral canal must be followed without any such guide, by dissectioa alone cautiously conducted. In either case, as soon as the continuity of the passage is restored, the catheter above is to be carried on into the bladder, and retained in the usual manner for a period of some days.