INJUBIES AND DISEASES OF THE CHEEKS. 293 angle of tlie mouth. Precisely tlie same operation is performed on the opposite side. The central part of the lip may be destroyed, and the two adjoining portions become drawn up towards the septum and al^ nasi, exposing the incisor teeth. Dieffenbach rectified this deformity by bringing a sufficient amount of integument from the adjacent substance of the cheeks, on each side. An iucision by the side of the alse nasi is carried round to the middle liae of the lip, and down through its margin; each half is loosened, and brought together with twisted sutures. The Cheeks.—Wounds of the cheeks offer nothing worthy of special notice, in respect to the nature of these lesions. They must be neatly united, by means of simple sutures or hare-lip pins and twisted sature. Salivary Fistula is a perforation or division of the Stenonian duct of the parotid gland, whereby the saliva dribbles out on the cheek. This condition may result from wound of the cheek, sometimes in removing a tumour situated over the duct; or in consequence of abscess or ulcer of the cheek, implicating the duct. The fistulous aperture and trickling saliva are a source of great disfigurement and inconvenience. Treatment.—The object is to restore the continuity of the duct, as the natural channel for conveying the saliva into the mouth, where it opens upon the inner surface of the cheek, by a small orifice, admitting only a very fine probe, opposite the crown of the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. Recent salivary fistula can sometimes be closed by pressure alone, by means of a compress applied over the fistulous aperture in the cheek ; the saliva resuming its natural course through the duct, which still remains open. I have thus cured a fistula of this kind, in two instances. In a more established condition, the edges of the external aperture .should be pared and brought together, and then pressure applied. Gon- finned salivary fistula is probably attended with closure of the natural opening into the mouth. It will be necessary to form an artificial com- munication with the duct; and this may be done, either by passing a small seton from the inside of the cheek into the fistula, as Desault recommended; or by introducing a wire, red-hot, or heated by gal- vanism, as Mr. Marshall has suggested. The external fistulous opening must then be pared and closed with a twisted suture. Congenital Transverse Fissures of the Cheeks, extending from the angle of the mouth to the anterior border of the masseter muscle, or ■np tow&,rds the malar bone. Such fissures are rare. They must be treated on the same principle as hare-lip ; their edges being pared and brought together by pins and twisted sutures, that union by adhesion may close the fissure. Congenital Contraction of the Orifice of the Mouth, or even complete closure at birth, may be found, as in the nostrils. This condition will tax the ingenuity of the Surgeon to overcome by dilatation, or suitable incisions. The cut edges of skin and mucous membrane should be united by suture. Diseases.—Corroding Ulcers of the cheek may occur in two forms. Lupoid ulcer has all the characters of this form of Ulcer; the hollow ex- cavation, absence of granulations, thin, worm-eaten, and everted margin thus contrasting with a cancerous ulcer. The ravages of lupoid ulcera-