INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 551 frigMful damage might be, and has been, done by misadventure. _ An iniection of warm water may be immediately returned or only partially retained, thus plainly declaring the presence of a stricture ; especially if the return current should wash away with it any feculent matter, lodged below the obstruction. _ • , i Treatment. The general indication of treatment m intestinal ob- struction—from whatever cause arising—is obvious enough; namely, to restore the continuity, and the normal action of the bowel. But how to accomplish this object is always a question of difficulty. Its rational fulfilment would first imply the previous detection of the causative condition in operation,—as to its nature and seat. This precision of diagnosis cannot, as we have seen, generally be attained. So we must be guided by more general rules of treatment. Medicinal measures have regard to restoring the normal action of the bowel, and allaying the excruciating pain and inflammation, more particularly incident to acute obstruction. With this view, the most important rule is never to administer purgatives ; i.e., medicines by the mouth, to force evacuation through the obstructed portion of the intestinal canal. Enemata may generally be used with advantage, oft repeated and copiously, especially if the obstruction is apparently the result of constipation. Mild enemeta are most serviceable, as soap and water, or simply of warm water ; their mechanical movement being more efEectual than any aperient action. The injection of air or in- flation, by means of the stomach-pump, has occasionally proved effectual in overcoming the obstruction, and thus restoring the natural action of the bowel. But I prefer an oleaginous injection, which both distends the intestines, and acts as a solvent of any hard scybalaa or f^cal accumulation. I have thrown in seven pints of olive oil. As the in- testinal canal becomes inflated, something is felt to give way suddenly, and a motion soon follows. This practice has been most successful in apparent intussusception, and as occurring in infants and children. Opium is the most efficacions agent for the relief of pain, and it exercises some remedial influence on peritoneal inflammation. ^ But with symptoms of peritonitis, calomel may be combined with opiu.m ; and leeches, followed by hot fomentations, should be applied to the abdomen. Solid food, of any kind or in the smallest quantity, must be rigorously prohibited; the patient should be supported entirely by the imbibition of fluid nourishment; and this injunction is scarcely less applicable if the obstruction has yielded, and the bowel lies as yet dis- organized or functionally paralyzed. When medicinal treatment has failed, the question of operative in- terference arises. It is a dire resource, almost as perilous as the con- dition sought to be removed. Yet it is justifiable as affording the only chance of saving life, in a state otherwise surely fatal. The period of obstruction when such surgical intervention becomes warrantable, can- not be determined absolutely. As a general rule, that laid down by Phillips should be observed ; recourse to operation after three or four days have passed, without any relief from ordinary means, constipation being complete and stercoraoeous vomiting persistent. Constipation alone will not justify operative interference, unless the obstruction be complete; but with vomiting as a symptom of internal strangulation, an operation is the only alternative between probable life and certain death. Intussusception may be taken as an exception, owing to the