641 URINARY DEPOSITS. expose to the dull red heat of a spirit-lamp. If only a trace of sugar be present, a black spot appears. (c.) Gkromate of Potash Test.—Mix equal parts of neutral chi^omate of potash and solution of potash with the suspected urine, and boil • if sugar be present, a green colour—by the formation of oxide' of ch romium—is produced (Horsley). A modification of this test may be made:—A solution of bichromate of potash is decomposed by excess of sulphuric acid ; mix this with the urine, and boil; a beautiful green colour appears. This reaction is not affected by urea, the urates, or albumen (Luton). To Estimate the quantitij of Sugar.—By the Fermentation Test, the quantity of sugar present in diabetic urine may be estimated accord- ing to either of two of the results of this process :— {a.) By measuring the volume of Carhonic Acid produced.—The mixture of yeast and urine is placed in a graduated tube, inverted over mercury. When the fermentation is finished, in from six to twelve hours, at a temperature of 100° Fahr., the volume of gas formed is thus indicated, and subject to correction for temperature and pressure, the amount of sugar can be calculated. One cubic inch of carbonic acid represents nearly one grain of sugar. (5.) By the diminution in specifiG gravity or weight of the Urine, after destruction of the Stogar by complete fermentation; as compared ivith the iveight hefore this process—Dv. W. Roberts' method. The difference of specific gravity here indicates the quantity of sugar. Two portions of urine, of four ounces each, are placed in separate bottles of aboub twelve ounces capacity. In one is placed a piece of German yeast, the other is tightly corked. Both are placed in a warm place for twenty- two hours, until fermentation is com|)lete. The bottles are removed to a cooler locality, and after two hours the density of the fluid in each bottle is tested by the urinometer. Every degree of density lost, by the fermented sample, indicates one grain of sugar in each fluid ounce of urine. Albumen in Urine—Albuminuria.—P7ii/sicaZ Characters of Urine, m Bright's Disease.—Colour, smoky-brown; easily froths, owing to the presence of albumen ; specific gravity low—averaging 1-014—by abstraction of urea. Quantity of urine much diminished, owing to the reduced proportion of water. Subsequently, the urine becomes pale and opalescent, and is less apt to froth, there being much less albumen: the specific gravity declines yet lower, down perhaps to 1-004, while the quantity of urine is increased, approaching even to diuresis' The reaction is, generally, much less acid than in health. The specific gravity of the serum of the blood is reduced to 1-018 or even to 1-015, as compared with that in health, which rano-es between 1-029 and 1-031. ^ Microsopical Characters.—Casts of the uriniferous tubules blood and perhaps pus, may pass in the urine, which presents acco'rdino-ly characteristic appearances under the microscope; but their descriptfon scarcely relates to the composition of the urine secreted Chemical Tests.—The solid constituents of the urine,' amountino- in health to about 68 in 1000 of urine, in Bright's diseas'e dXe t?14^ 12, or even 6 parts only m 1000. This is chiefly due to the abstraction of urea, alluded to m connection with the a?ltered physical characters VOL ™' I'l^^tity of albumen contained in the urine varies 2 x