852 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURaEIlY, Fig. 966. before resorting to any operation. When the tumoiir grows from the posterior wall of the vagina, rectal examination will determine this question. Removal of these tumours can be effected by ex- cision or ligature. (2.) The Uterus is subject to various Displace- ments ; and to the formation of Tumours, benign and malignant. Displacements comprise : various alterations in the direction of the axis of the uterus,—Anteversion, Retroversion, Lateroversion, right or left; correspond- ing forms of Flexion or bending of the uterus upon itself; and Prolapsus, which, when complete, is dis- tinguished as Procidentia. The causes of these displacements are often con- genital, but still more frequently accidental. They commonly date from labour, and are attended by imperfect involution of the organ. Exertion sudden and forcible, or long continued, causing pressure upon the softened uterus, turns the fundus back- wards or forwards, depressing it. Engorgement and hyperplasia ensuing, the bulk of the oi'gan is increased, and this increased leverage acting upon the fundus, inci'eases and maintains the displacement. In many cases of retroflexion the enlarged body of the uterus is locked in the hollow of the sacrum, underneath the projecting promontory. Treatment must be directed to the complicating conditions, as well as to mechanical rectification. As a rule, engorgement, inflammation, hyperplasia, en- largement, will not be effectually treated until the uterus is maintained in due position. This is the essential condition of successful treatment. ^ The mere reposition by finger or sound (Eig. 966) is only useful for diagnosis. That it can be so effected proves freedom from adhesions or other obstacle. But the displacement is almost certain to recur, unless the body of the uterus be supported in its proper position by a suitable pessary. For prolapsus and retroversion, and for retroflexion, some modification of Hodge's lever-pessary can generally be relied upon. They are best made of flexible metal, which admits of accurate moulding to suit the particular case. Vulcanite rings, soft or hard rubber pessaries, are open to serious objections : they cannot be so nicely fitted, and they become foul and irritating. Operative procedures have been devised for con- stricting the upper part of the vaginal passage, and thus supporting the prolapsed uterus. Dr. Marion Sim's operation consists in removing strips of mucous membrane, in the form of a horseshoe, from the roof of the vagina, under the bladder. Each curved strip should extend from just above the nccK * Uterine sound. 1 i