60 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 50&.* In April, 1866, the joint was neither painful nor swollen; all the sinuses had firmly and permanently closed, leaving the bony outline of the natural articulation only somewhat enlarged and irregular in shape. She could flex the forearm.to an acute angle with the arm, and both pronation and supination were perfect. The action of the hand and fingers completed the perfect use of the arm. The Conditions of Mhow-joint Disease appropriate for Excision.— The three conditions which severally determine the propriety of excision with regard to the joints in general, are applicable to the elbow-joint. (1.) Functional inutility of the limb, depending on disease of the joint, having resulted in destruction of the ar- ticular cai'tilages, without the supervention of anchylosis, will always justify excision (Fig. 509); care being taken that the constitutional condition shall not, if possible, have approached to exhaustion. But the degree of reserve- power requisite for recovery is much less than after excision of the knee or hip, owing to the average period of reparation being less by one-half, or about six weeks instead of at least three months. (2.) Osseous anchylosis, and particularly in connection with a use- less position of the limb, will also justify excision. (3.) The structural conditions of disease pertaining to the elbow- joint, which specially aifect the propriety of its excision, relate to the extent of hone destroyed by disease. The limits of excision of the elbow-joint are not restricted by two of the thi-ee considerations re- specting the knee-joint. Thus, the length of the portions of bone removed from the elbow is comparatively unimportant, the corre- sponding loss of length in the arm not much impairing the use of this member eventually; nor is it of consequence, therefore, to observe the epiphyseal lines as affecting the subsequent growth of the bones. But it is equally requisite in the elbow, as in the knee, to preserve sufficiently wide surfaces for the formation of an adequately secure union : in the one case, with ligamentous mobility; in the other, with osseous consolidation. The removal of only a thin superficial section of the articular ends of the bones in the elbow- joint, leaving the section ends too nearly in con- tact, is apt to be followed by osseous union and an unsuccessful result of the operation. On the other hand, any new bone which may not unfrequently have been produced in the form of a spiculated enlargement of the articular ends above their dis- eased portions, and thereby limiting the disease, should not be included in the excision. (Fig. 510.) The importance of observing this limitation of the operation is particularly urged by Mr. Butcher in liis work on " Operative and Conservative Surgeiy." * Royal Free Hospital. (Author.) t St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 2, 30. Fig. 510.t