CONDITIONS OF HIP-JOINT DISEASE FOR EXCISION. 35 the rule, to point to exceptional cases of successful results at a later period, in the obviously adverse condition of constitutional exhaustion. Osseous anchylosis of the hip-joint, with useless malposition of the limb, vfould seem to invite excision, to restore a straight limb and with a movable joint; but the difficulty of detaching the firmly soldered femoral head from the acetabulum, or the damage done by this pro- cedure, would be such as to render the operation impracticable or fatal. Section of the femur below the trochanters, between the tro- chanters, or in the oiech, has been proposed and practised instead; operative procedures of which I shall have to speak in due time. Respecting the extent of bone which may be excised successfully, this element in the operation of hip-joint excision does not appear among the tabulated particulars of the majority of cases recorded. The portions of bone removed in each of my own cases are stated in the analysis of th.e series. As to the femur, in one case, I excised four and a half inches of the bone,—namely, head, neck, great trochanter, and two inches of the shaft, with about one inch more of the cancellated bone below, thence entering the medullary canal. That is, I believe, the largest femoral portion of bone wliich has hitherto been removed in any case of hip-joint excision on record. The patient recovered, with a thoroughly useful limb, and permanent result at the end of five years. Sir W. Fergusson removed four inches of the femur in one case. The acetabulum is very rarely the seat of origin in hip-joint dis- ease, yet that portion of the articulation rarely remains unaffected. Of ninety-two cases referred to by Mr. Hancock, in only eighteen the acetabulum was healthy. But the head of the femur is mostly diseased in a greater degree, it having been entirely absorbed in ten cases out of 143. In these 143 cases, also, the acetabulum was found more or less diseased in 119. In ten cases, an opening in the floor of the acetabulum communicated with the interior of the pelvis. In four cases, perfora- tion had taken place, and abscess within the pelvis. In three cases, the acetabulum was trephined for the evacuation of pelvic abscess. Reparation may ensue in the diseased acetabulum, when the head of the femur is removed from contact and attrition ; as attested by the results of cases of dislocation consequent on disease, which in so advanced a condition must have involved the acetabulum. Or, the disease may progress to perforation, followed by pelvic abscess, and a fatal termi- nation. The fair inference is, that excision will be rendered more safe by removing any diseased portion, or even the whole floor, of the cavity. Thus, the acetabular, and even the ])elvic portions of bone removed with success, have varied considerably in size. In one case Sir W. Fer- gusson removed nearly the whole of the acetabular cavity.' In another case, Mr. Hancock removed the whole of the floor of the acetabulum, and the head of the femur. The patient recovered. In one case' Sayre, of New York, removed the acetabular cavity, with the spine and anterior crest of the ilium, as well as the head of the femur The patient recovered. In another case, Mr. Bowma,n gouged the aceta- bulum, and the horizontal ramus of the pubes. The patient recovered. Lastly, Mr Erichsen removed not only the whole floor of the aceta- bulum, but also the rami of the pubis and ischium, with part of the tuberosity of the ischium, and a portion of the dorsum ilii. The patient recovered. In my own cases, I have never had occasion, but once, to remove more than small portions of the acetabulum, which