231 AMAUROSIS. various ways. Coming on suddenly or gradually, and sometimes better, sometimes worse, there may be a general indistinctness of vision—amblyopia; or objects appear double—diplopia; or half only of an object is seen—hemiopia; or objects appear bent, disfigured, dis- coloured, or patched. Distances cannot be estimated, and therefore the individual misses his aim in trying to snufE a candle, or pour wine into a glass. The flame of a candle appears split, elongated, or scattered into a brilliant halo. Ocular spectra of various kinds make their appearance ; sparks, flashes of phosphorescent clouds, or dark gpots—muscge volitantes—may be seen when the eyes are turned towards light-coloured surfaces. Great intolerance of light, or perhaps longing for light, is sometimes experienced. These subjective appearances or sensations may be premonitory symptoms of amaurosis. The pupil is generally dilated, except there be intolerance of light, and the iris is sluggish or motionless. Both eyes may be affected, and equally or unequally ; or one eye may be wholly blind, while the sight of the other is perfect. Similar differences are found in the degree of mobility and dilatation of the pupils. Defective motory power in the muscles of the eyeballs or lids sometimes coexists. The individual, therefore, gropes about with an uncertain gait, his eyes having a vacant stare, and the lids seldom moving or almost fixed. Examination with the ophthalmoscope can alone determine and complete the diagnosis. Causes.—The causes of amaurosis are various, and relate either to the nervous or vascular portions of the optic apparatus, or to both. Thus, over-stimulation and exhaustion of the retina, by long-continued exertion of the eye on minute objects, or by exposure to glaring light; ancemia; or determination of hlood to the head, as from any stooping occupation or intemperance; or amaurosis may be consequent on inflammation or degeneration, the pressure of extravasated blood, of tumours, or aneurism; or arise from injury, as fracture with depression, or concussion, severally affecting the retina, optic nerve, or brain. Besides these local causes, amaurosis may be symptomatic of irritation in a distant organ or part —sympathetic amaurosis—e.g., from disorders of the digestive or urinary organs, irritation of the fifth pair of nerves, as by tumours or carious teeth; or sometimes it results from blood-poisoning—e.g., in uraemia or diabetes, or by lead, nicotine, alcohol, or belladonna. Treatment.—Many morbid conditions of the retina and choroid, or further and unknown states of the optic nerve and brain, being associated together, but which have nothing in common with each other, excepting the symptomatic state known as Amblyopia, or dimness of sight, etc., there can be no special treatment of this visual affection. It must differ according to the particular cause of the affection. The removal of the cause can be accomplished only by having due regard to its nature. Any amaurotic occupation may be discontinued, whereas a structural change will probably be permanent and incurable. Remedial measures—also having reference to the particular condition of amaurosis—pertain chiefly to an atonic state, nervous or vascular, hypergemia and inflammation, sympathetic irritation, and blood-poisons. The treatment with reference thereto must be conducted on ordinary principles. Glaugo-MA.—An inflammatory condition, apparently, and which