HERNIA. 473 have already been described sufficiently; tlieir situations, and tbeir characters as recent adhesions, compared witb the old-standing adhesions of irreducible hernia. Within a very short period plastic lymph may have been effused, and even become vascular in twenty-four hours ; anpearino- as shaggy villi, or bridles, and sometimes having a cellular or a membranous form. The following changes take place con- currently in the state of the serous fluid and intestme withm the sac, and are notably important; the one as being an indication of the other. \ With strangulation of only afeto hours' duration, the fluid is pale yellow, clear and bright; the intestine is simply congested, of a deep-red colour, and its texture elastic. With strangulation of many hours' existence, - the fluid is dark brown, but clear, and the intestine of a purple tint, " but its texture stUl retains its elasticity. With strangulation of long duration, or after Adolent and protracted taxis, the fluid resembles a ' strong infusion of coffee, it is turbid, with blood and small coagula i mingled; the intestine is dark purple shading to black, it has lost its Fig. 778.* Fig. 779.t peritoneal brilliancy and become dull looking, its texture is leathery, not resilient, infiltrated with blood, and often having flakes of lymph adherent to its surface. With turbid serum, of a dull brownish-yellow colour, mixed with blood, coagula, flakes of lymph, or rarely pus, and probably having a feculent odour, the intestine—^having a blackish colour, dull appearance, and fleshy, softened consistence—is approaching to a gangrenous condition; or it has already passed into sphacelus, when shreds of the peritoneal coat readily peel off. (Fig. 778.) With the escape of gas through serum, of the nature last described, bubbles are produced, and the intestine is ruptured. (Fig. 779.) In the natural course of unrelieved sphacelated hernia, the sac and integumental coverings become inflamed, infiltrated with serum and pus; crepitation ensues, either by the escape of gas from the sac or its formation in the decomposing textures externally, and gangrene of the * Eoy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 1299. Portion of jejunum sphacelated; the strangula- tion having been so tight that minute injection could not pass into its vessels, from the portion of bowel within the abdomen. Adhesion of the strangulated part to the interior of the sac had taken place. (Howship.) + Ibid., 1305. Portion of gangi'enous small intestine; showing a rent, ex- tending half round the circumference of the bowel. The margins of the opening are not ulcerated. The mark of constriction on the bowel remains, after strangu- lation ; and probably an unsuccessful attempt to reduce, producing rupture. (Sir W. Blizard.)