URINARY DISEASES AND THEIR TREATMENT. 647 considerations. With regard to f^^*^' ^^^^^^^Jf ^^j^^^^^^^ which will form them, as sugar or starch m the food, should, m 5r Bence Jones's opinion, be prohibited On the other hand, free iersph-ation to eliminate the acids of the sweat, the retention^ of which would precipitate uric acid in the urme, is scarcely less im- portant. Warm clothing, warm bathing, friction with horsehair gloyes and belt-an excellent skin stimulant-and diaphoretics, are most L^hate of ammonia being soluble in urine at the tempemture of the body, its solution is thus secured, provided only that fluid be not overclJied. Dilution of the urine will best prevent supersaturation and deposit. The free use of aqueous drinks or soda-water is calcu- Lted to fulfil this indication, and thus probably prevent the formation of a lithate of ammonia calculus. Diuretics, which increase the secre^ tion will also aid the dilution of urine, and, moreover, tend to ehminate tH^^Icid or lithates f^m the system. The wme of colchicum in doses- of ten minims and upwards three times a day, prescribed with the car- bonate of potash to keep the lithic acid m combination-the resul mg lithates themselves being further held in solution by the administration of diluents-will together carry off both,^and soothe the irntabilxty of the bladder which accompanies their discharge. Saline aperients seem to contribute to this desirable result. Any prolonged subjection to such a course of elimination requires also the simultaneous action of smaU doses of blue pill, apparently to maintain the proportionate secretion of bile, which otherwise being virtually retamed as compared with the secretion of urine, would disturb the balance of their con- stituents in the blood. , -.i, j + s^^a Freventive Treatment recognizes the same rules with regard to food and exercise; alkalies occasionally to intercept the deposit of lithic acid ; and dilution to secure the solution of lithates. TJrea, excess in Urine^Treatmmt.—lt should be remembered that urea-like uric acid, from which it may be derived-is produced physiologically in the system, by the destructive metamorphosis ot the hi4ly nitrogenous textures, i.e. muscle. Nitrogenous food is also perhaps, a direct source of urea, and is assuredly followed by a rapid and very considerably increased production of this constituent ot the urine. Its pathological origin is apparently similar; an excess being produced in connection with febrile conditions, and a deficiency m those of an opposite character. Consequently, the indications of cura- tive treatment would appear to be : to lessen the daily toil and harass which are well known to be associated with ureal diabetes, and, still gaided by pathology, to reduce the supply of animal food. But this latter indication is not confirmed by experience. It is found necessary to repair the system by a generous diet, aided by tonics and alcoholic stimulants; the latter seeming to supply a material which readily oxidates, thus protecting the muscular tissue from premature decay, with that excessive production of urea which rapidly runs off through the kidneys and incessantly irritates the bladder. The quantity of urine, and thence the frequency and urgency of micturition, may be reduced by opium, which tends also to soothe the general nervous excitement that accompanies exhaustion of mind and body. Freventive Treatment is necessarily guided by similar considerations •only with an anticipatory application.