SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 76 perclia to t.lie ulnar side of tlie splint—one to support the border of the hand, and the other to prevent any lateral shifting of the splint. As the hand acquires strength, more free play for the fingers should be allowed, by cutting away the splint up to the knuckles, leaving only the palm supported. Some support must be continued until the patient feels the wrist as strong without it as with it. Earlier disuse of this support would assuredly undo the work of previous management, and lead to an unsuccessful result. A year, or even two, of such finishing-ofi support may be required to gain the most useful hand. Residts.—Fifteen cases of Wrist-Excision are recorded by Mr. Lister, as from his own practice. Of these cases, twelve were successful; recovery taking place, and with a hand more or less completely useful in its varied movements of the fingers and thumb, and with combined strength and flexibility of the wrist. In one case the result was doubtful at the time of the report—four months after operation. In the remaining two cases, death ensued, though not directly from the operation; one patient dying, at the end of seven weeks, from advanced phthisis and other complaints ; the other patient, after re- excision about six months subsequent to the original operation, lived yet two months longer, when death occurred from phlebitis and pysemia. Secondary haemorrhage, or any other bad symptom immedi- ately referable to the operation, occurred in not a single instance. Other and simple methods of operation have hitherto rarely proved successful ; the results having been, in the majority of the few instances recorded, either a stiff and useless hand, or recun-ence of the disease and secondary amputation. Yet it may fairly be doubted whether the superior results attained by Lister's method have not been due—as he himself acknowledges— more to the principles on which the a/!!e?--treatment was conducted, than to the plan and performance of the operation. This conclusion seems to be established by two significant facts in the history of Mr. Lister's cases—that the period of recovery and the resulting con- dition of the hand were about equal in his earher and later cases, while the method of operation was different. Professor Spence—by a method of excision apparently similar to Lister's—has operated in eight cases ; two underwent secondary ampu- tation of the forearm, but in none of the cases was the result fatal. Author^s Collection. (1.) Eoyal Infirmary, Edinburgh ; period, 1865-69. (Per Mr. P. H. Watson.) Number of cases, 12: recoveries, 9; deaths, 3. (2.) Liverpool Eoyal Infirmary; period, five years, 1870. (Per Mr. >\. J. Cleaver.) Number of cases, 6: recoveries, 6. t> rr (3.) Chalmers' Hospital, Edinburgh; period, six years, 1870. (Per. Mr. P. H. Watson.) Number of cases, 5 : recoveries, 4 ; deaths, 1. , . -vt (4.) London Hospital; period, five years, 1870. (Per Mr. J. McCarthy.) Num- ber of cases, 3: recoveries, 2; deaths, 1. Amputations after excision, 1: recoveries, 1. (5.) King's College Hospital; period, five years, 1870. (Per the house surgeon.) Number of cases, 3: recoveries, 3. (6.) St. Thomas's Hospital; period, 1866-70. (Per Mr. F. Churchill.) Number of cases, 1: recoveries, 1. „ „ ^ n j n (7.) St. Bartholomew's Hospital; period, 1866-70. (Per Mr. CaUender.) Number of cases, 1: deaths, 1. i (8.) Eoyal Free Hospital; period, five years, 1870. Number of cases, 1: re- covenes,^^^^^ Hospital; Westminster Hospital; Charing Cross Hospital; St. Mary's