MORTALITY AFTER OPERATION. 105 supervention of inflammation; tlie other, after that period, when inflammation has supervened, or, at a later period, suppuration. The results of primary and secondary amputations differ in Civil and Military practice. In Givil practice, the mortality from primary ampu- tations is rather higher than from secondary amputations; but in a variable proportion according to whether it be the loiuer or the upper extremity. In the 403 cases by Spence, of the 144 submitted to amputation for injury, there was an equal proportion of 72 in each extremity. In the lower limb, 58 primary amputations were followed by 33 deaths, and 14 secondary by 8 deaths. But in the upper limb, of 60 primary amputations, 16 only were fatal; and of 12 secondary, only 3. In the lower extremity, therefore, both primary and secondary amputations are most fatal. Of 46 cases recorded by Malgaigne, 34 died. Of 24 cases recorded by South, Laurie, and Peacock, as having occurred in old St. Thomas's Hospital, the Grlasgow and Edinburgh Infirmaries, all were fatal. The total results of amputations in the thigh, leg and foot, shoulder, arm, and forearm, as performed at University College Hospital, may be thus compared :—Of primary am- putations, in 48 cases, there were 18 deaths ; of secondary amputa- tions, in 43 cases, 19 deaths. In Military practice, the mortality is reversed; secondary amputations, excepting those of the hip-joint, being far more fatal than primary operations. Of 300 secondary amputations by Faure, only 30 recovered; whilst three-fourths of Larrey's primary amputations recovered. With regard to whether the operation be performed in the upper or the loioer extremity; during the Peninsular War, the mortality after secondary amputation in the one case was twelve times, and in the other only three times, as great as after primary amputation of these parts; a difference more adverse to secondary amputation in the upper limb. The seat of operation in-the upper and lower limbs affects the mortality, as shown by the results in the British army during the Crimean War. The relative rate of mortality per cent, was as follows:—Prom primary amputations : at the shoulder, 27 ; of the arm, 17 ; of the forearm, 3; of the thigh, 62 ; of the leg, 30; and of the foot, 17. Then again, from secondary am- putations, the death-rate per cent., in different parts, was—at the shoulder, 66 ; of the arm, 31; of the forearm, 28; of the thigh, 80 ; and of the leg, 76. The causes of death, as well as the rate of mortality, differ after primary and secondary amputations. The former are more often fatal from shock, haemorrhage, exhaustion, and perhaps tetanus, or pytemia; the latter period of operation is especially prone to a fatal issue from exhaustion, tetanus, pyaemia, erysipelas, pneumonia, or other visceral - affections, and gangrene of the stump. Statistical results are wanting to accurately determine the relative frequency of these causes of death, with reference to the period of amputation. (c.) The seat of amputation, in relation to the mortality of this operation, is very important. The danger and the death-rate are greater in proportion to the proximity of amputation to the trunk ; and in an increasingly ascending ratio, the higher the line of operation, and the larger the size of the part amputated. Common surgical experience shows that the removal of a toe or finger is less hazardous than amputation of the thigh or arm. But statistical results have shown the regularly ascending mortality according to the line of