92 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. line of incision corresponding to the whole length of the bone. After such operation, an inner splint must be applied to obviate the tendency to varus which will ensue. Fig. 528. 8ub-periosteal excision of the whole shaft of the tibia, for necrosis, yielded a successful result in the hands of Mr. Christopher Heath ; the limb being shortened by only one quarter of an inch, and nearly two inches larger in circumference than on the opposite side. The patient could walk without support.* CHAPTER XL. AMPUTATIONS. General Directions.—Amputation is the removal of any part of the body by a cutting operation of severation. This kind of operation relates chiefly to the Limbs. It may be practised for Injury or Disease; but amputation is performed in a sound part, more or less remote from the seat of the morbid condition ; Pathology only negatively guiding the operation in the selection of that part, yet thereby materially affecting the result. The conditions of Injury or Disease, which necessitate Amputation, I have already considered in previous chapters—especially with re- ference to Contused Wounds, Compound Fractures and Dislocations; it remains only to here describe the operations themselves. Certain direction are common to all Amputations. Instrnmients.—Few and of simple construction, amputating instru- ments and appliances comprise—a tourniquet, Petit's (Pig. 529), for preventing haemorrhage by compression of the main artery; Esmarch's bandage and elastic coil; amputating knives, of various lengths and shapes (see figures of operations) ; a saw (see figure, amputation of thigh), and cutting-pliers (see Fig. 315), the latter for removal of any spiculum of bone; artery-forceps (see Fig. 91) or tenaculum, for seizing or hooking arterial vessels ; ligatures (see Fig. 91) or acupres- sure-needles and wire (see Fig. 92), for tying or compressing them; suture-needles and silk or wire (see Fig. 86); strips of diachylon or isinglass plaster, and roller bandages, sponges and Imt, with a supply * " Trans. Clin. Soc," 1877.