SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 558 point. On passing the finger up the bowel, this painful swelling may be felt before it reaches the perineal surface. In connection with these local signs, other symptoms may be present; a constant bearing down and desire to relieve the bowel, yet, with straining efForts, only a little mucus passes ; or there may be obstruction to the evacuation of fajces, and constipation ; while a troublesome irritability of the urinary bladder and frequent micturition is experienced, or a difficulty in pass- ing^ water and even retention of urine. The situation of pointing is various, and specially important." Rectal abscess coming to the sur- face, points slowly in the perineum by the side of the anus; occasion- ally, however, at some distance from the bowel,—in the middle of the thigh, or backwards, near the trochanter; but, not unfrequently, it opens into the bowel, and perhaps also externally in the perineum. Fistula in ano results when any opening of a rectal abscess becomes established in the neighbourhood of the anus; and the varieties of fistula thus formed will be noticed presently. The matter discharged from an abscess adjoining the rectum has always a fgecal odour; more perceptible if there be a communication with the bowel, although it is distinctly fsecal in any case, owing probably to transudation. Causes.—Various local causes give rise to this abscess; any source of irritation, as habitual rectal constipation, or a foreign body in the bowel, as a fish-bone, which Liston found, the core of an apple, which Brodie detected, or a piece of tooth ; occasionally, caries of an adjacent bone, as of the coccyx or sacrum, or of the tuberosity of the ischium in one of my own cases ; or disease of the bowel itself may be the cause in operation; lastly, some external injury, as a kick or contusion, may have induced inflammation ; or exposure to cold, as by sitting on a cold stone, has brought about congestion followed by suppuration. Chronic rectal abscess not unfrequently results from obstruction to the venous circulation, and is symptomatic of some organic disease of the lungs, liver, or heart. Often, as chronic abscess coexisting with a phthisical tendency or actual phthisis, the local disease is of constitu- tional origin. Whenever dependent on venons obstruction, congestion of the haemorrhoidal veins, or piles, is commonly associated. Treatment.—In an early stage, before suppuration has occurred, resolution can sometimes be effected. Laxative aperients rather than purgatives, and careful regulation of the diet, with warm fomentations, may succeed in dispersing the inflammation. If not thus serviceable, these measures will prepare the way for the better management of suppuration. An early opening should be made to prevent the matter burrowing around the gut. As soon, therefore, as the formation of matter can be detected or suspected, although fluctuation be very in- distinct, and certainly before any pointing has appeared, the forefinger, well greased, may be passed into the bowel, and the thumb placed below the swelling externally, thus taking the abscess between the finger and thumb, so as to render it tense and defined; a sharp-pointed bistoury should be entered carefully by the side of the bowel, and if a drop of pus rises up by the side of the blade, the opening must be sufficiently enlarged downwards to let out the matter already accumu- lated and allow a free discharge subsequently. A strip of lint is then inserted. The abscess having been laid open, it usually heals from the bottom, without communicating with the bowel or leaving an external fistula.