OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED FEMORAL HERNIA. 533 femoral than in inguinal hernia; for, owing to the tight and unyield- ing character of the stricture in the crural ring, delay would be the more dangerous. Operation.—The general principles already laid down with refer- ence to operation for the relief of strangulated hernia, are here appli- cable. In regard to femoral hernia, the stricture may be divided external to the sac, and the protrusion returned without opening the sac, and this limited procedure is sometimes effectual; when internal, it will become necessary to open the sac, in order to divide the stricture from within. The patient lying recumbent, chloroform having been administered, the parts shaved, and the bladder emptied; an incision is made by pinching up and transfixing a fold of skin, transversely across the tumour on its pubic aspect, and inclining inwards, so as to reach the seat of stricture. (Fig- 814.) This latter direction is the special feature of Mr. Gay's admirable modification of the operation— that the incision be placed on the inner side of the neck of the tumour. If the sac be not opened, the operative procedure is thus simply the taxis, plus a slight incision. Other forms of incision are occasionally convenient ; a transverse line may be added obliquely, along Pon part's liga- ment, as thus "J^; or the in- verted J_ of Sir A. Cooper, or the inverted X of Sir W. Fer- gusson. The superficial fascia is then divided, and any little haemorrhage restrained which might obscure the dissection, by pinching or twisting any bleeding arterial vessel. A round tumour is now ex- posed, having a peduncle curving upwards into the abdomen, at the angle between the body of the pubes and the junction of Pou- part's ligament with the spinous process. This is the hernia, but invested with the fascia propria—the femoral sheath of fascia trans- versalis united with the subperitoneal cellular tissue, which may be loaded with fat, and occasionally studded with small cysts. Accord- ingly, the fascia propria may be thin and membranous ; or thickened, and present an almost omental appearance, especially in old-standing hernia long subject to the pressure of a truss. In the one case, the sac lies immediately underneath the fascia ; in the other, the sac is buried within its substance. But, however this fascia may resemble the peri- toneal sac, it may be distinguished by observing that the one is con- tinuous with the margin of the hernial aperture, whereas the other is there defined, and constricted by it. Passing the finger up on the neck of the tumour, the sharp upper margin of the saphenous opening in the fascia lata will be felt constricting the neck ; and immediately behind this, the junction of Poupart's ligament with the base of Gimbernat's ligament may also be the seat of stricture. These strictures should be divided successively; first, the falciform border at its upper cornu, in order to find the necessity for proceeding a little more deeply to Gimbernat's ligament. Introducing a hernia-knife Fig. 814.