EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 19 tions, and which shall be sufficiently accurate and comprehensive for comparison, arc wanting with regard to the knee-joint, no less than in respect to other joints. Six valuable cases of knee-joint anchylosis, resulting from disease, without suppuration, have been recorded by Mr. T. Bryant.* They do not, however, entirely meet the questions which I have suggested, and the limited number of cases do not supply sufficient data for comparison. The period of natural cure would seem to be very protracted, ex- tending often to five years 'or more, and even to ten years. Cases of this duration, respectively—not, it must be confessed, of a very inviting and encouraging character—are recorded by Mr. T. Bryant and by Mr. Hilton as having occurred in their practice for the mechanical cure of knee-joint disease. But even a more important consideration is this, that such protracted recovery is attended with a proportionate reduction of constitutional vigour. Hence, with reference to the question of mortality, operative interference may be too late, or intercurrent dis- ease, consequent on delay, may carry off the patient. In either case, death ensues from the prolonged attempt to bring about a natural anchylosis. The patient is killed in the curing. But this inquiry must be pursued. Its importance cannot be over- estimated, since, even in the advanced state of suppuration, free in- cisions into the joint may prove successful in terminating the disease, with a movable joint, or at least with anchylosis—a mode of treat- ment in aid of the natural cure for which Surgery is indebted to Mr. Gay. In a few instances which have come to my knowledge, fibrous anchylosis has occurred, as the result of excision of the knee-joint; and ,a false-joint having formed, instead of synostosis, the limb has become proportionately useful. One such case is related by Mr. Barwell,t the patient having been operated on bv Mr. Cowell, at the Victoria Hospital. Excision in relation to Life, or the Mortality after Operation.—Taking the results of large collections of cases, and those also in different Hospitals as smaller collections, three general conclusions may be esta-^ blished respecting the rate of mortality from knee-joint excision for disease :—1. A diminished mortality as the operation has continued to be practised. 2. Since the revival of the operation, and more recently, an average death-rate of one in four or five cases. 3. Very different death-rates in the hands of individual Surgeons, varying from one in two or three, to one in ten and one in nineteen, or even less. The conditions of disease, both local and constitutional, in the cases selected for operation, have doubtless mainly determined this different resultino- mortality, and not uninfluential has been the mode of performino- the operation, and more significant the after-treatment. But the operation and after-treatment in the particulars essential to success have per- haps, cHefly affected the resulting state of the limb. The general results respoctmg the mortality of knee-joint excision for disease in large collections of cases, and those of different Hospitals in the Unitod Kingdom during a period of five years, are exhibited in the followin<r collections of cases, which illustrate the three general conclusion! already referred to. * Medical Times and Gazette, 1870.; t " Trans. Clin. Soc." 187G.