^^•^ SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. experience would seem to show that when the intestine is penetrated without protrusion, the general rule should be to dose the intestin^u' wound by suture—I.e. practise enteroraphy; having enlarged the abdominal opening, if necessary, by an exploratory incision, to find the seat ot intestinal lesion. Recourse to enteroraphy, under these circum- stances, was more or less expressly sanctioned by Legouest in thf Crimean War, by Lohmeyer in the Danish War, and by Beck in the Franco-German campaign; and exploration with enterooraphv is strongly advocated by Dr. Otis, from the results of numerous cases adduced in his comprehensive "Surgical History of the American War " (1861-65). Bat I think that objections to this mode of treat- ment should not be overlooked; for, as the intestine remains within the abdomen, in searching to find the wounded part, fsecal extravasa- tion is very apt to occur; and more especially if perchance several folds of the bowel be penetrated. Wound of the intestine, with pro- trusion, is a condition respecting the treatment of which surgical authorities have also held a difference of opinion. Closure of the wound witb sutures—enteroraphy—and reduction of the protruded portion of intestine just into the cavity of the abdomen, constitute.-, the plan of treatment generally applicable. The sutures, according tj Travers's observations on animals, soon become coated over with a layer of lymph, and ulceration taking place inwards, they are even- tually detached and fall into the intestinal canal; while the line of incision uniting by adhesion, leaves a firm cicatrix. For this purpose, it is necessary to bring the peritoneal margins into contact, as the source of adhesion. The needle used should be a fine round needle, and the sutures, fine round sewing-silk; the whole thickness of the gut should be brought together, into even apposition, and the sutures clipped off close to the knot. To avert any tendency to the escape of feecal matter in the intervals of this interrupted suture, the con-" tinned or glover's suture will be preferable for a wound of any extent; observing to pass the thread from within outwards, and from without inwards, alternately; thus to invert the lips of the intestine, and bring the peritoneum into contact. When returned into the abdomen, the gut is left near the external aperture, to allow of free discharge in the event of sloughing. The abdominal wound, if ex- tensive, may be partially closed by suture; leaving a dependent opening. Another plan of treatment, which has been recommended by some Surgeons of experience, consists in reduction of the protruded portion, just into the abdomen, without closure of the wound in the gut, and so that the two apertures, intestinal and parietal, shall correspond and lie in contact. Adhesion taking place between the two apertures, an artificial anus is formed. The alleged advantages of this procedure are : the absence of sutures, as foreign bodies, and the prevention of feculent extravasation incident to the mechanical closure of an in- testinal wound by sutures. The mechanical efiicacy of sutures is, however, now no longer a question. And the obvious disadvantages of attempting to form an artificial anus are: the liability of feculent extravasation pending adhesion of the two apertures, subject also to alteration of their relative position; and the sad inconvenience of a permanent artificial anus in any part of the abdominal parietes. But an extensive and transverse wound, or a lacerated wound of the in-