SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 1G4 attended witli a similar discliarge, through a wound of the scalp; yet the fatality has been far less. Of fourteen such cases, gathered from the experience of various Surgeons, eight recovered. But, bearing in mind the pathological significance of a watery discharge in fractured base, the Surgeon may well avail himself of this evidence, in estimating the probability of his patient's recovery. Other symptoms must also be taken into account, as being indicative of severe intra-cranial lesions: haamorrhage from the ears, nose, or mouth, or into the orbit, from rupture of a meningeal artery, or a venous sinus, with intra-cranial extravasation; and also the severity of cerebral concussion or contu- sion, in relation to its immediate danger, and the consequent inflam- mation, leading to eifusion and suppuration. Treatment.—No operative interference is requisite, or practicable, in fracture of the base. Itself remaining without displacement, the brain-lesions alone assume the whole consequence of the injury. Tre- phining has, however, been performed successfully, close to the foramen magnum. Separation of the Sutwes, or Diastasis, of the bones of the head, is liable to occur in youth, with or without fracture. This disunion may take place in the vault of the cranium, at the coronal, sagittal, or lambdoidal sutures, or in the cranial base; or sometimes at the junction of epiphyses, as between the occipital and sphenoid bones, or between the petrous and squamous portions of the temporal bone. Such injuries are, to all effects, fractures; and the diagnosis of suture- disunion and fracture at the base of the skull will be impossible in prac- tice ; while in the vault, the distinction cannot always be ascertained, unless a scalp-wound admit of more precise examination beneath the integument. But the situation and direction of the disunion, as cor- responding to one of the sutures, is always significant of the kind of injury ; especially if in connection with a similar swelling of the scalp, arising from venous extravasation through the rupture of a sinus under the suture. Or an interval can be felt between the bones, the more so if the dura mater be lacerated. Diastasis of the cranial bones is usually a fatal injury; owing to the great violence necessary to pro- duce separation of the sutures, the frequent association of fracture, and often of haemorrhage within the skull, as well as what may appear externally. Treatment must be conducted in accordance with the rules already laid down with reference to cranial fractures, simple and compound. Injuries of the Membranes op the Brain.—Extravasation of Blood loithin the (7ra»m?)i.—Intra-cranial extravasation, in connection with Injury of the Head, may exist, with or without Fracture of the Skull. But the pathology of extravasation, in either case, is the same—with regard to the situations of effusion, the symptoms, and consequences. These have been already described. The Treatvient is that of Compression. Hernu Cerebri.—Protrusion of the brain-substance is liable to occur in connection with laceration of the brain and its membranes, communicating with compound fracture of the skull. The projecting portion of brain not having any integumental covering is not properly speaking a hernia, and is sometimes designated/img'?As cerebri. (Fig. 605 ) It may present itself in any part of the skull; but commonly in some part of the vault, and especially the frontal and parietal regions.