SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ia seen by the observer. An antral tumour can tlms be clearly dis- tinguished from a polypus springing from the turbinate bones or a growth springing from the base of the skull. The condition ^f Ihe hard and soft palate should be examined with the finger, and behind the soft palate to ascertain any extension of the growth in that direc tion. ihe consistency of the projection beneath the teeth is more readily discovered, and the finger should be passed over it both outside and mside the cheek. _ Non-malignant growths are more or less hard to the touch, and painless. They grow slowly, and have no tendency to involve surround- ing parts or the skin, except by mechanical interference ; the general health also remains unaffected. Myeloid and vascular tumours are softer than other non-malignant growths, and more vascular in appear- ance where they are covered only by mucous membrane. They grow more rapidly, occasionally ulcerate, but do not fungate, as in fibrous tumours of the upper jaw, and may then bleed profusely. Encephaloid cancer is characterized by its softness, and gnawing pain affecting the face and head ; its rapid growth, and tendency to fungate and bleed. Tumours of the Lower Jaw are more open to diagnosis. Non-maliq. nani growths are distinguished by hardness, and slowness of growth, with no tendency to fungate within the mouth, and no enlargement of the neighbouring lymphatic glands. After a time, the unchecked growth may burst through the skin and present a fungating mass; but this has a more healthy appearance and is of slower growth than the encephaloid fungus. Cancerous tumours generally originate with- in the bone, and grow rapidly; tumours having these characters are almost invariably cancerous. Treatment.—Medicinal treatment with the view of inducing ab- sorption can be of little avail. A small enchondi-oma of the upper jaw is said to have been thus removed, under the care of Mr. Stanley, by the application of iodine. Early and complete excision of the growth is the only cure; in non-malignant tumours, before the anatomical relations of the growth have become too complicated to admit of complete extirpation; in cancerous tumours, before the surrounding structures have become involved. The results of sucb operations are more successful in respect tO' tumours of the lower jaw, as the whole disease can be more completely removed. What security there may be- in the removal of half the jaw affected with cancer, is still an open question. Excision op the Upper Jaw.—This operation was first performed by Mr. Syme.* Of several methods of operation, that which is most generally applicable is as follows:—The patient sitting, or lying re- cumbent and under the influence of chloroform, the central incisor tooth of the diseased jaw is extracted, and two incisions are then made. Eirst, a bistoury is entered at the junction of the malar and upper maxillary bones, and carried down with a curvilinear incision into the angle of the mouth. Secondly, another incision is made from the nasal process of the upper maxilla down along the side of the nose, round the ala, which it detaches, and perpendicularly through the centre of tlie upper lip into the mouth. The flap, thus defined, is (dissected up to the margin of the orbit, and its contents—the eye- ' Edin. Med. Journal," 1868, p. 558.