STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. 685 an incli and a half to two inches from the anus, and easily vyithin reacli of the finger; next in order of fi-equency, at two to three inches from the anus; then at four or five inches ; and sometimes at the junction of the bowel with the sigmoid fixure of the colon. Very rarely, two distinct strictures have been met with; two such cases were seen by Mr. Curlino-, one of which originated in dysentery. Above the seat of stricture, the rectum is usually dilated, and thickened just above the part diseased. This thickening is owing to hypertrophy of the mus- cular coat, in consequence of the increased functional action of the bowel at this point to overcome the obstruction. The mucous mem- brane, above the stricture, is seldom healthy; being either unduly vas- cular, or ulcerated and pus-discharging. Ulcerated apertures may at length lead downwards along fistulous passages which open externally near the anus, or in the front of the perineum, or behind, as far off as the buttock. Sometimes, a fistulous communication forms between the rectum and the vagina or the urethra, or between the bowel and the cavity of the peritoneum. Below the stricture, the coats of the bowel are less changed; but there is frequently difEuse ulceration of the mucous membrane, perhaps hsemorrhoids, or a complete fistula in ano. Stjmptoms.—Stricture of the rectum commences insidiously. The earliest symptom is that of some mechanical obstruction to the passage of the fseces in the act of defsecation. Hence, frequent constipation ensues, with straining efforts at stool. This difficulty may be readily overcome by a solvent purgative, and the nature of the case remain unsuspected. But the f^ces become more scanty, narrowed or figured, and often voided in small lumps. Fsecal and flatulent accumulations above the stricture give rise to abdominal distension ; while an irre- gular, feculent, and mucous diarrhoea occasionally relieves the other- wise habitual tendency to constipation. In the ulcerative condition, scalding pain, and bloody, slimy mucous or purulent discharge, are superadded to the symptoms of obstruction. Examination per rectum will affirm or negative the presence of stricture. On introducing the forefinger into the rectum, the stricture can generally be felt; when its nature—whether fibrous or malignant—perhaps the degree of con- traction, and its extent, may also be determined. If situated beyond the reach of the finger, the introduction of an oiled wax or gum-elastic bougie may possibly enable the Surgeon to ascertain the presence of a stricture, but not its nature ; also its height from the anus, the degree and extent of contraction,—by observing the relative length, the size, and obstructed portion of the bougie. In using the instrument, all these particulars must be gained very cautiously; the curve of the rectum from before backwards, and its inclination to the left high up, being duly remembered; also the promontory of the sacrum, against which the point of the i)ougie is apt to impinge ; and the presence of the natural folds of mucous membrane which may intercept its pro- gress. Unless these circumstances be observed, as to the course and interior of the canal, some degree of obstruction might convey the im- pression of stricture. Indiscriminate pressure might then rupture the mucous membrane and open the peritoneal cavity ; the point of the instrument seeming to pass, really turns downwards into the rectum. When the obstruction is partly due to spasmodic action, it yields moro readily under the influence of chloroform. In the diagnosis of stricture of the rectum, sources of compressiom