22 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. But in eight successful cases, all of them children, at St. Thomas's Hos- pital, the average duration of treatment, as reported by Mr. Allinf^ham was only 2% days, or about seven months. Many cases also proffross more rapidly than this; and in my first case of excision of the knee tlie period oi osseous union was only sixty days, or two months, the knee then supporting the weight of the trunk. This patient was thii-ty- three years old at the time of operation, with previous synovial disease ot six years' duration; and the union has stood the test of nineteen years' free use of the Hmb (1878). The average period for recovery, in my own cases, has been, for the production of firm or perhaps osseous union, three months; and to regain a thoroughly useful limb, three months more, in a starched bandage, with gentle use of the limb gradually, for support and progression. Subsequently the limb will regain bulk and strength by increasing muscular development. The permanent character of a successful result after excision and the average frequency of such result, are questions severally omitted from statistical records. Both these important elements are noted in the results of my own cases. (See Analysis, p. 29.) The growth of the limb in length, after excision of the knee-joint, is a question respecting which the results are conflicting. The question can only affect the propriety of this operation in youth or childhood. It was originally suggested and investigated by Professor Humphry, of Cambridge, in an admirable paper on the Growth of Bones in their Long Axis at their Epiphysial Cartilages. The two epiphyses—upper and lower—in a long bone are not equally productive of its lono-itu- dinal growth; one is a more active organ of growth than the other!" In the tibia and humerus the upper epiphysis is thus more important; in the femur and radius, the lower epiphysis. But the lower femoral epi- physis would appear to be relatively more important to the longitudinal growth of the femur than the upper tibial epiphysis is to the elonga- tion of the tibia. Hence, with reference to excision of the knee-joint, removal of the femoral epiphysis will more especially arrest the subse- quent growth of the limb in length. The growth of the foot also is arrested, so that it may become insufiicient to sustain the weight of the body. All this arrest of development may be reduced still further by the imperfect growth from previous disease. The practical deduction, therefore, seemed to be, that if, by excision of the knee in a growing subject, the epiphyses and epiphysial Carti- lages of the tibia and femur be removed, this operation will invariably tend to arrest the growth of the limb subsequently. Mr. Pemberton, of Birmingham, followed in 1859 with a case in which, a youth having been operated on in 1854, the limb in 1859 was nine inches shorter than its fellow. Another case, from the practice of Dr. Keith, of Aberdeen, showed a deficiency in length of five inches dnring six years' growth. Counter-evidence on this question is adduced by Mr. Butcher. Dr. Keith himself wrote to the latter eminent Surgeon, in 1856, that " J. Hay's limb, operated on November, 1853, is plump, and growing in length as fast as his sound limb. So also is J. Keith's, operated on May, 1854." Corroborative cases are cited from reports by Mr. Page, of Carlisle, and Mr. Brothcrston. In a case where the entire epiphyses were removed by Mr. C. Heath from the knee-joint of a boy aged eleven years and a half, subsequent measurements showed that the loss of growth in. length of the limb, was only two inches in