317 PULP-DISEASES. For sucli cases gutta-percha is tlie most generally useful filling, as, from the exceeding tenderness of the teeth, it is difficult and hardly possible to make good gold-fillings. Oxychloride of zinc forms an admirable temporary filling, but it requires renewal even more fre- quently in such mouths than in healthy ones. If the cavity of decay be neglected, inflammation of the fidf^ is the most common result of the approach of caries. A tooth which has been sensitive to heat and cold, and has from time to time ached slio-htly, suddenly becomes the centre of most violent pain, every pulsa- tion of its vessels giving rise to an extra throb. After excruciating pain has lasted for some hours (it may be a day), it ceases, sometimes oradually, more generally suddenly, and the pulp is found to be dead. ° Such are the symptoms of acute inflammation of a whole pulp, a disorder which almost always ends in its abrupt death ; but local inflammations of the pulp-substance, confined to the point of exposure, and often not larger than a millet seed, often exist, and may go on for months without involving the rest of the pulp. Such spots of inflammation are especially prone to set up neuralgic pains, which do not seem to have any connection with the teeth, and they do not often cause excruciating toothache distinctly referable to a particular tooth. The morbid change may go further, and the exposed spot ulcerate; in this way the pulp becomes wasted and no longer fills up the whole pulp-chamber, and in course of time altogether disappears.^ This con- dition of the pulp, when, from the position of the cavity, foreign matters do not reach it, is not necessarily attended with pain. When the dentine is softened down to, or nearly down to the pulp, but yet there is no positive exposure, the pulp often passes into a con- dition known as "irritation" of the nerve. The pain in the tooth, if any, is moderate, and there is perhaps more general uneasiness in all the teeth than pain in any particular one. But there is greatly exalted sensibility in the tooth; it is very sensitive to changes of temperature, even though a sound surface of the tooth be touched, and it is tender to a jar. It is ready, at short notice, to pass into the condition of acute inflammation, in which the patient, previously afraid of the smallest variation of temperature, seeks relief by holding iced water in tlie mouth. Whenever a patient seeks to get relief from cold, the source of the pain is almost certainly an inflamed tooth-pulp. Irritation and subsequent inflammation and death of the pulp may take place without any exposure of the nerve, and even without caries ; thus, it not infrequently happens subsequently to the insertion of a filling, even where there has been no exposure of the pulp, and it is common in teeth which have become much worn down. When the pulp is in a state of acute inflammation, the orifice of ex- posure should be, if possible, sufficiently enlarged to allow of perfect application of the remedy to its surface, and the pulp destroyed by a dressing of about one-sixteenth of a grain of arsenious acid, applied on a tiny pledget of cotton wool, and carefully sealed in the cavity by gutta-percha, wax, or a large piece of wool dipped in an alcoholic solu- tion of gum sandarach. This will usually cause the death of the pulp in a few hours, but may wdth advantage be allowed to remain in the tooth for two days, when it should be removed, and the pulp, if dead, thoroughly removed, both from the pulp-chambor and the roots. When