SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE BLADDER, PROSTATE GLAND, ETC.. GOO of small size; whereas, after middle life and in old age, it may undergo considerable enlargement. The weight of this body averages from half an ounce to an ounce; but this, like its size, varies with the period of life, and in different individuals of the same age. The position of the prostate, or its attitude, must necessarily change, with the position of the pelvis,—in the recumbent or the erect state of the body. When recumbent, the pelvis has that position in which a line drawn through the prostate, from apex to base, would be directed obliquely downwards and backwards; the upper surface inclining backwards, and the lower surface somewhat forwards, the more so_ as the pelvis i's elevated ; and this corresponds with the position in which the prostate is generally submitted to surgical examination, or opera- tion, in connection with the bladder. In the erect state of the body, the axial line of the prostate falls from the oblique to nearly a hori- zontal direction; and when the trunk is inclined forwards, so as to pre- sent the fundament backwards, the prostate, its under surface, turns with it in the latter direction,—thus corresponding to the position in which the gland may be examined with the finger through the rectum. Certain relations of the prostate to surrounding parts have already been noticed incidentally, with reference to the neck of the bladder, the pelvic cavity, and the rectum. Thus, the base of the gland, around the neck of the bladder, receives also the common ejaculatory ducts, and it limits in front the triangnlar space which is free of peritoneum at the base of the bladder; the apex of the gland touches the triangular ligament and the membranous portion of the urethra, in the pubic arch, about an inch below the pubes; and its under surface rests upon, and is closely adherent to, the rectum, at its terminal portion, which then turns downwards to the anus. This under surface of the prostate and its base may be felt by introducing the finger through the anus into the bowel. The remaining surfaces have special relations to the recto-vesical fascia. Thus, the upper surface of the prostate, below the pubic symphysis, is covered by two strong, roundish bands, which form the anterior true ligaments of the bladder, with the dorsal vein of the penis lying between them; while the sides of the gland are covered by the broad and membranous lateral true ligaments of the bladder. But. in addition to these fascial prolongations, thus disposed, the remainder of the prostate receives an investment from the same fascia; forming altogether a complete sheath or capsule which envelops the gland. External to this capsule, the sides of the prostate are overlaid by the anterior fibres of the levatores ani muscles, one on each side, which passing down from the symphysis pubis, and spreading over the sides of the gland, unite together in front of the rectum, in the central tendinous point of the perineum, with the fibres of the external sphincter of the anus. Thus the prostate is slung by the levatores ani muscles, just as the rectum, and the vagina in the female, are also slung by these muscles; and these anterior portions of the muscular fibres, which are sometimes defined by a cellular interval, have been named levatores prostatce. In old persons, the rectum may have become much dilated above the anus, forming a pouch, which rises up and wraps around either side of the prostate, so as to enclose this body, except at its upper surface. The structure of the prostate gland was so far noticed in describing the shape of this organ, that it was seen to consist of three lobes: two VOL. II. 2 R