627 URINARY DEPOSITS. Fig. 861. paper. A deposit of yellow or red sand, resembling particles of cayenne pepper,—lithic acid, sometimes in great abundance. Diagnostic Value.—Litbic acid is eliminated from the blood, in combination with some base—soda, or ammonia more commonly, forming lithates of soda and ammonia. These salts, readily soluble in urine of the temperature of the body, are precipitated only when pre- sent in excess proportionately to the aqueous portion of urine secreted and as the supersaturated solution cools. They then appear as yellow- ish or red brick-dust deposits, which will be presently described. Lithic acid may, however, be liberated from these salts, by decomposi- tion ; but it occurs only when some other acid is present in excess to replace the acid in combination. Free lithic acid, being insoluble, is then precipitated, appearing as a deposit in the urine having the above characters. Microscopical Characters.—This deposit consists of minute crystals, in various shapes, of which ' rhomboidal prisms are the most commonly characteristic. (Fig. 861.) Respecting the kind of acid by which uric acid is thus de- posited, Dr. Parkes observes : * "It does not follow that the acidity should be owing to any single acid; it is owing either to an augmentation of all the usual acids of the urine — the sul- phuric, phosphoric, and perhaps the hippuric, the lactic, and the carbonic—so that the bases are insufficient to neutraHze them, or the formation of acids after emission of the urine, viz., probably the lactic, acetic, butyric, or oxalic. "It is, of course, possible that the deposit of uric acid may be owing, not to excess of other acids, but to absolute deficency of alkali. No facts have yet been discovered on this point. "The two causes of increased acidity of the urine—excess of normal acids, and formation of acid after emission—are sometimes in simultaneous action. The urine depositing lithic acid without lithates is not usually the high-coloured, red, pigment-loaded urine, but yellow and transparent; the acid is deposited slowly, and without admixture with lithates. Uroxanthin (indican) is often present in lar^-e quan- tity; and, as Yirchow suggests, it may more rapidly form alsid than common pigment." _ The practical issue of all these considerations is this—that to rightly estimate the value of " lithic acid urine," as the si^n of a corresponding " morbid blood-condition," it is necessary to discover the total amount of lithic acid excreted from time to time • and for this purpose we cannot trust any deposit thereof, either combined or free The bthates may be m excess, short of a supersaturated solution • and lithic acid itself becomes apparent only when the urine is hyper- acid from o^/ier causes. Remedi?;;'Tm° °^ ^"""^ ^'''^''^ ^^d- Action of