DISEASES OF THE NASAL FOSSiE. 277 means of the scissor-forceps, I have removed nasal polypi in a large number of cases, with comparatively little pain and haemorrhage ; and so far as I have been able to ascertain., has there been any return of the o-rowth, months or years after the operation. Ligature is chiefly appropriate when polypus passes through the pos- terior'nares, and hangs down in the pharynx—naso-pharyngeal polypus. The object of the operation by ligature is to accomplish strangulation, and separation of the polypus in the form of a slough. Accordingly, a loop of firm whipcord, catgut, or silver wire, is passed through the nostril into the pharynx, and expanded under the polypus, and drawn np around the peduncle, this noosing procedure being aided by intro- ducing the forefinger into the mouth. The ends of the cord, at the nostrils, are passed through a slender, double cannula, which is then slid along upon them through the nares to the polypus, when, by tightening and securing the ends of cord to the rings at the nasal extremity of the cannula, the peduncle of the polypus is strangled. The cannula may be introduced threaded with the whipcord, if this seem to be a more easy way of passing the loop. The cord must be tightened, through the cannula, from day to day, until separation of the tumour is effected. Sir W. Pergusson recommends separating the tumour at once, when this can be safely done, rather than allowing it to slough away. Hilton's snare instrument (Fig. 665) may be used for immediate strangulation and removal of a polypus, whether within the nasal fossa, or pendent in Fig. 665. the pharynx. In either modification of this operation, care must be taken, lest the tumour drop into the lower part of the pharynx or over the larynx, and cause suffocation ; and during the process of sloughing- separation, the head should be inclined forwards to avoid the risk of fatal systemic infection from the morbid secretion, a result which has actually occurred. Occasionally, it may be necessary to slit up the ala of the nostril, at its junction with the cheek, in order to gain access to the root of the tumour. A. buttonhole-like incision in the soft palate has been resorted to by Maissonneuve, so as to draw the polypus through the opening into the mouth, where it can be ligatured or cut off with the knife. The direc- tion of the button-hole is from before backwards, and the great elasticity of the soft palate readily allows the polypus to pass through a com- paratively small opening, which also generally closes without the aid of suture. This procedure—the loutonrhiere palatine—has yielded the most satisfactory results in the hands of M. Maissonneuve. A general clearance of the nares has been effected by drawing a plug from behind forwards—a brushing mode of extraction, suggested, 1