589 EECTAL FISTULiB. Rectal Fistula.—Fistulous communications are liable to form between the rectum and adjoinining organs: the bladder, as Recto- vesical Fistula, in the male; and the vagina, as Recto-vaginal Fistula, in the female. (1.) Becto-vesical Fistula is not often met with. It may result from disease, forming an ulcerative communication between the rectum and bladder, as in cancer Fig. 846.* of the gut (Fig. 846); or be of traumatic origin, as from a wound of the bowel in the operation of lithotomy. Signs.—The escape and discharge of the contents of either organ—of urine per amim, and of feculent matter and flatus per urethram —at once proclaims the nature of the lesion; while digital or ocular examination through a double-bladed anal speculum, will plainly de- tect the situation and size of the fistulous open- ing. "When resulting from disease, the can- cerous or simple nature of the fistula can thus also be readily discovered. Constant irritation, excoriation, and offensive odour accompany the discharge of urine and feculent matter ; the patient leading a life of seclusion and misery. Treatment.—The object is to close the fis- tulous opening; but the surgical procedure ap- propriate for this purpose must depend on the cause and extent of the opening. Cancerous fistula is incurable; and all that can be done is to palliate the patient's suffering, by opiate and detergent injections, with constitutional support. Traumatic fistula, if recent, and of small size, may perhaps be induced to contract and close, by introducing a pencil of nitrate of silver occasionally, or by means of the actual cautery,—a red-hot wire, or platinum wire heated by the galvanic current, as devised by Mr. Marshall; an anal speculum being used to protect the bowel, and effect the cauterization exactly within the fistulous opening. An old, callous fistula, and of larger size, cannot be closed in this manner; it will be necessary to lay it open, and convert the rectal or anal into a perineal fistula, so that it may granulate and heal from the bottom. This is accomplished by pass- ing a grooved staff through the urethra, and cutting down upon it; dividing the sphincter and intervening portion of bowel, A strip of lint is then placed in the wound. (2.) Becto-vaginal Fistula is usually of traumatic origin; the result of sloughing of the posterior wall of the vagina, from long-continued im- paction of the head or the use of instruments during parturition. The size of the opening varies considerably, from that of a small perforation to a large portion of the posterior vaginal wall. It may be complicated by laceration of the perineum. Signs.—The discharge of feculent matter and flatus from the vagina * Eoy. Coll. Surg. Mas., 1269. Kecto-vesical fistula, from cancerous ulceration. The ulcer of the rectum is deep and irregular, and extends from the level of the prostate gland for nearly tliree inches upwards; a soft, flat tumour, about two inches long, projects around the vesical aperture, just above the ureters. There was another such tumour, of smaller size, higher up on the wall of the bladder. All the tibsues around the rectum were indurated and contracted. (Hunterian.)