379 .LARYNGOTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY. ceeding than laryngotomy, particularly if the neck be short and fat, the veins turgid, and the trachea deep, small, and restless,—moving up and down with each effort of hurried and forcible respiration. All these adverse conditions attend the operation in children. The head being thrown straight back, an incision is made exactly in the middle line of the trachea, about an inch and a half to two inches long, extending from the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage downwards nearly to the top of the sternum. (Fig. 718.) The skin, superficial fascia, and fat are thus divided ; the opposed margins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles are then separated with the Fig. 718. Fig. 719. scalpel, and the veins in front of the trachea drawn out of the ' way to either side; any unusual artery, discovered by its pulsation Under the finger, is also avoided. The isthmus, or connecting central portion of the thyroid gland, may have to be drawn upwards; for, if wounded, the hasmorrhage is very troublesome. In children, the remnants of the thymus gland and vessels lie immediately over the trachea ; the thin, flattened lobes should be separated, and, with their vessels, drawn to either side. A tenaculum is dipped into the upper part of the trachea, which IS thus drawn upwards and steadied on the stretch; then, taking advantage of a favourable moment of exposure, the Sui^eon pushes the knife, with a slight jerk, into the lowest exposed portion of the ■trachea, and, carrying a small incision upwards, divides two or three of the cartilaginous rings of this tube. Occasionally, the rings being in an ossified state, they must be divided with a pair of strong scissors, ihe air rushing in and out again shows that the windpipe is opened, t)ut special care should be taken to prevent any oozing of blood arterial or venous, into the trachea. A curved tube of a conical siiape, flattened laterally, as recommended by Listen (Fig. 719), or a rectangular tube, should be introduced into the tracheal aperture.' The cannula should be of sufficient size to completely fill the tracheal in- ^^ision, and aUow of free respiration, " without," as Trousseau remarks, any whistling noise." In children, with croup, the tube should not Bxnp?7 ^""^"-^ ^"^y ^^^^^ membrane that is present has been Sni!?! ''It!^^^^*^'^- The introduction of the tube is sometimes S difficulty, owing to the elasticity of the tracheal rings, "iv-n partly close up the aperture even after division. One side