DISEASES OF THE IRIS. 207 ttirbance. Dover's powder is then a suitable narcotic, its sudorific influence also proving beneficial. In point of diet, sugar and sugar- forming substances should be forbidden. Local measures seem to be comparatively useless for subduing the inflammation; bleeding, by means of leeches, gives only temporary rehef, and blistering aggravates the neuralgia. Steaming the eyes with warm water may afford soothing comfort, with the instillation of atropine, or friction of the forehead every afternoon with extract of belladonna dissolved in warm laudanum, a drachm to the ounce ; or dry warmth by means of muslin bags filled with camomile flowers, heated in a saucepan. But perhaps the most soothing application is chloroform, diluted with olive oil, on lint, applied to the temple and forehead. The patient's room should be moderately darkened, and an eye-shade worn. Chronic sclerotitis does not affect the whole of the sclerotic coat at once, but appears as a limited patch of redness, close to the cornea; this fading away, it reappears elsewhere, always close to the cornea. Eventually, the cornea or iris may become involved, thus inducing opacity, or a very insidious iritis. Treatment consists in the same remedial measures and observance of diet, as in the acute form of sclerotitis ; but this plan of treatment must be pursued more or less for a long time. Any tendency to opacity of the cornea, or iritis, must be checked in limine ; calomel and opium being administered in small doses, while the circulation is sustained by bark and nutritious food. The Anteeioe Chambee.—A living entozoon—the cysticercus telce cellulosce—has not unfrequently been found in this situation. It is a rounded, semi-transparent, vesicular body, having a long, retractile neck, terminating in a head, furnished with suckers and a circlet of hooks. As a foreign body, it excites inflammation of the iris and cornea, ending in total blindness. A crescentic incision along the margin of the cornea lets out the animal with the aqueous humour. Perfect rest and protection from light should then be secured during the process of healing. A bandage, therefore, is worn over both eyes for the first twenty-four hours, and afterwards the wounded eye should still be kept closed as the incision unites and the aqueous humour is re-secreted. Any constitutional management will be suggested by the irritability, weakness, or other state of the patient. Diseases op the Iris.—(1.) Iritis.—Inflammation of the iris pre- sents certain characteristic appearances—chiefly a loss of the peculiar fibrous texture of the iris, a change of colour from dark to reddish or frona blue to greenish, diminished size and an irregular shape of the pupil, and early loss of its mobility, with a well-marked circum-corneal zone of redness. Sometimes, the conjunctiva becomino- involved it also IS injected; or the cornea appears slightly hazy. Intolerance of iigbt IS a symptom common to other ophthalmic affections; and deep- seated, radiating, and paroxysmal pain occurs, as in sclerotitis Lymph IS effused, producing further changes in the appearance of the iris; Its surface acquires a rusty, villous or nodular aspect, adhe- : sions take place forwards to the cornea, or backwards to the capsule of tne lens. Sometimes, the pupil becomes occluded with a film of Ivmph ; and the anterior chamber may be occupied by a more abundant effusion', iiie accompanying impairment of vision is proportionate in its com-