604 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 784* transyersalis with Poupart's ligaraeiit; and superiorly, it is limited only by the apposition of the muscles. The cord lies behind or underneath the hernia, the testis below and somewhat behind its lowest part—the fundus, and these two are always distinctly separate. (Pig. 784.) Occasion- ally, the elements of the cord are dispersed by the hernial descent; the vas deferens lying on one side and the spermatic vessels on the other; and rarely, the cord lies partially or entirely in front of the hernia, the testicle also below being in front. In the latter case sometimes, the elements of the cord are spread out in front of the hernia. The epigas- tric artery, arising from the external iliac about a quarter of an inch above Poupart's ligament, bends inwards and ascends beneath the fascia transver- salis, immediately behind and internal to the mouth of the sac—at the internal abdominal ring, which is thus placed external. (Fig. 785.) The course of this artery varies, however, with the duration of the hernia, and occasionally owing to an abnormal origin of the vessel. In Fig. 785.t Fig. 786. t old-standing hernia, the dragging pressure of the tumour downwards and inwards, curves the artery in that direction towards the outer edge of the rectus muscle ; until it may thus be brought internal to the situation of a direct hernia. (Fig. 786.) An ahiormal origin of the * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., E. 29. Sac of oblique inguinal hernia; showing testis at lower end, separate from the sac, and projecting into the cavity of a small tunica vaginalis. t Ibid., E. 35. Oblique inguinal hernia; showing epigastric artery below, and then on the inner side of the neck of the sac. The obdurator artery is given off about & third of an inch from the origin of the epigastric, and passes downwards on the outer side of the neck of the sac. The tunica vaginalis is laid open in front. t Eoy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 1322. Oblique inguinal hernia, on the right side; showing displacement inwards of the neck of the sac, drawing with it the epigastric artery, so far that the vessel reaches the lower part of the rectus muscle before it turns upwards. The neck of the sac being opposite the external abdominal ring, the straight direction of the hernia in the inguinal canal appears as if it were a direct inguinal hernia. The vas deferens and spermatic vessels, lying on the inner and posterior part of the sac, are widely separated from each other. (Howship.)