770 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. when of traumatic origin. Elastic instruments were originally intro- duced into surgery by Bernard, a Frencli goldsmith, who brought them before the Academy in 1779. Recently they have come into general use in America; and in this country principally by the advocacy of Mr. Teevan. This plan of treatment—by gradual dilatation—must be prolonged until the urethral canal is restored to its natural size, and the stream of urine fully established. The urethra may then admit a catheter of full size—No. 12—or a bougie of equal size, with ease ; when it should be passed less frequently, once in a week or ten days. Lastly, it will be necessary to maintain the patency of the canal, by an occasional use of the instrument once in a month or six weeks. In the course of treatment by dilatation, the general health should be attended to ; especially with regard to the digestive organs, and the state of the skin and kidneys. Continuous dilatation may be advantageously resorted to when the stricture proves obstinate under the ordinary plan of gradual dilata- tion. The principle is that of rapid dilatation and dissolution of the stricture, by retaining the instrument in the contracted portion o£ the canal for a period varying from forty-eight to seventy-two hours at a time. The catheter is fastened by means of tapes passed through the eyes of the instrument, on either side, and thence under the buttocks and over the thighs to a waist-band. If a gum-elastic catheter be used, it can be secured by a strip of adhesive plaster to the penis. A peg of wood or bit of cork is inserted into the orifice of the catheter, and the water drawn off as occasion requires. In the management of this process, three points must be ob- served :—the catheter should occupy the stricture, without fitting tightly or being grasped by it; the instrument, when tied in, should not project against the interior of the bladder; and after using a silver instrument on the first occasion, the succeeding instrument may be gum-elastic, as causing less irritation. When, in about forty-eight hours, the catheter has become loosened in the stricture, and a slight purulent discharge has taken place around the instrument, it should be withdrawn. In two or three days, this procedure is renewed, and an instrument larger by two or three sizes may be at once introduced; and so on until a full-sized one can be passed easily. Recontraction must then be prevented by occasionally passing an instrument, at gradually increasing intervals of time. Difficulties and Accidents in Gatheterism.—Induration or hardening of the stricture sometimes presents considerable difficulty to insertion of the point of the instrument. This may perhaps be overcome by using a conical-pointed elastic catheter, or bougie. But, if the stricture be not very sensitive, continued pressure on the face of the induration will probably cause the stricture to yield. Injecting the urethra witli four or five drachms of olive oil seems to exercise an hydraulic pressure on the stricture by penetration of the flaid into the narrowed passage. Spasmodic action must be overcome by the means appropriate for spasmodic stricture. False imssage.—A false passage, or a passage leading out of the natural urethral canal, is made by forcible and misdirected pressure