FBACTURES OF THE VAULT OF THE SKULL. 149 perhaps a fortnight or more after the contusion. The earliest local change is in the appearance of the wound, and of the bone, if exposed; or th°e formation of the small, pu% swelling. Either condition cpr- responds to the subcranial suppuration. This is accompanied with pains in the head, giddiness, and feverishness ; followed by rigors, sickness, drowsiness, occasional wandering, coma, or paralysis and death. Or, if the patient survives, he may suffer from chronic irrita- bility of the brain, or become imbecile, or be subject to epileptic attacks; various derangements of the special senses are not uncommon, such as deafness, defective vision; aphasia sometimes occars; and hemiplegic or local forms of paralysis may also be apprehended. (4.) Pycemia is apt to arise—possibly, from a simple wound of tbe scalp, as a fourtb consequence of contusion of the cranial bones. It may occur in two ways ; commonly in connection with intra-cranial suppuration; sometimes with suppuration of the diploe, the mem- branes of the brain remaining unaffected, and the veins of the diploe being apparently the source of purulent infection. Its accession is marked by rigors, greatly increased rapidity of pulse, and prostra/tion. It is very important to bear in mind these four consequences of otherwise slight injuries of the head :—death of the bone; or perhaps chronic ostitis; inflammation of the diploe, and its associated inflam- mation of the membranes of the brain, with intra-cranial suppuration; and pygemic infection. The Treatment for inflammation of the diploe from cranial contu- sion will be given in conjunction with Traumatic Inflammation of the Membranes of the Brain. Feacturbs of the Ckanidm.—These fractures are so intimately related, as causes, to Injuries of the Brain, that they should be first considered. (1.) Feactuees of-the Vault of the Skull.—Structural Conditions. —Fracture of any part of the vault may be : (a) Simple Fissure (Fig. 594), or a comminution of the bone ; the former is generally not limited to the 594.* seat of injury, perhaps passing through various bones, and often extending from the vault into the base of the skull; the latter, or Comminuted Fracture, is com- monly more hmited to the seat of in- jury,—although such fracture may be extensive, as in the cranial smash, or ecrasement, so named by French authors. Fissured and Comminuted Fracture sometimes co-exist, and especially when caused by a heavy blow acting on a large surface. Incoynplete Fracture, i.e. limited to the external or internal table alone, has been known to occur, but comparatively rarely. (h.) Depressed Fracture ; the displacement of the bone being inwards (Fig. 695), or outwards, very rarely. Either form of depressed fracture * St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 218a. Linear fracture of the frontal, left parietal, and temporal bones. From gunshot wound; the ball entering, by a cir- cular hole, just behind the external angular process of the frontal bone, on the 'light side. The inner table is more extensively injured than the outer.