CONDITIONS OF SHOULDER-JOINT DISEASE FOR EXCISION, G5 humerus and ulna in the elbow-joint. Ulceration of the articular carti- lages, with semiflexed position of the limb. Excision. Recovery, with a partially movable joint by passive motion, in two months. Perma- nent result, at the end of six months, uncertain. Case 5.—Lewis P . a3t. 50. Caries of the olecranon, of idio- pathic origin, ten months' duration and treatment; idiopathic abscess opposite the outer condyle of the humerus, six years previously. Carious bone gouged out of the olecranon. The joint opened in this procedure. Excision of the olecranon and of the end of humerus. Recovery, with a movable joint. Shoulder-joint.—Disease of the shoulder-joint occurs so much less frequently than that of other joints, as to considerably restrict the opportunities for clinical observation respecting its seat of origin, the probability of natural anchylosis ensuing, or the necessity for operative interference by excision to bring about that issue. The synovial mem- brane, in some cases, would appear to be the seat of the disease ; and then, suppuration being a rare event, fibrous anchylosis usually results. But caries, in other cases, is the mode of origin,—aiiecting the head of the humerus, less commonly the glenoid cavity, or only secondarily and partially; and then natural anchylosis rarely takes place. Caries, external to the joint, as of the coracoid process, the acromion, or spine of the scapula, must not be confounded with disease of the shoulder- joint. Thus may be recognized as indications for operation the following. Conditions of Shoulder-joint Disease appropriate for Excision :— (1.) When disease, commencing either in the synovial membrane, or as caries, has extended to and destroyed the articular cartilages of the head of the humerus, or of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, or of both surfaces; without the supervention of anchylosis. The constitutional condition should not have advanced to exhaustion; although, in even an extreme state of hectic and emaciation, recovery after excision of the shoul- Fig. 513.* der-joint is more probable than after such opera- ■ tion on any other large joint. Ifecrosis or caries of the head of the humerus generally necessitates excision of this portion of bone (Fig. 513); but sometimes, in central ne- ' crosis, the sequestrum can be extracted, without 1 excision. Caries or necrosis of the coracoid pro- I cess, or of the acromion, is, of course, a con- I dition of disease not requiring excision of the joint. (2.) Osseous anchylosis, a rare condition, ' with perhaps malposition of the limb, would - scarcely ever justify the risk of excision. The amount of bone to be removed is rarely extensive; the disease being limited usually to I the head of the humerus, while the glenoid I cavity is comparatively seldom affected, and even then may usually be ! left untouched, or only scraped. Operation.—'Excision of the shoulder-joint, for disease, is com- .-r. 7^^^^^'^ Hospital Mus. Caries of the head of the humerus. Excision. I (Dr. MackeUar.) Vut.. 11. „