494 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. a condition which may prove useful in plugging t,p the aperture although xt will interfere with the efficient applfcation ?f the pad of a truss Or the omentum is liable to become inflamed, to suppurate and slough ; delaying considerably the healing of the wound The safer practice, therefore, is to excise the protruding portion, rather than encounter the risk of leaving it. Lirjature of the mass is always necessary ; both to prevent the risk of hiemorrhage from the highly vascular omentum, and the peril of extravasation backward into the peritoneal cavity, beyond the reach of surgical interference, and which would be provocative of peritonitis. The mass may be ligatured by means of a single ligature of whipcord or catgut, tied tightly round the neck, or passed by transfixion, the loop divided, and each half tied separately ; or the omentum may be ligatured in successive portions, so as to tie the vessels separately. The one proceeding was formerly supposed to have the disadvantage of inducing peritonitis by constric- tion of the omentum; an evil consequence which has, however, been disproved by the results of more recent experience. Of twenty cases of hernia, at St. George's Hospital, in which the omentum was securely tied, a few died; but post-mortem examination showed the cause of death to have been, in all cases, independent of the ligature. But ligature of the vessels singly has the advantage of more surely pre- venting haamorrhage, when the ligatures become detached. In my own practice, I distinctly lost a patient owing to the uncontrollable hemorrhage arising from the separation of a single ligature around the omentum en masse. Excision should be performed close to the external aperture; care being taken to leave the stump of omentum in the aperture, and to secure it there by fixing the ligature cord or cords with a strip of plaster on the adjoining part of the abdomen. The stump, thus occupying the orifice, is free in the event of hjemor- rhage, and it forms a plug which permanently obstructs the descent of a hernia, and wbich is quite as effectual as when the whole mass is left. Ligature and excision of the omentum must always be very carefully performed; before applying the ligature, the omentum should be unfolded to see that it does not envelop a knuckle of intestine, and in using the knife, care must be taken not to touch the bowel. In a case of femoral hernia—entero-epiplocele—I removed a portion of omentum, the size of a hen's egg, and which weighed If oz. But larger portions, even five and six ounces, have been taken away with safety. The formation of a regular " omentum sac " around the intestine is described by Mr. Prescott Hewett, in the " Med.-Chir. Trans." of 1844, and in the "Path. Trans.," vol. iii. Gysts, containing serous fluid or blood, are occasionally met with in the omentum; they resemble a knuckle of intestine. Their nature having been ascertained, the fluid maybe discharged by puncture. The omentum is then managed according to the rules already laid down. Accidents in the Operation.—Wound of the intestine happens occa- sionally ; this accident occurred in the skilled hands of Sir A. Cooper, and in those of Sir W. Lawrence, Listen, Jobert, and J. Cloquet. It is liable to happen in either stage of the operation; in opening the sac, or in dividing the stricture. The one occasion of accident may generally be avoided by observing the precautions enjoined, in open- ing the sac; and the other by equally protecting the gut, in dividing