6G9 URINARY CALCULI. frequently examined. If, at any time, it becomes ammoniacal, as denoted by the odour and muco-purulent deposit, the solvent treat- ment must be suspended. So long as the urine remains free from ammoniacal taint when passed, there will be no risk of any deposition of the mixed phosphates encrusting the stone. Injection.—The other method of applying solvent agents is restricted chiefly to calculi which are soluble in acids—phosphatic calculi. Alkalies, administered by injection, have very little effect on uric acid calculi; and acids pass thrdugh the kidneys only in very small pro- portions. The injection method of treatment is, however, somewhat in this dilemma, that the solution, if strong enough to have any useful effect, may endanger the coats of the bladder; and if suificiently diluted to avoid this danger, any solvent action on the stone is very uncertain. A weak solution of nitric acid—two or two and a half minims of the strong acid to the ounce of distilled water—was used by Sir B. Brodie, for the solution of phosphatic calculi by injection; and with the result of greatly reducing the size of the stone, or even at length accomplishing its entire dissolution. A weak solution of acetate of lead—one grain to the ounce—with a mere trace of free acid, was the preparation and strength employed by Dr. Hoskins. After lithotrity, injection may be used, as a solvent method of treatment adjunctive to, or as a substitute for, the operations of crush- ing fragments. The comparative merits of these two modes of pro- cedure—the chemical solution, or mechanical crushing of stone in the bladder—must be determined by their relative speed and safety in effecting a cure. Good results have been obtained; notably in a case by Mr. Southam, of Manchester. After repeated lithotrity, fresh phosphatic concretions continued to form in the bladder as fast as the old ones were crushed, so that the bladder could not be cleared. The mechanical operation having thus failed, an injection, containing two drachms of dilute nitric acid to a pint of water, was resorted to every day, or every second day. In the course of a short time, the old frag- ments were entirely dissolved, and the formation of new concretions prevented. Injection may be performed through a double-current catheter, whereby a continuous stream of the solvent is made to act upon the stone. (h.) Electrolysis, or the dissolution of stone in the bladder by the transmission of an electric or galvanic current, has had its advocates. Sir. W. B. O'Shaughnessy, Dr. Bence Jones, Dr. L. Melicher, and Gruithuisen, have severally attempted this method of treatment. It will be seen that the foregoing methods of treating urinary calculi apply only to excep- tional cases. Renal Calculus.—A stone forming in the pelvis of the kidney may,