SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 46 The feram* has been divided, either between the trochanters, or in the neck, or just below both trochanters; and with successful re- sults. In the first-named situation, section was originally proposed and performed by Dr. Rhea Barton, of Philadelphia, in 1826. A crucial incision was made over the great trochanter, seven inches in length and five inches in the horizontal direction; a fine saw was introduced, the femur divided transversely between the trochanters, and the limb brought down. The result was successful; an artificial movable joint formed; but seven years afterwards, anchylosis ensued, and two years subsequently the man died of phthisis, nine years after the operation. A similar operation in situation—between the tro- chanters, but an excision of a transverse plate of bone, of an elliptical form upwards, by means of the chain-saw, was performed by Dr. Lewis A. Sayre, of New York, in two cases, both in the year 1862. The object of this procedure was to form a false joint, of a ball-and-socket character. The first case was completely successful at the end of six months, the patient, aged twenty-six, being able to stand on either leg without crutch or cane ; and upwards of five years afterwards the result was permanent, the man could move and walk with practical . agility. In the second case, the operation was followed by abscess and necrosis ; but the patient, a female aged twenty-four, died, apparently of tubercular pneumonia. Post-mortem examination showed that an artificial joint had formed; the articular surfaces were tipped with cartilage and provided with a synovial membrane, and there was a complete capsular ligament. Subcutaneous section, and higher up, in the neck of the femur, was first proposed and practised by Mr. William Adams, in December, 1869. The object of this procedure was to procure an artificial mov- able joint; that result having failed. Fig. 501, osseous anchylosis, but with the limb in a straight position, was sought to be es- tablished, and obtained. A long teno- tomy knife was entered a little above the great trochanter, and passed down to the neck; the capsular fragment was opened freely, and the neck of bone divided by a narrow saw, applied from before backwards. (Fig. 501.) The ten- dons of the long head of the rectus, the adductor longus, and tensor vagina3 femoris muscles, were then divided ; the limb was brought down straight, and fixed by a long inteiTupted Listen's splint. Five months after this opera- tion, and subsequent treatment, the man, aged twenty-four, was exhibited at the Medical Society of London, where he walked about the room without any as- sistance—a successful result which has since become permanently secured. The annexed figures represent the appearances of the limb, before and after operation; in the latter, the patient standing on the limb, to show the restored usefulness of the member. (Figs. 502, 508.)