SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 274 Fig. 662. extending perhaps an inch from before backwards (Fig. 662); some- times growing from the other turbinate and ethmoid bones; occasionally from the roof of the nares, or even from the frontal sinuses or antrum; never from the septum. More than one polypus usually forms at the same time; and, several coexisting, each has a distinct peduncular attachment. But the lowest or most anterior readily presents downwards in the open nostril, while the others are con- cealed and compressed; one overlying another or others, like toadstools in their growth. Polypi may form in both nares simultaneously. The growth increases in size rather slowly and gradually, restricted, pro- bably, by the osseous boundaries of the nares. Occupying, and more or less completely blocking up the passage, the tumour may come for- wards to and through the nostril, or extend backwards over the soft palate to the fauces, and hang down into the pharynx. The bones and cartilages seldom become diseased, but displaced; thus enlarging the nasal fossa, and resulting in considerable expansion of the nose. Hav- ing a succulent character, owing to its cellular structure, this species of polypus is hygrometric ; diminishing in dry, warm weather, and increasing and becoming plump, or even protruding, in moist weather. It may occur at any period of life, but is most common in adults. The symptoms are—a sense of stuf&ng in the nostril, as if proceeding from a constant cold in the head, andwhich varies with the state of the weather. A thin mucous discharge from the nose, and fits of sneezing, complete the illusion. Respiration through the nares becomes embar- rassed more and more, the patient breathing with his mouth open, and sleeping thus with his head thrown back, snoring loudly. The voice acquires a nasal twang, is indistinct and snuffling; and the special senses, connected with surrounding organs, become affected by the polypoid growth. Smell and taste are impaired or lost. Deafness ensues, due, as Mr. Toynbee states, to a coexistent thickening of the membrana tympani. In addition to symptoms, certain phenomena may be elicited. On stopping the free or partially free nostril, by pressing that side of the nose with the finger, the patient cannot breathe through the affected nostril, or imperfectly, the air being expressed by a forcible effort, with a whizzing or singing sound. The patient then feels some- thing shifting its place to and fro in the nasal cavity, and the Surgeon hears a peculiar noise, like, as Dupuytren compared it, to the flapping of a flag. Sometimes the polypus thus descends into sight. On direct- ing the patient's head backwards, the polypus will be seen, or brougnt into view by dilating the nostril a little with a bivalve nasal speculum; and the tumour is observed to have the characteristic appearances already mentioned. Ultimately, the nose acquires a peculiar broad, laterally dilated, or frog-faced aspect; giving a singularly heavy, stupid expression to the upper part of the face. Diagnosis.—Gelatinous polypus must be distinguished from common