490 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. genera ly applicable ; either by opening the hernial sac, exposing its contents, and dividing the stricture, wherever situated, witJdn the sac ■ or by dividing the stricture outside, leaving the sac unopened,—as was P^^fo;-?^ed by Petit in 1718, and reintroduced by Aston Key (1829), and Luke (1831). Of the two latter authorities, the one wrote an admirable memoir " On the Advantages and Practicability of ^ividmg the Stricture in Strangulated Hernia on the Outside of the bac, 1833 ; the valuable paper of the other appeared in the " Med.-Chir, Trans.," vol. xxxi. M. Guerin has divided the stricture subcutaneously as described in the " Gaz. Med. de Paris," Aug., 1841. Conditions for choice of either Operation.—Th&i of not opening the sac is always preferable, from its comparative safety and simplicity, whenever it will probably be effectual for the relief of strangulation and reduction of the hernia. The guiding principle of choice may perhaps be thus enunciated:—whenever the symptoms are of such moderate severity that the hernial contents might be safely returned by taxis—were it practicable—any existing stricture outside the sac may be divided and the hernia reduced ; on the contrary, whenever the symptoms are of such sevei'ity as would indicate a state of the bowel, especially, which would be hazardous to attempt to reduce by taxis, the sac must then be opened. Hence, Mr. Birkett would define the follow- ing to be the principal conditions that should determine this election: —For not opening the sac,—that the symptoms of strangulation have existed only a few hours and have not been very severe, the vomiting not stercoraceous, nor prostration extreme, the hernia a simple entero- cele, and which has not been subjected to forcible attempts at reduction; for opening the sac,—-prolonged strangulation, stercoraceous vomiting and marked prostration, the hernia compound—an entero-epiplocele, and which has been subjected to repeated, protracted, or forcible taxis. Duly comparing these opposite conditions of operation, it will appear that the number of cases of strangulated hernia eligible for operation, without opening the sac, is unfortunately very limited. In old-standing hernia, and of large size—as many scrotal hernias— the stricture should always be divided, if possible, without opening the sac; for the exposure of so large a peritoneal cavity, and the division of adhesions, would almost certainly be followed by fatal peritonitis. The protruded viscera had better be left within the sac, rather than returned into the abdomen, which has become unfitted to accommodate them, and where the hernial aperture will probably be so large that they cannot be kept up. The relative results of both modes of operation may be gathered sufiiciently from the following statistics:—Out of 84 cases of hernia operated on by Mr. Luke, in 25 the sac was opened, and 8 died; whereas, in 59 the sac was not opened, and only 7 died. The additional cases reported by Mr. N. Ward give a total of 36 deaths in 153 cases of Petit's operation. On the other hand, of 77 cases reported by Sir A. Coo]3er, in which the sac was opened, 3G proved fatal; and of 545 cases collected by Dr. Turner, 260 died. Regarding femoral hernia in particular, where the stricture is commonly outside the sac, of 31 cases operated on by Luke, in 7 only was it necessary to open the sac. Inguinal hernia cannot generally be relieved externally; of 20 cases operated on by the same Surgeon, in 13 it was necessary to open the sac.