SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 290 immediate mode of replacement has proved successful. If the piece be connected to a perfect septum nasi, it will probably be necessary to remove a triangular bit, base downwards, out of the latter—a,s Blandin suggested—before attempting to press back the projection. But the excision of the inter-maxillary mass will be desirable—as Sir W. Fer- gusson recommends—whenever its projection offers the least obstruction to the easy apposition of the lip-fissure. The reasons for removing this bony prominence are—that the incisor teeth will probably become imper- fectly developed, and ill-placed backwards, being of no value for use or appearance; and that, while compression may fail in double inter- maxillary projection, one such portion of bone will be even more resis- tant, for its attachment, on one side, is firmer. If there be a coexisting cleft in the hard palate, it will probably become narrower when the inter-maxillary portion of bone is removed ; and thus an artificial palate can be applied with greater advantage, in after years. The results of operation for hare-lip have been generally successful. Thus, in the hands of Professor Pirrie, of 266 cases, the operation proved perfectly successful in 264; perhaps the largest experience of any Surgeon, but which I can support by a more limited number of excellent results, except an occasional indentation on the labial border. Diseases.—Hypertrophy of one or both lips sometimes accompanies the irritation of a crack or fissure, or it remains after the fissure has healed, and the source of irritation apparently has ceased. In the one condition, the fi.ssure should be treated on ordinary principles, that the hypertrophied enlargement may subside; or, this remaining, an elliptical portion of the mucous membrane of the lip may be excised, and the wound united by sutures. Ulceration of a simple character, though perhaps chronic, is liable to occur on any part of the labial mucous membrane; either as a result of the irritation of a sharp portion of tooth, or of a false tooth, or in connection with a disordered state of the stomach and bowels. The treatment having reference to these causes will be, to remove any source of irritation, oral or gastro-intestinal, and to touch the ulcer with nitrate of silver. TuMOUBS.—The lower lip is more commonly the seat of various forms of tumour. JEncysted tumour, small and semi-transparent, and containing a glairy fluid, resembles ranula in appearance, but that swelling is situated under the tongue. Excision of the cyst, by careful dissection, is the most certain cui-e; or snipping the cyst, and freely cauterizing its interior with nitrate of silver, may not be followed by a return of the tumour. Erectile tumour of the lip admits of removal by excision, ligature, or strong cauterization. The size and situation of the growth will determine the choice of these modes of treatment. Epithelial Cancer affects the lower lip, very rarely the upper lip. Commencing as a small warty growth on the lip, or as an indoleut tubercle, or as an excoriation of the mucous membrane, surrounded by an inflamed and thickened base, the disease is primarily situated in, or just beneath, the skin or mucous membrane, at or near the junction of the two in the red margin of the lip. Spreading thence, the wart grows in breadth and thickness, the tubercle peels and ulcerates, or the excoriation deepens. Eventually, the ordinary cha-