CONTUSION OF THE EYE. FOREIGN BODIES. 187 ,on the eye, and is attributable to fracture of the bones of the nose, and laceration of the mucous membrane, permitting air to penetrate into the subcutaneous connective tissue. Concussion of the retina may accompany this palpebral lesion, followed by temporary or perma- nent loss of sight. In such cases ophthalmoscopic examination' will sometimes demonstrate patches of ecchymosis on the retina. Contusion of the eyeball presents the appearances of blood extrava- sated into the chambers of the eye, and especially into the anterior chamber, partly or wholly concealing the iris and pupil. Extravasation may here also undergo absorption, in a period varying from a week or two to some months, according to the suppression of inflammation. Bupture of the eyeball, produced by a blow, is always a very serious injury; comprising escape of the aqueous humour, with perhaps _ de- tachment of the iris, or dislocation of the crystalline lens forwards into the anterior chamber or backwards into the vitreous humour. Some- times this humour escapes, and the globe of the eye collapses. Intense inflammation follows any rupturing injury. The treatment of contusion varies with the damage done. An ordinary black-eye may be left to itself, or the disfigurement chased away by arnica lotion. The mouse's-back bruise produced by the pounding fist of a prize-fighter has, I believe, been removed by puncturing and sucking out the blood. Contusion involving the eyeball must be promptly met by measures preventive of inflammation, as by the application of cold compresses, with moderate pressure, rest in a darkened room, purging, etc.; while rupture of the ball usually requires some kind of operative interference. Thus, an artificial pupil may have to be made; or, if much vitreous humour have escaped or haemorrhage taken place, if the lens be rendered opaque, or the retina detached, the immediate removal of the eye should be recommended. Foreign Bodies.—Yarious kinds of foreign bodies are apt to enter the eye ; a grain of sand or particle of brick or mortar, lime, flint, shot, or other matter to which the eye may perchance be exposed by occu- pation, amusement, accident, or in the event of malicious intent. Such bodies lodge commonly in the conjunctiva, and under either lid; occasionally they are impacted in the cornea, or penetrate deeply into the eye. The exposed part of the eye can readily be inspected; the inside of the lower lid and lower part of the globe, simply by depressing the lid with the finger, so as to evert the lid, while the patient is desired to look up; or the upper lid and corresponding part of the globe can be examined by raising the lid as the person looks downwards. To com- pletely inspect this lid, it is necessary to evert it; a little procedure easily accomplished by laying a probe across the globe of the eye at the back of the lid, then taking the eyelashes between the finger and thumb and turning the lid upwards over the probe, thus exposing the palpe- bral cartilage. Sometimes, however, the eye is shut forcibly and screwed up, by the pain of irritation, or timidity of the patient; and eversion cannot be at once effected. Treatment.—Removal of a foreign body from the conjunctiva can generally be accomplished by a light touch with a probe or fine scoop, the hand resting steadily on the cheek; or a camel's-hair brush may be employed more effectually, and the eye swept round to remove more than one particle. In the Welsh irou-mimng districts, the workmen