Fig. 940.* SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 808 the whole the character of an oleaginous mass. The blood-vessels become much enlarged and varicose, so that the fibroid structure is remarkably vascular. The crcmastcr has been found thickened, and the spermatic cords elongated ; but the testes are usually healthy. Hydrocele occasionally coexists, or sometimes scrotal hernia. The whole mass is pendulous, and of a globular, ovoid, or pyriform shape. Causes.—A low chronic inflammation would seem to be the origin of this disease; and it commences either at some one point, thence spreading gradually over the scrotum, or as a tumefaction of the whole bag. There may be some locally exciting cause, as a fistulous tract; more frequently, no source of irritation can be traced. The part may remain smooth, or become tuberculated and cor- rugated ; in either case, it has Httle or no ten- dency to ulcerate, unless in consequence of abrasion. Slowly increasing, without pain, the scrotal hypertrophy often attains an enormous bulk (Fig. 940), and weighs 50, 100, or even 150 pounds; ultimately proving fatal by its distressing weight, or perhaps by the super- vention of ulceration and incessant ichorous discharge. Sometimes, the mass falls into a state of gangrene, and thus the patient dies, as in a case related by Hendy. Ichthyosis not unfrequently coexists in other parts of the body. Cases of Elephantiasis of the scrotum have been recorded by Clot-Bey, of Egypt; by Liston, Key, Sir W. Fergusson, Mr. Isaacson, Mr. Brett, Mr. Haynes Walton, and Mr. Wiblin, of Southampton; while numerous examples have been contributed, princijially from the experience of Delpech, Larrey, Titley, Picton, Thebaud, Bozeman, O'Farrall, and Fayrer. Treatment.—In the early stage of this dis- ease, it may perhaps be arrested by pressure and other means of allay- ing chronic inflammation of the skin. Such treatment failing to take effect, recourse must be had to the operation of excision, without delay. Excision.—When the tumour is of moderate size, the testes and penis may be dissected out and saved; the haemorrhage not proceeding to a dangerous extent. When the tumour has attained to a large size —forty pounds and upwards—it must be excised en masse, including the genital organs; the hemorrhage of a partial excision would be so profuse as to be fatal during the operation; and even with the rapidity of complete excision, patients have sunk from loss of blood. To pre- vent the risk of hemorrhage, a clamp should be applied to the neck of the tumour, or a cord ligature, or the tumour may be raised for half an hour before the operation, in order to drain back the blood into the general circulation. In Mr. Walton's case, the scrotum was first tied in small segments close to the trunk, and the mass removed below the ligatures; then, as each strangulated part was liberated, the vessels were secured. The scrotum weighed eight or nine pounds, and the patient recovered. * From photograpli to Author, by Sir Joseph Fayrer.