640 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the facility with which the composition of diabetic sugar is changed; and this can be readily effected by salts of copper, and by alkalies.*' Full directions for the successful application of these tests are given in Grolding's Bird's work:;t the following particulars, however, are essential to onr purpose—the early and exact detection and discrimina- tion of diabetic urine :— Cojjper, or Trammer's Test.—Add to the suspected urine in a large test-tube just enough of a solution of sulphate of copper to communi- cate a faint blue tint. A slight deposit of phosphate of copper generally falls. Liquor potassa3 must then be added in great excess; a precipitate of hydrated oxide of copper first falls, which redissolves in the excess of alkali, if sugar be present, forming a blue solution like ammoniuret of copper. Ou gently heating the mixture to ebullition, a deposit of red suboxide of copper falls, if sugar be present. GappezzuoU's Test-—Add a few grains of blue hydrated oxide of copper to urine in a conical glass vessel, and render the whole alkaline by adding liquor potassEe. If sugar be present, the fluid assumes a reddish colour, and in a few hours the edge of the oxide deposit acquires a yellow colour, which gradually extends through the mass, owing to the reduction of the oxide to a metallic state (suboxide ?). Potash or Moore's Test.—Place in a test-tube about two drachms of the suspected urine, and add nearly half its bulk of liquor potassge. Heat the whole over a spirit-lamp, and allow active ebullition to con- tinue for a minute or two ; the previously pale urine will become of an orange-brown or even a bistre tint, according to the proportion of sugar present. The subsequent addition of an acid generally causes the evolution of an odour of boiling molasses. Should the liquor potassee contain lead, a dark colour is produced by the sulphur in the urinary excretion acting on it, which might lead one to suspect the presence of sugar when none exists—a source of error first pointed out by Dr. Owen Rees. Hence it is important to preserve the test-solution in bottles of green glass free from lead. For Traces only of Sugar.—Certain tests are appropriate for the detection of sugar, when present in otherwise unappreciable small quantity—as a mere trace. The application of such tests implies the previous separation of some of the other constituents, which would interfere with their action. (a.) Briicke's Test.—Add to the suspected urine neutral acetate of lead, and afterwards basic acetate of lead. Separate the precipitate by filtration, and add ammonia to the solution. The precipitate, by ammonia, is decomposed by oxalic acid, or suspended in water, and sulphuretted hydrogen passed through it. The filtered solution con- tains the sugar, which can then be detected by any of the tests already described. This process will detect the seventh of a grain of sugar, diluted with more than six ounces of water ; and two-thirds of the whole quantity of sugar present in a solution can be separated. (i.) Maumene's Test.—Soak strips of woollen rag in a solution of perchloride of tin—one part of perchloride to two parts of water—for four or five minutes. Dry the slips over a water-bath. Let fall a drop of the suspected urine on one of these prepared strips, dry it, and * See "Med.-Chir. Eeview," January, 1853. (Lionel Beale.) t " Urinary Deposits," etc. Edited "by Dr. Birkett.