541 UMBILICAL HERNIA. ing its applicability, it is said that, in favourable cases of -ambilical hernia in the adult, this operation may be tried with but little danger, considerable probability of success, and the certainty of not rendei'ing the state of things worse by interference. Other Surgeons have successfully efEected a radical cure by operation; Mr. Bar- well on three patients at the respective ages of six months, fifteen months, and eight years ; and Mr. H. Lee has also cured cases on the plan of the operation already described. Desault revived an old operation,—the application of a ligature around the base of the um- bilical tumour, care being taken to first empty it of its contents. Strangulation is followed by detachment in a week or ten days, when the hernial aperture may have become united, and is obliterated as the ulcer heals. In more than fifty consecutive cases, this method of treatment is said to have proved a radical cure. On the same principle, Mr. C. Heath, in a case of strangulated umbilical entero-epiplocele, having returned the bowel, dissected the sac away, and passing a ligature through its base and the omentum, these were then removed. Recovery ensued, and some time after no hernial protrusion had re- curred. But the principle of these operative procedures cannot be recommended; for experience has shown that ligature of the sac of peritoneum often causes symptoms of strangulation as if the intestine were involved; cases of this kind having occurred in the practice of Petit. The mere removal of the sac would be useless. In femoral hernia this procedure was resorted to by Sir A. Cooper, but the hernial protrusion soon returned. Considering the strong tendency to a natural cure, in infancy, when the abdominal aperture is properly sup- ported and for a sufficient period, it will always be a serious question whether any cutting operation is justifiable. Irreducible umbilical hernia must be treated on the usual principle of support and protection by means of a bag-truss, or a concave metal shield, padded, which I have known to afiEord great comfort. Much relief may be obtained from the constipation and dyspeptic symptoms which occur, by occasionally kneading back into the abdomen the masses of feculent matter which accumulate in the intestine, when pro- truded, and the hernia is of large size. The diet and state of the bowels must be constantly regulated. Strangulation rarely arises. The symptoms of obstruction and nausea or vomiting, may be those of incarceration, and are mostly dependent on a flatulent and loaded state of the intestinal canal; and this can generally be overcome by purgatives and enemafca, with re- employment of the taxis a second and a third time, at intervals of two or three hours. On the other hand, the symptoms of true strangu- lation are very insidious in umbilical hernia, especially when the tumour is old-standing and irreducible. Consequently, timely recourse to operation must not be overlooked. The operation is very simple. An incision in the middle line over the upper part of the neok of the tumour, and to about two inches in extent, will generally sufiice to reach the constriction at the umbilical aperture. A longer incision, unless absolutely requisite, might allow of further protrusion, convolutions of intestine rolling out durino' each act of expiration. The constriction would thus be obscured, and the bowel liable to be punctured. This incision should be superflcial, passmg through the skin only, and the fascial coverings should then