542 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 821 * be carefully divided—using a director, as the sac is soon reached ; the finger-nail is inserted under the firm margin of the aperture, and the stricture slightly divided upwards, without opening the sac, and the , he rnia returned into the abdomen; or, if reduction cannot thus be effected, the sac must be opened, and the constriction divided within, upwards in the same line as the first incision. The omentum and bowel are then managed on general principles. Any other situation around the neck of the tumour may be selected for operation, when more convenient with regard to the position of the neck ; and the stricture may be safely divided at any such point in the circumference of the umbilical aperture, there being no vessel fairly within the war of the knife in any direction. This operation has been performed during pregnancy, a complication not much affecting the case, and instances of successful results are recorded by Sir A. Cooper and Lawrence. After the operation, under any circumstances, a large flat pad- compress must be applied over the hernial aperture, and retained in position by a broad flannel roller. In the event of artificial anus resulting from a gangrenous state of the bowel, as a rare occurrence in umbilical hernia, this complication must be treated on the general principles already explained. Ventral Heknia signifies a protrusion through any other part of the abdominal wall, except the apertures already noticed. Commonly, this hernia takes place at the linea alba (Fig. 821), the linea transversae, or more externally, at the linese semilunares. The anatomy of ventral hernia may be inferred from the particular part of the abdominal wall, which happens to yield; any such protrusion is usually the result of some lacerative or rup- turing injury, favoured perhaps by some na- tural weakness, or over-distension of the ab- dominal wall. The characters of the tumour are similar to those of umbilical hernia, and the treatment is the same ; but, as the hernial aperture is generally ill-defined and perhaps of some size, the broad, flat swelling can be more easily reduced, and seldom is followed by the symptoms of strangulation. Careful examina- tion of the abdomen may be necessary to discover the protrusion when deeply imbedded in a fat person, for no tumour may then be perceptible on the surface. LuMBAK Hernia may be described as a variety of the preceding; but the tumour projects in the loins, between the crest of the ilium and the last rib. Cloquet first drew attention to hernia in this situation. It arises usually from contusion or laceration of the lumbar muscles. Dr. Chapplain relates the case of a man who, after a violent squeeze between a wall and a carriage, found a tumour in his loin ; and Mr. Kingdon saw a case where the bowel protruded just above the crest of the ilium at its highest point, about three inches from the spine, in * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mi:.s., K. 100. Ventral hernia; showing the protrusion to be above the umbilicus. Between the sac and fascia there is a laj'cr of fat. lu the posterior part of the preparation, the umbilical vein would be seen to pass into the mouth of the sac. (Sir A. Cooper.)