TRAUMATIC PERITONITIS. 465 testine, cannot be closed efEectually by suture; it will almost inevitably reopen by sloughing ; and a wound of intestine already gangrenous is unfit for reduction. In tliese exceptional conditions, tbe formation of an artificial anus will be expedient or unavoidable. The after-treatment of wounded intestine, with, or without pro- trusion, is the same as that of rupture. The principle being to prevent any peristaltic action which might disturb the process of reparative adhesion, opium should be administered to confine the bowels for a week, when a castor-oil enema may be given. During this period the diet should be sparing and exclusively fluid; subsequently, a small quantity only of light solid food may be gradually allowed for two or three weeks. Protrusions of other abdominal organs have been dealt with by excision or ligature. Portions of the spleen, or of the pancreas, have thus been removed, and successfully. Traumatic Peritonitis,—Inflammation of the peritoneum, conse- quent on injury, whether contusion or wound of the abdomen, or arising from extravasation—feculent or alimentary, bilious, urinary, or sanguineous—is denoted by certain characteristic symptoms. Pain and great tenderness on the slightest pressure, spread from the seat of injury over the abdomen, accompanied with tympanitic distension and resonance on light percussion. A dry tongue, which soon becomes brown, constant nausea or vomiting, and obstinate constipation, are the main gastro-intestinal symptoms. The patient lies recumbent, with his knees drawn up to relax the abdominal muscles, as the easiest position; he breathes entirely by the thorax, the abdomen scarcely moving with each respiration; and the expression of countenance is anxious, with perhaps a nipped appearance of the nose,—owing ap- parently to dilatation of the nostrils and a bleating action of the alar cartilages, in connection with the short and hurried breathing. A distressing hiccup often adds further embarrassment; so that the patient speaks with a panting and broken voice. The pulse is rapid, small, and hard, often feeling like a wire drawn under the finger; in- creasing rapidly to 100, 120, or more beats per minute, it becomes proportionately weak and irregular as vital power declines. Effusion takes place into the cavity of the peritoneum, and resonance is then exchanged for dulness on percussion; commencing in the flanks, where the fluid portion first accumulates, and gradually extending over the abdomen, as it increases in quantity. The lymph effused, com- monly of greenish-yellow colour, may be fibrinous and plastic in. character, fitted for adhesive reparation; or corpuscular and curdy, with an abundance of yellow serum, or sero-purulent fluid. The peritoneal sui-face is more or less injected, both in its visceral and parietal aspects ; the tint of redness and form of vascularity varying in different parts of the membrane. Peritonitis after abdominal injury begins usually in about twenty-four hours, or from that to three days subsequently; as acide inflammation, it may run its course rapidly, in either of these periods or longer, and sometimes it assumes a chronic form. Plastic or reparative peritonitis is of a sthenic character; cor- puscular, and especially purulent, peritonitis is of an asthenic character, and speedily fatal. ' Treatment.—These two general characters of Peritoneal inflam- mation indicate the plan of treatment. In both forms of the disease VOL. n. 2 H '