SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 750 Fig. 914.* encroaclnTig on the rectum, or coming forward out of the mouths of the distended prostatic pouches into the prostatic urethra; thence it extends forwards, or backwards into the bladder, forming a prostato- vesical calculus. Sometimes one or more prostatic calculi become detached, tree and movable in an open duct. These enlarged calculi have a very irregular or branched appearance. A remarkable prostatic calculus was presented by Dr. H Barker to the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. It has a pyriform shape; measures in length nearly five inches, in circumference at its thickest part four inches and five-eighths; and weighs three ounces and a half. The stone consists of twenty-nine pieces, the facets oE which are regularly fitted together; indicating that its formation took place in the crypts of the prostate, separately, and that the pieces coalesced by subsequent absorption of the glandular substance, thus resulting in this multiple calculus. The stjmptoms to which prostatic calculi give rise, depend princi- pally on their size. When small, there may be no symptoms, or such slight inconvenience as not to attract attention. When of larger size, they are attended with pain and weight in the perineum, and uneasi- ness at the neck of the bladder; there is frequent micturition, sometimes retention, and difficulty in the emission of semen, al- though attacks of priapism may have misled the suiierer to more frequent sexual inter- course. All these symptoms point to an en- larged and irritated prostate; and, by urethral or rectal exploration, one or more stones can be touched with an instrument, or felt through the prostate with the finger. (Fig. 914) On passing a sound through the urethra, a distinct click or grating is heard and felt, just before the beak of the instrument enters the bladder; a deeply imbedded calculus may be felt, on passing the finger up the rectum, or by simultaneous examination wdth the finger and sound. A large number of small stones communicate to the finger a crackling or grating sensation, like that of small marbles in a bag. As the result of prolonged irritation, suppuration may ensue, forming prostatic abscesses. Having found a calculus in the prostate, what treatment should be adopted? When there are no urgent symptoms, the case may bo wisely left alone, so far as regards any attempts to remove the stone by operative interference. Symptoms of irritation can perhaps be sub- dued by opiate suppositories, and careful regulation of the bowels to prevent any rectal constipation; while retention of urine is relieved by using the catheter as occasion requires. If the calculi are small and movable, they may admit of extraction through the urethra, by means of a long urethral forceps. But this mode of operation is not easily * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2039. (Prostatic?) Calculus, of large size, remaining iu the prostatic urethra and neck of the bladder, after lithotomy. The patient, aged fifty, lived for two years after the operation, with all the symptoms of stone, and the wouud remaining open. (Listou.)