822 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. usually on the left side of the scrotum. This swelling feels knobbed and convoluted; slipping about between the fingers as if it were a biindle of worms. It is inelastic and compressible, but the swelling gives a slight impulse on coughing, and it slowly diminishes in the recumbent posture, reappearing in the erect position and increasing after long standing, although moderate pressure be maintained on the external ring. The enlarged veins may often be seen through the thin scrotal skin. There is little or no pain, but a sense of tension and -weight, which is at once relieved when the patient lies down. Some- times the swelling becomes temporarily painful, the pain assuming even a neuralgic character, apparently from compression of some branch of nerve, when the varicocele is recent, and rapidly formed, although without having attained to any notable size. The testicle becomes more or less atrophied, and, when much reduced in size, it may be almost concealed beneath a large varicocele. Double varicocele sometimes occurs, but that on the left side is even then the most developed. The diagnosis of varicocele from scrotal hernia may be readily determined by the peculiar feel of the swelling ; although both the tumours have some resemblance, in being affected by coughing and by posture. From hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, or of the cord, varicocele differs in virtue of all these characters ; and as regards the former hydrocelic affection, varicocele has the additional distinction that it does not extend down to the testicle so as to envelop this organ. The causes of varicocele are both predisposing and exciting. Predis- jposition consists in the anatomical constitution of the spermatic veins —their size and tortuosity near the testicle, their numerous anastomoses and long efferent trunks, favouring the accumulation of blood, and the loose cellular texture of the scrotum affording little support; while the veins are frequently subjected to pressure by the action of the abdominal muscles. The specially predisposing circumstances usually assigned for the far more common occurrence of varicocele on the left side are—the greater length of the left spermatic vein, which opens into the renal, while the right joins the vena cava; and owing also to the slightly lower position of the left testicle ; the rectangular junction of the left spermatic vein with the renal; and its relation to the sigmoid flexure of the colon as a source of compression. In respect to age, varicocele commences usually at about eighteen or twenty, very rarely before puberty, although I have seen one case; and when com- mencing after thirty or thirty-five, it is generally the result of injury or continued pressure on the cord. As age advances, the enlarged veins evince a tendency to diminution. Varicocele is found in about one male adult in ten, according to Dr. Humphry's observations. The exciting cause may be any exertion which tells upon the spermatic veins, as straining at stool, long walking exercise, standing or riding. Any such exertion, having induced varicocele, will also aggravate it from time to time. Treatment.—The necessity for any interference with varicocele should be determined by various circumstances : an increasing size of the swelling, the inconvenience or pain occasioned by it; the tendency to atrophy of the testis, and sometimes to spermatorrhoea; with the mental depression induced by this state, or resulting from prolonged anxiety respecting the supposed loss of generative power. These