S SPECIAL PATHOLOOY AND SURGERY. Finally, the Uae of incision is brought together and closed by sutures of silk or silver wire; care having been previously taken, the very last, to see that any clot be washed out, and that the ends of bone are in apposition. Strips of Mnt soaked in water or weak carbolic lotion are applied to the wound, and overlaid by a large piece of oil- silk; a bandagQ being applied over all, to further exclude the air and SmorrhagT^ compression for a time, to prevent oozing secondary The After-treatment of Joint-Excision is local, as relating to the process of union, integumentary, and between the ends of bone: and constilutwnal treatment, principally hygienic, as relating to the main- tenance of reparative power; both aspects of the treatment havin<' regard also to occasional complications. (1.) Local after-treatment may be reduced to certain rules: The integumentary wound undergoes more or less tumefaction, but it generally heals by the first intention--primary union taking place along the line of incision; except at its angles, which continue to dis- charge, slightly perhaps, a puriform matter or lymph, when the ends of bone have long since united. The first dressing need not be re- moved, usually for forty-eight hours; then the wound is to be cleansed, and similar dressing reapplied, the bandage being omitted, or applied lightly as inflammatory swelling supervenes. The sutwres, some or all, may be allowed to remain for a week or ten days. The retentive apparatus should not be removed and reapplied for the first month or six weeks after excision, unless absolutely necessary to correct some important displacement of the ends of bone. If osseous union be required, this rule is the more imperative. The splints are reapplied at the end of another month, and so on ; about three re-applications only being permitted in the course of osseous union, as of the knee-joint; while the splint may be abandoned at a more early period, and passive motion commenced, when ligamentous union is required, as in the elbow. A starched bandage may be substituted for splints, when osseous union has become sufiiciently firm; and thus enable the patient to get about and regain his general health. Secondary haimorrhage, a rare complication after joint-excision, can generally be arrested by the ice-bag, or irrigation, aided by the compression of a bandage ; and I have only once had occasion to reopen the wound to secure a bleed- ing vessel—and that in the knee-jpint. Re-excision and amputation will severally be considered in speaking of the different joints. (2.) Constitutional after-treatment should be equally free from the imputation of unnecessary interference. Guided by ordinary prin- ciples, little medicine-giving will be needed ; the face gradually acquires a remarkable pallidity or sallowness, more than can be accounted for by the comparatively slight loss of blood in the operation; but this appearance wears off under the influence of quinine and iron, with a nourishing diet; the patient, supposing an excision in the lower limb, can often recline on a back-support in bed, so as to be enabled to read or write, or, if a female, amuse herself with needlework; and eventually, before leaving the bed, our patient has become the picture of health. On the other hand, certain constitutional complications are apt to arise after excision, which are of an adverse, or even fatal, character. Prolonged siclcness, from the influence of chloroform, may be subdued