215 DISEASES OF THE LENS AND ITS CAPSULE. power, should be used as a condenser, to concentrate light upon the surface of the lens ; the patient standing in front of a window which admits a good light,—not direct sunlight. The best means of diagnosis, however, is the ophthalmoscope, with the aid of which the faintest strife and opacities can be readily recognized. Capsular cataract shows—behind the pupil—an opaque body, of a grey dead-white colour; Lenticitlar cataract, a bluisli-white or amber- , coloured opacity. Various shapes and shades of opacity are recognized, I of subordinate importance, but some of whicb may be noticed in con- nection with cataract in adults and infants, respectively. Cataract in adults.—Usually occurring in advanced life—after the ; age of fifty or sixty—the rise and progress of cataract in elderly per- rons are as follows:—The circumference of the lens is first affected, I commonly the lower edge, in the form of opaque stride, which gradually I advance along the posterior and anterior faces of the lens towards its : axis. These strige coalesce into patclies, spreading cbiefly over the posterior surface of the lens. In this state, the cataract may remain ; stationary for a year or several years. Then, the whole body of the lens, and especially the nucleus, becomes slightly hazy; through which, however, the posterior radiated opacity can be discerned,—the I eye being illuminated with concentrated light. The anterior surface becomes involved, the opaque strife advancing from the margin, until 1 the points come within the area of the pupil. As the central opacity 1 acquires greater density, vision is lost, excepting to strong light and ! bright colours. The fibi-ous structure of the lens gradually disappears ' with increasing opacity ; disintegration pi'oceeding, a deposit of earthy ! and fatty matter takes place, and crystals of cholesterine just within I the capsule may sometimes be recognized by their sparkling appear- : ance. These further changes are limited to the surface of the lens, 1 and present a whitish opacity. Sometimes they do not occur, and the cataract has a dull hroimiisli appearance like horn, very difficult of de- 1 tection. Black cataract is a rare form of lenticular opacity; it appears ! to be due to the absorption of hsematosine. Fluid cataract results from softening, which begins in the super- i ficial portion of an opaque lens, and involves the whole lens, until, in the ( course of years, it becomes converted into a thin pulp. The nucleus ! resisting this change may be surrounded with a turbid pulp of dis- integrated tissue ; a lens in this state constituting the " Morgagnian c cataract." Congenital Cataract shows various forms of opacity; the most common is the laminated, where there is an opaque nucleus, while the ; peripheral portion remains more transparent. Other forms are, a - small, white, central dot on the anterior face of the lens—central cataract, a diffused opacity occupying nearly the whole area of the : pupil when contracted. This opacity projects forward in the shape of an obtuse white cone, which appears to adhere by its base to the ■ anterior surface of the capsule—pyramidal cataract; and, lastly, a very faintly striated opacity of the nucleus, a rare form of congenital cataract. Traumatic Cataract.—In consequence of a blow on the eyeball, or a r penetrating wound of the lens, the lens may become opaque ; the latter injury inevitably producing cataract. Disintegration and absorption of the lens ensue; tlie opaque capsule remains. Iritis having been caused by the injury, the pupillary margin will probably bs adherent to the .