DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. 203 The treatment is excision. The lids being held apart with a spring QTieculum the growth should be seized with tenaculum forceps, close to the cornea, and dissected caref ally ofE the sclerotic towards the inner canthus; avoiding the caruncle and semilunar fold. Any small portion remainino- on the cornea will probably wither and disappear. _ Pinquecula signifies small yellowish elevations on the sclerotic, close to the maro-in of the cornea. They consist chiefly of fibrous tissue. Thev form after the middle period of life, especially m persons who have been much exposed to the weather, or have lived m hot climates. These little masses are quite harmless, and had better be left alone. Tumotm, such as occur in other parts of the body, may also spring from the conjunctiva. Warty and polypoid growths occasionally arise from this membrane. Early excision is the only remedy. J^atty tumour sometimes forms under the conjunctiva, in the 8ubcon3unctival tissue Mr. Dixon has seen a few such cases, in children ; the tumours aU occupied the same position-the line of reflection of the con]unctiva from the lower lid to the globe. They extended from near the lower ed<^e of the cornea to the outer canthus, elongated m shape,_ almost like a haricot bean, and partly concealed by the lower lid. An incision through the conjunctiva and fibrous capsule of the tumour readily allowed the fatty mass to be turned out. Cysiicercus telce celMosce.—This parasite is found, very rarely, m the subconjunctival cellular tissue. It appears as a rounded body, about the size of a pea; situated midway between the inner canthus and cornea in two instances. A slight incision lets this body slip out. Its nature will be shown by examination under the microscope. Stains from Nitrate of Silver—A. dirty sepia tint of the sclerotic is apt to follow the prolonged application of nitrate of silver, as an eye- wash. In one case, Mr. Dixon found that the stain almost disappeared under the long-continued application of hyposulphite of soda in solution—ten grains, gradually increased to a drachm, to the ounce of water. It is necessary to maintain the contact of the solution for some time; and this was accomplished by means of an eyeglass, the patient being ordered to draw down the lower lid and fix it against the check- bone with the rim of the glass, before reclining his head. Diseases of the Cornea.—(1.) Keratitis, or Corneitis.—Inflam- mation of the cornea is denoted by crescentic vascularity, passing from the edge of the cornea for some little distance into its substance. _ This characteristic vascularity involves a third or half of the corneal circum- ference, and the plexus of vessels is so fine that it appears as a small patch of blood smeared upon the surface of the cornea. An inch focus glass will, however, show the vessels composing the plexus. A zone of pink vessels in the sclerotic surrounds the cornea; but this is present also in iritis and other deep inflammations of the eye. Conjunctival vascularity, indicative of ophthalmia, is absent. Profuse lachrymation and intolerance of light accompany corneitis, as in other aifections already described. Haziness and opacity of the cornea soon supervene; eventually, softening with a yellow tint, ulceration of the cornea, and suppuration within its substance; or the matter, bursting through the cornea posteriorly, sinks down to the bottom of the anterior chamber—hypopyon results. One eye usually suffers and then the other, perhaps as the first is recovering. Children arc most liable, and the disease rarely occurs after the ago