SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 804 the epispadias may perhaps be remedied by a plastic operation The edges of the opened portion of urethra should be pared, and brou£?lit together by suture, over a catheter. Narrowing of the urethra may be dealt with by dilatation; and a membranous diaphragm perforated by a trocar, when its existence has been clearly ascertained. CHAPTER LXVI. DISEASES OF THE SCROTUM, TESTIS, AND COED. Diseases of the Scrotum.—Inflammatory (Edema of the scrotal in- tegument is an affection of an erysipelatous character ; and, owing to the loose structure of the subcellular tissue, it is attended with great effusion and swelling, with a marked tendency also to rapid sloughing. The skin becoming involved, the testicles and cords are soon exposed; and these organs may even hang pendulous, entirely bereft of integu- ment. This affection is liable to occur in enfeebled persons, from any slight local cause of irritation ; as a small wound, crack, or abrasion; a boil or small abscess in or near the scrotum. Apart from the pre- disposing constitutional condition, sloughing of the scrotum rarely supervenes. Thus, the scrotum is very seldom the seat of mortifica- tion from frost-bite; although such cases have been seen by Sir A. Cooper and Mr. Curling. Treatment consists in elevation of the scrotum, with fomentations ; and early, free incisions, on either side of the raphe, down to the most dependent parts of the swelling. Tension is thus relieved, and the tendency to sloughing. In the event of this issue, granulation and cicatrization proceed apace even after the most extensive exposure. Constitutional treatment must be conducted on ordinary principles, for sustaining the patient's strength during the consecutive processes of destruction and reparation. Anasarca of the scrotum, in old, weak persons, should be met by puncture, rather than by incision. (Edema of the scrotum, in newiorn infants, often happens in conse- quence of some slight irritation of the skin. It subsides usually under careful attention to keep the part dry and powdered. Death, how- ever, may ensue; a result which Professor Humphry witnessed in one case, and of which he cites two such cases. Elephantiasis.—This term has been used to signify at least two different diseases: the elephas of the Greeks,—known also as leprosy or lepra in the Old and New Testaments; and the elephaniiasis Arabum, as more commonly referred to. The one is a constitutional disease; the other a local affection, seated either in the leg, and then known as Arabian elephantiasis—the Elephant-leg, or leg of Bar- badoes; or in the scrotum—forming the elephantiasis scrotal tumour or Egyptian sarcocele, tropical bucnemia, spargosis, etc. In order to avoid confounding diseases which are distinct in themselves, it will be