THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. 225 of vision becomes crowded witli tbem. They may be seen moving freely when the lids are closed, if the eyes be turned towards a strong lio-ht. These small, black, moving objects are not due to congested vessels of the choroid, but are probably particles of pigment in the vitreous humour. They move freely in a fluid, through a limited space, and at various distances from the retina. The surface of the cornea is not the sphere of action, as proved by their position re- maining unaffected in blinking of the eyelids. Muscse occur commonly in short-sighted persons, usually com- mencing to appear between the ages of twenty and thirty ; and having attracted the patient's attention, they seem rapidly to increase in num- ber, owing partly to the habit acquired of bringing fresh bodies into focus. Their presence is quite compatible witb excellent and life-long sight; but they are incurable. The Ophthalmoscope. — It is scarcely more than thirty years ago since Gumming first demonstrated the possibility of inspecting the fundus of the human eye, by means of a certain arrangement of light. An instrument for this purpose, the first ophthalmoscope, was invented by Helmholtz and described in 1851. Ruete followed in 1852, with, an ophthalmoscope constructed on a" different principle; Coccius modi- fied this instrument, and it was still further modified by Anagnostakis, who reduced its construction to extreme simplicity, and perfected its utility. This ophthalmoscope consists merely of a circular mirror, about an inch and three-quarters in diameter, slightly concave, and perforated in the centre with a round aperture, the tenth of an inch wide. The mirror is set in a metal frame, fixed in a handle. The eye of the patient often requires to be prepared for inspection by dilating the pupil with atropine, unless it be already dilated from disease. The application of the ophthalmoscope, in regard to the various details necessary for a com- plete examination of the eye, is thus described by Mr. Dixon:—" The observer and the patient sit face to face, in a room from which day- light has been excluded, the only source of illumination being a lamp, or, still better, a jet of gas issuing from a jointed tube, so that the flame can be placed higher or lower, according to the height of the patient's head. The flame should be on a level with his eye, and just far enough behind him to prevent any of the direct rays falling on his cornea. The chimney surrounding the flame must be of transparent glass, and, if faintly tinged with blue, it will modify the red rays of the flame, and impart a whiteness to it, nearly resembling that of ordinary daylight. The obtliMd^is^inrerted ^"'"^^'^^'^^ ^^^^ ophthalmoscope. The image thua VOL. n. Fig, 631.*