749 CYSTS TUBEKCLE—PROSTATIC CALCULUS. ducts of the glandular structure. They are aiDparently dilated pro- static follicles. Some such cysts contain several minute concretions or prostatic calculi of larger size, and each occupying a separate recess. Old age is most liable to this cystic condition of the prostate. No special symptoms are presented by these small cystiform cavities, and the diagnosis is unimportant, as it would not afford any indication for special treatment. A cystic condition of the prostate is sometimes met with, resulting from long-continued suppuration with absorption of the glandular substance; and thus forming one large cavity containing pus. The capsule of the prostate has become the pus-secreting sac of an abscess. A hydatid cyst has occasionally formed between the bladder—near its neck—and the rectum. This condition is attended with retention of urine and distension of the bladder; simulating the symptoms of prostatic enlargement. The formation of any such cyst within the substance of the prostate seems doubtful. TuBBECLE.—The prostate is very rarely the seat of tubercular deposit, and then always as a secondary affection; some other part of the genito-urinary tract being the primary seat of deposit. The kidney ranks first, and next the testicle. Phthisis pulmonalis is generally associated with the tubercular affection of any genito-urinary organ. Prostatic tuberculosis occurs most commonly between the ages of twenty-five and fifty-five. Extreme ages, in youth or an advanced period of life, would appear to be eleven and seventy-six years, as gathered from eighteen cases collected by Sir H. Thompson. Frequent and painf al micturition, with some obstruction to the pas- sage of urine, and occasionally slight haemorrhage, constitute the symptoms. There is also some amount of prostatic enlargement, ascertainable by rectal examination. Subsequently, with suppuration and discharge, the prostate becomes smaller than natural, and the urine purulent. But the absence of any special symptoms, and the co- existence of at least a phthisical tendency, will so far indicate the nature of this disease. Treatment must be conducted on general principles. Peostatic Calculus.—The prostate gland, like other glands, is liable to an inspissation of its secretion, forming nuclei around which inorganic deposit and concretion takes place, within the ducts of the follicular structure. This mode of origin and situation is character- istic of true prostatic calculus, and distinguish it from urinary calculus which may have lodged in the prostate. Prostatic calculus is com- posed principally of phosphate of lime, about eighty-four per cent., with a trace of carbonate of lime; organic matter, fifteen per cent., constituting the remainder. The physical characters of these calculi are peculiar:—their colour is generally a brown chestnut, sometimes black, red, or white; occa- sionally transparent or like pearl-barley; of softish or hard con- sistence ; their form is commonly very irregular, faceted, triangular, or square ; and their size varies from that of granular sand to a poppy-seed or cherry-stone. In point of number, one, two, three, or more, even to a hundred, may exist, like a bag of marbles. By con- stant attrition, the facets become smooth and polished. Continued deposition of phosphatic matter at length produces a larger calculus,