745 CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. prostate by certain features pertaining to eacli of the symptoms. Pain in the glans penis and vesical irritability are most marked after mictu- rition, when the bladder is empty and the stone settles down on the more sensitive base of the bladder behind the prostate; and these symptoms are also then aggravated by exercise, or any movement whereby the stone rolls about on that part. The stream of urine often stops suddenly, by the stone falling over the vesical orifice; but this symptom is liable to happen also when an outgrowth from the middle lobe of the prostate exists in the form of a valve, which from time to time overlaps the neck of the bladder,—a rare form of prostatic enlarge- ment. Vesical hasmorrhage is more common, as a symptom of cal- culus; the blood passed, florid and unmixed, is more abundant in quantity, and it is especially liable to occur after exercise by attrition of the stone on the mucous membrane of the bladder. Sounding affords conclusive evidence of stone, when the foreign body can be distinctly struck. The coexistence of stone with an enlarged prostate—a not unfre- quent combination—renders the diagnosis far more ambiguous. If the calculus lies in the receptacle behind the enlarged prostate, the pain in the penis and vesical irritability will be less marked or absent; this fact, originally noticed, I believe, by Sir B. Brodie, is probably owing to the removal of the foreign body from the sensitive neck of the bladder. Any indication by the sudden cessation of the stream of urine being equivocal evidence, it is then that occasional hemor- rhage, and especially careful sounding, as already described, afford the most reliable ground for diagnosis as to the existence of stone. But even the evidence derived from sounding may be masked by enlarge- ment of the prostate. I remember to have heard from the late Mr. Thomas Morton (Surgeon to University College Hospital) of a case in his prac- tice, where an instrument had been passed constantly by many eminent Surgeons during a period of fifteen years, without discovering the presence of a stone, which was found after death. Rectal exploration will more completely discover the prostatic enlargement. From non-prostatic tumour, chronic enlargement of the prostate may be known principally by careful urethral exploration with the beaked sound; and by examination of any urethral discharge with the micro- scope, which reveals perhaps the presence of characteristic structural r elements. From simple atomj of the bladder, the diagnosis of enlarged pro- state turns upon the twofold fact; that when a catheter is introduced into the bladder, no urine, or scarcely any, flows in the recumbent position, nor is it much propelled by any efforts of the patient. Atony may, however, have supervened from over-distension, as a consequence of prostatic enlargement. In paralysis of the bladder, when a catheter is introduced, urine flows, and in a stream as full and forcible as after removal of the obstruction of an enlarged prostate; but there is inability on the part of the patient to propel the urine by any volun- tary action of the abdominal muscles, this inability being of course proportionate to the completeness of the paralysis. The lower ex- tremities also are almost always involved, and this paralytic condition results from injury or disease of the nervous centres,—brain or spinal cord. Consequences, and Terminations.—Ghronic cystitis, or a state of the