333 ARTIFICIAL VELA. ■with the result attained by artificial substitutes as compared with vela formed by operation. ^ ^ , . i -u- i, r, • Artificial vela are made of a form of vulcanite which, after being fully vulcanized, remains soft and flexible ; the material is perfect for the purpose, save only that it perishes after a time, so requires renewal, and that it is troublesome to manipulate. The soft and flexible portion of the apparatus is kept in place partly by its own accurate adaptation to the margins of the cleft, partly by being attached to a gold or vulcanite plate covering a part or all of the palate. An accurate impression is first taken of the parts in plaster of Paris, which is the only material suited for the purpose, as it is put into the mouth in a condition suflaciently fluid to adapt itself to soft parts Avithout displacing them. The taking of the plaster impression requires not a little dexterity and management, but a good model once secured, the remaining steps are comparatively easy. A model in gutta-percha is made of the future soft, flexible portions of the apparatus ; this is so made as to pass through the cleft, and to expand out both above and below its margin. It will thus hold up in place almost independently of the supporting palate-plate, except that it can slip backwards into the pharynx. Having got a satisfactory dummy velum in gutta-percha, metal moulds are made from this, and in these the vulcanite one is vulcanized. A well-made, well-adapted artificial velum is gripped by the muscular margin of the cleft, and moves freely with the soft parts, passing back to the back of the pharynx and efficiently cutting ofi the pharynx from the nares when required. The patient requires some little education before the voice loses its unpleasant tone in speaking, but the most satisfactory results are attainable. On the other hand, the apparatus is of necessity expensive; it require a vast deal of time and patience for its successful manufacture and adaptation, and the soft rubber wears out so that the vela require renewal. To meet this objection, Dr. Suerson has adopted a simpler, bat, in some cases, thoroughly efficacious plan; he carries back horizontally from the palate a rigid, immovable plate, extending nearly to the posterior wall of the pharynx, and finds that the muscular walls grip this sufficiently to answer most practical purposes. Personally, I have no experience of Dr. Suerson's obturators; they are able, however, to be made with less trouble, and therefore more cheaply, and do not wear out. Gaps resultant upon surgical operation or upon syphilis require somewhat different treatment. The apparatus which closes them should not, as in congenital cleft palate, pass within the cleft, but should merely bridge it over; and this for two reasons—the one, that the edges of such cleft are lowly organized, irritable, and very liable to ulceration upon the smallest pressure; the other, that they tend to contract and close of themselves, and this process would of course be greatly hindered by an obturator impinging upon their margins.