554 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. false rib, and external to the outer margin of the erector spinas muscle. Commencing just in front of the last-named boundary, an incision is carried forwards transversely, or obliquely from above downwards, corresponding to the middle third of the iliac crest, and to the extent of from four to six inches. Of the two directions of incision, I prefer the latter. The muscular layers of the abdominal wall are then successively divided, and perhaps the external border of the quad- ratus lumborum muscle. Clearing away the cellulo-adipose tissue, which is sometimes membranous and semi-transparent, looking like the peritoneum, the colon presents itself, and the more so if loaded; it appears at the bottom of the wound, and free of peritoneum. It is recognized by its muscular character, somewhat greenish colour, and distended sacculated appearance ; and the more fully the gut is en- gorged, the more freely will it have uncovered itself through the duplicature of the peritoneum—the meso-colon. The gut should be hooked up with a tenaculum, avoiding the peritoneum on either side, and drawn well out to the integument, to prevent any feculent effu- sion into the cellular texture, as the gut gradually collapses by dis- charging its contents when opened. A small aperture is then made with the scalpel, and there usually takes place a gush and copious flow of feculent fluid. Basins should be at hand to receive the abundant evacuation. The margin of the opening in the colon is then secured to the integumental incision, by means of a few points of suture; so that an artificial anus thus formed may become established. (Fig. 830.) Before this operation, should the colon not be distended by the retention of feculent matter, it will be desirable to in- flate the gut by injection with warm water, that it may appear more prominently in the lumbar incision. After-treatment con- sists in combating collapse and peritonitis. Opium and support are the principal con- stitutional requirements ; and scrupulous cleanliness is the most urgent local ob- servance to be attended to. The constant discharge of fseces through the wound may generally be controlled by the use of an ivory ball, fitting the aperture in the bowel, and attached to a small shield, over which a soft thin piece of india-rubber should be fastened; the whole contrivance being retained in position by a bandage. This operation has now been resorted to by many Surgeons, myself included. Its results may be gathered from the analysis of 44 cases, in which an artificial anus has been formed by opening the large intestine. Prom a paper by Mr. CiBsar Hawkins, published in the "Med.-Chir. Transactions," vol. xxv., it appears that of these 44 cases, in 1 7 the anal opening was made through the peritoneum, and in 26 behind that membrane; but as 5 of the peritoneal sections were exceptional cases, 12 only are left to compare with 26 cases of operation behind the * St. Thomas's TTosp. Mua., Q. 157'. Cancerous stricture of descending colon, with colotomy resulting in artificial anus,