857 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. Diagnosis.—The epithelial form—the most common—whicli begins in the cervix uteri, rapidly catches neighbouring tissues, and, matting all too-ether, fixes the uterus, and brings it nearer the vulva. The finger thas readily strikes upon the irregular knobby margin of the os, and feels the brawny continuity with the inflated surrounding structures. It is distinguished from pelvic cellulitis, which also fixes the uterus, by the disease in cancer involving the cervix principally, whilst in pelvic cellulitis the disease is external to the cervix. In cancer also, slight touch by the finger commonly provokes bleeding. A fortiori, the speculum will do so. The tissues are so brittle and vascular that they bear no pressure or stretching. The speculum, therefore, is mischievous, and it gives no help to compensate. Excision of cancerous ulcer of the os uteri was originally performed by Osiander of Gottingen, and subsequently by Lisfranc of Paris. No particular directions are necessary for its performance; the operation consisting in dilating the vagina with the duck-billed speculum, seizing and dragging down the os with forceps, and then excising the affected portion. Hsemorrhage must be restrained by the actual cautery, or by perchloride of iron. It wiU perhaps be desirable to retain hold of the stump by transfixing it with a wire, so that in the event of secondary hsemorrhage, the requisite applications can be made. The ecraseur may be used instead of the knife, when the whole neck of the uterus is to be removed. The restdts of this operation are uncertain, both as to its immediate risks, and the average duration of life in successful cases. It would appear to be generally a safe operation; only two deaths having occurred in ninety-seven cases by Lisfranc, and one only in Dr. Sim's fifty cases—say, two per cent. But, in the hands of others, death has not unfrequently happened from hasmorrhage, or from a peculiar col- lapse,—the " abdominal collapse " of Dr. Barnes. When not imme- diately fatal, the operation is productive of only temporary benefit,— the disease returning. It is now, however, agreed that the majority of Lisfranc's cases were not cancerous. Sim's cases also were mostly hypertrophy. Cauterization will be preferable, when the disease extends too deeply for excision. For this purpose, the dried sulphate of zinc may be used, as recommended by Professor Simpson; and in the form of a powder introduced through a speculum, or as a pessary of ointment. Some carbonate of soda, in the form of a pessary, should also be applied, to neutralize the zinc, which is apt to run. The chloride of zinc, and potassa-fusa, are less convenient kinds of escharotics. Bromine has been enthusiastically extolled as a caustic for these cases. But some, at least, of the presumed cures are explained by error of diagnosis. The actual cautery, applied by red-hot iron, by galvanic action, or by Paquelin's apparatus, is the best of all local agents. Cure, or at least a temporary alleviation of the symptoms, has sometimes been effected. Excision of the entire uterus may be resorted to for the removal of tumonrs involving the whole organ. Extirpation has been performed per vaginam in a few cases. Thus, Dr. Blundell removed the uterus for cancer, and the woman, who was fifty years of age, recovered. But this operation is of too dangerous a character to be lightly entertained. Removal by the abdominal section, as in ovariotomy, seems to have been