759 GONORRHCEA IN THE FEMALE. Chonlee is best prevented or overcome by a nightly pill of opium and camphor,—say, one to two grains, as an anodyne antispasmodic; or coniam and camphor, in pill, I have often ordered with marked relief. Camphor alone may be taken, as Mr. Milton directs; one drachm of the tincture in water, before going to bed, and repeated every time the patient wakes with chordee. Or E-icord's suppository—of opium, the watery extract, one grain, with camphor ten grains—may be introduced into the rectum an hour before bedtime. The patient must deny him- self supper or any excitement before going to bed, and then bathe the parts with cold water, or preferably with hot water until a sensation of faintness is produced; he should lie on a hard mattress, and be lightly covered with bed-clothes. Gonorrhoeal epididymitis and orrMtis may be treated by rest in the recumbent position, warm fomentations, and leeclies if necessary; but sedative measures, especially hyoscyamus in full doses, with camphor mixture, will often prove sufficient to subdue the pain and swelling of the testicle; while, if the urethral discharge has been suddenly suppressed, I am in the habit of soliciting its retuim by enveloping the penis in a poultice. Gonorrhoea in the Female is a much less common affection than in the male sex. But the inflammation and discharge is rarely restricted to the urethra ; the vagina is the chief seat of gonorrhoea. The symp- toms are heat and itching in the vagina, with scalding in the urethra when the urine is passed ; on examination, the vaginal passage is found to be red and swollen; these early symptoms being soon fol- lowed by a copious, greenish-yellow, muco-purulent discharge, pro- ceeding more especially from the upper wall of the vagina. The labia may become involved, appearing red and puffed, while the secretion from the sebaceous follicles gives an offensive character to the dis- charge. Sometimes the inflammation extends backwards to the os uteri, which presents small patches of superficial ulceration. But all the symptoms are usually milder than in the male; and although perhaps of longer duration, the discharge does not generally pass into gleet. Simple vaginitis must not be mistaken for gonorrhoea; and yet their diagnosis cannot be determined by any one symptom, or by the combination of symptoms, nor by the appearance of the discharge or its inspection with the microscope. This absence of any distinctive evidence is a very important consideration in relation to medico-legal inquiry respecting supposed gonorrhoea in young females and children, who are very liable to simple inflammation of the vagina from various causes, both constitutional and local. The diagnosis is scarcely less doubtful with regard to vaginal uterine discharges at any period of life. Fewer untoward events are likely to complicate the course of the disease in women than in men. Not unfrequently one of the swollen labia suppurates, the abscess pointing on the inner side. There may be some inguinal sympathetic bubo, but perhaps only in cases where the urethra is affected; and sometimes the vaginal inflammation creeps up into the cavity of the uterus, and may even pass up the fallopian tubes _ to the ovaries; the ovaritis thus induced corre- sponding to epididymitis in the male. Gronorrhoeal rheumatism is a rare occurrence, and gonorrhoeal ophthalmia is seldom met with. Treatment may be comprised in a few words. No special remedial