URINAB.Y CALCULI. 663 tests pertaining to each, are conveniently shown in the preceding tabular view of General and Special Tests for Urinary Calciili; which represents also the order of chemical examination. It is enlarged from the well-known lectures of Dr. Berice Jones on Animal Chemistry. Exammation of Urinary Calculi.—The appliances requisite for the examination of Calculi are few and simple; a platinum spoon or piece of platinum foil, a spirit-lamp, and sometimes the aid of a blowpipe ; test-tubes and watch-glasses, with the acids,—nitric and hydrochloric,' and the alkalies,—carbonate of potash and oxalate of ammonia. Cer- tain special reagents are noticed in the table. The order of procedure is, first to test a bit of the calculus in powder, by heat, and thus refer it to one of the two divisions: calculi combustible, and destroyed by heat, leaving only a very little residue; or calculi incombustible, and not destroyed by heat, leaving a con- siderable residue._ In the former case, the original powder is to be tested for uric acid, urate of ammonia, uric oxide, or cystic oxide ; in the latter case it is to be tested for carbonate of lime, oxalate of lime, ammoniaco-magnesian, or triple phosphate, phosphate of lime or mixed phosphates. Next the vii^ieral acid test is to be applied •' if a combustible calculus, dilute nitric acid should be used; if a non- combustible calculus, dilute hydrochloric acid is preferable. Then the alkaline test must be applied. Lastly, the special tests may be resorted to. ^ Causes of Urinary Calculi.—The urinary formation of calculi has already been adverted to. But certain predisposing causes seem to have a tendency to the production of stone. Climate and Locality have apparently some predisposing influence. Calculus IS more common in temperate than in warm and cold regions and more especially in humid countries of moderate and changeable temperature, such as Holland, France, Germany, and England. It occurs towever very frequently in Egypt, Isle of Prance, Russia, Bagdad, and both the East and West Indies. Some parts of the same country are certainly more prone to calculus-production than other parts; as particularly the county of Norfolk in this country. Baoe, it IS said, has difterent proclivities; calculous disorders are more common among white than dark races of men, yet stone is of very frequent occurrence among the natives of India. The relative frequency of different Calculi varies in different countries. Dr H. Y. Carter's observations, on the composition of more than a hundred specimens in the Grant Medical College, Bombay, show the relative frequency of the different urinary constituents, as forming the nucleus and the body of calculi, in India and in England. (I ) lhatm Bombay, the proportion of calculi having oxalate of lime for Enir "1^°"^'^'^^^'^'^ ^*' -bour twice as greaTas in Jingland; taking for comparison certain standard collections of calculi m tb3 country (2.) That the proportion of calculi haZr-ic acid I'dia ttntEnln:S''"^r T'^'^ ---^derfbly lesHn inaia tJian m il^ngland ; m the former country, urate of ammonifl n»] lu ^ngiand. (.3.) That the number of calculi whollv comnospd nf earthy phosphates or having them for a nucleus, is mr<SSonatelT much fewer m India than in England, owinfj chiefiv to thn «,^f! if the mixed phosphate in the former country ^ ^ ' '^"^^ °^