SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 80G Treatment.—Althougli leprosy is a very chronic disease, continuing perhaps for many yeai's, it does not seem to have any inherently fatal tendency,—the poor sufferer dying at last rather from some contingent affection, such as diarrhoea or albuminuria. On the other hand, the disease responds hardly to any remedial measures. Druitt informs us that at present there are three medicinal agents under trial,—the gurjun oil, recommended by Dr. Dougall; the chaulmoogra oil, which Dr. Bhau-Dagi advocates; and the Neradee muttoo. They are all oleo-resinous drugs ; and, mixed with lime water, are used as embroca- tions, and administered internally, in the cases of leprosy at Madras. But according to the experience of Dr. Van Someren, of the Leper Hospital, and the opinion also of Dr. Macrae, cleanUness and a good diet are more efficacious than any other treatment. Elephantusis Arabum.—Signs.—In the form of the Elephant-leg, Arabian Elephantiasis is very readily recognized, from its remarkable resemblance to the foot of the elephant, and the marked difference of the diseased appearance from that of any other morbid condition. The human leg is converted into a greatly enlarged, hard, tuberous, thick- skinned mass, the integument often marked by transverse folds, and the whole having a dark colour and a broad base, like the foot of the animal with which it is compared. Sometimes the pachydermatous surface is fissured, or beset with small, pearly crusts; and it is liable to ulceration, spreading both in depth and breadth. The elephantine integument gradually loses its sensibility. Thus, in the developed state of this disease, the appearances are quite characteristic. In the early stage, the signs are those of chronic inflammation of the skin and subareolar texture ; the foot is reddish and tender, encased with a semi-solid cedema, which renders any movement of the part stiff and painful. But what is more significant, in some cases, is the appear- ance of reddish-purple, branching streaks, in the course of the lym- phatic vessels, coupled with tender swelling of the proximate lymphatic glands; as if a certain amount of lymphatitis and adenitis were associated with the cedema. Then, also, there is more or less febrile disturbance in connection with the otherwise local affection of the foot and leg. The structural conditions in the developed form of elephant-leg may be comprised under the general term hypertrophy of the skin and its papillse, with the cuticle and the subcutaneous cellular texture, result- ing from infiltration with a peculiar fibroid matter of a firm, inelastic character. Thus, the skin may become increased in thickness to half an inch or more, and the papillae tufted; the epidermis is simply thickened, and almost inseparable from the cutis; but the areolar texture under the skin is also the seat of the fibroid deposit, ac- quiring the same dense, inelastic consistence. A section from the surface presents a whitish, fibroid texture, associated perhaps in the areolar spaces with a thick gelatinous matter. Deeper still, the muscles are found to be atrophied or wasted, and to have undergone a pale-yellowish softening,—in short, fatty degeneration. The blood- vessels are thickened and enlarged, so as to bleed freely during life ; the nerves, enlarged in size, have a flattened, compressed appearance ; and even the bones may have became enlarged in circumference and denser in texture, or hypertrophied. But the most noteworthy change may be the hypertrophic condition of the lymphatics, associated per-