ORaANIC STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 767 Fig. 010 * of Stricture are dependent on Eetention of Urine, and they will be noticed under the head of Extravasation of Urine. Suppression uf urine, with ursemia, sometimes arises from slight urethral irritation; as by the introduction of an instrument only one size or number larger than that to which the patient is accustomed, or in consequence of a slight urethral abrasion, or from the mere passage of an instru- ment. Severe rigors and suppression of urine are both far more apt to occur when disease of the kidneys exists, so that the one becomes a tolerably sure indication of the other; and the fatal issue is more rapid and inevitable. Certam pathological conditions oi the urethra, prostate, vesiculte semi- nales, bladder, ureters, and kidneys, result from the mechanical effect of long-continued retention of urine. They are discovered, mostly after death. The lorethra is contracted in calibre be- fore, and dilated sometimes into a sac- culus just behind, the seat of stricture. In the latter or dilated pouch, sabulous matter and even calcareous concretions occasionally collect. Rupture of the urethra may have taken place in this dilated portion; and in connection with an abscess, usually perineal. This abscess may have opened externally, as well as communicate with the urethra, —constituting a fistula in perineo, with perhaps several branch fistulous open- ings and surrounding consolidation. The ejaculatory ducts also, in the sinus pocularis, are enlarged. The prostate gland has been found converted into an abscess, multilocular, or as a single cavity, bounded by the fibrous capsule ; and communicating by one or more ulcerated openings with the prostatic urethra. The vesiculce seminales are then often distended with glairy and foetid, purulent matter. The bladder, subjected to the constant backward pressure of urine which distends its cavity, is fasciculated internally, and perhaps sacculated; the one alteration of this organ representing an hyper- trophied state of its muscular bands; the other, intervening pouch-liko protrusions of the mucous membrane. The general result is a diminu- tion m the capacity of the bladder for the retention of urine (Fig. 919), * Roy Coll. Surg. Mus 2540. Close annular stricture at the anterior nart of the rnembranous urethra. Immediately in front is a small, round, and deep depress on producedprobably by the points of instruments passed down trtlifstSure Ju t behind IS a dilated sacculus containing a small, imbedded calculus ThTwalW the bladder are much thickened, from hypertronhv nf itc, t^., f I thickening of the mucous membi'ane, whiS s mSv covtrP^^if^ i J"'"'^ acute cystitis ; the ureters and pelves of the kidWare Zch dnl ' T portion of the left ureter being/however, allst cSd anT?L « f f'"^ ^'V," kidneys is atrophied and sacculated. ThTprostTe ^l-^ «ubs ance of both case, the patient was only thirty-six years old of vl.v ^ f suffered fU stricture d six olZl yelvl ' (T. G^oSeT''"''' ""'^ ^^'^