DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 437 Treatment.—The usual treatment of inflammation is here applicable, but it should be bad recourse to at an early period ; in order to antici- pate as far as possible the known circumstances under which the disease commonly arises, and prevent its suppurative consequences in the destruction of the breast. In the first instance, repressive measures should be employed ; cold lotions, or the extract of belladonna thickly spread on strips of lint and well applied over the whole breast, a most effectual repressor of in- cipient inflammation during lactation; occasionally, leeches may be advisable, and derivative aperients when circumstances permit. Ad- ditional and special reHef is afforded by emptying the gland-tissue of its secretion ; removing, in fact, lactic congestion. Suckling need not be abandoned, but it may be necessary to remove the milk mechanically, by means of the breast-pump. The arm of the affected side should be placed at rest, and the weight of the breast supported on the patient's chest; or if she lie sideways, a pillow or loop of broad bandage may be requisite. Established inflammation, with redness of the skin, and almost inevitable abscess, must be met by warmth and moisture; poultices, to limit the inflammation and induce suppuration of a cir- cumscribed character, and facilitate pointing of the abscess.^ The usual rule of an early, free, and dependent opening is here imperative; although Sir A. Cooper restricted this practice to certain conditions of mammary abscess,—^namely, when deeply placed, and of slow progress, attended also with much pain and constitutional disturbance. In any case, a strip of lint should be inserted for two or three days, just to prevent the lips of the wound uniting, and the reaccumulation^ of matter, and also to induce granulation from the bottom of the cavity. The support of hnt-pads, with a bandage (Fig. 760), will be requisite to prevent any tendency to bagging of matter and formation of sinuses, and, subsequently, to promote absorption of the remaining induration, when the pressure of cross-strapping with long strips of adhesive or soap plaster will probably afford a more even and sus- pensory support to the breast. Stimu- lant embrocations and ointments may also prove efficacious, such as camphor liniment, with olive oil, or mercurial ointment; but strapping the breast with the empiastrum ammoniaci cum hy- drargyro has the advantage of aiding absorption by pressure, as well as by gentle stimulation. Sinuses can gene- rally be closed by pressure, and perhaps occasional syringing with a diluted mineral acid, the nitric, nitro-muriatic, or sulphuric acid. But an intractable siuus may have to be laid open with a bistoury and director, in order to secure granulation from the bottom. After the formation of abscess, suckling with the affected breast should be discontinued, lest the infant draw matter with the milk ; and sometimes even the flow of milk from the sound breast provokes a sympathetic secretion in the opposite gland, and then the child should be entirely weaned.