HERNIA. 467 nncovered and exposed pi'otrusion of any organ, as of tlie uterus or rectum. Hernia and Rupture are frequently used as synonymous terms; but tlie latter term would imply some breaking or laceration of the textures resisting at the seat of visceral protrusion, a lesion not necessarily connected with the production of Hernia. Abdominal Hernu may be considered, in its General Pathology and Treatment; and that of the various Special Forms of such Hernise. Situations of Hernia.—The various apertures naturally existing in the abdominal parietes offer structural facilities for the protrusion of the viscera ; while apertures accidentally existing as malformations, or formed by injury or disease, also favour the occurrence of Hernia. Taking the former as the more common and normal, or anatomical situations of Hernia, they are; above Poupart's ligament—through the ingainal canal; below the ligament—through the femoral canal; through the several apertures of the pelvis ;—in front, through the obturator or thyroid foramen; through the arch of the pubes in ^ the perinseum ; below,—into the labium pudendi, by the side of the vagina; behind,— through the ischiatic notch; through the umbilical aperture; or at other parts of the abdominal wall, in ventral, epigastric, and lumbar Hernise; and through the diaphragm. Names of Hernls;.—Distiactive names are given to abdominal Hernise, according to their anatomical situation; the viscus protruded ; the period of life at which the hernial sac is formed; the stage of protrusion; and the pathological condition of the hernia. Thus we recognize by their situation; Inguinal hernia. Femoral or Crural hernia, Obturator or Thyroid hernia. Perineal hernia, Pudendal hernia. Vaginal hernia, Ischiatic hernia. Umbilical hernia. Ventral hernia—at the liuea alba, or the linea semi-lunaris. Epigastric hernia. Lumbar hernia, Diaphragmatic hernia. The protruded viscus gives names; Intestinal hernia or enterocele. Omental hernia or epiplocele, their combination being Entero-epiplocele; hernia of the stomach or Gas- trocele; of the bladder or Cystocele. Congenital hernia, and its A'ariety, Infantile or Encysted hernia, relate to the formation of the hernial sac by the persistent patency, from birth, of the vaginal pro- cess or sheath of peritoneum in the tunica vaginalis testis; the one condition signifying complete patency of this sheath; the other, its closure at the abdominal orifice, leaving the sheath open below, and into which the hernial sac descending, the tunica vaginalis encloses the sac—forming an encysted hernia. Complete and Incomplete hernia are terms having reference to the stage of protrusion; inguinal hernia incomplete, or within the canal, is named bubonocele, and when complete, scrotal hernia in the male, labial in the female. The patho- logical condition of hernia gives rise to highly important practical distinctions; reducible hernia, i/rreducihle hernia, incarcerated and strangulated hernise. General Structure op Abdominal Hernu.—The Hernia consists of a peritoneal sac or pouch, with a corresponding portion of the abdominal parietes, and the sac-contents. Sac.—The sac is a prolongation of the parietal layer of peritoneum, from the aperture in the abdominal parietes; but this prolongation is of two distinct kinds in its relation to a Hernial protrusion. The sac may be produced in two different ways; either by gradual protrusion