SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. Further Measures for Belaxation.-li the taxis do not soon succeei certain auxiliary measures may be resorted to with advantage and under such influences, reduction should be reattempted Se pS niay be placed xn a hot bath (96 -100° P.), and allowed to ?ema?n until some famtness supervenes, during which period the tS S reapplied m the bath. This failing, L should\rremoved and wrapped in blankets. Then chloroform may be administered cau tionsly, and under its influence another attempt at reduction be made . yet once more only. "^^j-uc, It would be idle to eyen enumerate all the other measures which have been employed; some are pernicious, all are useless, with perhaps two exceptions. Opium may be administered with advantage in one period of strangulated hernia. When vomiting has commenced, and the stomach has been emptied by two or three vomits, there is—ac- cording to Mr. Birkett's careful observation—a short interval of repose which continues until regurgitation takes place from the small intes- ■ -r J moment be seized, and a f uU dose of opium in solution with a little stimulant, be given, the hernia can sometimes be reduced ±5ut when once the vomiting of regurgitated fluids has supervened the inward administration of medicine is pernicious. Purgatives are positively killing, in thus attempting to force a passac^e through a strangulated portion of intestine; and enemata at least useless with the view of emptying the lower bowel, already emptied by the irrita- tion of strangulation above. Yet how often do we hear of or meet with patients who have been positively drenched with aperient medicines followed up by enemata, for days or even a whole week, under the care of a chemist or possibly under medical supervision, before an operation for the rehef of strangulation ? This sad mistake arises mostly from overlooking the nature of the symptoms; the constipation and vomit- mg being regarded simply as a disorder of the stomach and bowels, without making any examination to discover a hernial tumour. Some- times the essential pathology of strangulated hernia seems to have been misunderstood, as in a case alluded to by Mr. Birkett; an opera- tion having been urged for the relief of a strangulated hernia, the gentleman in attendance immediately repHed: "But will it not be desirable to wait until the vomiting has ceased before the performance of the operation ?" Cold applications to the tumour, by means of the ice-bag or ether-spray, seem to have some advantage in facilitating reduction by the taxis. The blood-vessels being thus partially emptied, the bulk of the protrusion is somewhat diminished. But the tendency to gangrene will be increased by prolonged cold. Such applications are more useful as preventive of strangulation; and after strangulation has existed twenty-four hours, cold is inadmissible. Injuries inflicted in the emploijment of the Taxis.—They afEect sepa- rately, or in combination, the hernial contents, the sac, the integu- mental coverings. The nature of the injury is always the same- contusion or bruising, and the bowel may be lacerated or burst. Thus, with regard to the hernial contents, intestine being most delicate, it is more commonly injured than omentum. Indeed, the latter may sometimes protect the former. The injury liable to be done to the bowel should be estimated less by the symptoms of strangu- lation than by the violence and prolongation of the attempts employed in the taxis. After the fix^st act of vomiting, and during the succeeding