276 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 663. This species of polypus is usually extracted with forrxps, by a com-. bined movement of pulling and twisting. Forceps having rather long, serrated blades, to hold securely—nasal polypus-forceps (Fig. 603)—are used for the extraction, the instrument being made of sufficient length, slender, and straight, or slightly curved, according to the situation of the polypus. The neck of the polypus is first clearly ascertained by running a probe round the tumour, above and below the middle spongy bone, or its peduncular attachment elsewhere. _ Then—the patient sitting facing the light—the Surgeon, standing in front, elevates the tip of the nose with his thumb to gain as good a view as possible of the polypus; he introduces the forceps closed into the nostril, and approaching the peduncle, opens the blades just sufficiently to slide one above and the other below, and securely grasps the peduncle. A little movement of the hand will convey the feeUng of attachment, v?hile the soft, yielding texture of the polypoid peduncle, in closing the blades of the forceps, further gives assurance that the spongy bone, a crack- ling texture, has not been seized. By a gentle pull and jerking twist with the instrument, the polypus is detached and withdrawn from the nostril. Several polypi may successively be removed in like manner, care having been taken to distinctly feel the peduncular attachment before attempting to extract the growth. This method of extraction is attended with considerable pain, and not inconsiderable haemorrhage ; the latter often compelling the Surgeon to postpone any further removal of the polypi, to a second and a third sitting. Moreover, even with due precaution in tearing away a gelatinous polypus, its soft consistence yields, and the tumour is apt to come away piecemeal; or the delicate spongy bone or other basis of mucous attachment is liable to be injured, and it has even been urged that the separation of a small scale of bone with the peduncle will more efEectually prevent the return of the growth. This is obviously a pathological error respecting the nature of the ordinary mucous or gelatinous form of polypus ; and any extraction of bone should be regarded as a misadventure in the operation, which will probably be followed by caries of the exposed osseous surface. Having regard to all these considerations, the practical importance of which I had often experienced, I, some years since, devised a forceps which cuts and holds the peduncle. The ''polypus scissor-forceps (Fig. 664), as this instrument is named, combines scissors and rasped forceps, one edge of either blade being that of an ordinary scissors, the other broad and rasped. This instrument is, in fact, an adaptation ot the grape or flower scissors, commonly used in conservatories, iij