SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEEY. 90 tumour—a myxoma—had been growing slowly for seven years, from the date when the patient first discovered it, below the spine of the scapula, and about the size of a walnut. Within four months of operation, it had attained only to the bulk of a large orange; then it increased rapidly to as big as a boy's head. The patient made a good re- covery from the operation, but after six months she died from secondary growths in both lungs. The usefulness of the arm is well exhibited by the result of a complete excision of the scapula, by Mr. Syme. (Fig. 52G.) Excision of the scapula, with previous ex- cision of the head of the humerus, was performed by Dr. S. Logan; the disease in both bones having been caries, consequent on injury by a severe blow. An excellent result followed in three months; the wound had healed, and the cavity left by operation was completely occu- pied with a firm mass of deposit, while the limb had acquired the following uses, in regard to strength and power of movement:—the patient could lift perpendicularly twenty-six pounds, horizontally twenty-six and a half pounds, and by simply flexing the forearm he could raise fourteen pounds, could place his hand on either ear or shoulder, and could pass the hand freely over the face and front of the trunk, but could not execute similar movements backwards. Excision of Scapula, with Amputation of the Arm at Shoulder- joint.—This formidable operation was originally performed, as ali*eady stated, by Gumming, 1808; afterwards by Gaetani Bey, 18S0, and by Larrey, 1838; all of whom operated for gunshot injury—involving the arm, shoulder-joint, and scapula. A similar operation, for injury from machinery, is recorded by Mr. Patrick Heron Watson in the "Edin. Med. Journ.," 1869.* But this double operation—excision and amputation—has also beon performed separatehj, an interval of time elapsing between tbe former and the latter. Thus, Rigaud, of Stras- burg, removed the scapula and also the outer extremity of the clavicle, eight months after amputation at the shoulder-joint. In two months the vround healed, and two years afterwards the patient still remained well. A similar operation was performed by Sir. W. Fergusson in 1847, for caries of the scapula ; amputation of the arm at the shoulder having been performed three years previously, for similar disease. The patient was still alive and well in 1870, twenty-three years after operation. Excision of the Clavicle.—Partial excision of this bone, for necrosis, may be accomplished by an incision along the affected por- tion of bone, which, lying subcutaneously, can be removed with toler- able facility. The sternal end of the clavicle has been excised on account of its pressing on the oesophagus, in a case of permanent dislo- cation backwards. Gom.plete excision of the clavicle, for an osseous tumour, may bo * See also cases collected by C. S. JcafEreson, of Newcastle, Lancet, 1874.