729 IBBITABILITY OF THE BLADDER. The anatomical construction of the bladder has important relations to these various functional conditions of this organ. A recapitulation of its structure (p. 599) will tend to elucidate their pathology. The urinary bladder is essentially a hollow expansion of mucous membrane, continuous with that of the uretei's above and the urethra below ; the function of this membranous bag being simply to receive and retain the urine, as secreted by the kidneys and conveyed by the ureters, until convenience may permit of its discharge through the urethral passage of exit, from time to time. Accordingly, the external aspect of this receptacle is closely surrounded with bands of muscular fibres—the unstriped variety—disposed, amid cellular tissue, in figure- of-eight spiral loops, running vertically, obliquely, and borizontally. These muscular bands are plentifully supplied with blood-vessels—the superior and inferior vesical arteries—with also some branches of the uterine arteries in the female—both of which are divisions of the internal iliac artery; they inosculate and issue in large plexuses of veins. The latter are situated chiefly at the neck, sides, and base of the bladder, and terminate in tbe internal iliac veins. Lymphatics accompany the veins in their course. Nerves are supplied, partly from the sacral plexus, itself derived from the spinal cord, and these nerves are also distributed on the base and neck of the bladder; but a large supply coming from the hypogastric plexus of the great sympathetic is distributed on the upper surface and remaining portion of the bladder, not supplied by the sacral plexus of nerves. The muscular bands, blood-vessels, lymphatics, nerves, and cellular tissue together form a second layer or coat, superimposed on the " mucous coat," in which the vessels and nerves ramify and terminate; while externally, this "muscular coat" is partially invested by a reflection of the peritoneum, forming the " peritoneal coat." Irritability of the Bladder.—This functional condition is de- noted by frequent micturition, of a more or less painfully urgent character. The healthy irritability or contractility of the bladder is the vital property of the muscular hands, in its middle coat. Stimulated by the urine accumulated in the bladder, they contract both vertically and transversely, and by their combined action—aided by the voluntary action of the abdominal muscular parietes compressing the viscera downwards on the bladder—the contents of the organ are expelled, as occasion may require. The pathological condition of undue or in- creased irritability is, therefore, immediately referable to the muscular or middle coat of the bladder; but the painfully urgent desire to evacuate its contents arises from a similar exalted sensibility of one or other systems of nerves, or may be referable to both. Irritability of the bladder—thus a musculo-nervous functional con- dition of this organ—is itself a symptom only; yet it is one which has a wide-spread etiology, comprising both local and constitutional causes; the latter relating chiefly to morbid states of the blood, or of the nervous system, and connected frequently with various hygienic and social habits of life. Vesical irritability is, therefore, not merely a symptom which may be selected for the convenience of associating much valuable clinical experience pertaining to diseases, different in themselves ; but, as a symptom, it may have also a valuable etiological significance, by loading to the discovery of latent disease in operation,