HYDROPS PERICARDII.—DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 433 clilorlde or brornide of potassium, are very efficacious; but any sucli fluid should be thrown in with the utmost gentleness, and in moderate ouantity the patient being turned round from one side to the other, so as to rinse out the interior of the cavity. Dr. M. Goldsmith, U.S.V., has employed a solution of bromine and bromide of potassium, with ereat advantage. , „ ■ i ■, • ^ • i Since Dieulafoy's method of removing fluids by aspiration has come into use, this simple and safe procedure has become a substitute for the operation of paracentesis, in cases where the flaid is found to be sufficiently thin to escape through one of the larger-sized aspirator- needles (Fig. 759), or the tube may be screwed on to the cannula of the thoracic trocar. (See Fig. 758.) . -,• Hydeops Pericardii.—a collection of water m the pericardium may result from the same causes obstructing the circulation,^ as those of hydrothorax; the two conditions not unfrequently coexisting. The signs are—percussion-dulness, extending over the whole pen- cardiac region, and absence or muffling of the cardiac impulse, with perhaps an obvious fulness to the eye, and to the hand placed over this region. There is constant prsecordial oppression and dyspno3a, particularly in the recumbent posture, and faintness on exertion. Paracentesis Pericardii may be employed as a last resource. _A spot of the greatest dulness having been selected, a slight incision is made in the intercostal space, and a small trocar passed obliquely into the pericardium; or the aspirator may be here employed. Deformity of the Chest and Spine will inevitably result from pleurisy with extensive adhesion, or from tapping the chest, as for empyema, when the lung cannot sufficiently expand. In either case, the side of the chest collapses to meet the inactive lung, and there is more or less flattening deformity. No mechanical contrivance will be able to control this result. The case is best left to nature, and if the patient be young, he may out- grow the deformity. CHAPTER LIV. DISEASES OF THE BREAST. In considering Diseases of the Breast, it is absolutely necessary to regard the Mammary Gland in its physiological and anatomical rela- tions ; through the nervous, vascular, and lymphatic systems. The Breasts—meaning thereby the Mammary Glands—are inti- mately related, physiologically, with the organs of reproduction in the female. A healthy condition of these organs is associated with a healthy state of the breasts, and both undergo differences of functional activity at different periods of life;—before puberty, at puberty, and subsequently, during the menstrual period; and during pregnancy, parturition, and lactation. The anatomical relations of the breast consist principally in its intimate nervous connections; through the distribution of the spinal VOL. II. 2 F