URINARY CALCULI. 667 during fasting or sleep—states of the system more or less remote from the process of digestion—the urine becomes highly acid; but again more nearly alkaline after a meal, when a flow of the acid gastric juice into the storaach reduces the acidity of the blood. The recumbent posture, during sleep, was conceived by Dr. Prout to favour the accu- mulation of urine in the pelvis of the kidney, and thus possibly induce the formation of renal calculus. To meet all these contingencies, an increased quantity of water or other aqueous fluid should be drank, especially after an interval since food was taken, or at bedtime. The intervals between meals, more- over, should not be protracted, nor sleep in bed unnecessarily pro- longed. Thus, a tumbler of water may be taken once or twice daily; particularly before a late dinner, and on going to bed ; while instead, perhaps, of only two meals a day—breakfast and dinner—luncheon should also be taken, at nearly equal intervals, and early rising should be enjoined. The latter precaution will be of less consequence if the individual be accustomed to wake once or twice in the night, when the bladder can be relieved of its contents. _ Special Preventive Measures.—Predisposition to the formation of tiric acid calculus may be controlled by the medicinal and dietetic measures already noticed in relation to the precipitation of this acid as a urinary deposit. Alkalies, such as the bicarbonate, acetate, or citrate of potash, in drachm doses to a tumbler of water, as a diluent, should be taken morning and evening. Vichy water or lithia water may be drank in preference. A reduced proportion of animal or azotized food, and more active exercise to carry off any excess, will also have a preventive tendency. Free perspiration, to eliminate the acids of the sweat, the retention of which would precipitate uric acid in the urme, is scarcely less important. Hence, warm clothing, warm bath- mg, friction of the skin by the daily morning use of Turkish towels or horse-hair gloves and belt, are most efficacious. _ Predisposition to oxalate of lime concretion may probably be kept m subjection by the observance of similar precautions. Aqueous dnnks, to prevent any supersaturated solution of the oxalate; and the avoidance of those articles of diet which contain, or perhaps generate, oxalic acid—as rhubarb, sorrel, onions, tomato, and sugar, or sugar- forming food. Animal food, with brandy-and-water instead of beer or wme, form a suitable diet; but no hard water should be drank—it should be distilled, to deprive it of lime. Otherwise, the lime com- bining with oxalic acid would induce the urinary concretion. Medicinal preventive measures may be either acids or alkalies. The mineral acids, particularly hydrochloric and nitro-muriatic acids, were strondv recommended by Dr. Prout. On the other hand, alkalies might prove serviceable, if uric acid by conversion be the source of the oxalic acid ±!oth acids and alkalies may be administered alternately, to combat any tendency to an association of the two species of calculous concre- tion. The prevention of phosphatic concretions relates especially to the ear^/iT/ phoRphate,s—the more common constituents of such calculi Ihe phosphates of lime and. magnesia are deposited in connection with ■■ an ammoniacal alkaline state of the urine, as depending on muco- purulent cystitis. Concretion is apt to form around some portion of I pus or mucus, or a fragment of any stone left in "the bladder after