827 CHEONIC ENLARGEMENT OP THE TESTICLE. tutional treatment consists in the administration of antimonial saline aperients, combined with, opium, hyoscyamus, or other sedatives. When, indeed, the inflammation follows gonorrhoea, hyoscyamus m fuU doses, with camphor mixture, will, I have found, often prove sufficient to subdue the pain and swelling ; unaided by any other medicinal agents. This method of treatment was, I believe, originally proposed by Mr. Gay. Pressure, as by means of strapping the testicle, has been highly recommended, in the acute stage, by Fricke, of Hamburg ; but at this period it generally increases the inflammation, or at least intolerably aggravates the pain. Chronic enlargement, resulting from acute inflammation, is best reduced by strapping. Simple adhesive plaster may be used, or the emplastrum ammoniaci cum hydrargyro and soap-plaster, as affording both pressure and a stimulant application. Strapping a testicle is a simple proceeding, but requires to be done so as to give uniform support. Several strips of plaster must be pro- vided, each about an inch broad, and of sufficient lengths to embrace the enlarged testicle, vertically and horizontally. The scrotum having been shaved, it should be drawn well upwards on the side of the enlargement. Then, a long strip of plaster is passed from under the scrotum above the enlarged testicle, and brought round the correspond- ing side of the scrotum, so as to isolate the testis from the opposite side. Strips are then passed in succession, longitudinally and horizon- tally, each strip overlapping the next, and drawn moderately tight; thus uniformly enveloping and moderately compressing the whole organ. Care should be observed not to strangle the scrotum above, as sloughing has been known to occur. Chronic Enlargement of the Testicle, or Sarcocele.—This condition of the Testicle may be the result of simple inflammation, having a traumatic origin ; or it may be a manifestation of certain constitutional diseases—Syphilis or Scrofula. Thence, three varieties of Sarcocele may be recognized, in regard to their origin. But the attempt to carry their distinction further has failed to establish any essential points of pathological difference;—in respect to the structural condition of the chronic enlargement, its signs or external characters with regard to diagnosis, and its terminations. The peculiar treatment requisite will, of course, depend upon the origin or cauae of the Sarcocele. Syphilitic Sarcocele.—In this variety of chronic enlargement of the testicle, the gland itself is chiefly affected, and less frequently the epididymis. It consists of a fibrinous deposit, in the form of nodules, situated in the interstitial connective tissue of the glandular structure, in the septa, mediastinum, and tunica albuginea; and sometimes extending into the connective tissue of the epididymis. Thence, the organ becomes considerably enlarged, to the size of a turkey's egg, or perhaps of a cocoa-nut; it has an ovoid shape, is heavy, hard, and nodulated. But, when the deposit is principally central, the organ may be smooth externally. An effusion of fluid sometimes takes place into the tunica vaginalis, constituting hydro-sarcocele; a condition which masks the enlargement of the testicle, until the fluid is evacu- ated. There is little or no pain, only the inconvenience of the dragging weight. One, or not unfrequently both testicles, may be affected; though not in an equal degree, and more often in sue-