FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS OF THE RECTUM AiND ANUS. 597 copious use of enemata, a practice more common on the Continent than in this country. Frencli ladies are, I believe, especially subject to the complaint, through the prevalent custom with them more par- ticularly of neglecting the calls of Nature, and then seeking relief by lavements. It occurs- also among the enfeebled by age. The treatment of faecal accumulation in the rectum should be chiefly mechanical. Impacted and indurated faeces may be broken up and scooped out, by means of a lithotomy-scoop or a dessert-spoon. In- jections, in the first instance, have but little effect in dissolving the mass, and generally return immediately ; after extraction of the larger lumps, the remainder can be thus removed, and the bowel washed out. Irritable Becium.—In this functional condition of the rectum, there is frequeat and urgent desire to def89cate ; analogous to the frequent and urgent desire to micturate, as denoting irritability of the urinary bladder. And the analogy between these two affections holds good still farther, in the common cause of rectal irritability being an un- healthy and irritating state of the feeces, in consequence of gastro- intestinal derangementsjust as vesical irritability depends frequently on morbid conditions of the urine. Both affections also depend often on morbid states- of the nervous system, and are much influenced by the attention being directed to the part. Various diseases also of the bowel give rise to its irritability, and in particular, ulcer of the rectum ; but the irritability is not then purely functional. The treatment of rectal irritability must have reference to these diverse causes—whether the state of the alvine evacuations, or of the nervous system, or the associated, diseases of the rectum. Opiate suppositories are most effectual in restraining the distressing inconvenience of an irritable rectum. Irritability of the sphinoter alone is- sometimes met with, unaccom- panied by any apparent disease of the part. It occurs usually in hysterical females. Piain- and difficulty in defsecation are experienced, owing to spasmodic contraction of the sphincter, resisting the expul- sive power of the bowel; and when the finger is forced in,, it is tightly grasped by the muscle as if gii't by a cord. In old-standing irritability, the muscle often becomes hypertrophied,. encircling the finger like a thick unyielding ring. The treatment of this affection consists in mild laxative aperients to insure soft motions, and sedative applications. An ointment contain- ing chloroform, opium, or belladonna should be used by means of a grooved bougie; so that some of the sedative shall reach the mucous membrane lining the internal sphincter, which is also occasionally affected. The simple introduction of a bougie appears to afford great relief, when resistance to the evacuation of fteces is considerable. In obstinate cases, and especially when the sphincter has become hyper- trophied, a slight incision into the muscle will usually give relief. It should be done on one side, towards the ischium. Constitutional treatment, as in other hysterical affections, must be attended to ; but often, after having failed in every way to overcome this troublesome complaint, it ceases spontaneously. Neuralgia of the Becttim.—Unlike irritability,, this complaint is essentially a painful affection of the rectum, and always unaccompanied by any discoverable disease of the part. The character of the pain is neuralgic, in its being intensely severe, and not excited or aggravated