SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. lodged in the abdomen may be discharged per anum. When this han pens soon after the wound, it is probable that the ball directly pen trated he mtestmal canal; but as occurring some timeafter the Wry the ball has probably entered the canal through ulceration, or hv the SX^inttstkif '^^'''■^ lodged out. Liver —Owing to the highly vascular nature of this organ, rupture or wound ot its substance is attended with copious haemorrhage and proportionate collapse. A bilious discharge distinguishes wound of the liver. Recovery from either injury has been known to occur in a con.siderable proportion of such cases; but followed often by peritonitis or hepatic abscess, and sometimes by jaundice, or, as Bernard has shown, saccharine diabetes. The gall-bladder alone may be the seat of injury, and rupture or wound seems to have been almost always fatal, ihe rnortahty of these injuries is much increased by additional injuries to adjoining parts; such as fractures of the ribs, or lesions of the lung, diaphragm, stomach, and other organs; or by the lodgment of a baU or portions of clothing in gunshot wound involving the liver. The spleen—a. fragile and highly vascular organ—is perhaps equally liable with the liver to rupture, and wound may occur ; either form of injury is attended with severe internal hgemorrhage and collapse, and both are often fatal. But complete reparation may take place, as Jjegouest observes, in even some grave cases. Protrusion of the wounded portion of spleen has proved a favourable complication, by lessening the risk of hsemorrhage internally, and of peritonitis. _ _ The Jddneys are sometimes ruptured or wounded. Frequent mictu- rition of bloody urine is the diagnostic symptom; although the secre- tion of urine may be suppressed by complete structural disorganization of the kidney, and thus the absence of this symptom is no assurance that the kidney is uninjured. The escape of urine through a wound will at once indicate the nature of this injury. Any injury to the kidney may induce nephritis ; and when the peritoneum is implicated, urine escaping into that cavity, the case becomes almost hopeless from intense peritonitis. Otherwise, lesions of the kidney are not irre- coverable. The pancreas has occasionally been the seat of lesion from rupture or wound, including gunshot injury; and death is liable to ensue from hemorrhage or peritonitis ; but, more frequently, the accompanying injuries to other organs are the cause of death. I am not aware of any distinctive symptoms referable to injuries of the pancreas, for no func- tional derangement is appreciable. Inflammation around the injured part of this organ sometimes occurs ; just as a circumscribed hepatitis or splenitis may arise from wound of the liver or the spleen; or a localized traumatic pneumonia, when the lung is injured. The Diaphragm is most frequently ruptured in connection with other organs; it may also be penetrated by a stab-wound, by gun.shot injury, or by a fractured rib without any external wound. The visceral complication is the fatal element in these diaphragmatic injuries. Hernial protrusion of the abdominal viscera into the thoracic cavity may take place; or occlusion of the gap by the formation of a false membrane is a possibly reparative issue. Penetrating Wounds, not involving any viscus—are distinguished simply by the absence of any symptoms of visceral complication. The