FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA.. 525 Fig. 807.* The resiilts of this operation give the encouraging proportion of 65 to 70 per cent, of successful cases; without reckoning doubtful and imperfect cases, and with a fair allowance for imperfect records and future casualties. This average percentage is also drawn from entirely unselected cases, as presented; oblique and direct, good and bad, many of them of a very aggravated kind, some of enormous size, and treated by operative procedures some of which were more or less tentative. IrrediiciUe 7ier«m.—Inguino-scrotal hernia, when irreducible, often attains a large size. It must be supported in a bag-truss, and thus also somewhat protected from injury. Femoral or Crural Hernia.— Course.—This form of hernial pro- trusion descends vertically below Poupart's ligament, through the crural rinc and canal; lying in the sheath of the femoral vessels, internal to°the femoral vein. Emerging from beneath the sharp upper margin of the saphenous opening in the fascia lata—that portion known as the upper cornu, or the femoral ligament, of the falciform border or process of Burns—the hernia comes forward, in front, through the opening, and then turns upon itself abruptly, upwards, towards Poupart's ligament,—thus overlaying the portion in the crural canal; so that the upper cornu of the falciform border and the crural sheath intervene between the superficial and deep portions of the hernial pro- trusion. This curved course of femoral hernia is very important in relation to the direction of pressure neces- sary for reduction; it being requisite that the protrusion should be made to retrace its course, downwards, backwards, and upwards. Anatomical Coverings, and Relations.— The layers of different textures which femoral hernia receives, successively, in its course from the crural ring, externally, are as follows :—peritoneal pouch forming the sac, sub-serous cellular tissue or septum crurale over the opening of the crural ring, fascia transversalis forming the anterior portion of the femoral sheath,—which with the septum crurale constitutes the fascia propria of Sir A. Cooper (Fig. 807) ; and over the saphenous opening, the cribriform fascia or deep layer of the superficial fascia, with the superficial layer of this fascia containing fat, and then the skin. These anatomical coverings are interesting in their relation to the development of femoral hernia; but, as in other forms of Hernia, the coverings become so altered and amalgamated as to lose their im- portance surgically. To persons who are fond of enumerating hernial coverings, it may be observed that the investments of femoral hernia are essentially the same as those of inguinal hernia, less two : the intercolumnar fascia and the cremasteric fascia, in oblique inguinal; * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 1345. Large femoral hernia, in the male; showing the fascia propria. On the inner side of the sac, the spermatic cord is pushed inwards; externally, the sac overlaps the femoral vessels, and extends to within half an inch of the anterior crural nerve. The sac contained part of the right colon, adherent, but not strangulated. In the preparation, posteriorly, the epigastric artery is shown, running tortuously from the upper border of the sac. (Howship.)