ORGANIC STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 777 The ^'esults of iaternal urethrotomy are also satisfactory, as regards the immediate restoration of the urethral canal to its natural calibre ; the ultimate result may be permanent, or evince a tendency to tho return of stricture,—generally, however, amenable to dilatation. It should also be observed that in both modes of internal urethrotomy, the strictured portion of the canal must be generally large enough to admit an instrument equal in size to a No. 4 or 5 catheter; and that with this degree of patency, it may well be considered probable that further and perhaps complete enlargement might be accomplished by dilatation. I very rarely find it necessary to have recourse to internal section of the urethra. But the operation is at least a safe procedure ; only one death having occurred in the above series of 200 cases. (2.) External Urethrotomy.—Division of the stricture by external incision is an alternative operation of urethrotomy, the earliest instance of which, for the cure of stricture, is recorded by Wiseman (1652). A few years afterwards, Solingen, at Livourne, adopted this procedure ; followed by Pran9ois Tolet and Oolet (1690). J. A. Petit and Le Dran (1740) had recourse to a similar operation ; and John Hanter (1783) performed the operation now known as the perineal section; but it was rarely employed until advocated by Mr. Grrainger, of Bii-mingham (1815), and afterwards by Mr. Arnott. These operations refer to cases in which no instrument could be passed through the strictare. More recently (1844), Mr. Syme has advocated external division of the stricture in cases where, although a catheter can be passed, no other treatment has afEorded sufficient or permanent relief. Perineal section, as the operation of external division of the strictm^e may be generally designated, is applicable in two degrees of extreme urethral contraction:—permeable stricture, through which a slender grooved staff can be passed, and the external incision made upon this instrument; and impermeable stricture, through which no instrument apparently can be passed, the only guide being a full-sized instrument passed down to the stricture, towards the point of which the external incision is directed. The condition of stricture appropriate for perineal section is that of considerable, even cartilaginous, induration, both in thicJcness and extent, appreciable usually by external examination with the finger ; coupled perhaps with perineal fistulas, either chronic or numerous." (a.) Permeable Stricture.—Perineal section, by Syme's opei-ation, is performed as follows :—The instruments required are—a staff, slender, slightly curved, and well-grooved in its lower half, and the upper of full size; a pointed scalpel; a broad director; and a silver catheter. No. o or 10. The staff is passed through the stricture, so that the shoulder or termination of the upper thick portion rests against the upper part or face of the stricture. The patient is tied up as for lithotomy, and I the staff held in like manner by an assistant, with the scrotum drawn I forwards. The Surgeon, sitting in front, makes an incision in the 1 raphe or median line of the perineum, about two inches in extent and ] proceeds cautiously straight to the shoulder of the staff', feeling his way >with the forefinger of the left hand. Having clearly reached that ipomt, he takes the staff from the assistant in his left hand, and enters tthe point ot the knife m its groove, behind the stricture (Fiff. 924); tthence cutting upwards to the shoulder of the staff until it can bo rpassed onwards into the bladder. This instrument is then withdrawn,