891 FRACTURES OF THE SPINE. on the back of tbo neck across an iron bar, in a case recorded by ^^^islocation often accompanies spinal fracture ; and dislocation of +he articular processes in the back and loins cannot, perhaps, take Blace without fracture. In the neck, these two forms of injury may occur independently. (Fig. 725.) This difference is owing to the different direction of these processes in the three regions of the spina; in the cervical region having an oblique or almost a horizontal direction; while in the dorsal and lumbar regions they are vertical. _ The spinal cord and its membranes suffer compression or lacera- tion in fracture with displacement of the bodies of the vertebra (Fig. 726) ; but the membranes are comparatively rarely ruptured or torn, although the cord has been completely divided in some cases. _ Arterial hemorrhage in the substance of the cord is inconsideraWe ; the vessels which permeate the cord being minute and soon ceasing to hleed. But venous blood, from the large sinuses in the vertebral canal, collects in perhaps considerable quantity between the vertebrae and the dura mater ; and particularly under the arches of the s^ertebrse, where the attachment of this membrane is loosest. Any such extrava- sation of blood will be an additional source of pressure on the cord. Siimiotoms.—The symptoms of spinal fracture are both general and special, or pertaining to the particular region which may be the seat of fracture. _ . The general symptoms are, locally, some alteration of contour m the line of the spinoiis pi-ocesses, depending on and proportionate to the disijlacement. The processes above the seat of fracture are depressed, and correspondingly prominent below. The transverse processes also may have become prominent, and the spine twisted on itself. Rarely can any mobility or crepitation be felt, unless the fracture be limited to one or other of these processes. But more or less swelling and discolouration are conspicuous. Pain is experienced at the seat of injury, and there is a notable inability to support the trunk erect. The general symptoms otherwise refer to injury of the spinal cord,—as also depending on the displacement. The functions of the cord are more or less completely suspended or destroyed. Thence, paralysis of sensation and volun- tary motion below the seat of fracture; constipation, with involuntary evacuation of the feeces, which, become blackish, pultaceous, and have an offensive odour; and retention of urine, which becomes am- moniacal, and is voided by a dribbling incontinence. Such are the regular symptoms. Priapism and emission of the semen may occur as occasional symptoms. Fracture in the upper part of the lumhar region produces—in * Univ. Coll. Mus., 1, 59. Fracture of anterior portion of body of fifth cervical vertebra—apparently produced by forcible flexion of the neck; fragments of the bone project in front, and posteriorly the body is divided into halves by a vertical fissure, and the lower border projects slightly within the spinal canal. The articu- lar processes of the fifth and sixth vertebrae are widely separated, the posterior common ligament having been ruptured. The arch of the sixth vertebra in fractured across its pedicles. Fig. 727.*