PARAPHIMOSIS—CANCER OF THE PENIS. 801 trial, tlie stricture must be divided. This is done by separating tbe two swollen folds of the prepuce to reach the circular constriction, in the furrow between them; and then dividing it with the point of a narrow bistoury on each side of the middle line, thus avoiding the dorsal vessels of the penis. A slight incision, almost a touch with the knife, will be sufficient to enable the prepuce to be drawn forward in the manner just described. It may be requisite to make a few punc- tures in the swollen preputial folds to evacuate serous fluid, before reduction can be accomplished. And perhaps also, the effusion having become partly consolidated, the prepuce cannot be drawn forwards ; although the stricture has been divided. But, in a few days, the swelling subsides by absorption, and then reduction becomes easy. The period after paraphimosis when division of the stricture becomes necessary is, I should say, usually about thirty-six hours; and later than that, the swelling may have to be diminished by the additional aid of puncture, or by absorption. Gangrene.—Inflammation and cBdema of the prepuce are often met with, but gangrene seldom, unless in consequence of a chancre having assumed a sloughing character or a state of sloughing phagedasna. Sometimes, from ulceration of the urethra, gangrene has arisen from extravasation of urine into the corpu.s spongiosum ; of which I have seen a case, and have figured a specimen in another case,—in con- nection with the signs of Extravasation of Urine. Grangrene of the penis has also been known to ensue in typhus fever and in paraplegia. A case of spontaneous gangrene occurred in a patient under the care of Mr. Partridge, in King's College Hospital; and I have known a gangrenous patch to form, in a patient whom I attended for orchitis which rapidly proceeded to sloughing. Hypertrophy of the Prepuce.—As the result of chronic inflammation, a solid oedema of the prepuce may subside ; but an hypertrophied con- dition or a kind of elephantoid growth of the prepuce is sometimes produced, necessitating excision. In one such case, which Vidal relates, the organ had attained to an enormous size ; as large as a thigh and reaching to below the knees. Yet this monstrous growth was success- fully excised. Warts.—The mucous membrane of the prepuce and glans is often the seat of warty growths, as the result of long-continued irritation from gonorrhoeal discharge or that of a syphilitic sore. The ichorous matter accumulating under the prepuce gives rise to these growths, especially in the furrow around the corona glandis. Cleanliness is, therefore, the best preventive. Treatment is removal of the growths ; either by snipping them o£E with curved scissors, or destroying them by dusting the surface with a powder consisting of equal parts of savine and copper. Cancee of the Penis occurs in two forms : Scirrhus, and Epithelial cancer. The characters of these diseases present nothing peculiar. Scirrhus commences as a hard tubercle in the groove under the glans, and thence infiltrates the body of the organ. Its production seems to be predisposed by congenital phimosis. Thus, of twelve patients with this form of cancer, who came under Hey's observation, nine had con- genital phimosis. Conversely, the Jews, who are circumcised, are, Travers states, seldom subject to the disease. Epithelial Cancer is. Professor Humphry believes, the only form of cancer of the penis. It VOL. II. 3 p