LATERAL LITHOTOJIY. 681 Fig. 879. finger, fitting into the incision, in the same direction as the external or superficial incision ; while the point of the blade, by slightly depressing the handle to a very limited angle with the staff, follows the curve of the staff, until the bladder is entered. If the knife, directed sideways, runs firmly in the groove of the staff, so as not to slip out to the left, the blade cannot go wrong, and the incision must be right. The bladder is known to be entered by resistance ceasing, and perhaps a gush of water taking place. This incision may be made rapidly and boldly by a practised lithotomist; I have seen Listen run the knife along the groove right into its terminal pit, which the point of the blade might be heard to strike, even turn- ing the point of the instrument. A less-practised lithotomist must make the incision more slowly and cautiously. A iutton-jpointed litho- tomy-knife may, perhaps, be used more safely, as it locks into, and has a more secure hold in, the groove of the staff. Such a knife was always employed by CoulSon. It is introduced into the groove of the staff, after a smaU incision, to the extent of three or four lines, has been made into the membranous urethra by the sharp-pointed knife, in the perineal incision. I have never yet thought it necessary to use this instrument. In withdrawing the knife through the prostate, it should pass over the finger, in the same direction as in introducing it, and still in the groove of the staff, so as not to enlarge the incision. This, the deep or prostatic incision, is therefore essentially limited in its extent through the prostate; not exceeding twice the width of the blade of the knife, and certainly not passing beyond the base of the gland, where its capsule prevents infiltration of urine into the cellular texture of the pelvic cavity behind the prostate. This pre- caution is especially characteristic of the Listonian operation. On withdrawing the knife, the left forefinger is pushed forward after it through the prostatic incision into the bladder; and, if this manoeuvre be executed adroitly, the introduction of the one follows the exit of the other,—the finger replacing the knife before the water escapes in any gush from the bladder. The is made to enlarge the wound by a sort of twisting, or tun- nelling motion; whereby the opening is dilated and the pros- tate somewhat split, as with a blunt gorget, instead of having been cut freely by the knife. As the finger proceeds, at the same time the stone is felt for. This double duty of the finger, as a dilator and a searcher, may be conveniently performed while the Surgeon is taking the forceps with his other hand from an assistant, or from a basin of warm water at his side. Having entered the bladder, and found the stone, the assistant IS directed to withdraw the staff. Then the Surgeon introducing the closed blades of the forceps over the finger, he slides them into the bladder, withdrawing the finger at the same time, and opening the