TRAUMATIC INFLAMMATION OP THE BRAIN. 175 throuo"!! the petrous portion of the temporal bone, is often injured in this manner ; paralysis of the facial or auditory nerve generally denoting fracture of the base of the skull. A portion of broken bone, distant from the foramen or canal of transmission, sometimes occasions injury to a nerve with which it is connected. Extravasation of bloo d at the base of the brain may affect a cerebral nerve, by pressure on the brain at the origin of the nerve, or on the nerve in some part of its course. This mode of paralysis is more temporary ; absorption proceeding, it gradually disappears. Biahetes mellitus may be mentioned as a consequence, occasionally, of cerebral injuries, whether from a blow on the head, or fracture of the skull. The Treatment of these implications of the cerebral nerves is chiefly negative. The natural process of reparation after any such injury and the restoration of function will probably prove more effectual than any blind interference. If the lesion depend on extravasated blood, we know too little of the remedial efficacy of mercurials and blistering for promoting absorption, or of nervine tonics for restoring nerve-function, to regard these measures with much confidence. Traumatic Inflammation of the Brain, and its Membranes.— Pathologically considered. Inflammation may affect the Brain or its Membranes, separately; and when of traumatic origin, it may be appropriately named Traumatic Encephalitis and Traumatic Menin- gitis, respectively. Practically considered, however, these affections are identical, the one giving rise to the other; and both may be described as Inflammation of the Brain. As consequent on Injuries of the Head, this inflammation was accurately described by Pott. Symptoms.—The symptoms of traumatic intra-cranial inflammation are principally these :—pain in the head, more or less intense, limited to the seat of injury, or spreading thence over the whole head; sleep- lessness ; contraction of the pupils; intolerance of light and sound, with general feverishness, as denoted by a rapid, bounding, hard pulse and hot, dry skin. These symptoms, becoming more marked, are succeeded by special disturbance of the brain-functions ; delirium or wandering, sickness, restless tossing about, and perhaps convulsions. The aspect of the patient is, indeed, sufficiently characteristic—the excitement and agita- tion, wild glistening eyes, injected conjunctivse, flushed face, and throbbing carotids, all indicate the state of the cerebral circulation. The second stage contrasts very much with that of excitement. Drowsiness, stupor and coma, with dilatation of the pupils, a slow, labouring pulse, stertorous breathing, spasmodic twitchings of the muscles, paralysis, and relaxation of the sphincters, together indicate effusion, and compression of the brain. Rigors announce suppuration. The structural alterations or appearances resulting from inflamma- tion of the brain, and membranes, vary according to the seat and progress of the inflammation. They may be summarily enumerated as follow :—Suppuration in the diploe ; lymph or pus of a greenish yellow colour, circumscribed on the outer or cranial surface of the dura mater between.it and the bone, and diffused beneath this membrane within the cavity of the arachnoid, and on the pia mater, filhng its meshes and prolongations between the convolutions; so that the membrane thus thickened can be removed as a whole from the brain, and looks as if it