438 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Chronic inflammation may be the consequence of acute inflammation or arise independently as a scrofulous affection. Induration and swelll ing of the breast, in part or of the entire gland, is usually followed by suppuration, burrowing, and sinuses or fistulfB of an obstinate character. Chronic abscess must be distinguished from cystic-tumour of the breast. Both having a painless and an indolent character, the history will partly distinguish abscess, and puncture with a grooved needle will always determine the diagnosis. The treatment consists in the evacuation of matter, as occasion requires, and the support of strapping or bandaging; with a tonic and nourishing course of general treatment. Chronic sinuses may be closed by stimulating injections, or by laying them open as a last resource. Milk fistulse will not usually heal until the secretion of the gland is arrested. Scrofulous enlargement, or tumour, of the Breast is a result of mam- mary inflammation in scrofulous subjects. In a marked case under my care, the breast proceeded to abscess, with curdy discharge, followed by obstinate sinuses, and induration, like that of scirrhus, resulting in a hard, puckered cicatrix. But there were also remnant scars of lym- phatic glandular abscesses in the neck. Tuberculous deposit also is noticed by Velpeau, and as occurring in two situations : in the gland, or in the skin and subcutaneous cellular textures. The axillary glands are sometimes the seat of this deposit. I removed a conglomerate bunch of these glands fi-om the axUla of a middle-aged single woman ; the deposit being yellow, opaque tubercle, mixed with cretaceous matter. Inflammation of the Nipple.—This affection often arises during suck- ling, and leads to superficial ulceration or excoriation, as cracks, fissures, or chaps. Great pain attends the act of suckling, and inflammation of the breast may be induced. Treatment.—Frequent ablution with warm water often proves more remedial than lotions, ointments, or other applications. These may be simply protective; as collodion, glycerine, almond oil, or some dry powder, as prepared chalk or flour dusted around the nipple; stimu- lating applications, as a touch with nitrate of silver; astringents, as tannin or zinc ointment; and narcotics, to relieve pain. The difficulty is to manage the breast in a state of secreting activity, and the suck- ling of the child, the nipple or perhaps both nipples being sore. Some of the above-mentioned applications would be decidedly poisonous to the infant; narcotics in particular. Various shields have been devised to protect the nipple from the pressure and dragging caused by the act of sucking; and such a contrivance will also shield the infant's mouth from any noxious matter left around the nipple, in the use of these curative applications. Abscess of the Nipple or of the areola has no special characters or treatment. Other diseases of this part, as tumours, are not peculiar. Cheonic Induration of portions, or of the whole, of the mammary gland is another common condition; the induration having a finely lobular or granular character, owing to the acini or csecal terminations of the lactiferous ducts being gorged with epithelium. This state of the gland may be found in breasts of all sizes and shapes; in the large,