863 OVARIOTOMY. doubt that it contributes to the success of the operation. It is not uncommon to find entire absence of suppuration in the wound or suture tracts. Ovariotomy consists generally of the following seven steps or pro- cedures in succession:—An incision in the middle line or linea alba between the umbilicus and pubes ; introduction of the fingers or hand into the peritoneal cavity to gently explore the situation, nature, and extent of any adhesions, in order to determine the practicability of com- pleting the operation ; tapping the tumour, if cystic ; cautious separa- tion of any recent adhesions ; securing the pedicle; separation of the tumour from its pedicle, and removal of the tumour; closure of the wound. In carrying out these directions, cevtain particulars must be observed as essential to the probable success of the operation. The patient clad in blankets, and ether having been administered, the bladder is emptied by a catheter. The Surgeon, standing on the patient's right side, makes an incision in the middle line or linea alba, commencing about two inches below the umbilicus and carried down to about four inches in length. The abdominal wall being divided by a few horizontal touches of the knife, the peritoneal cavity is laid open. Care must be taken not to mistake the peritoneal membrane for the cyst-wall, Fig. 967.* and thus proceed to detach that membrane from the fascia transversalis; an error which has happened several times. The peritoneum having been opened sufficiently to introduce the finger, it should be slightly raised from the cyst to make certain of this fact, and then laid open on the finger or on a broad director. A longer, or even a shorter, incision may be requisite, according to the size of the tumour, and the situation and extent of the adhesions. It is rarely necessary to have recourse to the long incision, extend- ing from the sternum to the pubes. The wound may be extended upward or down- ward, as found desirable. This is best done by a strong pair of scissors, bent at a slight angle on the edge. The fingers or the hand are now introduced into the peritoneal cavity, and the existence of adhesions ascer- tained, their situation, nature, and extent. They may be such as to determine the pro- priety of not completing the operation; the abdominal section would then have to be closed. When, as usual, the operation is proceeded with, the tumour, if cystic, should be tapped, in order to more conveniently effect its removal, and through an abdominal aperture of smaller size than would otherwise be requisite. A large hollow trocar and cannula is thrust into the most prominent part of the tumour, and the fluid drawn off through the cannula. (Fig. 967.) * Ovarian hollow trocar, with claws for fixing the tumour. (Spencer Wells.)