DISEASES OF THE NASAL FOSS/E. 275 catarrbal coryza, from thickening of the mucous membrane covering the middle spongy bone, from displacement of the septum to one side, from abscess of the septum, and from an extraneous body, as a fruit- stone or a nasal calculus. Certain other polypoid growths are also liable to form in the nasal fossa, but these may be diagnosed chiefly by their special characters. Fibrous pohjpus presents a firm resistant tumour, instead of a soft, elastic substance like an oyster; and which does not vary in size with hygrometric changes. It is more broadly pedunculated, and springs from the periosteum beneath the mucous membrane. Its structure is essentially fibrous, and much more vascular than gelatinous polypus. Sometimes, according to H. Cloquet, it becomes encrusted with phos- phate of lime, and partially ossified. It may spring from the septum, and is usually solitary. • This species of polypus grows more rapidly, attains a larger size, and, owing to its higher vascularity, has a greater tendency to bleed. Increasing in size, the tumour causes greater displacement of the.sur- rounding bones in the nasal fossa—as deviation of the septum, depres- sion of the palate, projection of the nasal bones; or it extends backwards and is prolonged into the pharynx. It is also apt to send ofEsets into the various sinuses, in the frontal, ethmoid, and superior maxillary bones, thus appearing in situations where little expected, as in the pterygo-maxillary fossa, or in the orbit through an aperture formed in its inner wall. All the symptoms due to the presence of a tumour in the nasal fossa are much more aggravated. The Surgeon should, however, remember the possibility of a polypoid growth springing from within the cranium, the frontal sinus, or the maxiUary antrum, and making its appearance in the nasal fossa. Malignant or Cancerous pohjpus.—This, the third species of polypoid growth, is a soft tumour, of a deep red or dark purple colour, prone to bleed, and painful; fixed to the bone, and springing, perhaps, from a greater depth, within the cranial or sphenoidal cells. The nasal portion may be only the external protrusion of a deep-seated medullary tumour. Growing rapidly, with great expansion of the nostril, it tends to pro- trade through the nasal or lachrymal bones, and frequently displaces the eye. It discharges a foetid, bloody, ichorous fiuid; while repeated haemorrhage, and acute, lancinating pains, striking up into the root of the nose and forehead, accompany the development of this species of polypus, and reduce the patient's strength to the last extremity. The disease occurs only in adults or in advanced life. Treatment.—The three species of polypus, above described and contrasted, are mcurable by any known medicinal treatment, whether iocai or constitutional. Kemoval by operation is the only resource, ut the different species of tumour are thus removable with very uurerent degrees of facility, and probability of non-recurrence (reZafenows polypus may perhaps be withered by the influence of nnSfr^' TP®"''^^^ powdered tannin, which may be blown into the semri °''f ^ ^ rarely, the polypus to hinr!!' !f P'^^^^ spontaneously ; and its ejection has been known by sloiLT;;, J f Plated application of strong stimulant injections, compSf U ^^'^ ^^^^'^ be an uncertain and in^ mpiete result, and probably followed by recurrence of the growth