G30 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. urea also present crystals; the former in hexagonal plates and rhombic octohedraj (Fig. 863); the latter in rectangular and right rhombic prisms, with a tendency to the formation of Fig. 8G3. dumb-bell shaped oxalate of urea. Chemical Tests.—Nitric acid added to a few drops of urine on a slip of glass, forms the nitrate of urea (CgH^NgOa.HCNOs), which, on evaporation, appears as a crust, more or less thick, according to the quantity of urea. Oxalate of urea (031141^200,110,0263) is formed in like manner. Either compound can be verified by microscopical examination, while the chemical test indicates, approxi- mately, the quantity of urea present. Other tests are described in special works, but the above is the most ready method of detecting and determining urea. The separation of urea, in a free state, may be obtained from either the nitrate or oxalate, by the following simple process:—Dissolve the oxalate of urea, for example, in hot water, and treat the solution with carbonate of lime, until effervescence ceases; the oxalate of lime thus formed, and any excess of the carbonate, are precipitated, leaving the urea in solution. Carbonate of baryta may be used instead of the lime salt. Nitrate of urea may be decomposed iu like manner. Crystals of nitrate of baryta are thrown down; the fluid is to be filtered, evapo- rated, and the i-esidue extracted with ether. Distinctive Characters of Urate of_ Soda, Uarthy Phosphate, and Pus. —These three deposits are very similar in appearance, but have widely different pathological significance. Their certain and easy distinction is therefore of great practical importance. The following simple method of examination, and distinctive characters, are given by Dr. Lionel Beale. Let the urine stand in a conical glass for some time. Then pour off the clear supernatant fluid, and transfer a small portion of the deposit into a test-tube. Add about half the bulk of solution of potash, and observe:— 1. If urate of soda and ammonia, the potash may cause the mixture to become clear, but not viscid. 2. If entirely phosphate, no change will be produced. 3. If pus deposit, the mixture will become clear, and very stringy or viscid. 4. If both pus and phosphate be present, the mixture gelatinizes, but does not become clear. Microscopic examination will confirm this chemical test. Phosphates in Uiuke.—Amorphous phosphate of lime—^bone-earth (3CaO,P05). Crystallized phosphate of lime (2CaO,HO,P05 + 3H0). Phosphate of ammonia and magnesia—triple phosphate (NH^O,2MgO, PO5 + I2HO). Phosphate of . soda (2NaO,HO,POs + 24HO). Acid phosphate of soda (NaO,2HO,P05 + 2H0).—Physical Characters of Urine.—Turbid in all cases, on depositing phosphates; of a pale yellow colour, if the deposition be occasioned by fixed alkali—potash or soda, and of an orange-brown colour, if occasioned by carbonate of ammonia —volatile alkali; the odour is ammoniacal in the latter case, while the specific gravity varies greatly with the'colour—the pale urine having a low specific gravity, the higher-coloured a high specific gravity. The