636 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 866. Chemical Tests. perieiiced ; skin diseases, and in cases where the skin was never afiected; m acute rheumatism, acute gout, fever, and in diseases of women and children. Sulphuric Acid (HO.SOg) in Urine.—TAe Physical Characters of the Urine are not, apparently, peculiar, and therefore not distinctive. They would appear to resemble generally those of febrile urine. No deposit of sulphates ever occurs, they being soluble in urine—acid or alkaline—including ammoniacal urine. Microscopical Characters.—Crystals of sulphates may be readily procured by evaporating a small quantity of urine on a slip of glass. The sulphate of potash then ap- pears in the shape of short six- sided prisms, terminated by six- sided pyramids; but frequently the body of the crystal is wanting, thus presenting a triangular-faced dodecahedron. Also in the shape of rosettes and dumb-bells. (Fig. 866). Sulphate of soda appears as decahedral crystals. -By adding a soluble salt of baryta, e.g. chloride of barium, the sulphate of baryta formed is insoluble and conspicuous, thus representing the sulphuric acid present; but not discovered by merely inspecting the urine, in which the sulphates of potash and soda are absolutely soluble, whether the urine be itself acid or alkaline. The readiness with which the insoluble baryta sulphate appears will show the excess of sulphuric acid. The whole quantity of sulphuric acid present may be determined as proposed by Dr. Beuce Jones : about five hundred grains of urine are weighed, and chloride of barium is then added in excess, a few drops of hydrochloric or nitric acid being used to insure the solution of the phosphate of baryta. Heat is applied, and the liquid boiled for a few minutes briskly. The sulphate of baryta is filtered and washed until the clear liquid is perfectly free from chloride of barium. The filter is burnt, and the residue weighed. The amount of sulphate of baryta in a known quantity of urine is thus determined, and the whole amount in twenty-four hours can be calculated. Diagnostic Value.—The interpretation of sulphuric acid in the urine is somewhat parallel to that of phosphoric acid. The quantity of either acid present, absolutely and relatively to the other urinary con- stituents, is the question with reference to the blood-condition. Unlike phosphoric acid, no part of the sulphuric acid is ever deposited in com- bination, i.e. as sulphates of potash and soda; they being the only sulphates—excepting, perhaps, a little lime sulphate—completely solu- ble in any urine, even alkaline urine. But the greater part—about three-fourths of the whole of the phosphoric acid—is in combination with these alkaline bases, and these phosphates are completely soluble in any urine, and never deposited. While, therefore, mere inspection of the urine overlooks the greater portion of the phosphoric acid pre- sent, it discovers none of the sulphuric acid. On the other hand, the remaining small portion of phosphoric acid in combination with the earthy bases, lime and magnesia, being insoluble only in alkaline urine,