228 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGER7. degree of transparency of the retina, and the condition of the hexagonal pigment-cells intervening. The appearance varies also considerably with age. Sometimes, in fair and in old persons, and frequently in disease, the large vessels can be clearly seen in consequence of the transparency or atrophy of the capillary layer of the choroid and deficiency of the pigment. They are much larger than the radiating retinal vessels, closely packed with narrow Unear interspaces, showing dark pigment. The colour of the choroidal vessels changes during life; at an earlier period presenting a bright red, in old age this colour be- comes mixed with a brownish tint. The healthy choroid, seen under the ophthalmoscope, presents a uniform, delicately stippled red hue, which is due to the blood contained in its capillary layer. The tint is more or less deep, in accordance with the amount of pigment in the hexagonal cells on the inner surface, connected with the retiua, and in the irregular cells that are distributed through its substance. The difi^erence is well seen if the eyes of a blue-eyed, fair-haired Scandinavian are com- pared with those of the negro; and allowance must be made for this in the examination of the fundus oculi in disease. (4.) Vitreous humour, aqueous humour, the lens, and its capsule, and the cornea.—These parts of the eye are transparent in the healthy state, and thus admit of clear inspection of the whole of the posterior portion of the interior of the eyeball. Contrasting with the healthy state, as the standard of comparison, the morbid appearances of the same tissues within this portion of the eyeball have already been de- scribed. They remained for centuries unknown, and they never could have been discovered without the aid of the ophthalmoscope. This instrument has, in fact, revolutionized the pathology of deep-seated diseases of the eyeball, and this department of Ophthalmic Surgery. Morbid Ophthalmoscopic Appearances.—The principal morbid appear- ances or conditions, as shown by examination of the interior of the eye with the ophthalmoscope, may be divided into those presented by the refracting media and those presented by the tunics. Amongst the more important of the former are—defective transparency of the aqueous, humour and lens, the recognition of which may be aided by oblique illumination, and which may be due either to inflammatory or hsemor- rhagic effusion, or, in the case of the lens, to the formation of cataract; cloudiness of the vitreous humour, which is commonly the result of choroiditis, attended with the effusion of lymph and blood into this humour. These conditions, if at all well marked, obscure or altogether conceal the fundus. In addition, abnormal conditions in the refraction of the media may, by careful examination, be recognized, and even determined with some approach to accuracy. The optic nerve, at its ocular extremity, may present changes of size, form, and colour peculiar to itself. But very great variations are compatible with good sight. Certain natural changes incident to advancing life are—shrinking and deviation from the circular form, with a darkening of colour approaching to grey. Other changes are morbid, though not necessarily of much consequence in respect to vision. Blade pigment is frequently seen in the form of a thin line around the optic nerve, to the extent of a sixth or a quarter of its cir- cumference. In disease the papilla may become hyperoimic, and of a more rosy colour than natural, which may pass into the condition termed opiic neuntis. In this the outline of the disk and of the vessels traversing it