MORTALITY AFTER AMPUTATION. 103 in immediate succession, may occasionally be required for severe injury, and sometimes for disease, as gangrene. The lower extremities_ are more frequently subject to double amputation, as wben both tbigbs are crushed by the passage of a railway-truck across them; or one leg and one arm may have to be removed; but both arms seldom require amputation. I have had occasion to amputate both lower extremities, below the knees or in the thighs, in some instances; or the lower extremity, in the thigh, and the upper at the shoulder-joint; biit I cannot call to mind having had occasion to amputate both arms. The choice of simultaneous or suhsequent amputation must be determined by the state of shock to the nervous system and the circu- lation. The object of simultaneous amputation is to lessen the repeti- tion and persistence of shock, by making it the shock, as it were, of one operation. But the reserve-power of the system to sustain this sino-le, more severe shock must be judiciously estimated ; and if subse- quCTit amputation be deemed the safer course, the period of interval between the two operations—amputation of one limb, and then the other—should be regulated by the same consideration. In simultaneous double amputation of the lower limbs, Lister's tourniquet for compress- ing the abdominal aorta offers the advantage of allowing the imme- diate succession of the second operation, without waiting to ligature the vessels in the first stump,—a procedure which involves no shock to the system. Results of Amputation.—The mortality after Amputation may be primary,—from shock; or arise from secondary causes ;—principally secondary haemorrhage, exhaustion, tetanus, pyeemia, phlebitis, erysi- pelas, and pneumonia, or other visceral affections, and from affections of the stump, as sloughing, and hospital gangrene. The caMsative conditions which give rise to and induce these im- mediate causes relate : (1) to the constitutional conditions, and age, of the individual; (2): to hygienic conditions; (3) to the operation;—■ as for injury or disease, the kind and extent of either, the period after injury,—representing primary and secondary amputations, the seat of amputation in its proximity to the trunk, and the structure of the bone sawn through, as involving or not the medullary canal. (1.) Individual Conditions.—Constitutional states of health, whether hereditary or acquired, have a most powerful predisposing influence on the mortality after amputation, as- after operations in general. A naturally weak constitution, whether in regard to the nervous system, the quality of the blood, as in the scrofulous diathesis, or the vigour of the circulation, predisposes to the severity of shock contingent on the operation, to passive haamorrhage, or to exhaustion. An acquired state of the general health, of similar character, in consequence of habits of intemperance and a hard life, resulting in a hrohen constitution, has the same unfavourable influence after amputation. Qf organic dis- eases, the one which has perhaps the most fatal tendency is Bright's disease of the kidneys, with albuminuria; a disease whereby the blood becomes drained of its albuminous or reparative plasma, and poisoned by the retention of urea or excrementitious matter; Age affects the result of amputation; the pi'obability of success being in favour of an early period of life, and declining as life advances. In the one case, death occurs more frequently, by the exhaustion conse- quent on acute inflammatory fever, soon uftcr the operation; in the