SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUROERY. tion of both tliese perversions—the former representing that of digestion, the latter tliat of nutrition ; and, furthermore, ever chanmnL' by the non-abstraction or retention of morbid matter, maZ-excretion through the kidneys, skin, liver, and other excreting or secretin? organs- ° » Urmefor Examination.—The diagnostic interpretation of any par- ticular state of urine obviously has reference to its source or origin in the system. The products arising and accruing from mal-assimilation —whether by that of digestion (primarily) or of nutrition (secon- darily)—and which appear in the urine, can be selected for examination by observing a very simple precaution with regard to the sample of urine. Urine secreted at from three to six hours after a meal presents the products of digestion; while that secreted several hours subsequently, when the urine from this source has run off, presents the products of nutrition in its destructive metamorphosis, or the debris of the textures The latter may be called wine of the blood; and if examined in the morning before breakfast, after an interval of fasting from overnight, will be found to contain, unlike the urine of digestion, the waste of the' textures. To make this observation complete, the bladder should be emptied overnight, to preclude any admixture of the urine then in the bladder with that which is secreted during the night. By this precaution, the products from these two sources of urine can be detected and distinguished, in most cases, with approximate certainty. Changes in Urine from Decomposition, after Emission.—Stale Urine. —The changes which take place in the urine after emission, and as the result of decomposition, must not be mistaken for those which repre- sent morbid conditions. Healthy urine may thus undergo departures from its ordinary slightly acid reaction, in two opposite directions ; becoming highly acid, or turning to an alkaline condition. (a.) Hyper-acidity, or Acid Urinary Fermentation (Scherer).—This change consists in the generation of lactic acid and acetic acid ; the mucus of the bladder acting apparently as a ferment on the urinary pig- ment. Like other fermentive processes, therefore, this one is prevented or arrested by alcohol or boiling, or by removing the ferment—vesical mucus—by filtration. The changes consequent on this production of acidity are a precipitation of the amorphous urates, then of uric acid, and often of oxalate of lime. Simultaneously, confer void vegetations— the mould or sugar fungus—are apt to appear. Acidity, increasing for some five or ten days, declines as putrefaction succeeds. An ammo- niacal reaction and odour now supervene, with opacity of the urine from the development of myriads of minute linear particles—vibrios. The amorphous urate deposit has become changed into dark round masses of urate of ammonia, uric acid crystals are replaced by bright prisms of triple phosphate, and amorphous phosphate of lime sinks as an abundant sediment. The growth of confervoid vegetations is arrested with the change of reaction, and they perish as putrefaction is estab- lished. Exceptions to this order of change occur. Urines of low acidity or of low specific gravity do not undergo any marked increase of acidity; but they become ammoniacal in a day or two, or possibly in a few hours. (b.) Alkalescence, in exposed urine, results from the transformation