HiEMORRHOIDS, EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL. • 57^ piles, internal and external. The ordinarily dependent position of the rectum has a co-operative tendency. Predisposing causes—otherwise— comprise various circumstances, more or less affecting the general or the portal circulation; age—adult life, or middle age; sex—males rather than females are liable in adult life; but conversely, after cessa- tion of the catamenial discharge, in later life ; climate—warm and moist, or changeable ; period of the year—spring and autumn; here- ditary predisposition; plethora, and the suppression of other haemor- rhages ; passions, whether violent or depressing ; tight lacing, or the application of bandages to the lower limbs ; sedentary occupations or habits ; sitting on stuffed or on pierced seats ; and, as specially affect- ing the portal circulation ;—habitual constipation, disease of the liver or heart, displacements of the uterus, pregnancy, or the development of other tumours in the abdomen or pelvis, and the straining efforts at micturition, with disease of the prostate, stone in the bladder, or stricture of the urethra; and the habitual excess of venery. JExciting causes are principally of an irritant character, as affecting the intestinal canal, and which induce a determination of blood to the rectum; such are stimulating purgatives or enemata, excess of wine, spiced or other stimulating food, a costive motion, ascarides, diarrhoea; or external irritation, as hard riding on horseback. • Terminations.—The various terminations of hemorrhoidal affections have already been alluded to in describing the external and internal forms of piles. Their issues may be thus enumerated : subsidence, or obliteration,—by coagulation, suppuration, ulceration, sloughing. Treatment. —Remedial, as well as preventive, measures must have reference to the various causes of hEemorrhoids; and the removal of such causes will be suggested in many cases by their nature, whether predisposing or exciting in their action. Constitutional treatment is both medicinal and hygienic. To relieve portal congestion, the bowels must be carefully regulated by mild aperients which shall influence the whole intestinal canal and promote the secretion of bile, and by attention to diet, with daily walking exercise,—excepting during an attack of piles, when the patient will be sure to seek the recumbent posture. The state of the general circulation should, at the same time, be regarded ; in plethoric per- sons, a depletory course of aperients and reduced diet being indicated ; in weak, ansemic persons, a tonic and unirritating dietetic plan of treatment. Thus may be advantageously combined aperients and tonics. A daily dinner pill is a convenient mode of administration; consisting of the watery extract of aloes, compound rhubarb pill, and blue pill, with nux vomica. The watery extract dissolves more readily, and acts before reaching the rectum. Other forms to be recommended are, in particular, a lenitive electuary, consisting of bitartrate of potash and precipitated sulphur, in equal parts, with perhaps a little confection of senna, and sufficient honey or treacle to form an electuary. A tea- spoonful may be taken every night at bed-time. This I have been in the habit of ordering, for many years since, in hsemorrhoidal affections, and have almost invariably found it of great service. Taraxacum in large doses—ten or fifteen grains—and Plummer's pill, are both effica- cious agents for relieving the portal circulation through the secretion of bile; and the mineral acids, especially the nitro-muriatic, seem to have some influence in that way; while as tonics they support the