407 DISEASE OF THE SPINE. XT, inmi • (d) from iliac abscess, connectecl witli disease of the £ boXorformiBg in the fossa; (4) from peric^ecal abscess, on tbe VM side only; (5) from perinepbritic abscess; 6) from empyema, Ig tlfe'pUra and'descending behind tbe diaphragm. The Siosis of ahscess, tbus agreeing an situation but differing widely m Sin will be guided by the association of other symptoms; the pre- sence of other symptoms of spinal disease, or those of one of the dis- eases above named. Thus, when accompanied with weakness and sfitht excurvation of tbe spine, abscess in the groin would indicate thfs disease; whereas, with the present or past association of a chancre or of shortening of the limb on the side afEected such an abscess would either denote its syphilitic origin, or refer probably to disease of the hip-ioint. Compared with other tumours m the groin or iliac fossa, abscess in these situations, differs more or less m its _o^a9^ characters Thus from fatty tumour in the groin, abscess differs m its fluid and fluctuating character and partial subsidence in the recumbent position, as compared with the solid doughy consistence and irreducibility of a fatty mass. Femoral hernia is distinguished chiefly by the perceptible impulse on^ coughing, and gurgling character of the swelling The progress of psoas abscess is mostly unfavourable, ihe resolu- tion of an internal abscess, which has already enlarged so far as to become apparent, is a rare event. Slowly perhaps, but surely increas- ing, the abscess at length bursts. The general health will then inevit- ably undergo a- great change. From a comparatively local state o± disease,-^the patient carrying about a large indolent abscess in his thigh, constitutional disturbance now supervenes, m perhaps a day or two, or a week or two. Hectic fever, with great emaciation, follows, larty'e bed-sores form, and the patient dies exhausted. "other Yarietibs of Spinal Abscess.—The different situations m which spinal abscess may make its appearoMce are speciaUy worthy of notice. ,, i. j. • Psoas abscess emerges from under Poupart s ligament, in the narrow interval between the united bellies of the psoas and iliacus muscles and the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium;_ its progress is arrested by the origins of the sartorius and tensor vagmce femoris muscles, which incline it inwards obliquely across the thigh, in the line of the sartorius. But the abscess may turn abruptly inward or outward, at the groin; or coursing downwards, divide into two por- tions, an inner and an outer ; or burrow under the muscles of the thigh, into the popliteal space, or pass thence on to the calf or ankle. Sometimes, this abscess descends into the subperitoneal tissue of the pelvis, and presents along the rectum at the anus, or emerges from the sciatic notch and passes down by the side of the trochanter. Lumbar abscess is perhaps the next in order of frequency after psoas abscess. The matter passes directly backwards, chiefly by per- forating the quadratus lumborum muscle, and forms a rounded broad flattened abscess. Its boundaries usually are the lowest rib above, the crest of the ilium below, the sacra-lumbalis internally, and the margin of the external abdominal oblique muscle externally. This abscess frequently coexists with psoas abscess. The matter may come from the lumbar 'or dorsal vertebree, having descended from the latter. Dorsal abscess sometimes forms, by the passage of matter directly backwards. Or matter, proceeding from the dorsal vertebras, passes