KESULTS OF HIP-JOINT EXCISION. 43 ino- from no mortality, to 1 in 2 or 3, 1 in 5, 2 in 3, 4 m 5, or even total mortality; thus differing far more extremely than the mortality of knee-joint excision for disease. It can scarcely be doubted that the conditions of disease, both local and constitutional, in the cases selected for excision, have mainly determined this different resulting mortality ; although the mode of performing the operation, and the after-treatment, have also been influential. Moriality compared with Eip-joint Amputation.—In forty-two cases of amputation at the hip-joint for chronic disease, twenty-four re- covered and eighteen died,—a mortality nearly as high as 1 m 2. It will be observed that the total number of cases here referred to is small in proportion to the number of hip-joint excisions for disease. But the whole number of hip-joint amputations hitherto published is only about 126, including the cases of injury and disease. (2.) State of the Limb.—In Dr. Hodges' collection of 111 cases, fifty- six recovered " with more or less useful limbs." In Dr. Grood's collec- tion of 112 cases, of the fifty-two recoveries, forty-two patients could use the limb, and in the remaining ten cases this result was not noted. The forty-two cases are divided as follow :— 19 could walk without support. 9 1 1 1 2 with the help of a stick. two sticks. „ a splint. a crutch, two crutches. 9 the manner of walking is not specified. Fig. 500.* In forty of the fifty-two recoveries, it was specially noted that the limb supported the weight of the body. In one case crutches were necessary for this purpose, and in the remaining eleven cases this particular was not noted. The movements in the new joint were reproduced in twenty-eight cases, and in only one immovable anchylosis was the result. The ultimate period when the patients were seen after operation, varied from three months to five years. Their cure was ascer- tained, in most cases, after two or three years. Of the fifty-two cured, the average period of known permanent result was nineteen months and four days. In my own eight cases, the shortest period of known permanent cure was two and a half years, and the longest ascertained result five years. Atrophy of the shaft of the femur has been known to occur in consequence of excision of the head and great trochanter (Fig. 500); the cancellous tissue having disappeared, and the walls of the shaft being reduced to a shell of compact bone, fracture would be apt to take place in the act of standing or walk- ing. But this contingency after excision is very rare, the bone generally retaining its former strength. The average duration of the period of recovery has not generally been noted in the records of cases. * lioy. Coll. Surgconti Mas., OIU.