201 DISEASES OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. vessels is quite diagnostic of tlie disease; there is some zomilar red- ness in the sclerotic, immediately around the cornea, but no general vascularity of the conjunctiva. Great intolerance of light—photo- phobia—is another characteristic, with violent spasmodic contraction of the orbicular muscle,—closing the eyes forcibly, when any attempt is made to examine them. This symptom is often out of all proportion to the extent of corneal disease; co-existing probably with only one phlyctsenula or ulcer and its leash of vessels, on almost a clean cornea. Lachrymation is profuse, the tears gushing out whenever the lids are the least separated; and there is often some excoriation of their mar- gins. The patient, habituaUy avoiding the light, acquires a sort of frowning and downcast look, and prominent brow, resulting from con- stant action of the corrugator muscles. Add to these appearances, the concomitant marks of scrofula in other parts of the body, and the picture of scrofulous ophthalmia is complete. It chiefly affects children, but may be seen in adults. Treatment.—The general health is more important than the ophthal- mic condition. A regimen—the very reverse probably of tliat which the child has undergone—must be instituted for the improvement of nutrition, and thereby arrest the disintegrative process going on in tbe cornea. Air, exercise, and plain nutritious food; with iron, quinine, and cod-liver oil, as medicinal measures; comprise the elements of the anti-scrofulous course of treatment. The bowels will have to be well regulated, as part of the treatment of the scrofulous constitution, and in consequence of the constipating influence of iron. Further particulars respecting the most eligible preparations of tbe medicinal agents referred to, were noticed in the general treatment of Scrofula. Of topical applications, Pagenstecher's ointment, containing four grains of the Woxide of mercury to one ounce of lard, or a weak astringent lotion of alum, two or three grains to the ounce of water, are perhaps the most efficacious; and warm poppy-head fomentations or the vapour of laudanum will most effectually relieve the distressing intolerance of light. A green shade should be worn to shield the eyes. A small blister may be applied to the temple, and repeated in a \yeek or ten days; but there is little need of derivation. Spermaceti, or dilute citrine ointment, may be smeared along the edges of the lids at bed-time, in the advanced stage of the disease. Of local applications Twt to be used, Mr. Dixon especially denounces the nitrate of silver, and lead lotion whenever an ulcer exists—the carbonate of lead being pre- cipitated and forming an insoluble white deposit in the cicatrix. In some obstinate cases the internal administration of belladonna ■will be found, extremely serviceable, the dose being from one-sixth to one-quarter of a grain of the extract in combination with a little ex- tract of hyoscyamus and grey powder. Occasionally a seton inserted into the temple is effective. In other instances, again, the outer surface of the lids may be painted over three or four times with a bru sh dipped in tincture of iodine, each coat being allowed to dry before another is applied; and in very refractory patients, the application of a douche of cold water to the back of the neck sometimes proves a ready cure. A Nebula or opacity of the cornea, resulting from cicatrization, remains more or less permanently after a prolonged attack of scrofulous ophthalmia; but this result gradually wears out in after years, and at length a faint trace only may indicate the site of the cicatrix.