637 URINAKY DEPOSITS. their precipitation indicates and measures only the alkalescence of the yrine, by fixed alkali, potash or soda, or the volatile alkali ammonia. Nob even this chemical condition of the urine is discoverable through the sulphates, which never appear. Chemical examination of the urine—as already described—by the formation of the sulphate of baryta, which is insoluble, and deposited accordino-ly, will discover the presence of sulphuric acid, and its whole amount. HiPPURiC Acid (HOjCigHN'Os) Ueine.—Physical Characters of Ifrine.—The colour varies—pale, or, it may be, resembles that _ of- febrile urine; the odour is generally like that of whey; specific gravity below rather than above the healthy average—1-020, and in one case (by Bouchardat) it varied from 1-006 to 1-008.' Quantity copious. Reaction, generally, very faintly acid, neutral, or alkaline. A deposit of triple phosphate of magnesia not unfrequently occurs. Microscopical Characters.—Crystals of the oblique rhomboidal prism, and its modifications, are obtained by evaporating two or J^^- ^67. three drops of fresh urine, to which a little hydrochloric acid has been added, on a slip of glass, (Fig. 867.) In stale urine, the hippuric will be found converted into benzoic acid; but its crystals, obtained in like manner, are cha- racteristically different — thin glistening scales. Chemical Tests.—Is"eutralize the acid with lime, concentrate by evaporation; add hydrochloric acid, in a flask, to decompose the hip- purate of lime; introduce ether in large quantity, and cork the flask ; agitate from time to time, pour off the ethereal solution which floats on the surface, wash it with water to remove traces of hydrochloric acid, and then evaporate to obtain the free hippuric acid. If the ether should not separate readily from the mixture, add a very small quantity of alcohol; the water added removes the latter, and any urea in solution, as well as the hydrochloric acid. Lactic Acid (HO,CeH505) in Urine.—Physical Characters of Urine.—Not distinctive. Microscopical Characters.—Crystals of the lactates of zinc, lime, and copper may be obtained, which are characteristic ; the former especially, being thick rhombic tablets in clusters, and those of lime having the appearance of double brushes. Chemical Tests.—Evaporate fresh urine to the thickness of syrup, by means of a low temperature with the water-bath, treat the residue with alcohol holding oxalic acid in solution, treat the alcoholic extract with an excess of hydrated oxide of lead, filter the solution, remove the excess of lead iDy sulphuretted hydrogen, boil the filtrate with oxide of zinc, filter again and evaporate to concentration, and lactate of zinc will appear with its characteristic crystals. Lactate of lime may bo formed by first procuring a solution of lactate of baryta, and then decomposing with sulphate of lime. Or, the lactate of copper from that of lime, by adding sulphate of copper.