SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 82 that the limb 1ms been useless." The result of operation was recovery with a useful limb. In a series of thirty-nine cases of knee-joint ex- cision by Professor Humphry, recorded in the "Transactions" of this Society (18G9), in no instance was the "nature of the disease," as described, in any way connected with rheumatism. A similar exclusion prevails in twelve cases by Mr. H. Lee, as recorded in the same volume of " Transactions ; " and also in tbe histories of thirty-one cases collected by Mr. Butcher, and in a second collection of fifty-one cases (" Opera- tive and Conservative Surgery"). One case only of excision of tbe knee-joint has come to my know- ledge, wherein the operation has been performed for chronic rheumatic arthritis; it was in the practice of Mr. Curling at the London Hospital, and the result was successful {Lancet, 1869). Secondly, the age of the patient in my case is, I believe, the most advanced period of life at which excision of the knee-joint has hitherto been performed. In Mr. Curling's case the patient's age was only twenty-three years. From the various series of cases already referred to, I have gathered the most advanced ages at which the operation has been performed for other conditions of disease and the results. It appears that excision of the knee-joint for disease, as performed in 13 cases between the ages of thirty-two and forty-seven years, has yielded 7 successful results; and that between the ages of forty-one and forty-seven years there were 11 cases, with 6 successful results. If then my own case, at the most advanced period of life, be superadded, we have a total of 12 cases, with 7 successful results, between the ages of forty-one and fifty-three years. With regard to the question of mortality: in one of the unsuccessful cases of excision, amputation afterwards was followed by recovery, thus making a gross total of 8 cases out of 12, or an average of 2 recoveries in every 3 cases; and if the accidental deaths by embolism on the eightieth day, and phthisis, be omitted, the recoveries rise to 8 in 10 cases, or 4 out of 5—a pro- portion fully equal to the successful results of amputation of the thigh for chronic disease of the knee-joint; with the advantage in favour of excision, that the limb is preserved. Looking at all these cases of knee-joint excision for disease, two conclusions may be drawn : the one as to the extreme rarity of this operation for chronic rheumatic arthritis; the other, that the operation may possibly be performed with safety and advantage at a much later period of life than it has hitherto been commonly practised. The result of the case I have brought forward would more especially sug- gest an occasional extension of the operation, both in respect to the kind of disease and the period of life which may be appropriate, thus embracing a larger class of cases beyond those hitherto recognized as suitable for excision. Hip-joint.—The natural cure of hip-joint disease has not yet been investigated in a series of cases, sufficiently accurate and comprehen- sive, for comparison with the results of excision. Such an inquiry should have regard, (1) to the joint, in respect to five essential par- ticulars—the appropriate nature of the anchylosis, and the proper position of the limb for its functional use, the average duration of the period of recovery, and the permanent character of that issue, with its avcrfige frequency; (2) the liability to life or the mortality of the natural cure. It would be from these points of view, as to limb and