"^26 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUBGBRY. and tWs is best accomplished, as Desault recommends, by introducino-- lint n r " ^ '"'^^-^ -ith small piece of Imt, so as to compress the vessel effectually on drawing the stuffed hZ outwards. According to the experience of Begin, Velpeau, and othe? burgeons, there is no risk of thus inducing inflammation of the pleura or lung; and certainly, in any case, this danger should be encountered m order to arrest otherwise uncontrollable hsemorrhatre. For the mor tality consequent on wound of the intercostal arteries is very high • in the American War, eleven out of fifteen cases had a fatal result, or 73-4 per cent. The internal m.ammanj artery, which is rarely wounded must be ligatured or twisted, the external wound being enlarged when neces- sary for this purpose. The costal cartilage overlaying the artery may be dmded m order to reach the vessel. Blood extravasated into the anterior mediastinum or the pleura, can be partly withdrawn through a iemale catheter or by the application of a cupping-glass. Pulmonary hemorrhage is the chief source of danger; but the treatment is consti- tutional, and will be specially noticed after completing the local management of the wound. (2.) Foreign bodies are sometimes dis- covered, on carefully examining the wound by gently introducing the finger. But the Surgeon must not forget that although, when the chest IS perforated, one of two balls, or a portion of a split ball, may have lodged; yet, with only one opening in the chest, the ball may have fallen out, or have been withdrawn in a pouch of clothing. Ac- cording to a well-known story, an officer whose chest was being examined at length exclaimed, " What are you doing ? " " Searching for the ball," was the answer. " I wish," said he, " you had told me sooner, for you will find it in my waistcoat-pocket." A probe should never be used, lest a simple integumental wound be thus accidentally converted into a penetrating wound of the chest. Any foreign body within reach that can be fairly extracted, or by enlarging the wound, must be removed; such as clots of blood, a splintered bit of rib, or a bullet. If not accessible, the substance had better be left to find its way out; or, remaining within the chest, it may lead to the formation of abscess and be coughed up with purulent expectoration, or perchance be expelled through a fistulous channel in the wall of the thorax ; or, the body may become encysted in the lung and quiescent, thus lodging in the chest for years. A bullet has been known to continue rolling loosely about in the pleural cavity. (3.) The closure of a penetrating wound of the chest should be determined by two considerations: the probability of a foreign body not remaining in the wound, and by whether the lung be wounded. A small puncture, without the escape of air and blood during expiration, and unaccompanied with bloody expectoration, is a condition which permits of the wound being closed. This can be done by means of the ordinary appliances ; one or two sutures perhaps, a pad of lint, and strips of plaster. A rib-bandage also may be used to restrict the breathing to abdominal respiration. A wound of the chest which involves the lung, as shown by air and blood escaping through the wound from the injured lung, is a condition wherein the external aperture should not be closed. Water-dressing may be applied, but the patient should be placed on the wounded side, in order that the air and blood may be freely discharged. Pneumo- thorax and the tendency to emphysema, and perhaps hjeraothorax, will probably thus be prevented. Tlus general rule, as to the position of