53 EXCISION OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. diseased conditions of the ankle-joint for which excision is appropriate, would appear to be :— (1.) When disease, commencing in the synovial membrane, haa ex- tended to and destroyed the articular surfaces of the tibia and fibula, that of the astragalus, or of both opposed surfaces. (2.) When disease, having the same articular consequences, com- menced in the cancellated tissue, either of the long bones or of the astragalus, provided it be limited to part of this bone,—its upper articular portion. (3.) Whether the disease originated in the synovial membrane or in the articular cancellated tissue, resulting in destruction of the carti- lages, without anchylosis, excision should be resorted to lefore- the supervention of constitutional exhaustion. Operation.—Hancock's description of excision of the Ankle-joint, as first performed by him in England (1851), is as follows:—"I com- menced an incision behind, and about two inches above, the external malleolus, carrying it forwards beneath that process across the- front of the joint, and terminating about two inches above and behind the inner malleo- lus. (Fig. 507.) This incision included the skin, without implicating the tendons or their sheaths. The flap thus formed was dissected up, and the peronei tendons were detached from the groove behind the fibula and cut through, as were the external lateral ligaments close to the fibula, with a pair of bone-nippers. I next divided the fibula about an inch and a half above its inferior extremity, and cutting through the inferior tibio-fibular ligaments, detached the external malleolus. Turning the leg on to its outer side, I cut through the internal lateral ligament, carefully keeping the knife close to the end of the tibia, to avoid the posterior tibial artery. The tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor communis were then detached from the groove behind the internal malleolus, and taking the foot in both hands, Mr. Avery hold- ing the leg, I dislocated the foot outwards, thus. bringing the end of the tibia, with the internal malleolus, prominently through the wound. These were removed by a common amputating saw, applied half an inch above the horizontal articulating surface of the tibia, the soft parts being protected by a spatula; the upper articulating surface of the astragalus was also removed by a metacarpal saw, held horizon- tally. The foot was then restored to its proper position, the cut sur- face of the astragalus being adapted to the cut surface of the tibia; and the wound having been closed by sutures, except on the outer side, left open for the free escape of discharge, the leg was placed on ah external splint, having an opening corresponding to the wound." The parts divided by this operation were—the skin, peronei tendons, internal and external, lateral and inferior tibio-fibular ligaments, and the articular surfaces of the bones. In subsequent operations, the tendons were preserved entire. In no instance have the tibial arteries, anterior or posterior, been wounded, and never has it been necessary to. apply a single ligature. * After Hancock.