SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 1 skin stretching over the tumour, usually accommodates itself to ncreasmg distension, without ulceration ensuing; sometimes, however the slan becomes involved, and a fungoid growth protrudes externaUy or a peculiar ulcer is presented, the edges of which are thin and lie flS Swent iwt"'' " ^""^ ""'"'^ '""^^'^^ Gauses.~No age is exempt from adenocele; it may commence about puberty, or subsequently, and most frequently at the stage of passive maturity of the breast, between twenty and thirty years of a^^e Sinde women seem most liable ; and of married women, it occurs more often m those who have borne children, but rarely during pregnancy -lixternal injury, as a blow, is now and then, apparently, the exciting cause oE adenocele. Course and Terminations.—Adenocele grows with a varying rate of progress; the originally solid and fibrous form enlarges slowly the cystic form increases more rapidly; and either variety may attain a large or even enormous size, and a weight of many pounds. The general health remains unimpaired, excepting when a funo-oid growth reduces it by continued discharge. Sometimes the tumour remains stationary, and occasionally it disappears. After removal, it seldom reappears; the fibrous variety very rarely, the cystic variety less un- . frequently; and youth confers a decided immunity to recurrence no return having ever been met with, by Mr. Birkett, when the tumour had originated before thirty years of age. Recurring adenocele may a ternate from fibrous to cystic, and a third tumour return in the fibrous form of growth. The diagnosis of adenoid tumour from other tumours of the breast, must be determined by reference to the whole of its pathology; in respect to the characters of the tumour, its causes, course, and'termi- nations. The points of distinction between adenoid and cancer of the breast are most important. They are mainly the absence generally of any implication of surrounding parts by infiltration ; as of the skin, with retraction of the nipple, and ulceration of the integument over the tumour, and never any enlargement of the axillary or other neighbouring lymphatic glands ; the general health also remaining unaffected. Cystic adenocele more apparently resembles cystic cancer, and particularly when the growth has advanced to the condition it occasionally assumes, that of a protruding fungoid mass. But here, again, the absence of any contamination of the neighbouring lym- phatics, and of constitutional cachexia, are the turning-points of distinction. Treatment.—Excision of the tumour is the only certain cure. An incision is made over the lump, laying open its capsule, and the growth ,is then easily enucleated with the handle of the scalpel; thus sparing the mammary gland, and possibly without cutting it. The removal of a large tumour may necessitate excision of the gland as well. Not only IS recurrence very uncommon, but the result of operation in relation to life is generally successful. After fifty operations, Velpeau lost not one patient. Two deaths occurred in Lebert's experience, one from pneumonia, the other from erysipelas,—an accidental cause. Ab- sorjotion of an adenoid tumour is a rare event in nature, and but little under the influence of any known local applications or general treat- ment. The preparations of iodine and of bromine, in" the form of