SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. along the curve of the finger, or on a curved director, or insinuatin.^ Its point between these ligamentous constricting bands and the neck ot the tumour, just to within the crural ring, this double stricture can be overcome by dividing it iqmards and inwards—on thus obliquely directing the cutting portion of the knife. It yields with the usual creaking sound and sensation; and a very limited extent of incision will prove sufficient. Having divided one or both strictures, the Jiernia may not unfrequently be reduced, without opening the sac, by gently compressing its contents. Sometimes, however, another source of stricture still exists, in the form of thickened bands of fascia pro- pria, situated about half an inch below the crural ring, across the neck of the sac, constricting and indenting it. These should be di- vided, as Luke recommends, by insinuating the nail of the finger under them from above, and carrying the point of a probed bistoury alono- the nail, with its blunt edge towards the sac. ° But if this fails to hberate the hernia, or if the symptoms of strangulation have become thoroughly established, even to stercoraceous vomitmg, and the visceral protrusion may have suffered also by pro- longed taxis, it will then be necessary to proceed to lay ope7i the sac. The fascia propria must first be divided carefully on a director. When thin and membranous, the sac is at once exposed; when thick and fatty, and perhaps cystic, this must be done cautiously, by making more than one layer with the knife and director, lest the sac be inad° vertently opened and its visceral contents be wounded. On the other hand, it must be observed not to make a sac of one of the artificial layers of the fascia propria, and then, mistaking the true sac for intestine, not to open the hernial sac at all. This latter sac having been fairly exposed, it is opened in the usual manner; a small button- hole incision being made by means of the forceps and knife used flatwise, and the aperture enlarged on the broad director, upwards and downwards; the seat of stricture is then sought for, commonly at the thickened peritoneal mouth of the sac, and this must be divided upwards and inwards, as being the direction of least risk to any vessel adjacent to the crural ring. Sometimes, the ligamentous or fibrous structures external to the neck of the sac having been divided, the mouth of the sac can be sufficiently dilated by gently introducing the point of the finger, without any further use of the hernia-knife. The contents of the sac and any adhesions are then dealt with according to the general rules already given. An entero-epiplocele is usually found; and the omentum lies mostly in front, enclosing and concealing a knuckle of intestine. Hemorrhage, perhaps considerable and persistent, is liable to occur in dividing the stricture at the crural ring. This accident is peculiar to femoral hernia, and it has led to a fatal result occasionally, in addition to the ordinary hernial contingency of peritonitis. I have lost one case, owing to the continuance of hfemorrhage internally ; and Guthrie states that some of the best Surgeons have lost patients by hemorrhage after the operation for femoral hernia. It proceeds from the obturator artery, that vessel having its unusual origin from the epigastric artery, and the more unusual course of then arching over the ring and descending on the inner side at the base of Gimbernat's ligament. This vessel will then be across the knife in dividing the stricture upwards and inwards. Sometimes, the small pubic