SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. fTstixIS for^iZ'^'^"'"''^ compression, or by the attempt to establish otn^J^;. ^^'^ ''''''''''^ (3) Extirpation, or .inill"^ is available only in Cystic tumour; where the cyst is 't, '^f'^r^'l''" ^'^"^"^ S'^^^^y predominates ZJT\ 1 ' temporary relief, but resecretion of the fluid rapidly takes place; and this entails a drain upon the patient's strength greater than would have occurred from continued secretion in a full cyst; It necessitates also a second tapping, and even many subsequent operations, each at progressively shorter intervals. The duration of iite, under repeated tappings, is probably shorter than when the tumour IS lett to itself; death usually taking place in three or four years after the hrst operation. The immediate risk from tapping is not incon- siderable; rapid exhaustion, or fatal peritonitis, sometimes follows and acute inflammation of the cyst occasionally. Puncture of an adherent coil of mtestme must not be overlooked as a possible contingency ihe operation is performed as for ascites, the point selected for punc- ture being one of absolute dulness ; and this is usually in the middle line, a little below the umbilicus. Some other part of the abdominal wall may be more eligible, as in the linea semilunaris. A multilocular tumour can perhaps be partly emptied by introducing the trocar at different points, into its most prominent loculi. (2.) Obliteration of the Cyst.—Injection of the tincture of iodine is an appropriate mode of effecting obliteration of an ovarian cystic tumour, when the cyst is single. But, in such case, the diagnosis from ascites must be very carefully ascertained; as the danger consequent on injecting the peritoneal cavity—the production of peritonitis—would be much greater than if ovariotomy were attempted by an error of diagnosis. Acute cyst-inflammation is another source of danger. If the tumour be multilocular, inflammation is very apt to follow in the uninjected cysts, in consequence of the adjoining source of irritation. Lastly, secondary cysts, which had been suppressed by the pressure and growth of a larger, predominating cyst, may subsequently become developed; thus converting an apparently unilocular cyst into a mul- tilocular tumour, and rendering the operation abortive as a radical cure. The operation is performed by first tapping the tumour in the ordinary manner, and introducing a flexible catheter through the cannula to draw off as much fluid as can be obtained; then from four to six ounces of the tincture should be injected and retained, or after about a quarter of an hour allowed to drain out. A diluted solution of the iodine might be preferred, as was recommended by Boinet, who originated this method of treatment; but there will always be a certain quantity of fluid remaining in the cyst, sufiicient to dilute the tincture. Inflammation of the cyst, with the "effusion of plastic matter into the interior, soon follows the injection; and by this moderate degree of the process, a cure has been effected. But this plan is involved in so much uncertainty that it has been almost entirely abandoned. 4/'ie7--treatment must be directed to regulate the inflammation ; stimulants or oijiates being given according to the symptoms. Sometimes the constitutional disturbance is considerable; a severe febrile paroxysm supervening with intense iodism, and impregnation of the urine and saliva with iodine. Compression, by means of a starch bandage applied to the abdomen,