ORGANIC STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 775 two blades, which can be separated to such an extent as to rupture the stricture. Distension or rupture, as thus effected, involves more than the constricted part of the canal,—a disadvantage compared with Thompson's instrument; while—relative to Holt's dilator—Thebaud's instrument has the disadvantage of being too large-pointed for tight strictures; but the special advantage of carrying distension to any known degree is supplied by the index near the handle. Strictures of very tight character may be penetrated by a filiform bougie guide, adapted to the end of any such instruments; an addition originated by Van Buren, and completed by Charriere. Caustics.—Cauterization, in the treatment of stricture, has been practised with two objects in view: the deadening of sensibility or spasm, and the destruction of induration; in both ways permitting subsequent recourse to dilation. For the former purpose, cauterization may be of some use. It can be effected by the introduction of an in- strument armed with caustic, such as nitrate of silver or potassa fusa, which is carried down to, and allowed to rest against the strictui-e for two or three minutes. A gleety discharge is thus established, and the caustic may be reapplied every two or three days until a catheter can be passed, and gradual dilatation made to complete the cure. This method of treatment was formerly in vogue, and still, I believe, has one or two advocates in this country, principally the late Mr. Wade, and less urged by IVEr. H. Smith; but the experience of the best Surgeons, both here and in France, has condemned it, as being both perilous and extremely uncertain in its results. Stigmatized by Mr. Liston as " most atrocious," and discountenanced more recently by Nelaton, the cure of stricture can always be accomplished more safely, and^ with greater probability of non-recurrence, not to mention the liability of making a false passage. Cauterization has, therefore, now fallen into general disuse. Division of the Stricture.—Section of the urethra may be re- sorted to in tight stricture, with considerable induration, forming a hard and large nodule, unfitted for rupture; and accompanied perhaps with much sensitiveness and irritability, or contractility and resiliency—conditions which are also unfitted for gradual dilatation. The incision is made, either from within the urethra, or from without, and usually in the perineum. (1.) Internal Urethrotomy.—Division of the stricture from within the urethra has been practised for above a century. Allies of France (1755), Physick of Philadelphia (1795), John Bell (1806), and his brother Charles Bell (1807), M'Ghie (1823), and Stafford (1827), have severally advocated this method of treatment. It has been practised extensively in France, especially by Civiale; and occasionally by modern Surgeons in America and in this country. The operation may be performed in two ways :—incision from before hacJcwards—section being made by pushing downwards a lancet-like blade, generally with a slender conductor in advance of it, into the obstruction to be divided; incision from behind forwards,—a, portion of the instrument containing a small blade, sheathed, is first carried down through the stricture, which is then divided by protruding- the blade downwards and withdrawing it, in the floor of the urethra, throuo-h the whole of the contracted portion, with a little of the sound urethra m front and behind, but taking care not to incise too freely in depth.