SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. pathological condition of the invaginated portion of intestine, with the probability of sloughing and separation of that portion of the bowel Moreover, the following self-curative results are interesting —In 24 cases of intussusception, at various periods of life, from two months and a half to fifty years of age, 13 of the patients died unrelieved some as early as three days, some as late as forty days, from the com-' mencement of the symptoms. But in the other 11 cases, the invagi- nated pieces of intestine sloughed and were passed by stool. Of these cases, only 2 died soon after the passage of the slough ; the remaining J entirely recovered. The patients who recovered were ill for periods varying from five to thirty days, and their ages ranged from six to fifty years. Any portion of the intestinal canal may thus undergo spontaneous cure. In 35 cases collected by Dr. W. Thomson, the small intestine was affected in 22 cases ; the large, or with the small, m 13. And the length of the invaginated portion of bowel evacuated may have been considerable, varying from six inches to three feet; while in still more rare instances of recovery, a portion of the colon' twenty-nine inches in length, was passed by a child, six years old,—this case being reported by Dr. Dawson, of Ohio ; and after the passage of even five feet of intestine, favourable results have occurred in the experience of Dr. Van Buren and Dr. Peaslee. An operation for the relief of intestinal obstruction will vary in its situation and design according to the seat and nature of the obstruc- tion. In respect to the small intestine, the abdominal wall, and thence the peritoneum, must necessarily be opened, in order to reach the seat of obstruction. Thus may be relieved; obstruction of a hernial character, whether depending on a constricting band, or the gripe of a fissure in the omentum or mesentery through which a coil of intestine has slipped; or a volvulus of the bowel may be untwisted. Least successful will be the operation in the following conditions:—when peritonitis has supervened from prolonged strangulation ; in the ob- struction from foreign bodies or calculi lodged in the bowel; and in stricture of any portion of the small intestine. Oastrotomy or the Ahdominal Section may be performed in the following manner. The arrangements resemble those of ovariotomy in the female. The temperature of the apartment should be raised to about 70° F., and flannels wrung out of warm water be at hand to protect the bowels ; the bladder emptied, and chloroform administered. Then , the Surgeon, standing conveniently between the legs of the patient recumbent, makes an incision, usually in the middle line below the umbilicus; or elsewhere, over the seat of obstruction, when that can be diagnosed by an intumescent tumour. Proceeding cautiously towards the peritoneum, this membrane is carefully slit up by a probe- pointed bistoury guarded by the forefinger beneath. Any protruding coils of inflated intestine are then to be gently drawn aside by an assistant using the wet flannels, while the operator searches carefully upwards along the empty coils of the bowel until he arrives at the source of obstruction. A constricting band may then be divided cautiously with the scalpel or broken through with the finger ; a portion of intestine may be withdrawn from a fissure in the omentum or mesentery, or a twisted portion of bowel may be untwisted. In the event of nob thus releasing the bowel in any case, as a last resource,