EXCISION OF THE WRIST. 75 wooden splint, witH an obtuse-angled piece of tliick cork cemented to the palmar portion by means of fused gutta-percha and with a bar ot cork stuck on transversely to the under surface of the sphnt so as to proiect at the side. Lister's splint, thus constructed (Fig. 519), pos- sesses certain important advantages. The hand lies semiflexed, which Fig. 519. is its natural position of repose ; the fingers are midway between flexion and extension, into which it is necessary to bring them by daily passive movements; while a certain range of voluntary motion is also permitted, which the patient should be encouraged to exercise fre- quently during the day. Then again, this position is best adapted for allowing the extensors of the carpus to acquire fresh attachments; and, the palm resting on the sloping surface of cork, the splint cannot slip'upwards ; nor downwards, secured by turns of the bandage around the transverse bar of cork. This appendage to the splint specially keeps the thumb in position; it is thus allowed to fall below the level of the rest of the hand, so as to be most serviceable for opposition to the fino-ers; while the tendency to adduction of the thumb towards the index finger is prevented by a thick pad of lint placed in the angle between the two, under the turns of bandage around the transverse bar of cork. The palmar piece of cork should be hollowed out to receive the ball of the thumb. After-treatment.—Two principles must be kept in view, in order to obtain a successful result. Firstly, to procure firm anchylosis of the wrist, by retaining it in a fixed position during the process of consoli- dation—for a period averaging six or seven weeks. Secondly, at the same time, to maintain the flexibility of the fingers and thumb daily; commencing flexion on the second day, whether inflammation has subsided or not. In executing these movements, each finger should be both flexed and extended to the full degree, while the connected metacarpal bone is held quite steady, so as not to disturb the wrist. Both these principles are provided for by the peculiar construction of the splint, and Professor Lister attaches more importance to their fulfilment, in the after-treatment, than to his method of operation. Pronation and supination, also, must not long be neglected; and as the new wrist acquires firmness, flexion and extension, abduction and adduction should be occasionally encouraged. The period during which passive motion should be practised may be resolved into this rule; it must continue until the disposition to contract adhesions finally ceases—a few weeks or a few months. "When the patient leaves his bed, and carries his arm in a sling, the weight of the hand will make it gradually droop to the ulnar side ; a tendency which is best counteracted by affixing two ledges of gutta-