SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 148 out any interference. So also did a second sucli blood-tumour, after a fall on the forehead, in the same child. Injuries of the Cranium.—Contusion op the Bone.—Cranial con- tusion is produced by, and accompanied with, a wound or contusion of the scalp ; but it is unconnected with fracture, as being simply a contusion of the bone. It may arise from a fall or blow, of no apparent severity; or from slight gunshot injury, as the brushing abrasion of a spent bullet, striking the head obliquely, and removing perhaps only the hair. Yet the consequences may be very serious or fatal. Consequences.—(1.) It may lead to caries or necrosis of the contused bone, aff ectino- one or both tables of the osseous substance ; and limited to the seat of injury, or spreading far and wide, even over the whole vault of the skull. In a case related by Saviard, after a blow on the head, the whole skull-cap came away. _ _ • • i The treatment for superficial caries, or for exfoliation, is simply that which relates to a piece of dead bone in any other situation. The supervention of brain-symptoms may be prevented or counteracted by the treatment appropriate for Traumatic Inflammation of the Mem- branes of the Brain. _ . •■ . (2.) Chronic ostitis may follow cranial contusion, without any cranial necrosis, but resulting in a thickened state of the bone, or an irregular modification of its internal surface. Hence, pressure upon, and irritation of, the brain induce epileptic attacks or maniacal seizures; especially whenever, from any exciting cause, the chrome inflammatory action is aggravated. , ,f Tenderness, and perhaps slight thickening of the scalp, both ot a persistent character, over the seat of contusion, are the only external signs of this chronic inflammation of the cranium. _ _ _ Treatment consists in topical depletion by leeches, or incisions through the scalp over the affected portion of bone; and, at a later period the repeated use of blisters, with a course of iodide of potassium and tonics. Trephining the bone has been resorted to for removal ot the source of cerebral irritation; but the results of this operation have been too seldom successful to justify the risk of a fatal issue, except m extreme cases. . , . j. (3) Inflammation of the diploe is another consequence to be dreaded: such inflammation extending probably inwards to the dura mater, with detachment of that membrane and suppuration between it and the cranium. Thus far the mischief is circumscribed ; but the inflammation deepening to the arachnoid membrane, it spreads over the parietal layer, and soon involves the visceral layer ; thence the pia mater and corresponding surface of the brain. All the membranes and the brain are affected. The pericranium or periosteum separates, and suppuration takes place under the scalp, giving rise to a boggy swell- ino-, circumscribed, flattened, or prominent-the " puffy tumour of Pott; or the wound, if there be one, loses its healthy florid appearance its edges becoming everted, and the discharge discoloured thin and ffleetv while the pericranium separates from the bone or the latter, it denuded, becomes dry and yellow-white, or discoloured In removmg the dressing from such a sole, the lint sticks to the surface, instead of coming off, as from a suppurating sore. The symptoms are insidious and supervene at a variable period,