URINARY CALCULI. G65 Diagnosis of Urinary Galcioli.—In relation to treatment—wlietlier medical or surgical, and especially the former—the sjjecies of urinary calculus is a question of great importance. The elements which, singly or collectively, determine the diagnosis are—examination of gravel or small portions of concretion passed in the urine, the accompanying condition of urine, the constitutional condition or diathesis, and the other predisposing causes already enumerated. If all this knowledge should fail to establish any positive conclasion as to the nature of a calculus, it may at least have a negative value, by indicating the species to which the stone is not allied, and thus indirectly guide to an appropriate treatment. The examination of gravel, or small portions of concretion, supplies the most exact knowledge relative to the species of calculus, co- existing. The condition of urine passed at the same period aifords the next most reliable ground for diagnosis. Urinary reaction and deposits are here the indications to be observed. The reaction may be acid or alkaline; and the latter from fixed alkali, or from volatile alkali—carbonate of ammonia. (1.) Acid reaction will indicate that the calculus is either uric acid or oxalate of Hme, or a combination of both species of concretion. A deposit of one or other of these constituents can alone determine the particular species of calculus. Not unfrequently, either deposit alter- nates with the other, and then a combination of both may be inferred. The presence of either deposit in the urine for any considerable period would indicate that the external crust of the stone is of that kind ; but this will fail to indicate the composition of the deeper substance. Renal calculi contrast with vesical calculi, in being much more simple,—consisting, usually of only one species; while the vesical are usually compound,—consisting of two or more species. This com- plexity increases often according to the period duiung which the calculus has remained in the bladder. Consequently, if the calculus originated in the kidney, but has descended into the bladder at a recent date, it will probably be simple; and while an acid reaction might indicate either uric acid or oxalate of lime, the deposit will probably determine which species constitutes, in this case, the entire calculus. The relatively greater/Vegwenc?/ of uric acid compared with oxalate of lime calculus, is a consideration which will aid and corroborate an otherwise doubtful diagnosis; but such evidence is of much less value than that supplied by examination of the urine. Constitutional predisposition is a more important element in our calculation of probability. Thus, the gouty diathesis will more pro- bably be associated with uric acid than with oxalate of lime calculus. (2.) Alkaline urine has a widely different significance, according to the nature of the alkali. Fixed alkali is associated with phosphate of lime, or with carbonate of lime. Both these species of calculi are rare and the latter extremely so. Volatile alkali—carbonate of ammonia is always associated with a calculus—when present—the crust, at least ot which consists of phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, with phos- phate of hme, forming the mixed phosphates or fusible calculus. But .the composition of the nucleus and body of the calculus is not indi- cated and the thickness of the crust will depend on the greater or less degree of ammoniacal reaction and odour; this, again, will be