415 LATERAL CURVATUEE OF THE SPINE. exaggerated by most writers. Thus, a limited importance may be attached to shortening of one leg; whether as a congenital defect, by dislocation, or from imperfect development; or as resulting from disease of the hip-joint, or paralysis, or from the use of a wooden-leg. Diseases of the chest, followed by contraction of the thoracic parietes, often give rise to lateral curvature, as after tapping for empyema; and the same effect may be produced by thoracic and abdominal tumours. But these accredited causes do not explain certain essential characters of this deformity; to wit, the great frequency of dorsal curvature to the right, and the production of rotation. Assuming that the right arm is heavier than the left, and the right lung more capacious than the left, Mr. Barwell attributes rotation to the action of the serratus muscle of this side ; which muscle being more weighted and in stronger respiratory action than its opponent, acts upon the ribs as powerful levers, and thus rotates the vertebra to the left side. In this etiology, the sequence of events, as usually described by authorities on lateral curvature, is reversed. It is generally stated that the spine first curves laterally, then rotates, and in this latter movement, by dragging with it the ribs, deforms the chest. The rotation-theory afiBrms that the ribs are primarily drawn backwards, and acting as levers, twist the vertebraa to the left, curving the dorsal spine to the right. Both these views cannot be true, but both are entitled to consideratipn. Consequences.—For some time, the spine retains its flexibility; so that when the cause of curvature is removed, the column regains its natural direction. Consequently, in the recumbent position, recovery temporarily takes place. At a more advanced period of the disease,— after the lapse of some years,'—the vertebrae become fixed; and then the deformity is persistent in whatever position the patient be placed. Yet recovery can be slowly effected by proper treatment. The general health also is now more visibly impaired; emaciation and pallidity having increased with continued declining nutrition, and there being some symptoms resulting from compression of the thoracic and abdominal organs. Treatment.—Any cause in operation must be removed. Thus, any one-sided posture, connected with occupation or habit, must be corrected; and the patient allowed free motion of the body, alter- nated with rest in the recumbent position. The correction of posture, in the produc- tion of lateral spinal curvature, can be brought about by an antagonistic position. This may be accomplished by using the sloping seat. (Fig. 747.) By uplifting the left side of the pelvis, when depressed by lateral curvature and a lumbar arc formed on the left side, the spine S.lT.P^^^^'i^' the law_of equilibrium, to curve in the opposite Fig. 747. i ' -J —■ — —v^urvB in Tiue o airection,—to the right, for maintaining balance; and thus a cor-