673 STONE IN THE BLADDER, Hence, caution and gentle- scarcely audible to tlie operator. The grating rough sensation and slight sound of a fasciculated bladder, overlaid with phosphate deposit (Fig. 874), must not be mistaken for a distinct calculus. A second calculus, or the presence of several calcali (as in figure), can sometimes be distinctly detected by the sound, a stone perhaps lying on Fig. 874.* each side of the bladder; the introduc- tion of a lithotrite will, however, surely determine the question, when one stone is seized and another struck with the instrument still holding the first in its grasp. Sir H. Thompson has devised and employed a modiScation of the lithotrite, which acts as a sound, cathe- ter, and measurer. It goes by the name of Weiss's catheter-scoop, with stop-cock. Sounding is an operation not wholly free from danger. It may induce cystitis and peritonitis, tei'mi- uating fatally. Sanson, Civiale, Crosse, and others have recorded such fatal cases ness should be observed in the practice of this familiar procedure With all possible light-handedness in sounding, severe cystitis is some- times provoked; as happened in a case where Dr. Gross had sounded a young mau who was, however, the subject of stone of twenty years' duration, and accompanied with chronic cystitis. All the symptoms of stoue are more or less pronounced, according to the size and shape of the calculus, as a foreign body in the bladder. A large-sized stone is usually attended with more marked symptoms; and an irregular, rough stone is productive of the most severe symp- toms. The kind of calculus has some influence, but chiefly as depend- ing on the constitutional diathesis. The quality of the urine will also affect the severity of certain symptoms; a highly acid or alkaline state of the urine having a stimulant action on the interior of the bladder, and thus aggravating the pain and vesical irritability. Lastly, the con- dition of the bladder itself, when inflamed, whether by irritation of the calculus or its continuance, has a similar influence on these symptoms. Phosphatic calculi imply a previously disorganized state of the bladder or chronic cystitis, and thence the accompanyiug local and constitu- tional disturbance of this state. On the other hand, sounding may fail to discover the presence of stoue, and such instances have occurred in the hands of the most experienced Surgeons; as Cheselden, Pelletan, and Dupuytren. In some cases, large calculi, of the size even of a hen's or duck's egg, nearly filling the bladder, have escaped the most careful and minute examination; instances of which are related by Verzascha, Benevoli, Duretus, Riverius, Marcellus Donatus, Chesneau, * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus,, 2024. Bladder, showing the mucous coat beset with numerous white calculi, of small size, an angular, irregular shape, aud adhe.revf. '/"l^. Repressions on the surface of the membrane. At the lower and back part 7 the bladder these calculi are most closely aggregated, and, with intermediate fleposit form an incrustation. The prostatic urethra is also the scat of several such adherent cMi. Others lay loose within tlie cavity of the bladder. From' an old man who had symptoms of stone for a long time before death. (R. Liston ) 2 X VOL. 11.