752 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. charge usually disappears immediately upon the development of the constitutional disease. Scrofulous urethritis is, however, apparently a local manifestation of the general disease, just as there may be a dis- charge from the nasal mucous membrane. Distant irritation, as gastric derangement, worms in the intestines, or teething, may also excite a urethral discharge; but this is of a passive character. Local causes of various kinds are not unfrequently the occasions of urethral irritation ; as the passage of instruments, sexual intercourse or excitement, th(; introduction of vaginal discharges,—such as the menstrual fluid, or leucorrhceal matter. Here, again, the discliarge is usually passive. All these causes should be taken into consideration before pro- nouncing a professional judgment as to the particular cause in any case of urethritis. Thus, in a young child, the existence of vaginal and urethral discharge is not absolute evidence that a rape has been committed ; and in persons who are subjects of stricture and irritable ui'ethra, a discharge apparently gonorrhoeal sometimes exists, or appears after sexual intercoux'se or excitement, or debauch, or other cause of urethral irritation. Simple urethritis generally subsides in a week or ten days, unlike gonorrhoea, which continues some weeks or even months. But the dis- charge often becomes chronic in gouty persons, or when associated with stricture. Treatment consists in removing any cause of urethral irritation, and allaying the inflammatory symptoms. Thus, in a gouty or rheumatic case, both these indications may be answered by the administration of alkaline, saline aperients, combined perhaps with colchicum; aided by a moderate and non-stimulating diet. When the discharge has become passive, weak astringent injections, as of the diacetate of lead, alum, or sulphate of zinc, will gradually arrest the urethral secretion and complete the cure. I never use the two latter forms of astringents, nor find it necessary to have recourse to copaiba or cubebs. As associated with stricture, urethritis may occasion a tempoi-aiy retention of urine, partly spasmodic. Then, in addition to what is termed antiphlogistic treatment, the relaxing influence of opium or opiate suppositories, and a warm hip-bath, will usually overcome the obstruction. The use of a catheter should be postponed until relief cannot be otherwise obtained. Gonorrhoea or Blennorrliagia.—This form of urethritis is attended with muco-purulent discharge, of a specific character; and is generally produced by contagion or contact with a similar discharge, usually during sexual intercourse. It may affect, and infect, either the male . or female. In the male, the urethra is the seat of gonorrhoea, and particularly the anterior portion of the mucous membrane,—as far as the foi-sa uavicularis within the glans penis; but the urethral inflammation sometimes extends backwards along the whole length of the passage, and may even involve the mucous membrane of the bladder, in extreme cases. When gonorrhoeal inflammation subsides into a chronic state, the bulbous portion of the urethra is more especially affected, the intermediate anterior portion up to the glans being comparatively free. Other portions of the genital mucous membrane are often secondarily involved, as that of the prepuce and glans. The sijmjjtoms of gonorrhoea differ in the course of the disease, and