799 PHIMOSIS. contracted prepuce conceals the nature of a sore; or if, this having a destructive character, as a phagedtenic or sloughing ulcer, the requisite applications cannot be made ; then an operation is at once necessary to expose the sore for its treatment, though not to relieve the contraction. In congenital phimosis, an operation may always be performed, for the sake of convenience and cleanliness; unless the prepuce can be re- tracted with tolerable facility for either purpose. This, however, is usually the tightest form of phimosis, and where the prepuce is also redundant. The operations for phimosis are of two kinds ; the contracted pre- puce may be slit up, or circumcision may be performed. Both opera- tions are sometimes requisite. Slitting up of the Prepuce.—A grooved director is introduced be- tween the prepuce and glans, and moved to the front so as to know that it is not in the urethra; a narrow, curved, sharp-pointed bistoury is then passed along the groove and thrust through the prepuce, dividing it as the knife is withdrawn outwards. (Fig. 938.) The mucous membrane and the skin should be severed to an equal extent, bat the incision need not be usually more than half an inch in length, the contraction being at the ori- fice of the prepuce. Two or three points of suture will be necessary to bring the mucous membrane and skin together, in each half of the prepuce; and thus promote union by ad- hesion. If this be not done, the skin and mem- brane become separated by considerable swell- ing after the operation, and heal by granulation, —a slower process, and which leaves a thick- ened margin to either flap of the prepuce. I am accustomed to modify this simple operation to a procedure yet more simple ; I divide only the mucous membrane, and reti-act the prepuce as the knife is withdrawn; thereby unsheath- ing the glans to the requisite extent for its complete release. A blunt-pointed bistoury, or a concealed knife, may be used: the latter instrument being sufBcient for the operation without a director. Of course, no sutures are required. Circumcision.—The prepuce must be drawn well forwards, until that portion which corresponds to the back of the glans is brought in front of it; the projecting prepuce is then seized immediately in front of the glans with a pair of narrow-bladed forceps, and held by an assistant; when the free portion of the prepuce—already placed on the stretch—is severed just in front of the forceps by one stroke of a bistoury. On removing the forceps, the mucous membrane will be seen embracing the glans, and this must be snipped up with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, sufficiently to uncover the glans; and the frisnum also snipped across if necessary. Any small arteries, on either side, and one or two near the fraenum, must be secured by ligature or torsion; for, although bleeding slightly at the time, these vessels are apt to be the source of profuse haemorrhage afterwards, even to the amount of three or four pints of blood. A few points of suture—five or six—should then be inserted to unite the mucous and cutaneous Fig. 938.