SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUllGERY. 828 Fig. 957.* Sstory "^^^ ^^'^gnosis, however, must be determined by the syphilitic The consequences of this enlargement are atrophy of the glandular structure, owmg apparently to contraction of the intestinal fibrinous deposit; as in cirrhosis of the liver. Nevertheless, the tubuli seminif eri sometimes become involved; their walls being thickened and blended with the intervening tissue, according to Virchow, while the epithelium iming them undergoes pigmental and fatty degneration. The function ot the organ will be proportionately and permanently impaired or destroyed. This tendency is particularly noticed by Vidal (de Cassis) who, however, gives instances of recovery of function in testicles which had been severely invaded by syphilitic orchitis. Suppuration may take place, as a consequence of the chronic enlargement; forming an abscess in the substance of the testicle. The pus may degenerate into a caseous, calcareous, or earthy mass; but usually the abscess, in- creasing, at length contracts adhesion with the tunica vaginalis and scrotal integument, and then bursts through the tunica albuginea and discharges externally. The aperture having continued for a time, closes permanently; or a succession of abscesses form, burst, and heal. Any such abscess of the testicle, having burst, is not unfre- quently followed by ulcerative enlargement of the aperture, and pro- trusion^ of a portion or whole of the organ,—forming hernia testis. (See Fig. 959.) The integument, thickened and indurated, constricts the protruded portion ; and granulations springing up, give an ex- panded appearance to the protrusion, beyond what is really testicular. Treatment—When syphilitic sarcocele has not been long estab- lished, absorption of the deposit may be somewhat promoted by means of medicinal agents ; without injuriously affecting the general health, or damaging the remaining tissue of the organ. A mercurial course, combined with tonics, often proves beneficial; the bichloride of mercury, in doses of the twelfth or eighth of a grain, with quinine, three times a day, and continued for six or eight weeks. Iodide of potassium may then be advantageously substituted, until the hardness and swelling disappear. Strapping the testicle, as already explained, with ad- hesive or mercurial plaster, is less effectual in promoting absorption; and sometimes it seems to arouse the inert deposit to sup- puration. Scrofulous Sarcocele.—This variety of chronic enlargement of the testicle differs only from that of syphilitic origin, in two particulars: generally the epididymis, and even the vas deferens,—sometimes, however, the testis,—is primarily the seat of scrofulous deposit (Fig. 957) ; and this is at first con- tained within the tubules. The nodxdar form of enlargement is usually presented; and as the testicle itself soon becomes implicated, the * London Hosp. Mus., E./. Gl. Testicle laid open; showing a central deposit of pale, firm, scrofulous matter, consisting of fibro-corpubcular lymph,—" Ciironio scrofulous orchitis." (Andrew Clark.)