580 8PECUL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. In old-standing prolapsus, the mucous membrane becomes thickened and leathery, involving the submucous cellular tissue; the sphincter IS much relaxed and the anal orifice as much enlarged, while the surrounding integument is thickened, redundant, and pendulous; facilitating the occurrence of prolapsus. ' Sympathetic affections of other organs often accompany the de- pressing sense of bearing down occasioned by the prolapsus. Irrita- bility of the urinary bladder or spasmodic retention of urine are frequently experieiiced, and much flatulent, dyspeptic irritation, abdo- minal pain, especially corresponding to the transverse colon, and nausea. Pain sometimes extends across the loins and down the thighs. These symptoms are aggravated when the protrusion is recent and nipped by the sphincter, but the bowel may then recede spontaneously; a more chronic state of loose prolapsus, oft recurring and oft returned is productive of perpetual suffering. ' Congestion, ulceration, and purulent discharge are apt to occur; strangulation and sloughing have also been known to take place, and a natural cure may thus be effected. ' Sometimes, a hernial protrusion descends within the prolapsus of the bowel, presenting an unusual fulness, more often in the perineum, with some divergence of the anal orifice. This complication has happened in adults of both sexes, but not, I believe, in children The causes of prolapsus are predisposing, or exciting, in their opera- tion. Predisposing conditions may be fairly expressed by the terms general debility with an atonic state of the intestinal canal. Thus, prolapsus of the rectum is met with most frequently in weakly children or adults, and who are the subjects of atonic, flatulent, dyspeptic symptoms. The exciting causes of this affection vary with the pei-iod of life; in childhood, ascarides or some other source of intestinal irritation, giving rise to diarrhoea, frequently results in prolapsus,— especially when the child is habitually placed upon a chamber utensil, and there allowed to strain away; in adults, constipation, and espe- cially accumulation of fgeces in the rectum, is the more common cause, aided by the straining efforts in defecation. The bowel comes down with each evacuation, and progressively enlarges. Other causes operate in a similar manner; stone in the bladder, exciting frequent and difficult micturition, is a cause of prolapsus at either extreme period of life ; stricture of the urethra, and enlargement of the pro- state, as life advances, and the latter especially in old age. The habitual use of copious lavements has undoubtedly a prolapsing tendency. Internal hasmorrhoids result in prolapsus, by dragging down the overlying mucous membrane with them in their descent. Treatment.—Having regard to the causes of prolapsus, its remedial treatment should be both constitutional and local, the latter including operative measures. The boiuol must, of course, be first attended to, when in a state of protrusion. Reduction is accomplished, in the recumbent position, by gentle and uniform compression of the protruded portion with both hands, using a soft towel or piece of lint to protect the mucous surface, and to prevent its slipping from under the fingers. There may be some difficulty in returning the bowel, when the protrusion is large or the sphincter tight. Chloroform might then be administered to overcome the resistance ; or, by introducing the finger into the