SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEIIY. 086 including the "ligamentous ring or hand" around the neck of tha bladder, but not the capsular boundary formed by the reflection of the recto-vesical portion of the pelvic fascia. External to the capsule, some of the anterior fibres of the levator ani muscle will be divided^ and within the capsule, a plexus of rather large-sized veins must bo severed—in the prostatic incision. The parts to be avoided in the operation are in anatomical works thus enumerated:—the rectum ; the internal pudic artery, where it courses forwards under cover of the ramus of the pubes; the bulb of the urethra; and the artery of the bulb, which normally passes in- wards transversely about half an inch above the base of the triangular ligament, between it and the other or deep layer of the perineal fascia. Of these parts, the rectum will be avoided by having the staff well hooked up, protecting the bowel with the finger, and lateralizing the knife parallel with the bowel—particularly in an old person, whose rectum is commonly dilated into a pouch just above the anus, some- times even wrapping around the prostate from side to side. The pre- caution of emptying the bowel should also be observed. The arterial vessels mentioned are less readily wounded; but, when presenting ano- malies, they may be unavoidable. The pudic artery will be avoided by not turning the knife too much outwards in making the deep in • cision. Posteriorly, this artery is securely lodged under cover of the tuber ischii; but occasionally it descends over the inferior surface of the bladder and across the prostate to reach the penis. Or, the acces- sory pubic, as an occasional substitute for the pudic, when defective, lies on the posterior edge of the prostate ; it may then be avoided by not extending the prostatic incision backwards to the base of the gland. The artery of the bulb, a serious source of hsemorrhage, may perhaps be avoided by not cutting too freely upwards towards the groove of the staff ; but an irregular course of the vessel, lower down than usual, cannot be foreseen or avoided by any plan of incision. Some- times also, as arising from the obturator artery, or as a branch from the artery of the bulb on the opposite side, neither of these anomalies can possibly be anticipated. Lastly, the bulb of the urethra, a source of venous hsemorrhage, may be avoided by directing the point of the knife obliquely upwards beneath its projection, in the act of penetrating the membranous urethra. But I agree with Mr. Skey in not attach- ing much importance to a wound of the bulb ; and I have no doubt it not unfreqnently happens without any evil consequence. The venous plexuses, within the capsule of the prostate, are sometimes much en- larged, especially in old men, and become a source of unavoidable hfemorrhage. As compared with these anatomical peculiarities, it will be found that while anatomy plans the landmarks and limits of the incisions-— perineal and prostatic—the 'pathological conditions of the prostate and of the bladder are of more surgical importance in completing the operation. The Lateral Operation in Children.—Lateral lithotomy is performed in the same way in Children as in Adults ; but the anatomical condition of the parts under the age of puberty, and especially in childhood, affects the performance of this operation. The anatomical peculiarities alluded to are chiefly four: looseness of the perineal cellular texture in the recto-vesical space; the small size, thinness, and weakness of the membranous urethra; the rudimentary small size of the prostate ; and