9 848 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. inmoci, induratod margin, an unhealthy grey surface, and a tendency to the production of warty granulations, and liability to bleed, are its most distinctive appearances. It may commence in, or extend 'into and up, the vagina; converting this passage into a hard, solid, open tube, having a tuberculated surface, of an ash-grey colour. This state of the vagina was well marked in a patient under my care at the Hospital. The inguinal glands speedily become infected. This affection occurs most frequently after middle age. Treatment.—The disease may be removed by excision or by caustic; and any affected glands must also be extirpated. In the case just referred to, I freely cauterized the interior of the vagina with strong nitric acid, but only with temporary benefit. A speedy return of the disease is the, perhaps, invariable result of any interference. Bodent ulcer is very rarely met with on the female genitals. It may be distinguished from epithelial cancer, by the absence of warty growth, by its slow progress, and by the freedom of the glands from infection. This disease is amenable to excision. Yascular or Erectile Tumours not uncommonly grow near, or just within, the meatus urinarius. Such tumours are broad-based or pedunculated, of small size, red and disposed to bleed, sensitive or painful. Pain in micturition, and in sexual intercourse, with occa- sional bleeding, lead to an examination, and then the source of irrita- tion is discovei-ed. Treatment.—Complete removal of the growth is the only cure, and this may be effected by excision with curved scissors, ligature, or cauteiy. The submucous base must be removed with the growth; it will therefore be necessary to thoroughly expose the part for operation, and it may be desirable to place the patient under the influence of chloroform. (Edema of the vulva is not very uncommon, the labia becoming swollen and tense, very painful, or affected with an intolerable itching, and sometimes cracked or ulcerated. This condition more often depends on obstruction to the circulation in an advanced stage of pregnancy, or in connection with ascites or general anasarca; but it may also be symptomatic of an enfeebled constitution,—resembling a similar oedema or anasarca of the scrotum in the male. Treatment will have perhaps little effect, when the cause cannot be removed; but, as a topical application, an astringent ointment—acetate of lead oint- ment, 3^-5 with the extract of opium, ^i-—may, according to my exjje- rience, prove most beneficial. Indeed, I have known the swelling thus subdued, and relief afforded, when otherwise life was unendurable. This should be combined with quinine and iron, as a tonic, with a nourishing diet, in a broken state of the constitution. A varicose condition of the vems of the labia, or involving the whole vulva, is sometimes consequent on pregnancy or a uterine tumour. Inflammation or hgemorrhage from ruptui*e of the veins is apt to occur; the latter especially daring child-birth. The usual treatment must be adopted: the recumbent position, and cold lotions; or, iu the event of haemorrhage, compression or ligature of the bleeding vessel. Fruritus of the labia, or of the entire vulva, is another complaint; and of which I have seen several instances. The labia—not swollen 1i