DISEASES OF PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. 365 not uncommon among clergymen and public speakers. It often arises ^^'Ki-^ALt^X applied have some beneficial in- flnpnie Tonic treatment of the general health is an important adjunct, K the apparent causes adverted to must, o± course, be removed when !nm.tances permit. Should relaxation still continue m spite of all measures a portion of the pendent uvula must be cut ott. Ss may easily be done by seizing the extremity with polypus-forceps, and Sping off, with blunt-pointed scissors so much as to leave the stamp of the natural length of the uvula. _ A combination of f e 3^ <,piRsors—an instrument of American invention—has been ':::i'i:tt:^^^^^^^ -ma being held and cut off at the same '*'"'tumoues of the Yelum Palati.-(1.) Fibro-cellular ov warty t tumours are usually attached to the free border or upper surface of the soft palate. Having a painless character, and being of slow growth, hey are often only discovered when mechanically inconvenient by dropping down behind the root of the tongue. These tumours can be . removed with forceps and scissors, care bemg observed to snip them I off as near to the base of the pedicle as possible. . ^ . ■ (2 ) Cysts, mucous or sebaceous, are sometimes met with m the sott , palate, containing respectively a thin, glairy fluid, or yellowish-white I fatty matter. They must be laid open by a free incision, and their i interior touched with a stick of nitrate of silver. Abscess of the velum presents a globular swelling of the whole palate, accompanied by the red blush and pain of inflammation, it must be opened early and freely with a sharp-pointed, protected bis- ^^''phartnx and (Esophagus.—Acute Phaetngitis.—Inflammation of the pharynx, occurring generally as a continuation of a similar con- dition of the fauces and soft palate, but rarely as an independent affec- tion, has often an erysipelatous and diffuse character. It sometimes terminates in purulent infiltration of the subcellular tissue. Sloughing of the mucous membrane occurs in the malady known as cynanche mali<^na, or putrid sore throat. This is sometimes an epidemic affec^ tion,°and is always due to blood-poisoning. The pharynx acquires an ashen-grey appearance, and large portions of the mucous membrane and sub-mucous tissue become sphacelated even down to the muscular fibre. An eruption of herpes, precisely similar to the herpes of the skin, occasionally occurs on the mucous membrane of the pharynx. It is the affection spoken of by ancient writers under the name of herpes gutturis. This kind of sore throat is extremely painful. , . , . The local treatment in all these cases, except the last, which i3 seldom an affection of any danger, should be soothing. The constitu- tional treatment should consist in the administration of quinine with mineral acids, and easily digested nourishment and alcoholic stimulants. Laryngotomy may have to be performed, owing to impending suffo- cation from CBdema or spasm of the glottis. But when purulent infiltration has taken place, with considerable swelling, extending per- haps down the oesophagus to its cardiac end, swallowing becomes impossible, and recovery is almost hopeless. Chronic Pharyngitis generally consists in an affection of the race- mose glands of the mucous membrane, known as " granular pharjnx "