692 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. or soft; breaking into several sharp fragments, or squasliing into a soft mortar-like mass. It occurs mostly to phosphatic calculi. This breaking down of the stone results usually from too firm a grasp with the forceps, either lest the stone sbould slip away, or by pulling too high up and coming in contact with the pubic arch, or in consequence of the pressure requisite in extracting a large-sized stone. The frac- ture generally leaves a central stone in the blades of the forceps, -which should be extracted, and the detached fragments removed by the repeated introduction of this instrument or the scoop, and the bladder thoroughly washed out. Detritus will probably still remain, and small fragments may be discharged through the wound for some days; then the bladder should be injected daily through a catheter passed down the urethra, and the water made to escape freely by the wound, the stream carrying with it particles of calculus. This plan should be continued until no more detritus is brought away. If the wound has healed, the fragments remaining must be washed out through the urethra, by means of a catheter, as after lithotrity. Bichefy deformity of the pelvis, although not a common cause of difficulty in lithotomy, may present insuperable obstacles in extracting the stone. If the brim of the pelvis be narrowed in its antero-posterior diameter, the difficulty of extraction will be increased in children, owing to the high position of the bladder. Narrowing of the pubic arch, which is always narrow in children, may quite preclude ex- traction, or even the introduction of the forceps. These conditions should be ascertained before operation, and supra-pubic lithotomy performed. The Accidents which may happen during the lateral operation are : —(1) wound of the rectum ; (2) heemorrhage, arising either from the vessels necessarily divided, or from the pudic artery or the artery of the bulb, or from certain accidental deviations of these vessels, and from the prostatic or other veins ; (3) wound of the bulb; (4) missing the urethra and entering the bladder beyond the pi-ostate; (5) pene- tration of the posterior part of the bladder from within its cavity. The three first-named accidents have already been adverted to in considering the parts to be avoided in performing the lateral operation. (1.) Wound of the rectum is important according to its size or situa- tion. The accident is more liable to occur in old persons, the rectum —as Deschamps observed—being dilated, and even wrapped around the prostate on either side. A small puncture, low down near the anus, may be left to itself; a little feculent fluid escapes from the perineal wound for some days, along with the urine, but as granula- tion closes up, this ceases, and the urine is transmitted through the urethra. A larger-sized aperture, or when situated higher up the bowel, had better be dealt with at once and in the same way as fistula in ano. The bowel should be laid open into the perineal wound, by an incision from the accidental aperture downwards through the sphincter ani, so as to form one cavity. Grranulation from the bottom may then restore the continuity of the bowel. Otherwise, a recto-vesical fistulous communication will remain. Hcemorrhage must be managed on ordinary principles; by ligature or torsion of any distinctly bleeding artery that may be accessible, or by pressure. The artery of the bulb is the principal source of serious, or even fatal htemorrhage; and so also would be the internal pudic, as