751 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. accomplislied. When tlie stones are large, and not more than two or three in number, median lithotomy should be performed, and extrac- tion effected with scoop or forceps. A larger-sized calculus had better be removed by the lateral operation. Sometimes the Surgeon has to deal with a urinary calculus or fragment, lodged in the prostatic urethra. Here the urethral forceps can more often be employed with advantage; or failing thus to remove the stone, it may be pushed back into the bladder, and sub- mitted to lithotrity or lithotomy. Lastly, the occasional coexistence of prostatic and vesical calculus presents a difficulty in the way of the lateral operation. Yet, under these circumstances, this mode of removing both calculi may alone be practicable. CHAPTER LXIV. DISEASES OP THE URETHRA. These diseases have been incidentally alluded to, as associated with vesical and prostatic affections, and may be thus enumerated :—(1) Inflammation of the Urethra, or Urethritis, and its more specific form, Gonorrhoea; (2) Stricture or contraction of the canal, in some part or parts of its extent,—as a structural or organic and permanent con- dition, or as a spasmodic or an inflammatory state; (3) Tumours occasionally ; (4) Urethral Calculus. The results of Urethral obstruc- tion comprise—Retention 6f Urine; Extravasation; Rupture of the Bladder; and Urinary Fistulas,—penile, scrotal, perineal, urethro- vaginal, and vesico-vaginal fistulae. Urethritis.—Simple inflammation of the urethral mucous mem- brane may arise from various causes, at any age, and in either sex. Any one who may be thus affected experiences heat, pricking, and tension in the urethra for a day or two, with some scalding sensation in passing water; symptoms which are followed by a muco-purulent discharge. Sometimes the only symptom is this whitish discharge from the urethra, unaccompanied with any inflammatory character. The diagnosis of this urethral affection, in either form, is very im- portant, from its resemblance to Gonorrhoea. In the active condition of simple urethritis, the distinction from Gonorrhoea is extremely difficult; in the passive condition, it resembles gleet, but differs in the thicker and more opaque character of the urethral discharge. The causes of simple inflammation of the urethra differ also fr-om that of gonorrhoea, which arises from a specific contagion; though here it must be confessed, the line of distinction is even less definite. ' Certain constitutional causes, gout, rheumatism, scrofula, and the : influence of particular medicines, as guaiacum or cayenue pepper : frequently induce urethritis. These causes seem to affect the uretlira ' by morbid states of the urine, as when it is loaded with lithic or with • oxalic acid; thus producing direct irritation in the passage of such 1 urine. They give rise to the active form of urethritis, and the dis-