733 INCONTINENCE OF URINE. Fig. 899.* portion remains behind after each, act of micturition, and this residual nrine having amounted to twenty or even thirty ounces in quantity, it beo'ins to expand the neck of the bladder; leakage takes, place, when strong expul- sive force is exercised, or by relaxation of the sphincter during sleep. But the resistance prevails, and the contractile power is gradually more and more over- ' come by continued distension of the blad- ■ der ; until the muscular fibres are over- : stretched, and the cavity of the organ becomes proportionately enlarged. The bladder is in a permanently atonic and I enlarged condition. (Fig. 899.) Treatment.—Curative measures will 1 consist in the removal of any cause of I obstruction to the free passage of urine, iand the prevention of its accumulation :in the bladder. The urine should be 1 regularly drawn off once or twice a day, i in order to enable the muscular fibres to ] recover their normal condition of con- 1 traction and tone. A small, slow stream of urine will be procured, the (Contractile power of the bladder being overcome by distension. By I this mechanical relief, a more or less completely successful result may Ibe produced. At the same time, the tone may then be reinforced by 1 medicinal treatment; chiefly, by the stimulants of nervous action, s general and local, employed in paralysis. Injections of cold water iinto the bladder have a direct and marked beneficial effect. Certain modifications of the function of micturition remain to be I noticed. Inconttnence of Urine.—An involuntary escape of urine differs ffrom frequent micturition, which is of a voluntary, although painfully 1 urgent, character. Incontinence may occur under two opposite conditions. In children, :and only during sleep, when the voluntary power of retention is tem- porarily suspended, the bladder then emptying itself; in ad.idts of all cages, from retention amounting to over-distension, a certain quantity of tthe urine then running off and leaving a quantity still retained,—an event which may happen during sleep or waking. An involuntary escape of urine, in the adult, always indicates a distended, not an empty, sst^te of the bladder. ' The causes of incontinence differ accordingly. In childhood and }youth, it generally arises from debility, or intestinal irritation ; some- ttimes from the evil habit of masturbation, or an acid state of the urine. Iln adult life, its causes are those of retention—paralysis affecting the bbladder, atony from over-distension, stricture, enlarged prostate, cystitis, * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., BB. 10. Atrophy and dilatation of the bladder to »about four times its natural size, and extreme thinning of the walls of the cavity • .^sacculation, in the form of nine small pouches or saccnli, from the posterior and left l^n li 7 f 1"^ ' ''rl ""^^ : "° appearance of fasciculi. The nmiddle lobe of the prostate is enlarged, m the form of an elevated ridge, at the neck ootScti^gSkS^ '''' """^ '''' "l'---'^^'