BECTO-VESICAL AND SUPRA-PUBIC, OR HIGH, OPERATION. 701 whetlier oblique, vertical, transverse, or curved. The principles of this operation are—to have one large external incision, and many small internal ones. The two first sections of the prostate are made along the inferior oblique diameter of the gland on either side, which will prove sufficient when the stone is of moderate size; but two superior oblique sections must be added, first one and then the other, when the stone is very large. Recto-VESICAL Operation.—Lithotomy through the rectum is claimed by Sanson as his procedure. A grooved, curved staff having been introduced into the bladder, a vertical incision is made, corre- sponding to the raphe of the perineum, and dividing the sphincter ani and lower part of the rectum. Continuing the dissection, the mem- branous portion of the urethra and prostate are exposed. A vertical section of the prostate is then effected, either by passing the knife along the groove of the staff from before backwards, or by entering the knife behind the prostate and drawing it forwards on the finger in the groove of the staff. A portion of the base of the bladder, uncovered by peritoneum behind the prostate, has even been divided. The staff is withdrawn, the finger introduced, and the stone extracted with the forceps. Recto-vesical lithotomy was practised in this country by Mr. Lloyd. This operation has been recommended on the ground of its afford- ing an easy passage for extracting instruments, and as being free from the risk of hgemorrhage. But there is great risk of wounding the peritoneum and vesiculge seminales ; and of the subsequent occurrence of urinary infiltration, the passage of faeces into the bladder, and recto- vesical fistula. Coulson has seen cases of permanent fistulous com- munication. This method of lithotomy has, therefore, been discarded; and it cannot be deemed advisable even in cases of impacted calculus in the wall of the bladder. The results are very unfavourable; in 185 cases thus operated on, 38 died, being a mortality of 1 in 4"86. But the mortality varies according to the mode of operation; and adversely with regard to the method by incision extending behind the prostate. Thus, in six such cases by Dapuytren, three of the patients died from pelvic cellulitis. The risk of recto-vesical fistula is increased by this incision ; the remaining three cases having had that result. Of seven cases by Vacca, four or five had the same result; and also three out of four cases in which Geri operated. As compared with lateral lithotomy; at Turin, in five cases of the recto-vesical operation, three were fatal; whereas eleven patients, submitted to the lateral operation, all made speedy recoveries. Supra-pubic, Htpogastric, or High Opekation.—The size of the calculus, or the state of the perineum, especially with regard to the pelvic outlet, may render perineal lithotomy, in any other form, im- practicable. Under these circumstances, or other impracticable con- ditions, recourse may be had to supra-pubic lithotomy. In children, and persons below twenty years of age, the bladder stands high above the pubes, and presents a portion uncovered by peritoneum, which is freely accessible; under eight years, the peritoneal reflection from the bladder does not generally reach lower than an inch and a half to two inches from the navel. In old persons, especially when emaciated, the bladder lies deep in the pelvis, behind the symphysis pubis, and would be difficult to reach, epecially in a corpulent person. Chronic cystitis,