561 FISTULA m ANO. the fistulous passage contracts and closes up, and either or both orifices, as the case may be. Rarely, however, is any such ■ curvative tendency evinced; and while the Surgeon might be misled by exceptional in- stances of this kind, patients are too often deluded and their sufEerings pi'olonged by the specious promises of rapacious quacks, with their dressings, or other " peculiar treatment, without the use of the knife." An operation is usually the only means of cure. Such interference is contra-indicated whenever fistula depends on some persistent cause. Operation would then be either useless or prejudicial,—it would fail to cure the disease, or, being thus successful, it would develop the causative condition into greater activity. Therefore, operative inter- fei'ence, for the cure of fistula, should not be had recourse to in fistula connected with any persistent local condition, as disease of the rectum, or caries of the sacrum or coccyx; and still less, when it is dependent on some constitutional condition, advanced phthisis in particular. In this disease, the drain by constant discharge from the fistula might seem to aid in reducing the general health ; but its derivative influence on the pulmonary disease is a more important consideration, and also that the operation-wound will probably not heal. Bat at an earlier period, and when the disease is not rapidly progressing, coupled with favourable hygienic circumstances, experience inclines to the constitu- tional advantage of operation, and the probability of cure. No principle of treatment is more simple than that of the established Fig. 833.* operation for fistula in ano; and no operative procedure is generally more easily performed, or is more effectual. The principle is simply this,—that the fistula being kept open by the almost constant Fig- 834. action of the adjoining sphincter ani muscle, division of this mus- cle will set the part at rest, and allow it to heal and close from the bottom. Accordingly, the bowels having been well cleared with castor oil or other mild aperient medicine, and the rec- tum emptied by an enema on the day of operation, the patient is laid on the side most conveni- ent to the operator ; the tliighs are drawn up so that the but- tocks shall project over the side of the bed or table, and the latter held apart by an assistant. A probe, or director, introduced through the external opening in the skin, will guide to the internal opening, should it exist, or to a spot * Curling's fistula-knife, by Weiss, VOL. n. 2 Q