DISEASES OF THE LACHRYMAL APPABATUS. 195 throngli the conjunctival surface. The tears thus being diverted, the fistulous aperture may be closed by paring and uniting its edges. Tumour of the gland presents a lobulated enlargement at the outer angle of the orbit. Extirpation is the only remedy. This operation may also have to be performed to overcome the inconvenience of an overflow of tears, when the puncta and canaliculi, at the inner angle of the eye, have been wholly destroyed by an extensive burn. In three such cases, Mr. Dixon has extirpated the gland; and these are the only instances of this operation which have fallen within his experience. The gland has been removed with the eye; and sometimes it has been involved in the disease of this organ, but more frequently found in a healthy state. Care must be taken not to confound a syphilitic node with a swelling of the lachrymal gland. In the former disease the free use of iodide of potassium will usually speedily effect a cure. (2.) LacJirymal Obstructions.—The puncta, canaliculi, the lachrymal sac, and the nasal duct are severally liable to become the seat of ob- struction ; and far more frequently than the excretory ducts of the gland itself. Thickening of the delicate lining mucous membrane would seem to be the cause of obstruction, in each of these portions of the lachrymal excretory apparatus. Epiphora is an overflow of tears, and may therefore be symptomatic of any lachrymal obstruction on the nasal side. Obstruction of the puncta or of the canaliculi will be attended with a complete overflow; none of the secretion finding its way into the sac. Obstruction of the nasal duct, by stricture, necessitates an accumulation of the tears and mucus, within the sac; forming a swelling—mucocele—just below the inner angle of the eye. The distended sac becomes inflamed and suppurates, forming an abscess; and this at length discharges itself through an opening in the skin, constituting fistula lachrymalis. The appearances of these transitional states are too obvious to need description. The fistulous opening is generally beset with fungous granulations, owing to the constant irritation of the trickling dis- charge. Further destruction of the surrounding skin, or even of the bony casement of the sac, sometimes ensues. Or, the fistulous opening contracts to a small pin-hole aperture, resembling one of the puncta. Treatment.—The cause of obstruction must be removed, and for this purpose its seat must be reached. Inflammatory thickening of the membrane lining the sac and nasal canal may be lessened by small oval blisters applied over the sac. Astrin- gent lotions of alum or tannin dropped into the eye, pass through the puncta to the thickened membrane. Acute inflam- mation should be met by warm fomenta- tions and water-dressing; and when abscess has supervened, an incision must be made into the sac and the pus evacuated. The general health should be attended to, ac- cordmg to its condition in the course of the case. Tonics will generally be indicated. * Shows the mode of passicg a probe through the caHalicuhis into the nasal 8ac. Fis. 615.*