259 CATAERH OF THE MIDDLE EAR. ■formed by means of a small double-edged scalpel introduced through the speculum. The membrane should be punctured, for the purpose of evacuation, at the point at which the greatest bulging is present, while for the other purposes a spot behind the manubrium is usually- chosen. The opening having been made sufficiently large, an air ■douche should be passed through the cavity by one of the usual methods. The operation is easily performed, and generally causes little pain. If the hearing is improved or the tinnitus diminished, and a permanent opening in the membrane is desirable, the Surgeon must attempt to keep it from closing by a bougie, by Politzer's eyelet, by making the perforation with the galvano-cautery, by excising a portion ■of the malleus with a portion of the membrane, by the constant use of the air douche, etc. But the regenerative power of the membrane is so large that no method that has been tried acts with a certainty of success. Catarrh of the Middle Ear is the name under which the ordinary affections of the cavity of the tympanum are included. This catarrh may exist in either the acute or the chronic form, the chronic being •the most frequent. Acute catarrh is usually brought on by some •definite cause, and is associated with catarrhal inflammation of the jiasal passages and fauces, or with bronchial catarrh. The pathological .conditions are great hyperasmia of the mucous membrane of the middle ear, with an increased secretion; the pharyngeal mucous mem- brane near the orifice of the Eustachian tubes being almost always -affected. The sounds heard thi-ough the otoscope (one end of Avhich is placed in the meatus of the patient, the other in that of the Surgeon), when air is passed into the cavity by Valsalva's or Politzer's methods, vary from a harsh dry sound, like that caused by dis- tending a dry bladder, to a true mucous rale. At the beginning of the attack the membrana tympani has the appearance of a bright, poHshed, copper plate; but soon loses its brilliant reflection, and assumes a dull, sodden appearance, from the infiltration of the tissues. The handle of the malleus is plainly visible, except in very severe cases, in which it becomes obscured by the passage of the exudation anto the dermoid layers of the membrane. The vessels running over it are then seen to be greatly injected, so that there is a red line in the middle of the membrane. Should an accumulation of fluid have ' taken place in the cavity on account of the swelling and consequent closure of the mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube, a bulging of the membrana tympani will be observed. The subjective symptoms are mtense pain in the ear, which is increased by every motion of the parts, such as coughing or swallowing; diminution of the hearing; a leehng of fulness and pressure in the ear, with tinnitus of various characters, such as singing, hammering, surging; and the patients are ^° whether these are not sounds originating externally f +1 J^^^^ ^""^ sometimes febrile symptoms, with vertigo, confusion |t thought, and other symptoms of pressure. The sub-acute form is a LomtDmation of the same symptoms, but in a milder dec^ree o'eriPr^n f^'^^l^'''''^ ^« neglected, it passes into the°chronic, which Svff ^T. ''''''^^^ involves both the Eustachian tube and the of S: r,. T^' ^^J^l^""^ localized to the tube, or to the other walls leark fn chrome form is most obstinate to treatment, and 'the Chan- "^^''"^^^ deafness, which depends more on the locality of Changes than their extent. It consists in repeated swellings, with