292 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tlie moutli, on eacli side, into the cheek, thus loosening the lower lip. The margins of the V-shaped incision are then united by suture; while any portion of the upper border which may not be required for the formation of the new lip, from out of the cheek, is united to the part with which it is in contact. The mucous membrane in the mouth should be united to the skin by fine sutures. When the loss of substance is quadrilateral, two other incisions, parallel to the two prolonging the angles of the mouth, must be made along the base of the jaw. The two quadrilateral flaps, thus marked out, are then dissected from the bone, and brought forward, union in the middle line being obtained by sutures, as in the former operation. Mr. Syme's operation consists in removing the cancerous ulcer by a large V or triangular incision, extending from the angles of the mouth to the chin. The apex is then the starting-point of an incision on each side, obliquely downwards and outwards, under the body of the jaw, and terminating in a slight curve outwards and upwards. The flaps, thus indicated, are dissected outwards, and raised upwards, until the original triangular incision lies in a horizontal line, forming the margin of the new lip ; the incisions under the jaw are then brought together into a vertical line, and are retained by hare-lip pins with twisted sutures. Dr. Buchanan, of Glasgow, in 1841, had devised a similar operation: —The diseased portion of lip having been removed by an ellijjtical in- cision, extending from angle to angle of the mouth, an incision is then carried downwards and outwards to the chin, on each side; and from these points an incision is made upwards and outwards, on each side, on the body of the jaw, parallel to and corresponding in length to the elliptical incision below the lip. (Fig. 678.) The flaps, having been dissected, are raised to a horizontal line, and these are united in position along the middle line. This operative procedure may surpass Syme's, when the incisions are required to meet the removal of a large, elliptical- shaped portion of substance, comprising the whole lip from side to side; but it will, otherwise, be desirable to have the incisions as little on the face as possible. All these plans of labio- plastic operation for the lower lip are, however, superior to that of Chopart's operation, whereby the flaps of integument were raised from below the jaw, even as low down as to the hyoid bone. (2.) The Upper lip less frequently requires restoration, its structure being comparatively seldom the seat of cancer-growth. Shrinking of the upper lip sometimes ensues from profuse salivation, by which this part is tightly stretched over the alveolar arch, and per- haps adherent to the gums. Von Ammon rectifies this condition by the following plastic opera- tion :—The lip is first detached from the gum, then an incision is carried upwards from the angle of the mouth, for about an inch and a half, towards the ala nasi. The tense parts separate, and this longi- tudinal fissure assumes a triangular shape. A flap of integument is dissected from the cheek, and brought down to occupy the space at the