355 SCALDS OF THE GLOTTIS, MOUTH, AND PHARYNX. in tbe proportion of 1 to 5|. Of the three kinds of operation, trache- otomy was most favourable, the deaths being only in the ratio of 1 to gl • whereas, after each of the other two operations, the proportion of deaths was twice as great. The most frequent cause of death was in- flammation of the lungs. . J. Scalds op the Glottis, Mouth, and Pharynx—not untreqnently happen among the children of the poor, in their attempting to drink from the spout of a kettle containing boiling water. The act of swal- lowing is not complete, but the inside of the mouth and pharynx are scalded, and oedema of the glottis is speedily induced; the interior of the larynx remaining unaffected. A similar state may be produced by the inhalation of flame in the explosion of gas or fire-damp. The symptoms are, immediate and urgent suffocative cough, and difficulty of breathing; and the appearances are, puffed and turgid lips, the interior of the mouth and fauces having a whitened and soddened aspect. Death soon follows, unless the inflammation be subdued. Treatment.—Leeches to the throat, and small, repeated doses of calomel and opium, may succeed in reducing the oedema; but the urgency of the dyspnoea will probably necessitate tracheotomy without delay, as the only chance of safety; and a tube must be introduced into the tracheal aperture and retained there, until this has subsided under the continuance of remedial measures. The operation is ren- dered more than usually difficult, by the shortness, fatness, and tur- gidity of the neck, and small size of the trachea. Having performed the operation several times, under these circumstances, I-can confirm the opinion of those Surgeons who regard it as only an unavoidable alterna- tive between death and the possible preservation of life, and that the result is generally fatal, from the supervention of bronchitis or pneumonia. Strong mineral aoids are occasionally swallowed, either with suicidal intent or by accident. The effects of such fluids, as sulphuric acid, are similar to those produced by boiling water, the mucous mem- brance of the fauces and pharynx becoming whitened and corrugated, with some tendency to oedema glottidis. But, in Mr. Spence's ex- perience of such cases, suffocation is rarely so urgent as to necessitate recourse to tracheotomy. AsPHTXLA or APNffiA.—These terms are synonymous only by usage, as being understood to signify want of breath; their etymological meaning is widely different—the one signifying an absence of pulse (d, not, o-(f}vl(i}, I beat) ; the other, an absence of breath (d, not, irvid), I breathe). Apnoea should, therefore, correctly speaking, be the term selected to designate the various forms of suspended or impeded respi- ration ; but the term Asphyxia has, by association, become so familiar that I here employ it as having that meaning. Symptoms.—Dyspnoea or difficulty of breathing, as indicated by the respiratory movements; which, at first short and rapid, soon become deep, forcible, and prolonged, with a gradually widening interval be- tween them, until just before they entirely cease, when they again diminish in force and duration. The circulation of blood undergoes concurrent changes; the heart's action, at first accelerated, in a few seconds becomes slow, laboured, and feeble, till the pulse ceases to be perceptible at the wrist. The heart, however, still beats, audibly to the ear, and palpably to the hand, applied to the chest; this action gradually becomes less and less distinct, till it entirely stops at a period