DISEASES OP THE BREAST. 439 heavy, pendalous breast; and in the small, atrophied, disc-shaped oro-an.' The one feels like a great ball under the integuments; the other, under whicli the tips of the fingers may be inserted, feels like a quoit'covered with skin. Indurated portions simulate tumours formed by a new growth; but, although distinctly felt when pressed between the finger and thumb, under pressure flatly against the chest any such portion will be imperceptible as a hard mass. Great tenderness, and even pain amounting to agony, on the sHghtest handling, is often experienced; the patient's face becoming suddenly suffused with a brio-ht red blush, or pallid, while a sensation of nausea or_ faintness oppresses her. The pain has two other characters besides its intensity ; it is widely distributed, shooting up the neck, or behind to the back, and particularly to the scapula, and often down the arm ; and it may be traced to the middle or anterior branches of the intercostal nerves, which are painful on the slightest pressure, the filaments of the painful nerve or nerves being distributed to the indurated portion of the breast; the pain is also paroxysmal, and it may pass from one breast to the other as an alternate affection. No trace of any inflammation of the integuments can ever be discovered. The general health is much dis- turbed, and the nervous system highly excited. The causes of chronic mammary induration seem to have reference to functional derangements of the generative organs, but which may be of an opposite character; amenorrhoea. menorrhagia, dysmenorrhoea, or commonly profuse leucorrhoea. Unmarried women, between twenty-five and forty years of age, are most subject to these indura- tions: and of the married, sterile women are far more frequently affected. Treatment is chiefly constitutional; tonics, such as iron, quinine, the mineral acids, and occasionally sedatives, have the most beneficial influence, coupled with the hygienic regimen of hysteria. Menstrua- tion may perhaps be rectified by remedies which directly regulate that function. Of topical applications, evaporating lotions and sedative ointments are of some palliative use in relieving pain; and when the breast will bear pressure, simple strapping, or with emplastrum ammo- niaci cum hydrargyro, may aid in dispersing the induration. Irritable Mamma.—A condition of hypersesthesia or exalted sensi- bility of the skin covering the breast, as well as of the gland itself, is not an uncommon affection. The breast is somewhat enlarged, firm, and conical, the nipple swollen, and the skin generally reddened. But the pain is the most prominent symptom, it being excited by the slightest touch, by the gentlest contact of the dress, or even by exposure to cool air. It is very widely distributed, and paroxysmal, alternating possibly from one breast to the other. The pain having a neuralgic character, and being unconnected with any structural disease of the gland, this mammary affection has also received the name of mastodynia. But it is of an hysterical nature, and often associated with a similar constitu- tional condition. Young girls are more subject to this affection than women above the age of twenty-five; and it seems to be of uterine origin, but is pro- bably induced by depraved habits. The treatment is similar to that of chronic induration of the mamma. Hypertrophy.—Simply an overgrowth of the gland itself, is a very rare modification of the nutrition of this organ. The size attained