SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. G54 atmosphere, aids tliis effect on Europeans, prior to their acclimatiza- tion. Hydro-carbonaceous matter, ordinarily eliminated by the lungs, accumulates in the blood, and the liver is proportionately overtaxed— a burden increased by indulging in stimulating liquors, especially malt beverages, which, abounding with hydro-carbonaceous matter, fall heavily on this organ, and further tax its functional power beyond endurance. Such being the predisposing influences of high temperature, any change of temperature approaching to cold is the immediate or exciting cause of jaundice. In every case. Sir Ranald Martin affirms,* that he has seen in England amongst those who have returned from India, cold has been the immediate cause of this disease. Taking seventy-two cases of icterus typhoides, by Lebert, one-third occurred in November and December. The preventive measures suggested by these observations are plain. They are most important to persons about to visit any tropical climate. Although unavoidably subjected to the physiological in- fluences of heat, certain precautions are available. Prudent moderation in the use of stimulating beverages, and the careful regulation of clothing, should be rigidly observed. Besides adequate protection against the vicissitudes of external temperature, the cautious indul- gence of cold drinks—iced beverages—is an injunction not to be forgotten. On returning home, after residing for some time in a tropical climate, it is advisable, if possible, to pass the ensuing winter in a more even climate than that of England. And when residing again in this country, these precautions, especially with regard to vicissitudes of temperature, should still be observed. Urinaey Calculi. Urinary Calculus, or stone, signifies a concretion of one or more of the constituents of the urine, forming a hard mass. Origin.—It originates from the precipitation of urinary consti- tuents, as Urinary Deposits, in consequence of a loss of solvent capa- city in the water of the urine. This may arise in one of three ways : by an excess of any substance for the water to dissolve ; by a deficiency of water for solution of the substance; or by the presence, or absence, of some third substance. In either way, different natural analyses of the urine occur; precipitating urinary deposits, and resulting in the formation of urinary calculi. Production.—The deposit may aggregate from a focus of its own substance; more frequently it gathers around a foreign body as a distinct nucleus; in either way producing a calculus. In the former mode of production, aggregation is due either to an excess of in- soluble constituents and thence their immediate precipitation, as m the ordinary forms of uric acid, urate, and oxalate concretions; or, to retention of the urine in the bladder,—in consequence of paralysis, chronic inflammation and hypertrophy of the organ, enlargement ot the prostate, or stricture of the urethra, all of which conditions severally lead to the retention of urine, and perhaps affect its chemical constitution,—as in the formation of phosphatic calcuh. When a * " Influence of Tropical Climates in proclucing the Acute Endemic Diseases of Europeans," 2nd ed., 186 L.