SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 700 and snbmucouR tissues; thereby glueing together the organic muR- cular layer ^vJiich immediately underlies the mucous membrane, and in virtue of which the canal naturally undergoes temporary alterations ot calibre, by relaxation or contraction. This kind of cause comprises gonorrhoea; the inflammation extending along the canal, and being of a severe or long-continued character. The symptoms of stricture supervene very slowly and insidiously ; a period of many years perhaps elapsing before the existence of this organic constriction is declared feimple urethritis may have the same result, but only under the opera- tion of some persistent constitutional condition. Injections for the cure of gonorrhoea tend to the formation of stricture, when used in the inflammatory stage, or of too great strength, or long continued. Thus, an injection of nitrate of silver, one to two grains to the ounce of water, can do no harm; but in the proportion of ten grains to the ounce, it may certainly produce stricture. Abscess in a lacuna of the urethra, followed by contraction of the cicatrix, is an occasional cause; and cancerous or other ulcers may similarly result in the formation of stricture, usually near the external meatus. Amputation of the penis sometimes issues in like manner. (2.) Injury to the urethra by external violence on the perineum, bruising, lacerating, or rupturing the urethra, is followed by a cicatrix, the contraction of which is very apt to result in stricture of the most severe and intractable character. This kind of cause comprises kicks on the perineum; falls on some hard projection, as across spars, scaffolding, ladders, chairs, saddles, gates, wheels, etc. ; puncture of the perineum, by palisading, by an earthenware vessel breaking under the sitter, etc. ; laceration, by pelvic fractures involving the urethra; and lastly, by the forcible introduction of urethral instruments. Covgenital stricture is occasionally met with, near the external meatus. In early life its existence is unattended by any inconvenience ; but in adult life it gives rise to serious obstruction of the passage of urine, when the urethral tissue has become less extensible. Consequences, and Terminations.—The course of stricture is very similar to that of chronic enlargement of the prostate. Ghrunic cystitis, or a state of the bladder bordering on it, commonly ensues from the habitual retention of urine and distension of the bladder. The characters of the urine are in accordance with that condition. The general health gradually declines, as the result of broken rest from ineffectually relieving the bladder, and of constitutional dis- turbance owing to the state of the organ, aggravated by occasional attacks of spasmodic retention; or the constitutional symptoms may be those of increasing nervous prostration with oft-repeated rigors, induced sometimes by each act of micturition, or simply by the use of an instrument; and rapid depression may supervene, either from ulceration or sloughing of the bladder, with recurring hsemorrhage, or from profuse purulent discharge. Uuptiire of the urethra is liable to occur, owing to dilatation and ulcerative opening of the canal im- mediately behind the stricture ; followed by extravasation of urine, with its attendant symptoms. This may happen at a more or less remote period. I have known extravasation occur in traumatic stricture, twenty-six years after the injury,—a fall on the perineum across a beam ; and also in stricture from gonorrhoea, five years previously. Rupture of the bladder is a very rare event. Both these consequences