582 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. wh^n%r'''°"f ^e^brane. This procedure is certainly requisite mtLnt "^^-brane thickened^ t S patient lying on his back and the legs trussed up as for lithotomv a fold of skm and mucous membrane, !t the side of the a"us and more Fm f according to the laxity of the part is • Tof.r'^ ^ vulsellumf or with Willcox's forceps (Fii mZ), drawn a little forward, and excised with a curved pair of scissors. This is repeated on the other side thus forming two oval wounds, longitudinally • and sometimes further portions may require removal.' Any bleeding arterial vessels should be twisted or tied • lest 1^1. haemorrhage occurring after the operation, bleeding mav I^^^JHI^ take place into the bowel and escape ohservation. Ligature was originally proposed by Mr. Copeland It is especially adapted for a condition of voluminous and lax mucous membrane—associated perhaps with internal haemorrhoids—but unaccompanied with any or much participation of the anal integument. The ope- ration is easily performed, by seizing with a vulsellum selected portions of the mucous membrane, and castincr a whipcord ligature around each ; cutting off the ends of thread, and returning the whole within the sphincter. Cauterization is usually effected by means of strong nitric acid, and this method of treatment was much advocated by Sir B. Brodie. It has since been employed in many cases. Mr. Ashton has applied the concen- trated acid with the "happiest result," and Mr. H. Smith has found it act like " a charm." There can be no doubt about the truth of these representations, quali- fied as they are by specification of the appropriate con- ditions of prolapsus. Nitric acid is suitable in the same condition as that fitted for ligature; but it is specially applicable ■when the mucous membrane is extremely vascular,—of an arterial character rather than venous, with a velvety appearance; or, again, when the surface has an unhealthy, ulcerated appearance. The°acid is applied by means of a glass brush; care being taken to protect the surrounding parts with thick oil or grease, and to dab away any excess of acid from the diseased surface. Stricture of the rectum has been known to ensue ; this result having occurred, according to Mr. Ailing- ham's experience, in several cases. Chloroform may be administered in any of these operations, not so much for its aneesthetic influence, as to relax the incessant action of the sphincter. Polypus of the Rectum.—Any growth springing from the mucous membrane of the rectum, and attached by a narrow and elongated pedicle, is named a polypus of the rectum. The tumour, thus charac- terized by its stalked shape, differs in structure from simple hyper- trophy of the mucous membrane, which is also occasionally peduncu- lated. Polypus-growth varies in structure and appearance, forming dif- ferent species, which have been variously named by authors on this subject. They may be described as—(1) the vascular polypus; (2) the villous, an extremely vascular growth; (3) the lohulated, also