98 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Any ligatures, or acupressure wires, when either are used, should be drawn out at the nearest angle of the wound, and gently held under the finger of the assistant in charge of the flaps. Sutures or stitches are employed to retain the edges in apposition. Commencing most ad- vantageously, for equal shaping of the stump, by introducing the first suture-needle in the middle of the stump, it should transfix either lip at about half an inch from the margin, so as to bring together a sufficient thickness of integument to support the flaps and induce primary adhesion. The thread is drawn through, and—as the assistant holds the integument together, tucking in any extruding fat or muscle, ■which, if allowed to intervene, would prevent primary union of the skin—the suture-thread is tied, without slipping, in a double knot, and the ends snipped off close to the wound. "Other sutures are introduced in like manner, on either side of the first; and as many as may be necessary—no more—to keep the flaps together throughout the line of union. At one or both angles of the wound, as may be convenient, the ligatures having been collected are pi-otected from disturbance by a small strip of plaster overlaying them. Strips of adhesive plaster are sometimes drawn around the end of the stump, in the intervals of the sutures, thus further supporting Fig. 534. the flaps, if bulky, and favouring adhesion. (Fig. 634.) The posi- tion of the stump for the free drainage of discharge, is also shown in the case I have here represented. A strip of lint soaked in carbolic acid solution, or smeared with spei'maceti ointment or carbolic oil, is laid along the whole length of the wound, and cross-strips, each about two inches wide, are applied, from the under to the upper surface of the whole stump, extending about six inches on either surface, and retained in position by a long and broad strip carried around their ends; lastly, a roller-bandage is ■ applied, so as also to encase the stump, but with a moderate degree of' pressure. This is done by first carrying the roller, in two or three turns, around the stump, over the circular strip of lint; then, an assistant grasping' the stump with both hands, above and beneath, the bandage is reflected from the middle of the upper surface, and carried downwards over the end of the stump to the under surface,, ■where it is reflected again, each turn being caught and held m posi- ■ tion on either surface by the fingers of the assistant; these cross-turns i are repeated all over the end of stump, in a radiating manner, so as to i form a complete case, and then the duplicatures on either surface are i secured by two or three circular turns of the bandage. Sometimes, a i hgemorrhagic tendency is evinced by oozing of blood ; the roller should then be applied more tightly for a time, or a compress of lint above andj below the flaps may be advisable as an additional support and security,, in putting up the stump. , , , -lux. On placing the patient recumbent in bed, the stump should be supported and elevated on a pillow, covered with a draw-sheet of mackintosh cloth, a cradle being used to remove the weight of the; bed-clothes. If there be no hemorrhage, the stump should be lett;