DISEASES OP THE FEMALE GENITAL OEGANS. 849 at first—become thickened and hardened, sometimes cracked, and exude a serous fluid, which drying on the parts, stiffens them the more; but this state is produced by the incessant scratching in vain to relieve the unbearable itching. This labial pruritus is mostly met with ill married women, during the turn of life; and it seems to proceed from some ovarian excitement, evinced by tenderness on pressure over one or other iliac region ; which is aggravated at the menstrual period, and accompanied with a rejuvenescence of morbid sexual desire, and perhaps leucorrhoea. Any local treatment to the part affected will rarely succeed; but blistering over the apparent source of irritation has, I have found, dispelled the torment from which the patient suffered. It is important to cure any complicating uterine disorder. Closure of the Labia, or of the Vagina.—As the result of slight malformation, it often happens that the Labia are adherent, leaving perhaps a pin-hole opening for the trickling escape of urine. This defect is usually discovered in infancy, when the adhesion can be easily separated. Treatment consists in simply running a probe between the labia, and then inserting a strip of oiled lint to prevent reunion. The cure is generally permanent. Atresia^ or even absence of the Vagina is occasionally met with. This condition is sometimes associated with absence or imperfect develop- ment of the uterus. In exploring to determine the exact condition of things, when there is apparent absence of the vagina, a sound should be passed into the bladder, and a finger into the rectum. The nature and amount of tissue between the bladder and the rectum can thus be determined, and by carrying the finger high up into the rectum, the uterus and ovaries, if present, can be felt., A vagina can be con- structed by a careful combination of incisions and stretchings, avoiding the urethra on the one hand, and the rectum on the other. This pro° • ceedmg is commonly best carried on at several sittings. Dr. Barnes : relates a case where impregnation took place after such restoration, land others in which the subjects married and did well. After the ' operation there is a great tendency to contraction. This is counter- 1 acted by wearing a Hodge pessary or a vaginal dilator for some 1 time. Closure of the Vagina, as the result of malformation or sometimes <ot adhesive inflammation in early life, is a defect less apt to attract I attention, and seldom discovered until the period of menstruation. -Amenorrhoea, or more correctly speaking, "occult menstruation" Ithen arises from accumulated retention of the menstrual secretion i his IS attended with a sense of bearing-down weight in the perineum 1 which suggest the necessity for an examination. Closure of the vagina imay also result from cicatrices following on sloughing from iniurv (during labour. o & j j Treatment here also, consists in opening the vagina, and tearing .asunder the adherent walls with the finger or the handle of a scalpel • jand then introducing a pledget of oiled lint, until the surfaces have mealed separately. Imperforate Eyvien is another occasion of occluded vagina. This cdefect also will probably remain undiscovered until publrty The • fT "^^^''^^^ fl^i'l at length causes distension voni imperforate and thickened hymen beyond the 3 I