SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 566 therefore, are most liable to such anal ulceration; owing to the proximity of tbe vaginal discharge, and the easily cracking nature of their perineal and anal integument. But not unfrequently either form of ulceration is connected with uterine displacements. Middle age is most subject to these affections. A sedentary occupation predisposes to fissure. Treatment.—In recent ulceration and of slight extent, a cure may sometimes be effected by stimulant applications, with anodyne sup- positories to allay pain; the bowels being well regulated by castor oil, or other gentle aperient, and scrupulous attention to cleanliness ob- served after any action of the bowels, or as to any other source of irritation. Accordingly, the ulcerated spot may be touched occasionally with stick nitrate of silver or a piece of sulphate of copper; and in fissured anus, the caustic must be run along within the crack so as to fairly touch the bottom of the angle. A weak lotion of sulphate of copper or zinc, acetate of lead, or the black mercurial wash, may also be sponged up, two or three times a day. An anodyne and astringent suppository is highly recommended by Mr. Erichsen, as very efficacious in this and many other painful affections of the anus. It consists of two grains of extract of belladonna, two grains of tbe acetate of lead, and four of tannin, made up to a proper consistence with a little suet. This should be passed into the rectum every night and allowed to dissolve there. I have found nothing so soothing, and apparently protective to the ulcer, as a suppository of simply pil. sapon. co., gr. x. The beneficial effect of these topical applications is to be estimated by the mitigation of pain, and by the ulcerated surface assuming a healthy, reddish, granulating appearance, and contracting. In old-standing and more extensive ulceration, operative interference is the only cure. The old precedure, originated by Boyer, was division of the sphincter ani, so as to set this muscle at rest, as by the operation for fistula in ano. Copeland proved that this deep cut is quite un- necessary; and that the more superficial incision, limited only to the mucous membrane, through the whole length of the sore, is equally curative. This section of the mucous membrane alone has since been advocated by Brodie, Syme, and Quain ; and it is now the established operation for the cure of ulcer of the rectum and fissure of the anus. The superficial muscular fibres of the sphincter must, however, neces- sarily be cut, when the ulcer has destroyed the whole thickness of the mucous membrane. Mr. Curling once noticed the fibres of the sphincter at the base of the sore, in which case they would be divided by any incision through the sore. Mr. Allingham's experience leads him to practise a somewhat deeper incision, not less than to the depth of a quarter of an inch, sufficient to secure the relaxation of the sphincter, and set the part entirely at rest; without, however, cutting as deep as in the old operation. The operation is easily done, when the anus is thoroughly opened by an assistant. The forefinger is introduced into the rectum, opposite the sore, and a probe-pointed bistoury slipped up sideways, and planted just above the ulcer or fissure ; the blade is then drawn down- wards and outwards steadily along the centre of the sore or iu the fissure, dividing the mucous membrane—the depth being about the eighth of an inch. This incision may advantageously extend into the sound texture, a little above and below the upper and lower end of