15 EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. saw. And tliis instrument may bo equally serviceable in other joint- excisions. If the tibial section were made from hehind the articular surface, and the femoral section also, as some Surgeons practise the operation, the popliteal parts would indeed be quite out of the way; but the ends of bone are thus apt to be detached from their vas- cular connections, and the femoral section, as made from the front, is perfectly free from any risk, while the tibial section can be safely made with the little precaution already observed in using the saw • towards the posterior ligament. But the liability of wounding the • popliteal artery, either with the knife or the saw, should not be over- looked, that accident having happened in at least two instances, one 1 of which was, however, a re-excision wherein the adjacent parts were somewhat affected by adhesion; yet, still to inculcate caution, ■ this accident happened in the hands of a most skilful and practised I operator. In the event of such a mishap, amputation must be per- formed forthwith. Excision of the joint may be performed in a hloch, : instead of by separate section, when the articular ends of bone are \ firmly anchylosed; the piece of bone cut out having a V shape, owing I to the projection of the knee forward from constant retraction of the Ueg. The parallel surfaces of bone, thus made in either way, lie in ; parallel apposition when the limb is extended. This is the most 1 important operative consideration with relation to the formation of tfirm osseous union. An obKque direction of either surface is most 1 unfavourable to this result; too much space intervening at one part I for the formation of an intermediate plate of bone, and the remainder < of the surfaces being tightly locked, the limb cannot be flatly ex- ttended; painful startings of the limb ensue from attrition of the 'Surfaces in contact, and no intermediate plate of bone can be pro- (duced. Thus, the union would be in part imperfect or hagmentous, : and in_ part incomplete or wanting. A second section must be made i from either end of bone, if necessary, to reach a healthy surface, or i gouging may be requisite; but the extent of bone excised should be 1 limited by the considerations already explained, and the surfaces must i always be finished off parallel. The patella is then removed, avoidino- t the making of a button-hole in the integumeut. Any thickened syno^ 1 vial membrane, often slate-coloured, may be dissected out. I do not ; approve of its destruction by any caustic solution, as some Suro-eons r recommend. Haemorrhage is easily arrested by torsion of the articular . arteries, or any other small bleeding vessels. In scrofulous caries little difficulty is experienced. In chronic synovitis the bleeding is s sometimes profuse, owing to the vascular and thickened state of the ^synovial membrane, and the bone remaining healthy and florid. But torsion, sponging with cold water, and exposure, wiU still prove suffi- V cient to stop the haemorrhage. It will be found injudicious to apply even a single ligature, which would thus leave a foreign body in the ; wound. I then extend the limb, and having seen that the ends of I bone he m even apposition—not absolute contact—a flat piece of - sponge IS Held m the wound while the splints are applied. The extended limb is laid on a padded back-spHnt covered with oil-silk .under the knee, this sphnt reaching from the fold of the nates to just .above the heel (Fig 485.) The foot-piece forms part of the latLal splint, as thus the heel escapes pressure and a consequent tendency to