SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Sprains.—The ligaments connecting the vertebrge, together with the muscles which lie in the vertebral groove on either side of the Kpmous processes, are liable to be overstretched and torn, sprained or ruptured Any such lesion will be more or less localized, according to the rigidity of the part injured, as in the dorsal region, or its elasticity ''^j'^,- . M^^""^'^^' o^l»°ibar regions,—where, the force being broken and distributed, the sprain will be more general. _ The symptoms are sudden and acute pain in the part affected, which IS elicited by pressure, or by any movement involving that parfc'of tlie spme. The patient, therefore, lies in the position which insures rest Swelling and ecchymosis may be well marked or scarcely perceptible • and the discolouration may not appear for some days after the injury' ihe diagnosis from fracture of the spine will be determined by the absence of any displacement in the vertebras, the line of the spinous processes being straight, and their points level. The pain on pressure is not limited, to the processes of one or two vertebrse, as in fracture ; and the patient can erect the spine, though with painful difficulty, but without presenting any deformity. The symptoms of sprain continue lor a longer or shorter period; a bad sprain in the loins lasting, perhaps, for a month or six weeks. Voluntary movement is gradualFy' attempted as the pain induced passes off, and this will be the surest sign of progressive recovery. The causes of spinal sprain are generally sucli occasions of violence as bend the column downwards and forwards, with a sudden and excessive depression. The force may be external, as by a heavy weight falling on the back when the lower limbs or the pelvis is fixed; the dorsal spine then acts as a long lever, the sacro-vertebral articula^ tion being the fulcrum, and the superincumbent weight on the trunk representing the force forwards. The lumbar spine is thus sprained. A similar effect may be produced by the weight of the trunk itself, as when a person falls or jumps from a height, and alights on his nates. The to-and-fro twisting of the spine resulting from a railway collision, may^ produce the most severe sprain. Violent muscular efforts may sprain some part of the spine, as in the endeavour to lift a heavy weight, or in pulling; or by a sudden wrench in the act of starting forward from impending danger. Complicatioyis, and Consequences.—Sprain in the lumbar region is not unfrequently complicated by hcemahiria, blood passing with the urine for several days after the accident. This arises from some lesion of one or both kidneys, owing to their contiguity to the lumbar spine. The quantity of blood lost varies. Generally, the urine has a deep red or brown colour, only for one or two days ; it becomes clear and florid on the third or fourth day ; and, in a day or two more, the urine resumes its natural appearance. Clots sometimes form in the bladder. Nephritis—inflammation of the kidney—is a rare consequence of this traumatic htematuria ; an immunity, in connection with injuries of the spine, which is unexceptional in the experience of Mr. Le Gros Clark. Previous disease of the kidneys will predispose to hasmaturia from comparatively slight injury to the lumbar spine; as when associated with renal calculus, or with the congestive, early stage of albuminuria. Hcemorrhage into the vertebral canal, with compression of the cord, and paralysis, is an occasional complication of spinal sprain. It will always be difficult or impossible to determine, by any differential symp-