28 Fig. 492. SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. more uncovered and an opening opposite the tibial ulcer Under tTe';"^? f rr°'' ^'-'^^ ^^^1^^- General health very good the patient fast regaining flesh and colour, with a bri^^ht eve and wX fi ^"^^ °f health sr' with farm fibrous anchylosis, in three months; limb put up in a bow nJn f ' 7""'. discharged from the Hospital. A tendency to bowing outwards of the knee was soon evinced; rectified by gradual manipulation, the imperfectly ossified callus admitting of such re- adjustment, and the starched bandage was re-applied. Parturition at tne ±ull period; the mother and child both having done weU. Firm osseous union. Permanent result known, six months. Case 11.—Harriet M , set. 16. Chronic synovitis of the left ^nee-joint, of traumatic origin,—by a fall, and many years afterwards by a puncture-wound with a crotchet-needle two inches in depth' penetrating the joint. Duration of disease, thirteen years from first mjury, six months from the second. Treatment commenced three years ago, continued for one year in a Metropolitan Hospital, then for some time in a special Hospital—where extension was long used without any permanent benefit. Partial ulceration of the articular cartilac^es of the lemur and tibia ; limited fibrous anchylosis, with retraction of the leg —the toes just touching the ground, and partial dislocation of the lemur forwards. Excision. Sickness after chloroform. Acute injlam- matory fever in twenty-four hours. Slight rigors on each of the two days following the operation. Third day, copious pink lithates deposit m urine, and subsidence of the fever. Sixth day, slight return of feverishness, and in the evening erythematous patches appeared on the arms, front of chest, and neck; face flushed. This subsided in twenty-four hours, under treatment by bicar- bonate of potash and tincture of hyoscyamus. Eleventh day, a gangrenous patch of shin, about the size of half a crown, in the middle line of the incision, which sloughed away in two days, exposing a portion of the femoral end of bone. All the sutures were now removed. Wound otherwise healthy, primary union taking place except in middle, and, as usual, at the angles. Ends of bone in perfect apposition. Sixteenth day, trismus, followed by full development of tetanus in twenty-four hours. At the end of thirty-six hours, death. Hydrate of chloral had been tried in ten-grain doses every hour. P.-M. examination of the joint — Union by tags of lymph, puriform fluid around ends of bone. Case 12.—William B , cet. 9. Chwiic synovitis of the left knee-joint, of traumatic origin, by a slight blow witb a hoop. Duration of disease, ten months. Treatment in two Metro- politan Hospitals; and then in the Royal Free Hospital—by strapping, etc. Discharged; re- admitted in a month; extension by a back-splint and screw, continued for five weeks without any effect. Partial ulceration of the articular