SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEllY. 898 himself again, able to assist his seemingly less fortunate fellow-travel- lers, and having thus occupied himself for some hours, he proceeds on his iourney. From that time, however, a general failure of nervous power is experienced, the sufferer feels that the spring and the go has been taken out of him bodily and mentally; he looks pallid, dejected, and older, broken in general health—a change which is more obvious iu a person of previously active habits. His friends remark, and he feels, that " he is not the man he was." Trying, perhaps, from time to time, to resume his avocations, he is compelled to lay by, and with rest, getting better, he tries again, only to fail, until he is at length fairly knocked up. But some weeks or even months may elapse before more definite symptoms become developed. They correspond, it may be presumed, with the second stage; that wherein the primary effects of general concussion are succeeded by the symptoms of chronic inflammation of the membranes, and of the substance of the spinal cord, with similar affection of the brain. Mr. Erichsen^ has carefully analyzed the symptoms presented, of which the following is a summary; premising that while all the symptoms may be manifested in the same case, they are not necessarily associated. Cerebral symptoms.—With a pallid, careworn expression of counte- nance, pain, giddiness, or some uneasy sensation in the head is com- plained of, or may be elicited by pressure on the crown, and by rotation of the head or movement backwards and forwards. The functions of the brain are defective or perverted. The memory is deficient, as with reo-ard to dates, words, figures. The thoughts are confused, the patient beino- unable to combine his thoughts in argument or reading, so that the latter effort is abandoned after a few minutes' attempt to read a book or paper. As a consequence of this impairment of memory, and inability to concentrate ideas, all business aptitude is lost. The temper undergoes some change for the worse, a calm and cheerful disposition often becoming peevish and desponding. Sleep is exchanged for wake- fulness, or disturbed by horrible and startling dreams. The special senses are variously impaired or perverted. Vision is defective, m rec^ard to focal distance and clearness, so that letters of print or writing run into each other. Double vision and squint are occasion- ally met with. Intolerance of light is often complained of; and black spots, or flashes of light, are constantly seen. One or both eyes may be affected. Searing may be over sensitive or dull; m the iormer state any sudden noise startles and distresses the patient. laste and smell are more rarely defective or perverted. Speech generally remains unaffected; but stammering or mumbhng occurs in some cases. Touch is often impaired, the patient being unable to pick up a pin or button his dress ; and the sense of weight is lost, a shilling or a sovereign on the point of the finger feeling of equal weight. Spinal symptoms.—The attitude referable to the state of the spine is peculiarly erect and stiff, in consequence of the pam occasioned by flexion forwards, backwards, or sideways, or by any attempt to rotate the trunk. This pain restrains any movement involving the verteorai column, as in stooping, or rising from the recumbent position, ifle vain is elicited on examination, by pressure or percussion, in the couree of the spinous process, or by the application of a hot sponge. /-^ some one, two, or three points, sensibility will be found increased, ihese are commonly the mid-dorsal, the dorso-lumbar, and the ceivical