SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 310 Permanent teeth may be wholly absent, this peculiarity being in- herited, as has happened in several recorded cases, and gong hand in hand with abnormal hair-development. In the case of the edentulous hairy man exhibited a few years since in London, the absence of per- manent teeth was accompanied by a cessation in the growth of the jaw, so that the man, in other dimensions bulky, had alveolar arches no larger than those of the child. Particular teeth, notably lateral incisors, may be absent, and this is sometimes a family characteristic; wisdom teeth also are not unfre- quently absent, or at all events do not erupt; but, although I am acquainted with many cases of inherited absence of lateral incisors, and with a few of bicuspids, I know of no case in which absence of the canines or of any true molar has been inherited. When a permanent tooth is absent, or does not erupt, the temporary tooth may remain and be serviceable through life ; it is consequently bad practice to remove it for no better reason than the hope that its absence may facilitate and accelerate the advent of its successor. On the other hand, there may be too many teeth. When the ad- ditional teeth are exact repetitions of some of the normal teeth, they are called " supplemental; " when they are more or less irregular and stunted, or excessively large and shapeless, they are called "super- numerary." Supernumerary teeth are almost always to be extracted; supple- mental teeth only if they interfere with the regularity of the normal teeth, and little difficulty will usually attend their removal, aa their roots are generally single and disproportionately small. ^ Dentigerous Cysts.—A certain portion of the jaw-bones—the alveolar portion—is developed in subserviency to, and wholly devoted to the lodgment of, the teeth. When they fail to take their places in this their appropriate home, they appear to sometimes act as sources of irritation, and to cause inflammation or necrosis of the surrounding bone; or this latter becomes the seat of a painless enlargement, which, when opened up, is found to be a cyst with fluid contents, and a more or less perfect tooth or teeth in it. The tooth may be a perfect tooth, in no Fig. 686. respect abnormal, save that it has failed to get into its appropriate place. Such are the teeth in M. Maisonneuve's case (figured in Heath's "Diseases of Jaws," 2nd ed.,p. 168), and in Mr. Cartwright's specimen of calci- fied dentigerous cyst in the antrum here figured (Fig. 686), or in Professor Baume's case (quoted by Moon, Bryant's " Surgery," 2nd ed., p. 540), in which both antra were enormously distended, the one containing a molar, the other a canine. On the other hand, the development of the tooth may have proceeded no further than the for- mation of a perfect crown without roots; or the process of tooth-development may have been altogether disturbed, and the place of a single tooth be taken by a large number (in one case eight and twenty, besides others which were lost) of detached denticles.