DISEASE OF THE SPINE. 403 •f were • the ribs being compressed, and the sternum projectmg, or Lmetiraes bent at an obtuse angle as a sort of counterpoise to the Lsterior protuberance. The shape of the thorax is altered, its antero- posterior diameter being increased and the vertical decreased. This ■ shortening of the trunk gives a pot-bellied appearance to the abdomen; the whole trunk seeming to have fallen down in a lump. (Fig. 733.) The viscera, thoracic and abdominal, also undergo compression; but, Fig. 733.* Fig. 73-i:.t accommodating tliemselves to their re- spective cavities, they do not sufier ap- parently in their structure or functions. The aorta, still following the course of .... the spine, bends with it at the seat of curvature. Earely is the spinal cord compressed or otkerwise injured (Fig. 734) ; sometimes, it becomes softened at the angle of curvature, and paralysis of the parts supplied below ensues. Signs and Symptoms; and Diagtiosis.—Disease of the spme com- mences with a sense of weakness in the back; the patient feels some inability to stand upright, and, leaning forwards, rests his hands on his knees, or avails himself of any other temporary support. This sign is never absent, and it is rendered equivocal only by its connection also with hysteria affecting the spine. A slight prominence soon appears in some portion of the spine, usually in the dorsal region, and this point is tender or painful when pressed or tapped with the fingers; the patient wincing when pressure falls on it in passing down the line of the spinal column. But pain is a very inexact symptom. It may be entirely absent with marked angular deformity ; and present, severely * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., E. Sl\ § Ibid., E. 6. Double caries, or in two parts, of the spinal column; in the cervico-dorsal region, and in the mid-dorsal region. In the upper seat of disease, the bodies of the last four cervical and those of the upper two dorsal vertebrae, with their inter-vertebral cartilages, are more or less destroyed. In the lower gap, the whole body of the sixth and part of the fifth and seventh dorsal vertebraj have been destroyed. Abscess has formed in both seats of disease, under the anterior common ligament: there is more or less double angular curvature, and compres- sion of the spinal cord. The aorta corresponds to the displacement of the column. Ossific union of several of the dorsal spines seems to resist any further cxcurvation.