484 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. nerye-filamentg to the skin over the gland, and to the gland itself and ^eSonr" Tht"' °f neighbouring fXTv.; T^"""' '^'^'"^ °^ ^^'^ ^^'i its source of supplf ^i«L ^^y^^^^l system, is clearly exhibited in the folloS diagrammatic scheme of innervation, by Mr. Birkett — ^ Cervical Plkxus. Posterior filaments of 4, 5, 6, unite with posterior branches of superior dorsal. CO Anterior branches of 4, 5,'6 (?) supply skin over breast and unite with— 2. Also, skin inside of arm and axilla. 3. Also, skin of acromion, axilla, and arm. 4. Also, skin over scapula. 5. Same. Breast, and / skin over it. V 1^ o a o O t) p It shonld be read thus:—The breast and superimposed skin are supplied by filaments from the anterior branches of the 4th and 5th cervical nerves. Filaments from the posterior branches of the same nerves join with others from the superior dorsal nerves. Filaments from the middle and anterior intercostal branches of the anterior division of the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th nerves of the dorsal plexus supply the breast and skin over it chiefly. A minute examination demonstrates the association between the 2nd intercostal and filaments supplying the skin of the inside of the arm and axilla; also the same parts, and the skin about the shoulder from the 3rd; and the skin about the scapula from the 4th and 5th. These nervous intercom- munications explain the widely extended pain of which patients so grievously complain when affected with mammary hypercesthesia. Arteries and Veins.~The 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th intercostal branches of the internal mammary artery usually supply blood to the sternal segment of the breast; within the axillary portion, a large branch from the axillary artery commonly ramifies ; and the inferior and lateral regions receive a few branches from the intercostal arteries which accom- pany the nerves through the middle intercostal foramina. The veins accompany the arteries and terminate in the internal mammary and axillary trunks. The subcutaneous veins around the areola are arranged in the form of a circle,—the circulus venosus areola of Haller. The superficial veins, ramifying over the breast, are often dilated, and present a blue, open network. Lymphatic FesseZs.—The superficial lymphatics pass through the axillary, the cervical, and anterior mediastinal glands; a deeper series pass over and beneath the pectoralis major muscle to the glands under the clavicle.