DISEASES OF THE LARYNX. 87T have to be removed in fragments with cutting-forceps. A firm touch or two with nitrate of silver or with the galvano-caustic will usually suffice to destroy the base, and to arrest any farther hasmorrhage. The two alae of the cartilages must then be brought evenly together ■with silver sutures, and the edges of the integumental incision are readily held in apposition by means of adhesive strips. Tbyrotomy was originally suggested by Desault towards the end of the last century; but the operation was first performed by Brauers, of Louvain, in 1833 ; some years- afterwards by Ehrmann, of Strasburg; and afterwards by Gurdon Buck, of New York. Since the introduction of laryngoscopy, the operation has been more generally practised both in America and on the continent. The merits of this operation have been the subject of discussion between Mr. Durham and myself,—Mr. Durham urging the propriety of this operation as an " earlier, bolder, and more ready resource," for the removal of laryngeal growths ; whilst I would restrict the operation to "extreme cases," where life is im- perilled by dyspnoea or dysphagia. My conclusions rest upon a careful analysis of the results of forty-eight cases of thyrotomy—including thirty-seven on which rehance had been placed "to justify and en- courage " the more frequent resource to this operative procedure. Thus, in relation to danger to life, omitting all cases which survived more than a few weeks, there were four deaths directly referable to the thyrotomy—a mortality of 8'38 per cent. With regard to respira- tion, the results have been far from encouraging—fifteen out of the forty-eight cases having been compelled to wear a tracheal tube. As to the vocal effects, in 77'77 per cent, the voice was lost or modified; in only 22"22 per cent, was it restored. Lastly, reproduction or in- complete removal of the laryngeal growth occurred in 38"46 per cent, of the non-malignant cases. These unfavourable results are more than supported in a very able statistical work recently published by Dr. Paul Bruns.* This author's analytical comparisons of the results of treatment by each method are based on an examination of more than 100 cases of thyrotomy and over 1000 cases treated by endo-laryngeal methods. Dr. Brans re- marks t as follows : " I gladly join in Mackenzie's judgment (' Brit. Med. Jour.,' 1873), who only sanctions the operation ' when there is danger to life from suffocation or dysphagia, and then only after an experienced laryngoscopist has pronounced it impossible to remove the growth per vias naturales'—only I would prefer to say, 'if he has tried this method in vain.' For, as we have seen, even an experienced laryngoscopist is very rarely able to say that the endo-laryngeal method has no chance of success, as, even under the most unfavour- able conditions, complete success has been obtained." Application of Topical 'Remedies to the Larynx.—The most satisfac- tory method of treating laryngeal affections, when of an inflammatory character, is by the direct application of suitable remedies to the affected parts. This is best done by means of squirrel's or camel's hair pencils, which may be cut square at the end, if the application is to be freely made, or pointed, if only a small spot is to be touched. The pencils should be firmly attached to, and fixed in, a convenient * " Die Laryngotonne zur Entfernung intralaryngealcr NeubilduuKen." Hksch- wald: Berlin, 1878. t Ibid., p. 1&7. . -