CONTUSION OF- THE BRAIN. 169 1 session will be followed by sligbt reaction, extreme depression 11 be sncceeded by extreme reaction, and this would be aggra- vated by over-stimulation previously. In this stage of reaction, in- terference should be regulated by its degree, as often bordering on inflammation. An elevated position, with cold lotion to the head, shaved for its application, are the best safeguards. A reduced diet and abstinence from stimulants, coupled with the administration of o-entle watery aperients, will effectually keep the circulation m check. ■ luy tendency to relapse must be watched at the same time, and pre- 1 vented by recurrence to stimulating treatment. Absolute rest and the withdrawal of all surrounding circumstances of excitement are imperatively necessary to recovery. A quiet life . should then be led for some time; and, if possible, the patient con- 1 tinue under medical supervision. It was justly remarked by_ Liston . _a paraphrase of the maxim of Hippocrates—that "no injury ot the head is too trivial to be despised, or too serious to be despaired of " ' The treatment of Intra-cranial Extravasation, and of Inflammation and its consequences, as arising from Concussion, will be considered ■ under the general headings,—Compression, and Traumatic Inflamma- : tion of the Brain. . j; it, -u ■ Contusion of the Brain.—Bruising and laceration ot the bram- substance is associated with contusion, but it may be the most promi- nent form of lesion. Consisting of spots of extravasated blood and disintegrated brain-substance, these are commonly clustered together in welf-marked, circumscribed patches, or occasionally scattered and diffused throughout various parts of the cerebral mass. _ In the one form of contusion, the grey substance alone is affected; in the other form, the white substance also. The situation of contusion may be either at the spot where the skull was struck—direct contusion, or distant from the seat of vio- lence—contusion by contre-Goup. The middle and anterior lobes, and especially their under surface, are more frequently bruised than the posterior lobes. . The symptoms are unconsciousness more or less complete, without stertorous breathing ; tonic spasms of the limbs ; and a restless rolling and tossing about in bed. But these symptoms are not immediate, and therefore not necessarily dependent on contusion. This kind of lesion has no symptoms of its own. They have been said to denote " cerebral irritation," as a primary form of cerebral disturbance arising from injury. But the symptoms are not only of subsequent origin, they are also not peculiar. I have seen precisely the same symptoms connected with an abscess in the right posterior lobe of the braui. Treatment—apart from that for concussion—must have regard to the absorption of extravasated blood, and the prevention of inflamma- tion. Hence the efficacy of cold applications to the head, by means of an ice-bag or evaporating lotion, and the derivative or depletory action of purgatives; these measures being aided sometimes by the general or local abstraction of blood, followed by blistering to the back of the neck. Mercury may be administered in the event of inflammatory symptoms, and opium to quiet delirious excitement; but usually the cachectic condition of chronic inflammation necessitates recourse to a gently stimulating and supporting plan of treatment.