219 TREATMENT OF CATARACT. A small fleam-shaped cystitome is introduced, and the capsule and substance of the softened lens are broken up. Lastly, a scoop is passed into the pulpy mass, and pressed against tlie margin of the wound so as to make it gape, whereby the lens-matter escapes along the groove of the instrument. Soft cataract is the only condition of cataract suitable for the linear operation. The advantages of this method are principally two : the linear incision is less gaping, and it heals more readily than the curvi- i linear flap-wound, the edges of which do not remain in such even L coaptation; so that there is less risk of prolapsus of the iris. Scoop-jExtraction—a modification of linear extraction—was also de- 1 vised by Graefe (1859). It is applicable in that condition of soft _ cataract where, with partial softening, the operator finds a firm and large-sized nucleus, the extraction of which would otherwise be s attended with injurious pressure on the iris, and might leave frag- T ments of lens-matter behind the iris as a source of dangerous irritation. 1 Hence the use of a scoop for traction of the nucleus, through a wound 1 less gaping, and with more perfect coaptation, than a flap-wound, in I both ways still preventing the liability to prolapsus iridis, which is of ( common occurrence after that operation. Scoop-extraction is per- i formed in the following manner:—If the patient be restless, chloroform : may be administered, considering the little liability to any escape of \ vitreous humour—the corneal wound being small, and extraction s accomplished without any pressure on the eyeball. A spring speculum i is introduced to keep the lids 1 well apart and expose the globe, 1 which is then fixed in position I by nipping up with fine forceps ; a fold of ocular conjunctiva be- 1 low the cornea. A lance-shaped ■ knife, or Sichel's extraction-knife, ; is then entered at the upper i edge of the cornea, close to its ; junction with the sclerotic, and ; the blade earned upwards so as t to make an incision of sufficient I length for a considerable iridec- : tomy. Passing a fine forceps into t the wound, a portion of the iris IS seized, drawn out, and excised. The cystitome is then introduced, a and the anterior capsule lacerated. ' Lastly, the scoop, or Oritchett's -spoon or "vectis," is gently in- ^ sinuated behind the upper margin of the nucleus, and curved round until the end of the instrument is 1 just beyond the lower margin— observing, in thus passing the - scoop, not to incline the poijit so ' far backwards as to penetrate the vitreous humour. The scoop, fairly holding the nucleus, is gently drawn out of the wound, bringing with it that body. Pulpy lens- FiG. 624.