SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 824 Erichsen. Having separated the vas deferens from the veins, a small incision is made, about half an inch long, in the front and back of the scrotum ; then a needle, armed with silver wire, is passed between the vas and the veins, so as to be brought out behind, and the needle returned in front of the veins; thus these vessels are included in a loop of wire, without ijnplicating the scrotum. The loop is then tightly- twisted, whereby the enclosed veins are constricted. By repeated tightenings, the wire gradually effects a passage by ulceration through the veins, which are obliterated by the same process. Or, Mr. John Wood's spring-tractor may be used for constricting the veins. (2.) Subcutaneous twisting and compressio7i of the spermatic veins.— "Vidal de Cassis' method consists in passing an iron pin between the vas deferens and the veins, thus transfixing a portion of the scrotum, as in the previous methods of operation ; but the pin is provided with an aperture at either end, and now a needle, carrying a silver wire, is passed in at the point of entrance of the pin, and over the veins, emerging at the other puncture; then, either end of the wire is threaded through the corresponding aperture of the pin, and this rod is twisted round and round, whereby the wire is coiled, and the veins also rolled up and firmly compressed in the loop between the pin and the wire. Two needles may be used in this method ; the one taking the place of the wire, being made to twist round the other. (3). Gompression by two Pins, and intermediate subcutaneous division of the Veins.—This mode of obliterating the spermatic veins is the same as that for varicose veins in the leg—according to Lee's method. The operation is performed in precisely the same way (Fig. 956) ; care being taken to exclude the vas deferens, which is easily recognized by its round, firm, whipcord character. One or more pins were used for compression, without subcutaneous division of the veius, in Davat's method of operation; and as since practised by Velpeau, Jobert, Liston, Fergusson, and some other Surgeons. These operative procedures have been variable in their results. Great relief or a cure has been effected in several instances; and I have been accustomed to practise the last-named operation, by the former method, with a fair propor- tion of success. On the other hand, no good has been produced, the operation proving abortive; or only a temporary cure has resulted, the varicocele returning at no dis- tant period. Diffuse inflammation and sloughing of the scrotum, and even suppuration of the testicle, or phlebitis, pyemia, and death, have been known to follow the operation. Pytemic infection is, I believe, more likely to happen, when the veins are subjected to ligature, twist, or compression, at a single point; but when applied at two points, the intermediate portion of the veins is shut off, and thus excluded from any commu- FiG, 956.