SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 24 tinuity was restored by fibrous union; at the same time cicatrization dipping down from the surrounding skin, completely closed the lar.re opening. _ Jl^ventually, the cicatrix became level, and movable; while ossihc union slowly took place. The result was one of the best-looking and most successful excisions that could be desired. The prohahility of amputation becoming necessary after knee-joint excision, is a question that may be gathered from the collections of results which I have brought forward, and which show also the mor- tality, in addition to the proportion of deaths arising from the opera- tion of excision. Of the 7 cases alluded to in Mr. Butcher's report as having been subjected to amputation after excision had apparently 1 ailed, 6 recovered rapidly, and only 1 died. In my own cases, of 12 knee-joint excisions, 3, including the 1 re-excision case, were submitted to amputation, and all made rapid recoveries. Compared with ininnarij amputation of the thigh for disease of the knee-joint, these results as to tbe mortality are most gi-atifying, and without at once sacrificing the limb, which might yet be preserved by excision. Thus, in addition to the statistics already quoted, the mortality of primary amputation formerly at St. George's Hospital, as practised for "abscess" and "ulceration of the articular cartilages," was most melancholy. Of 11 such amputations of the thigh at that Hospital, as reported in the Medical Times and Gazette (1856), 5, or nearly 50 per cent., of the patients died, while 1 of the remaining 6 was convalescent only on the sixty-second day. Typical Cases of Knee-Joint Excision.—In proceeding to record the essential particulars of some of my own knee-joint cases, it seems desirable to take them separately from the records of previous experi- ence, in order to represent them from two points of view;—firstly, as supplying typical illustrations of the conditions of disease, local and constitutional, which are appropriate for excision, and the results, proximate and permanent, of operation in each case, together with any peculiarities ; secondly, the cases are submitted to analysis with re- ference to these and other questions of importance pertaining to ex- cision of the knee-joint for disease. Two of the cases were partly narrated in the Hospital Reports of the Lancet of 1860; the remaining ten cases I have abridged from clinical notes carefully taken by Mr. T. C. Murphy, formerly senior house-surgeon at the Royal Free Hospital. The first four cases especially illustrate the conditions of disease which are most suitable for excision of the knee-joint, during the course of disease ; in three other cases, 7, 8, and 9, as from failure of the natural cure, both in regard to the kind of anchylosis and by malposition of the limb. The remaining five cases—belonging either to the former or to the latter class—are interesting more particularly as exhibiting peculiarities or complications : in one case, albuminuria; in another case, a very early period of life; in another, pregnancy at the time of excision, but safe parturition at the full period, with a living, healthy child, and the mother's limb having undergone firm osseous union ; in another, accidental detachment of the tibial epi- pliysis in the operation; in another, acute tetanus and death. Case 1.—Elizabeth D , vet. 33; admitted into the Royal Free Hospital on the 12th of September, 1859. Chronic syiiovitis of the right knee-joint, of traumatic origin (Fig. 488); duration of disease, six