FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. 529 of the parts iu cases after death following the operation, I am con- vinced that the principal seat of stricture is the base or sharp margin of Gimbernat's ligament; the bowel having been deeply indented so as to exactly correspond with this structure, when the two were replaced in apposition. Thickened bands of fascia propria, situated about half an inch below the crural ring, across the neck of the sac, may also be an occa- sion of stricture; so as to constrict and indent the neck. This was noticed by Sir A. Cooper, and it is specially adverted to by Mr. Luke. Varieties of femoral hernia, characterized by the course of the sac, may be here noticed, as being rare and curious. Le Grendre describes four such varieties :—(1.) Grural hernia, in front of, or external to, the femoral vessels; instances of which are described by Cloquet, Hesselbach, Stanley, and Partridge. (2.) Pectineal crural hernia.— The hernia, as soon as it traverses the crural ring, passes directly internal to and behind the femoral vessels, and rests on the pecti- neus muscle, the aponeurosis of which may form an envelope to it. This is sometimes denominated Cloquet's hernia, he having first described it. Callisen, Vidal (de Cassis), Richet, Le Gendre, and Mr. J. Adams have recorded similar cases. (3.) Grural heryiia, through Gimhernafs ligament.—This variety is situate internal to the femoral vessels, but it passes directly through the resisting Gimbernat's liga- ment. It is the hernia of Langier, who first noticed it; and Cruveil- hier, Demeaux, Nuhn, and Le Gendre have also dissected cases of this kind. (4.) Grural hernia, with a diverticuhom through the cribriform fascia.—The hernia traverses several openings in the cribriform fascia, and thus forms several distinct lobes, which give it a very charac- teristic appearance. This is the hernia of Hesselbach, who first de- scribed and figured it; and Le Gendre and Malgaigne have also dissected examples. (5.) Grural hernia, ivith a diverticulum through the superficial fascia.—A variety in which the hernia, having escaped beneath Poupart's ligament and traversed the cribriform fascia, sends one or more prolongations through the superficial fascia. It is the hernia of Sir A. Cooper, and Le Gendre has furnished a dissection and drawing of such protrusion. Signs, and Diagnosis.—The tumour of femoral hernia presents certain distinctive characters. It is situated below Poupart's ligament by about half an inch or the length of the crural canal, and to the inner side of the femoral vessels, but external to the spinous process of the pubes. These relations have reference to the nec7c of the tumour, and femoral hernia may thus be distinguished from inguinal, whether this be a bubonocele or scrotal hernia. At first the swelling is generally of small size,—not larger perhaps than a Spanish nut or walnut; but it may soon increase to the size of an orange, and rarely attains to much larger dimensions, although it seldom acquires the size of inguinal hernia. The shape of the tumour is tolerably rounded, and it extends upwards to Poupart's ligament, assuming a transversely elongated form; rarely, it overlaps the femoral vessels externally, and passes downwards upon the thigh. (Fig. 811.) In point of consistence, the hernial tumour will of course vary with the contents of the sac, as to the pre.sence of intestine, omentum, or both,—an entero-epiplocele; and the quantity of serous fluid in the sac will also affect its tension ' But the size of the protrusion also renders it harder or softer; a small hernia, VOL. II. 2 M '