SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 536 aperture—to tlie inner side of the first perforation; and the point made to pass tlirough Poupart's Ugament directly above, and close to the curved border of Gimbernat's ligament, including a portion of its fibres. Drawing the skin inwards until the needle can be pushed through the same puncture before made, and which is already occu- pied by one end of the wire, the opposite end is hooked on to the needle and drawn back with it, when that end also is disengaged. The two ends of the wire are now twisted down into the incision, and cut off about six iuches from the twist. The loop which emerges at the ■upper puncture is then twisted firmly down in it, pressing down before it that portion of Poupart's ligament opposite the crural opening, which is included in its grasp. A roller of lint, or a boxwood or glass compress of cylindrical form, is applied and kept in position by the ends of wire drawn over it, with pledgets of lint on each side; and over all, a spica-bandage. By this operation, that part of the tendinous overrides the neck of the sac is drawn backwards that it may become adherent to the pubic portion of the fascia lata included in the suture. In a large hernia, the sac and its coverings would be transfixed, and embraced in the suture; in a small hernia, the serous sac might easily be returned into the abdomen, and its ten- crural arch which and downwards, so dinous investments united altogether be, that the invaginated fascial and Fig. 815.* external to it. The result misrbt sac coverings would become ad- herent on all sides, under the combined influence of ulcera- tion, traction, and pressure; and thus forming a consolidated mass, filling up the area of the crural ring, a radical cure might be accomplished. Its perma- nency would require the test of time. Certain parts, contiguous to the operation, should be care- fully avoided; the femoral vein, —by interposing the finger be- tween it and the needle during the passage of that instrument; the bowel, the epigastric artery, and in the male, the spermatic cord,—by not pushing the needle too far into the abdomi- nnl cavity. Irreducible Hernia.—Crural epiplocele very often becomes irreducible, but enterocele in this state is equally rare. The tumour may attain to large di- mensions, equalling in size a large scrotal hernia, and losing the appear- ance of femoral hernia. (Fig. 815.) No other treatment can be pur- sued than to support and protect the hernial protrusion by a truss Avith a hollow pad; and this whether it be epiplocele or enterocele. * Eoyal Free Hospital. (Author.)