7G3 ORGANIC STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. amount of induration, may be thus severally determined ; and whether also there be one or more strictures. Instruments of various compo- sition and form are used for this purpose : catheters, which may be inflexible, as the ordinary silver instrument, or flexi- ble, as gum-catheters; and bougies, which are solid Fig. 917. instruments of flexible metal, or flexible and more or less elastic, as the ordinary gum-elastic bougie, wax or catgut bougies. Catheters may be curved or straight. The former shape is generally applic- able ; and the curve most commonly suitable is that which corresponds most nearly with the bend of the urethra at its inner third—an arch rather less than one-fourth of the circumference of a circle three inches and a quarter in diameter. Straight instruments are preferable for strictures in the ante-scrotal portion of the urethra. The probe- 23ointed steel stricture-staff, such as that used in perineal section, affords the surest indication as to the situation of stricture in the course of the ure- thra ; the shoulder of the instrument being arrested by the constriction, its anterior limit is thus de- clared. At the same time, on passing the linger into the rectum, the narrow portion of the staff can be felt to have passed through the stricture at the membranous urethra. The catheter, or bougie olivaire (Fig. 917) possesses two advantages—a bulbous or spear-headed end, and flexibility; it can therefore be insinuated, or passed with a screw-like action, into a tight stricture, and readily takes the course of an irregular urethra, without causing a false passage, pain, haemorrhage, spasm, or rigors. This instru- ment, invented by Lioutt and originally advocated by Mr. Teevan, in this country, is now much used. The bougie a boule, having a conical-shaped ex- tremity, is another flexible and elastic instrument of much use in the diagnosis of stricture. The introduction of a catheter may be performed in either of two ways : in the recumbent position, and with the curve of the instru- ment directed upwards ; or in a standing position, and with the curve of the instrument looking downwards. Of these two methods, the former is usually more easy and convenient both to the patient and Surgeon. The patient lying down on his back, with the shoulders a little raised, the legs thrown easily apart and slightly drawn up, an instrument of appropriate size—No. 7 or 8—is selected, and warmed by a httle friction up the sleeve for a few seconds, and then oiled or smeared with lard. In introducing it, the handle should be held lio-htly between the thumb and the fore and middle fingers of the right hand the concavity of the curve looking upwards towards the left groin of the patient and the direction of the instrument being nearly horizontal. , B-aismg the end of the penis with the thumb and finger ot the lett hand, so as to draw it up to its full length, the doubl e curve passage, somewhat resembling an italic S, is thus of the urethral changed into one curve, commencing from just in front of the scrot am: