SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 422 The symptoms of spina bifida are obvious. A round or oval tumour varying in size from a walnut to a child's head ; lobulated occasionally! Of hard, but elastic consistence, fluctuation is obscure. These charac- ters are most marked when the infant is placed upright, softness and fluctuation becoming perceptible in the horizontal position of the ti'unk. The tumour subsides also somewhat on pressure, but its tension is alternately increased and diminished by expiration and inspiration. Paralysis and wasting of the lower limbs I have also seeu well marked in one case, and involuntary defecation. The course of this malformation is uncertain, varying principally according to the size of the tumour. If the sac be stnall and remain stationary, it may not shorten life. A large sac generally has a fatal termination ; death occurs from convulsions, or, inflammation and ulcer- ation of the integuments taking place, spinal meningitis supervenes. Treatment.—This also, guided by the probable course of the tumour, will depend on its size. A small sac, with, healthy integuments, is best left alone ; tbe patient wearing a soft pad over the tumour, simply as a further protective covering. A larger-sized sac, and with the integu- ments in the same healthy state, may be restrained by a compress and bandage ; an india-rubber air-pad affords the most uniform and elastic support. Increasing tension can be relieved by puncture as occasion requires, and pressure should then be reapplied. Extirpation has been resorted to successfully; but this procedure, or indeed any operative interference for removal of the sac, is always more perilous than the tumour itself. THE THOEAX. CHAPTER LIU. INJURIES OP THE THORACIC PARIETES, AND ORGANS. Injuries of the cbest are common accidents in Civil Practice, while they form a very important section of Military Surgei-y. The chief practical distinctions of these injuries are as follow. Wounds of the Parietes of the Chest.—These lesions, not penetrating ■^tbe thoracic cavity, present nothing peculiar in their pathology and treatment. Rest of the injured part will be best secured by means of a broad rib-bandage, thus restricting the breathing to aisdominal respiration, as in the treatment of fractured ribs or sternum. This appliance must be removed if tbe restraint prove distressing to the patient. Injuries involving the Thoracic Organs.—Whatever part of the thoracic parietes be injured—the ribs or sternum; and whatever in- ternal organ be implicated—the lung, heart, or great vessels; certain symptoms are common to these injuries, coupled with special symptoms according to the situation of the injury .as implicating a corresponding internal organ. . ... Causes—Fracture is the most frecLuent form of thoracic injury m