SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. X " Croup in its Relations to Tracheotomy." Philadelphia. 1874. the rmgs of tlie trachea, and perhaps even the bifurcation of bronchi below it can be seen with perfect distinctness The vi.w varies, indifferent cases, between these two extremes." (fL 714 71^ Treatment of Laryngeal AvmcTio^s.-Laryngitu is t? be met hv the ordinary treatment of inflammation, promptly applied ; in itracutl form, the inhalation of soothing vapours such as thp L Woini (Throat Hospital Pharmacopoeia^, is L^'dflocal dep S by means of leeches may also be applied, and a good purgative should be administered. Diaphoretics will also tend to cut short^the progrest ot the affection. In the oedematous variety, if the swelling of th« raucous membrane is sufficiently great to impede respiration, scarifi! cation with a guarded knife must be resorted to. If the dyspncea in creases, and suffocation becomes imminent, tracheotomy must bo performed without delay. Chronic laryngitis is principally amenable to topical treatment. The best applications for this form of disease are Fig. 716. * solutions of chloride of zinc (gr. xx., ad. ^i.), perchloride of iron ad ) or glycerine of tannin. These remedies may be applied with brushes ot suitable forms, or with the laryngeal syringe (Fig. 716), of which ibb s is one of the best. The nitrate of silver is only to be used when an actual destructive process is going on. Croup, or laryngeal diphtheria, is an acute disease attended with the formation of a false membrane, which is deposited upon the ex- posed surface of the mucous membrane. The question of tracheotomy is often raised in connection with this affection. Liston, and many of the most experienced Surgeons of recently passed generations, were of opinion that the tracheal false membrane rendered the operation useless ; whereas Professor Spence, with an unusually large experience of ninety-one cases, affirms that the obstruction and irritation arising from the presence of this membrane justify recourse to tracheotomy without delay, whenever all remedies have been actively tried in vain an opinion which has been strongly confirmed by the important statistical tables of Kronlein,t and the interesting work of Solis Cohen.+ Both these authors, indeed, go further, and agree with Trousseau and other continental observers, who recommend the operation to be done in the first stage, or early in the second stage of croup, before the blood- poisoning and the exhaustion of the patient have become too great to enable him to rally from the shock of the operation. The result of operation is, on the whole, very encouraging. In Spence's ninety-one cases, the mortality after the operation was seventy- seven per cent., whilst in Kronlein's recently published statistics "it was seventy per cent. This is a large proportion, considering that surgical interference was the only chance of saving life. * Dr. Duncan Gibh's laryngeal syringe. t Langenbeck's " Arcliiv." bd. xxi., heft ii.