531 FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. neio-hboarliood of tlie crui'al ring, and associated with hernia, or exist- ino- alone. The fluctuation on pressure, with persistence of the swelling and its invariable size, will mainly determine the nature of the case. Venous dilatation, or a varix, may occur at the saphenous opening. Any such enlargement is reducible like hernia, bnt pressure above will cause the swelling to be reproduced. The characters of varix are also marked, as to the thrill and murmur, and the varicose enlargement of the vein below the crural tumour. Enlarged crural lymphatic glands may be distinguished from hernia, by the aggregated character of the swelling, its persistence on pressure, and by the absence of any impulse on coughing. The history of the case will also be corroborative. An omental hernia, presenting a somewhat irregular swelling, and having an obscure impulse, most nearly resembles an enlargement of these glands ; but they may then be distinguished by the mobility of the tumour, which can be drawn away, or lifted up from the crural ring. A single enlarged gland, situated over or in the ring, offers the most difficult diagnosis. But although the little glandular swelling may be tender or painful, the symptoms of strangulation do not ensue. Fatty tumour, of small size, and situated in the crural canal, has occa- sionally been met with. It closely simulates hernia. The soft and doughy character of this growth contrasts with the tense consistence of crural hernia, similarly placed; the irreducible character of the swelling, and the absence of impulse on coughing, are also distinctive. The coexistence of any femoral tumour or swelling with femoral hernia renders the diagnosis more or less difficult. And especially if the hernia be of small size, and concealed by the tumour. Thus, enlarged and suppurating femoral glands, overlying a small hernial protrusion, may simulate strangulation. But the main points of dis- tinction are the history of such enlargement, with the coexistence of any cause of lymphatic irritation; coupled with the absence of consti- pation and vomiting. Treatment.—This must have reference to the state of the hernia; as reducible, irreducible, or strangulated. Reducible femoral hernia must be treated in the usual ma.nner; the protrusion returned by taxis into the abdomen, under the influence of chloroform, and a proper truss applied, and worn, over the crural aper- ture. The direction in which manipulative compression should be made is specially important. Remembering the course of femoral hernia, a fully developed protrusion should be returned by gentle pressure, downwards from Poupai-t's ligament, in order that it may turn the sharp upper corner of the falciform border of the saphenous opening, then directly backwards as if into the thigh, and upwards, through the crural canal. In short, the hernia is unfolded as it were, and made to retrace its course into the abdomen. During this manipulative pro- ceeding, the Surgeon should avail himself of a relaxed state of the saphenous opening, by flexing and rotating the thigh inwards. The size of the truss-pad should vary with the degree of laxity of the part, and chiefly as regards Poupart's ligament. A small, convex pad will generally prove sufficient support; but a lax state of the liga- ment will require a larger and flatter pad. Femoral Trusses.—Three principal forms of femoral truss have been devised, which are thus described by Mr. Bigg. AH possess the ordi- naiy steel spring pelvic belt. (1.) The spring is curved downwards, so