SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. The Period of life has, of course, some influence, favourable or unfavourable, relative to the results of operation. But either extreme operfteroVr P%'" '"2 ^^^'-^l^^ youngest and the oldest patient operated on by Professor Spence,—an infant between eight and nine months old, and a woman aged ninety-eight years, both recovered. h,eLative mortality of Strangulated IlernicB.—ln 127 cases (Spence) — No. Recovered. 46 ... 38 ... 8 77 ... 60 ... 17 4 ... 3 ... 1 127 101 26 (1.) Inguinal (2.) Femoral (3.) Umbilical and ventral _ It tbns appears that the proportionate mortality was —(Y) nearlv 1 m 6; (2) between 1 in 4 and 5; (3) 1 in 4. But this estimate is subject to two sources of inaccuracy: the obvious difPerence in the number of cases compared, and the unknown periods of strangulation prior to operation. *^ Artificial Anus.—This condition is said to exist whenever an aper- ture forms, or is made, in the intestine, through which its contents escape externally. The state of the bowel is, usually, gangrenous • whereby it may have yielded in the sac before operation, or afterwards' although returned mto the abdomen; or it may be purposely laid open m the operation, to allow of the escapes of fgeces when that issue is inevitable._ A healthy portion of intestine may, however, be accidentally wounded, m the course of operation, or by a penetrating wound of the abdomen. Rarely, a f^cal opening results from ulceration of the intestine, involving the abdominal wall. Artificial anus occurs most frequently m the inguinal, scrotal, and femoral regions; and in con- nection with the small intestine. The kind of discharge will depend on the part of the gut opened, and its quantity on the size of the aperture. But digestion is more or less imperfect; hence the nutrition and general health of the person becomes impaired. Generally, an artificial anus forms after operation,—the bowel having been returned into the abdomen. The probability of its occurrence will depend very much on the advanced state of gangrene, short of sphacelus, in which case the bowel would not have been returned. But the state of gangrene itself depends principally on the tightness of the stricture to which the bowel has been subjected, as well as the duration of the strangulation. The deeply constricted appearance of the strangulated part will indicate the probabihty of sphacelus supervening,—and thence of artificial anus. Commencing at a variable period, after operation,—some hours only, or a few days, perhaps even some weeks,—the wound reopens, at least in part, and' the dressings are seen to be soiled with feculent matter, while the opening emits a gangrenous feecal odour. The discharge increases, and becomes continuous, until an artificial anus is established. Artificial anus differs according to the extent of aperture ; either as a sloughing perforation in the bowel, or sloughing of the entire cir- cumference of the canal. Sloughing perforation usually takes place about the centre of the convex free border of the knuckle of intestine,— at a point most distant from the mouth of the sac ; a small ulcerated opening is produced, which does not interfere with the continuity of