SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 120 adaptation and union tlierewitli by also removing the under surface and head of this bone. This operation, therefore, bears the same relation to sub-astragaloid amputation, that PirogolT's operation does to Syme's amputation at the ankle-joint. As an improvement on sub-astragaloid amputation, Hancock's amputation provides a more advantageous stump, in two essential points ; namely, the length of the limb, and the amount of leverage afforded by the astragalus for the artificial foot, and the consequent effects upon the movements of the ankle-joint. This operation would seem to be suitable for disease or injury involv- ing the tarsal bones, excepting the astragalus, and when limited to the anterior portion of the os calcis. It was originally performed by Mr. Hancock in the winter of 1864-65, and in the only case, so far as I know, in this or any other country ; the case was one of scrofulous dis- ease, which presented the requisite conditions for this amputation. The result was perfectly successful; complete union taking place between the section of the os calcis and astragalus, and the patient having a most useful stump. He was exhibited at the Royal College of Surgeons, in June, 1866, one year and a half after the operation; when, among many other observers, I had the opportunity of examin- ing the permanency of this result. The particulars, therefore, of the original operation possess some historical interest; and as illustrating the plan and performance of an amputation not hitherto described in Surgical works, I shall here introduce Mr. Hancock's description :—" I commenced an incision beneath and at the posterior angle of the external malleolus, and carried it forwards along the outer border of the foot to a point about half an inch anterior to the projecting base of the fifth metatarsal bone. I then made a second incision along the inner border of the foot, commencing posteriorly about the centre and beneath the internal malleolus, and terminating anteriorly at a spot corresponding to the termination of the external incision; and then united the two by a third and semilunar incision, carried with its convexity directed towards the toes, across the front of the sole of the foot well down to the bones. Reflecting this flap back as far as the projections on the under surface, and in front of the tuberosity of the os calcis, I carried a fourth incision across the dorsum of the foot, immediately behind the head of the astragalus. Then, applying a saw upon the under surface of the os calcis as far back as I could, I cut through the bone obliquely from below upwards and backwards. Next, resuming the knife, I entered the medio-tarsal articulation, and, pass- ing the instrument under the head of the astragalus, and cutting from before backwards, in the direction of the anterior articulating surface on the os calcis, divided the interosseous ligament, and detached the front of the foot. I then sawed off the head of the astragalus, and with a pair of bone-cutters, curved on the flat, removed the two articular cartilages on the under surface of this bone, and securing the two plantar arteries, thus completed the operation. The flaps were brought together by three wire sutures in front, the lower angles of the wound being left open. IS'o suppuration ensued in the course of the tendons, no secondary hsemorrhage, nor any constitutional disturbance." Results.—Amputation at the ankle-joint admits of the usual coni- parison as performed for disease or injury. Thus, for disease, m seventy-six cases, the mortality was only five; whereas, for injury, in