STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. 587 Fig. 845* suppositories. Constipation often remains, even after dilatation of the stricture; but as tlie result of loss of power in the distended bowel above the seat of obstruction, tbe action of tbe bowel wiU perhaps be restored bj tonics, and oleaginous enemata ; or it may be preferable to administer castor oil in small doses daily, or a lenitive electuary of senna and sulphur, thus to obtain a regular soft evacuation. Cod-liver oil seems to be laxative as well as nutritious ; and in any case, the diet should be carefully regulated, to avoid any accumulation of hard, in- dio-estible food. But, however temporarily successful dilatation may prove, a permanent cure is seldom if ever effected. Dupuytren, Bushe, and Dr. CoUes, of Dublin, emphatically concur in the same opinion; Mr. Curling takes a more favourable view of this plan of treatment. Undoubtedly much wiU depend on having to deal with fibrous stricture in an early stage of its formation, and in prolonging the course of dilatation for some weeks or months after apparent cure. Palliative treatment affords relief to the pain and discharge. Nitrate of silver, in the proportion of five grains to the ounce of dis- tilled water, or the mild citrine ointment, may be applied with advantage to the diseased mucous membrane within the stricture, by means of a camel's-hair brush passed through an anal specu- lum. Hgemorrhage may be restrained by cold water, solution of alum, or other styptic injec- tion, administered through a long tube. Plug- ging the rectum will be necessary, in the event of any serious or persistent haemorrhage, such as would be consequent on forcible dilatation. In extreme cases, of almost complete obstruc- tion, Amussat's operation of colotomy must be resorted to. (2.) Gancerous Stricture.—The coats of the rectum are liable to the formation of every spe- cies of cancer—scirrhous, encephaloid, colloid, and epithelial; resulting severally in stricture of the bowel. Any such growth forming external to the rectum may so press upon and implicate the bowel, as to have the same effect. The disease is usually situated at the lower part of the rectum, within three inches from the anus (Fig. 846); less frequently, at the junction of the sigmoid flexure of the colon; but any por- tion of the bowel may be affected. Symptoms.—Commencing insidiously, the early or mechanical symptoms of obstruction are similar to those arising from fibrous stricture. But the excruciating pain, its lancinating character, dart- ing up the sacrum and extending down the limbs, the aggravated intensity of the pain, as of molten lead, when the faeces pass, and especially when ulceration has supervened, with the increased tendency to haemorrhage, and copious, fetid, purulent discharge;—these symp- toms are more or less diagnostic of cancerous stricture. Subsequently, the peculiar cachectic appearance and emaciation are distinctive consti- ♦ Eoy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 1266a. Scirrhous cancer of the rectum,—section of the bowel, showing great thickeaing of its coats, and stricture of the canal. (Professor Tartridge.)