SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 672 purulent discharge, and the suffering incident to this hasmorrhoidal affection. The hiBmorrhoidal flux, or discharge of blood from internal piles, depends on a determination of blood to the rectum ; whereby also the piles progressively increase in size or grow, as often as it recurs. This afflux of blood and discharge may be periodical, occurring monthly, or at intervals of two, three, or six months; and it may be remittent or intermittent. It continues usually from three to six days, increasing in quantity up to the third or fourth day, and then lessening. Women usually suffer more from piles at the catamenial period; and the flux is coincident chiefly with the time of the menstrual flow, or it may be compensatory for a deficient discharge from the uterus. GompUcations.—Piles are frequently associated with other diseases of, or affecting, the rectum ; such as prolapsus, fistula, or fissure; they are also connected with diseases of the urinary organs, as enlargement of the prostate, stone in the bladder, and stricture of the urethra; and with diseases of the uterus. In relation to both the latter classes of diseases, as pertaining to the bladder and uterus, haemorrhoids are the result of the vascular communication of these organs with the rectum, principally through the hasmorrhoidal veins. This connection is most direct between the prostate and rectum ; and the straining efforts to relieve the bladder in diseases of this gland, or with stone or stricture, will necessarily dilate and engorge the hemorrhoidal veins. In thus enumerating the more important complications of hemorrhoidal affec- tions, I exclude the causative conditions of disease, as of the liver or other organs, in their relation to portal congestion. Diagnosis.—Internal Piles must be distinguished from prolapsus of the rectum, occarring alone, from polypi of the bowel, and from con- dylomata about the anus. Prolapsus in the form of a rugous flap of mucous membrane, on either side of the anus, is most liable to be mis- taken for protruded piles. But the semilunar form of tliese flaps, the extent of their base, the gliding feeling of the folded membrane between the thumb and finger, and the absence of erection and haamor- rhage, are all diagnostic signs. In polypus, its pedunculated character, large size, incapability of erection or collapse, pale-red colour, and slight disposition to bleed, will be sufficiently distinctive of every species of this growth. Moreover, mucous polypus has a very soft spongy feel; and fibrous polypus, a solid and firm consistence. Con- dylomata are readily distinguished from piles, by their flat-shaped, soft, and mucous character, or their warty appearance; and their occurrence in other parts, as the scrotum or vulva. Ga^ises.—All the causes of hemorrhoidal affections operate by pro- ducing congestion of the hasmorrhoidal veins, chiefly by obstructing or retarding the portal circulation, and thence the return of blood from the rectum ; or by inducing a determination of blood to that part. The structure of the hemorrhoidal veins, as being unprovided with valves to break the weight of the column of blood, the large size and tortuous course of these vessels, and the formation of a close plexus of intercommunicating veins, constitute an hydraulic arrangement which predisposes to a slow circulation of the blood around the lower part of the rectum. So also the thin and yielding character of the mucous membrane overlying the veins, and of the anal cutaneous integument below, forms a structural condition favourable to the production of