567 H/EMORRHOIDS, EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL. the ulcer or fissure. A tliin strip of oiled lint should be laid in the wound and retained for a day or two. An overhanging external pile may be snipped off with scissors; or a mucous or fibrous polypus, within the bowel, should be removed in like manner. Double fissure must be operated on in the same way as a single crack. The only preparation for this simple proceeding is tborough evacu- ation of the bowels beforehand ; and the only after-treatment requisite is an opiate, to lessen pain and prevent any action of the bowels, followed by a dose of castor oil in two or three days. The relief afforded by section of the mucous membrane is almost instantaneous, and the patient feeding well, daily regains health and spirits. In the course of two or three weeks, the wound will probably have healed. A slow-healing wound may be advantageously touched with nitrate of silver, and the administration of the confection of black pepper has apparently a beneficial influence. The result of this superficial opera- ! tion is usually a permanent cure, and with no evil consequences ; whereas deep section or division of the sphincter ani muscle is some- times followed by loss of retentive power and involuntary defgecation. I have known a patient, in this condition after operation, pass a motion on coming into the consulting-room ; the contents of the bowel slipping away from him in the mere act of walking or standing. Ulceration of the Ilecttim may be met with above the internal sphincter, extending up the bowel to three or four inches, or even involving the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The mucous membrane is re- moved in parts, exposing the muscular coat in the form of deep patches of ulceration ; perhaps the intermediate portioas of mucous membrane become detached, leaving only bridges or mere bridles between the ulcers; and, these remnants at length disappearing, the intei'ior of the bowel is laid bare to a variable extent. In point of depth, the ulcera- tion may be accompanied with thickening of the submucous tissue, or hypertrophy of the muscular coat, resulting in contraction or stricture of the bowel; but, not unfi'equently, perforation takes place with fatal extravasation of feculent matter; or if this result be prevented by adhesive peritonitis of the intestine or omentum, abscesses form around the bowel, and open externally by fistulous passages. The symptoms of this rectal ulceration are insidious, but not peculiar. There is some tendency to griping diarrhoea, with a dis- charge,—muco-purulent, slimy, or tinged with blood; unattended, however, with much pain, unless the ulceration has extended down- wards within the sphincter ani. The disease simulates dysenteric diarrhoea. Examination per rectum will show the nature of the case. Any assignable cause is often obscure. The ulceration may pro- ceed from the irritation of impacted faeces, or abrasion from an enema- syringe ; but more often it has a syphilitic or scrofulous origin, and there are other concurrent symptoms of either disease. Treatment must of course have reference to the particular cause of ulceration, whether that be local or constitutional. In the event of contraction sufficient to obstruct the passage of fteces, colotomy may be expedient; and should the ulceration have extended within the grasp of the sphincter, that muscle must be divided to relieve pain and promote cicatrization. HiEMORRHOIDS—EXTERNAL—INTERNAL, WITH PROLAPSUS OF THE ReC- TUM.—Haemorrhoids, commonly called Piles, are essentially an enlarge-