596 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. touching the edges with the actual cautery; or, if the opening he large, the edges must be pared and brought together by sutures. After either procedure, the bowels should be kept at rest by opiates, for several days, until closure has taken place. Recto-j^ermeaZ communication, as the third variety of imperforate anus, has also been treated successfully by both modes of operation. Enlargement of the original outlet is performed by an incision towards the coccyx, and the application of sutures. The results of this pro- cedure were quite satisfactory in two cases operated on by M. Goyrand; one a male infant, six months old, in whom, at the age of sixteen years, defsecation was free and the power of retention complete, even when the motions were lax; the other a female, aged eleven months. Equally satisfactory results have been obtained by Mr. Gowlland and by Mr. Carling, in a male and a female infant respectively. The formation of a new anus at the natural site has proved successful in the hands of M. Guillon and others. But enlargement of the original outlet will be preferable in all cases where the opening is sufficiently near the site of the natural anus; this is generally the condition in the female, and sometimes in the male. When, however, the opening is situated beneath the penis, or in the scrotal raphe, the other operative procedure must be resorted to. The general result of unrelieved and long-continued rectal obstruc- tion is well shown in a case of imperforate anus with recto-vaginal fistula, operated on by Mr. Lane; the child being four and a half years old. The bowel was opened at the anus, and the septum between the two apertures was divided. Death ensued in twenty-three days. The ■continual strain upon the rectum had produced distension to a size almost incredible; the rectum and sigmoid flexure of the colon formed an immense reservoir capable of holding five pints of fluid, which occupied the pelvis, the hypogastric, both iliac, and part of the um- bilical regions, displacing the viscera upwards and diminishing the cavity of the thorax. Functional Disoedbes of the Rectum and Anus. Under this head may be conveniently noticed certain functional disorders, which are unaccompanied with any apparent structural con- dition of disease of the part affected, whether the Rectum or Anus. Such are Atony of the Rectum ; Irritable Rectum or Sphincter; Neuralgia of the Rectum, or of the Anus ; Pruritus Ani. Atony of the Rectum.—In paraplegia the retentive powers of the rectum and of the sphincter are both lost; but the tonic muscular power of the rectum may itself be deficient, rendering the bowel incapable of thoroughly expelling its contents. Fiscal accumulations are apt to form. This occurs in habitual rectal constipation; a state in which the fseces are transmitted through the colon into the rectum, but there lodge. Besides the ordinary symptoms of constipation, there is also a sense of fulness and weight in the rectum, and severe bearing-down pains occasionally. A mucous discharge, resulting fi'oni constant irritation, may bring away a little feculent matter from the surface of the mass, and simulate diarrhoDa. The cause of this atonic condition is usually the too frequent and