670 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. or may not, bo attended with pain or other symptoms of nephritic irri- tation. Frequently it remains quiescent and unsuspected when lodged in this dilated portion of the ureter. (Fig- 872.) It may there attain a large size and remarkably irregular shape, being moulded to the pelvis and calicos of the ureter within the hilus of the kidney. Ab- sorption of the kidney-substance results from the continued pressure, and this is attended with pain in the lumbar region and symptoms of nepbritis. In rare cases, abscess has been known to ensue and the stone be discharged througb an aperture in the loin. A small stone in the pelvis of the kidney usually descends through the ureter into the bladder; it gradually increases in size, as a vesical calculus, by accumulating concretion on its surface. The descent or passage of a renal calculus is accompanied with more or less severe pain and constitutional disturbance, according to tbe size and shape of the stone. A small, smooth stone may descend without occasioning any notable suffering. A larger-sized and rough stone, as a mulberry calculus, descends with much difficulty and causes proportionate agony. After perhaps some symptoms of nephritic irritation, the patient is seized with sudden and excruciating pain in the loin, extending down the course of the spermatic cord to the testicle, which is often retracted, and down the thighs. This agony may, as it is said, " double the patient up," and make him roll on the ground, vainly seeking and imploring relief. It is worse to bear, and to witness, than the pain in passing a gall-stone. Bloody urine, vesical irritability, and frequent micturition, with vomiting and constitutional irritation, are the additional symptoms of a descending renal calculus, and which simulate acute nephritis. But the consti- tutional disturbance is not febrile, the pulse remaining comparatively unaffected. These symptoms continue, with occasional remissions, from generally twelve to twenty-four hours,—the usual period occu- pied by the descent of a renal calculus ; when, on its entering the bladder, all the symptoms suddenly cease. This origin, character, and termination of the symptoms determine the diagnosis. Sometimes, the calculus remains impacted in the ureter, and symptoms of pyelitis supervene. When the stone has become vesical, and is lodged in the bladder, the symptoms of stone in the bladder begin. Treatment.—Only palliative measures are available. Opium is the most efficacious anodyne for assuaging the nephralgic pain, and the patient can be kept under its influence during the whole period of passing the stone. Chloroform may, however, be administered with advantage, from time to time, as a relaxant. The warm bath is also a most serviceable adjunct. Cupping in the loins, followed by warm fomentations, may afford some relief. The bowels should be thoroughly emptied by mild oleaginous enemata, and diluent drinks freely allowed. Stone in the Bladder.—Symptoms.—A stone, loose in the cavity of the bladder, falls into the most dependent part, behind the pro- state ; but it shifts about according to the varying posture of the patient. The symptoms produced arise from the mechanical irritation and the obstruction caused by the stone as a foreign body in the bladder. They are always essentially the same in kind, though morti- fied in degree in different cases, and may be comprised under tour heads : pain, chiefly in the glans penis ; irritability of the bladder witli increased frequency of micturition; obstruction occasionally to tlie