154 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 597.* extravasation of blood in the diploe of the skull, or between the bone and dura mater (Fig. 597); or into the cavity of the arachnoid ; or beneath the arachnoid and in the pia mater ; or into the substance, and ventricles of the brain. No certain relation exists be- tween these elfects and the extent of depres- sion. Hence also the want of any certain correspondence between the symptoms of compression and the depression; those symp- toms being slight, perbaps, with consider- able depression, and severe with slight depression. The source of haemorrhage varies. Extra- vasation between the bone and dura mater may proceed from the small vessels passing from one to the other, or from some of the large vessels lodged in the grooves on the inner surface of the skull. The former extravasations—ob- serves Mr. Hewett—are, generally, of small size; but the latter may be very extensive, widely separating the membrane from the bone over the greater part of one side of the skull. The middle meningeal artery is the source of these large extravasations, in the majority of cases. (Fig. 598.) It was so in twenty-seven out of thirty-one cases. One of the large venous sinuses may be the source of extravasation, and Fig. 598.t Fig. 599.x the lateral sinus more commonly than any other sinus. The longitudinal sinus was in- volved in the case from which the specimen is here shown. (Fig. 599.) The situation of extravasation from the middle meningeal artery is usually regarded as the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone; but extensive extravasations may arise from this vessel, or some of its branches, over nearly the whole of the * Royal Free Hospital. t St. George's Hospital, Mus., 1, 248. Depressed fracture of right parietal bone, of circular shape, and about the size of a crown-piece, encroaching on the squamo-parietal suture. The depressed portion, in the form of three angular pieces, two of which are attached circumferentially, was attended with compression of the brain to the depth of half an inch. At the P.-M., a large abscess was foimd excavating the outer part of the middle lobe, reaching from the surface to the wall of the ventricle, and from the base to withiu half an inch of the roof of the hemisphere. X St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 3. Extensive fracture of the frontal bone on the right side, and involving, apparently, the longitudinal sinus. Removal of depressed portion of bone, by trephine and Hoy's saw. The skull is that of a young subject.