79 EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT, FOR INJURY. at the London Hospital, under the care of Mr. J. Hutchinson ; another, at the General Hospital, Birmingham, under Mr. Crompton; and M. Spillmann has collected the history of thirteen cases of knee-joint excision in Civil practice, for gunshot injury, with only three deaths. On the other hand, under, probably, the less favourable circumstances of Military practice, the operation has been deadly. Of twenty-one such cases, collected by M. Spillmann, nineteen were fatal. During the Crimean War, the returns of excision show only one case of excision of the knee-joint, and with a fatal issue. In the American War, the report from the Surgeon-General's department presents in a tabulated form 770 terminated cases of gunshot wounds of the knee-joint; in eleven cases of excision, only two recovered, or a mortality of 90 per cent.; whilst the mortality from amputation was far lower,—73"43 per cent., though still a very melancholy record. Free incisions into the joint seem to have succeeded little better than excision. The results of the operation, as collected by M. Peniere, are very impressive. In Civil practice, of seven cases, there were four recoveries and three deaths, or 1 in 2^; whereas, in Military practice, of twenty cases, three only recovered and seventeen died,—an overwhelming mortality. All these cases are taken almost exclusively from foreign sources. It would appear, therefore, that while excision of the knee-joint for injury may be less successful than the average minimum success of the operation for disease, the mortality in Military pi^actice is so excessive, as to suggest the propriety of there abandoning the operation in favour of amputation of the thigh. Author's Collection. (1.) Great Northern Hospital; period, five years, 1870. (Per Mr. J. Willis.) Number of cases, 2 : recoveries, 2. (2.) St. Thomas's Hospital; period, 1866-70. (Per Mr. P. Churchill.) Number of cases, 1 : deaths, 1. (3.) Royal Free Hospital; period, five years, 1870. Number of cases, 1: re- coveries, 1. (4.) Eoyal Infirmary, Edinburgh; period, five years, 1870. (Per Mr. P. H. Watson.) Number of cases, 1; deaths, 1. (5.) Chalmers' Hospital, Edinburgh; period, six years, 1870. (Per Mr. P. H Watson.) Number of cases, 1: deaths, 1. (6.) Guy's Hospital; St. Bartholomew's Hospital; London Hospital; West- minster Hospital; St. Mary's Hospital; Charing Cross Hospital; King's ' College Hospital; Liverpool Eoyal Infirmary ; Eoyal Albert Hospital, Devonport; Eoyal Sea- Bathing Infirmary, Margate ; period, each five years, 1870. No cases. Excision of the Hip-joint, for Injury.—This operation, like that for the knee-joint on account of injury, relates more to Military than to Civil practice. It was first performed, as reported by Oppenheim, at the battle of Eski-Arna-Utlar, between the Russians and Turks on the 5th of May, 1829. The injury was that of a gunshot wound of'the hip, with fracture of the head and neck of the femur and of the upper edge of the cotyloid cavity; the soft parts being little injured, and the nerves and large vessels untouched. Death took place after the seven- teenth day, apparently, however, from fright. The operation was advocated by Guthrie ; and practised during the Crimean War, both m the Enghsh and French Hospitals. Conditions of Injury appropriate for Excision.—O..) Compound acetabulum ""^^^^ ^^''^ ^"^^ V^^^^V^ involving the