SELECTION OF OPERATION—LITHOTOMY OR LITHOTRITY. 711 36 cases subjected to lithotomy; of wliich Civiale lost 18, or exactly one-half. The conditions which determine the fitness or applicability of litho- trity are :—(1) The state of the urinary organs, and of the bladder and kidneys in. particular; (2) the general health of the patient, and as connectfed with age ; (B) the nature of the calculus—as to size, density, shape, situation, and number. When the bladder is healthy, and the kidneys free from disease, especially with regard to albuminous urine; the general health not deteriorated, and the stone small and friable; all the conditions concur in favour of lithotrity. The opposite conditions are, of course, un- favourable in a greater or lesser degree. (1.) The conditions of the urinary organs relate to the bladder, kid- neys, prostate, and urethra. As more or less unfavourable may be mentioned—an irritable or inflammatory state or tendency of the bladder, or an atonic state, or an hypertrophied bladder of diminished capacity. The latter state is not unfrequently associated with extreme irritability of the bladder, thus further contracting its cavity. Chronic cystitis, and especially of a purulent character, is a more unfavourable condition for operation than acute cystitis ; which is also comparatively rare. But the significance of cystitis in relation to lithotrity depends very much upon whether the former be the cause or the effect of cal- culous formation. A stone consequent on cystitis is usually phosphatic, and being therefore soft and friable, it yields readily to the lithotrite. Diseases of the kidneys of a nephritic or degenerative character, attended with morbid states of the urine, are specially unfavourable. Hence, casts of the uriniferous tubes or blood in the urine, and the appearance of albumen to any amount, as persistent albuminuria, contra- indicate the performance of lithotrity. Enlargement of the prostate is in itself only a mechanical objection to the operation; the stone often being lodged in a depression behind the enlarged gland, and not easily acces- sible to the lithotrite. Enlargement of the middle lobe more especially diminishes the capacity of the bladder, deepens its floor, and tends to conceal the stone in a cavity behind the gland. But an enlarged state of the prostate is often associated with an unhealthy state of the bladder, and occurs mostly in advanced life. Tumours in the bladder may offer considerable mechanical difficulty to lithotrity ; but, accord- ing to Civiale's experience, the operation will be justifiable when the tumour is small, not very sensitive, nor liable to bleed, and the stone small and friable so that the completion of lithotrity is not likely to be prolonged by an unusual number of sittings. Stricture of the urethra, or an irritable state of the passage, will obstruct the intro- duction of the lithotrite and retard the discharge of detritus. (2.) The conditions of the general health which are unfavourable for Hthotrity cannot be clearly defined; they comprise chiefly a de- ranged state of the digestive organs, with loss of flesh and■ strength, nervous depression, and recurring febrile attacks. But in the 184 cases operated on by Sir H. Thompson, " many " of the patients were of " very feeble health and constitution." Age is significant, in its relation to the accompanying state of the bladder and the health of the patient. In children, the diameter of the urethra is small; the antero-posterior diameter of the bladder is short; the organ is irritable, and its neck is very dilatable, a peculiarity