832 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. testicle from hydrocele. The painless character of the tumour, and absence of constitutional symptoms, with the slow rate of growth, may determine the diagnosis with regard to encephaloid cancer of the testicle. But the distinction between cystic-growth and non-trans- parent hydrocele, hajmatocele, and cancer, cannot sometimes be arrived at with certainty, except by the aid of puncture to examine the natur(; of the fluid yielded, and at several points of the tumour. Cystic testicle is most frequent between twenty and fifty. No particular cause can be assigned for the production of this disease, otherwise than it seems occasionally to be consequent on injury to the testicle, as a blow or squeeze. Treatment.—Castration is the only cure ; and it may be resorted to at an early period, especially when the other testicle is healthy and functionally efficient. As in the case of other double organs, the remaining testicle will probably acquire the power of doing double duty. The disease never returns, a thera- FiB. 962.* peutically important distinction as compared with Cancer. Cartilaginous Ch'oivth, or Enclwndroma, is often associated with Cystic Tumour. The cartilage usually exists in the form of nodules (Fig. 962), set in a fibrous matrix, or which grow from and occupy the interior of the cysts; as a cartilaginous variety of pro- liferous cysts. These nodules are sometimes strung together into lines ; as if the cysts had foi'med by sacculated dilatations of the seminal tubes of the testis or its rete, in accordance with Curling's interpretation of cystic testicle. The carti- laginous structure may undergo calcification or ossification. ° This structural admixture of cartilage, or of its transformation, with cysts, modifies the signs of cystic tumour of the testicle, by giving hardness and weight to the mass. But any such complication in no way contra-indicates the treatment by castration, nor afEects the success of its result. • , z-i m Gancer-Growtli is not unfreqnently associated with Cystic iumour; this growth also taking place from the interior of the cysts, as a can- cerous variety of proliferous cysts. The kind of cancer is encephaloid, and it forms in some parts of the tumour, leaving the remainder simply cystic; but ultimately perhaps invading the whole mass. The signs of cystic testicle are modified accordingly ; and although the treatment must still be castration, yet the result of the operation, as to a return of the disease, will be uncertain. Eydatid cysts are said to have occurred in cases recorded by Sir A. Cooper, Dupuytren, and Larrey. But the accuracy of such cases may be doubted. . . , ^- ^^ x Dermoid cysts, of congenital origin, have unquestionably been met with in some instances; the cysts containing sebaceous matter, hair, teeth, and other foetal constituents, located in the testis and scrotum. The tumour presented by any of these abnormal cyst-£ormation9 * Roy Coll Surg. Mus., 2384. Encliondroma, or cartilaginous tumour of the testicle; section, showing projecting coral reef-like masses of cartilage, set lu a fibrous matrix. A few cysts beset the tumour, (bir A. Cooper.) • i