294 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tion are equally notable. The features disappear as tlie ulcer extends • the nose and mouth may fall into one cavity and the eye drop down from the orbit, exposing the back of the pharynx, nares, antrum, and interior of the orbit, in one large, irregular, and carious-bottomed ex- cavation; which completely disguises any recognition of the individual face, or even obliterates its form as that of the human visage. Such a result had taken place in a poor woman, who, if I remember rightly, was found on a door-step one night, many years since; and a wax-model of whose horribly remnant face is deposited in the Museum of the University College, London. The treatment of this form of Ulcer is noticed under Lupus. Chloride of zinc in paste, well applied to the excavation, is far more effectually curative than excision. This I once saw in a case treated by Mr. Listen, and similar results were obtained by Mr. Moore, in two cases. In one of these, the surface was known to have remained perfectly healthy two years and a half afterwards; although the disease had destroyed the greater part of the contents of the right orbit, the eyelids and skin in the neighbourhood. Oancrum oris.—Another form of corroding ulcer, a phagedseno-gan- grenous ulceration affecting the inner surface of the cheek and lip. Commencing, usually, with a brawny, tense, shining swelling of the cheek, the corresponding interior of the cheek soon presents a deeply excavated, round ulcer, having a brown, pulpy, sloughy surface. Dif- fering somewhat from this typical condition of the disease, it may commence, in its most rapid form, as a black gangrenous spot, unac- companied by any surrounding inflammatory swelling; or, in a milder forni than usual, it presents a shallow, ash-coloured ulcer, situated on the inside of the lip, more often the lower one, and extending to the cheek. This latter form of the ulceration seems to have a diphtheritic character. The disease may extend considerably; the excavated ulcer inside the cheek perforating and opening in the form of a circular, dark-coloured, gangrenous cavity, communicating with the mouth. The gums are turgid and spongy; while a foetid saliva and putrescent discharge dribbles from the lips. Comparatively little pain attends the process of destruction; but the constitutional exhaustion is often fatal, and the patient sinks in a comatose state. The cause of cancrum oris is general debility; resulting from poor living, among the ill-fed and otherwise destitute children of large towns, who are chiefly affected. Or the disease may be a consequence of one of the eruptive fevers, as measles or scarlatina, or any other severely reducing illness; and, occasionally, it has followed the prolonged ad- ministration of mercury. The feeble, wan, abject aspect of the poor little victim will be readily associated with the characteristic appear- ance of the buccal or labial ulceration. Treatment.—Local applications must be employed to arrest the dis- ease, and correct the foetid, self-poisoning discharge. Hence, the nitrate of silver should be freely applied, or the strong nitric acid will probably be necessary; and the mouth should be syringed with chlorinated solu- tions. But the constitutional treatment is most curative; and quinine and ammonia, the latter not pushed to its depressing effect, with wine, beef-tea, and other nutritious food, are the most efficient measures. Chlorate of potash, in large doses, is said to have an almost specially