155 FRACTURES OF THE VAULT OP THE SKULL. lateral surface of the skull. So also, with, fracture of the base of the skull, extravasations from this source are common. Intra-cranial extravasation is attended with Compression of the brain; denoted hy more or less complete suspension of the cerebral functions of consciousness, sensation, and voluntary motion. But— unhke the immediate compression by depressed fracture — these symptoms supervene after an interval, however short; during which consciousness may have been more or less completely regained. The patient again becomes insensible, gradually, as extravasation proceeds; the breathing, slow, laboured, and prolonged, is usually accompanied with a stertorous or snoring noise, and puffing blowing of the Hps, or whiffing expirations from the corner of the mouth; while the pulse falls usually, to slow, full, and laboured strokes, as felt under the finger; the pupils are found to be dilated, sometimes contracted, or one may be contracted and the other dilated, but they are always insensible to light, and the eyes fixed, perhaps upturned, or with a squint inwards or outwards. But the progressive insensibility, and pecuhar breathing, will first attract attention; and when some con- sciousness remains or returns, paralysis will be found to have occurred on the side opposite to the injury and extravasation; this hemiplegia being attended perhaps with convulsive twitchings of the muscles, on that side ; while, on the other side, the limbs are drawn up. Then also, the nrine is retained, and the faeces are discharged involuntarily. Consequences.—(1.) Extravasated Hood remains infiltrated, or be- comes encysted and undergoes changes of spissitude and colour. In either of the three situations of extra-cranial extravasation, the pri- mary condition, or this alteration, may be found. But with intra- cranial extravasation, blood effused between the dura mater and bone, or in the pia mater, never seems to become encysted; while iu the cavity of the arachnoid, it is liable, even prone, to acquire a perfect cyst, if the extravasation be large, or to form tough membranes ; such cyst or membrane becoming provided with blood-vessels. These changes are, however, the work of time. (2.) Inflammation, with lymph and pus-formation within the cranium, is always liable to supervene, in consequence of fracture, and in the same situations as intra-cranial extravasation may occur; namely, in the diploe of the skull, between the bone and dura mater, ia the cavity of the arachnoid, beneath the arachnoid and in the pia mater, and in the substance of the brain. Symptoms of inflammation affecting the bone, the membranes, or the brain, are followed by symptoms of Compression, as lymph and pus-formation supervene. But—as with extravasation—an interval of time elapses between the fracture and these symptoms ; an interval of longer duration, usually several days, during which, however, in- flammatory symptoms prevail, instead of consciousness returning. The symptoms, therefore, run their course in two distinct stages : cerebral excitement, followed by stupor from compression. The patient com- plains of headache, becomes restless, and feverish,—as denoted by a rapid, bounding, hard pulse, and hot, dry skin. Contraction of the pupils, with intolerance of light and sound, may also be noticed. Soon, wandering or delirium sets in, sickness, and perhaps convulsions ; hut the agitation of manner, the wild, glistening eyes, with injected conjunctivjB, flushed face, and throbbing carotids, alike betoken the