198 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tave reference to the state of the inflammation, and of the general health. Topical bleeding, by a leech or two, or cupping to the temple, will rai-ely be necessary ; derivation by blistering, and weak astringent lotions or eye-washes, usually proving sufficient to reduce the vascu- larity. The liquor plumbi diacetatis, fifteen minims to the ounce of distilled water, forms a useful coUyrium ; though it should never be used when there is any abrasion of the surface of the cornea, lest a white deposit should take place. Warm fomentations, and especially warm poppy fomentations, are often very agreeable and soothing to the patient. Spermaceti ointment may be smeared on the eyelashes at bed-time, when there is any tendency to gumming of the lids during sleep. The general treatment should not be of a lowering character; active purgation will rarely be requisite, but regulation of the bowels and the correction of any error of diet constitute the plan of treatment. Thus, a stomachic mixture, consisting of bicarbonate of potash, the diluted hydrocyanic acid, with the tinctures of gentian and rhubarb, may often be prescribed with great benefit; combined with plain nutritious food. Tonics will often have to be resorted to ; quinine and iron or the mineral acids. Varieties of conjunctivitis are worthy of differential notice. (a.) Catarrhal Ophthalmia.—A peculiar characteristic of this va- riety—observes Mr. Dixon—is the existence of numerous red blotches at different parts of the network of vessels, produced by some of these having given way and allowed their blood to become extrava- sated. The extravasations vary much in size ; some being as small as a pin's head, whilst others almost equal the breadth of the cornea. Mucous secretion, little at first, may afterwards become so profuse as to resemble another variety of Ophthalmia,—the purulent. Sometimes, the sclerotic is involved, as denoted by a pink zone at the margin of the cornea; and, the subconjunctival cellular tissue getting infiltrated, the conjunctival membrane is raised over the sclerotic into a bleb containing serous fluid, an appearance which ceases abruptly at the margin of the cornea. This elevated condition of the inflamed con- junctiva is named Ghemosis. The upper eyehd also frequently becomes cedematous, and overhangs the lower lid,—in this mixed state of con- junctival and sclerotic inflammation. Treatment.—The unmixed state of inflammation, when the con- junctiva alone is affected, and without constitutional disturbance, requires no further treatment than the local application of nitrate of silver in solution,—two grains to the ounce of distilled water, which should be dropped into the eye, twice or thrice a day. Previously to using the drops, the conjunctiva should be cleansed with warm water. Eye-drops, in this and other ophthalmic affections, are introduced by just separating the lids with the thumb and forefinger of the left hand, and then inserting the drop by a camel's-hair brush, or by means of a pipette, between the lids at the outer angle of the eye, so that the fluid shall pass, in the course of the tears, over the globe. This being con- tinued for a week, it may then be used once a day, for perhaps a week longer, when the cure will be complete. If the sclerotic and perhaps the cornea have become implicated, nitrate of silver must be omitted, and the inflammation treated as when these textures of the eye are alone affected. (b.) Phlyctenular or Pustular Ophthalmia is characterized by little,