142 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. is relieved by a granule of potassa fusa introduced into tHe aperture of the swelling, whilst the most suitable dressing when ulceration is established is the yellow basilicon ointment. In the local treatment of the exanthemata, it should never be for- gotten how much comfort is derivable from a thin cojiting of grease of any kind, although the oxide of zinc ointment is especially suitable for the purpose. There should be no washing or sponging, but only gentle wiping on each repetition of the unguent. The advantages of local treatment are also strikingly exhibited in variola, not simply as a means of relieving heat and itching, but as a most successful method of prevention of pustules. Syphilis, save in the instance of ulceration, requires no local remedy for its treatment; black wash may be painted on the ulcers, or they may be dressed with a mild mercurial ointment; but their cure is to be found in the constitutional treatment. Even elephantiasis admits of relief from inunction with stimulative liniments or ointments. Strumous sores need the assistance of gently stimulating ointments and tinctures, and lupus the application of nitrate of silver and potassa fusa. In lepra vulgaris, severe frictions with preparations of tar are especially indicated. In the group representing aberration of nutrition, the first example— the dry, impoverished, and sordid skin of ichthyosis—calls for abundant inunction with any bland grease, such as oleum theobromae, unguentum petrolei or vaseline, and thorough saponaceous ablutions. Verruca may be removed with pyroligneous acid or potassa fusa; angeiomata with the latter caustic or witli the knife ; molluscum, when sufficiently im- portant, with the knife; while cheloides and scleroderma should be closely covered up with any unirritating plaster, such as that of the compound soap cerate spread on soft leather; and epithelioma must be speedily " stamped out" with caustic or with the knife. Disorders of innervation, represented by pruritus and prurigo, are relieved by lotions and inunctions of carbolic acid, creosote, and tar, or lotions of hydrocyanic acid; and neuralgia zosteri by hydrate of chloral and camphor, and by liniments of aconite, belladonna, camphor, and ammonia. Affections of the appendages of the skin are to be treated locally on the general principles already indicated. Dryness and roughness of the epidermis and nails are relieved by saturation with some umm- tating grease ; pigmentary discolourations may be removed by borax in lotion and ointment, and an ointment of bismuth; and phytosis or pityriasis versicolor by an ointment of sulphuret of potash, or an emulsion of almonds with the perchloride of mercury (one or two grains to the ounce). Onychia will require the oxide of zinc omtment and nitrate of silver, and onycho-gryphosis a solution of chloride of zinc inserted beneath the nail, and subsequent dressing with the oxide of zinc ointment and a bandage. . The affections of the hair-follicles and hairs have each their separate local remedy. For tinea, there is no better one than the nitric oxide of mercury ointment, combined with two-thirds of any diluting medium ; for general alopecia, a mildly stimulating lotion, such as one containing ammonia and chloroform ; and for alopecia areata, painting with epipastic fluid diluted with distiUed vinegar in equal proportions, followed by frictions with tar.