114 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. lations.—These operations are performed in a manner precisely similar to the analogous operations on the Fingers. In amputations at the Fig. 557.* Fig. 558.t Fig. 559. last-named articulations, tlie incision must be commenced proportionately farther back than in the Hand, these articulations being situated at some distance above the web of the Toes; and it is undesirable to remove the head of the metatarsal bone, which would diminish the breadth and support of tlie foot. Amputation of the Great Toe, at its Tarso- metatarsal Articulation.—With, a stout bis- toury, commence an incision on the dorsum of the foot, at the posterior extremity of the interspace between the metatarsal bones of the first and second toes ; carry the incision forward to the ball of the great toe and curve it inwards upon the ball to the sole of the foot^. a part opposite to the web between the toes; thence draw the knife back- wards along the sole of the foot, parallel with the outer margin of the metatarsal bone of the great toe to a point opposite to the commence ment of the dorsal incision. Dissect the flap back, close to the bone divide the web between the first two toes, avoiding the sesamoid bone here situated, and isolate the metatarsal bone; then, twist- ing the great toe inwards, pass the knife deeply into the angle of the wound and open the articulation with the internal cuneiform bone, detaching its hgamentous connections —but avoiding the termination of the dorsal artery by directing the knife towards the joint, and thus complete the amputation. (Fig. 559.) , • The metatarsal lone alone can be removea hy the first part of this operation; the flap being made without then dividing the web of the toes. t a i- i Amputation of the Little Toe, at its Tarso-metatarsal Artvculation.- * Diagram showing lines of incision from points of l^^ne, in-1, ampntation great toeT2, little toef 3, all the toes; 4, or at their tarso-metatarsal articulaaons. I through the tarsus, or medio-tarpal; 6, at ankle-joint. nmnutfl- ' t Sgrara showing lines of disarticulation, or section of bone, m-l, a^^^^^^^^^ nf ^11 the toes; 2, at their tarso-metatarsal articulations; 3, through tne tSus, or meL tarsal;' 4, at the ankle-joint; and 4', with tuberosity of the os calcis.