530 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 811 * particularly a knuckle of intestine, deeply seated in the angle between the body of the pubes and the femoral vessels, forms a tense unyieldincr lump—perhaps scarcely visible, and feeling like an enlarged lymphatic gland; while a fully developed, hemispherical hernia has a soft, doughy consistence. The reducibility of the tumour, and its varying size, according to posture, straining or cough- ing, and the impulse then communicated, are all additional signs of its hernial nature. Females are much more subject to crural hernia then males. Perhaps this greater lia- bility may be owing to the larger size of the crural ring in the female. But, as compared with inguinal hernia, the much more common occurrence of femoral hernia, as generally sup- posed, is not verified by Kingdon's statistics, to which I have already referred. The rela- tion of femoral hernia to age, in the female, is remarkable, and explains the numerical equality of the two forms of hernia. Before puberty, inguinal hernia is common, whilst crural is extremely rare. Of 193 girls affected with hernia before fifteen years of age, 184 were cases of inguinal, and only nine crural rupture. Even to the age of twenty years, the one is much more common than the other form of hernia ; and in a total of 1442 hernial cases in females, at all ages from birth upwards, the majority of crural hernia over inguinal was only fifty-four. After twenty years of age, crural hernia is much more commonly developed than inguinal, and it occurs most frequently between the ages of twenty and forty—i.e., during the prime of life in women. This peculiarity is due to that being the period of life when parturi- tion is also most frequent, whereby the abdominal walls become much stretched and relaxed; and Mr. Kingdon's statistics show that this has a greater tendency to develop crural rather than inguinal hernia. In 680 ruptured women, 262 had the one, 178 had the other form of hernia. The first pregnancy also has the most predisposing influence, as regards either form of hernia; subsequent pregnancies seem to have an almost invariably declining tendency. Diacjnosis from other tumours, in the femoral region.—Psoas abscess differs from femoral hernia, in its situation, the characters of the tumour, and its history. The abscess presents below Poupart's liga- ment, but to the outer side of the femoral vessels. It is partly at least reducible in the recumbent posture; but careful palpation with either hand alternately, above and below Poupart's ligament, demonstrates a corresponding subsidence and enlargement in these situations, as of fluid passing to and fro. The antecedent symptoms of pain in some part of the dorsal or lumbar spine, and constitutional disturbance, will corroborate the diagnosis; any impulse on coughing notwithstanding. Iliac abscess may point at the crural ring, but the history and consti- tutional cachexia will be diagnostic, although associated with impulse on coughing, and a reducible swelling. Gysts occasionally form in the * Koy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 1350. Femoral hernia, of large size; and having in- creased equally in all directions, it overlaps the crural arch, and extends outwards over the femoral vessels, also inwards and downwards. (Taunton.)