483 STRANGULATED HERNIA. gangrene, the skin over the hernia may have acquired a dusky-red colour, and the tumour becomes doughy and emphysematous. Some- times, with rupture of a sphacelated portion of intestine, f eecal e.x;trava- sation takes place, when an accession of sudden and most intense pain betokens that perilous event; but the hernial relaxation coincident Avith sphacelus is a fatal omen, and in a state of overwhelming collapse, death occurs almost imperceptibly. The post-mortem appearances presented by strangulated hernia are principally those of acute peritonitis. The abdomen is distended and tympanitic ; and on opening the cavity, the intestines are found to be more or less injected of a bright-red colour, chiefly where the convolu- tions are in contact, where they are also agglutinated by yellow and tenacious recent lymph. A sero-purulent and flaky fluid has collected in the posterior recesses of the abdominal cavity ; and there the intestine may show hypostatic congestion, of a dark venous colour—diifering from peritoneal inflammation. The latter commences from the seat of stricture, where the bowel, lying just within the hernial aperture, still exhibits the mark of constriction; the nipped portion of bowel has a purple or blackish colour, and is adherent usually to the adjoining parietes. Above the stricture, the intestine is distended with flatus into large coils, which, on opening the abdomen, are first seen bulging up, and which conceal the relatively contracted or empty intestine below the stricture. Diagnosis.—To determine the diagnosis of strangulated Hernia, a tunwur, of hernial character, mast always be sought for and discovered. But the size of such tumour is unimportant; a small hernial protru- sion, embracing only a portion of the circumference of the intestine, will be quite sufficient to produce the most severe constitutional symp- toms of Hernia. A patient may have suffered for some days from nausea and vomiting, with frequent desire to relieve the bowels, and inability to evacuate, passing only perhaps a little wind. The co- existence of a hernial tumour with these symptoms will complete the diagnosis. Without the presence of such tumour, similar symptoms may depend on mechanical obstruction of the intestine within the abdomen, and as arising from various causes—intussusception or invagi- nation of intestine, volvulus or twisting of the bowel, the ligatui-e of a fibrous band, the pressure of a tumour, stricture—simple or malig- nant—enteritis, or simply constipation. There are also the rare forms of internal abdominal hernia to be considered, in the absence of a tumour. A strangulated hernia being present, there may be a notable o6se»ce of the symptoms of strangulation,—local and constitutional. Thus, the usual tension of the tumour, and tenderness about its neck may be wanting, and there may be no abdominal pain or tenderness on pressure,—even with pus-forming peritonitis; vomiting also may be absent throughout the whole course of strangulation; while the circu- ation and nervous system are, perhaps, singularly irresponsive to the local condition. Some quickness of pulse and anxious or haggard ex- pression of countenance are, however, generally indicative of^strangu- lation ; and at length the patient succumbs to prostration. The diagnosis of strangulated hernia from incarcerated, and from simply irreducible hernia, has been noticed in the definition of these several conditions of Hernia. Ivifiamed irreducible hernia most nearlv resembles strangulation. Hernia in this state exhibits all the local