SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEBY. 102 painful cicatrix after Chopart's operation, I divided the cicatrix sub- cutaneously without much effect; but at a later period, I removed the subjacent portion of the astragalus, with a perfectly successful result. The tendo-Achillis had been divided, to overcome retraction of the stump and tilting forwards of the astragalus under the cicatrix. An hysterical constitutional condition not unfrequently causes neuralgia and spasmodic twitchings in the stump, especially in females. No operative interference will be of the slightest use ; and this condition must be treated, as best it may, constitutionally. In more rare cases a neuralgic affection of the stump, coupled perhaps with spasmodic con- tractions of the muscles, may depend on the formation of an exostosis at the end of the bone. This had occurred in a case, after amputation in the thigh ; the end of the femur being the seat of two osseous out- growths, attached near the linea aspera. (Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2827 ; also 2826. G. Langstaff.) Healthy Stump.—Certain structural changes ensue in a healthy stump, and whereby it presents ultimately an altered appearance. The ends of bone or bones become rounded and somewhat pointed, or occasionally enlarged, at their extremities, and the medullary canal is occluded with new bone. The ends of two bones, as in stumps of the leg aiid forearm, are usually approximated and connected by strong ligamentous union, or sometimes joined by an osseous arch (Spence). The vessels are obliterated up to the nearest collateral branch, and the ends of the nerves have undergone some bulbous enlargement, con- sisting of dense fibro-cellular tissue and scattered nervous fibrillae— these terminal neuromata forming even when the ends of nerve are deeply covered. The muscular portions of the flaps, however ample at first, are more or less wasted and transformed into fibro-cellular tex- ture connected with the skin, which chiefly forms the covering to the bone. Commonly, the end of bone corresponds to the cicatrix, and is often firmly united to it; but both these conditions will depend on the mode of forming the covering. The stump is thus reduced in size and somewhat pointed or conical; the rounded end of bone being plainly'felt under the finger. (Fig. 639.) The practical inferences from these structural results would seem to be, that bulky muscular flaps are useless, and that the skin should be made of amply sufficient length to form the integumental covei'ing of the bone; at the same time, observing to divide the nerves high up, to prevent their ends becoming in- volved in the integumental cicatrix, and to afford a deep covering as the muscular texture progressively wastes to a greater or less extent. In ijounrj persons, the bone may continue to grow after amputation. Consequently, in per- forming the operation, some redundancy of soft parts should be left to compensate for the osseous development. Artificial Limhs of various kinds have been invented, suitable to the of the part removed; and the most useful forms are figured m Fig. 539.* use connection with the result of each particular Amputation. Double Amputation.—Amputation of two limbs, simultaneously or * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2814a. (Partridge.)