695 CAUSES OF DEATH AFTER LATERAL LITHOTOMY. It is not at all a favourable sign. Urine having again returned through the wound, the quantity gradually diminishes during granulation and' contraction; a portion passes permanently by the urethra in a week or ten days, and the wound closes about the end of a fortnight to three weeks. The cure is completed in from thirty to forty days. In the case of a large mulberry calculus which I removed from a man sixty-five years of age, the patient returned sound to Hastings, at the end of a month. Phosphatic calculi generally entail the longest period for recovery after operation. Morbid conditions of the wound, as that of sloughing or suppuration, must be treated accordingly. Secondary hfBmorrhage not unfrequently occurs; apparently, as Sir B. Brodie suggests, from the detachment of a slough. Compression of the bleeding vesesls will prove more effectual than ligature.^ Urinanj fistula sometimes remains, with incontinence of urine, tem- porary or permanent. This result is met with mostly in children, and it generally ceases as age advances. The fistulous tract may perhaps be closed by occasionally passing a probe coated with nitrate of silver, or by the galvanic-wire cautery. Incontinence alone may occur, particularly in childhood, if the patient be allowed to get up too soon, before the sphincter of the bladder has recovered its tone. Impotency is a more rare result, from wound or injury involving the ejaculatory ducts in the substance of the prostate. Fcecal fistula may be the result of a wound of the rectum; or of bruising of the bowel, either by a forcible use of the finger in the act of protecting it, or during extraction of the stone. Causes of Death, and Results, after Lateral Lithotomy.—The principal causes of death are:—(1) Age ; (2) Large Calculus and Pelvic Cellulitis ; (3) Disease of the Kidneys ; (4) Haemorrhage ; (5) Shock; (6) Cystitis; (7) Peritonitis; (8) Pygemia. (1.) Agehsus a remarkable relation to the mortality after lithotomy. The lateral operation is rarely fatal in childhood ; a dangerous opera- tion in middle life; and a perilous or fatal operation in old age. This operation has been found to be four times as fatal in adults as in children, .at the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital. Cheselden lost only one patient out of thirty-five nnder ten years of age; and of the cases recorded by Mr. South (in Chelius's Surgery) as having been operated on at St. Thomas's Hospital during a period of twenty-three years, the mortality, at that period of life, was only 1 in 58. Coulson's table of 2972 cases shows an increasing mortality at each successive decennial period:— tinder ten years, it is 1 in 13 ; it thence gradually rises, after ten to eighty years, to 1 in 9, 1 in 6, 1 in 5, 1 in 4, 1 in 3'65, 1 in 3"23, 1 in 2-71. The mortality at all ages rates at 1 in.9, according to the St. Thomas's table of 125 cases where the age was stated; but in 1827 cases, collected by Sir H. Thompson from the Metropolitan and Provincial Hospitals, the average mortality was higher,—nearly 1 in 8; and in Coulson's general table of 6505 cases, male and female, the • average mortality rises still higher,—to 1 in 6'56, or about 2 in every 13 cases. (2.) Size of the Stone.—A large stone is far more dangerous than a small one, in regard to the result of operation; and the danger in- creases with the size, or weight, of the stone. This may be due, either to bruising and laceration of the neck of the bladder, or to infiltration