432 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. the collapsed lung. Decomposition of the purulent fluid would thu« be mduced, and severe or fatal constitutional disturbance. To obviate any such risk, the cannula should be provided with a stop-cock whToh St ^d^'^^^' withdrawn; an india-ruller^aris t^^^^^^ attached to the projecting end of the cannula, and the fluid safely rtp'plied ;s off '"^^ emp4d anj reapplied, as often as may be necessary to evacuate the purulent collection. A modification of this method is that which I prefer A long india-rubber tube, instead of the bag, having been fixed to the cannula and its free end placed in a basin of water, the fluid is drawn Ott as safely under water, and with the advantage to the Surgeon of ills being enabled to see when the stream ceases. On withdrawing the cannula, a pad of lint is slid over the puncture-orifice in the integu ment and secured by strips of plaster. The admission of air into the pleura would lead to purulent decomposition, and proloncred fetid discharge; and also prevent the re-expansion of the lung But if there be a foreign body in the thorax, as a bullet, portion of clothing or a piece of dead bone, the opening should be maintained, or even enlarged, m order to facilitate its escape, or removal by surgical inter- ference. After the operation of paracentesis, a rib-bandage may be used to restrict thoracic respiration. The drainage-tube of M Chas- saignac, and adopted by Dr. Goodfellow and Mr. De Morgan, has been employed to prevent any reaccumulation of pus. A long iron probe slightly bent, is introduced through the trocar-opening, and pressed against an intercostal space posteriorly, as low down as possible The prominent end having been distinctly felt, it is cut down upon, and pushed out. A silk thread carrying the drainage-tube is attached to the eye of the probe, and on withdrawing the probe at the lower opening, the drainage-tube follows through the pleural cavity; the ends of the tube, projecting from the opposite openings, are tied together, and the purulent fluid drains away, guttatim, as it forms. I Fig. 759. remember to have read a case in which Mr. Berkeley Hill adopted this resource, in an old-standing empyema, and with most marked benefit to the general health. For the purpose of cleansing the pleural cavity, injections of tepid water, or weak disinfectant solutions of the