176 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. had been cast m wax. Softening of the brain-substance, abscess in the central part of the bram or cerebellum, and efEasion of serum in the yen. tricles, constitute the alterations peculiar to the brain. The veins are more or less engorged with blood, and the venous sinuses contain coagula. All these appearances, however, may not co-exist in any one brain as the results of inflammation. ' The causes of intra-cranial inflammation, consequent on injury of the head, are the various conditions of injury already described. Thus scalp-wound, and contusion of the cranium; fractures of the skull' with injury of the membranes of the brain; concussion, contusion] compression, and wounds of the brain;—these several forms of lesion are the starting-points of inflammation. The train of symptoms above mentioned, supervene at a variable period after injury of the head ; and this question of time has a toler- ably definite relation to the cause of inflammation, thereby indicating the probable source of the symptoms. If dependent upon concussion, the symptoms of intra-cranial inflammation appear at a very early period—perhaps within a few hours ; as arising from contusion of the brain-substance, they generally supervene about the fourth or fifth day; whereas, from contusion of the bone, the inflammatory mischief may not appear for a while—many days, or two or three weeks, and then suddenly be declared. The prognosis of intra-cranial inflammation is always precarious, and especially in the second stage, that of effusion or suppuration with coma. Treatment.—The head should be shaved, and raised in an elevated position; and cold lotions or an ice-bag be applied. Free purgation must then be brought into action, and blood-letting in some form. Local bleeding by means of leeches applied to the temples, or cupping on the nape of the neck, will always be necessary; general blood- letting may be had recourse to according to the severity of the symptoms, and small repeated bleedings are safer and make a more permanent impression on the cerebral circulation than one large blood- letting. Antimonial salines prove useful adjuncts to these depletory and sedative measures, by continuing their influence on the system. Aconite (Fleming's tincture), in small doses of a drop or half a drop, in water, every three hours, is recommended by Mr. Spence, as being safer than antimony, which is apt to induce vomiting. Opium had better not be administered in large or opiate doses; although, in the form of morphia, it may be given to control furious delirium. Bromide of potassium, in large doses, is said to be also very efficacious. Calo- mel, in small doses, combined with opium, should be pushed to saliva- tion. These measures must be followed up by derivation from the head, by means of blisters applied to the nape of the neck or the head. A blistering-cap is used by the French Surgeons, and dressing the blis- tered surface with mercury has sometimes been most effectual for restraining effusion in the second stage of inflammation. Ultimately, tonics, especially quinine with the mineral acids, and a generous diet, may be given with great advantage to relieve the lingering headache, and restore the nerve-power and muscular strength. The state of the viscera, and of the kidneys in particular, should always be examined thoroughly, in relation to both the diagnosis and treatment of inflammation of the brain, arising apparently from any injury of the head.