HERNIA. 469 Fig. 773." Fig. 774.t natural anatomical condition of the surrounding parts,—as the ex- ternal and internal abdominal rings, in complete, oblique inguinal hernia; or, the original neck may have slipped down with a fresh protrusion, forming the " sacs aux collets " of French authors. I have thus seen three necks produced, or corresponding constrictions, in a large scrotal omental hernia. These thickened rings vary in position with relation to the axis of the sac, as Cloquet observed; being transverse or oblique, according to the more or less equal descent of the sac. The rings consist of fibrous indentations of the peritoneum; and sometimes they pass inwards as duplicatures, form- ing septa or partitions, dividing the sac into two cavities, which communicate by a central aperture. Occasionally, an incomplete ring has a corresponding semilunar valvular fold, within the sac; or form- ing an almost complete septal division. (Fig. 773.) Structural Changes in the Sao.—-The size, shape, and textural con- dition of the peritoneal prolongation vary according to the period of its formation, in the acquired her- nial sac. Commencing as a small digital depression, it assumes the shape of a funnel, and then that of a finger of a glove. These forms are, however, somewhat dependent on the region in which the hernia is developed. At this early period, the entrance to the sac is larger than the body,—there is no true neck, and strangulation of the pro- truded organ cannot occur. At length the sac, reaching tissues of less resistance, undergoes dilata- tion and acquires a spherical shape; while the entrance be- coming proportionately constricted and puckered, forms a neck of variable length and calibre, so that strangulation can occur. In this state, the sac may retain the originally thin, transparent texture of peritoneal membrane ; but it soon becomes adherent to adjoining parts. Organization takes place, in both the body and the neck of the sac, more particularly in the latter portion. The sub-serous cellular tissue is the principal seat of these textural changes. They consist in the formation of new blood-vessels, increasing the vascular appearance of the peritoneal surface, and a contractile induration of the cellular texture, attended with a marked diminution or disappearance of the fat, although the person be very fat. This textural transformation of the peritoneum is evinced by thickening and opacity of the sac, especially its neck. Contraction follows to some extent, and even obliteration, when the hernial protrusion ceases. The peritoneal transformation acquires a fibrous and less vascular character, and the consequent induration may be cartilaginous, or even ossific, in the form of plates. This is the state of an old hernial sac (Fig. 774), and the contraction is most notable when 1287. A large inguinal hernial sac; showing also a wall (sTa' ) transverse crescentio fold or partition from its posterior t Ibid., 1289. Thickened sac of old inguinal hernia. (Liston.)