SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. cavity, its removal can be accomplished by the wire ecraseur. But the difficulty and danger of the former operation are serious considera- tions. The necessity for that procedure should, therefore, always be determined by the presence and urgency of symptoms. And the necessity thence arising will be absent, in proportion as the tumour is embedded, or projects into the abdomen. Enucleation may have one of two objects in view: direct removal of the tumour at the time,—primary enucleation ; or, the disturbance only of the relations of the tumour, so as to induce gangrene,—secondary enucleation. Barnes ("Medical and Surgical Diseases of Women," 2nd ed., 1878) embodies the conclusions which his own experience and that of all recent operators indicate. " The justification for attempting enu- cleation, avulsion, or other mode of removing large fibroids will rest u-pon—(1) uncontrollable htemorrhages endangering life; (2) signs of sloughing or decomposition of the tumour, with present or threatening peritonitis or pyasmia ; (3) dangerous pressure upon the bladder or rectum; (4) such great size as to cause dangerous pressure upon the abdominal and thoracic viscera. In short, life must be unmistakably threatened. The same conditions threatening life, and removal by the vagina being precluded, may justify the last resource—ablation of the tumour and uterus en masse by abdominal section." Means for controlling haemorrhage or other urgent dangers failing, we have to consider the best mode of getting rid of the tumour alto- gether. This embraces the discussion of the various proceedings for pro- moting expulsion ; for causing destruction and elimination by setting up inflammation or necrosis in the tumour ; for ablation by enucleation, avulsion, ligature, knife, scissors, ecraseur, cautery ; and for removing the uterus itself, along with the tumours, by laparatomy. The idea of enucleation seems to have been first clearly enunciated by Velpeau. It was practised by Amussat, and had some vogue afterwards. L. Boyer, A. Berard, Maisonneuve, and Lisfranc practised it; but many disastrous issues brought it into discredit. It was re- vived by Simpson, but a full report of his experience has not been made known. Lately the operation has been rather freely repeated. It might be said that the success is in relation to the choice of the case and the skill of the operator, leaving a considerable margin for accidental circumstances. Atlee expresses the latest views (1876). If the tumour project into the uterine cavity, it may be favourable for enucleation. The first step is to obtain free opening of the cervix uteri. This is eifected by incisions made by Simpson's hysterotome. These should radiate, so as to avoid extreme length of any one cut. It was established by Baker Brown, Nelaton, and McClintock, that the cervical in- cision alone would frequently subdue the hoemorrhage ; it often also lessens pain. This point gained, we may often wait for the progressive advance of the tumour towards detachment from the uterine wall and conversion into the polypoid form. At the proper moment for action^ full dilatation of the cervix being attained, the tumour may be at- tacked in various ways :—(1.) If there is any approach to peduncula- tion, a wire-loop ecraseur may be passed over the tumour, so as to get | beyond the equator or greatest diameter. The loop, under the action 1 of the screw, will adjust itself to the narrowest part, and shave it off | (