SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 16 sInngliJngr. McTntyrc's spUnt I have lonjr disused; .'fc not OT1I7 causes some pressure on the heel, and precludes access to that part for Fio. 485. ■ H XT >< >^ dressing, if requisite, but the trough in which the limb lies induces more wasting of the muscles than would otherwise ensue, and thence also a loosening of the splint at an earlier period than when it may be safely removed for cleansing, and reapplied. Broad strips of adhesive plaster are drawn round the limb and splint, immediately above and below the knee, another broad strip high up on the thigh, and a narrow strip around the ankle. (Fig. 486.) A roller bandage is applied from the ankle upwards, and another high up from the thigh down- wards, leaving the knee uncovered. An outside interrupted splint, well padded, and covered with oil-silk above and below the interrup- tion at the knee, and provided with a vertical foot-piece, is now applied; this splint reaching from above the great trochanter down- wards, and the end of the thigh-piece well supporting the very end, of the femur externally, at the seat of excision, while the per]Dendicnlar foot-piece maintains the leg in position, and the upper end of the tibia in steady apposition with the femoral end of bone. Elevation of the whole limb five or six inches will be found to further aid the latter purpose. A short padded femoral splint may also be placed in front of the thigh, terminating just above the femoral end of the bone ; but if the external thigh-piece be not too wide, this anterior splint will scai-cely be necessary, and I rarely use it. The external splint is secured by a roller bandage from the foot to below the knee, and by another bandage from above the knee, up the thigh, and over the end of the splint, with two or three turns around the pelvis. The use of the external splint is to counteract the tendency to displacement of the lower end of the femur, in three directions, after excision of the knee-joint—projection outwards by abduction, rotation outwards, and projection forwards. * Eoyal Free Hospital, (Author.)