DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 141 Struma makes a demand for our whole armamenhim of tonics, begin- ning with nutritious food and cod-liver oil, and running on to iron, iodine, quinine, strychnine, phosphorus, and lime; whilst the phar- macy of lepra vulgaris is limited to arsenic and tar. In defective nutrition and aberration of nutrition of the skin, the nutrients and the tonics, and our special nutrient tonic, arsenic, are called into requisition. Disorders of innervation are treated with tonics, and especially with cod-liver oil, phosphorus, quinine, and arsenic. When due simply to nerve irritability, they yield to this treatment; but when they are con- sequent on an organic change in the nerves themselves, as in some instances of prurigo, and notably in the neuralgia of shingles in elderly persons, they often defy our best endeavours to promote cure. Diseases of the appendages of the skin must be treated on the above general principles; but, in every case of cutaneous affection, it must be borne in mind that the general functions of the organization must be observed and regulated. The local treatment of diseases of the skin, although second in order, is not necessarily second in importance. As hyperasmia and inflammation are prominent features in these diseases, our first con- sideration must be to soothe. To effect this purpose, we must remove all obvious causes of irritation, and then have recourse to our recog- nized palliatives. Any mild and unirritating powder, such as fuller's earth, is known to relieve heat and hypersemia of the skin; oxide of zinc and lime water (in the proportion of one drachm to an ounce) will form a white-wash over the inflamed surface which is peculiarly sooth- ing. Next to these remedies we may enumerate the benzoated oxide of zinc ointment, softened by the addition of an eighth of spirits of wine. Ordinary erythema and erythematous eczema may require no other • treatment than the above powder and lotion ; while a smart attack of humid eczema will possibly need no additional external remedy from one end of the treatment to the other. When we come to the chronic period of eczema, a mildly stimulating ointment, such as that of the • nitric oxide or ammonio-chloride of mercury, may be serviceable ; and if there be sluggishness with pruritus, a preparation of tar, either in ""the form of lotion or ointment. During the whole course of this treat- ment washing should be avoided; it disturbs the healing process, and, however agreeable for the moment, is always followed by an exacer- bation of irritation. There is a moment, however, in the course of the treatment of eczema, when water-dressing or "envelopment" may be serviceable, and that is when the tissues are distended with infiltrated fluids, and nature of herself is unable to expel them through the skin. In such cases, the heat and moisture of "envelopment" serve to facilitate the process; but the treatment, however useful for a temporary purpose, is debili- tating as respects the tissues, and must not be continued too long. The surface must soon be washed and dried, and the zinc ointment, with a covering of wash-leather, resumed as in ordinary cases. Pemphigus, being a disease of exudation, is especially benefited by the lotion of lime water and zinc of moderate consistence; erythema is to be treated in a similar manner; while furunculus may be held in check by liquor plumbi painted on the surface, or by a plaster of gal- banum and opium on wash-leather. The severe tension of furunculus