SHORT-SIGHT AND LONG-SIGHT. 233 The fframalar condition of the corneal epitheHam, and the haziness or complete opacity of the cornea, in acute Glaucoma, preclude m general any eSamiiation of the fundus of the eye by means of the ophthalmoscope. Usually, nothing more can be discerned than a faint reddish slow from the retina, without any trace of the optic nerve or retinal vessels. Whilst the disease is threatening however, and after it has subsided, very important and characteristic features are presented. In subacute and chronic Glaucoma not only is the mtra-ocular tension greatly increased, but the point of entrance of the optic nerve being the p/rt least capable of resistance, is pressed outwards and the disk becomes cupped (Fig. 634.) This condition is recognized by attention to the couri; of the Vessels. If a vem be traced up to the margm of the cupped disk, it will be found to terminate abruptly with a rounded and somewhat darker extremity, due to the vessel bending away from the observer; and the rest of the ^ altogether beyond the reach of any such treatment; the structural disorganization cannot be prevented, it having already taken place, more or less completely. Iridectomy.—This operation was proposed by Graefe, in 1857; and it has proved more successful than any other mode of treatment. When performed for the cure of Glaucoma, a large portion, or about one-fifth, of the iris should be removed; the proceeding adopted being such as has already been given on pp. 212, 213. The " intra-ocular pressure," on which the whole state of the eye depends, is thus at once relieved, and the Glaucoma cured. When, however, complete structural dis- organization of the eye has taken place, evidently the operation must be unsuccessful. If iridectomy instruments be not at hand, Mr. Han- cock's operation, or simple puncture of the eye in the ciliary region with a cataract-knife, may be practised. Short-Sight, and Long-Sight. —These conditions represent exclu- sively the range, not the power or clearness, of vision. They depend on alterations, either in the refractive power of the transparent media of the eye, as an optical instrument, or in the adaptive power of the organ; in either way, the focusing power of the eye is altered. And such alteration is of an opposite character in the two ranges of vision. The general principles by which errors of refraction can be recog- * The cupped disk characterizing glaucoma.