LITHOTRITY IN CHILDREN. 709 behind which the fragment lodges; but the want of expulsion com- monly depends on an atonic state of the bladder. Hence, any debris should be washed out by injection, in aid of the treatment for cystitis. Nephritis, acute or chronic, of one or both kidneys, is not unfre- quently a consequence of lithotrity. In the twelve deaths already referred to, no less than seven resulted from this cause. Atony of the Madder occurs chiefly in old persons. The patient enjoys too quiet a state of the bladder after operation, the urine being retained with ease for several hours, owing to the loss of expulsive power. Chronic cystitis is very apt to supervene from retention of urine, in this deceitfully tolerant state of the bladder. Spasmodic retention of urine sometimes follows the operation, and it occurs mostly in combination with an atonic state of the bladder. Both are most frequent in old persons with enlargement of the pro- state. The treatment of the spasmodic retention consists in giving a warm bath and then a full dose of opium. In either case, the urine must be di-awn oif with a large-sized catheter, rather than allow any accumulation in the bladder. Retention from the impaction of coagula or a fragment in the neck of the bladder must be treated by catheterization. Suppression of tirine, with coma, is an occasional consequence of the operation, and probably depends on some previously existing latent disease of the kidneys. The constitutional disturbances incident to lithotrity may be com- prised under rigors and febrile attacks, including pysemic infection. Rigors not unfrequently set in immediately after the operation, espe- cially after the first sitting, and last perhaps for some hours, termi- nating in perspiration. This attack is most common and severe when the operation has been prolonged, or the urethra overstretched, and not at all in proportion to the amount of pain. A full dose of opium, or a tumbler of warm brandy-and-water, as Sir B. Brodie recom- mended, are the best remedies ; the patient lying in bed and wrapped in a blanket. Irritative fever may ensue, which rapidly assumes a typhoid character; the pulse rising in frequency to beyond what can be distinctly counted, and becoming proportionately feeble and irregular, with a dry, hot skin, and dry, harsh, brown tongue. Com- mencing perhaps with rigors, and passing off with sweating in a few- days, the fever sometimes assumes an intermittent or a remittent character. But this attack is more surely fatal than the most severe rigors. Pycemia occasionally supervenes, probably in connection with suppuration as the result of damage done to the bladder. Of the twelve deaths in Thompson's series of cases, two only were due to pyaemia. Pre-existing disease of the kidneys, attended with albu- minous urine, always tends to induce these unfavourable or fatal constitutional consequences of lithotrity. Their treatment mainly comprises the administration of opium and stimulants, with tonics—especially quinine—judiciously regulated. _ Lithotrity in Children is attended with certain difficulties, which as- objections to this mode of operation at an early period of life, should not be overlooked. The sm^ll size of the urethra, and irritability of the bladder, are unfavourable to the free working of the lithotrite ; while the neck of the bladder being very dilatable, it allows the im-