7G9 OEGANIC STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. comparison in the subsequent introduction of gradually larger-sized instruments. Professor Spence's three recommendations are, I am sure, here advisable :—always pass the size of instrument used'on the previous occasion, before proceeding to the next larger size ; never omit any one size to pass a higher one; never pass two larger sizes on the same occasion. By disregarding either of the two latter rules, undue irritation will almost certainly be excited, and the Surgeon is more likely to lose than gain ground. An instrument may be re-introduced every two or three days. But the intervals of catheterization must be reo-u- lated by the state of the urethra, and the constitutional disturbance induced. When bleeding, pain, or smarting in micturition follow or continue after the operation—events very likely to happen after the first passage of an instrument through the stricture—further dilatation must be postponed for a day or two, until this urethral condition has subsided. Kigor or shivering, faintness or sickness, may also super- vene, especially under similar circumstances; postponing any re-intro- duction of an instrument until this state of constitutional disturbance has passed off. Chloroform, therefore, often becomes an invaluable agent in the treatment of tight stricture by dilatation. Spence is mclmed to believe that rigor arises from the irritation produced by the instrument in passing over the prostatic urethra and neck of the bladder. Hence, in using the smaller-sized instruments, when the flow of urine shows that the bladder is entered, the catheter should be withdrawn, and left only in the stricture ; or in using those of larger size, the instrument is passed only through the stricture and no farther. ' Flexible and Mastic Bougies are now much employed as a sub- stitute for ca,theters—metallic or gum-elastic,—in the treatment of stricture by dilatation, as well as in the diagnosis of stricture. These instruments owe their advantage not only to their flexible and elastic character, but also to the peculiar shapes of their distal extremities, ihe forms more commonly employed are—the bougie olivaire, having an ohve-bulb end, whereby the instrument can be insinuated or twirled into a stricture, aided by the flexible nature of the shaft, without the liability of making a false passage; the bougie conique, having a conical tapering point, can enter a stricture more readily, but it is liable to lodge in a lacuna and make a false passage, which is prevented by the olive; the bougie olivaire a ventre, having a spindle-shaped enlargement above the olive end, thus specially dilates the stricture and up to the largest-sized catheter without painfully distending the comparatively narrow external meatus of the urethra; the boiwie comque a ventre is similar to the last, and used for a similar purpose but Its conical end. has some disadvantage relative to the formation of false passage; the bougie a trois noeuds having three conical enlarge- ments, of successively increasing size, this instrument is specially suit- I able tor rapid dilatation. For very tight strictures, the filiform elastic bougie may be twisted through the urethra, inch by inch from the glans, any obstriTc on being indicated by the shaft of the bougie sprino-in^ back unti it^^ . arreted and held in the stricture. The 'olivary f^Tie bo^i" • though almost filiform, is much stiffer, yet, being provided with an .olive end, is safe in its passage ; this instrument thus seems snecialTv > suited for very tight, indurated, a^d perhaps extensive sTicTure as 3 D