SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEllY. 786 4hrougli the linea alba, so as just to admit tlie tip of the finger to reach the distended bladder—below the peritoneal fold, -which will have receded owing to the state of distension. An assistant steadies this organ by even pressure with his hands against the abdominal wall, on either side ; and a sli<xhtly curved trocar is entered downwards into the bladder (Fig. 930), the urine drawn off, and the cannula Fig. 929.* allowed to remain for a few days, as may be necessary. It is secured by tapes and a waist-bandage. This operation has been sometimes practised, and is strongly advo- cated by Mr. Paget, of Leicester, and by some other Surgeons of eminence. It is not, however, generally adopted. The objections are—some risk of urinary infiltration, or of a fistulous opening remain- ing. But there may be no alternative between supra-pubic puncture and rectal pxmcture ; or the perineal section,—when, with impassable stricture, the prostate is considerably enlarged. Rectal puncture may then be absolutely impracticable, from the impossibility of reaching with the finger behind the enlarged prostate. Puncture of the Bladder through the Symphysis Pubis.—An ordinary hydrocele trocar of medium size is introduced, with or without a small * London Hosp. Mus., A. e. 75. A large cyst situated between the bladder and rectum, in a boy aged two years. The cyst was as large as an adult fist; its inner surface bore several large, soft, nodular projections, and the cavity contained a bloody fluid. The whole seems to have been a cancer cyst, of the medullaiy character ; and the nodular substance showed imder the microscope nucleated cells of irregular forms. The patient had symptoms of retention of urine; and on rectal examination with the finger, a fluid tumour, like the bladder, was found occupying the bottom of the sacrum, and pushing the bladder upwaj ds. The cyst was punctured, but only blood was withdrawn ; and then the urine was drawn off from the bladder by a catheter. t Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2043. Supra-pubic puncture of the bladder, for reten- tion of urine, four years before death. The track of the passage from the linea allia to the anterior wall of the bladder is partly laid open. Great enlargement of tlie prostate, the middle lobe projecting over the vesical orifice of the urethra. The patient, seventy years old, had symptoms of enlarged prostate for sixteen months before the operation; a cannula was retained in the bladder for nearly six montlis, and thus he resumed his business. Then a catheter was passed through the urethra into the bladder, with some difficulty in overcoming the enlarged prostate, and the cannula was withdrawn. Owing to atony of the bladder, the catheter had to be introduced twice daily. Symptoms of stone in the bladder set in, with renal pain; the supra-pubic aperture reopened and discharged purulent urine, and death ensued from exhaustion. One large stone and several small ones were found in the bladder,- and the ureters and pelves of the kidneys were full of pus. (Laugstaff.) (