812 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Hydro-sarcocele signifies that variety wherein the testicle itself is much enlarged m conjunction with hydrocele. Dmgnosis.-Kjdvocele is distinguished from scrotal herma,~hY the translucency of the swelling, when this sign is present; by th^ tumour terminatmg abruptly at the external abdominal ring, instead of ex tending with a thick stalk upwards into the inguinal canal • by the Fig. 942.* Fig. 943.t sharp angle formed at the external ring, and hinge-hke movement of the tumour, when it is tilted forwards; by the absence of impulse at that point, on coughing; by the lighter weight of hydrocele; and by the history of its development, as to whether the swelHng commenced below, in the scrotum and ascended to the groin, or descended into the scrotum. The two conditions—hernia and hydrocele—are not un- frequently coexisting (Fig. 943); the hernial sac descending into the scrotum, in front or behind the hydrocele, on one side of it, or some- times into the hydrocele. Out' of six cases of the latter relative position which Dupuytren witnessed, in two only symptoms of strangu- lation resulted from constriction of the hernia at the line where it was engaged in the serous pouch of the hydrocele. From cystic disease of the testicle, hydrocele may be distinguished by the fluctuation extend- ; ing all over the swelling, instead of being limited to some part of the j tumour. From hcematocele, or a collection of blood in the tunica vagi- 1 nalis, hydrocele is known by its translucency; when non-transparent, recourse must be had to the aid of puncture by a trocar, as the turning- point of diagnosis. Double hydrocele, one on each side of the scrotum, occurs in about an equal number of cases. Causes.—The serous fluid in the tunica vaginalis—forming hydro- cele—is only an excessive quantity of that which naturally moistens the internal surface of the tunic; and its accumulation results from * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mns., 2335. Complete septum in tunica vaginalis testis, and hydrocele of each sac. Above this bipartite tunica vaginalis, there is the sac of an old ingTiinal hernia. The hydrocele had existed twenty-five years, and the patient died at seventy years old, alter an operation for strangulated hernia. (Iv. B. Walker.) t Ibid., 1337. (Iluuteriau.)