SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 520 Badical Cure.—The ancient, or even some of the more modem methods of procedure, for the radical cure of inguinal hernia, do not merit any particular notice. Such were the applications of various ointments, plasters, the actual cautery, caustics ; royal stitch, punctum aureum, excision, or ligature of the sac; ligature of the sao without including the spermatic cord, with or without excision, as practised by bchmucker and Langenbeck; and obliteration of the neck of the sao by the pressure of a strong tight truss, as recommended by Richter and, L Estrange. The modern operations are those of Schuh, Rigg, Belmas, Velpeau, Pancoast, Bonnet, Gerdy and Signoroni, Wurtzer° and Joha Wood of King's College Hospital. Of these operations it will suffice to describe more particularly those of the last three named authorities; and the following summary of them all is gathered from Mr. Wood's treatise on Rupture. The operations may be classed under two heads. First—those which deal with the interior of the sac only, with the view of causino- adhesion of its opposed surfaces to each other; upon the principle of the radical cure of hydrocele. This has been attempted in various ways—namely, by a simple seton of threads, candle-wick, or sponge, passed through the sac by a needle or other instrument. Such are, briefly, the methods practised by Schuh of Vienna, and Rigg of New York. Belmas of Paris passed into the interior of the sac a bag of goldbeater's skin, which was then distended with jelly to induce irrita- tion of the sac. Velpeau in Paris, and Pancoast in New York, injected into the sac a solution of tincture of iodine or cantharides. Assuming that these methods of obliterating the sac are without peril to the life of the patient—which for many of them is a very liberal concession indeed—a simple adhesion of the surfaces of the sac itself will not prevent the formation of another sac from the abundant and loose peritoneum of the internal opening; the real, effective boundaries of the inguinal canal and rings being left as patulous as before. This was long ago pointed out by Lawrence in his able treatise on Ruptures. With this class may be associated the operative procedure of Bonnet of Lyons, which consists in passing needles across the sac and its coverings; thus pinching them up, as they emerge from the superficial ring. The anterior part only of the sac, and below the inguinal canal, is regarded in this procedure; leaving the upper and posterior portions, and the tendinous boundaries, unaffected. The result is the temporary retention of the hernia in the canal, and an ultimate return to its former condition ; with the further disadvantage of a constriction or incomplete adhesion, opposite the point operated on, which increases the liability of strangulation. The ultimate con- dition of the parts was invariably unsatisfactory. The second class of operations are based upon a different principle— invagination of the skin and fascia of the scrotum, so as to form a plug up the hernial canal. Gerdy's metliod.—The skin of the scrotum, containing some portion of the fundus of the hernial sac, is pushed up into the superficial ring upon the fiinger of the o^serator. A curved needle, armed with strong ligature thread, is then carried along the finger, and thrust through to the surface of the groin on each side of the point of the finger. The ligature is then tied up, so as to hold the invaginated sac and skin in their new position, till adhesion has taken place in the interior of the