DISEASES OF THE LIPS. LABIOPLASTIC OPEEATIONS. 291 racters o£ epifclielial cancer are presented. (Fig. 677.) The sub- maxillary glands become involved, and thence enlarged and indurated. The ravages of the disease, as in other parts, may here also be extensive; ulceration destroy- ing the lip, and the lower jawbone and teeth becoming carious. Pain and discharge some- times wear down the patient. The diagnosis from chancre of the lip is mainly determined by the latter presenting a superficial ulcer, raised on a base of cartila- ginous' hardness; the sore may cicatrize, and the indurated base remain. The submaxillary glands enlarge at an early period, six or eight weeks after the sore commenced. Secondary symptoms appear sooner or later, unless early treatment has been adopted. The upper or lower lip may be equally often the seat of chancre. Cancer of the lip occurs almost exclusively in men, and afber the middle period of life; in these two particulars also it probably differs from chancre. The local and exciting cause of cancer would seem to be some source of irritation; commonly the adhesive contact of a clay-pipe when not coated with sealing wax, or a sharp broken tooth. Treatment.—Excision, free and early, is the only cure. Some affection of the submaxillary glands does not forbid this procedure; but they also should be extirpated. The incisions in the lip must be directed according to the line of disease. A V-shaped incision will best include the diseased portion, when it extends downwards in the lip (see Fig. 677) ; a quadrilateral operation in other cases ; or a more superficial semicircular sweep, when the disease extends along the lip. The lines of incision should be brought together with twisted sutures, as in the operation for hare-lip ; a horizontal incision may be closed-by simple sutures, uniting the opposed edges of skin and mucous membrane. This operation sometimes proves permanently successful; but often the disease returns in from six months to two years. Excision should, however, be repeated, to prolong life. Very rarely, other forms of cancer affect the lip, and more often, the upper lip. Labioplastic Operations.—Restoration of either the Upper or the Lower Lip may be effected by plastic operations, varying in their design according to the deficiency of structure. The Lower Lij), partially destroyed by disease or injury, admits of restoration from the cheeks, which readily supply both skin and mucous membrane. The Celsian operation, as described by Malgaigne and put into practice by the late M. Bonnet, of Lyons, is simply this :—The affected part of the lip, as in the case of cancer, having been removed by a V-shaped incision, or by two vertical incisions down to the base of the jaw, united by a transverse incision, the cheiloplastic operation of restoration will vary accordingly, with reference to each such deficiency. When a triangular portion of the lip and chin has been removed, this defect may be repaired by a transverse incision from the angle of