258 SrECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEKY. treatment; the Eustachian tube being kept pervious by Politzerization, and, if crusts of dried secretion occlude the orifice, by the injection of an alkaline solution, such as bicarbonate of soda (5ss. to 5i. to an ounce of water). If the disease has lasted some time, and the larger part of the membrane is absent, the closure of the perforation may impair the hearing power; for this reason it is advisable to temporarily close the aperture with a drop of glycerine or some other thick fluid, and notice the effect. Should the result be to lessen the hearing power to any considerable extent, the patient should be warned of the loss of power which will probably result by the closure, but this should not as a rule deter the Surgeon from trying to obtain a closed cavity. While the affection is in the acute stage, keeping the parts clean with gentle iniections of warm water and some mild astringent, for the purpose of restraining the secretion and bringing the membrane into its normal condition will be all the treatment that is required; the patient at the same time keeping a piece of cotton wadding in the ear wheu he goes out if the weather is cold or windy. In order to close a large per- foration, the edges should be gently stimulated by the application of nitrate of silver, either in solution or by a thm layer of the crystals on a probe as mentioned in the treatment of granulations, or by some irritant But if the aperture cannot be closed by the growth of new cicatricial tissue, and yet its closure would improve the hearing power, it may be covered by means of an artificial drum, the success of which is in some cases very great. Numerous modifications of this are used; but the simplest, most easily apphed, and best is a piece of cotton waddino- moistened in water or carbolic acid solution, and apphed over the perforation, lapping considerably over the edges. Another form, which may rarely be found to improve the hearing more than the last, is Tovnbee's drum, consisting of a thin disk of vulcanized rubber, liroiectino- from the centre of which is a fine silver wire, by which it is introduced and removed. The effect of an artificial membrane cannot always be judged of by the first application, but it should be introduced several times, changing the point of pressure and adapting it closely against different portions of the remnant of the natural membrane at each introduction, before a conclusion is arrived at as to the amount of improvement of the hearing that it will cause, it it is found to be of service, it ought not to be worn for more than an hour or two at a time for some days. It must always be removed at mght, and both the ear and the artificial membrane should be kept in perfect ""^^""ArUfidal Perforation of the ilfemferane.-This operation is of value in cases of accumulation of pus and mucus m \he cavity of the tympanum; of impassable stricture of the Eustachian tube , ot thSkening of the membrane ; of adhesions of the -embrane to tt waUs of the cavity; of relaxed membrane; m cases of o^^We tinnitus, and in those where no benefit has been derived from the r)rolona:ed use of other treatment. . . ^ Thtt the operation has been of benefit m these cases is certain thouo-h, except where there is an accumulation in the cavity, we^ neve? in any individual case be sure beforehand whether paracentesu will improve the hearing power or not. In cases of accumulation of pn or in the cavity? the operation acts as the openmg o an abces^ in Ty other part of the body. In these cases, the operation is per-