Fig. 961.* TUMOUKS OF THE TESTICLE. 831 described as additional forms of Sarcocele, a misleading designation respecting their real nature. Cystic Tumour of the Testicle.—This form of Tumour, known also as the Hydatid Testis of Sir A. Cooper, may be purely Cystic ; or associated with Cartilaginous or with Cancer Growth. Cystic Disease consists of an agglomeration of cysts, thin-walled, varying in size from a pin's head to a walnut, and their globular shape modified by mutual pressure. (Fig. 961.) They are simple cysts ; con- taining fluid, thin and colourless, or viscid and blood-tinged or other- wise discoloured; or they become proliferous, bearing on their interior fibrous growths, of a pedunculated and lobulated shape, which occupy and eventually distend the cysts. These intra-cystic growths have been found by Mr. Quekett to possess a cellular structure covered on the surface with cylindrical epithelium, and they may contain small, hard, spherical bodies like pearls, composed of concentric layers of condensed epithelium. Fi- brous tissue, in variable quantity, is formed with, and intervenes between, the cysts. When constituting the chief element of the tumour, this has been jia,med fibro-cystic tumour. Thus Paget describes the cystic growth as essen- tially a fibrous, or fibrous and cartilaginous, tumour in the testicle, with more or less cyst-formation in its substance. ^ The growth is not generally diffused throughout the organ,—it originates, and remains circumscribed, in one part; and as the growth increases, the unaffected portion of the testicle is pressed aside or spread out over the tumour; so that the mass, which is usually spherical, can perhaps be shelled out, leaving a considerable part of the testicle healthy. Occasionally, gland tissue has been found dispersed to a certain amount through the cystic tumour. The epididymis, at "first unaffected, becomes flattened, compressed, and atrophied; while the surfaces of the tunica vaginalis becoming perhaps adherent, the cavity is more or less entirely obliterated. The primary situation, and mode of origin, of the cysts are doubtful. They appear to originate in the substance of the organ; but whether in the tubular gland tissue, or in the connective tissue, is uncertain. And the mode of cyst origin may perhaps be a dilatation of the seminal tubules, as Sir A. Cooper originally stated, and Mr. Curlino- seems to have confirmed; or the cysts may originate as independent formations. _ Respecting the probability of the former mode of pro- duction, it is a remarkable fact that spermatozoa are never found in the cysts. Hydrocele seldom coexists with cystic testicle. One organ only is affected with this disease. Signs and Diagnosis.—The testicle enlarges, acquires an oval or nearly spherical form, and slowly attains to a considerable size. Its weight IS less than that of any solid tumour, but it is heavier than hydrocele. li;lasticity, over a limited area, with less decided fluctuation, and a total absence of transparency, will chiefly distinguish cystic * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 2388a. Cystic tumour of the testicle. (E. Cock.)