478 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. practically very important, and requisite for the Surgeon to know; especially when he has to communicate with the instrument maker at a distance, as in London from the country. Take the common forms of herniiB—inguinal and femoral. The whole circumference of the pelvis must be measured, lest any perchance natural difference on one side should alter the proportion of the truss. Place the end of the measuring tape over the lower hernial aperture, draw it in a slanting direction upwards to about two inches below the crest of the ilium, thence round the back to the same point on the opposite side, slantinw down again to the aperture. (Fig. 780.) The size of the truss \vill be represented by the number of inches thus measured. The kind of pad —in respect to its shape, size, and attachment to the circumferential portion of the truss—must also be stated. Lastly, the kind and side of the hernia. A truss having been applied, it should be tested^ by desiring the patient to sit on the edge of a chair, with his legs wide apart, bending the body forwards, and then to cough. If, in that posture, and with such effort, the hernia still remains np, without any tendency to slip down behind the pad, the truss fits well, and will prove effectual under all ordinary circumstances. The truss should be worn daily, and taken off only at night. Irritation consequent on continued pressurer of the pad, may be relieved by washing the skin with spirit lotion, and substituting an elastic air-cnshion for a while. A piece of adherent omentum may undergo inflammation, suppuration, and gangrene from the pressure of a tight truss, leading even to peritonitis. (2.) Operations for Badical Cure.—The principle implied by the cure of Hernia is the obliteration of the sac or its neck. Compression of the whole neck of the sac, by means of a well-fitting truss, has led to its adhesive obliteration, in small and recent hernia, at an early period of life ; the cure also being safe and remaining perma- nent. But this procedure must be continued for a considerable time, at least two years ; and then, as a precautionary measure, prolonged for two years more. The cJianges which the sac undergoes in the course of obliteration were carefully investigated by Cloquet. They consist of gradual con- traction and atrophy, with adhesion of the inner surface of the perito- neal protrusion. Commencing, usually, in the neck of the sac, the peritoneum contracts into folds, radiating around the mouth of the sac, which here often becomes thickened; the whole having an opaque white, and wrinkled cicatricial appearance. Various modifications may he found, in the form of small cul-de-sacs between the folds, or small canals between the sac and abdomen. Further contraction, followed by adhesion, at length obliterates the neck of the sac ; and the mouth may become adherent to the viscera which had been protruded, espe- cially to an adjoining piece of omentum. The neck of the sac being reduced to a membranous or fibrous prolongation, the protruded por- tion is thus converted into a serous cyst—discontinuous with the cavity of the abdominal peritoneum. This cyst contracts upwards to the folds of the obliterated neck, at the abdominal aperture of the former hernia. When closely connected with surrounding parts, the cyst contracts in breadth into an elongated cord. In either case the walls become atrophied, thin, and transparent, although sometimes they are thick and opaque; the inner surface acquires a dull-looking, dry