WOUNDS OF THE BRAIN. 173 f oTile may possibly occur as a form of gunshot injury; and the ball, rebounding; falls out of the wound. But when the fracture is com- plete and' then often depressed, thus penetratmg the skull, without, howe'ver forming a counter-opening, the fair inference will be that the brain is'wounded, and that the ball has lodged withm the cranium. CFif 606 ) The symptoms of brain-injury are insensibility, with or without couTulsions; followed by more marked symptoms of compres- sion, as hEemorrhage takes place; or, subsequently, those of cerebral inflammation, leading to serous or purulent ^ effusion, and compression. It is only under * is. bUb. notably exceptional circumstances that the Surgeon can be misled in his diagnosis. The ball may not have lodged, but have been withdrawn in removing the cap or other head covering. Then, again, no cere- bral symptoms may be produced for some time, even in a period of seven or eight weeks, and not prove fatal until after the lapse of several months ; when, by post-mortem examination, the ball has been found encysted, and as a foreign body, therefore, harm- less Remarkable instances of this kind are recorded by Larrey, Hamilton, and Chelius; the longest period during which the person survived having been a year and a half, and the ball weighing seven drachms—lodged within the brain. Daring the American War of the Rebellion, there were many cases in which patients survived the lodgment'of foreign bodies within the skull; but rarely without much cerebral disorder. It is also interesting to note the fact that the mor- taUty of penetrating and perforating gunshot wounds of the head was nearly equal; being 85-5 and 80, or slightly less when the ball passed through, than when it lodged within the cranium. The general mortality of gunshot injuries of the head, chiefly fractures, as gathered from large collections of cases, presented the following hisrh percentage :— ^ ^ ^ Per Cent. British Army in Crimea—Government report by T. P. Matthew ... 73-9 French Army in Crimea— Government report by M. Ckenie 74 American War—Government report by G. A. Otis 71-7 Treatment.—Considering the uncertain situation of the ball, and the probability that it has penetrated deeply into the substance of the brain, or that it may have been accidentally withdrawn in removing the head-dress, no attempt should be made to discover the foreign body through the wound. Searching with the probe or the finger may do far more mischief than the presence of the ball would provoke ; and the operation of trephining to enlarge the aperture in the cranium would comphcate an already sufficiently dangerous lesion. Such pro- cedures have been practised, and indeed with success, but only in a few authentic cases. When the ball lies upon the dura mater, and close to the cranial aperture, this opening may be enlarged so as to allow of extraction. In any case, depressed spiculas of bone should be * St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 218. Gunshot fracture of frontal bone; passing through the frontal sinus, and carrying away a portion of the orbital plate. From the body of Nicholas B., who was killed in the attempt to assassinate the Emperor of the French, January Hth, 1858. Presented by H. C. Johnson.