SPECIAL PATIIOLOOY AKP RURGRTIY. 73G examination with the finger introduced into the rectum. The accom- panying inflammatory fever is often very acute ; commencing with rigors, and leading to a high degree of constitutional disturbance. As the prostate enlarges, micturition becomes diflBcult, and total retention may ensue from the obstruction. An attempt to pass an ordinary catheter meets with some opposition, and produces great pain, when the instrument reaches the neck of the bladder. Causes.—Prostatitis is usually a consequence of gonorrhoea, the urethral inflammation extending upwards to the prostate, or of stric- ture of the urethra, or of injury in the violent use of stricture or lithotrity instruments; or it results from the irritation of a calculus, strong injections, or cauterization of the prostatic urethra. Cold and damp to the perineum will also give rise to it, and especially in gouty or rheumatic subjects. As occasional causes may be mentioned—alcoholic drinks and inordinate sexual excitement, when, in either case, urethritis already exists, or hard riding on horseback. As an idiopathic inflam- mation it is very rare. It terminates in the course of a few days, in resolution or in sup- puration, or becomes chronic inflammation. Treatment.—Local blood-letting from the perinetim affords the greatest relief. Ten or twenty leeches should be applied, or cupping performed to the amount of six or eight ounces; followed by warm poppy-head fomentations and hip-baths. Pain is best relieved by opiate suppositories ; as of pil. saponis co., five or ten grains. A free purgation, and subsequently gentle action of the bowels, with anti- nionial salines and low diet, constitute the remainder of the treat- ment. Retention of urine may yield under a full dose of opium, or necessitate the occasional use of the gum-elastic catheter. By promptly adopting these measures, the inflammation may subside, without suppuration; although there is always a liability to relapse, the prostate remaining enlarged and hardened for some time, with some difficulty or delay in the passage of the stream of urine. Abscess of Prostate.—Suppuration is preceded by throbbing about the neck of the bladder or in the perineum; the rectal swelling becomes softer, and fluctuation may be perceptible; pus appears in the urine, when the abscess bursts into the urethra and discharges through that passage. Generally, the urethral opening soon closes; if it remains open it becomes a receptacle for urine, and induces abscess in the perineum, which bursting externally, forms a fistula in perineo. Sometimes, the abscess opens through the rectum, resulting in the establishment of urethro-rectal fistula ; and occasionally it opens into the bladder. Not unfrequently, the abscess is burst by the introduc- duction of a catheter, in relieving the retention of urine caused by the enlarged gland ; the matter being drawn off through the instrument. The quantity discharged may be considei-able. Pen-prostatic abscess occurs in not a few cases; the matter forming external to the prostate, and not within the capsule of the organ. Such abscess is of less serious import than prostatic abscess. Treatment should be prompt and decided with the view of giving vent to any formation of matter. When, therefore, there is a tendency to perineal pointing, as indicated by brawny induration, without any fluctuation, an incision should at once be made in the middle Ime, about three-quarters of an inch anterior to the anus, and down to the