that manipulation may be performed. At the SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. any degree of movement at the union perceptible to the finger so placed, and even to the eye as a sort of hinge-motion. This test is far more delicate and painless than by grasping the limb above and below the knee, and moving it backwards and forwards; however gently end of the third month, on removing the splints, the trial of union may be made, by seeing whether the patient can himself raise the limb a little from the bed, by its own mus- cular action. If so, a starched bandage may be applied, provided with a back-splint and an external splint of pasteboard; and the limb being slung from the neck by a long loop of roller bandage, the patient may be allowed to get about on crutches to completely regain his general health. Apertures should be left in the starched bandage, opposite either end of the incision at the knee, where a small sinus-opening, at both points, often exists; and which may continue to weep for a considerable time. Don't probe these little openings. Any necrosed spiculum of bone will work its way out. Any subsequent displacement can be rectified before union is maturely consolidated; and the limb should be very gradually brought into use, for support and progression. The best mode of testing the weight-bearing strength of the union is that which I originally suggested. Let the Surgeon place his hand under the sole of the foot, while the patient, standing, gradually leans on the limb ; a feeling of weight is thus communicated, which affords a far more accurate estimate than as indicated by the pressure apparently borne on the limb, when the patient is merely looked at in the same attitude. A high-heeled shoe or boot may be worn, to compensate for any shortening of the limb. I generally find it advisable to employ this substitute; at least, for some time after the operation, and where any considerable thickness of bone has been excised. But, in the cases of knee-joint excision by Professor Spence—eighteen cases (1871)—some obliquity of the pelvis was observed to compensate for the shortened state of the limb; whilst the movements of the hip and ankle joints supplied the loss of motion in the knee. An ordinary boot, therefore, was worn, similar to that on the healthy side ; the patients thus walk- ing better than with a high-heeled boot. Results of Excision of the Knee-joint in relation to Natural Anchylosis. —The true comparison of joint-excision is with the natural cure by anchylosis. Such comparison would involve several essential particu- lars : the appropriate nature of the anchylosis, and with a proper posi- tion of the limb for its functional use; the duration of the period of recovery; the permanency of that result, and its frequency, as result- ing from excision or from the natural cure; and their liability to life, or comparative mortality. Statistical results bearing on these ques- * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., D. 96^. An excellent specimen of synostosis, with the femoral and tibial ends of bone in accurate apposition, after excision of tho knee-joint. Tho patella, having bccu retained in this case, has also become firmly united to the end of the femur. Fig. 487.*