SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. pulp has not previously ached, and is hence presumably healthy the tooth may nevertheless be filled at the same sitting. ^ ^' LnTn if-rP^'i*^ ^^"""^^ ^^^^^^ swabbed with deliquesced car- bohc acid, till Its pmk surface is whitened, a cap of some inoffensive non-conductmg substance adjusted, and the cavity filled with such care so as not to dislodge the cap. For this purpose oxychloride of zinc IS the most generally suitable filling, as it is so soft and plastic when hrst mixed, that it can be introduced without pressure; gutta-percha may also be used, and, under exceptionally favourable circumstances gold or amalgam. ' ^ For the cap many different substances are used—a paste of oxide of zinc and carbolic acid; a slip of absorbent paper moistened with carbolic acid, or, if an oxychloride of zinc filling is to be used, with carbolic acid and oil; a piece of quill (not so good on account of less ready adapta- bility), and many other non-irritant substances ; and finally oxychlo- ride of zmc filling itself, which is painful, and in no respect preferable to the others. A pulp thus treated is said to be " capped," and the ob3ect with which this is done is to give it time to calcify at the point of exposure. In a thoroughly successful case, when the temporary fiUing IS removed nine months or a year after its insertion, the pulp will no longer be exposed, but a plug of secondary dentine will occuijy the former point of exposure, and the tooth can be permanently filled. Perhaps no more convenient place will occur for noting the measure of success which attends the operation of filling teeth, if tho- roughly and skilfully performed. A tooth filled before caries has advanced too far is, if the operation be quite perfect, restored to a condition as sound as that it enjoyed before it began to decay; but inasmuch as it originally decayed when it was sound, so it may again. Teeth are, however, specially prone to decay in certain situations, whether from the existence of original pits in or through the enamel, or from the position being otherwise favourable for the attacks of caries; but when decay has happened in these positions, has been cut out, and a ^perfect gold-filling substituted for the lost tooth-substance, that tooth will be less obnoxious to the attacks of caries than it originally was, inasmuch as its weakest spots will now be of gold, and be incapable of decay. Good fillings will protect teeth frequently for twenty or thirty years—for an unlimited time, in fact—but, as may be gathered from what has been^ said above, such results cannot be uniformly secured. Firstly, there iS the carelessness of the patient, who very frequently neglects to come until the most favourable period for inserting the filling has gone by; next, the enormous difficulty of making uniformly good fillings, a difficulty the extent of which no one who is not conr stantly contending with it can form any idea of. Then there are many teeth in themselves so defective that they are full of weak places, liable to speedy decay; and there are many mouths in which the tendency to^ caries is so great that it seems almost hopeless to con- tend with it. In such mouths (generally in young people, hardly adult) the saliva, or rather the secretion of the gums, is very viscid, and the latter are red and spongy. The only encouraging feature of such cases is that the mouth often becomes more healthy as the patient becomes older, so that if the period of excessively rapid decay can be tided over, a less amount of atten- tion will be required in after years.