KESULTS OF SHOULDER-JOINT EXCISION. 69 horizontally. The general health had so far improved that, regaining some flesh and strength, the patient became cheerful, and said ''he felt better than he had done for years." He left his bed daily, bub- sequently, however, attacks of diarrhoea recurred from time to time, and the abdomen became tumid and tympanitic; enlargement of the liver assumed to arise from amyloid or albuminous degeneration, was diag^iosed by my colleague, Dr. Cockle, under whose care the patient remained. He died from this organic disease on February 4th, three and a half months after the operation, from which he had entirely recovered, and with a freelv movable joint. P.-M. examination verified the diat^nosis, and the articulation was a perfect specimen of a new ball-and'-socket joint; an entire capsular ligament had formed, and the section end of the humerus moved freely on the glenoid cavity of the scapula—in circumduction and rotation. Case 2.—E. F , ^t. IT, a young lady, the daughter of_ a practitioner well known in this metropolis. I was invited by him (January, 1871) to witness the result in this case, and I am thus enabled of my knowledge to speak to its perfect and permanent success; at the same time, he communicated the following important particulars to me respecting its history:—Six years ago, when this youncr lady was between ten and eleven years of age, she apparently took cold, while resting on a seat in Hyde Park. Her previous health having been always good, and as she had never received any injury to the shoulder, this was the only assignable cause of what took place. The right shoulder-joint became very painful, and acute inflammation set in,°followed by free suppuration in forty-eight hours. Dr. Sibson saw the case, and then, by his recommendation, Mr. Samuel Lane, who immediately opened the abscess. It continued to discharge copiously, for two months ; so abundantly, indeed, that the father- who measured with a half-ounce spoon the quantity of matter discharged from day to day, thus calculated that the patient lost, during this short period, three gallons of pus. Her constitutional condition, accordingly, was much reduced. Then, two months from the date of apparent origin, Mr. Lane excised the shoulder-joint, assisted by Mr. James Lane and Mr. G-aseoyen, Mr. Pollock and the father also being present. A longi- tudinal incision was made on the front of the humerus, apparently at the inner border of the deltoid muscle, from opposite the coracoid pro- cess downwards to about three inches in extent, and a short transverse cut superiorly ; forming a J-sbaped incision. Two''inches and a half of the humerus were removed, and the glenoid cavity, in a deeply carious state, was freely gouged. The patient made an uninterrupted recovery ; as reparation took place, the appetite became voracious, and assimilation equally active. Nourishing food -meat, eggs, milk, with port wine, champagne, porter, etc., were taken eagerly at frequent intervals, by day, and even in the night. Being naturally intelligent, she declined any tonic medicine, as she felt her flesh and strength returning; her suggestive remark being—"Which do you think will do me the most good, that which I like, or what I don't like ? " The voice of Nature, thus proclaimed by Nature's child, was heeded. She made a complete recovery, and the result is—that, although the arm is four inches shorter than its fellow, she moves it freely backwards and forwards, without, however, the power to raise it horizontally, unless aided by the left hand. The motions of the forearm are perfect, so