TUMOUES, AND CANCER, OF THE SCROTUM. 809 The general results of excision in tliis disease are shown by 161 cases wherein Mr. Bsdaile, of Calcutta, operated, with the loss of only- five per cent.; and in no instance was death directly due to the opera- tion. In 113 cases submitted to excision in the Medical College Hospital of Calcutta, twenty-one died, or a percentage of 18-58. The large size or weight of the mass removed may not occasion an nnsuc- cessful result; Clot-Bey having had four successful cases, where the weight of the tumour removed was, severally, 65, 70, 80, and 110 pounds. The causes of death have generally been hemorrhage, shock, exhaustion, pyaemia, or diarrhoea; and peritonitis, in one or two cases, by inflammation extending up the spermatic cord. Tumours of the scrotum are rare. Fibrous tumour has, however, been known to occur in several instances, collected by Mr. Curling. It originates in the areolar tissue, is painless, and grows slowly; attaining sometimes to the enormous size of twenty or thirty pounds, and upwards. This species of scrotal tumour occasionally undergoes calcification; and some have been of the recurring fibroid variety. The ordinary fibrous growth has been removed successfully, even when of the largest size. Fattij tumour of the scrotum is far more un- common ; and Gystie tumour is quite rare. Professor Humphry has met with only two recorded cases. Both the latter kinds of tumour have proved very difiicult of diagnosis. Large calculi have every now and then been known to find their way from the bladder into the scrotum; thence escaping by ulceration or being excised. Cancer of the scrotum is generally of the epithelial kind, and this occurs mostly in chimney-sweeps. Hence the disease has been named Chimney-stveeper's cancer, or soot-cancer. It appears to arise from the constant irritation by soot lodging in the folds of the scrotum, and is a common affection. Commencing usually between the ages of thirty and forty, rarely before puberty, it appears as a flattened soft tubercle or wart of a leaden hue, and situated generally near the lower and fore part of the scrotum; this little lump slowly spreads, becomes indurated and covered with a crust or by a thick horny concretion. Occasionally, more than one such lump may form. Ulceration takes place, and an uneven open surface is exposed; having a sinuous edge, with a hard tuberated border and an indurated base, discharging a thin bloody fluid. Ultimately, the whole scrotum is destroyed, ex- posing the testicles, which are usually spared; and the inguinal glands become indurated. Death ensues from constant pain and continued discharge, and in a period averaging four or five years. The disease is then found to be a nearly local affection, not invading the lumbar glands or the abdominal viscei-a. Treatment.—Free excision affords the only hope of cure, and this in proportion to the limitation of the disease. When it returns, the operation may be repeated; and again and again, even to the removal of the whole scrotum and testes, provided such free excision can remove the whole of the disease. Induration of the inguinal glands is' no positive bar to the operation; for slight induration may afterwards subside or remain quiescent; while -with greater induration and en- largement, these glands can perhaps be dissected out as part of the disease and operation of excision.