(14) London : John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C. WITH TWELVE PORTRAITS. Crown 8vo., 352 pp., cloth, 3s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 4s. Some Historic Women; or, Biographical Studies of Women who have made History. By W. H. Daven- port Adams, Author of “Woman’s Work and Worth,” “Plain Living and High Thinking,” etc. WITH EIGHT ILLUSTRATIONS. Small crown 8vo., 384 pp.} cloth, price 3s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 4s. A Few Good Women, and what they TeachUs. A Book for Girls. By CatherineMary MacSorley, Author of “ May Lane,” “ His Chosen Work,” etc. It would be well for the girlhood of England if such books as this were more read by the girls. —Methodist World. “ A nice gift-book for thoughtful girls.”—Graphic. WITH EIJHT ILLUSTRATIONS. Fourth Edition, Crown 8vo., 384 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d. \ gilt edges, 4s. Exemplary Women: A Record of Feminine Virtues and Achievements (abridged from “ Woman’s Work and Worth”). By W. H. Davenport Adams. ,, The qualifications and influence of women indifferent spheres of life are detailed and — ttazaar no'’lces °' the lives of many who have been distinguished in various positions.’ Second Edition, with Eight Engravings after Celebrated Painters. Small crown 8vo., 392 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d.; gilt edges, 4s. The Church Seasons. Historically and Poetically Illustrated. By Alexander H. Grant, M.A., Author of “ Half-Hours with our Sacred Poets,” etc. IS” The aim has been to trace the origin and history of the Festivals and Fasts of the Ecclesiastical Year, and to illustrate in poetry the circumstances under which they began and continue to be celebrated, and the principal ideas and doctrines which they severally incorporate. Mr. Grant’s scholarship is endorsed by authorities; his method is good, his style clear, and his treatment so impartial that his work has been praised alike by Church Times, Record, Watchman, Freeman, and Nonconformist. No words of ours could better prove the catho- licity of a most instructive and valuable work.”—Peterborough Advertiser. . Mr. Grant’s volume is worthy of high praise, alike for its careful research and its dis- enrmnauve quotations. There is so much religious literature which is below the level of criticism, that we cannot but welcome a volume which commends itself to a cultivated Christian audience.”—Echo. Royal Children. 3s. 6d. Seepage 1. “ The youth of both sexes are under deep obligations by the publication of Mr. Hogg's very interesting and attractive volumes. It is a great object to attract the young to the habitual practice of reading. That can only be ac- complished by putting' into their hands books which will interest and amuse them, and at the same time furnish them with useful knowledge, and with sound lessons of a moral, judicious, and sensible character, calculated to be useful to them as they advance in years."—Dundee Courier and Argus.