London : John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C. (3) I'cap. 8vo., boards, price Is. Depression*. What it is, and how to Cure it. By A. E. Bridger, B. A., M.D., B.Sc., F.R.C.P.E. Late Physician to the Hospital for Diseases of the Chest. Author of “ Man and his Maladies,” “ The Treatment of Consumption,” etc. “Deserves to be studied for its frank, healthy, and helpful advice.’’—Sheffield hide- pendent. POPULAR LEGAL HANDBOOKS by ALMARIC RUMSEY, Barrister at-Law, Professor of Indian Jurisprudence at King’s College, reap. 8vo., strongly bound, price Is. each. 1.—Will-Making Made Safe and Easy. An Aid to Testators, Gentle and Simple, Male and Female, Married and Single, Infant and Adult, Civil and Military, on Land and at Sea, at Home and Abroad ; with a Great Variety of Forms and Buies of Descent of Real and Personal Property on Intestacy. “We can commend it both to those who have no legal adviser at hand, and to the country practitioner himself.”—Law Maga- zine and Jlevievj. [—Law Journal. "His directions are clear, his law sound." “May be the means of saving many a man from leaving that doubtful legacy— a lawsuit.”-—Literary World. “It seems to be the best of all books of its kind.”—Athenaeum. “For clergymen, too, who are often called upon suddenly to make the wills of poor parishioners, it will be very helpful. It is remarkably concise and clear in its language and practical in its suggestions.” —Guardian. 2.—The Way to Prove a Will and to take out Administration. Containing Full Instructions Where, How, and When to Apply ; with Alphabetical Tables, Forms of Oaths, Bonds, etc. ; Rules for Personal Applications ; and other Information required for obtaining Probate or Administration. “Contains much useful information arranged with a careful regard for readiness of ac- cess. A special feature is the forms, to which much labour has been devoted."—Law Times. “Such a capital condensation of the law and practice, that no doubt many solicitors will find it remarkably handy for reference.”—Bristol Mercury. " Executors and next-of-kin will find it a useful book.”—Literary World. WITH STOTHARD’S ILLUSTRATIONS, ENGRAVED BY HEATH. Demy 8vo., richly bound, cloth, gilt edges, 7s. 6d. ; half calf extra, 12s. 6d. The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, with a Sketch of Defoe, by Henry J. Nicoll. Note.—A complete, unabridged edition of Defoe’s masterpiece, with all the 22 beautiful Illustrations by Thomas Stothard, R.A., engraved by Charles Heath. These are now printed from the Original Copper Plates, which are still in perfect condition, having been steel-faced to preserve them. “ Mr. Hogg is to be thanked for re-iBSuing the ‘ Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, with Stotliard’s twenty-two designs engraved on copper by Charles Heath. Their charm is Irresistible, and as book prints they rank among the classics of English art. They are delightful works. The text before us is complete, and well printed in a clear type. This edition is, therefore, excellent."—Athenaium. HINTS FOR THE SELECTION OF CHRISTIAN NAMES. Second edition, 176 pp., cloth, price Is. 6d. The Pocket Dictionary of One Thousand Christian Names (Masculine and Feminine); with their Meanings Explained and Arranged in Four Different Ways. £3T Every Parent should consult this before deciding on a Child’s Name, " This will be a useful and interesting book for those who like to ieam the meaning of their own and their friends’ appellations. Parents should purchase it, as it might help them to name their children a little more originally thaD they do.”—Glasgow Herald.