WITH EIGHT ILLUSTRATIONS. (12) London: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., 384 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 4s. The Secret of Success; or, Howto Get on in the World. With some Remarks upon True and False Success, and the Art of making the Best Use of Life. Interspersed with Numerous Examples and Anecdotes. By W. H. Davenport Adams, Author of “Plain Living and HigL Thinking,” etc. “ Mr. Adams’s work is in some respects more practical than Mr. Smiles's. He takes the illustrations more from the world of business and commerce, and their application is un-; mistakable.”—Aberdeen Journal. “ There is a healthy, honest ring in its advice, and a wise discrimination between true and false success Many a story of success and failure helps to point its moral." —Bradford Observer. “The field which Mr. Adams traverses is so rich, extensive, and interesting that his- book is calculated to impart much sound moral philosophy of a kind and in a form that will be appreciated by a large number of readers The book is otherwise a mine of anecdote relating to men who have not only got on in the world, but whose names are illustrious as benefactors to their kind.”—Dundee Advertiser. WITH TWO COLOURED PLATES AND EIGHT PAGE ILLUSTRATIONS. Fifth edition, crown 8vo., 432 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d.; gilt edges. 4s. Our Redcoats and Bluejackets: War Pictures on Land and Sea. Forming a Continuous Narrative of the Naval and Military History of England from the yearr 1793 to the Present Time, including the War in Egypt and in the Soudan. Interspersed with Anecdotes and Accounts of Personal Service. By Henry Stewart, Author of “ The Ocean Wave,” etc. With a Chronological List of England’s Navali and Military Engagements. “ A capital collection of graphic sketches of plucky and brilliant achievements afloat and ashore, and has, moreover, the advantage of being a succinct narrative of historical events.- It is, in fact, the naval and military history of England told in a series of effective tableaux.’ -World. “ It is not a mere collection of scraps and anecdotes about our soldiers and sailors, but a history of their principal achievements since the beginning of the war in 1793. The book has- charms for others than lads.”—Scotsunan. “ Possesses such a genuine interest as no work of fiction could surpass.’’— Aberdeen Journal. WITH EIGHT ILLUSTRATIONS. Martyrs to Freedom; or, Struggles for National Liberty. A Book for Old and Young. By the Rev. Philip Barnes. Crown 8vo., 3s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 4s. “ Parents and teachers who desire to bring up the boys of to-day on noble lines will put . this book into their hands.”—Publishers' Circular. [Post. “ Its stirring incidents, as well as its historical value, make it acceptable.”—Morning “There is not a dull page in the lives of such heroes as these.”—Bradford Observer. “ Will win the interest and admiration of everybody.”—Christian World. “ Should be read by every boy and girl in the empire.”—Weekly Dispatch. The Parlour Menagerie. 3s.6d. Seepage8. “ Among the multitude of publishers who issue books suitable for presents. . Mr. Hogg holds a high place. A catalogue of his publications, samples oj which lie before us, contains a number of useful and interesting works- eminently suitable for presentation to young people of both sexes, and they contain as much reading at as Iowa price as any books in the market."—Pall Mall Gazette.