London: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C. (7) POPULAR COOKERY BOOKS. Medium 16mo., 128 pages, boards, Is., printed in brown ink. 1. What shall we have for Breakfast? or, Everybody’s Breakfast Book. Containing over 175 Recipes. By Agnes C. Maitland, Author of “ The Afternoon Tea- Book,” “ The Cookery Primer,” etc. “An epicure, or rather a glutton, might after reading Miss Maitland's book answer her title question by saying, ‘ Every thing you have got here, please. It is a worthy little book.”—Manchester Guardian. Second Edition. Eleventh Thousand. Dedicated to H.R.H. the Duchess oj ALBANY. Medium 16mo., 128 pp., boards, price Is., printed in brown ink. 2. The Afternoon Tea Book. How to make Tea, Coffee, Chocolate, Cakes, Scones, Rolls, Sandwiches, Cooling Drinks, and Ices. By Agnes C. Maitland. “A most useful little manual.”—Glasgow Herald. 11 Extremely well done."—Literary Churchman. Crown 8vo., 160 pages, price Is., strongly bound in linen cloth. 3. The Cookery Primer for School and Home Use. By Agnes C. Maitland, Author of “ What shall we have for Breakfast ?” etc. The Book contains One Hundred and Twenty-five Recipes for very Cheap Wholesome Dishes, each Recipe occupying a page by itself, giving List of Ingredients, Cost, and full Directions How to Make each Dish (A Clear and Bold Arrang*e- ment), Hints for Hard Times, Remarks about the Right Kinds of Food, Flesh-forming and Heat-giving Foods, Prices of Various Foods, Specimen Breakfasts, How to Spend the Money and do the Cooking, About Cooking Pans and Tins, with General Directions for Making Soups and Broths, Best Ways of Cooking Meat, How to Cook lish, Invalid Cookery, etc. The Cookery Primer will be found very useful in Elementary Schools, aa well as in Cottage Homes. “ There is a cry among housewives that cookery books are made for the wealthy only. With this book as a guide, the anxious housewife, with ever so light a purse, will find her difficulties in providing good, nourishing food wonderfully lightened. —Newcastle Daily Leader. Eleventh edition, crown 8vo., 392 pp., cloth, price 3s. Gd. 4. Dainty Dishes. Receipts collected by Lady Harriet St. Clair (late Countess Munster). “A design so excellent, and an accomplishment so complete, may well recommend this volume to the consideration of the ladies of this kingdom. If economy can be combined with an agreeable and nutritious diet, by all means let the fact be well known. ’—British Mail. “ It is something to say in this age of many cookery-books, that the recipes given are not fanciful, but practical. They can really be cooked, a recommendation that cannot bo given to many of our cookery-books.”—Glasgow Herald. Second Edition, Tenth Thousand, crown 8vo., 176 pp., linen cloth, price Is. 5. Toothsome Dishes : Fish, Flesh, and Fowl; Soups, Sauces, and Sweets. Nearly One Thousand Recipes, with Household Hints and other Useful Information. Edited by Carrie Davenport. “Just the work for a domestic manager to consult and esteem.”—Daily Telegraph. “The recipes are plain and good.”—Saturday Beview.