(20) London : John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C. PROVERB STORIES FOR BOVS AND GIRLS. Small crown 8vo., cloth, 256 pp., with 36 Illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 3s. 1. Every Cloud has its Silver Lining, and other Proverb Stories for Boys and Girls. First Series. By Mbs. Riddell, Mrs. Douglas, M. J. Greer, and others. Small crown 8vo., cloth, 256 pp., with 33 Illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 3s. 2. One Thing at a Time, and other Proverb Stories for Boys and Girls. Second Series. By Ethel Coxon, Mrs. Douglas, Madame Colomb, and other Authors. "Capital prizebooks, with plentiful illus- “ Pleasant gift books for boys and girls.” trations.”—School Board Chronicle. —Tories Gazette. [Examiner. " These volumes are very good.”—Liter- “Thoroughly satisfactory.”—Manchester ary World. “Well and briskly told.”—Pall Mall " The stories are generally excellent, and Gazette. [man. are plentifully illustrated.”—Scotsman. “The idea is excellent.”—Literary Church- WITH SIX PORTRAITS. Second edition, small crown 8vo., cloth, 288 pp., price 2s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 3s. Plodding On; or, The Jog-trot to Fame and Fortune. Illustrated by the Life-Stories of George Peabody, Robert Chambers, T. Brassey, and others. By Henry Curwen, Author of “ A History of Booksellers,” etc. " A splendid book for boys and young men, illustrating the way in which successfu men have triumphed over early disadvantages, and have arrived at a great and good name and ample wealth by quiet perseverance in the path of duty.”—Dundee Courier. Small crown 8vo., 288 pp., cloth, price 2s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 3s. The Shoes of Fortune, and other Fairy Tales. By Hans Christian Andersen. With a Biographical Sketch of the Author, a Portrait, and Twenty-seven Illustra- tions by Otto Speckter and others. “This beautifully illustrated edition of Andersen’s exquisite stories is sure to be a favourite with all young people who become its fortunate possessors. The biographical sketch is admirably written.”—Sheffield Independent. Small crown 8vo., 288 pp., cloth, price 2s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 3s. Far-Famed Tales from the Arabian Nights Entertainments. Illustrated with Seventy-eight wood Engravings, and carefully revised for Young Readers. “ The print is good, there is a profusion of good illustrations, and the volume may be thoroughly recommended as well supplying an acknowledged want of a selection of the most familiar of the stories from the ‘ Arabian Nights,’ in a form fit for childish reading. —Guardian. Facts and Phases of Animal Life. Wonderful Animals. 2s. Qd. each. Seepage8. " The peculiarity of Mr. Hogg is that all his publications have a healthy moral tone, whilst most of them are eminently calculated beneficially to im- press the minds of both sexes. Commercially, the publisher attaches to them a, very modest value y mentally and morally, the value cannot be estimated. Lincolnshire Free Press.