(24) London : John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C. Crown 8vo., cloth (4 colours and gold), price 2s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 3s. Brave Little Women. Tales of the Heroism of Girls. Founded on Fact. By Marie Trevelyan, Author of “ The Spectre Boatman,” etc. illustrated by W. H. Petherick. "May bo placed in the first rank as a I “ Will be welcomed at every fireside."—■ book for young folk.”-—Brighton Herald. | Sheffield Independent. Crown 8vo., cloth (4 colours and gold), price 2s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 3s. Ada Norman’s Trials and Difficulties. A Story for Girls. By M. Seymour, Author of “ Dethroned,” “Two and Two,” etc. With Illustrations by O. L. Thomas. “ Ada is a genuine girl. . . . The entire story is full of valuable suggestions for girl readers.”—Literary World. [Aid. “ A splendid book. ... It deserves a foremost place in every school library.”—Teacher’s Second edition, crown 8vo., cloth, bevelled boards, price 2s. 6d. Fortunate Men: How they made Money and Won Renown. With Portrait of N. M. de Rothschild. " The real value of its contents consists in its asserting the claims to respect of virtues, such as perseverance, method, and punctuality, which are often contemptuously treated, but which are invaluable, whether for making money or, which is much more important, for formation of character. We wish the book success.”—Glasgow Herald. “ There are passages among these selections which are worthy to be inscribed in brass in every place of business. Every young man may read this book with profit.”—Sword and Trowel. A HANDBOOK OF REFERENCE AND QUOTATION. Mottoes and Aphorisms from Shake- speare : Alphabetically arranged ; with a Copious Index of 9,000 References to the infinitely varied Words and Ideas of the Mottoes. Any word or idea can be traced at once, and the correct quotation (with name of play, act, and scene) had without going further. Second edition, fcap. 8vo., cloth, price 2s. 6d. “ The collection is, we believe, unique of its kind.”—Oxford Times. “ The writer who delights now and then to embellish his productions by some of the well- pointed and telling mottoes and aphorisms from Shakespeare has here a most valuable book of reference.”—Yorkshire Gazette. Fourth edition of a new and enlarged edition, fcap. 8vo., cloth, price 2s. 6d. A Practical Guide to English Versifica- tion, with a Compendious Dictionary of Rhymes, an Examina- tion of Classical Measures, and Comments upon Burlesque and Comic Verse, Vers de Societe, and Song Writing. By Tom Hood. “ A dainty little book on English verse-making. The Dictionary of Rhymes will be found one of the most complete and practical in our language.”—Freeman. “ Alike to the tyro in versifying, the student of literature, and the general reader, this guide can be confidently recommended.”—Scotsman. Red Line Edition (the Fourth), with Illustrations, quarto, price 21s, CAREFULLY REVISED, WITH NUMEROUS EMENDATIONS. The Directorium Anglicanum: Being a Manual of Directions for the Right Celebration of the Holy Communion, for the saying of Matins and Evensong, and for the Performance of other Rites and Ceremonies of the Church, ac- cording to ancient uses of the Church of England. Edited by the Rev. Frederick George Lee, D.C.L., F.S.A. “ The existence of one such work of credit and reputation must do something to diminish tli e varieties of Ritualism into which the tastes or studies of independent explorers might lead them.”—Guardian.