• WITH EIGHT ILLUSTRATIONS!. (1G) London: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E 0. Second Edition, crown 8vo., 384 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 4a, The Ocean Wave: Narratives of some of the Greatest Voyages, Seamen, Discoveries, Shipwrecks, and Mutinies of the World. By Henry Stewart, Author of “ Our Redcoats and Bluejackets,” etc. h „; .A.V0^ume of adventure. Rebellions and mutinies come jostling up against aml H,P r,n 0tSCapea “d mournfutdisasters; while the south seas and the north; the equator " Afl? PPli8' ar? brought to notice. —Bedfordshire Mercury. tle on enchanted prayer-carpet would not surpass in interest the ?l‘h„eae na^aUves from summer isles of Eden lying in dark purple spheres of sea to the iron coast of Nova Zembla. —Sheffield Independent. WITH EIGHT ILLUSTRATIONS BY FRANK ABELL. Large crown 8vo., 422 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d.; gilt edges, 4s. The Adventures of Maurice Drum- more (Royal Marines), by Land and Sea. By Lindon Meadows, Author of “ Whittling from the West,” “ College Recollections and Church Experiences,” etc. “It is almost equal to Robinson Crusoe.” —Shejjield Independent. “ It is thoroughly healthy, not ’goody’ in the least; in short, just such a book as one would wish to place in the hands of a pure- minded, high-spirited boy." — Nottingham Guardian. “We are inclined, after much delibera- tion, to call it the best book for boys ever written.”—Christian Leader. “ It would be a pity if the merits of such a story were lost in the crowd, and we trust it will receive the recognition which is its due.”—Aberdeen Daily Free Press. With Frontispiece, small cr. 8vo., 352 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 4s. The Glass of Fashion : A Universal Handbook of Social Etiquette and Home Culture for Ladies and Gentlemen. With Copious and Practical Hints upon the Manners and Ceremonies of every Relation in Life—at Home, in Society, and at Court. Interspersed with Numerous Anecdotes. By the Lounger in Society. ‘1 The most sensible book on etiquette that we remember to have seen.”—Pall Mall Gazette. “ Useful, sensibly written, and full of amusing illustrative anecdotes.”— Morning Post. “ Creditable to the good sense and taste, as weli as to the special information of its author. —Telegraph. WITH FIVE WOODCUTS, ILLUSTRATING “THE HAND OP GOOD FORTUNE,” ETC. Fourth Edition, crown 8vo., 304 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d. Your Luck’s in Your Hand ; or. The Science of Modern Palmistry, chiefly according to the Systems of D’Arpentigny and Desbarrolles, with some Account of the Gipsies. By A. R. Craig, M.A., Author of “ The Philosophy of Training,” etc. “ The glove-makers ought to present the author with a service of gold plate. He will be a rash man who lets anybody see his bare hands after this. We are anxious to find a lost pair of gloves before we go out for a breath of fresh air after such an exhausting study as this booK has furnished us."—Sheffield, and Rotherham Independent. “ ralmistry, chiromancy, and their kindred studies may be mystical indeed, but never unworthy. There is more in them than the mass imagine, and to those who care to wade into them, Mr. Craig will prove himself a capital guide.”—Manchester Weekly Post. “Gives the fullest rules for interpreting tne lines and marks on the hands, fingers, and wrists, as well as the points of character indicated by their shape.”—Bookseller. “ As in every book which Mr. Hogg has sent us, so in this ; we have to praise the typography, the paper, and the strong but also ornamental binding— Manchester Weekly Post,