London: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C. (15) WITH ONE HUNDRED ILLUSTRATIONS BY GEORGE THOMAS, ENGRAVED BY W. H. THOMAS. Large crown 8vo., 512 pp., cloth, 3s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 4s. Uncle Tom’s Cabin; or, Life among the Lowly. A Tale of Slave Life in America. By Harriet Beecher Stowe. With a Biographical and Critical Sketch of the Author (accompanied by Yignette Portrait and Auto- graph) by Alex. H. Japp, LL.D. Ijgr The Illustrations are from the Original Wood Blocks (now hr possession of the Publisher) which were prepared at great cost, Mr. George Thomas haying made a special visit to America so as to be accurate in detail and local colouring. They were originally used in the edition published by Nathaniel Cooke (Illustrated London News Office) in 1853, which is now a scarce hook. Large crown 8vo., 402 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d.; gilt edges, 4s. The Pilgrim’s Progress. In Two Parts. By John Bunyan. With Bibliographical Notes, and a Life of the Author, by Robert Southey ; Portrait and Auto- graph of Bunyan, and Thirty Wood Engravings by W. Harvey, from the Original Blocks. The Text in large type. " An excellent edition of the great allegory. It contains Southey’s 1 Life,' which certainly stands first for literary merit.”—Pall Mall Gazette. . ... ... .. " Costlier editions are on sale, but none produced with more taste than this one. —Dwpatcn. “A real service has been rendered for those who want a thoroughly readable copy of ihe Pilgrim’s Progress.' "—Literary World. .... , ... “This edition has exceptional claims upon public favour. The late poet laureates biography is in his best manner, while Harvey's effective woodcuts are in themselves a feature of very considerable interest to lovers of British art. In the matter of typography and general get-up the reprint is in every respect superior to the original edition, and the low price at which the book is published should tempt many to obtain a copy.”—Oxford Times. WITH TWELVE ILLUSTRATIONS BY THOMAS STOTHARD, R.A., AND A PORTRAIT OP DEPOE. In one volume, 512 pp., large crown 8vo., cloth, price 3s. 6d.; gilt edges, 4s. The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, of York, Mariner. With an Account of his Travels round Three Parts of the Globe. IS” A complete, unabridged Edition of both Parts, with no curtailment of the “ Further Adventures "It has every feature for becoming the boy’s favourite edition of 'Robinson Crusoe. School B >ard Chronicle. " This handsome volume cannot fail to command an extensive sale; it contains both parts of the immortal hero’s adventures, and is therefore properly styled a ‘ complete edition.’ A portrait and brief Memoir of Defoe precedes his tale.”—Manchester Weekly Post. "This edition of ‘boyhood’s classic’ will take rank among the best. Every boy should read 1 Robinson Crusoe,’ and will if he has the chance, and no better copy could he provided than the one published by Mr. Hogg.”— Wesleyan Methodist Sunday School Magazine. A NEW BOOK POE BOYS. WITH TWELVE ILLUSTRATIONS. Small crown 8vo., 384 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 4s. Master Minds in Art, Science, and Letters. A Book for Boys. By W. H. Davenport Adams, Author of “ The Secret of Success,” etc. “Skilfully adapted to the capacity of the young reader.”—Saturday Review. “ Mr. John Hogg is always successful in producing an attractive array of books for youthful readers, .... and we ought to add, that all his publications are prettily got up.”—Bristol Mercury.