(22) London: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C. NEW AND CHEAPER EDITIONS OF POPULAR BOOKS. In New and Handsome Cloth Bindings, 2s. 6d. each ; gilt edges, 3s. each. TJie Habits of Good Society: A Handbook of Etiquette for Ladies and Gentlemen. With Ihoughts, Hints,and Anecdotes concerning Social Observances Nice Points of Taste and Good Manners, and the Art of Making One 8 Self Agreeable. The whole interspersed with Humorous Illustrations of Social Predicaments, Remarks on the History and Changes of Fashion, and the Differences of English and Continental Etiquette. 2- Famous London Merchants : A Book for Boys. By H. R. Fox Bourne, author of 11 English Merchants,” “ English Seamen under the Tudors,” etc. With Twenty-four Illustrations. 3. Watchers for the Dawn, and other Studies of Christian Character. By Mrs. W. R. Lloyd, author of “ Pictures of Heroes and Lessons from their Lives,” etc. With Illustrations by James Godwin. 4. Adventures in the Ice : A Compre- hensive Summary of Arctic Exploration, Discovery, and Adven- ture. Including experiences of Captain Penny, the Veteran Whaler, now first published. By John Tillotson, author of “ Stories of the Wars,” “ Our Untitled Nobility,” etd. With Portraits and other Illustrations. 5. Pioneers of Civilisation. By John Tillotson, Author of “ Adventures in the Ice,” etc. A New, Cheaper and Revised Edition, with an Additional Chapter. With Eleven Illustrations. Contents.—The Soldier.—The Adventurer.—The Explorer.—The Man of Peace.—The Trader.—The Settler.—The Missionary.— Recent Pioneers. 6. Small Beginnings ; or, The Way to G-et On. A New and Cheaper Edition. With Eight Illustrations by C. A. Doyle. From the acorn springs the oak ; ‘' despise not the day of small things.” The biographical sketches collected in this volume show to what heights the earnest may aspire from the humblest beginnings: — John Walter from a printer’s apprentice rises to be proprietor of The Times; Brotherton from a factory-boy to sit as a respected member in the House of Commons. The other examples include—Sir Jamsetjee Jejeeblioy, George Heriot, Wedgwood and Minton, Girard, John Leyden, Francis Drake, Dupuytren, Lafitte, Montgomery, Breguet, and David Wilkie. IggT The 2/6 Series now numbers 22 Vols., see Catalogue. “ Mr. Hogg is to be congratulated on the healthy moral tone of his publica- tions."—Rev. C. H. Spukgeon.