London : John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C. (19) Fourth and Cheap Edition, with Twelve Portraits. Crown 8vo., 472 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 4s. Landmarks of English Literature. By Henry J. Nicoll, Author of “ Great Movements,” etc. " "We can warmly commend this excellent manual. Mr. Nicoll is a fair and sensible critio himself, and knows how to use with skill and judgment the opinions of other critics. His book has many competitors to contend with, but will be found to hold its own with the best of them.’’—St. James's Gazette. “ Mr. Nicoll’s facts are commendably accurate, and his style is perfectly devoid of pre- tentiousness, tawdriness, and mannerism, for which relief in the present day an author always deserves much thanks from his critics.”—Saturday Review. " Mr. Nicoll's well-arranged volume will be of service to the student and interesting to the general reader. Biography and history are combined with criticism, so that the men are seen as well as their works. . . . The copious and careful table of chronology gives a distinct value to the book as a work of reference. The volume is without pretension, and deserves praise for simplicity of purpose, as well as for careful workmanship.’’—Spectator. Second and Cheap Edition. with eight portraits, 464 pp., crown 8vo., cloth, price 3b. 6d. ; gilt edges, 4s. Great Movements, and those who Achieved Them. By Henry J. Nicoll, Author of “ Land- marks of English Literature,” etc. " A useful book Such work .... should always find its reward in an age too busy or too carelesB to search out for itself the sources of the great streams of modern civilization. ~-Times. An excellent series of biographies It has the merit of bespeaking our sympathies, not as books of this class are rather apt to do, on the ground of mere success, but rather on the higher plea of adherence to a lofty standard of duty.’— Daily News. “Immense benefit might be done by adopting it as a prize book for young people in the upper classes of most sorts of schools.”—School Board Chronicle. Second edition, small crown 8vo., 384 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d.; gilt edges, 4s. A Popular Technical Dictionary of Commercial and General Information. By Edward T. Blakely, F.S.A. (of the Board of Trade). “ Especially do we commend this Technical " A brief account of the principal natural and industrial products of tlie whole world.” —Glasgow Herald. [Daily News. “ Well adapted for educational purposes.” ” We know of no other book which would fill the place in the ordinary reference library which this volume will so satisfactorily occupy. It should certainly find a place in commercial schools as well as upon mer- chants’ tables.”—Bristol Mercury. Dictionary to young men about to enter com- mercial or official life.”—Monthly Review. "In view of the progress of Technical Education and the growing necessity of im- proved education in commerce, this is a valuable addition to ourworks of instruction, as well as to the commercial literature of the nineteenth century.”—British Journal of Commerce. Dainty Dishes. 3s. 6d. Seepage 7. Manuals of Self-Culture for Young Men and Women. J- The Secret of Success. See page 12. 2. Plain Living and High Thinking. See page 18. 8. Woman s Work and Worth. See page 4. 4. Hood s Guide to English Versification. See page 24. 6. Landmarks of English Literature. See page 19. S' § ^?.y.s Technical Dictionary. Seepage 19. '• Self-Help for Women. See page 4. . dOHN11OOO on the title-page of a publication is always a guarantee that it is wholesome and instructive as well as entertaining, and maybe eagerly welcomed into the most fastidious home. Mr. Hogg prints nothing but works of a high order, whose influence J or good is as evident as their artistic get-up, and whose price is as low as their interest is deep and healthful.”—Oldham Chronicle.