London : John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C. (G New, Revised, and Cheaper Edition, with Portraits, etc., price 6s. Thomas de Quincey: his Life and Writings. With Unpublished Correspondence. By Alexander H Japp. LL.D.. Author of “Memoir of Hawthorne,” etc., etc. “The sole original storehouse of biogra- phical information on De Quincey. . . . Dr. Japp is to be px-aised for having collected probably most things that are to be known about the Opium-eater.”—Saturday Review. “ An invaluable aid for the student of De Quincey and his genex-ation.”—Echo. “Dr. Japp has been enabled to give to this new edition a perfection and complete- ness lacking in its predecessor, good though that was."—Sheffield Independent. “The story of De Quincey’s life is un- woven with a literax-y gracefulness that charms the x'eader, and with a tact and balance that stamp it as one of the most delightful specimens of recent biography.” —Brighton Herald. “ Should it fall into the hands of one who has never met with De Quinoey, he will have abundant means for becoming well acquainted with him.”—Manchester Ex- aminer, “ It is a noble company into which Dr. Japp introduces his readers, men and women whose genius or talents have made them famoxxs, and who are seen at their best in these gossipy pages, filled with pro- found critical opinions, friendly recollec- tions, and pleasant correspondence. . . A most valuable addition to the biographical literature of the time, among the lovers of which it will long continue to hold an hon- oured place.”—Public Ledger, Philadelphia. 1 ‘ Among the new letters is one which throws fresh light upon the cordial relations existing between him and his publisher, Mr. James Hogg, sen.”—Bookseller. “Dr. Japp shows delicate discrimination and impartial judgment in his estimate and criticisms of one of the most remark- able of English men of letters."—Pub. Circ. “No doubt Dr. Japp’s work will now be accepted as the authoritative life of De Quincey."—Review of Reviews. Crown 8vo., cloth, price 4s. 6d. each. 1. Golden G-irls : A Picture Gallery. By Alan Mdie, Author of “ Children’s Children,” “ Lady Beauty,” etc. A New Edition, revised by the Author. With a Frontispiece by E. W. Burton. . “ 1 Golden Girls ’ is as pretty a story as Mr. Muir has written."—Athenceum. 2. A Noble Name, and How it was Up- held. The last Novel by the Aixthor of “Jennie of the Prince’s,” etc. A New and Revised Edition. With a Frontispiece by F. W. Burton. “It is long since we have x-ead anything which has chax-med and interested us more.”— Manchester Examiner and Times. 3. Soldiers’ Stories and Sailors’ Yarns. A Book of Mess-Table Drollery and Reminiscences picked up Ashore and Afloat, by Officers, Naval, Military, and Medical. Second and cheaper Edition. Illustrated by Harry Furniss, P. Macquoid, and D. H. Friston. “ We must read on till the last stoi'y is finished.”—Oldham Chronicle. 4. The Makers of British India. His- torical and Biographical. From 1600 to the Present Time. By W. H. Davenport Adams. With a Map and 12 Illustrations. (4s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 5s.) 1 ‘ Exactly the book that is wanted to give to English schoolboys an account of the way in which our Indian Empire was built up. The story is told in simple language, without any striving after effect, and the main facts are brought into proper relief, and xxot buried under a mass of detail."—Pall Mall Gazette. '1 Deserving of perusal by overy European in India.”—Allahabad Morning Post. 5. The Story pf Our Colonies. By H. R. Fox Bourne. With six Maps. (4s. 6d.; gilt edges, 5s.) “The story is told by Mr. Pox Bourne with _vigoxxr and freshness. A good book it is.”—Homeward Mail. “ It is a marvellous story of Bxitish enterprise, clearly, accurately, and plea- santly told.”—Weekly Dispatch. “ Excellent.”—Athenaeum. “ Boys—and their elders too, for that matter—will be as interested in this true story as in fiction.”—BraAJord Observer. “Admirably schemed and executed."— Glasgow Herald.