~ , WITH EIGHT ILLUSTRATIONS. (18) London : John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, EC. 1 ourfch edition, crown 8vo., 352 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 4s. Boys and their Ways: A Book for and about Boys. By One Who Knows Them. wle,,of conte“ts &i.ves such a bill of fare as will render the boy into whose hands this book falls eager to enjoy the feast prepared for him. ... We venture to nredict for this charming book a popularity equal to ‘ Self-Help.’ ... No better gift could be nut into Vorid.8 handS’ aDd U WlU become a standard work for the school library."-Scholastic It is a boy s book of the best style.”—Aberdeen Journal. WITH EIGHT ILLUSTRATIONS. Third edition, crown 8vo., 352 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d.; gilt edges, 4s. Girls and their Ways: A Book for and about Girls. By One who Knows Them. “It aims high, and it hits the mark.”—Literary World. careaKth™?/SilS0 B'^n ,botl‘for study and amusement. This list is selected with care and without Prejudice. and should prove a great,assistance to girls in doubt what to &iits for^n'l atoWrM. ' ,uU °£ inf°rmation “«» wholesome sively Heated^and’tmal.™?^itt^bi^U^kn'^l’edg^ an^sound Uidgmeiffi WITH EIGHT PORTRAITS. Dedicated by permission to the Rt. Hon. W.E. GLADSTONE, M.P., cfee. Fifth edition, crown 8vo., 384 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 4s. Plain Living and High Thinking; or, Practical Self-Culture : Moral, Mental, and Physical. By W. H. Davenport Adams, Author of “ The Secret of Success/’ etc. " We like the thorough way in which Mr. Adams deals with ’ Self-Culture: Moral, Mental, ana rnysical. His chapter on the courtesies of home life, and the true relation between parent and child, is specially valuable nowadays He certainly answers the question, Is life worth living ? in a most triumphant affirmative.”—Grayhw. Pook8 for young men are constantly appearing—some or them genuine, earnest, and useful, and many of them mere products of the art of book-making. We have pleasure in saying that this volume bv Mr. Adams deserves to take its place among the best of the first- mentioned class. It is fresh, interesting, varied, and, above all, full of common-sense, manliness, and right principle.”—Inverness Courier. V Young men who wish to make something of themselves should invest seven sixpences in this most valuable volume. —SworcZ and Troivel. ‘‘ A better book of the class in all respects we have seldom had the pleasure to notice. . . We cannot too strongly recommend it to young men.”— F. M. C. A. Monthly Notes. Medium 16mo., bevelled boards, gilt edges, interleaved, 432 pp., price 3s. 6d. The Birthday-Book of Art and Artists. Compiled and Edited by Estelle Davenport Adams, Editor of “ Rose Leaves,” “ Flower and Leaf,” etc. “ Few of the infinite variety of birthday I ought to secure a large share of the popu books have been planned more ingeniously, larity lavished on these pretty manuals.”— or to more useful purpose, than this, which I Glasgow Herald. Ascott R. Hope’s Books. 9 vols. 3s, 61. each. See page 10. “Mr. Hogg is a famous caterer in the way of hooks for youth. All his books are excellent of their class ; they are amply illustrated, and it seems as though Mr. Hogg had resolved to he the special caterer in healthy literature for the youngsters, and his publications are well adapted to the various stages of youth of both sexes."—Indian Daily News.