(4) London: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C. NEW HANDBOOK OF DOMESTIC MEDICINE, ETC. Crown 8vo., 496_'pp., cloth, price 6s. Man and his Maladies; or, The Way to Health. A Popular Handbook of Physiology and Domestic Medicine, in Accord with the Advance in Medical Science. By A. E. Bridges, B.A., M.D., B.Sc., F.R.C.P.E., Author of “ Depression,” etc. Part I.—THE SCIENCE OF MEDICINE. Part II.—THE ART OF HEALING. 11 This is an excellent book, which ought to be of great value in the homes of intelli- gent people.”—Manchester Examiner. “ The style of this book entices the reader at the outset. . . . It is a welcome advance on those of its kind which have gone before.’’—Glasgow Herald. “A comforting treatise ou disease The work is not so much philosophic as practical, being designed as a handbook to domestic medicine.”—Liverpool Courier. “It certainly is a departure from the usual style of books on the domestic treat- ment of disease We hope this book will be read by many.”—Literary World. “ A plain and intelligible handbook of physiology and home medicine abreast of the latest discoveries.”—Bookseller. “No house, especially in the country, should be without this excellent hand- book.”—Perthshire Advertiser. “It would perhaps be well for suffering, humanity if some of the views so ably ex- pounded were more generally held by. . . the medical profession.’’—Morning Post. “A sensible practical guide to physical well-being and the mental well-being which is so closely allied to it.”—Spectator. “ The book deserves to be not merely read but studied.”—Glasgow Daily Mail. WITH SIXTEEN ILLUSTRATIONS. Crown 8vo., 644 pp., cloth, bevelled boards, price 6s. ; gilt edges, 6s. 6d. “In Perils Oft.” Romantic Biogra- phies Illustrative of the Adventurous Life. By W. H. Daven- port Adams, Author of “ Plain Living and High Thinking,” etc. "The Author is no dry historian, and these stories of adventurous lives are sure to be popular.”—Standard. " The plan is admirable.”—Scotsman. "Fiction cannot hope to rival in interest the actual doings of these wonderful men, whose noble lives are an ornament to humanity.”—Bradford Observer. “A book to rouse a spirit of generous emulation in the young.’’—Christian World.1 ‘ ‘ Here surely is enough to set every boy in i the town longing to get hold of the book. — Sheffield Independent. [Herald. “The book is a capital one. —Glasgow "Well written, well printed, weU got up, and well illustrated.”—Guardian. Crown 8vo., 576 pp., cloth, price 6s. 6d.; gilt edges, 7s. Woman’s Work and Worth in Girl- hood, Maidenhood, and Wifehood. With Hints on Self- Culture and Chapters on the Higher Education and Employ- ment of Women. By W. H. Davenport Adams. " It is a small thing to say that it is excellent, and it is only .justice to add that this aU-im-. portant subject is dealt with in a style at once masterly, erudite, charming. Notes. P “ As an aid and incitement to self-culture in girls, and pure and unexceptionable in tone, this boipk may be very thoroughly recommended, and deserves a wide circulation. —English W"’lt isa^Sobferecord of the work of woman . . . . - and one of the very best books which can be placed in the hands of a girl.’ —Scholastic Ji orla. 120 pp., small crown 8vo., boards, price Is.; or bound in cloth, Is. 6d. Self-Help for Women: A Guide to Business. With Practical Directions for Establishing and Con- ducting Remunerative Trades and Business Occupations suitable for Women and Girls. By A Woman of Business. “ Her shrewd practical hints cannot fail to be of value to an increasing classi oi the community, the women who are left to fight their own way in the world, hcho. " A shilling laid out in the purchase of this little book will prove a far better invest- ment than the waste of postage stamps in. replying to letters.’’—Stationer.