5>M already stated, are mere depositions and not Organized : they really have not life, and partake of it only inasmuch as they are united to living parts ; and, moreover, they seem to he formed of a matter secre- ted and deposited liquid, of a gelatinous nature, probably differing but little from the Cellular Substance, and which becomes solid after- wards. It is a part of the body, if you will; but of a very secondary importance, and must be ranged in the same line as some of the products or secretions, rather than with the generating Anatomical Elements. I ought, also, to say something, here, on the Substance of complex organs ; and complex they all are, except the three Anatomical Ele- ments : that is, they are all formed of more than one of the three, and often of several of the Systems which these compose. The dif- ferent Systems, often called tissues when spoken of as component parts of a complex organ, are generally distinct in some parts of such an organ; but, in others they are so blended as not to be susceptible of separation; and, where they are so blended or combined, they form what is generally called its proper substance, tissue, or parenchyma. The lung, for instance, has its air tubes, formed of a mucous mem- brane (Mucous System) ; of contractile fibres (Muscular System); of fibrous membrane (Fibrous System); of cartilage (Cartilaginous Sys- tem) : they have the three orders of vessels (Arterial, Venous and Lymphatic Systems); they have nerves (Nervous System); and all these are held together by common cellular substance (Cellular System). Now, these may be distinctly seen in certain parts of the lung ; but we cannot follow them all in every part of it. They evidently be- come less and less distinct, more and more intimately combined till they seem blended into and constituting one substance. What we ought to signify, then, when we speak of the parenchyma of the lungs, liver, or of any complex organ, is that part of it in which all its Com- ponent Systems are so mingled into one Substance that they cannot be distinguished or separated. But, some authors make out, that this Complex Substance is some- thing superadded to the constituents; and they would say, that besides the. different systems which we have just enumerated as composing the lung, there is joined with them something more, which they call a particular parenchyma. But, this particular something exists only in their imagination. They are not satisfied with the Anatomical