30 number of images. Secondly, we require that it should be protected and its form preserved : You see how well the Sclerotica answers the purpose. But the light must pass through to the protected Retina: well, then, adapt to the front of this a transparent substance, a glass, and you have the Cornea translucida. Further, it is necessary these parts should be nourished with blood, so as not to interfere with such a delicate function : This has been affected by the delicate choroid coat. Again, the Light requires to be measured according to its intensity, and ad- mitted only in due quantity : and we see this same Choroid drop- ping down in the form of a curtain, and modified so that the light itself will draw it more or less according to circumstances. It is of great advantage that the light should be concentrated on the Retina in a proper focus, so that the image may be distinct: and for this pur- pose the lens is placed behind the iris. Finally, the proper distances between all these parts and the natural form of the organ must be preserved by transparent substances: and so they are by the aqueous and vitreous humours. And, thus we might synthetically construct the eye, in all its minute and beautiful contrivances, before we dissect- ed it. Now, let me ask, which of two students would have the best knowledge of it, he who proceeded according to this plan ; or he, who, without his mind prepared to intentness, dissected the organ without any reference to its functions ? Gentlemen, I have trespassed long on your attention; and this, of necessity, has been the lecture most trying to your patience of all I shall have to deliver; because it was my duty to make it as complete a foundation as possible for our future investigations: and, therefore, I have beeen compelled to press into it an immense number of facts. There has been little room for illustration or for any display of elo- quence, had the lecturer possessed it. Still, I take my leave of you with the conviction, that you consider Anatomy one of the most in- teresting as well as most important Sciences. A wide field is before you ; and, although some of its paths are rugged, difficult, and not without danger, there are flowers enough strewed in others to encou- rage you to proceed. Let it be your endeavour to make your- selves acquainted with all that is known in Anatomy, and to enlarge its boundaries by fresh discoveries. Hanover Street, Hanover Square.