24 piex Organ in its collective composition, (as when we say the Serous Tissue, the Tissue of the lungs,) it is necessary to designate these three materials as elementary, primary, or generating Tissues, if we call them Tissues at all. The second Anatomical Element is the Muscular Fibre, which pos- sesses the wonderful power of contracting or shortening, either at the will of the individual, or by some other stimulant. You know it well by sight and taste ; it forms the muscles or red parts of the meat at your tables. It seems always in the shape of cords. Examine mi- nutely any piece of flesh or muscle you please, and you will find that it consists of fibres, fibrils, or little red cords, united by cellular tis- sue : and each of these, viewed with a microscope, has the appear- ance of a series of globules. Blainville, however, denies that the mus- cular fibre is a linear series of globules. He considers the globular appearance to be an optical illusion : but, taking them to be globules, are they exactly the same as those of the blood ? The chemical com- position of the fibre seems to indicate it. It is formed almost entirely of Fibrine, and therefore of Oxygen 19-685, Hydrogen 7-021, Nitrogen 19-934, Carbon 53-360; but it contains also Osmazome, and perhaps Hematosine. The third, or last, solid Anatomical Element is the Nervous Mat- ters. You see here a kind of pulp: it is the brain of a Sheep. As I cut it through, you observe it to be white in one part, greyish in another; and this difference of colour probably indicates some difference in the substance. But, we consider it all as essentially the same, and call it Nervous Matter; because the nerves and the nervous ganglions, the brain, &c. are made of it. It exists, either in the form of a pulp, as you see it here, or of cords as you perceive it in the nerves In the latter case,it is enveloped with cellular substance sufficiently strong to form a sheath to each fibril in the cord; in the former, the cellular substance is so fine, that we judge of its existence only by analogy. This nervous matter, examined with a microscope, seems also to be .lobular; but, Blainville considers it rather as granular, or as an assem- blage of grains, or corpusculi, rather than of globules. According to Vanquelin,it consists of Water 80-000; Albumen 7-00; a white Oily Ma- ter4-53;aredOily Matter0-70;Osmazome 1-12;Phosphorus l-50;Su - phur 515; with traces of Phosphate of Lime and Magnesia; Phosphate of Potash and Chlorine of Sodium: that is of Oxygen, Hydrogen, Ni-