10 beautifully explained their facility of decomposition: The enormous difference in respect to solidity and durability between this muscle or portion of flesh, and that piece of marble is thus satisfactorily ac- counted for. The intimate disposition of the matter or substance constituted by the union of ultimate elements is very different in the two classes of Bodies : in the one—the Unorganized—it may be perfectly homoge- neous and entirely formed of solid particles: but, in the other class— in this Orange or this Bone—the three forms of matter, gazeous, solid and liquid, must co-exist; and the disposition of it is such, that it shapes itself to a kind of cellular arrangement or tissue which admits of whatever modifications may be necessary to form organs or parts more or less heterogeneous. This spongy or permeable arrangement of matter, in the areolae of which new molecules can penetrate, is one great characteristic of Plants and Animals. With regard to external form, it may be averred that the latter never present a perfectly straight surface ; in one direction, at least, they are always rounded or curved: there is nothing straight or stiff in Living Nature; but the Mineral Molecule is always limited by straight surfaces. But, the mode of growth or increase is, certainly, one of the most remarkable and distinguishing features of Organization. As was stated just now, the Mineral Molecule, once formed, admits of no growth; it is decidedly dead. Minerals do increase; but, the mode of augmenta- tion is altogether opposed to that by which Organized Beings grow. In the former, the increase is by layers or plates; and each Molecule is a Complete Mineral: whereas, in the latter, it is absolutely by nutrition ; fresh substance penetrating their very substance. In the one case, the increase is by super-position, by the attraction of the ichole body or Mineral, externally; in the other, it is by intus-susception or absorption of particles internally. There is no Organized Being, of each Molecule of which you can say, it is a complete Plant or Animal. This, in my opinion, is the leading feature of Organized Bodies, shews best their intimate nature, and constitutes their most distinctive cha- racter. Again, the limits to growth are definitely prescribed to Organized Beings; whilst, in the other Class, the increase taking place by the simple laws of ordinary attraction, Mineral masses go on augmenting indefinitely, in a manner more or less irregular and accidental. There