18 feel them, by the sudden motions we see it execute for a determinate purpose. We now approach the second object of our Lecture,—the fundamen- tal facts which belong to the structure of the Human Organism. To this the first has been, we repeat, a necessary preliminary. As you ad- vance in the study, you will feel, more and more, the value of the facts we have ascertained. They establish the truth of a direct and constant relation between the elements of the human body and those of the rest of the Universe; the latter constantly influencing the for- mer, and the former incessantly re-acting upon the latter: and, in this point of view alone, they are pregnant with important deductions and results, particularly as regards the preservation and restoration of health. They constitute, in fact, the true basis of the Medical Art, as well as that of the Science of Organization. It is our business to endeavour to become acquainted with the Hu- man Body by every means in our power, and more especially, by tak- ing it to pieces. In addition to the preceding facts, we should bring- to the examination all the other information we can obtain: know- ledge, speaking generally, is a means of acquiring knowledge; and the more we possess the more we can acquire. This applies more for- cibly to cognate branches of it; which, therefore, should be studied, as much as possible, at the same time: they go hand in hand and should be pursued together. However, this, of course, may be carried too far; but, to a reasonable extent, it is of great importance the medical pupil should blend those pursuits which throw light upon each other. Our chief duty here is to study the body mechanically by dissection. We ought also to investigate its intimate nature by Chemistry; to apply to its examination the principles of Natural Philosophy, in considering the influences exercised on it by other bodies of the universe ; to ob- serve it, during life, under the greatest possible number of circum- stances of health and disease; to bring to its study the knowledge derived from experiments upon living animals, made, of course, with the utmost caution to avoid pain, and therefore scarcely ever beyond the extent foreseen, d priori, to be useful for the ascertaining of any facts: and all this should be done in reference, as much as possible, to the races and varieties of Man; his position on the earth; his age. or period of developement and decline. This catalogue shows, we ought to embrace, at once, as many branches (especially neighbouring