LECTURE. Gentlemen, Standing in the place occupied for so many years, and with so much usefulness to Society, by the late Mr. Brookes; and seeing; before me a great number of those whom he instructed, and to whom much of his knowledge and celebrity have descended, I feel a weight of responsibility which would prevent my undertaking the duties of his successor, but for your kind assurances of support. This Museum once contained so many precious things—specimens so numerous and of such value—that it seems impossible they could have been collected and preserved by one man. At that time, the eulogy of Brookes had been easy: it was only to say, in the words of the epitaph inscribed in St. Paul's to the memory of its great archi- tect—"Do you seek his monument, look around you." These treasures, the result of unprecedented labor, have been scattered. Circum- stances compelled him, who spent all his fortune and almost all his life in their collection, to dispose of them, in a manner and at a time which cannot be recollected without deep regret. Still he, who in industry in his profession, was second to none, shall live honorably » the remembrance of Posterity; and the name of Brookes will be rnscnbed in the annals of Science with those of Buffon and Hunter. With this conviction, at once consolatory and encouraging ; and with the conscousness that the successful cultivation of Anatomy is the best tribute we can pay to the memory of Brookes, I proceed to in- troduce this Science to your study. if^m^ W t0 be d°ne " StlU'y °f ^ 8U^> is to **ne , to mark its l.mits as correctly as possible : so that it may be com- WhT ^ " Vs ^ PraCticab,e' «■*■« with other matters. natTs a « u ^ ^ *" itS C°mm°n acceptation, desig- nates, at once, e.ther the physical structure and composition of Man • or 1that rructure; or>one of the ~ °f -q-ing sue,; Zol, ^, ; t0 M Which iS 0fte" Cdled its etv- It f lt m°St aPpHcab,e ' b« * - d-ived from ava, and We have examples of these different significations when we say: a I