8 animals, each more advanced stage corresponding to an animal more important and complex, is real only to an extent accounted for by the circumstances of uterine life. There is no metamorphosis. The be- lie! that there is, must have sprung from the natural tendency men have to try to increase the interest of a favourite subject: but, surely, the facts observed in the growth of the foetus are interesting enough to require no such forced interpretation, The facts, and laws or principles of Organization, which I wish now to bring before you, as a foundation for your particular pursuit, will flow in natural order as we proceed to enquire, iuto the nature of or- ganisms generally. They are involved in the great question, which it is the first and chief object of this lecture to answer, namely :—What are Organized Beings ? The answer can be furnished only by comparison. We must seek it in a comparative enquiry. At first sight, this may seem a short and easy task. There appears, at first, to be no difficulty in distinguishing those bodies of the Universe which have life and organs from those which have not: there seems between them so wide and palpable a difference. The distinguishing characters of these Inert Substances on one side of the table, and of those Plants and Animals on the other, seem so glaring that you would not hesitate a moment to say to which Class almost any one of them belongs. But, this occurs only upon a superficial view. If you were asked to explain how they differ, and examined them minutely, you would find the task neither short nor simple; and, after the examination, you might be in great doubt where some of them ought to be placed; whether they belong to the Mineral, the Vegetable, or the Animal kingdom. There appears but little dif- ference between this Coral and that Mineral, and who would believe, if the fact were not known, that this Sponge contained and was composed of a multitude of animals? The more closely we examine, the better conception we form of the nature of the three great Classes of Bodies; but it is a remarkable truth, that the farther we pursue the enquiry, the less real or essential differences do we find between them. Thus, Che- mistry, (for I begin with their chemical composition, and first with the distinctive characters between Organized and Unorganized Bodies) which affords the minutest mode of positive analysis the human mind is capable of employing to detect their intimate nature, shews in them a much nearer resemblance than we could possibly have ima-