12 powerful and permanent, that some Crystals absolutely evince a ten- dency to last for ever. How different is it with Organized Bodies ! they are all transient; they decay by internal change, by alteration in the substance of their organs : and, at some time or other of their ex- istence, or at death, their elements are employed to constitute new beings, images of themselves. These data, Blainville, whom, in this ex- position, I could not do better than follow, embodies in his admirable definition of an Organized Being. He defines it, in contradistinction to an Unorganized one, a moveable combination of a certain number of elements; having a cellular structure; assuming a more or less round form; taking its somewhat spontaneous origin from a like being; growing by absorption; decaying by a kind of exhalation; (the internal decay he supposes to occur by a sort of exhalation) and perpetuating its likeness in time and space; inasmuch, as certain of its elements do, by combination under particular circumstances, produce a new being like itself. With this model you can easily construct the definition of an Unorganized Body. It would be a fixed combination of a smaller number of elements ; having an homogeneous structure ; as^ suming a geometrically straight form; originating not from a similar body ; itself increasing not, but being in aggregation with like bodies added by super-position; possessing a tendency to permanency ; and, when decomposed, (which may happen from external influence,) pro- ducing not another like itself. Our inquiry into the nature of the different Bodies of the Universe, thus far pursued, has enabled us, then, to learn, to a certain extent, what Organized Beings are; in fact, to distinguish and to define them. By carrying it still farther, our knowledge of them will become propor- tionately more complete and satisfactory. We shall find, that some of them are endowed with motion much more extensive, and much less immediately depending on external circumstances than others; and, yet, that they evince the faculty of feeling these circumstances. They constitute the Animal Kingdom: the others are Vegetables. An examination of the differences between these two classes of Living Beings will furnish us with the other numerous facts or data neces- sary for the completest possible understanding of the nature of Orga- nized Beings, and of Man, who, although raised above them all, is still, in physical structure, one of them: and, therefore, necessary to (he Anthropotomist; because, I repeat, they give the principles, and