27 compose the organs of the body; how, out of only three, in a solid state, alone or combined, and always imbibing more or less fluid, the different Systems are made. We find that Oxygen, Hydrogen, Nitro- gen and Carbon, forming as they do Albumen, Fibrine, and all the other immediate principles or immediate Chemical elements, are the es- sential, ultimate Chemical elements of these Anatomical elements, and of all the Fluids : and, therefore, compose the Human Body as they compose all other Animal Bodies; the other ultimate elements, such as Sulphur, Phosphorus, &c. being less essential. In other words, these ultimate Elements compose the three primary solids (the Cellular Sub- stance, the Muscular Fibre, the Nervous Matter) and all the fluids. The three solids with the fluids compose all the organs, (which we unite in Systems,) and the assemblage of these constitute the Human Body. Before concluding this part of the subject, I ought to mention to you, that Physiologists are not all agreed about the number of solid Anatomical Elements to which the organs may be reduced. Meckel carries the mechanical analysis farther than we have done; and holds that the whole body, Solids and Fluids, are resolvable into two Ana- tomical Elements—Globules and a Matter which he calls Coagulable, and which is sometimes coagulated, sometimes fluid. The Globules never exist alone ; they are always united to the coagulated matter, whether in the Solids or Fluids. United in a linear series by the second element, then in a coagulated state, they constitute the Nervous Matter and Muscular Fibre ; and swimming in the same element, then in a fluid state, they constitute the blood. The Coagulable Matter may exist alone ; it alone forms the cellular tissue, and the numerous systems which this composes. In other words, Gentlemen, Meckel makes out that the Nervous Matter and the Muscular Fibre we admit as primary Anatomical elements, are composed of Globules and Co- agulable matter ; and that our third element, the Cellular Substance is this matter: so that, in reality, the difference between us is not great We prefer the view we have taken, because it is not yet suf- ficently demonstrated, that the Muscular Fibre and the Nervous Mat- ter are really composed of Globules. I take( this occasion to mention that some Anatomists admit a fourth so ul element which they call the Corneous or Horny Substance, and which composes the cuticle, nails and hair; but these, as I have