16 plant or animal, making part and parcel of their intimate substance, is ho doubt performed, in both, through the same influence, which, in our judgment, closely approaches to Chemical affinity—an affinity perhaps stronger in vegetables, since, of the two kinds of beings, they offer the greater resistance to decomposition. In respiration, Animals absorb Oxygen, and emit Carbon : Vege- tables, on the contrary, seem, after absorbing Carbonic acid, to exhale the Oxygen, and to retain the Carbon. I say seem, because we have proof of their inhaling it only in their green parts, and that under the direct influence of the Sun's rays ; but, if it were absolutely true, we should have a character whereby to distinguish, at once, the two, kingdoms. The Mode of Growth is very similar in Animals and Vegetables. Both grow by their extremities first increasing in length, and then in other diameters, in all living parts: the unliving ones, as we have had occasion to observe, increase, by mere deposit, like Minerals; except, that in the latter, the new matter is superadded externally, and in the former internally. The nails, for instance, grow by new mat- ter deposited at their inner surface. The Mode of Decrease or Decay is very much the same in the two kingdoms ; and the processes, by which they are, as it were, taken to pieces, Blainville considers to depend on a kind of exhalation of matter. That wonderful function by which the Species is preserved, more or less at the sacrifice of the Parent Individual, and which, in recomposing the new being, evidently decomposes in some measure, the old one, is essentially of the same kind; and even, in the particularities of the organs executing it, there are some remarkable coincidences. Finally, Gentlemen, I have to call your attention to the existence, in the Animal kingdom, of two substances which cannot be detected in the Vegetable world—the Nervous matter and the Muscular fibre. To these they owe sensation and motion ; to these they owe the high faculties of feeling external influences, and of moving more or less inde- pendently of them, that is, with a certain degree of spontaneousness or voluntariness, so as to avoid what is deleterious and approach what is useful. Where you find these potent materials, you may be sure there is Sensation and Motion ; you may be sure you have to do with an animal. Still, even here, natures great rule of gradual modification