17 has not been departed from. These tissues, I dare say, do not begin abruptly in the series of Organized Beings : for, certainly, the func- tions they execute do not. We know that there are some Beings both Animal and Vegetable, possessing spontaneity of motion, in which they cannot be detected. Although, then, the Muscular and Nervous substances are the great characteristics of animals, since in them alone they palpably exist, the old and supposedly obvious distinction be- tween the two kingdoms afforded by sensation and motion, is good only in degree. Vegetables evidently evince the want or destiny of reproduction in their generating organs; and, as many of the lowest animals appear to enjoy voluntary motion—to move, in some of their parts, to or from bodies, according as they are beneficial or injurious— and, yet, have neither nerves nor muscles apparent to us, we cannot deny a sort of approximation, even in these great functions. It is right to observe here, that, in general, the kind of motion of which Vegetables possess the power, hardly deserves that name; for, it is ex- ecuted by the direction of new parts as they grow, and not as in all animals, by a sudden change of place of their entire or of some parti- cular part. This terminates our inquiry into the nature of Organized Bodies. These are the chief facts which enable us to answer, as far as the pre- sent state of Science allows, the question proposed at the beginning of this lecture: namely, what are Organized Beings ? Blainville, with his usual ingenuity, has endeavoured to sum up the most im- portant of them in distinctive definitions, of which you now know the constituents, and which I think it would be difficult to improve with- out lengthening them to an inconvenient extent. He defines a Vege- table to be:-an Organized Body, strongly Carbonized; capable^f nourishing and reproducing itself; most frequently compound; without intestinal canal; without muscular or nervous matter; and, conse- quently, digesting not; moving not; feeling not its relations with exter- nal bodies, although it may sometimes/appear to feel (hem, by the slow and gradual changes we see it offer for a determinate end. He defines an Animal, on the contrary, to be :—an Organized Body, strongly Ni- trogenized; almost always simple; always possessing an alimentary canal; and, probably, always, nervous and muscular fibres, which are most frequently visible; consequently, digesting its food; feeling more or less Us relations with external bodies; and showing that it does c