25 trogen, and Carbon, as essential elements; of Phosphorus, Sulphur, and a small proportion of salts as accessory ones. With these three materials or Elementary Tissues, of which the two last, conferring sensation and motion, are peculiar to animals, you will conceive, at once, how the different Systems are made. The Cellular Element, alone, as we have pointed it out to you, taken as a whole, con- stitutes a System, and is called the Cellular System. Condense the Cellu- lar Substance into a very thin membrane, disposed as a pouch or bag, and you have the Serous and Synovial Systems : condense it less, and modify it so that it offers follicles, and it gives you the Mucous Mem- branes, or the Mucous and Cutaneous systems: take it in a larger quantity, and still, condense it firmly, and it forms the Fibrous System, or all the fibrous parts of the body: give it another arrangement, and you find it constitutes the Cartilaginous and Fibro-cartilaginous Sys- tems : add to this the earthy salts or the requisite accessory elements charge it with Phosphate of Lime—and you have the Bones or Osseous system: dispose it so as to make tubes, and it furnishes the Lymphatic system : Add to these tubes a little of the second element, or Muscular Fibre, and the Arterial and Venous systems are constructed. Now, take the second element, the muscular fibre : multiply it; add to it the proper sheath of cellular element; then dispose it as a canal, and you have the sub-mucous muscular system: multiply it still more, and join with it the due quantity of cellular substance, and the Volun- tary System of muscles is composed. Thirdly. Employ the nervous matter. Let it be collected in a pulpy mass, with an extremely minute quantity of cellular substance, and you have the Cerebrum, Cerebellum, and Spinal Marrow : add more of the cellular element, and you produce the nervous ganglions of the viscera: let it be disposed in cords, each cord surrounded with the cellular element in the shape of a sheath, and it makes the Nerves. Thus, gentlemen, what appears complex and difficult when pre- sented in an insulated and immethodical manner, becomes simple and easy in the extreme when viewed scientifically. Having explained to you what are the three solid, Anatomical Ele- ments of the Body, and how they compose all the solid parts or organs, and System of Organs, I must add a word or two respecting the fluids. I have already mentioned that the two are inseparable ; that the solids as we have described them, are always imbibed with a certain quantity