The University Library Leeds ik'Tik LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: mm f\ CAL 0106 9822 D0GKEB*Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21526308A J/,ii Aij/'t/ f/'u/jci/^>r Tiv/uZ/jk. I ftHttv t>j-A ,r/'// /fir HotLift'/iy t>/ <T I- Be/Mio. 1 (scctse /I i 71'/{ [llj!the frugal housewife, Gravies, Sauces, Roafting, Boiling, Frying, Broiling, Stews, Haihes, Soupv, Fricaffecs, Ragoos, Complete Woman Cook. W H E R E I K The Art of dreffing all Sorts of VIANDS, with Cleanlinefs, Decency, and Elegance, Is explained in Five Hundred approved Receipts, in Pafties, Pies, Tarts, Cakes, Puddings, Syllabubs, Creams, , Flummery, Jellies, Giams, and Cultards. Together with the Best Methods of S2S,. I $ ”■>*. Preferring, $ £ SS3f«f* And Making of ENGLISH WINE S, -r wr T° which are added, fauZ . LJJ W P « > N T S, w«i, ,arlous eills op fare By SUSANNAH CARTER of e£««MNw,'h. ~ fc——— London- 5 tinted for E. Newbft! v „ „ „ ’ * Cthurch-Vard. PaUl*STo the READER. IN this revifed and correfled Edition of the Frugal Housewife, feveral confiderable improvements have been made, which will be obvious upon a perufaL— It was alfo fuggefted to the author, that, as the chief excellence of all Cookery confifts in a perfect acquaintance with the making of Gravies and Sauces, it would be proper to place thefe Chapters at the Beginning of the Volume, and to prefix a Number to each; whereby, when the young Cook confults any Receipt fhe may want, fhe will not only be informed what fauce fhe is to ferve it up with, but will' be referred to the Number and page where that Sadce may be found. i -iAlphabetical INDE X. GRAVIES and SAUCES. General Dire Sion; for Page xo Sauce for roaft meat Page -5 Sance, a landing one 4 1 Anchovy Sauce Apple Sauce 8 Bread Sauce 9 Butter to melt 6 Butter to burn 6 Cellary Sauce 7 Cellary Sauce, brown 7 Egg Sauce 7 ElTence of Ham 4 Filh Sauce ii Gravy, to draw I Gravy, white 1 Gra y, without Meat 2 Gravy, for a Turkey or Fowl Gravy, to make Mut-1 ton,eat tiki’ 'Venifon J Gravy for a Fowl \.hen\ you have no Meat Gravy for Filh Lobfter Sauce Lemon Sauce Mint Sauce Mu lit room Sance for roafted or boiled Onion Sauce byfter Sauce Pap Sauce Parfley Sauce Parfley Sauce, when no , Parfley can be got Shallot Sauce Shrimp Sauce Sauce, a pretty one for' boiled Fowls Sauce for Fifli Pies Sauce for fweet Vies Sauce for favoury Pies 5 Venifon Of ROASTING. Beef Cod’s Head Duck, Tame Duck, Wild Eels Fowls Fowls with Chefnuts Fowls the German Way Goofe Goofe with Green Sauce Hare Lamb Larks Mutton Mutton Venifon Mutton, Breaft of, with Force-meat Ortolans Partridges Phealants Pig Pigeons Pike Plovers Pork Pork, Chine of, fluffed Quails Rabbits Rabbits, Hare Fafliion Ruffs and Reefs Snipes Teal Turkey Turkey with Chefnuts Tongue and Udder Veal 22 24 £ I 2 5 19 24 19 20 17 >4 2.3 13 1 3 i'3 24 21 22 16 21 25 2 3 J5 16 22 18 it 24 22 2 r 19 20 *4 14 ‘7 Wigeani [UNIVERSITY library lebds.I N D E w ige-ons Woodcocks Page 21 22 Of BOILING, Artiehoaks Afparagus Beans, French Beans, Broad Beef Brocoii Cabbage Calf’s Head Carp Ca' rots 43 42 44 44 26 4+ 45 27 3 x. Snipes Soals Spinach Sprouts ' Sturgeon Tench Turbot Turkey- Turnips Turtle Veal Venifon Woodcocks Chickens 3° Of F R Y I N C Cod 24 Artichoke Bottoms Cod’s Head 34 Beef Collops Cr.mp Cod 34 Beef Steaks Colliiiower 43 Calf’s Liver and Bacon 19 tick* 29 Carp Eels 39 Cellary Floundere 36 Colliflowers Fowls 29 Eels Goofe 29 Eggs as round as Balls Ham 28 Flac Fifh Lamb 28 Herrings Mackrel 38 Lamb, Loin of Mutton 26 Lampries Neat's Tongue 38 Mutton Cutlet* Partridges 32 Onions Parfnips 47 Oyfters Peas, Green 45 Parfley Pheafanrs 32 Potatoes Pigeons 31 Saufages with Apples Pike 39 Scotch Collops Plaice 36 Small FiHO Pork, Leg of 26 Tench Pork, Pickled 27 Tripe Potatoes 48 Trout Rabbits 3i Veal Cutlets Rabbits with Onions 31 Veal, cold Salmon 36 Sweetbreads and Kid- Scate 35 neys Page 3 r 35 45 45 36 33 33 29 46 39 2 7 29 U 59 St 49 53 51 59 59 56 53 56 56 49 57 52 60 58 60 60 5<* 51 57 54 4* 55 52 jo 53 BROILING. ♦index* BROILING. Beef Steaks Page 60 Chickens 6t Cod 62 CodTs Sounds 63 Eels 63 Eels fpitchcocked 64 Eggs 64 Haddocks 62 Herrings 62 Mackrei 62 Mutton Chops 60 Pigeons 61 Pork Chops 60 Salmon '62 Whitings 62 STEWING. Beef Beef Collops Beef Gobbets Beef Stakes Breaft of Veal Brisket of Beef Cabbage Carp or Tench Chickens Cod Cucumbers Ducks Eels Eggs and Spinach Fowl or Turkey Giblets Hare Hare to jug Knuckle ot Veal Lettuce and Peafe Mufcles or Oyiters Mushrooms Murton Chops Neck or Leg of Mutton Neck of Veal Ox Palates Oyflets or Mufcles 64 67 65 66 68 65 77 73 7i ' 7+ 77 76 7* 73 7° 7 o 63 77 7 S 78 69 69 63 66 75 Parfnips Page Peafe with Lettuce 77 Pears 78 Pig 69 Pigeons 71 Pigeons to jug 72 Spinach and eggs 76 Tench or Carp 73 Turkey or Fowl 71 Veal in geneial 67 Wild Fowl 73 HASHES. Beef 79 Brain Cakes Hr Calt’s Head, brown or 7 Hi white i ; 82 Fowls 83 Hare 83 Lamb’s Head and Pluck. 80 Mutton 79 Mock Turtle 82 Veal, to mince Ho SOUPS. Gravy Soup 84 Giblet Soup 8+ Peafe Soup 8S Green Peafe Soup 86 White Portable Soup 86 Brown Portable Soup 8-7 Vermicelli Soup 89 Soup Lorraine 89 Sorrol Soup with Eggs Afparagus Soup 91 Craw-fiih Soup 92 Oyfter Soup 92 Eel Soup 92 Brown Soup 93 White Soup 93 Onion Soup 94 R ce Soup 9S Turnip Soup 95 Soup Meagre 96 1 fricassees,INDEX. FCTCASEES. Artichoke Bottoms 107 Calf’s Head 98 Calf’s Feet 99 Chickens, white. 103 Chickens, brown 103 Cod 104 Eggs, white or brown 106 Flounders 10J Hare 102 Lamb, brown or white 99 Lamb - Hones and ? Sweetbreads f 100 Mu lb rooms 107 Neat’s Tongue 97 Ox Palates 97 Pig’s Ears IOI Pig’s Pettitoes 101 Pigeons 104 Plaife 105 Rabbits, white 102 Rabbits, brown 1°3 Soals 105 Sweetbreads 99 Tench, white or brown 10 S Tripe 98 •RAGOUTS. A rich Ragout III Ragouts fdr made Dirties 111 Beef, called Beef 1 I 08 a-ia-mode _ / Ereait of Veal I08 Fggs I 12 Hog’s Feet and Ears I 10 Leg of Mutton I IO Neck of Veal IQ9 Oyfters I 13 Snipes 1 1 I Sturgeon 112 Veal Sweetbreads JIO PASTRY. Pafte for Tarts JI4 Puff Pafte M4 Pafte for raifed Pie9 it* Pafte for VenifonParties 11c Pafte Royal US Pafte for Ctiftards riS Artichoke Pie 123 Apple Pye 123 Battalia Pie 119 Calf’s Head Pie 120 Carp Pie 121 Chicken Pie . n8 Cherry Pie 124 Eel Pie 122 Egg Pie 120 Flounder Pie 122 Goofberry Pie 124 Hare Pie 11 > Hen Pie 18 i Lamb Pie 116 Lamb Pie, with Currants 116 Lamb-ftones' and ? .. Sweetbread Pie i 110 Lamprey Pie 122 Lumber Pie 116 Minced Pie 120 Mutton Pie 117 Neat’s Tongue Pie 120 Oyfter Pie 12 1 Pear Pie ^23 Pigeon Pie ‘ 1T9 Plumb Pie 124 Potatoe Pie 123 Shrewlbury Pie 116 Sweet Chicken Pie 118 Trout Pie 122 Turkey 119 Venifon Pie 120 Veal Pie 117 Umble Pie US TARTS of divers Kinds; Iceing for Tarts 126 Almond Tarts 127 Apricot Tarts I25 Apple Tarts J2S Lemon Tarts T ,2S LemonI N D E X. Lemon Puffs Page 127 Prune orDamfon Pudding 146 Orange Tarts 125 Apple Pudding 142 Orange Puffs 127 Baked Pudding >43 Pear Tarts 125 Bread Pudding, baked Millet Pudding >43 >43 CAKES. Marrow Pudding >43 Rich Cakes 128, 120 Rice Pudding >44 Spanifh Cake 129 Poor Man’s Pudding >44 Portugal Cake 129 Orange Pudding >45 Dutch Cakes 130 Carrot Pudding Hf Shrewlbury Cakes 130 Quince, Apricot, or \ 146 Marlborough Cakes >3> white Pear Plumb > Queen Cakes >31 Pudding Uxbridge Cakes 131 Italian Pudding 146 A Pound Cake 132 Apple Pudding, baked 146 Seed Cake 132 Norfolk Dumplings >47 Almond Cake 132 Hard Dumplings >47 Saffron Cakes >33 Apple Dumplings >47 Orange Cakes >33 Common Bifcuits >34 SYLLABUBS, CREAMS. Whigs >34 and FLUMMERY. 1 Buns >35 A fine Syllabub >47 Maccaroons 1 35 Whipt Syllabub 148 Fritters * 3 3 A fiim Cream. ,148 Pancakes 136 Lemon Cream 148 Cheefe-cakes 136 Rafberry Cream r+8 Cheefe-cakes without ? Whipt Cream >49' Rennet ^ >37 A Trifle >49 Poiatoe or Lemon > >37 Flummery >49 Cheefe-cakes J Oatmeal Flummery. > 5° PUDDINGS. JELLIES, GIAMS, and A plain boiled Pudding 138 CUSTARDS. Light Pudding >38 Calf’s Feet Jelly 151 Quaking Pudding 129 Hart’s Horn Jelly 1 S,i Bifcuit Pudding 139 Currant Jelly 1 52 Plumb Pudding, boiled >39 Rafberry Giam >52 Tunbridge Pudding 140 Cuftards >53 Cuftard Pudding 140 Quftards boiled 151 Hunting Pudding 140 Almond Cuftards 153 Suer Pudding, boiled Steak Pudding 140 141 Rice Cuftards >54 Potatoe Pudding, boiled 141 POTTING. Almond Pudding, boiled 141 Beef >54 >55 Help Kice Pudding, boiled 142 Cliarr*INDEX. 'gels Page 155 Mufhrpotns Page i6j Fowls 154 Naftertion Buds, or Seed 164 : Lampreys 15 5 Onions 167 Pigeons 154 Radifh Pods 166 Trout *55 Samphire 166 Venifon 154 Wainucs 16S COLLARING. Beef 155 Breaft of Veal 156 Bread of Mutton 156 'Eels *57 Porlc 15 7 PRESERVING. Angelica, to candy 163 Apricots, to preferve 160 Apricots, green 160 Beans,French all theYear 158 Eullace >58 Cherries >6> Cherries, to dry 163 Currants, to preferve 162 Damfons, to preferve 158 Goofeberries >59 Marmalade,' to make 159 Mulberries, to preferve 166 Peaches, to dry Peaches, to preferve Peas, till Chriftmas Plumbs Ralberries PICKLING. Afparagus Barberries Beans, French l67 Cabbage Cucumbers Ibs Mangos of Melons lb4 160 157 158 162 MADE WINES. Goofeberry Wjae 168 Currant Wine 169 Raifin Wine 169 Raiberry Wine 1 70 Morelia Wme 170 Elder Wine i;o Cowllip Wine 171 Mead 1 n Balm Wine liz Birch Wine 172 Orange Wine * 73 Apricot Wine 173 Damfon W ine 173 Sage Wine >74 Quince Wine 174 Lemon Wine >75 Barley Wine >75 Plumb Wine 176 Palermo Wine >’/6 Clary Wine 1/6 Orange Wine with Raifins 177 Frontiniac 1/7 Englifli Champaign 178 Saragofa, or Sack 178 Mountain Wine 17S Cherry Brandy >78 Shrub >79 Milk Punch >79 To recover Wine 180 To fine Wine 1 So To clear Wipe 180 A Bill-BILL of I- A R E, for tvery Month in the Year. In y A N u A R r. Dinner. B E,EF SOUP, made of brisket of beef ; and the beef lerved up in the difli. ‘Turkey and chine roafted, wick gravy and onion fauce ; minced pies. Or, Achbone of beef boiled, and carrots and favoys, with melted butter j ham, and fowls roaited, with rich gravy: tarts. ^ Or, Vermicelli Soupfore quarter of lamb and fallad in feafon ; JrtJh Jahwn n fufficienu quantity boiled, with fmelts fried, and lob Iter fauce; minced pies. Supper. Chickens fricafeed ; wild ducks with rich gravy fauce • piece of Jiuriton or brawn, tend mined pies. A hare with a pudding in his belly, and a ftrong gravy and «laret fauce ; hen turkey boiled, with oyiter fauce and Lou aauce ; brawn or mincedi)iesh In FEB RU A R r. - Dinner. °f mutm roafted, with pickles; calf’s- -u" w boiled, wkh/Sach!fted5 ^ W 5 °f la* ,viL f ffjhfalmon, with lobfler fauce, and garnifhed :s %%^;SuJsz: • — - W d.cU,.f‘ff,lA grav, . „„,adpia. l&JStfS: in march. V arc Dinner. withL4 l£pandanhd0rfe(rat!ifh '° ga;nifll the ■, Jalt-fish ^r ; /LL/4? putatoes^or parfnips, with melted but- and/9W/; roafted ; «jrrOW cv_A Bill of Fare for every Month in the Tear. Or, teg of mutton boiled, with turnips and caper fauce •, rod boiled, with oyfter fauce, and garniilied with horfe-rauiih; a bread-pudding. Supper. Scollop or fried oyjlers ; leg of lamb, with fpinach ; tarts and Jruit. Or, Fricafee of Coxcombs, lamb (tones, and fweetbreads; pigeon pic," and marrow pudding. In APRIL. Dinner. Ham, and Chickens roafted, with gravy fauce ; a piece of boiled beef, and carrots and greens. Or, A roafted shoulder of veal ftuffed, and melted butter ; a leg of pork boiled, and pcafe pudding. Or, A dilh of fish, (as in feafon) ; roaji beef garnilhed with horfe-radifli, and plymbpudding. Supper. ■ Fricafee of lamb-ftones and fweetbreads, or fucking rab- bits ; roafted pigeons and afparagus. °r, Boiled fowls and bacon, or pickled pork, with greens ?nd butter melted , a baited plumb pudding, or tarts. In M A T. Dinner. _ Bef foup, with herbs well boiled fillet of veal well fluff- ed and roafted ; a ham boiled. Or, Rump rf beef falted and boiled, with a fumme? c^1’^ 5: fresh Salmon boiled; and fried fmelts to garnilh the ddh, with lobfter or ihrimp fauce. Or, a„d , difh Saddle of mutton roafted, with a fpring fall , of fifli. Ducklings roafted, with gravy fauce; Scotch colbps, with mufhrooms, &c. tarts. Or, Green goofc, with gravy fauce,; collared cel , In JUNE. Dinner. Leg of graft lamb boiled, with capers, carrots 1 £ nips ; JhouUhr or neck of venijon roafted, With rich gravy and claret'fauce ; marrow pudding* or.A Bill of Fare for every Month in the 7 ear. Or, Saddle of graf lamb roafted, with mint fauce and turnips; turbot boiled, with fhrimp and anchovy fauce ; a quaking pudding. Or, A Haunch of venifott roafted, with rich gravy and claret fauce ; tarts. Supper. Fricafee of young rabbits, roaft fowls and gravy l'auce ; goof berry tarts. Or, Mackerel boiled, with plain butter and mackerel herbs; leg of lamb boiled and fpinach. In JULY. Dinner. Green goofe, with gravy fauce ; neck of veal boiled, witlt bacon and greens. Or, Roafted pig, with proper fauce of gravy and brains, pret- ty well feafoned ; mackerel boiled, with melted butter and herbs ; green peafe. Or, Mackerel boiled, with melted butter and herbs; fore quar- ter of lamb, with faliad of cofs lettuce, &c. Supper. Chickens roafted, with gravy or egg fauce; loljiers or prawns; green geefe. Or, Stewed carp ; duellings, with gravy fauce, and peafe. In AUGUST. Dinner. Ham, and fowls roafted, with gravy fauce ; beans. Or, Neck of venifon, with gravy and claret fauce ; frejh [almost, with lobfter fauce ; apple pie, hot and buttered. , °r> Beef a la-mode ; green peafe ; haddock boiled, and fried flu •r founders to garnilh the dith. Supper. White fricafee of chickens ; green peas ; ducks roafted, with gravy fauce. Or, Chickens os pigeons roafted, withafparagus ; artichokes, with melted butter. In SEPTEMBER. Dinner. Green peafe Jo up ; breafi of veal roafted; boiled plain-pud- ding. Or, Leg of lamb boiled, with tui-nips,. fpinach, and caper fauce ; goofe roafted, with gravy, muftird, and apple fauce; and pigeon-pie. Supper.A Bill of Fare for every Month in thi Year. Supper. Boiled pullets, with oyfterfauce, greens and bacon ; difii of fried foies. Or, A leveret, with gravy fauce ; -wild ducks, with gravy fauce and onion fauce ; apple pie, In OCTOBER. Dinner. , Cod’s head, with fhriinp and oyfter fauce; knuckle of veal and bacon, and greens. Or, Leg of Mutton boiled, with turnips and caper fauce; Scotch tolhps ; frejh falmon boiled, with fhritnp and anchovy fauce. Or, Calf’s head dreffed turtle fafhion ; roaft beef, with horfe- raddifh ; beef foup. Supper. mid ducks, with gravy fauce; fcollopei oyfers; minced pics. Or, Fried fmelts, with anchovy fauce ; boiled fowl, with oyfter fauce ; minced pies or tarts. In N 0 V E M B E R. Dinner. ■ - A roafted goofe, with gravy and apple fauce, and muftarJ* tod’s head, with oyfter fauce ; minced pies. Or, Roaft tongue and udder ; roaft fowls, and pigeon pie. Supper. Stewed carp ; «alf’s head hafhed ; minced pie. In DECEMBER. ^ Dinner. Ham and fowls roafted, with greens and gravy fauce, fravy foup ; frejh falmon, garnifhed with whiting or trout fried, and with anchovy fauce. Or, Old’s head, with fhrimp and oyfter fauce ; roaft beef, gar- liifhed with horfe-radifh ; and plumb pudding boiled. Or, Roaft be/f, with horfe-radifti, marrow pudding, and Scotch lollops. Supper. Brawn ; pullets boiled, and oyfter fauce ; minced pics. Or, Broiled chickens, with mufhrooms ; a hare or wild ducks, with rich gravy fauce; minced pies. TflE^7 lur/cft/ /hr litta/L tu?. ■+J IV/eajrfn/ ,*r Ih r/yu/of. llW’i/w/r c>r Stu/ie.I ' * ' ■( I } THE FRUGAL HOUSEWIFE.^ CHAP. I. Of GRAVIES and SAUCES. No. i. To draw Gravy. CU T a piece of beef into thin dices, and fry them brown in a ftew-pan, with two or three onions,' and two or three lean fhces of bacon ; then pour to it a ladle of ftrong broth, rubbing the brown from the pan very clean j add to it more ftrong broth, claret, white wine, anchovy, and a faggot of fweet herbs ; feafo'.i it, and flew it very well. Strain it oft, and keep it for ufe. No. 2. To make JVhite Gravy. Take part of a knuckle of veal, or the word: part of a neck of veal, boil about a pound of B thisI Of G R A V I E S. this in a quart of water, an onion, fome whole pepper, fix cloves, a little fait, a bunch of fweet herbs, and half a nutmeg lliced ; let them boil an hour, then flrain off the liquor, and keep it for ufe. x No. 3. A Gravy without Meat. Take a glafs of fmall beer, a glafs of water, an onion cut fmall, fome pepper and fait, and a little lemon peel grated, a clove or two, a fpoonful of mulhroom liquor,or pickled walnut liquor; put this into a bafon; then take a piece of butter, put it in a fauce-pan, and fet it on the fire, that it may melt; then drudge in fome flower, and flirit well till the froth finks, and it will be brown ; put in fome fliced onion, then put your mixture to the brown butter, and gi*ve it a boil up. No. 4. Gravy for a Turkey or fowl. Take a pound of lean beef, cut and hack it, then flour it well, put a piece of butter as big as a hen’s egg into a ftew-pan; when it is melted, put in your beef, fry it on all fides a little brown, then pour in three pints of boil- ing water, and a bundle of fweet herbs, two or three blades of mace, three or four cloves, twelve whole pepper-corns, a little bit of car- rot, a little cruft of bread toafted brown; cover it clofe, and let it boil till there is about a pint or lefs, then feafon it with fait, and ftrain it off.3 Of GRAVIES. No. 5. Gravy to make Mutton eat like V?nifon. , 1 Take a woodcock or fnipe, that is ftale, (the ftaler the better) pick it, cut it in two, and hack it with a knife; put it int-b a ftew-pan, with as much gravy as you fhallwant, and let it fimmer for half an hour ; then ft rain the gravy for ufe. This Vvill give the mutton fo true a flavour of game, that no one can tell it from venifon. No. 6. Gravy for a Fowl, when you have no Meat ready. Take the neck, liver, and gizzard, boil them in half a pint of water, with a little piece of bread toafted brown, a little pepper and fait, and a little bit of thyme. Let them boil till there is about a quarter of a pint ; then pour in half a glafs of red wine, boil it and ftrain it; then bruife the liver well in, and flra:n it again ; thicken it with a little piece of butter rolled in flour, and it will be very good. No. 7. Fo make a ftrong Fiji) Gravy. Take two or three eels, 6r any fi fir you have, fkin or fcale them, gut them and wafh them from grit, cut them into little pieces, put them into a fauce pan, cover them with water, a little cruft of bread toafted brown, a blade or two of mace, fome whole pepper, a few fweet herbs, and a little bit of lemon-peel. Let it boil till it is rich and good, then have ready a piece of butter, according to your gravy ; if a pint, as B 2 big4 ' Of S A U C E S. big as a walnut. Melt it in the fauce-pan, lhake in a little flour, and tofs it about till it is brown, and then (train in the gravy to it. Let it boil a few minutes, and it will be good. No. S. To make Effcnce of Ham. Take off the fat of a ham, and cut the lean in dices, beat them well, and lay them in the bottom of a fauce-pan, with dices of carrots, parfnips, and onions ; cover your pan and fet k over a gentle fire ; let them ltew till they be- gin to (tick, then fprinkle on a little flour, and turn them ; moiften them with broth and veal gravy. Seafon them with three or four mu(h- reoms, as many truffles, a whole leek, fome parilcy, and half a dozen clove>; or inftead of a leek, a clove of garlick Put in fome crumbs of bread, and let them fimmer over the fire for three quarters of an hour ; (train the liquor, and fet it alide for u.fe. Any pork or ham that is well cured will anfwer the purpofe. No. g. To make a f ending Sauce. TAKE a quart of claret or white wine, put it in a glazed jar, with the juice of two lemons, five large anchovies, fome Jamaica pepper whole, leme diced ginger, fome mace, a few cloves, a little lemon-peel, horfe-raddidi diced, fome fwcct herbs, fix fltallots, two fpoonfuls ®f capers, and their liquor, put all thefe in a Hnen bag, and put it into the wine, (top it ciofe,Of SAUCE S. 5 clofe, ind fet the vefTel in a kettle of hot water for an hour, and keep it in a warm place. A fpoonful or two of this liquor is good in any lauce. No. 10. To make Sauce for ronftcd Meat. Take an anchovy, walh it very clean, and put to it a glafs of red wine, a little ftfong broth or gravy, l'ome nutmeg, one lhallot Hired, and the juice of a Seville orange; flew thefe to- gether a little, and pour it to the gravy that runs from your meat. No. II. To make Sauce for Savoury Pics. Take fome gravy, fome anchovy, a bunch of fweet herbs, an onion, and a little mu Hr room liquor ; boil it a little, and thicken it with burnt butter; then add a little claret, open your pif, and put it in. This ferves for mutton, lamb, veal or beef pies. No. 12. To make Sauce for a fweet Pie. Take fome white wine, a little lemon j.uiae, or verjuice, and fome i'ugar; boil it, then beat two eggs, and mix them well together; then open your pie, and pour it in. 1 his may be ufed for veal or.lamb pies. No. J 3. To make Sauce for Fijb Pies. Take claret, white wine and vinegar, oyfter liquor, anchovies, and drawn butter ; wb$n the pies are baked, pour it in with a funnel. - * \r • B 3 No. 14.Of SAUCES. 6 No. 14. To melt Butter thick. Yourfaucepan mull be well tinned, and very clean. Juft moiften the bottom with as fmali a quantity of water as poflible, not aboveafpoon- ful to half a pound of butter. You may or may not dud the butter with dour: it is better not to flour it. Cut the butter in flices, and put it into the pan a little before the water becomes hot. As it melts, keep the pan fnaking one way frequently ; and when it is all melted let it boil up, and it will be fmooth, fine, and thick. No. 15. To burn Butter. Put two ounces of butter over a flow fire, in a Hew-pan or fauce-pan, without water. When the butter is melted, dud on a little flour, and beep it ftirring till it grows thick and brown. No. i 6. To make Mujhroom Sauce for White Fowls. Take a pint of mufhrooms, wafh and pick them very clean, and put them into a fauce- pan, with a little fait, {ome nutmeg, a blade of mace, a pint of cream, and a good piece of butter rolled in flour. Boil thefeall together, . and keep ftirring them ; then pour your fauce into the dilh, and garnifh with lemon. No. j 7. Mujhroom Saucefor White Fowls boiled. Take half a pint of cream, and a quarter of a pound of butter, ftir them together one way till it is thick ; then add a fpoonful of mufh- room pickle, pickled mufhrooms, or frefli if you have them. Garnifh only with lemon. No. 18.Of SAUCES. 7 No. 18. To make Celery Sauce, for ran fled dr boiled Fowls, Turkies, Partridges, or other Game. Take a large bunch of celery, wafhand pare it very clean, cut it into little thin bits, and boil it foftly in a little water till it is tender ; then add a little beaten mace, feme nutmeg, pepper, and fait, thickened with a good piece of butter rolled in floury then boil it up, and pour it in the dilh. No. 19. To make brown Celery Sauce. Stew the celery as above, then add mace, nutmeg, pepper, fait, a piece of butter rolled in flour, with a glafs of red wine, a fpoonful of catchup, and half a pint of good gravy; boil all thefe together, and pour into the dilh. Gar- nilh with lemon. No. 20. To make Egg Sauce for roa/lcd Chickens» Melt your butter thick and fine, chop two or three hard-boiled eggs fine, put them into a bafon, pour the butter over them, and have good gravy in the dilh. No. 21. Shallot Sauce for roa/led Foivls. Take five or fix fhallots peeled and cut final!, put them into a fauce-pan, with two fpoonfuls of white wine, two of water, and two of vi- negar; give them a boil up, and pour them into the difh, with a little pepper and fait. Fowls laid on water-crefles are very good with- out any other fauce. No. 2 2. Shallot Sauce for a Scrag of Mutionboiled. Take two fpoonfuls of the liquor the mutton is boiled in, two fpooofuls of vinegar, two or ^ 4 three8 Of S A U C £ S. three fhallots cut fine, with a little fait; put it into a fauce-pan, with a piece of butter as big as a walnut, rolled in a little flour; flirr it to- gether, and give it a boil. For thofe who love fhallots, it is the prettieft fauce that can be made to a ferag of mutton. No. 23. To make Lemon Seinecfor boiled Fowls. Take a lemon, pare off the rhind, then cut it into flices, cut it fmall, and take all the kernels out; bruiffi the liver with two or three fpoonfuls of good gravy, then melt fome butter, mix all together, gi.ve them a boil, and cut in a little lemon-peel very fmaii. * No. 24.. J pretty Venice for a boiled Fowl. Take the liver of the fowl, bruife it with a little of the liquor, cut a little lemon-peel fine, melt fome good butter, and mix the liver by degrees -} give it a boil, and pour it into the difh. No. 25. To make Onion Sauce. Boil fome large onions in a good deal of \ra- • ter, till they are very tender ; put them into a cullender, and when drained, pafs them through it w-ith a fpoon ; put them into a clean fauce- pan, with a good piece of butter, a little fait, and a gill of cream : Stir them over the fire till they are of a goed thicknefs. No. 26. To make Jlpplc Sauce. Take as many boiling apples as you chufe, peel them, and take out ail the cores ; put them in a fauce pan with a little water, a few cloves, and a blade of mace j ftmmer them till quite loft.Of SAUCES. 9 foft. Then ftrain off all the water, and beat them up with a little brown fugar and butter. No. 27. Bread, or Pap-fauce. Take a pint of water, put in a good piece of crumb of bread, a blade of mace, and a little whole pepper; boil it for eight or ten minutes, and then pour the water off; take out the fpice, and beat up the bread with a little butter. No. 28. Mint Sauce* Take young mint, pick and walh it clean j then fhred it fine, put it into a fmall balon, fprinkle it well with fugar, and pour in vinegar to your palate. / No. 29. Par fey Sauce. Tie parfley up in a bunch, and boil it tiU foft; fhred it fine, and mix it with melted butter* No. 30. To make Parfey Sauce in Winter, when there is no Parfey to be got, Take a little parfley-feed, tie it up in a clean rag, and boil it for ten minutes in a fauce-pan; then take out the feeds., and let the water cool a little. Take as much of the liquor as yon want, drudge in a little flour, and then put irv your butter and melt it. Shred a little boiled l’pinach, and put it in alfo; and pour it into a boat. No. 31. To make Lobfcr Sauce» Take a lobfter, bruife the body and fpawn,1 that is in the infide, very fine, with the back’ ' % 5 of10 Of S A U C E S. of a fpoon; mince the meat of the tail and claws very fmall, melt your butter of a good thicknefs, put in the bruifed part, and fhake it well together; then put in the minced meat, with a little nutmeg grated, and a fpoonful of white wine ; let it juft boil up, and pour it into boats, or over your fifh. No. 32. To make Shrimp Sauce. Put half a pint of (hrimps, clean picked, into a gill of good gravy ; let it boil up with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and a fpoonful of red wine. No. 33. To make Oyfer Sauce. Take a pint of oyfters that are tolerably large ; put them into a fauce-pan with their own liquor, a blade of mace, a little whole pepper, and a bit of lemon-peel; let them (lew over the Are till the oyfters are plump ; pour all into a clean pan, and wa(h them carefully one by one* out of the liquor; drain about a gill of tire li- quor through a fine lieve, add the fame quanti- ty of good gravy, cut half a jround of frefh butter in pieces, roll up fome in flour, and then put in all to your oyflers ; fet it over the fire, lhake it round often till it boils, and add a fpoonful of white wine; let it juft boil, and pour it into your bafon or boat.—Many people add an anchovy, which greatly enriches the iauce. No. 34. To ?nake Tnchovy Sauce. Strip an anchovy, brnife it very fine, put it into half a pint of gravy, a quarter of a pound ©f butter rolled in flour, a fpoonful of red wine, andOf ROASTING. II and a tea fpoonful of catchup ; boil all together till it is properly thick, and ferve it up.—-Add a little lemon juice, if you pleafe. No. 35. To make a good Fijh Sauce. Take half a pint of water, two anchovies fplit, a clove, a bit of mace, a little lemon- peel, a few pepper corns, and a large fpoonful of red wine ; boil all together, till your anchovy i-s diffolved; then drain it off, and thicken it with butter rolled in flour. This is the belt fauce for Ikate, maids, or thornback. N. B. For other particular Sauces, fee the Re- ceipts for different Dijh.es. CHAP. IL Of ROASTING. General Rules to he obferved in Rcafting. YOUR fire mud be made in. proportion to the piece you are to drefs ; that is, if it be a little or thin piece, make a.fmall brilk fire, that it may be done quick and nice; but if a large joint, obferve to lay a good fire to cake, and let it be always clear at the bottom. Al- lowing a quarter of an hour for every pound of meat at a fteady fire, your expectations wilt hardly ever fail, from a firloin. of beef to a final! joint: Neverthelefs, I fhall mentiondome few obfervations as to Beef, Mutton* Lamb,, Veal* Pork, idc. > P 6 Bittckeecs.12 Of ROASTING. To * Butchers Meat. To roof Beef. 1/ it be a flrloin or chump, butter a piece of ■writing-paper, and fatten it on to the back of your meat with lmall fkewers, and Jay it down to a foakjng fire, at a proper diftance. As foon rs your meat is warm, duft on fome flour, and bafle it with butter; then fprinkle fome fait, and, at times, batte with what comes from it. About a quarter of an hour before you take it up, remove the paper, duft on a little flour, and batte it with a piece of butter, that it may go to table with a good froth. Garnifh your difh with fcraped horfe-raddifh ; and ferve it up with potatoes, brocoli, French beans, cauliflower, or celery. To ronjl Mutton. If a chine, or faddle of mutton, let the fkin be railed, and then fkewered on again ; this will prevent it from fcorching, and make it eat mellow : a quarter of an hour before you take it up, take off the fkin, duft on fome flour, bafle it with butter, and fprinkle on a little fait. As the chine, faddle, and leg, are the largeftjoints, they require a ftronger fire. than the fhoulder, neck,- or loin. Garnifh with fcraped horfe- raddifh ; and ferve.it up with potatoes, brocoli, French beans, cauliflower, water creffes, horfe- raddifh, pickled cabbage, and other pickles. Serve up a fhoulder of mutton, with onion fstice. — $ee the Sauce Articles, .No. 25.Of ROASTING. 13 To To road Mutton, Venifon Fajhton. Take a hind quarter of fat mutton, and cut the leg like a haunch; lay it in a pan with the back fide of it down ; pour a bottle of red wine over it* and let it lie twenty-four hours ; then fpit it, and bafte it with the fame liquor and butterallthe time it is roafting, at a good quick fire, and two hours and a half will do it. Nave a little good gravy in a boat, and currant jelly: in another.—See No. i, or No. 5,—A good fat neck of mutton eats finely done thus. A Shoulder or Leg of Mutton fuffed. Stuff a leg of mutton with mutton-fuet, fait, pepper, nutmeg, grated bread, and yolks of eggs; then ftick it all over with cloves, and roaft it j. when it is about half done, cut off fome of the yuder-fide of the flefhy end in little bits - put thofe into a pipkin with a pint of oyfiers, liquor and all, a little fait and mace, and half a pint of hot water ; ftew them till half the liquor is waft- ed, then put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, fhake all together, and when the mutton is enough, take it up; pour the fauce over i.t, and* fend it to table. To roaft a Breaf of Mutton with Fore d-meat. A breaft of mutton drefled thus is very good ;• the forc’d-meat mult be put under the fkin at the end, and then the ikin pinned down with thorns ; before you drudge it, wafh it over with a bunch of feathers dipt in eggs. Garnilh with' lemon, and put good gravy in the d-ifh. — The force-meat may be the fame as in the laft receipt.*4 Of ROASTING. To roaft a Tongue, or Udder. Parboil it firft, then roaft it : flick eight or ten cloves about it ; bafte it with butter, and fend it up with gravy and fweet fauce. An udder eats very well done the fame way. To Roaft Lamb. Lay it down to a clear good fire, that will want little ftirring ; then bafte it with butter, and duft on a little flour; bafte it with what falls from it: and a little before you take it up, bafte it again with butter, and fprinkle on a little fait and parfley fhred fine. Send it up to table with a nice fallad, mint fauce, green peas, French beans, or cauliflower. See Sauce,, No. 28. To roa1 Veal. When you roaft the loin or fillet, paper the udder of the fillet, to preferve the fat, and the. back of the loin to prevent it from fcorching ; lay the meat at firft fome diftance from the fire, that it may foak ; bafte it well with butter, then duft on a little flour. When it has foaked fome time, draw it nearer the fire : And a little be- fore you take it up, bafte it again. Moft peo- ple chufe to fluff a fillet. The breaft you muft roaft with the caul on, and the fweet-bread fkewered on the back-fide. When it is- near enough, take off the caul, and bafte it with butter. It is proper to have a toaft nicely bak- ed, and laid in the difh with a loin of veal. Garnilh with lemon and barberries. The0/ ROASTING.. j$ and The fluffing for a fillet of veal is made in the following manner : take about a pound of grated bread, half a pound of fuet, fome parfley ffired fine, thyme, marjoram, orfavory, which you like belt, a little grated nutmeg, lemon- peel, pepper and fait, and mix thefe well toge- ther with whites and yolks of eggs. To roaft Pork. Pork requires more doing than any other meat; and it is beft to fprinkle it with a little fait the night before you ufe it, (except on the rind, which muft never be falted) and hang it up ; by that means it will take off the faint, fickly taffe. When you roaft a chine of Pork, lay it down to a good fire, and at a proper diftance, that it may be well foaked. ^ A fpare-rib is to be roafted with a fire that is not too ftrong, but clear ; when you lay it down, duft on fome flour, and bafte it with butter : A quarter of an hour before you take it up, flared fome fage fmall ; bafte your pork, ftrew on the fage, duft on a little flour, and fprinkle a little fait before you take it up. A loin muft be cut on the fkm in fmall ftreaks, and then bailed, but put no flour on, which would make the fkin blifter : Be careful that it is jo:nted before you lay it down to the fire. A leg of pork is often roafted with fage and onion fhred fine, with a little pepper and fait, and fluffed at the knuckle ; with gravy in the dilh ; But a better way is this; parboil it firft,i6 Of R O A S T I N G. and take off the fkin ; lay it down to a good clear fire, bafte it with butter, then Aired fome fage fine, and mix it with pepjvr, fair, nutmeg, and bread crumbs ; ftrew this over it whilft it is loading: Bade it again with butter juft before you. take it up, that it may be of a fine brown, and have a nice froth : fend up fome good gra- vy in the dilh, and ferve it up with apple fauce and potatoes.—See Saucet No. 26. To Stuff a Chine of Pork. Make a fluffing of the fat leaf of pork, par- ley thyme, fage, eggs, and crumbs of bread.; feafon it with pepper, fait, fhallots, and nut- meg, and fluff it thick ; then reaft it gently, and when it is about a quarter roafted, cut the ikin in flips. Serve it up with apple lauce as in the foregoing receipt. To roajl Pig. Spit your pig, and lay it down to a clear fire, kept good at both ends : Put into the belly a few fage leaves, a 1.tile pepper and fait, a final! crufi of bread, and a bit of butter ; then few up the belly : flour it all over very well, and do fo till the eyes begin to ftart. When you find the fkin is tight and crifp, and the eyes are dropped, put two plates into the dripping pan, to lave what gravy comes from it: Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a clean coarfe cloth, and rub all over it, till the flour is quite taken off; then take it up into your difh, take the fage, hpllvOf ROASTING. 17 the head, open it, and take out the brains, which chop, and put the (age and brains into half a pint of good gravy, with a piece of butter rolled in flour: then cut your pig down the back, and lay it flat in the cl 1 fh : Cut ofF the two ears, and lay one upon each (boulder; take off the under jaw, cut it in two, and lay one upon each fide: put the head between tjie (boul- ders ; pour the gravy out ot the plates into your fauce, and their into the dilb : fend it to table garhi(hed with lemon, and if you pleafe, pap lauce in a bafon. See Sauce,- Nc. 27. Game and Poultry. To roc ft Vcnifn. After the haunch of venifon is fpitted, take a piece of butter, and rub all over the fat, dub on a little flour, and 1'prin^.le a little l'alt: then take a fheet of writing-paper, butter it well, and lay over the fat part; -put two (heets over that, and tie the paper on with linall twine : Keep it well bafted, and let there be a good foaking fire. If a large haunch, it will take near three hours to do it. Five minutes be- fore you fend it to table, take off the paper, dufi it over wiih a little flour,, and babe it with butter; let it go up with a good froth ; put no gravy in the difh, but fend it in one boat, and currant jelly melted, in another. To roaft a Hare. Cafe and trufs your hare, and then make a pudding thus : A quarter of a pound of beef . fuet ■*18 Of R O A S T J N G. To fuet minced fine; as much bread crumbs; the liver chopped fine ; parfley and lemon-peeF Hired fine, feafoned with pepper, fait, and nut- meg. Moiflen it with an egg, and put it into- the hare ; few up the belly, and lay it down to a good fire : Let your dripping pan be very clean, put into it a quart of milk, and fix ounces of butter, and bafte it with this till the whole is ufed : About five minutes before you take it up, dull on a little flour, and bafte with frdh butter, that it may go to table with a good froth. Put a little gravy in the difh, and the icfi in a boat: Garni/h your dilh with lemon. • —~ee Gravy, No. J, or No. 4. To roaft Rabbits. Bafte them with good butter, and drudge them with a little flour. Half an hour will do them, at a very quick clear Are ; and, if they are very fmall, twenty minutes will do them. Take the livers, with a little bunch of parfley, and boil them, and then chop them very fine together. Melt fome good butter, and put half the liver and parfley into the butter; pour it into the dilh, and garnilh the difh with the other half. Let the rabbits be done of a fine light brown. To roaft a Rabbit Hare fajhion. Lard a rabbit with bacon; put a pudding in its belly, and roaft it as you do a hare, and it eats very well. Send it up with gravy fauce. nm.n.-See Gravy, No. i, or No. 4.Of ROASTING. To roaft a Turkey, Goofe, Ducky Fowl, &c. When you roaft a Turkey, goofe, fowl, or chicken. Jay them down to a good fire. Singe them clean with white paper, bafte them with butter, and duft on fome Hour. As to time, a large Tu key will take an Hour and twenty minutes; a middling one a full hour; a full grown goofe, if young, an hour ; a large fowl three quarters of an hour ; a midhng one half an hour, and a fmall chicken twenty minutes ; but this depends entirely on the goodnels of your fire. When your fowls are thoroughly plump, and the fmoke draws from the breaft to the fire, you may be fure that they are very near done. Then bafte them with butter; duft on a very little flour, and as foon as they have a good froth, ferve them up. Geefeand ducks are commonly feafoned with onions, fage, and a little pepper and fait. A tuikev, when roafted, is generally fluffed in the craw with forc’d-meat, or the following fluffing : Take a pound of veal, as much grat- ed bread, half a pound of fuet cut and beat very fine, a little parfley, with a fmall matter of thyme, or favory, two cloves, half a nutmeg grated, a tea-fpoonful of fined lemon-peel, a little pepper and fait, and the yolks of two eggs. Sauce for a Turkey. Good gravy in a boat; and either bread, onion, or oyfter-fauce in a bafon.—See Gravy, No. I, and No. 4.—Sauce No. 25, No. 27, and No. 33. Sauceao Of. ROASTIN G. Sauce for a Goofe. A little good gravy in a . beat, apple .fauce in a bafon, and muftard. See Sauce, No. 26. For a Duck. A little gravy in the difh, and onions in a tea-cup.- See Gravy, No. i, or No- 4. Sauce for Fowls. Parfley and butter; or gravy in the difh, and either bread fauce, oyflcr bn ce, or egg faucs in a bafon.—See a variety of <ti>er 'auces for Poultry, among the Sauce Arti- cles, Chap. I. A Fowl, or Turkey roofed with Chefnuts. Roaft a quarter of a hundred of chefnuts, and peel them ; fave out eight or ten, the reft bruife in a mortar, with the-liver of a fowl, a quarter of a pound of ham well pounded, and fweet heibs and parfley chopped fine : Seafon it with pace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait: mix all thefe together, and put them iqtp the belly of your fowl: Spit it, and tie the neck and vent clofe. For fauce, take the reft of the cheftnuts, cut them in pieces, and put them into a llrong gravy, with a glafs cf white wine : Thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour. Pour the fauce in the difh, and garnilh with orange and water-crefles. To roaft a green Goofe with green Sauce. Roaft your goofe nicely ; in the mean time, make your fauce thus : take half a pint of the juice of forrel, a fpoonful of white wine, a little grated nutmeg,, and fome grated bread ; boil this over a gentle fire, and lw'eeten it with pounded fugar to your tafte ; let your goofe have ■Of ROASTING. 'll To have a good froth on it before you take it up ; put fome good ftrong gravy in the difh, and the fame in a boat. Garnifh with lemon. The German Way of dr effing Fowls. Take a turkey or fowl, fluff the bread: with what force-meat you like, nil the body with roafted ch'efnuts peeled, and lay it down to roaft : take half a pint of good gnavy, with a little piece of butter rolled in four ; boil thefe together, with fome fmall turnips and faufages cut in flices, and fried or boiled. Garnifh with chefnuts. Note, You may drefs ducks the fame way. To roafl Pigeons. Take a little pepper and fait, a fmall piece of butter, and fome parfley cut fmall ; mix thefe together, put them into the bellies of your pi- geon:;, tying the neck ends tight; take another firing, fallen one end of it to their legs and -rumps, and the other to the mantle-piece. Keep them condantly turning rohnd, and bade them with butter. When they are done, take them up, lay them in a dint, and they will fwim with gravy. Wild Ducks, Wlgeons, or Teal. Wild fowl are in general liked rather under done; and if your fire is very good and brifk, a duck or wigeon will be done in a quarter of an hour ; for as foon as they arc well hot through, they begin to lofe their gravy, and if not drawn off, will eat hard. A teal is done in little more than ten minutes.22 Of ROASTING. To To roaft Woodcocks or Snipes. Spit them on a fmall bird fpit; flour them, and bafle them with butter: have ready a flics of bread toafted brown, which iay in a difh, and fet it under your birds, for the trail to drop on. When they are enough, take them up, and lay them on the toaft ; put fbme good gravy in the difh, and fome melted butter in a cup. Garnifh with orange or lemon. To roaft Quails. Trufs them, and fluff their bellies with beef fuet and fweet herbs Hired very fine, and fea- foned with a little fpice : When they grow warm, bafle them with fait and water, then drudge them, and bafle them with butter. For fauce, diffolve an anchovy in good gravy, with two or three fliallots fhred very fine, and the juice of a Seville orange; difh them up in this lauce, and garnilh your difh with fried bread crumbs, and lemon ; fend them to table as hot as poffible. To roaft Pheafants. Take a brace of pheafants, lard them with fmall lards of bacon ; butter a piece of white paper, and put over the breafts, and about ten minutes before they are done, take off the pa- per ; flour and bafle them with nice butter, that they may go to table with a fine froth: Put good gravy in the difh, and bread fauce, as for partridges, in a boat; garnifh your difh with lemon. See Saucc3 No. 27.Of R O A S T I N G. 23 of To roaft Partridges. When they are a little under-roafted, drudge them with flour, and bafte them with frelh butter: Let them go to table with a fine froth, putting gravy fauce in the difh, and bread fauce in a bafon. See Sauce, No. 27. To roajl Plovers. Green plovers are roafted as you do wood- cocks : Lay them upon a toaft, and put good gravy fauce in the difh. Grey plovers are roaft- ed, or ftewed, thus: Make a force-meat of artichoke bottoms cutfmall, feafoned with pep- per, fait, and nutmeg: Stuff the bellies, and put the birds into a fauce-pan, with a good gravy juft to cover them, a glafsof white wine, and a blade of mace ; cover them clofe, and flew them foftly till they are tender ; then take up your plovers into the difh; put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, to thicken your fauce; let it boil till fmooth ; fqueeze in a litt.e le- mon; fcum it clean, and pour it over the birds, Garnifh with orange. To roaft Larks. Trufs your larks with the legs acrofs, and put a fage leaf over the breaft; put them upon a long fine lkewer, and between every lark a little piece of thin bacon ; then tie the lkewer to a fpit, and roaft them at a quick, clear lire; bafte them with butter, and ftrew over them fome crumbs of bread mixed with flour ; fry foine bread crumbs of a nice brown, in a bit■2* Of R O A S T I N G. of butter; lay your larks round in your difh, the bread crumbs in the middle, with fliced orange for garnifh. Send good gravy in a boat. To roaft Ortolans. You may lard them with bacon, or roaft them without, putting a vine-leaf between each; fpit the fideways, bade them with butter, and ftrew bread crumbs on them while roafting : Send them to table with fried bread cruulbs around them, garnifhed with lemon, and a good gravy fauce in a botit. To drefs Ruffs and Riefs. Draw them, and trufs them crofs-legged, as you do fnipes, and fpit them the fame way ; 1 i'y them upon a buttered toaft, pour good gravy into-the difh., and ferve them up quick. Of Fish, To roaft a Cod's Head. Wafh and fcour the head very clean, fcotch it with a knife, ftrew-a little fait on it, and lay it before the fire ; throw away the water that runs from it the firft half hour, then ftrew on it fome nutmeg, cloves, mace, and fait, and baftc it often with butter. Take all the gravy of the fifh, white wine, and meat gravy, fome horfe- raddifh, ftvallots, whole pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg, and a bay-leaf or two; boil this liquor up with butter, and the liver ot the fifh boiled, broke, and ftrained into it, with the yolks of two or three eggs, oyfters, fhrimps, and balls made of fiftl; put fried fifh round it. GarnilhOf R O A S T I N G. 25 Garnifh with lemon and hode-radifh.—Or you may ufe the Sauce, No. 31, or either of the four following Numbers, which ever is moll agreeable. To roafl a Pike. Take a large pike, gut it, clean it, and lard it with eel and bacon, as you lard a fowl; then take thyme, favory, fait, mace, nutmeg, fome crumbs of bread, beef fuet, and parfley, all fhred very fine, and mix it up with raw eggs; make it into a long pudding, and put it in the belly of your pike ; few up the belly, and dif- folve three anchovies in butter, tobafte it with; put two laths on each fide the pike, and tie it to the fpit: Melt butter thick for the fauce, (or if you pleafe, oyfter fauce) and bruife the pud- ding into it. Garnifh with lemon.—-See Sauce> No. 33. To roaft an Eel. Scour the eel well with fait; Ikin him alrnoft to the tail; then gut, wafh, and dry him: Take a quarter of a pound of fuet Hired as fine as poffible,,' fweet herbs, and a fhallot, and mix them together with fait, pepper, and nut- meg; fcotch your eel on both fidcs, Wafh it with yolks ot eggs, lay fome feafoning over it, fluff the belly with it, then draw the ikin over it, and tie it to the fpit; bade it with butter, and make the fauce of anchovies and butter melted. — !>cc Sauce, No. 34, or 35. Any other river or fea fiffi, that are large enough, may be dtcfled in the fame manner. G C H A P.CHAP. nr. 0/ BOILING. General Rules to be obferved in Boiling. BE very careful that ycur pots and covers are well tinned, very clean, and free from fand. Mind that your pot really boils all the while; otherwife you will be difappointed in drefling any joint, though it has been a proper time over the fire. Frefti meat fhould be put in when the water boils, and fait meat whim it is cold. Take care likewife to have fufficient room and water in the pot, and allow a quar- ter of an hour to every pound of meat, let it weigh more or lefs. • Butchers Meat. To boil Beef or Mutton. When your meat is put in, and the pot boils, take care to fcum it very clean, otherwife the fcum will boil down, flick to your meat, and j make it look black. Send up your difh with,I turnips, gieens, potatoes, or carrots. If it is a j leg or loin of mutton, you may alfo put melted j! butter and capers in a boat. To boil a Leg of Pork. A leg of pork mu ft lie in fait fix or feven ! 1 ays ; after which put it into the pot to be. j boiled, without ufing any means to frelhen it. ItOf B O I L I N G. 27 It requires much water to fwim in over the fire, and alfo to be fully boiled ; fo that care fhould be taken, that the fire does notflacken, while it is drefling. Serve it up with a peafe-pudding, melted butter, muftard, buttered turnips, car- rots, x>r greens. N. B. The other joints of the fwine are moft commonly roailed. To boil Pickled Pork. Wafil the pork, and fcrape it clean. Put it in when the water is cold, and boil it till the rind be tender. It is to be ferved up always with boiled greens, and is commonly a fauce of itfelf to roafled fowls or veal. To boil Veal. Let the pot boil, and have a good fire when you put in the meat; be fure to feum it very clean. A knuckle of veal will take more boil- ing in proportion to its weight, than any other joint, becaufe the beauty is to have all the griftles foft and tender. You may either fend up boiled veal with parfley and butter ; or with bacon and greens. •—See Sauce, No. 29. To boil a Calf s Head- The head muft be picked very clean, and foaked in a large pan of water, a eonfiderable time before it be put into the pot. Tie the brains up in a rag, and put them into the pot at the fame time with the head ; fkiin the pot well; then put in a piece of baron, in propor- tion to the number of people to eat thereof. C 2 You28 Of B O I L I N G. You will find it to he enough by the tender- nefi. of 'the flefii about that part that joined to the neck When enough, you may grill it before the file, o ferve it up with melted but- ter, bacon, and greens; and with the brains mafhed and beat up with a little butter, fait, pepper, vinegar, or lemon, fage, and parfiey, in a feparate plate, and the tongue flit and laid in the fame plate, or ferve the brains whole, and the tongue Hit down the middle. To boil Lamb. A leg of lamb of five pounds will not be boiled in lefs than an hour and a quarter; and if, as it ought to be, it is boiled in a good deal of water, and your pot be kept clean feum’d, ■you may dilh it up as white as a curd. Send ft to table with ftewed fpinach; and melted butter in a boat. To boil a Neat's Tongue. A dried tongue fhould be foaked over night; when you drels it, put it into cold water, and let it have room ; it will take at leaf; four hours. A green tongue out of the pickle need not be foaked, but it will require near the fame time. An hour before you difh it up, take it out and blanch it, then put it into the pot again till you want it; this will make it eat the tenderer. To boil a Ham. A ham requires a great deal of water, there- fore put it into the copper cold, and let it only dimmer for two hours, and allow a full quartei ofOf BOILING. 29 of an hour to ever / pound of ham ; by this means your ham will eat tender and well. A dry ham Ihould be foaked ;r. . :er over- J night; a green one does n~t require foakmg. Take care they are well ci med before you drels them. Before you fend a ham to table take off the rind, and fprii . e it over with bread crumbs, and put it in an oven for a quarter of an hour: or you may crilp it with a hot falamandcr. To boil a Haunch of Venifon. Salt the haunch well, and let it lay a week ; then boil it with a cauliflower, fome turnips, young cabbages, and beet-roots; lay your ve- nifon in the difh, difpofe the garden things round it in feparate plates, and fend it to table. Game and Poultry, To boil a Turkey, Fowl, Goof, Duck, &c. Poultry are bed boiled by themfelves, and in a good deal of water; feum the pot clean, and ypu need not be afraid of their going to table of a bad colour. A large Turkey, with a force-meat in his craw, will take two'hours ; one without, an hour and a half; a hen tur- key, three quarters of an hour ; a la ge fowl, forty minutes ; a fmall one, half an hour; a large chicken, twenty minutes ; and a fmall one a quarter of an hour. A full grown goofe falted, an hour and a half; a large duck, near an hour.» 30 Of BOILING. * t Sauce for a boiled Turkey. Take a little wa- ter, a bit of thyme, an onion, a blade of mace, a little lemon peel, and an anchovy; boil tlufte together, and ft rain them through a fieve, add- ing a little melted butter. Fry a few faufages to lay round the di/h, and garnifh with lemon. Or you may ufe the Gravy., Nc. 4, or the Oyfter Sauce, No. 33, made with white gravy. Sauce for a Fowl. Parfley and butter j or white oyfter fauce. See Sauce, No. 33, or No 17. Sauce for a Goore. Onion', or cabbage, firft boded, and then ftewed in butter for a few minutes —See Sauce, No. 26. Sauce for a Duck. They fhould be fmother- ed in onions.—See Sauce, No. 25 For Poultry there is alfo a variety of other Sauces, among the Sauce Articles. Chickens boiled, with Celery Sauce. Put two fine chickens into a fauce-pan to boil, and in the mean time prepare the fauce ; take the white part of two bunches of celery cut about an inch and an half Jong, and boil it till tender j ftrain off the water, and put the celery into a ftew-pan, with half a pint of cream, and a piece of butter rolled in flour ; feafou with pepper and fait; let it over a clear fire, and keep it lfirring till it is fmooth, and of a good thicknefs. Have ready half a dozen rafh- ers of bacon ; take up your chickens, pour your fauce into the difli, and put the rafhers of 1 aeon and fliced lemon round. To3* Of BOILING. To boil Pigeons. Let the pigeons be boiled by themfelves for about a quarter of an hour ; then boil a proper quantity of baron, cut fquare, and lay it in the middle of the di(h. Stew fome fpinach to put round, and lay the pigeons on the fpinach. Garnilh with parlley dried crilp before the fire. To boil Rabbits. Trufs your rabbits dole, and boil them off white. For fauce, take the livers, which, when boiled, bruife with a fpoon very fine, and take out all the firings ; put to this iome good veaf broth, a little parlley fhred fine, and l'ome barberries clean picked from the ftalks ; feafon it with mace and nutmeg; thicken it with a piece o. butter rolled in flour, and a little white wine : Let your fauce be of a- good thicknefs, and pour it over your rabbits. Garnifh with lemons and barberries. To boil Rabbits with Onions. Trufs your rabbits fhort, with the heads turned over their fhoulders : Let them be boil- ed off very white. Serve them up with the Onion Sauce, No. 25 ; and garnifh with lemon and raw parlley. To boil Woodcocks or Snipes. Boil them either in beef gravy, or good ffrong broth made in the bell manner; put ,your gravy, when made to your mind, into a fauce-pan, and feafon it with fait; take the ^ 4- guts32 Of BOILING. guts of your fnipes out clean, and put them into your gravy, and let them boil; let them be covered dole, and kept boiling, and then ten minutes will be fufficient. In the mean time, cut the guts and liver fmall. Take a fmal] quantity of the liquor your fnipes are boiled in, and Hew the guts with a blade of mace. Take fome crumbs of bread, (about the quantity of the in fide of a dale roll) and have them ready fried crifp in a little frelh butter; when they are done, let them (land ready in a plate before the fire. When your l'nipes or woodcocks are ready, take about half a pint cf the liquor they are boiled in, and put two fpoonfuls of red wine to the guts, and a lump of butter rolled in flour, about as big as a walnut; fet them on the fire in a fauce-pan. Never fiir it with a lpoon, but fitake it well till the butter is melted ; then put in your crumbs ; fhakc your fauce-pan well; take yom birds up, and pour your vuce over them. To toil Pbeafants. Let them be drefled in a good deal of water ; if large three quarters of an hour will do them ; if fmall, half an hour. For faucc, uie Hewed celery, thickened with cream, and a piece of butter rolled in flour,, a little fait, grated nut- meg, and a fpoonful of white wine ; pour tire fame over them; and garnilh with orange cut in quarters. To boil Partridges. Boil them quick, and in a good deal ofhva- ter ; a quarter of an hour will do them.Cy.BOILING. 33 For Sauce. Parboil the livers, and fcald fome parlley : Chop thefe fine, a-nd put them into fome melted butter; fqueeze in a little lemon, give it a boil up, and pour it over the birds. Garnilh with lemon Biit this is a more elegant Sauce: Take a few mufhrooms, frefh peeled, and walh them clean, put them in a fauce pan with a little fait, let them over a quick fire, let them boil up, and put in a quarter of a pint of cream, and a little nutmeg; lhake them together with a very little piece of butter rolled in flour, give it two or three fhakesover the fire, (three or four minutes will do) then pour it over the birds. Of F i s h. To boil a Turbot. A turbot ought to be put into pump water, with fait and vinegar, for two hours before- it is dreffed. In the mean time, put a fufficiency of water into a fifh kettle, with a ftick of horfe- radilh diced, a handful of fait, and a faggot of fweet herbs. When the water talks of the fea- foning, take it off the fire, and let it cool a lit- tle, to prevent the fiih from breaking. Put a handful of fait into the mouth and belly of the turbot, put it into the kettle, and bod’it gent- ly. A middling turbot will take about twenty- minutes. When it is enough, drain it a little; lay it upon a dilh fufficiently large, and garnilh with fried lmelts, fliccd lemon, icraped horfc-radifh, and barberries, C 5 Sauce*Of BOILING: 34 Sauce. Lobfter fauce, anchovy fauce, and plain butter, in feparate bafons.-— See Sauer, No. 31, and No. 34, 35. To boil a Cod. Gut and wafh the fifh very clean infide and our, and rub the back bone with a handful of fait; put it upon a fifh plate, and boil it gently till it is enough ; and remember always to boil the liver along with it. Gamifh with feraped horfe-radifh, ffnall fried fifh, and lliced lemon. Sauce. Oyfter fauce, fhrimp fauce, or lob- fter fauce, with plain melted butter, in diffe- rent boats, and milliard in a tea-cup.— See Sauce, No. 31, and No. 34, 35. To boll a Cod’s Head. After tying your cod’s head round with pack- thread, to keep it from flying, put a fifh-kettle on the fire, large enough to cover it with wa- ter'; put in fome fait, a little vinegar, and fome hoi fe-radilh lliced ; whenyout water boils, lay your fifh upon a drainer, and put it into the kettle ; let it boil gently till it riles to the fur- face of the water, which it will do, if your kettle is large enough ; then take it out, and fet it to drain ; Hide it carefully off your drainer into your fifh plate. (farnifh with lemon, and horfe-radilh feraped. Have oyfter fauce in one bafon, ar.d fhrimp- fauce in another.—See Sauce, No. 3c, or 33. To boil Crimp Cod. Cut a Cod into flices, and throw it into pump-water and fait 3 fet over ycur ftove a largeOf BOILIN G. 3S large fifh kettle, or turbot pan, almofl: full of fpring-water, and fait lufficient to make it brack- ilh ; let it boil quick., then put in your flices of cod, and keep it boiling and clean fcumm’d ; in about eight minutes the filh will be enough ; then take the flices carefully up, and lay them on a lilh-plate. Garnifh your difh with horfe radifh, lemon, and green parfley. Send fhrimp fauce in one boat, and oyfter fauce in another.—‘See aucey No. 32,. or 33. You may, if you pleafe, take lome of the largcft flices, flour them, and broil them to a fine brown, and fend them in a difh for the lower end of the table, “To boil Skate. Great care muft be taken in cleaning this fifh ; and as it is commonly too large to be boiled in a pan at once, the befl way is to cut it in long flips, crofs-ways, about an inch broad, and throw it into fait and water ; and if the water boils quick it will be enough in three minutes. Drain it well, and ferve it up with butter and muftard in one baton, and an- chovy or f'oy fauce in another.- See Squcc, No. 34, or No. 35. You may, if you pleafe, place fpitchcccka eels round about the ikate. To boil Souls. Clean the foals well, and having laid them two hours in vinegar, fait, and'water, dry them in a cloth, and then put them into a filh-pan with an onion, fome whole pepper.36 Of BOILING. and a little fait. Cover the pan, and let them boil till enough. Serve them up with anchovy fauce, and butter melted plain; or with fhrimp, foy, or mufcle fauce—See Sauce, No. 31, 32, or 34j 35* To boil Plaice and Flounders. Let the pan boil; throw- fomc fait into the water ; then put in the fifh ; and (being boiled enough) take it out with a fiice, and drain it ' '*-‘11. Serve it up with horfe-radifh and boiled parfiey, to garnifh the edges of the difh; and with a bafon of butter melted plain, and an- chovy fauce ; or butter melted with a little catchup or foy.—See Sauce, No. 34, or 35. To boil Sturgeon. Having cleaned the {burgeon well, boil it in as much liquor as will juft cover it, adding two or three bits of lemon-peel, fome whole pep- per, a ftick of horfe-radifh, and a pint of vi- negar to every two quarts of water. When it is enough, garni Hi the difh with fried oyfters, fticed lemon, and fciaped horfe-radifh ; ferve it up with a fufficient quantity of melted frefh butter, with cavear diffolved in it; or (where that is not to be had) with anchovy fauce, and the body of a crab bruifed in the butter, and a little lemon juice, ferved up in bafons. To boil Salmon. Let it be well feraped and clcanfed from feales and blood: and after it has lain about an hour in frit and fpring-.water, put it into a ' fifh-0/ BOILING. 37 fiftv kettle, with a proportionate quantity of fait and horfe-radhh, and a bunch of fweet herbs. Put it in while the water is lukewarm, and boil it gently till enough, or about half an hour, if it be thick; or twenty minutes, if it be a fmali piece. Pour off the water, dry it well, and dilh it neatly upon a ftfh-plate, in the center, and garnifh the dilh with horfe-radiftl fcraped, (as done for roaft beef,) or with fried fmelts or gudgeons, and with dices of lemon round the rim, The Sauce to be melted butter, with and without anchovy ; or Ihrimp or lobfter fauce ia different bafons.---^’ Sauce, No. 31, or 3Z. To boil Carp. . Take a brace of large carp, fcale them, and ulit the tails, let them bleed into about half a pint of red wine, with half a nutmeg grated ; (keep it ftirring, or the blood will congeal) then gut and wafh them very clean; boil the roes firft, and then the carp, as you would do any other filh, then fry them ; fry fome fippets cut corner-ways ; and laftly, dip fome large oyfters in batter, and fry them alfo, of a line brown. For the Sauce, take two anchovies, a piece of lemon-peel, a little horfe-radifh, and a bit of onion ; boil thefe in water till the anchovies are walled ; ftrain the liquor'into a clean fauce- pan, and, as you like it, add oyfters Hewed, a lobfter cut fmali, (without the fpawn,) craw- lilh, or fhrimps ; fet it over the fire, and let it boil; then take near a pound of butter, roll3» 0/ BOILING. roll a good piece in flour, put it into your fauce- pan with the liquor, with what other ingredi- ents you intend, and boil all together, till it is of a good thicknefs ; then pour in the wine and blood, and fhake it about, letting it only fim- mer. Take up the fifh, put them into a difh, and pour the fauce over them. Garnifh your difh with fried oyfters, horfe- radifh, fried parfley, and lemon ; flick the fip- pets about the difh, and lay the roe, fome on I the fllh, and the reft on the difh; fend it to ta- ble as hot as you can. As this is an expenflve method, you may if you pleafe, drefs carp according to the follow- ing receipt of drefflng tench. To boil Tench. Clean your tench very well, then put them | into a flew pan, with as much water as will co- ver them ; put in fome fait, whole pepper, le- mon-peel, horfe-radifh, and a bundle of fweet i herbs, and boil them till they are enough. For Sauce,—Take fome of the liquor, a glafs of white wine, a pint of fhrimps, and an an- chovy bruifed ; boil altogether in a fauce-pan, and roll a good piece of butter in flour, and break ir into the fauce j when of a proper thick- nefs, pour it over the fifh Garnifh with le- mon and feraped horfe-radifh. To boil Mackerel. Having cleaned the mackrel very well, and foaked them for fome time in fpring water, put them and the roe? into a flew'-pan, with r as sOf B O I L I N G. 30 as much water as will cover them, and a little fait. Boil a fmall bunch of fennel along with them, and when you fend them up, garnifh with the roes, and the fennel (bred fine. Sauce.—Grated fugar in a faucer; melted butter, and green goofeberries boiled, in diffe- rent bafons; or, parfley and butter, with a lit- tle vinegar or lemon. To boil Eels. Having fkinned and wafhed your eels, and cut off the back fkins with a pair of fciffars, roll them round with the heads innermoft, and run a itrong fkewer through them. Put them into a ftew-pan, with a fufficient quantity of water, and a little vinegar and fait. Garnifh with diced lemon. Sauce. Parfley and butter. To boil a Pike, or Jack. Gut and clean your pike very well with fait and water, fallen the tail in the mouth with a fkewer, then put it into a ftew-pan, with as much water as will cover it, a little vinegar and fait, and a_piece of horfe-radifh diced. Garnifh with diced lemon, and fcraped horfe- radifh. Sauce. Anchovy, fhrimp, or foy fauce j or mehed butter and catchup.—See Sauce, No. ?2 or 34. To drefs a Turtle. Fill a boiler or kettle with a quantity of water fufficient to fcald the callapach a; d cal- lapee, the fins, &c. And about nine o’clock hang up your tuitie by the hind fins, cut off its40 Of B O I L I N G. its head, and fave the blood \ then with a {harp-pointed knife feparate the cailapach from the callapee (or the back from the belly part) down to the (houlders, fo as to come at the entrails, which take out, and clean as you would thofe of any other animal, and throw them into a tub of clean water, taking great- care not to break the gall, but to cut it from the liver, and throw it away. Then feparate each diftindtly, and put the guts into another veflel, open them with a fmall penknife, from end to end, walh them clean, and draw them through a woollen cloth in warm water, to clear away the flime, and then put them into clean cold water till they are ufed, with the other part of the entrails, which mull all be cut up fmall, to be mixed in the baking dilhes with the meat. This done, feparate the back and belly pieces entirely, cutting away the four fins by the upper joint, which fcald, peel off the loofe fkin, and cut them into fmall pieces, laying them by themfelves, either in another veflel, or on the table, ready to be feafoned. Then cut off the meat from the belly part, and clean the back from the lungs, kidneys, &c. and that meat cut into pieces as fmall as a walnut, laying it likewife by itfelf. After this you are to fcald the back and belly pieces, pulling off the Ihell from the back, and the yellow lkin from the belly, when all will be white and clean ; and with the kitchen cleaver cut thofe up likewife into pieces about the big- nefs or breadth ol a card. Put thefc pieces, into clean cold water, walh them out. and place themOf BOILING. 4? them in a heap on the table, fo that each part may lie by itfelf. ' The meat, being thus prepared and laid fe- parate, for feafoning, mix two-third parts of fait, or rather more, and one-thiid part of Cayenne pepper, black pepper, and a nutmeg and mace pounded fine, and mixed together; the quantity to be proportioned to the fize of the turtle, fo that in each difh there may be about three fpoonfuls of feafoning to every twelve pounds of meat. Your meat being thus feafoned, get forne fweet herbs, fuch as thyme, favory, &c. let them be dried and rubbed fine, and having provided fome deep difhes to bake in, (which fhould be of the common brown wrare) put in the coarfeft part of the meat at the bottom, with about a quarter of a pound of butter in each difh, and then fome of each of the feve- ral parcels of meat, fo that the difhes may be all alike, and have equal proportions of the dif- ferent parts of the turtle; and between each laying of the meat, ftrew a little of the mixture of fweet herbs. Fill vour difhes within an inch j and a half, or two inches of the top ; boil the blood of the turtle, and put into it; then lay on force-meat balls made of veal, or fowl, highly feafoned with the lame feafoning as the turtle; put in each difh a gill of good Madeira wine, and as much water as it willconveniently hold; then break over it five or lix eggs, to keep the meat from fcorching at the top, and over that fhake a handful of ihred parlley, to make it look green 5 when done put your difites42 Of B O T L I N G. diflies into an oven made hot to make bread, and in an hour and a half, or two hours, (ac- cording to the fize of your difhes) it will be fufficiently done. « To boll all Kinds of Garden Stuff. In dreffing all forts of kitchen gaiden herbs, take care that they are clean walked : that there be no fmall fnails, or caterpillars between the leaves ; and that all the coarfe outer leaves, and thofe that have received any injury by the wea- ther, be taken off. Next wafh them in a good deal of water, and put them into a cullender to drain. Care muft likewife be taken, that your pot or fauce-pan be clean, well tinned, and free from fand or greafe. To boil Afparagus. Firft cut the white ends off about fix inches from the head, and fcrape them from the green part downwards very clean. As you fcrape them, throw them into a pan of clean water; and after a little foaking, tie them up in fmall even bundles. When your water boils, put them in, and boil them up quick ; but by over boiling they will lofe their heads. Cut a dice of bread for a toail, and bake it brown on both fides. When your grafs is done, take them up carefully ; dip the toafl in the afparagus- water, and lay it in the bottom of your difh ; then lay the heads of the afparagus on it with the white ends outwards: pour a little melted >4 butterOf B O I L I N G. 43 butter over the heads ; cut an orange into fmail quarters, and Hick them between forgar- nifh. To boil Artichokes. Wring off the ftalks clofe to the artichokes : Throw j^iem into water, and wafh them clean ; then put them into a pot or fauce-pan. 1 hey will take better than an hour after the water boils; but the bell way is to take out a leaf, and if it draws eafy, they are enough. Send them to table with butter in tea-cups betwxen I each artichoke. To boil Colli flowers. A colliflower is the mod favourite plant in the kitchen garden amongft the generality of people. Takeoff all the green part, and cut the flower clofe at the bottom from the flalk ; and if it be large or dirty, cut it into four quarters, that it may lay better in the pan, arid be thoroughly cleanfed. Let it foak an hour, if poflible, in clean water ; and then put it into boiling milk and water, (if you have any milk,) or water only, and fkim the pan very well. When the flower or {talks left above Jt feel tender, it will be enough ; but it mull be taken up before it lofes its crifpnefs ; for colliflower is good for nothing that boils till it becomes quite foft. When enough, lay it to drain in a cullender for a minute or two, and ier've it up in a difh by itfelf, and with melted hatter in a baton. ToOf BOILING. 44- To boil Brocoli. ( Strip off the fmall brandies from the great: one, then with a knife peel off the hard out-- fide fkin which is on the ftalk and fmalli brandies, till you come to the top, and throw them into a pan of clean water as you do them. Have water boiling in a Hew-pan, with fome fait in it; when it boils, put in your bro- 1 coli, and as loon as the (talks are tender, they are enough. Take them up with a fkimmer,, and be careful you do not break the heads off. Some eat brocoli like afparagus, with a toad baked, and laid in the difh, with the brocoli ! upon it, and fent to table with a little melted butter poured over it. To boil French Beans. Take vour beans and firing them ; cut them in two, and then acrofs ; when you have done them all, fprinkle them over with fait, and ftir them together. As foon as your water boils, put them in, fait and all; make them boil up quick. They will be foon done, and look of a better green than when growing in the gar- den. If they are very young, only take off the ends, break them in two, and drcfs them in the fame manner. To boil Broad Beans. Beans require a good deal of water, and it is beft not to (hell them till juft before they are ready to go into the pot. When the wa- ter boils, put them in with fome pick’d par- y . Hey*Of B O I L I N G. 45 Hey, and fome fait: Make them boil up quick, and when you fee them begin to fall, they are enough. Strain them off. Garnifti the dxfh with boiled parfley, and fend plain butter in a cup, or boat. To boil Green Peafe. When your peas are fhelled, and the water boils, which (hould not be much more than will cover them, put them in with a few leaves of mint: As foon as they boil, throw in a piece of butter as big as a walnut, and ftir them about; when they are enough, ftrain them off, and fprinkle on a little fait; (hake them till the water drains off, fend them hot to table, with melted butter in a cup. ' To boil Cabbage. If your cabbage is large, cut it into quar- ters ; if fmall, cut it in half; let your water boil, then put in a little fait, and next your cabbage, with a little more fait upon it; make your water boil as foon as poflible, and when the ftalk is tender, take up your cabbage into a cullender, or fieve, that the water may drain off, and fend it to table as hot as you can. Savoys are dreffed in the fame manner. To boil Sprouts. Pick and wafh your fprouts very clean, and fee there are no fnails or grubs between the leaves, cut them acrofs the ftem, but not the heart; after they are well wafhed, take them out of the water to drain; when your wateriS Of BOILING. water boils, put in fome fait, and then the fproute, with a little more fair on them ; make them boil quick, and if any fcum arifes, take it clean off. As foon as the (talks are tender, itrain them off, or they will not only lofe their colour, but likewife their flavour. To boil Spinach. There is no herb requires more care in the wafhing, than fpinach ; you mull carefully pick at leaf by leaf, take off all the (talks, and wafh it in three or four waters ; then put it into a cullender to drain. It does not require much water to drefs it: half a pint, in a fauce-pan that holds two quarts, will drefs as much fpi- nach, as is generally wanted for a fmall fami- ly. When your water boils, put in your fpi- nach, with a fmall handful of fait, prefling it down with a fpoon as you put it into the fauce-pan ; let it boil quick, and as foon as tender, put it into a fieve or cullender, and prefs out all the water. When you fend it to table, raife it up with a fork, that it may lie hollow in the difh. To boil Turnips. A great deal depends upon preparing this root for boiling. They require paring till all the ftringy coat be quite cut off: for that out- fide will never boil tender. Being well rinded, cut them in two, and boil them in the pot with either beef, mutton, or lamb. When they become tender, take them out, prefs the liquor from them between two trenchers, put them intoOf B o I L I N G. 47 into a pan, and mafh them with butter and a little fait, and fend them to table in a plate or bafon by themfelves. Or fend them as they come out of the pot, in a plate, with fome melt- ed butter in a bafon, for every one to butter and feafon them as they like. To boil Parfnips. Parfnips are a very fweet root, and an agree- able fauce for fait fifti. They fhould be boiled in a great deal of water, and when you find they are foft (which is known by running a fork into them) take them up and carefully fcrape all the dirt off them, and then with a knife fcrape them all fine, throwing away all the dirty parts; then put them in a fauce-pan with fome milk, and ftir them over the fire till they are thick. Take care they do not burn ; add a good piece of butter, and a little fait, and when the butter is melted, fend them to table. But parfnips are in common ferved up in a difh, when well boiled and fcraped, with melt- ed butter in a bafon. To boil Carrots. Let them be fcraped very clean, and when they are enough, rub them in a clean cloth, then flice fome of them into _a plate, and pour fome melted butter over them ; and garnifh the difh with the others, either whole or cut in pieces, or fplit down the middle. If they are young fpring carrots, half an hour will4S Of B O I L I N G: will boil them; if large, an hour; but old Sandwich carrots will take two hours. To boil Potatoes. Potatoes mud always be peeled, except they be veiy fmall and new. Some pare potatoes before they are put into the pot; others think it the be ft way, both for Saving time and preventing wafte, to peel off the fkin as foon as they are boiled ; which then flips off by rubbing them with a. coarfe cloth. In boiling them take care they be enough, and not over done; for if boil- ed too much, they malh and become watery. Therefore it requires good attention when you are boiling potatoes, and that they be taken up as foon as they begin to fhew the leaft difpofition to break. This is a root in great requeft, and Served up in a difh or plate, whole for the mod part, with a bafon of melted butter. On which occafion it will be Some addition to the potatoes to let them before the fire till they are quite dry, and a little browned. CHAP. IV. Of FRYING. Of' Butcher’s Meat. \ To fry Tripe. CUT your tripe into pieces about three inches long, dip them into the yolk of an egg, and a few crumbs of bread, fry them ofOf F R Y I N G. 49 of a fine brown, and then take them out of the pan, and lay them in a dilh to drain. Have ready a warm dilh to put them in, and lend them to table, with butter and muftard in a cup. To fry Beef Steaks. Take rump {leaks; beat them very well with a roller, fry them in half a pint of ale that is not bitter, and whilft they are frying, for your Sauce, cut a large onion finall, a very little thyme, fome parfley (bred fmall, foine grated nutmeg, and a little pepper and fait; roll all together in a piece of butter, and then in a little flour, put this into the {lew-pan, and fhake all together. When the {leaks are tender, and the fauce of a fine thicknefs' dilh them up. Another JVay to fry Beef Steaks. Cut the lean by itfelf, and beat it well with the back of a knife, fry the {leaks in juft as much butter as will moillen the pan, pour out the gravy as it runs out of the'meat, turn them often, and do them over a gentle fire then fry the fat by itfelf, and lay upon the lean :—For Sau.ce, puttojthe gravy a glafs of red wine, half an anchovy, a little nutmeg, a little beaten pepper, and a fhallot cut fmall; give it two or three little boils, feafon it with fait to your pa- late, pour it over the {leaks, and fend them to table. To fry a Loin ''hf Lamb. Cut the loin into thin {leaks, put a very little pepper and fait, and a little nutmeg D OR5© 0/ F R Y I N G, on them, and fry them in frefh Tufter; when enough, take out the fteaks, lay them in a difh before the fire to keep hot ; then for Sauce, pour out the butter, fhake a little flour over the bottom of the pan, pour in a quarter of a pint of boiling water, and put in a piece of butter ; (hake all together, give it a boil or two up, pour it over the fteaks, and fend them to tabic. Note. You may do mutton the fame wav, and add two fpoonfuls of walnut-pickle. To fry Saufages with Apples. Take half a pound of faufages, and fix ap- ples ; flice four about as thick as a crown, cut the other two in quarters, fry them with the faufages of a fine light brown, and lay the fau- fages in the iniddle of the difh, and the apples round. Garnifh with the quartered apples. Stewed cabbage and faufages fried, is a good difh ; then heat cold peas pudding in the pan ; when it is quite hot, heap it in the middle of the difh, and lay the faufages all round edge- ways, and one in the middle at length. To fry cold Veal. Cut it into pieces about as thick as half a crown, and as long as ybu pieafe, dip them in the yolk of an egg, and then in crumbs of brtad, with a few fweet herbs, and Ihred lemon-peel in it; grate a little nutmeg over them, and fry them in frefh butter. The but- terOf F R Y I N G. si ter mu ft be hot, and juft enough to fry them in : For Sauce, make a little gravy of the bone of the veal; when the meat is fried, take it out With a fork, and lay it in a difh before the lire, then fhake a little flour into the pan, and ftir it round ; put in a little gravy, fqueeze in a little lemon, and pour it over the veal. Gar- nifh with lemon. To fry Beef Co Hops. Cut your beef in thin dices; about two in- ches long, lay them upon your drefler, and hack them with the back of a knife grate a little nutmeg ove.* them, and duft on fome flour ; lay them into a (lew pan, and put in as much water as you think fufficient for fauce ;. Aired half an onion, and a little lemon-peel very fine, a bundle of fweet herbs, and a little pepper and fait : Roll a piece of-butter in flour, and fet them over a clear fire till they begin to fitnmer ; ftiake them together often, but don’t let them boil up ; after they begin to fimmer, ten minutes will do them; take out your herbs, and difh them up. Garnilh the difii with pickles and horfe-radifh. To make Scotch Collops. Dip the flices of lean veal in the yolks of eggs, that have been beaten up with melted butter, a little fait, fome grated nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel. Fry them quick ; ftiake them all the t itle, to keep the butter from oiling. Then put to them fome beef gravy, and fome mulhrooms, or forced-meat balls! ^ 2 Garnilh52 Of F R Y I N G. ^ - y Garnilh with faufages and diced lemon, and llices of broiled or fried bacon. Olfcrvc, It you would have the collops white, do not dip them in eggs. And when fried ten- der, but not brown, pour off the liquor quite clefm ; put in fome cream to the meat, and give it juil a boil up. To fry Veal Clitic's. Cut a neck off veal into (leaks, and fry them in butter ; and having made a (hong broth of the ferag-end, boiled with two anchovies, fome nutmeg, fome lemon-pcei, and parflcy lhred very fmall, and browned with a little burnt butter, put the cutlets and a glafs of white wine into this liquor. Tofs them up together : thicken with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and difh all together. Squeeze a Seville orange over, and ftrew as much fait on as fliall give a relilli. To fry Mutton Cutlets. Take a handful of grated bread, a little thvmc-and parfley, and lemon peel (bred very fmall, with fome nutmeg, pepper, and fait; then take a loin of mutton, cut it into {leaks, and let them be well beaten ; then take the volks of two eggs, and rub the ftealcs all over. Strew on the grated bread w.th thefc ingredients mixed together. For the Sauce, take gravy, w ith a fpoonful oi two of claret, and a little wVchovy. Ttt53 • Of FRYING, To fry Calf s Liver and Bacon. Cut the liver in flices, and fry it firft brown and nice, and then the bacon ; lay the liver in the difh, and the bacon upon it. Serve it up with gravy and butter, and a little-orange or lemon juice, and garnifh with diced lemon. To fry Sweetbreads and JCidneys. After fplitting-the kidneys, fry them and the fweetbreads in butter. Serve them up with a brown ragoo fauce, and mulhrooms ; garmlh with fried pardey and diced lemon. To fry Eggs as round as Balls. Having a deep frying-pan, and three pints of clarified butter, heat it as hot as for fritters, and ftir it with a dick, till it runs round like a whirlpool; then break an egg into the middle, and turn it round with your dick, till it be as hard as a poached egg ; the whirling round of the butter will make it as round as a ball; then take it up with a dice, and put it in a difh be- fore the fire; they will keep not half an hour* and yet be foft; fo you may do as many as you pleafe. You may poach them in boiling water in the fame manner. Of Fish. To fry Carp. Scale and clean your carp very well, fit them in two, fprinkle them with fait, flour them, and fry them in clarified butter. Make a ragoo with a good fifh broth, the melts of your fifh, artichoke bottoms cut in Ana.l ^ A dice.54 Of FRYING. dice, and half a pint of (hrimps; thicken it with the yolks of eggs, or a piece of butter Tolled in flour: put the ragoo into a difh, and lay your fried carp upon it.' Garnilh with fried fippets, crifp parfley, and lemon. To fry Tench. Slime your tenches, flip the Ik in along the backs, and with the point of your knife raife it up from the bone ; then cut the fltin acrofs at the head and tail, ftrip it oft, and take out the bone ; then take another tench, or a carp, and mince the flelh fmall with mufhrooms, chives, and parfley. Seafon them with fait, pepper, beaten mace, nutmeg, and a few fa- voury herbs minced fmall. Mingle thefe ail •well together, then pound them in a mortar with crumbs of bread, as much as two eggs foaked in cream, the yolks of three or four eggs, and a piece of butter. When thefe have been well pounded, fluff the tenches with this fbrce : take clarified butter, put it into a pan, fet it over the fire, and when it is hot, flour your tenches, and put them into the pan one by one, and fry them brown ; then take them up, lay them in a coarfe cloth before the fire, to keep hot. In the mean time, pour all the greafe and fat out of the pan, put in a quarter of a pound of butter, lhake fome flour all over the pan, and keep ftirring with a fpoon till the but- ter is a little brown ; then pour in half a pint of white wine, Air it together, pour in half a pint of boiling water, an onion lhick with cloves.Of F R Y I N G. 55 cloves, a bundle of fweet herbs, and a blade or two of mace. Cover them clofe, and let them flew as foftly as you can for a quarter of an hour, then drain off the liquor, put it into the pan again, add two fpootifuls of catchup, have ready an ounce of truffles or morels boil- ed tender in half a pint of water, pour the truffles, water and all, into the pan, with a few mufhrooms, and either naif a pint of oyfters, clean waffled in their own liquor, and the li- quor and all put into the pan, or fome craw- fiffl ; but then you muft put in the tails, and after clean picking them, boil them in half a pint of water 3 then ftrain the liquor, and put into the fauce : or take fome fiffl-melts, and tofs up in your fauce. All this is juft as you fancy. . When you find your fauce is very good, put your tench into the pan, and make them quite hot, then lay them into your dilh, and pour the fauce over them. Garnifh with lemon. Or you may, for change, put in half a pint of ftale beer inftead of water. Or you may drefs tench juit as you do carp. * To fry Trout. Scale your trout clean, then gut them, and take out the gills, wafh them, and drv them in a cloth, flour them, and fry them in but- ter till they are of a fine brown; when they are enough, take them up, and ferve them ; fry lome 'parlley green and crifp, melt an- chovy and butter, with a fpoonful of white wme. Diffl your fifh, and garni(h with fried •D 4 parlley.56 Of FRYIN G. parfley, and fliced lemon. You may pour your fauce over' the fifh, or fend it in a boat, which you pleafe. In this manner you may fry pearch, fmall pike, jacks, roach, gudgeons," or a chine of irefh falmon. To fry fat Fijh. Dry the fifh well in a cloth, rub them over with the yolk of an egg, and dull over fome flour : fet your oil, butter, lard, or dripping be ready to boil before you put in the fifh ; fry them off with a quick fire, and let them be of a fine brown. Before you difh them up, lay them upon a drainer before,the fire Hoping, for two or three minutes, which will prevent their eating greafy.—For Sauce, take the Fijh Sauce, No. 36. You mud obferve on fall days, and in Lent, never to drefs your fifh in any thing but butter, or oil. To fry Herrings. After having cleaned your herrings, take out the roes, dry them and the herrings in a cloth; flour them, and fry them in butter of a fine brown ; lay them before the fire to drain ; llice three or four onions, flour them, and fry them nicely ; difh up the herrings, and garnilh them with the roes and onions : Send them up as hot as you can, with butter and muftard in a cup. To fry Eels. After having fkinned and cleaned your tels, fplit them, and cut them in pieces ; let themOf FRYING, 57 them lay for two or three hours in a pickie made, in vinegar, fait, popper, bay leaves, diced, onion, and juice of lemon ; then drudge them' well with hour, and fry them in clarified but- ter; ferve them dry with fried parfley, and le- mon for garnifh. Send plain butter and an- chovy fauce in feveral cups.- See Sauce, No. 34> 6r 35* To fry Lamprh's, Bleed them, and have the blood, then waflt them in hot water to take off the flime, cut them in-pieces, and let them be fried in butter, not quite enough ; drain out all the fat, then put in a little white wine, and lhake your pan -y feafon them with whole pepper, nutmeg, fait, i'weet herbs, and a bay leaf, a good piece of butter rolled in flour, and the blood that was favedcover them clofe, and fhake the pan often. When you thinkthey are enough, take them up, and give the fauce -a quick boil, fqueeze in a little lemon, and pour the fauce over the fifh. Send it to table garnifhed with lemon. To fry fmall Fijh of all Sorts. Small fifh are generally dreffed to garnifh a difh of filh, as fmelts, gudgeons, roach, fmall whitings, &c. Wipe them dry with a cloth, then rub them over with the yolk of an bgr/ flour them, and fry them in oil, butter, hog’s- lard, or beef-dripping ; take care they are fried ©f a fine light brown ; and if they are lent by themfelves in a difh, garnifli with fried parfley . anti lemon,. y ^ 5 Whiting's,S3 Of FRYING. Whitings, when fmall, fhould be turned round, the tail put into the mouths and To fried ; if large, they are fkinned, turned round and fried. Plaife, flounders, and dabs are rubbed over with eggs, and fried. Small maids are frequently dipped in batter and fried. As thefe forts of filh are generally drefled by themfelves for fupper, you may fend various fauces as you like beft ; either fhrimps, oyfters, anchovy and butter, or plain melted butter ; and fome chufe oil and lemon.-—-Set Sauces No. 32? 33’ 34> or 35. To fry Oyflers. - You muft make a batter of milk, eggs, and flour ; then take your oyfters and wafh them; wipe them dry, and dip them in the batter, then roll them in fome crumbs of bread and a little mace beat fine, and fry them in very hot butter or lard. Or, beat four eggs with fait, put in a little nutmeg grated, and a fpoenful of grated bread, then make it as thick as batter for pancakes, xvith'fine flour; drop the oyfters in, and fry them brown in clarified beef fuct. They are to lie round any difh of fifh. Ox-palates boil- ed tender, blanched, and cut in pieces, then fried in fuch batter, is proper to garnifh halhcs or fricafTees,59 Of F R_Y I N G. Of Garden Stuff. To fry Artichoke Bottoms. Firft blanch them in water, then flour them, fry them in frelh butter, lay them in your dilh, and pour melted butter over them. Or you may put a little red wine into the butter, and feaion with nutmeg, pepper, and fait. To fry Cauliflowers. Take two fine cauliflowers, boil them in milk and water, then leave one whole, and pull the other to pieces ; take half a pound of butter, with two fpoonfuls of water, a little, duft of flour, and melt the butter in a ftew- pan; then put in the whole cauliflower cut in two, and the other pulled to pieces, and fry it till it is of a very light brown. Seafon it with pepper and fait. \\ hen it is enough, lay the two halves in the middle, and pour the reft all over. To fry Celery. Take fix or eight heads of celery, cut off the green tops, and take off the outfide ftalks, wafh them clean ; then have ready half a pint of white wine, the y'olks of three eggs beat fine, and a little fait and nutmeg ; mix all well to- gether with flour into a batter, dip every head into the batter, and fry them in butter. When enough, lay them in the difh, and out melted butter over them. D & 'To6o 0/ B R O I L I N G. To fry Potatoes. Cut them into thin flices, as bigas a crown piece, fry them brown. Jay them in the plate or difh, pour melted butter, lack, and fugar over them. Thefe are a pretty corner plate. To fry Onions. Take fome large onions, peel them, and cut them into flices about a quarter of an inch thick; then dip thele dices into batter, or an egg beaten, without breaking them, and fry them of a nice brown. To fry Par fey. Pick the parfley very clean, and fee that it be young. Then put a little butter into a clean pan, and when it is very hot put in the parfley ; keep it birring with a knife till it be crif'p, then take it out, and ufe it as garnifh to fried lamb, &c. CHAP. V. Of BROILING. To broil Beef Steaks, Mutton, cr Pork Chops, LA Y your beaks on the gridiron, and throw upon tfiem pepper and faft to your tafte. Do not turn them till one fide be enough; and when the other fide has been turned a little while, a fine gravy will lie on the top, which you mub take care to preferve, and lift it altogether with a pair of fmail tongsjOf B R O I L I N G. 61 or carefully with a knife and fork, into a hot dilh, and put a little piece of butter under it, which will help to draw out the gravy. Some palates like it with a fhallot or two, or an onion, lhred very fine. But if they be mutton or pork fieaks, they mull be frequently turned on the gridiron. The general Sauce for fieaks is horfe-radifh for beef; muftard for pork ; and girkins pickled for mutton. But in the feafon, I would re- commend a good fa 11 ad, or green cucumbers, or celery, for beef and mutton j and green peas for lamb fieaks. To broil Pigeons. Put a bit of butter, fome fhred parfley, and a little pepper and fait in the bellies of the pi- geons, and tie them up neck and vent. Set your gridiron high, .that they may not burn ; and fend them up with a little melted butter in a cup. You may fplitthem, and broil them with a little pepper and fait; or you may roafl them, and ferve them up with a little parfley and butter in a boat. To broil Chickens. Slit them down the back, and feafon them with pepper and fait, lay them at a great dis- tance, on a very clear fire. Let the infide lie downward, till they are above half done: then turn them, and take great care the flelhy fide do not burn ; throw over them fome fine rafpings of bread, and let them be of a fine brown, but not burnt, Let your fauce be62 0/" BROILING. good gravy with mufhrooms, and garniih with lemon and the livers broiled, the gizzards cut, ilafhed, and broiled with pepper and fait — See Sauce, No. 16. . To broil Cod, Salmon, IVhiting, or Haddock. Flour them, and have a quick dear fire ; fet your gridiron high, broil them of a fine brown, and lay them in a dilh. For Sauce take good melted butter, with the body of a lobfler bruif- ed therein ; cut the meatfmall, put all together into the melted butter, make it hot, and pour it into the dilh, or into bafons. Garnilhwith horfe-radifh and lemon. . To broil Mackerel. Gut them, wafli them clean, pull out the roe at the neck end, boil it in a little water, then bruife it with a fpoon ; beat up the yolk of an egg, with a little nutmeg, lemon-peel cut fine, fhred thyme, fome parfley boiled and chopped fine, a little pepper and fait, and a few crumbs of bread; mix all well together, and fill the mackrel; flour them well and broil them nicely. Let your Sauce be plain butter, with a little catchup or walnut pickle. To broil Herrings. Scale them, gut them, cut off their heads, ■vvafh them clean, dry them in a cloth, flour them and broil them, but with a knife juft notch them acrofs : Take the heads and mailt them, boil them in fmall beer or ale, with a . little0/ BROILING. 63 little whole pepper and an onion. Let it boil a quarter of an hour, then ftrain it; thicken it with butter and flour, adding a good deal of muftard. Lay the fifh in a diih, and pour the fauce into a bal'on; or ferve them up with plain butter and muftard. To broil Cod Sounds. You muft fdrft lay them in hot water a few minutes'j take them out, and rub them well with fait, to take off the fkin and black dirt, and to make them look white; then put them in water, and give them a boil. Take them out and flour them well, pepper and fait them, and broil them. When they are enough, lay them in the difh, and pour melted butter and multard into the difh. Broil them whole. To broil Eels. Take a large eel, fkin it and make it clean. Open the belley, cut it in four pieces ; take the tail end, ftrip off the flefh, beat it in a mortar, feafon it with a little beaten mace, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and fait, a little parfley and thyme, a little lemon-peel, and an equal quantity of crumbs of bread; roll it in a little piece of butter, then mix it again with the yolk of an egg ; roll it up again, and fill the three pieces of beliy with it. Cut the fkin of the eel, wrap the pieces in, and few up the fkin. Broil them well, and have but- ter and an anchovy for fauce, with a piece of lemon.Of STEWING. 64 To fpitchcock Eels. You muft fplit a large-eel down the back, and joint the bones, cut it in two or thiee pieces, melt a little butter, put in a little vine- gar and fait, let your eel lay in it two or three minutes ; then take the pieces up one by one, turn them round with a little fine Ikewer, roll them in crumbs of bread, and broil them of a fine brown. Let your fauce be plain butter, with the juice of lemon, or good gravy with an anchovy in it. To broil Eggs. Firft put your falatnander into the fire, then cut a fiice round a quartern loaf, toaft it brown, and butter it, lay it in the dilh, and fet it be- fore the fire ; poach feven eggs, juft enough to fet the whites, take them out carefully, and lay them on your toaft : brown them with the falamander. grate fome nutmeg over them, and fqueeze Seville orange over ail. Garnifti your, dilh with orange cut in luces. CH API VI. Of STEWING. To flew Beef. T'AKE four pounds of Hewing beef, with the hard fat of brilket beef cut in pieces. Put -thefe into a ftew-pan with three pints of water, a little fait, pepper, dried marjoram powdered, and three cloves.- Cover the pan • veryOf STEWING. 651 very clofe, and let it Hew four hours over a How fire. Then throw into it as much turnips and carrots cut into fquare pieces, as you think convenient; and the white part of a large leek, two heads of celery Hired fine, a cruft ol bread burnt, and half a pint of red wine (or good fmall beer will do as well.) Then pour it all into a foup-dilh, and ferve it up hot, garnilh with boiled carrot lliced. To few Brifket of Beef. Having rubbed the brifket with common fait and falt-petre, let it lie four days. T hen lard the fkin with fat bacon, and put it into a ftew-pan with a quart of water, a pint of red wine or ftrong beer, half a pound of butter, a bunch of fweet herbs, three or four fhallots, fome pepper, and half a nutmeg grated. Co- ver the pan very clofe. Stew it over a gentle fire for fix hours. Then fry fome fquare pieces of boiled turnips very brown. Strain the liquor the beef wras llewed in, thicken it with burnt butter, and having mixed the turnips with it, pour all together over the beef in a large difli. Serve it up hot, and garnilh with lemon Hiced. An ox cheek, or a leg of beef, may be ferved up in the fame manner. To few Beef Gobbets. Cut any piece of beef, except the leg, in pieces, the fize of a pullet's egg. Put them into a ltew-pan, and cover them with water. Let66 Of STOWING. Let them (lew one hour, and fkim them very clean. Then add a fufficient quantity of mace, cloves, and whole pepper, tied up loofe in a m'uflin rag, fome celery cut fmall, and fait,, turnips, and carrots, pared and cut in dices, a little pardey, a bundle of fweet herbs, a large cruft of bread, and if you pleafe, add an ounce, of pearl barley, or rice. Cover all clofe, ancV. ilew it till tender. Then take out the herbs,, fpices, and bread, and add a French roll fried and cut in four. Difh up all together, and fend it to table. To Stew Ox Palates. Put the palates into a fauce-pan of cold wa- ter, and let them (lew very foftly over a (low fire till they are tender. Then cut them into pieces, and diih them with cox-combs and ar- tichoke bottoms cut fmall; and garnifh with lemon diced, and with fweetbreads dewed for white diflies, and fried for brown ones, and cut alfo into little pieces. N. B. This (lew is generally ufed for im- proving a fricafee, or a ragoo of veal, lamb, rabbits, cfc. To few Beef Steaks. Half broil the beef (leaks ; then put them into a flew-pan, feafon them with pepper and fait according to your palate ; juft cover them with gravy. Alfo put in a piece of butter rolled in flour. " Let them flew gently for half an hour, then add the yolks of two eggs beat up, and ftir all together for two or three minutes.Of S T E W I N G. 67 To ind ferve it up. Garnifh with pickles and xorfe-radifh fcraped. To Jlew Beef Collops. Cut raw beef, as veal is cut for Scotch col- lops. Put the collops into a ftew-pan with a little water, a glafs of white wine, a fhallot. a little dried marjoram rubbed to powder, fame fait and pepper, and a dice or two of fat ba- con. Set this over a quick fire, 111 the pan be full of gravy, which will be in a little time; add to it a little mufhtoom juice ; and then ferve it up hot; and garnifli with fliced lemon, or fmall pickles and red cabbage. To feu) Veal in general. Let the veal be under-roafted, or boiled ; cut it into thick dices, and jull covqr the veal with water in a dew-pan. Seafcn with pepper, fait, and grated nutmeg, a little mace, fweet marjo- ram, a fhallot, and lemon-thyme, or a little grated lemon-peel. Stew all together, and when almod enough, put into the liquor a lit- tle good gravy, and mulhroom liquor, a glafs of white wine, and a little lemon juice. Let thefe dew a little longer. Then fliain off the liquor, and thicken it with butter and flour. Lay the meat in the difli, and pour the fauce over it. Garnidt the difh with dppets, and fried oyflers, or bits of broiled bacon and fliced lemon, on the rim of the difh.€8 Of STEWING. To few a Knuckle of Veal. Boil the knuckle, till there is juft enough li- quor for fauce. To which add one fpoonful of catchup, one of red wine, and one of wal- nut pickle ; alfo fome truffles, morels, or dried.: mufhrooms cut fmall, if you pleafe. Boil all together. When enough, take up the meat lay it in a difh, pour the fauce or liquor over, it, and fend it to table, gamifhed with fliced, lemon. To few a Neck of Veal. Cut the neck of veal in fteaks, and feafon them well with a mixture of fait, pepper, grat- ed nutmeg, thyme, and knotted marjoram. Stew thefe gently over a flow fire, in cream or new milk, till they be enough, then add two anchovies, fome gravy or ftrong broth, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Tofs it up till it becomes thick. Then put it in a difh, and ferve it up hot. Garnifh with lemon fliced. To few a Breaf of Veal. Let the breaft be fat and white, cut ofF both ends, and boil them for gravy. Make a forced- meat of the fweet-bread boiled, a few crumbs of bread, a little beef fuct, two eggs, pepper and fait, a fpoonful or two of cream, and a little grated .nutmeg ; with which mixture, having raifed the thin part or the breaft, fluff the veal. Skewer thefkin clofc down, drudge it over with fhur; tie it up in a cloth, and flew it in milk and water about an hour. TheOf STEWIN G. 69 The proper Sauce for this difh is made of a itde gravy, about a gill of oyilei;s, a few mufh- ooms Hired fine, and a little juice of lemon, hickened with flour and butter. To )tew a Pig. Roafl a pig till it is thorough hot, then fkin ;t, cut it in pieces, and put it into a ffew-pan, with a fufticient quantity of ftrong gravy, a gill i)f white wine, fome pepper, fait, and nutmeg, an onion, a little marjoram, three fpoonfuls of elder vinegar, (if you have any) and a piece of butter ; cover all clofe, and flew it gently over a flow fire. When enough, ferve it up hot, ^put fippets upon it, and garnifh it with lemon fliced. To few Mutton Chops. Cut the chops thin, put them into a fhallow tin pan, with a cover that fhuts very clofe. -Add a very little water, with a little fait and pepper. Cover the pan very clofe, and fet it over a very flow fire. They'will be done in a very few minutes. Difh them with their own liquor. Garnifli with capers or other pickles. . ... ’ To ftcw a Leg or Neck of Mutton. Bone the joint to be ilewed. Break the bones, and put them in a fauce-pan, with a fufflcient quantity of whole pepper, fait, and mace, to make it rehfh; alfo one nutmeg bruifcd, otic anchovy, and one middling tur- nip ; a little faggot of fweet herbs, two middling onions quartered, a pint of ale, (and70 Of STE W I N G. (and as much red wine, if you like it) two quarts of water, and a hard cruft of bread. Stop it clofe, and let it ftew five hours. Then put in the mutton, and let it ftew two hours. ' To few a Hare. Beat it well with a rolling-pin in its own blood. Cut it into little bits and fry them. Then put the hare into a ftew-pan, with a quart of ftrong gravy, pepper and fait accord- ing to the palate, and let it ftew till tender. Thicken it with butter and flour. Serve it up in its gravy, with fippets in the dilh, and lemon lliced for garnifh. To jug a Hare. Having cafed the hare, turn the blood 'out of the body into the jug. Then cut the hare to pieces, but do not wadi it. Then cut three quarters of a pound of fat bacon into thin dices. Pour upon the blood about a pint of ftrong old pale beer : put into the jug a middling-fized onion, ftuck with three or four cloves, and a bunch of fweet herbs : and having feafoned the hare with pepper, fait, nutmeg, and lemon- peel grated, put in the meat, a layer of hare, and a layer of bacon. Then flop the jug clofe, fo that the fteam be kept in entirely ; put the jug into a kettle of water over the fire, and let it ftew three hours, then drain off the liquor and having thickened it with burnt butter, fervc it up hot, garnilhed with lemon diced. * ToOf STEWING. 7 jf To Stew a Turkey or Fowl. Take a turkey or fowl, put it into a fauce- an or pot, with a fufficient quantity of gravy, r good broth \ a bunch of celery cut final!, ad a muflia rag, filled with mace, pepper, nd ali-fpice, tied loofe, with an onion and a- jrig of thyme. When thefe have ftewed foftly ill enough, take up the turkey or fowl: thicken he liquor it was ftewed in with butter and lour : and having difhed the turkey, or fowl, )our the fauce into the difh. To flew Chickens. Cut two chickens into quarters, wafli them md put them into a clean fauce-pan, with a sint of water, half a pint of red wine, fome uace, pepper, a bundle of fweet herbs, an anion, and a piece of ftale cruft of bread. Cover them clofe, and flew them half an hour. Then put in a piece of butter as big as an egg, rolled in flour, and cover it again clofe for five or fix minutes. Shake the lauce-pan about, and take out the onion and fweet herbs. Gar- nifh with fliced lemon. N. B. Rabbits, partridges, &c. may be done the fame way ; and it is the moll inno- cent manner for fick or lying-in perfons. To Steve Pi?eons. o Stuff the bellies of the pigeons with a fea- foning made of ground pepper, fait, beaten mace, and fome fweet herbs fhred verv fine. Tie up the neck and v-ent, and when half roafted,72 Of S T E W I N G. To roafled, put them into a flew-pan, with a fuf- ficient quantity of gravy, a little white wine, feme pickled mufhrooms, and a bit of lemon- peel. Let them (lew till enough.—Then take them out, thicken the liquor with butter and the yolks of eggs. Difh the pigeons, and pour the fauce over them, Garnifh with lemon. Ah B. If you would enrich this receipt You may, when the pigeons are almolf done, put in fome artichoke bottoms, boiled, and fried in butter, or afparagus tops boiled. To jug Pigeons. Trufs and feafon the pigeons with pepper and fait; and having fluffed them with a mix- ture of their own livers fined with beef fuet, bread crumbs, parfley, marjoram, and two eggs, few them up at both ends, and put them into the jug, the breafls downwards, with half a pound of butter. Stop up the jug, fo that no fleam can get out ; then fet them in a pot of water to flew. They will take two hours and riiore in doing, and they mull boil all the time. When ffewed enough, take them out of the gravy, fkim off the fat clean ; put a fpoonful of cream, a little lemon-peel, an anchovy fhred, a few mufhrooms, and a little white wine to the gravy, and having thickened it with but- ter and flour, and difhed up the pigeons, pour the fauce over them. Garnifh with fliccd le- mon.Of STEWING. 7} To JleW Ducks. Draw and clean your ducks well, and put them into a ftew-pan with firong beef gravy, a glafs of red wine, a little whole pepper, an onion, an anchovy, and fome lemon peel. When well ftcwed, thicken the gravy with butter and flour, and ferve all up together, gar- niflied with ihallots. To flew JVild Fowl. Half roaft a wild duck, faff, then cut it into hits. When cold, put it into a flew pan, with a fufikient quantity of beef gravy, and let it flew till tender. Then thicken it with burnt butter, and ferve it up all together, with fip- pets within the Tides, and lemon lliced on the rim of the dilh. 4 To fteiu Giblets. Let the giblets be clean pick’d and wafhed, the feet Ikinned, and the bill cut off, the head fplit in two, the pinion bones broken, the liver and gizzard cut in four, and the neck in two pieces : put them into half a pint of water, with pepper, fait, a fmall onion, and fweet herbs. Cover the fauce-pan clofe, and let them flew till enough, upon a flow fire. Then fea- fonthem with fa ft, take out the onion and herbs, and pour them into a dilh with all the liquor.- To -ftcvj Carp or Tench'. Scrape them very clean, then gut them ; wafli them and the roes in a pint of o-ood E fiale74 Of S T E W I N G. dale beer, to preferve all the blood, and boll the carp with a little fait in the water. Jn'the mean time fbain the beer, and put it. Into a fauce-pan with a pint of red wine, two or three blades of mace, feme whole pep- per, black and white, an onion duck with cloves, half a nutmeg bruifed, a bundle of fweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel as big as a fix-pence, an anchovy, and a little piece of horfe-radifh. Let thefe boil together foftly for a quarter of an hour, covered clofe; then drain the liquor, and add to it half the hard roe beat to pieces, two or three fpoonfuls of catchup, a quarter of a pound of frelh butter, and a fpoon- ful of inulhroom pickle; let it boil, and keep dirring it till the fauce is thick and enough ; if it wants any fait, you mud put fome in; then take the red of the roe, and beat it up with the yolk of an egg, fome nutmeg, and a little, lemon-peel cut fmall; fry it*in frefh but- ter in little cakes, and foine pieces of bread cut three-corner-ways and fried brown. When the carp are enough take them up, pour your fauce over them, lay the cakes round the difli, with horfe-radifh fcraped fine, and fried pardey. The red lay on the carp, and put the fried bread about them : lay round them diced lemon notched upon the edge of the dilh, and two or three pieces on the carp. Send them to table hot. 9 , To Jtew a Cod. Cur your cod into dices an inch thick, lay them in the bottom of a large dew-pan, ftafon them :Of STEWING. 75 them with nutmeg, beaten pepper, and fait, s bundle of fweet herbs, and an onion, half a pint of white wine, and a quarter of a pint of water; cover it clofe, and let it fimmer foftly for five or fix minutes; then fqueeze in the juice of a lemon ; put in a few oyfiers and the liquor, (trained ; a piece of butter as big as an egg rolledJn flour, and a blade or two of mace; cover it clofe, and let it (tew foftly, fhaking the pan often. When it is enough, take out the fweet herbs and onion, and difh it up ; pour the fauce over it. Garnifh with lemon. To Jlcw Eels. Stew, gut, and wafh them very clean in fix or eight waters, to wafh away all the land ; then cut them in pieces about as long as your finger; put juft water enough in the pan for fauce, with an onion ftuck with cloves, a lit- tle bundle of fweet herbs, a blade qf mace, and fome whole pepper in a thin mufhn rag, cover the pan, and let them flew very foftly. Look at them now and then ; put in a little red wine, the juice of half a lemon, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. When you find they are quite tender and well done, take Iout the onion, fpice, and fweet herbs. Put in fait enough to leafon them, and difh them up with the fauce. To Jlew Oyfters or Mufclcs. Plump them in their own liquor; then, having drained off the liquor, wafh them clean in fair water. Set the liquor drained E 2 from76 Of S T E W I N G. To from the oyfters, or as much as is neccflary, (with the addition of an equal quantity of water and white wine, a little whole pepper, and a blade of mace,) over the fire, and boil it well. Then put in the oyfters, and let them juft boil up, and thicken with a piece of but- ter and flour: fome will add the yolk of an egg. Serve them up with fippets and the li- quor, and garmlh the dilh with grated bread, or lliced lemon. To pew Spinach and Eggs. Pick and walh your fpinach very clean, put it into a fauce-pan without water, throw in a little fait, cover it clofe, and lhake the pan often •, when it is juft; tender, and whilft it is green, put it into a lieve to drain, and lay it in your dilh. In the mean time have a Dew- pan of water boiling, break as many eggs in feparate cups as you would poach. When the water boils, put in the eggs ; have an cgg-fticc ready to take them out with, lay them on the fpinach, and garnilh the dilh with orange cut in quarters, and fend up melted butter in a cup. To few Parfnips. Scrape them clean from the dirt, boil them tender, cut them into ilices, put them into a fauce-pan, with cream enough for fauce, a piece of butter rolled in flour, a little fait, and lhakc the fauce -pan often. When the cream boils, pour them into a plate for a corner-dilh, or a fidc-difh at fupper.Of STEWING. 77 To Jlevu Cucumbers. Pare twelve cucumbers, and flice them as thick as a crown-piece ; put them to drain, and then lay them in a coarte cloth till they are dry ; flour them, and fry them brown in but- ter; put out the fat, then put to them fome gravy, a little port wine, fome pepper, cloves, and mace; let them flew a little; then roll a bit of b itter in flour, and tofs them up ; iea- fon with fait : You may add a little muihrooin liquor. To few Peafe and Lettuce. Take a quart of green peafe, two nice let- tuces clean walhed and picked, cut them fmall acrofs, put all into a fauce pan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and pepper and fait to your palate ; cover them clofe, and let them Hew gently, fhaking the pan often. Let them flew ten minutes, then (hake in a little flour; tofs them round, and pour in half a pint of good gravy; put in a little bundle of llveet herbs, and an onion, with three cloves, and a blade of mace {luck in it, Cbver the pan clofe, and let them flew a quarter of an hour longer ; then take out the onion and iweet herbs, and pour the reft into the di(h. To few Red Cabbage. Take a red cabbage, lay it in cold water for an hour, cut it into thin flices acrofs, and then into little pieces. Put if into a ftew- pan, with a pound of faufages, a pint of 3 gravy.7 8 Of STEWING. gravy, a little bit of ham or lean bacon ; cover it dole, and let it ftew half an hour; then take the pan off the fire, and fkim away the fat, fhakc in a little flour, and fet it on again. Let it ftew two or three minutes, then lay the iiiufages in the difh, and pour the reft all over. You may, before you take it up, put in half a lpoonful of vinegar. To few Pears. . Pare lix pears, and either quarter them, or do them whole : (they make a pretty difh with one whole, the reft; cut in charters, and the cores taken out.) Lay them in a deep earthen pot, with a few cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, a gill of red wine, and a quarter of a pound of line l'ugar. If the pears are very large, they will take half a pound of fugar, and half a pint of red wine ; cover them dole with paper,’ and bake them till they are enough. Serve them up hot or cold, juft as you like them > and they will be very good with water in the place of wine. To ftew Muf rooms. Take frefh mufhrooms, clean them well, let their ikins be pulled off, ahd their gills feraped out, if they happen to be found, or dfe do not ufe them ; cut the muthrooms in large pieces, and put them all together in a fauce-pan, without any liquor ; cover it clofe, and let them ftew gently, with a little lalt, till they are tender, and cover’d' with liquor'; thenOf HASH *E s. 79 then take out: your mudirooms, and drain them, or elle put fome pepper to them, with fome white wine, and when they have boiled up, pour off the fauce, and thicken it with a little butter rolled in. flour ; fome will put in a fliallct with the fpice, but that will fpoil'the flavour of the mufhrooms, which every body defires to preferve. CHAP. VII. Of HASHES. To haf) Beef TAKE* the raw part of any piece of roafted beef, and cut it into thin flices, about the length of a little finger, and about the fame breadth. Take alfo a little water, and an equal quantity of gravy; boil it well with a large onion cut in two, pepper and fait, then take a piece of butter rolled in flour, and ftir it in the pan till it burns. Put it into the fauce, and let it boil a minute or two. Then put in the fliced beef, but you muff only juft let it warm through. Some add a few whole capers, mufh- rooms, walnut pickle, or catchup. Serve this up to table in a foup-difh, garnilhed with pic- kles. To hajh Mutton. Take, mutton half roafted, and cut it in pieces as big as a half-crown] then put into E 4 • theSo 0/ HASH E S. the fauce-pan half a pint of red wine, as much ftrong broth or gravy, (or water, if you have not the other) one anchovy, a fhallot, a little whole pepper, fome nutmeg grated, and fait to your tafte; let thefe Hew a little, then put in the meat, and a few capers and famphire fhred; when it is hot through, thicken it up w th a piece of frelh butter rolled in flour; have toaft- ed fippets ready to lay in the difh, and pour the meat on them. Garnilh with lemon. To drefs a Lamb's Head and Pluck. Boil the head and pluck a quarter of an hour at moll, the heart five minutes, the liver and lights half an hour. Cut the heart, liver, and tights into fmall fquare bits, not bigger than a pea. Make a gravy of the liquor /hat tuns . from the head with a quarter of a pint cf the liquor in which it was boiled, a little walnut liquor or catchup, and a little vinegar, pepper, and fait. Then put in the brains and the hafhed meat, lhake them well together in the liquor, which fhould be only juft as much as to wet the meat. Pour all upon the fippets in a foup difh ; and, having grilled the head be- fore the fire, or with a falamander, lay it open with the brown fide upwards upon (he hafhed fiver, &'c. Garnilh with fiiced pickled cucum- bers, and thin fiices of bacon broiled.. To mince Veal. Take any part of veal that is under done, either roafted or boiled, and Hired it as line as pofliblcOf HASHES. 9 t pofiible with a knife. '•Then take a fufiieient quantity of beef gravy, diffolve in it the quan- tity of a hazle nut of cavear to half a pound of meat, and then put into the gravy the minced veal, and let it boil not above a minute. Pour it into a foup plate or dilh upon lippets of bread toafted ; and garnifh the dilh with pickled cu- cumbers, Cs’e. or with thin llices of bacon broiled. To hajh a Calf's Head brown. Take a calf’s head and boil it; when it is cold, take one half of the head, and cut off the meat in thin llices, put it into a llew-pan, with a little brown gravy, adding a fpoonful or two of walnut pickle, a fpoonful of catch- up, a little red wine, a little (hred mace, a few capers Hired, or a little mango; boil it over a Hove, and thicken it with butter and Hour. Take the other part of the head, cut off the bone ends, and fcore it with a knife, feafon it with a little pepper and fait, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, and drew over a few bread crumbs, and a little parfley ; then fet it before the fire to broil till it is brown ; and when yon dilh up the other part, put this in the middle ; lay about your balh brain cakes, "With forced- meat balls, and crifp bacon. To make the Brain Cake*.. Take a handful of bread crumbs, a little Hired lemon-peel, pepper, fait, nutmeg, fweet marjoram, parfley flircd fine, and the yolks of three eggs; take the brains and 1km jthemr E 5 buT$2 , Of Hashes. boil and chop them fmall, fo mix them all to- gether ; put a little butter in your pan when you fry them, and drop them in as you do fritters. If they fhould run in your pan, put in a handful more of bread crumbs. . To haft) a Calf's Head white. Take a calf’s head, and boil it as much as you would do for eating; when it is cold cut it in thin dices, and put it into a dew-pan, with a white gravy; then put to it a little fait, fhred mace, a pint of oyfters, a few fhred mudi- rooms, lemon-peel, three fpoonfuls of white wine, and fome juice of lemon ; fhake all to- gether, boil it over the dove, and thicken it up with a little butter and dour. When you put it in the didi, you mud lay a boiled fowl in the middle, and a few dices of crifp bacon round the difli. To Drefs a Mock Turtle. Take a calf s head with the fkin upon it, and fcald off the hair as you would do off a pig ; then clean it, cut off the horny part in thin dices, with as little of the lean as podible ; put in the brains, and the giblets of a goofe well boiled ; have ready between a quart and three pints of ftrong mutton or veal gravy, with a pint of Madeira wine^a large tea-fpoonful of Cayenne pepper, half the peel of a large lemon fhred as fine as podible, a little fait, the juice of two lemons ; flew all thefe together, till the meat is very tender, which will be in about an hour and a half; and then have ready the ■ * back0/ H A S H E S. 83 back fhell of a turtle, edged with a pa fie of fiour and water, which you tnuft firft letm the oven to harden ; then put in the ingredients, and fet it into the oven to brown the top ; and when that is done^ garnifh the top with yolks of eggs boiled hard, and forced-meat balls. N. B, If you cannot get the fhell of a tur- tle, a China foup-difh will do as well; and the cruft may be omitted. To hajh cold Fowl. Cut your fowl up, divide the legs, wings, breaft, &c. into two or three pieces each ; then put them into a ftew-pan, with a blade or two of mace, and a little fhred lemon-peel; drudge on a little flour, and throw in fome gravy ; when it begins to fimmer, put in a few pickled mufhrooms, and a lump of butter rolled in flour. When it boils, give it a tofs or two, and pour it into the difh. Garnifh with fliccd lemon and barberries. To hajh a Hare. Cut up your hare entirely, put it into a flew- pan with fome good gravy, a gill of red wine, fbme fhred lemon-peel, and a bundle of fweet herbs; let it flew for an hour, then add fome forced-meat balls, and yolks of twelve hard-boiled eggs, with truffles and morels. Give them a boil up, then take out the herbs, place the hare handfomely on the difh, and pour the gravy, fsV. over it. Garnifh with fliced lemon and baiberries, *■[ 8+ ] CHAP. VIII. Of SOUPS. To make Gravy Soup. AKE the bones of a rump of beef, and a piece of the neck, and boil it till you have all the goodnefs of it; then {train it off, and take a good piece of butter, put it in a itew pan, and brown it, then put to it an onion {tuck with cloves, fome celery, endive, ipinach, and three carrots; put to your gravy fome pepper, fait, and cloves, and let it boil alt together : then put in fippets of bread dried by the fire ; and you may add a glafs of red wine. Serve it up with a French roll toalted, and laid in the middle. Take four pounds of gravy beef, two pounds of fcrag of mutton, two pounds of fcrag of veal; Itew them well down in a fufficient quantity of water for a ftrong broth; let it Hand till it is quite cold, then fkim the fat clean off. Take two pair of giblets well fcalded and cleaned, put them into your broth, auci let them fimmer till they are Hewed ten- der ; then take out your giblets, and run the foup through a line fieve to catch the fmall bones; then take an ounce of butter, and put it into a {lew-pan, mixing a proper quantity of Hour, to make it of a fine light brown. To make a rich Glblet Soup, TakeOf S O U P S. 85 Take a fmall handful of chives, the fame of pariley, and a very iittle of fweet marjoram4 chop all thefe herbs together exceflive fmall ; fet your foup over a flow fire, put in. your gib- lets, butter and flour, and fmall herbs : then take a pint of Madeira wine, fome Cayenne pepper, and fait to your palate. Let them all limmer together, till the herbs are tender, and the foup is finilhed. Send it to table with the giblets in it. N. B. The livers mull be Hewed in a fauce- pan by themfelves, and put in the dilh when you ferve it up. To make a good Peafe Soup. Take a quart of fplit peafe, put them into a gallon of fofi water, with a bunch of herbs, fome whole Jamaica and black pepper, two or three onions, a pound of lean beef, a pound of mutton, and a pound of the belly-piece of fait pork ; boil all together, till your meat is thoroughly tender, and your foup ftrong ; then ftrain it through a fieve, and pour it into a clean fauce-pan ; cut and wafh three or four large heads of celery, fome fpinach, and a little dried mint, rubbed fine ; boil it till your cele- ry is tender, then ferve it up with bread cut in dice and fried brown. To make green Peafe Soup. Have a knuckle of veal of four pounds, a pint and a half of the oldeft green peafe fhel- led, fet them over the fire with five quarts of water add two or three blades of mace, a quarter86 Of S O U P S a quarter of an ounce of whole pepper, aftnall onion ft uck with three cloves, and a bunch of - fweet herbs; cover it dole, and let it boil till half is walled ;* ftrain.it off, and pafs your li- quor through a fieve, put it into a clean fauce- pan, with a pint ot the youngeft peas, the heart of a cabbage, a lettuce or two, and the white part of three or four heads of celery, cut fmall; cover it clofe,.and let it ftew tor an houb If you think it is not thick enough, take forae of your foup, and put in half a fpoonful of flour ; ftir it in a bafon till it is fmooth ; pour it into your foup ; ftir it well together, and let it boil for ten minutes ; then difti it up with the cruft; of a French roll. J l.. • . ill To make a While portable Soup. Take a leg of veal, bone it, and take off all the fkin and fat; take iikewife two dozen of fowls or chickens feet, walked clean, and chop- ped to. pieces ; put all into a large ftoving-pot, with three gallons of foft water, and let it ftove gently, till the meat is fo tender as to feparate. You muft keep your pot tight covered, and a conllant fire during; the time of its ftoving ; in about (even or eight hours, try your jelly in a cup, and when aulte cold, if it is fo ftiff as that you can cut it with a knife, take it off, and ftrain it through a fieve, and take off all the ffat and fcum firft with a fpoon, and then with a philfering paper: Provide china cups, and fill them with the clear jelly ; fet them in a gravy-pan, or a large ftew-pan of boiling water over a ftove y iivthis water bo'il your jelly - •- inOf S O U P Sr> 8 7 n the cups, till it is as thick as glue. After vhich, let them Hand in the water till they are juite cold : Before you turn them out of your ;ups, run the edge of a knife round, to loofen them; then turn them upon a piece of new lannel, which will draw out all the moifture gradually. Tuin them every fix or eight hours, HI they are perfectly dry, and like a piece of glue; keep them in as dry a place as you can, and in a little time they will be fo hard, that you may carry them in your pocket, without the lealt inconvenience. When you want to rufe it, take a piece about the bignefs of a wal- nut, and pour a pint of boiling water on it, ftirring it till it is diflolved; feafon it with fait to your tafte, and you will have a bafon of 'ftrong broth. If you want a dilh of foup, boil vermicelli in water ; then to a cake of your foup, pour a pint of water, fo that four cakes will make two quarts ; when it is thoroughly melted, fet it over the fire juft to firnmer ; pour it into the dilh, put in thin flices of bread har- dened before the fire, and the vermicelli upon them. Thus you have a dilh of foup in about ; half an hour. Whilft this is doing, you may have any thing drefled to follow, which will not only be a good addition to your dinner, but’ faving time. Note. Seafon it to your palate, as there is no fait or feafoning in the preparation. To make a Brown portable Soup. Take a large leg of beef, bone it, and take oft' the fkin, and what fat you can; put it intoM Of SOUP S. into a floving pot, with a tight cover ; put to it about four gallons of foft water, with fix anchovies, halt an ounce ot mace, a few cloves, half an ounce of whole white pepper, three onions cut in two, a bunch of thyme, fweet marjoram, and parfley, with the bottom cruft of a two penny loaf that .is well baked ; cover it very dole, and let it have a conftant fire to do leifurely for feven or eight hours; then ftir it very well together, to make the meat feparate : cover it dole again, and in an hour try your broth in a cup, to fee if it will glutinate; if it does, take it off, and ftrain it through a canvas'jelly-bag into a clean pan; then have China or well-glazed earthen cups, and fill them with the. clear jelly; put them into a broad gravy-pan, or ftew-pan, with- boiling-water ; fet in the cups, and let them boil in that till they are perfectly glue. When they are ahnoft cold, run a knife round them, and turn them upon a piece of new flannel, to draw out all the moifture ; in fix or feven hours, turn them, and do fo till they are perfectly hard 3nd dry ; put them into ftone jars, and keep, them in a dry place. This is very good for foups, fauces, arid gravies. When you intend to make it into foup, fhred and wafh very clean what herbs, you have to enrich it, as celery, endive, cher- vil, leeks, lettuce, or indeed what herbs you can get; boil them in water till they are ten- der, ftrain them off, and with that water dif- /olve what quantity of portable foup you pleafe, according to the ftrength you would have it. If'Of S O U P S. 8g If you are where you can get it, fry a French roll, and put it in the middle of your dilh, moiftened flirt with fome of your foup ; and when your cakes are thoroughly melted, put your herbs to it, and fet it over the fire till it is juft at boiling ; then dilh it up, and fend it to table. To make VermaccUi Soup. Take two quarts of flrong veal broth, put it into a clean fauce-pan, with a piece of bacon ftuck with cloves, and half an ounce of butter rolled in flour; then take a fmall fowl trufled to boil, break the breaft bone, and put it into your foup; ftove it clofe, and let it flew three quarters of an hour ; take about two ounces of vermacelli, and put to it fome of the broth ; fet it over the fire till it is quite tender. When yjur foup is ready, take out the fowl, and put it into the difh; take out your bacon, fkim your foup as foon as poflible, then pour i.t on the fowl, and lay your vermacelli all over it ; cut fome French bread thin, put it into your foup, and fend it to table. if you cliufe it, you may make your foup with a knuckle of veal, and fend a handfome piece of it in the middle of the difh, inflead of the fowl. To make Soup Lorra'm. Have ready a flrong veal broth that is white, and clean feummed from all fat; blanch a pound of almondSj beat them in a mortar, with$0 0/ SOUP s. with a little water, to prevent their oiling, and the yolks of four poached eggs, the lean part of the legs, and all the white part of a roafted fowl ; pound all together, as fine as pofttble ; then take three parts of the veal broth, put it into a clean ftew-pan, put your ingredients in, and mix them well together ; chip in the cruft of two French rolls well rafped ; boil all toge- ther over a ftove, or a clear fire. Take a French roll, cut a piece out of the top, and take out all the crum ; mince the white part of a roafted fowl very fine, feafon it with pepper, fait, nut- meg, and a little beaten mace; put in about an ounce of butter, and moiften it with two fpoonfuls of your foup fttained to it; let it over the ftove to be thorough hot: Cut fome French rolls in flices, and let them before the fire to crifp ; then ftrain off your foup through a tammy or a lawn ftrainer, into another clean ftew-pot; let it flew till it is as thick as cream ; then have your difh ready ; put in fome of your crifp bread ; fill your roll with the mince, and lay on the top as clofe as poflible ; put it in the middle of the difh, and pour a ladleful of your foup over it; put in your bread firft, then pour in the foup, till the difh is full. Garnifh with petty patties ; or make a rim for your difh, and garnifh with lemon raced. If you pleafe, you may fend a chicken boned in the middle, inftead of the roll; or you may fend it to table with only crifp bread.Of S O U P S. To make Sorrel Soup with Eggs. Take the chump end of a loin of mutton, and part of a knuckle of veal, to make your flock with ; feafon it with pepper, fait, cloves, mace, and a bunch of fweet herbs ; boil it till it is as rich as you would have it ; ftrain it off, and put it into a clean fauce-pan : Put in a young fowl, cover it over, and ftove it; then take three or four large handfuls of forrel wafh-, ed clean; chop it grofly, fry it in butter, put it to your foup, and let it boil till your fowl is thoroughly done ; fkim it clean, and fend it to table with the fowl in the middle, and fix poached eggs placed round about it. Garnifh the dilh with fippets, and Hewed forrel. To make Afparagus Soup. Take five or fix pounds of lean beef cut in lumps, and rolled in flour ; put it in your (lew- pan, with two or three flices of fat bacon at the. bottom ; then put it over a flow fire, and cover it clofe, Airring it now and then till the gravy is drawn : then put in two quarts of water, and half a pint of ale. Cover it clofe, and let it flew gently for an hour, with fome whole pepper, and fait to your mind ; then flrain off the liquor, and take off the fat; put in the leaves of white beets, fome fpinach, fome cabbage lettuce, a little mint, fome forrel, and a little fweet marjoram powdered ; let thefe boil up in your liquor, .then put in the green tops of afparagus cut final!, and let them boil till all *SOUPS for LENT. all is tender. Serve it up hot, with a French roll in the middle. Ruh Soups in Lent, or for Fafl Days. To make a Craw Fijh Soup. Cleanfe them, and boil them in water, Lit, and fpice ; pull off their feet and tails, and try them ; break the reft of them in a ftone mor- tar, feafon them with favoury fpice, and an onion, a hard egg, grated bread, and l'sveet herbs boiled in good table beer; drain it, and put to it fealded chopped partley, and French rolls ; then put in the fried craw-fifh, with a few mufh rooms. Garnifh the difh with flieed lemon, and the feet and tail of a crawfifh. To make Oyfter Soup. Have ready a good fifh ftock, then take two quarts of oyfters without the beards; bray the hard part in a mortar, with the yolks ot ten hard eggs. Set what quantity of fith ftock you fhall want over the fire with your oylters ; fea- fon it with pepper, fait, and grated nutmeg. When it boils, put in the eggs, and let it boil till it is as thick as cream. Dilh it up with bread cut in dice. To make an Eel Soup. Take cels according to the quantity of foup you would make; a pound of eels will make a pint of foup ; fo to every pound of eels put a quart of water, a cruft of bread, two or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper, anSOUPS > LENT. 93 an onion, and a bundle of fweet herbs ; cover them clofe, and let them boil till half the liquor is wafted ; then ftrain it, toaft fome bread, and cut it fmall, lay the bread in the difh, and pour in your foup. If you have a ftew hole, let the dilh over it for a minute, and fend it to table. If you find your foup not rich enough, you muft let it boil till it is as ftrong as you would have it, and add a piece of carrot to brown it. To make a brown Soup. Into a clean fauce-pan, put three quarts, or more, of water, with rafpings fufficient to thicken it, two or three onions cut acrofs, two or three cloves, fome whole pepper, and a l.ttle fait; cover it clofe, and let it boil about an hour and a half, then ftrain it through a fieve ; have celery, carrots, endive, lettuce, lpinach, and what other herbs you like, not cut too fmall, and fry them in butter ; take a clean ftew-pan, that is large enough for your ingre- dients, put in a good piece of butter, duft in four, and keep it ftirring till it is of a fine brown ; then pour in your herbs and foup, boil it till the herbs are tender, and the foup of a proper thicknefs. Have bread cut in dice, and fried brown ; pour your foup into the dilh, put fome of the bread into the foup, the reft in a plate, and ferve it up. To make a white Soup. Put in a clean fauce-pan two or three quarts of water, the crumb of a two-penny loaf,94 SOUPS for LENT. loaf, with a bundle of herbs, fome whole pep- per, two or three cloves, an onion or two cut acrofs, and a little fait; let it boil covered till it is quite fmooth ; take celery, endive, and lettuce, only the white parts, cut them in pieces, not too finall, and boil them till they are verv tender, ftrain your foup off into a clean (lew- pan ; put your herbs in, with a good piece of butter ftirred in it till the butter is melted, and let it boil for. fome time, till it is very fmooth. If any feum arifes, take it off very clean : foak a fmall French roll, nicely rafped, in fome of the foup ; put it in the middle of the dilh, pour in your foup, and fend it to table. To make Onion Soup. Firft, put a tea-kettle of water on to boil, then flice fix Spanifh onions, or fome of the largeft onions you have got; flour them pretty well, then put them into a ftew-pan that will hold about three quarts, fry them in butter till they are of a fine brown, but not burnt; poui- in boiling water fufficient to fill the foup diffi you intend ; let it boil, and take half a pound of butter rolled in flour, break it in, and keep it ffirring till your butter is melted : as it boils, Ikim it very well, and put in a little pepper and fait; cut a French roll into flices, and fet it before the fire to crifp ; poach feven or eight eggs very nicely ; cut off all the ragged part of the whites, drain the water from them, and lay them upon every dice of roll; pour your foup into the difh, and put the bread and eggs , . carefullySOUPS /cr LENT. g$ carefully into the difh with a fldmtner. If you have any fpinach boiled, lay a leaf between ■every piece of roll, and fend it to table. If you have any Parmefan cheefe, fcrape about an ounce very fine, and put it in when you pour on your boiling water ; it gives it a very high flavour, and is not to be perceived by the tafte what it is. To make a Rice Soup. To two quarts of water, put three quarters of a pound of rice, clean picked and wafhed, with a flick of cinnamon ; let it be covered very clofe, and fimmer till your rice is tender; take out the cinnamon, and grate half a nut- meg ; beat up the yolks of four eggs, and ftrain them to half a pint of white wine, and as much pounded fugar as will make it palatable ; put this to your foup, 'and ftir it very well to- gether : fet it over the fire, ftirring it till it boils, and is of a good thicknefs then fend it to table. To make Turnip Soup. Pare a bunch of turnips (fave out three or four) put them into a gallon of water, with half an ounce of white pepper, an onion fluck with cloves, three blades of mace, half a nutmeg bruifed, a good bunch of fweet herbs, and a large cruft of bread. Boil them an hour and an half, then pafs them through a fieve; clean a bunch of celery, cut it finall, and put it into your turnips and liquor, with two96 SOUPS for LENT. two of the turnips you faved, and two young carrots cut in dice ; cover it dole, and let it flew ; then cut two turnips and carrots in dice, flour them, and fry them brown in butter, with two large onions cut thin, and fried like- wife ; put them all into your foup, with fome vermacelli; let it boil foftly, till your celery is tender, and your foup is good. Seafon it with fait to your palate. To moke Soup Meagre. Take a bunch of celery wafhed clean,' and cut in pieces, a large handful of fpinach, two cabbage lettuces, and fome parfley ; waflt all very clean, and Ihred them fmall; then take a large clean ftew-pan, put in about half a pound of butter, and when it is quite hot, flice four large onions very thin, and put into your butter; flir them well together for two or three minutes; then put in the reft of your herbs j lhake all well together for near twenty minutes; duft in fome flour, and ftir them together; pour in two quarts of boiling water; featon with pepper, fait, and beaten mace: Chip a handful of cruft of bread, and put in ; boil it half an hour, then beat up the yolks of three eggs in a fpoonful of vinegar ; pour it in, ftir it for two or three minutes, and then fend it to table. C II A P.( 97 ) CHAP. IX. Of FRICASSEES. To fricaffee Neats Tongues. BOIL them tender, peel them, cut them into thin flices, and fry them in frefh butter; then pour out the butter ; put in as much gravy as will be wanted for fauce, a bun- dle of fweet herbs, an onion, fome pepper and fait, and a blade or two of mace; fi miner all together for half an hour. Then take out the tongue, ftrain the gravy, put it with the tongue in the ftew-pan again, beat up the yolks of two eggs, with a glafs of white wine, a little grated nutmeg, a piece of butter as big as a walnut rolled in flour; fliake all together for four or five minutes, difh it up, and fend it to table. $ To fricaffee Ox Palates. Put the palates upon the fire in cold water, and let them boil foftly till they are very ten- der ; then blanch and lcrape them clean. Rub them all over with mace, nutmegs, cloves, pepper beaten fine, mixed with crumbs of bread. Put them into a ftew-pan of hot butter, and fry them brown on both fides. Then, having poured off the fat, put as much beef or mutton gravy into a ftew-pan as if required for fauce, and an anchovy, a little lemon juice, and fait to make it palat- F , able98 Of F R I C A S E E S. able, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. When tliefe have fimmered together a quarter o; an hour, d:lh them up, and garnilh with fliced lemon. To fricofee Tripe. Take the whiteft and the thickeft Team tripe; cut the white part in thin flices, and put it into a flew-pan, with a little white gravy, a fpoon- ful of white wine, a little lemon-juice, and lemon-peel grated. Add to it the yolks of two or three eggs beat very well, with a little thick cream, Hired parfley, and two or three chives. Let them all be fhook together over a ftove or llow fire, till the gravy becomes as thick as cream ; but it inuft not boil for fear it fhould curdle. Pour all together into a difh laid with flppets. Garnifh with fliced lemon and mufh- rooms. To fricafee a Calfs Head. Take half a calf’s head that is boiled tender, cut it into flices, and put it into a llew-pan with fome good veal broth ; feafon it with mace, pepper and fait, an artichoke bottom cut in dice, fome force-meat balls fir ft boiled, mo- rels and truffles ; let thefe boil together for a quarter of an hour; feum it clean; beat up j the yolks of two eggs in a gill of cream, puttjj this in, and fhake it round till it is ready to j boil; fqueeze in a little lemon, and ferve it up. j Garnifh with lemon.Of F R I c A S S E E S. 99 To fricajpe Calf 5 Feet. Drefs the calf’s feet, boil them as you would do for eating, take out the long bones, cut them in two, and put them into a {tew-pan, with a little white gravy, and a fpoonful or two of white wine, take the yolks of two or three eggs, two or three fpoonfuls of cream, grate in"a little nutmeg and fait, and (hake all together with a lump of butter. Garnifh your diih with flices of’ lemon and currants, and ferve it up. To fricajfee Veal Sweetbreads. Cut the fweetbreads in thin dices, the length- way. Dip them in eggs. Seafon them with pepper, fait, and grated nutmeg. Fry them of light brown : then put them into a itew-pan, with a fufficient quantity of brown gravy, and a fpoonful of lemon-juice. Thicken it with butter and flour, ferve it up together, garniflled with bits of toafted bacon and crifp parlley. To fricaffcc Lamb brown. Cut a hind quarter of lamb into thin flices ; ■ feafon them with pepper and fait, a little nut- 1 meg, favory, marjoram, and lemon-thyme dried and powdered, (fome add a fhallot:) then fry it on the fire brifkly; and afterwards tofs the lamb m up in ftrong gravy, a glafs of red wine, a few oyfters, fome force-meat balls, two palates, a little burnt butter, and an egg or two, or a bit of butter rolled in flour to thicken it. Serve all up in one difh, garnifhed with fliccd lemon. F 2 To100 Of F R I C A s S E E S. To fricajfee Lamb white. Take a leg of lamb, half roafl it; when it js cold cut it in flices, put it into a flew pan with a little white gravy, a fhallot fhred fine, a little nutmeg, fait, and a few fhred capers,, let it boil over a {love till the lamb is enough to thicken the fauce, take three fpoonfu's of: cream, the yolks of two eggs, a little fhred parfley, and beat them well together ; then put it into a flew-pan, and fhake it till it is thick, but do not let it boil; if this do not make it thick, put in a little flour and butter, and fo ferve it up. Garnifh your difh with mufh- rooms, oyflers, and lemon. \J To fricajfee Lamb-ftones and Sweetbreads. Have ready fome lamb-flones blanched, par- boiled, and diced, and flour two or three fweet-: breads; if very thick, cut them in two ; th< yolks of fix hard eggs whole ; a few piftachio nut-kernels, and a few large oyflers ; fry al thofe of a fine brown, then pour away tho butter, and add a pint of drawn gravy, th j Jamb-flones, fome afparagus tops of about ai inch Jong, fome grated nutmeg, a little peppe and fait, two fhallots fhred fmall, and a glaf of white wine. Stew all thefe together for tei minutes, then add the yolks of fix eggs bea very fine, with a little white wine, and a littl mace ; ftir all together till it is of a fine thick j nefs, and then difh it up. Garnifh with lemon 7Of F R I c A S S E E S. ioi F 3 the To fricajfee Pigs Ears. Take three or four pigs ears, clean and boil them very tender, cut them in final] pieces the length of your finger, and fry them with but- ter till they be brown ; ■ put them into a 11 ew- pan with a little brown grSvy, a lump of but- ter, a fpoonful of vinegar, and a little muftard and fait, thickened with flour. Take two or three pigs feet, and boil them very tender, fit for eating, then cut them in two, and take out the large bones ; dip them in eggs, and drew over them a few bread crumbs : feafon them with pepper and fait. Then either fry or broil them, and lay them in the middle of the diflt with the pigs ears. To fricaffee Pigs Pettitoes. Clean the pettitoes very well from hair, &c. fplit them in two down the middle ; boil them with the liver, lights, and heart, till they are very lender, in half a pint of water or more, ac- cording to the quantity of the meat, with an onion, a bunch of fweet herbs, a little whole pepper, and a blade of mace. But in five mi- nutes ta~e out the liver, lights, and heart, mince them very fmall, grate a little nutmeg over them, and drudge them with flour gently. When the pettitoes or feet are quite tender, take them out, drain the liquor in which they were boiled, and then put all together into a fauce- pan, with a little fait, a bit of butter as big as a yvalnut, and either a fpoonful of vinegar or the juice of half a fmall lemon. Shake1C2 Of FRICASSEES. To the faucc-pan often ; and after it has fimmered hve or fix minutes, and you have laid fome toafled fippets or ices of bread round the in- fide of the dilh, lay the minced meat and fauce m the middle, and the fplit pettitoes round it. Garnifh with fiiced lemon. To fricaffce a Hare. Boil the hare with apples, onions, and parf- ley ; when it is tender, Hired it fmail, then put thereto a pint of red wine, one nutmeg, a lit- tle pepper and fair, and two or three anchovies ; Itir thefe together, with the yolks of twelve hard eggs Hired fmail ; wher) it is ferved up, put in as much melted butter as will make it rnoift ; garnifh the difh with fome of the bones, and the whites of eggs boiled hard, and cut in halves. To fricaffee Rabbits white. Half roaft two young rabbits; then fkin and cut them to pieces, ufmg only the whit cli- parts ; which you mud put into a new pan, with a fufficient quantity of white gravy, a fmail anchovy, a little onion, Hired mace, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg grated; let it have one boil. Then take a little cream, the yolks of two eggs, a lump of butter, a little iuiee of lemon, and Hired patfiey; put them all together into a fiew-pan, and lhakc them over the fire, till they become as white as cream; but do not let the mixture boil, for it will cur- dle if it does. Garnifii the drill with lliccd le- mon and pickles.Of F R I C A S E E S. icj To fricaffee Rabbits brown. Cut the legs in three pieces, and the other parts about the fame fize. Beat them thin, and fry them in butter over a quick fire : when fried, put them into a ftew-pan with a little gravy, a fpoonful of catchup, and a little grat- ed nutmeg. Shake it up with a little flour and butter, and garmlh the dilh with fr.ed parfiey, made very crifp. To fricaffee Chickens white. Half roaft the chickens, then having cut them up as for eating, Ikin them, and put them into a ftew-pan with a little white gravy, the juice of a lemon, an anchovy for every chicken, with a fufficient quantity of mace and nutmeg grated, and then boil them. Take alfo the yolks of eggs, as much as neceflary, a little Tweet cream and fhred parfiey ; then put them into a ftew-pan with a lump of butter and a little fait. Shake them all the time they are over the fire, but do not let them boil, for that would make them curdle Serve it up. poured upon.fippets, and garmlh the dilh with lliccd lemon, or pickled muthrooms. To fricaffee Chickens brown. Cut up the chickens raw, in the manner as you do for eating, and flat the pieces a little with a rolling-pin. Fry them of a light brown; afterwards put them into a ftew-pan, with a fufficient quantity, but not too much gravy, a Ipoontul or two of white wine, to E 4 two104 .Of FRICASSEES. To two or three chickens, and a little nutmeg and fait. Thicken it up with flour and butter. Garnifli with fippets within the difh, and with crilp parlley on the rim. To fricajjee Pigeons. Quarter each pigeon, and fry them. Take fome green peafe, and fry them alfo till they be like to burft. Then pour boiling water upon them, and feafon the liquor with pepper, fait, onions, garlic, parfley, and vinegar. Thicken with yolks of eggs. To fricajjee Cod. Take the zounds, blanch them, then make them very clean, 'and cut them into little pieces. If they are dried zounds, you mull firft boil them render. Get fome of the roes, blanch them and wafh them clean, cut them into round pieces about an inch thick, with fome of the livers, an equal quantity of each, to m <ke a handfome difh, and a piece of cod of about a pound for the middle. Put them into a flew pan, feafon them with a little beaten inace, grated nutmeg and fait, a few fweet herbs, an onion, and a quarter of a pint of fifli broth or boiling water ; cover them- clofe, and let them flew a few minutes ; then put in half a pint of red wine, a few oyfters with the liquor ft rained, a piece of butter rolled in flour; fhake the pan round, and let them flew foftly till they are enough.' Take out the fweet herbs and onion, .and difh up. Garnifli with lemon.Of F R I c A s S E E S. ios F 5 in To fricajfee Soals, Plaife, or Flounders. Strip off the black Ikin of the fifh, but not the white ; then take out the bones, and cut the flefh into dices about two inches long ; dip the dices in the yolks of eggs, and drew over them rafpings of bread; then fry them in clarified butter, and when they are enough, put them on a plate, and fet them by the fire till you have made the following fauce : Take the bones of the fifh, boil them up with water, put in fome anchovy and fweet herbs, fuch as thyme and pardey, and add a little pepper, with cloves and mace. .When thefe have boiled together fome time, take the butter in which the fifh was fried, put' it into a pan over the fire, diake dour into it, and keep it dirring while the dour is fhaking in ; then drain the liquor into it, in which the fidi- bones, herbs, and fpice were boiled, and boil it together till it is very thick, adding lemon juice to your tade. Put your fifh into a difh, and pour the fauce over it; ferve it up, garnilhed with dices of lemon, and fried pardey. N. B. This difh may take place on any part of the table, either in the firil or lecond courfe. To Fricafjce Tench white. Having cleaned your tench very well, cut off their heads, dit them in two, and if large, cut each half in three pieces ; if fmail, in two : melt fome butter in a dew-pan, and put in your tench; dud in fome dour, pourio6 Of FRICASSEES. in fome boiling water, and a few mufhrooms, and feafon it with fait, pepper, a bundle of fweet herbs, and an onion lluck with cloves : when this boils, pour in a pint of white wine boiling hot, let it (lew till fufficiently walled ; take out the filh, and {train the liquor, faving the mulhrooms ; bind your fricaffee with the yolks of three or four eggs beat up with a little verjuice, fome parflev chopped fine, and a lit- tle nutmeg grated ; ftir it all the time it boils, icum it very clean, pour your fauce over the iifh, and fend it to table. r, To f icafee Tench brown. Prepare your t.nch as in the other receipt; put fome butter and flour into a flew-pan, and brown it ; then put in the tench with the lame feafoning you did for your white fricaffee ; when yon have tolled them up, moiiien them with a little filh broth ; boil a pint of white wine, , and put to your fricaffee, {lew it till enough, and properly waited ; then take the fifli up, flrain the liquor, bind it with a brown cullis, and ferve it up If afparagus or artichoaks are in feafon, you may boil ihefe, and add them to your fricaffee. To fneaffee Eggs white. Boil eight or ten eggs ; take off the ihells, cut fome in halves, ^nd fome in quarters ; have ready half a pint of cream, a good piece of butter,J a little nutmeg, a glafs of white wine, and a fpoonfui of chopped parfley ; llirOf F R I C A S S E E S. F 6 three ftir all together over a clear fire till it is tluck aJtaooS,, lay your eggs .u the *(h pour the fat.ee over. Garmft wuh ha.d eggs cut ill halves, oranges quartered, and fjppets i fend it hoi to table. To fricajjee Eggs Brown. Boil as many eggs hard as you wantt to ^ your dlfh i take off the (hells, and fry them m butter, of a fine brown .pour ^“"t- the pan, put in fome hour, at J, . ter, ftir it till it is th ck, and or a goodHirown, pour in fome boiling water, a gh o y a little pepper, fait, and beaten mace; boh all together, till it is of a good threknefs • feum it, and fqueeze in a little orange, cu of your eggs in half, lay the hat fiae upper - moft, and the whole ones between ; pour fauce over. Garnifh with fried parhey, and a Seville orange, cut in fmall quarters. To fricajfte Artichoke Bottoms. Take them either dried or pickled ; if dried, you muft lay them in warm water for three or four hours, drifting the water two or three times; then have ready a little cream and a piece of frefh butter, ftir it together one way over the fire till it is melted, then put m the artichokes, and when they are hot ditlr them up. Tofrtcajfee Mu for corns. Take a quart of frefh mufhrcoms, . make them clean, put them into a fauce-pan, withio8 Of RAGOUTS. three fpoonfuls of water, three of milk, and a vciy little fait; fct them on a quick fire, and let them boil up three times ; then take them oft, grate in a little nutmeg, put in a little eaten mace, half a pint of thick cream, a piece of butter rolled well in flour, put it all toge- ther into a fauce-pan fliaking it well all the time. When the liquor is fine and thick, dilh tiiem up ; be careful they do not curdle. You may ftir the fauce pan carefully with a fpoon all the time. 4 CHAP. X. Of RAGOUTS. To ragoo a Piece of Beef called Beef A-la-mode. TAKE a buttock of beef, interlarded with great lard, rolled up with chopped fpice, fage, parlley, thyme, and green onions; bind it dofe with c arfe tape, and put it into a great fauce-pan. When it is half done, turn it; Jet it ftand over the fire on a ftove twelve hours. It is fit to eat cold or hot. When it is cold, Uice it out thin, and tofs it up in a fine ragout of fweetbreads, oyilers, mulhrooms, anJ pa- lates. To ragoo a Brtajl of Veal. Put a breaft of veal, with an onion, a bun- dle of fwcet herbs, a little black pepper and grated nutmeg, a blade or two of mace, and a veryOf RAGOUTS. 109 a very little lemon-peel grated into a large ftew- pan, 'and juft cover it with water; when it grows tender, take it up and bone it. . Put the bones into the liquor, and boil them till they make good gravy. T. hen ftrain it oft. Add to this liquor a quarter of a pint of rich beef gravy, half an ounce of truffles and mo- rels, a fpoonful of catchup, and two fpoonfuls of white wine. While thefe are boiling toge- ther, flour the veal, and fry it in butter till it comes to be of a fine brown. Then drain off the butter, and pour the gravy to the veal, with a few mufti rooms. Boil all together till the liquor becomes rich and thick, cut the fweetbread into four, and fpread the pieces and forced-meat balls over the difti, having firft laid the veal in the difh, and poured the fauce all over it. Garnifh with lliced lemon. To ragoo a Neck of Veal* Cut it into fteaks, flatten them with a roll- ing-pin, lard them with bacon, and feafon them with a mixture of fait, pepper, grated nutmeg, mace, lemon peel and thyme. Then dip each fteak feparately in the yolks of eggs. Put all together in a ftew-pan, over a flow fire, and keep bailing and turning the fteaks in order to keep in the gravy. When they are done fuf- ficiently, dilh them with half a pint of ftrong gravy ieafoned high, adding mulhrooms, pic- kles, and forced-meat balls dipped in the yolks of eggs. Garnilh with Hewed and fried oyf- ters. IfOf RAGOUTS. IIO If you intend a brown ragout, put in a glafs of red wine; if a white ragout, put in white wine, with the yolks of eggs beaten up with two or three fpoonfuls of cream. To rogoo Veal Sweetbreads. Cut fweetbreads into pieces as big as a wal- nut ; walh and dry them, put them into a flew-pan of hot burnt butter. Stir them till they are brown, and then pour over them as much gravy, mufhrooms, pepper, fait, and all-fpice as will cover them ; then let them ltew half an hour. Pour off the liquor; pal's it through a fieve, and thicken tc for lauce. Place the veal fweetbreads in the difh, poor the fauce over them, and ierve them up, gar- nilh with fliced lemon, or orange. To ragoo a Leg of Mutton. Take off the fat and fkin, and cut the flefh very thin, the right way of the grain. Putter the flew-pan, dull it with flour, and put in the meat, with half a lemon and half an onion cut very fmall, a blade of mace, and a little bundle of fweet herbs. Stir it a minute or two. 7 hen put in a quarter of a pint of gra- vy, and an anchovy minced fmall, mixed with butter and flour. Stir it again for fix minutes, and then difli it up. To rogoo Hog’s Feet and Ears. If thev are raw or foufed, boil the feet and ears t.ll they are tender, after which cut them into thin bits about two inches long, and a quarterOf RAGOUTS. Ill quarter of an inch thick. Put them into a Rew-pan, with half a pint of good gravy, a dais of white wine, a good piece of butter rolled in flour, a little pepper and fait, a good deal of muftard, and half an onion, otir all together till it becomes of a hne thicknefs, and then pour it into a difh, meat and gravj to gether. T■) make a rich Ragout. Having parboiled lamb-ftones and fweet- breads, and blanched fome cock’s-combs, cut them all in dices, and feafon them with a mix- ture of pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg. Then frv them a little in lard ; dram them, and tois them up in good gravy, with a bunch of fweet herbs, two ihallots, a few mufhrooms, truf- fles, and morels. Thicken it with burnt but- ter/ and add a glafs of red wine. Garniih the dilh with pickled mufhrooms, or fried cyders, and fliced lemon. A ragout for made Difoes, Take red wine, gravy, fweet herbs, and fpice, in which tofs up lamb donee, cocks- combs boiled, blanched, and fliced, with fliced fweetbreads, oyfters, mufhrooms, truffles, and morels; thicken thefe.with b-own butter, and ufe it occalionally when wanted to enrich a ra- gout of any fort. A Ragout of Snipes. Take two brace of fnipes, clean picked; put a piece of butter into a ftew-pan, and give your fnipes a browning, then cut them down112 Of R A G O U T S: down the back, and prefs them flat, but do not take out the tail ; put them into a ftew- pan with fome good gravy, a fmall glafs of red wine, a gill of fmall mufhrooms, a little beaten mace, -and fait: let them Hew five or fix minutes, then roil a piece of butter in flour. When it is the thicknefs of cream, ikim it clean, and dilh them up. Garnifh your dilh 'with toafted fippets, and orange cut in fmall quarters. i \ A Ragout of Eggs. Boil fix eggs hard ; then take large rnulh- rooms, peel and lcrape them clean, put them into a fauce-pan, with a little fair, cover them, and let them boil; put to them a gill of red wine,’a good piece of butter rolled in flour, feafoned with mace and nutmeg; let it boil till it is of a good thicknefs ; cut the white of your eggs round, fo that you do not break the yolks; lay fome toafted fippets in your dilh, with the yolks of eggs; then pour over your ragout; garnilh your dilh with the whites ; lay the flat fide uppermoft, and a Seville orange between. To ragoo Sturgeon. Cut fturgeon into collops, lard, and rub them over with an egg, duft on fome flour, and fry them of a hne brown in lard : as foon as they are done, put them into a Hew- pan with a pint of good gravy, fome fweet herbs fhred fine, fome ftices of lemon, veal fweetbreads cut in pieces, truffles, mulh- vooms.Of R A G O U T S. 113 rooms, and a glafs of white wine ; bind it with a good cullis, till it is of a proper thicknefs * then take off the fcum very clean; dilh it up, and garnilh it with barberries and lemon. To ragoo Oyjiers. Open four dozen of the largeft Melton oyf- ters, and fave the liquor; make a thick batter with cream, the yolks of eggs, nutmeg grated, and patfley chopped fine : dip the oyiters into the batter, and then roll them in bread crumbs and fry them of a fine brown ; when they are fried, take them up, and lay them on a drainer before the fire ; empty your pan, and dull fome flour all over it, then put in about two ounces of butter: when it is melted and thick, ftrain in your oyfter liquor, and ftir it well together ; put in two ounces of Piftachio nuts Ihelled, and let them boil; then put in half a pint of white wine, beat up the yolks of two eggs in four fpoonfuls of cream, and ftir all together till it is of a proper thicknefs ; lay the oyfters in the dilh, and pour the ragout over. Gar- nilh the dilh with a Seville orange cut in fmall quarters CHAP,( U4 ) CHAP. IX. Of P A S T R Y. To make Paflry for Tarts. rj' A K E two pounds and a half of butter, to three pounds of flour, and ha'f a pound of fine fugar beaten ; rub ali your butter in the flour, and make it info a paftc with cold milk, and two fpoonfuls of brandy Tuff" Pafle. Take a quartern of flour, and a pound and a halt of butter; rub a third part of the butter in the flour, and make a pafle with water ; then roll out your pafle, and put your hutter upon it in "bits, and flour it; then fold it up, and roll it again ; after this, put in more butter, flour it, and fold it up again ; then put the reft of the butter in, flour it, fold it, and roll it twice before you ufe it. Pafle for raijed Pies. To half a peck of flour, take two pounds of butter, and put it in pieces in a l'auce pan of water over the fire, and when the butter is melted, make a hole in the flour, fkim off the butter, and put it in the flour, with fome of the water; then make it up in a (lift pafle, and if you do not ufe it prefently, put it be- fore the fire in a cloth. PafeOf PASTRY. H5 Pajie for Venifon Pajlies. ( Take four pounds of butter to half a peck of flour; rub it all in your flour, but not too fmali; then make it into a pafte, ai!<^ beat ^ with a rolling-pin for ait hour before you ufe it; if you pleafe, you may beat three or four eggs, and put them into your pafte, when you mix it. Pafte Royal for Patty-pans. Lay down a pound of flour, work it up with half a pound of butter, two ounces of line l'ugar, and four eggs. Pajie for Cuftards. Lay down flour, and make it into a ftifF pafte with boiling water ; fprinkle it with a little cold water, to keep it from cracking. ' . / To tanks a Hare Pie. Cut the hare in pieces, break the bones, and lay them in the pie ; lay on balls, iliced lemon, and butter, and clofe it with the yolks of hard eggs. din Umblc Pie. T ake the umbles of a buck, boil them, and chop them as fmali as meat for minced pies ; put to them as much beef fuet, eight apples, half a pound of fugar, a pound and a half of currants, a little fait, fome mace, cloves, nut- meg, and a little pepper; then mix them to- gether, and put it into a pafte ; add half a pint •ot lack, the juice of one lemon and orange, clofe the pie, and when it is baked ferve it up. • AOf PASTRY. n6 A Lumber Pie. Take a pound and a half of fillet of veal, mince it with the fame quantity of beef fuet, feafon it with fweet fpice, five pippins, a hand- ful of fpinach, a hard lettuce, thyme, and parfley : mix with it a penny loaf grated, and the yolks of two or three eggs, fack and orange- flower water, a pound and a half of currants and preferves, with a caudle. A Shrewfbury Pic. Take a couple of rabbits, cut them in pieces, feafon them well with pepper and fait j then take fome fat pork, feafoned in like manner, with the rabbits livers parboiled, fome butter, eggs, pepper and fait, a little fweet marjoiam, and a little nutmeg ; make balls, and lay in your pie among the meat j then take artichoke bottoms boiled tender, cut in dice, and lay thefe likewife among the meat; clofe your pie, and put in it as much white wine as you think proper. Bake it and ferve it up. A Lamb Pie. Seafon the lamb {leaks ; lay them in the pie with fliced Iamb-Hones and fweetbreads, favoury balls, and oyfters. Lay on butler, and clofc the pie with a lear. A Lamb Pic with Currants. Take a leg and a loin of lamb, cut the fleflt into fmall pieces, and feafon it with a little fait, cloves, mace, and nutmeg; then layOf P A S T R Y. Ii; lay the lamb in your patte, with as many cur- rants as you think proper, and fome Lifbon fugar : a few raifins ftoned and chopped fmall ; and fome forced-meat balls, yolks of hard eggs, with artichoke bottoms, or potatoes that have been boiled and cut in dice, with candid orange and lemon-peel in flices; put butter on the top, and a little water ; then clofe your pie* bake it gently ; when it is baked take off the top, and put in your caudle made of gravy from the bones, fome white wine and juice of lemon ; thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, and a bit of butter. When you pour in your caudle, let it be hot, and fhake it well in the pie; then ferve it, having laid on the cover. Note. If you obferve too much fat fwim- ming on the liquor of your pie, take if off be- fore you pour in your caudle. A Mutton Pie. Seafon the mutton fte-ks, fill the pie, lay on butter, and clofe it. When it is baked, tofs up a handful of chopped capers, cucumbers, and oyfters in gravy, with an anchovy and drawn butter. A Veal Pie. Raife a high round pie, then cut a fillet of veal into three or four fillets, feafon it with favoury feafoning, and a little minced fage and fweet herbs ; lay it in the pie with flices of bacon at the bottom, and between each piece lay on butter, and clofe the pie. When118 Of PASTRY. When it is baked, and half cold, fill it up with clarified butter. A Hen Pie. Cut it in pieces, and lay it in the pie ; lay on balls, fixed lemon, butter, and clofe it with the yolks of hard eggs; iet the lear be thick- ened with eggs. A Chicken Pic. Take fix fmall chickens; roll a piece of but- ter in fweet herbs; feafon and lay them into a cover, with the marrow of two bones rolled up in the batter of eggs, a dozen of yolks of eggs boiled hard, and two dozen of favoury balls; when you fcrve it up, pour in a quart of good gravy. A fweet Chicken Pie. Break the bones of four chickens, then cut them into fro all pieces, feafon them highly with mace, cinnamon, and fait; have four yolks of eggs boiled hard and quartered, and five artichoke bottoms, eight ounces of railins of the fun ftoned, eight ounces, of preferred citron, lemon, and eringo roots, of each alike ; eight ounces of marrow; four llices of rinded lemon, eight ounces of currants, fifty balls of forced meat, made as for humble pie ; put in all, one with the other, but firfi: butter the bottom of the pie, and put in a pound of frelh butter on the top lid, and bake it ; then put in a pint of white wine mixed with a little fack, and if you will, the juice of two oranges, fweeteningOf P A S T R Y. 119 A fweetening to your tafte. Make it boil, and thicken it with the yolks of two eggs ; put it to the pie when both are very hot, and ferve it up. A Turkey Pie. Bone the turkey, feafon it with favoury fpice, and lay it in the pie, with two young fowls cut to pieces, to fill up the corners. A goofe pie is made the fame way, with two rabbits* to fill it up as aforefaid. A Pigeon Pie. Trufs and feafon the pigeons with favoury fpices, and fluff them with forced-meat; lay on lamb-ftones, fweetbreads, and butter ; clofe the pie with a lear A chicken or capon pie may be made the fame way. A Battalia Pie. Take four fmall chickens, fquab pigeons, and four fucking rabbits, cut them in pieces, and feafon them with favoury fpice ; lay them in the pie with four fweetbreads fliced, as many fheeps tongues and fhivered palates, two pair of lamb-flones, twenty or thirty cocks-combs, with favoury balls and oyflers * lay on butter, and clofe the pie with a lear. A Lamb-ft one and Sweetbread Pie. Boil, blanch, and flice them, and feafon them with favoury feafoning ; lay them in the pie with fliced artichoke bottoms j put on butter, and clofe the pie with a lear.120 Of P A S T R Y. A Neat’s Tongue Pie. Half boil the tongues, blanch them and flice them, feafon them with favoury feafoning.fticed lemon, balls, and butter j then clofe the pie. When it is baked, take gravy and veal fweet- breads, ox-palates, and cocks-combs tofled up, and pour them into the pie. A Calf’s Head Pie. Almoft boil the calf’s head, take out the bones, cut it in thin flices, feafon and mix it with fliced fhivered palates, cocks-combs, oyf- ters, mufhrooms, and balls. Lay on butter, and clofe the pie with a lear. A Venifon Pafly. Raife a high round pie, fhred a. pound of beef fuet, and put it into the bottom ; cut your venifon in pieces, and feafon it with pep- per and fait. Lay it on the fuet, lay on butter, clofe the pie, and bake it. An Egg Pie. Shred the yolks of twenty hard eggs, with the fame quantity of marrow and beef-fuet; feafon it with fweet fpice, citron, orange, and lemon; fill and clofe the pie. I Minced Pie. Shred a pound of neat’s tongue parboiled, with two pounds of beef fuet, five pippins, and a green lemon-peel; feafon it with an ounce of fpice, a little fait, a pound of fugar, two pounds of currants, half a pint of iack, a little brandy, the juice of a lemon, a quar-Of PIES. 121 ter of a pound of citron, lemon and orange- peel. Mix thefe together, and fill the pies. A Carp Pie. To a quartern of flour put two pounds of butter, rubbing a third part in ; make it into pafte with water; then roil in the reft of the butter at three times ; lay your pafte in the di(h, put in fome bits of butter on the bottom pafte, with pepper and fait; fcale and gut your carps; put them in vinegar, water, and fait ; then wafti them out of the vinegar and water, wipe them dry, and make the following pud- ding for the belly of the carp : take the flefh of an eel, cut it fmall, add fome grated bread, two buttered 'eggs, an anchovy cut fmall, a little nutmeg grated, with pepper and fait. Mix thele together well, and fill the belly of the carp ; then make fome force-meat balls of the fame mixture ; cut off the tail and fins of the carp, and lay in the cruft, with flices of fat bacon, a little mace, and fome bits of but- ter ; clofe your pie, and before you let it in the oven, pour in half a pint of claret. Serve it up hot. Oy/icr Pie. Parboil a quart of large oyfters in their own liquor, mince them fmall, and pound them in a mortar, with Piftachio-nuts, marrow and fvvect herbs, an onion, favoury feeds, and a little grated bread ; or feafon as aforefaid whole. Lay on butter, clOfe it, and ferve it up hot. G Flour.dcr122 Of PIES. Flounder Pie. Take twelve large flounders, cut off their tails, fins, and heads ; then feafon them with pepper and fait, cloves, mace, and nutmeg beaten fine. Take two or three eels well clean- ed, cut in lengths of three inches, and feafon as before ; then lay your flounders and eels in your pie, and the yolks of eight hard eggs, half a pint of pickled mufhrooms, an anchovy, a little onion, a bunch of fweet-herbs, and fome lemon-peel grated. You rnuft put three quarters of a pound of butter on the top, with a quarter of a pint of water, and a gill of white wine ; then clofe your pie, and ferve it hot, firfl: taking out the onion and bunch of iweet herbs. Trout Pie. Clean, wafh, and fcale them, lard them with pieces of a filver eel rolled up in fpice. and fweet herbs, with bay leaves powdered ; lay on and befween them the bottoms of fliced artichokes, mufhrooms, o)flers, capers, and fliced lemon j lay on butter, and clofe the pie. Eel Pie. Cut, wkfh, and feafon them with fweet fea- foning, and a handful of currants ; butter and clofe it. Some omit the currants. Lon.frey Pie. Clean, wafh, and feafon them with fweet feafoning ; lay them in a coffin with citron and lemon fliced ; butter and clofe the pie. Artichoke ( i c c c F c D t; P: p' fc 111 t!i ft ft in, tri it, 1* $ tin %Of PIES. 123 Artichoke or Potatoe Pies. Take artichoke bottoms, feafon them with a little mace and cinnamon fliced, eight ounces of candied lemon and citron Hiced, eringo- roots, and prunellas, a flit of each, two ounces of barberries, eight ounces of marrow, eight ounces of raifins of the fun ftoned, and two ounces of fugar ; butter the bottom of the pie, put thefe in mixed together, adding eight ounces of butter on the top lid ; bake it, and then put on a lear, made as for the chicken pie. To make an Apple or a Pear Pic. Make a good puff pafle cruft, Jay forne round the fides of the difh, pare and quarter your ap- ples, and take out the cores ; lay a row of ap- ples thick, throw in half the fugar you intend for your pie; mince a little lemon-peel fine, throw a few cloves, here and there one, then the reft of your apples, and the reft of your fugar. You muft fweeten to your pa'ate, and fqueeze in a little lemon-juice. Boil the peel- ing of the apples and the cores in fair water, with a blade of mace, till it is very good ; ftrain it, and boil the fyrup with fugar till it is rich ; pour it into your pie, put on your upper cruft, and bake it. You may put in a little quince or marmalade, if you pleafe. } bus make a pear pic, but don’t put in any quince. You may butter them when they come: out of the oven, or beat up the yolks of two eggs, and half a pint of cream, with a little 2 nut-124 Of PIES, nutmeg, fweetened with fugar; take off the lid, and pour in the cream Cut the cruft in. little three cornered pieces, flick them about the pie, and fend it to table. To make a Cherry, Plumb, or Goofeberry Pie. Make a good cruft, lay a little round the fides of your difh, throw fugar at the bottom, and lay in your fruit, with fugar on the top. A few red currants do well with them ; put on your lid, and bake it in a flack oven. Make a plumb pie the fame way, and alfo a goofeberry pie. Jf you would have it red, let it (land a good while in the oven after the: bread is diawn. A cuftard is very good with: the goofeberry pie. To make Tarts of divers Kinds. If you propofe to make them in patty-pans, firft butter them well, and then put a thin cruft all over them, in order to your taking them out with'the greater eafe; but if you make ufe of either glafs or china difhes, add no cruft but the top one. Strew a proper quantity of fine fugar at the bottom ; and after that lay in youi fruit, of what fort foever, as you think moil proper, and ftrew a like quantity of the lamt fugar over them. Then put your lid on, anc let them be baked in a flack oven. If you make tarts of apples, pears, apricots, &c, the bcatei .cruft is looked upon as the moll proper ; bu that is fubmitted to your own particular fancy. i i { o o 0 ii kOf TARTS. X25 To make Apple Tart, or Pear Tart. Pare them farfl, then cut them into quarters, and take the cores out; in the next place, cut each quarter acrofs again ; throw them fo pre- pared into a fauce-pan, with no more water in it than will juft cover the fruit; let them fim'mer over a flow fire till they are perfectly tender. Before you fet your fruit on the fire, take care to put a good large piece of lemon- peel into the water. Have the patty-pans in readinefs, and ftrew fine fugar at the bottom ; then lay in the fruit, and cover them with as much of the fame fugar as you think conve- nient. Over each tart pour a tea fpoonful of lemon-juice, and three fpoonfuls of the liquor in which they were boiled. Then lay the lid over them, and put them into a Hack oven. If the tarts be made of apricots, (Ac. yon muft neither pare them, nor cut them, nor Hone them, nor ufe lemon juice, which is the only material difference between thefe atid other fruit. Obferve, with refpeft to preferred tarts, only lay in the preferved fruit, and put a very thin cruft over them, and bake them as fhort a time as pollible. Orange or Lemon-Tarts, Take fix large lemons, rub them very well with fait, and put them into water with a handful of fait in it, for two days ; then change them into frefh water every day (without fait; for a fortnight; after this boil G 1 them126 Of TARTS. them two or three hours till they are tender, cut them into half quarters, and then again three quarter-ways, as thin as you can. Take fix pippins pared, cored, and quartered, and% a pint of fair water, in which let them boil till the pippins break ; put the liquor to your orange or lemon, with half the pulp of the pippins well broken, and a pound of fugar. Roil thefe together a quarter of an hour, then put it in a gallipot, and fqueeze an orange in it ; if it be a lemon tart, fqueeze a lemon ; two fpoonfuls is enough for a tart. Your patty- pans mud be final! and (hallow. Ufe fine puff- pafie, and vetv thin. A little baking will do. Jutt as your tarts are going into the oven, with a feather or brufh do them over with melted butter, and then lift double refined fugar over them : This is a pretty icing. Icing for Tarts. Beat and fift a quarter of a pound of fine loaf fugar. Put it into a mortar with the white of one egg that has been well beat up. Add to thefe two fpoonfuls of rofe-water, and beat altogether till it be fo thick as juft to run, obferving to ftir it all one way. It is laid on the tart with a brufh or (mail bunch of feathers dipped in the icing. Set the tarts, when fo done, into a very gentle oven to harden. But take care not to let them (land too long, for that will ddcolour them. Jn127 Of TARTS. An Almon Tart, very good. To halt a pound of almonds blanched, and very finely beat with orange-flower water, put a pint of thick cream, two large Naples bif- cuits grated, and five yolks of eggs, with near half a pound of fugar; put all into a dilh gar- nifiled with pafte, and lay flips in diamonds crofs the top ; bake it in a cool oven \ and when drawn out, flick flips of candied citron in each diamond. Orange Puff's. Pare oft' the rinds from Seville oranges, then rub them with fait; let them lie twenty-four hours in water, then boil them in four changes of water, making the firft fait; drain them dry, and beat them fine to a pulp ; bruife irk the pieces of all that you have pared, make it very fweet with fine fugar, and boil it till it is thick ; let it (land till it is cold, and then it will be fit to put into the pafte. Lemon Puff's. Take-a pound and a quarter of double re- fined fugar beaten and fifted, and grate the rinds of two lemons, and mix well with the fugar ; then beat the whites of two new-laid eggs very well, and mix them well with the fugar and lemon-peel; beat them together an hour and a quarter, then make them up in what form you pleafe ; be quick to let them in a moderate oven j do not take off the papers till cold. G 4 CHAP.( 128 ) C H A P. XII. To make all Sorts of Cakes. A rich Cake. 'T'1 A K E fix pounds of the be ft freft) butter, 5 work it to a cream with your hands ; then throw in by degrees three pounds of double refined fugar, well beat and lifted : mix them well together, then work in three pounds of blanched almonds ; and having beaten four pounds of eggs, and ftrained them.through a fieve, put them in ; beat them ail together till they are thick and look white. Then 2dd half a pint of French brandy, half a pint of fack, a Email quantity of ginger, and about two ounces each of mace, cloves, and cinnamon, with three large nutmegs, all beaten in a mor- tar as fine as poffible. Then fhake in gradu- ally four pounds of well dried and lifted flour. When the oven is well prepared, and a tin hoop to bake it in, ftir into this mixture (as you put it into the hoop' fcven pounds of cur- rants wreil wafhed and rubbed, and fuch a quantity of candid orange, lemon, and citron, in equal proportion®, as fhail be thought con- venient. '1 he oven muft be quick, and the cake will at leaft take four hours to bake it: Or, you may make two or more cakes out of thefc ingredients. You muft beat it with your hands, and the currants muft be plumped by . pouring vOf CAKES T2g, pouring upon them boiling water, and drying them before the lire. Put them warm into the cake. To a quartern and a half of fine flour add! fix pounds of currants, an ounce of cloves- and mace, a little cinnamon, two grated nut- megs, a pound of the belt fugar, fome candied lemon, orange, and citron, cut in thin pieces y a pint of fvveet wine, a little orange-flower or rofe water, a pint of yeaft, a quart of cream,, two pounds of butter melted, and poured into- the middle of the flour. Then llrew fome flour over the butter, and" let it Hand half ant hour before the fire. After which knead it well together, and put it before the fire to- make it rife. Work it up very well ; put this mixture into a tin hoop, and bake it two hours, and a half in, a gentle overt. Take twelve eggs, three quarters of a pound, of the belt moift fugar, mill therii in a choco- late-mill, till they are all of a lather i then mix in one pound of flour, half a pound of pounded almonds, two ounces of candied orange peel, two ounces of citron,, four large: fpooniuls of orange or rofe water, half am ounce of cinnamon, and a glafs of lack. It is befl when baked in a flow oven. Portugal Cakes. Put a pound of- fine fugar, a pound of frefh: butter, five eggs, and a little mace, beaten,. Mother rich Cake. yk Spanijh Cake. into-130 Of CAKES. into a broad pan; beat it with your hands till it is very light, and looks curdling; then put thereto a pound of flour, and half a pound of currants very dry ; beat them together, fill tin pans, and bake them in a flack oven. You may make feed cakes the fame way, only put in carraway-feeds inftead of currants. Dutch Cakes. Take five pounds of flour, two ounces of carraway feeds, half a pound of fugar, and fomething more than a pint of milk, put into k three quarters of a pound of butter, then make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put in a full pint of good ale yeaft : pour in the butter and milk, and make thefe into a pafte, letting it fland a quarter of an hour be- fore the fire to rife ; then mould it, and roll it into cakes pretty thin ; prick them all over pretty much, or they will blifterj and bake them a quarter of an hour. Sbmvfbury Cakes; Take one pound of fugar, three pounds of the finefl flour, a nutmeg grated, and fome cinnamon well beaten ; the fugar and fpice rnuft be lifted into the flour, wet it with three eggs, and as much melted butter as will make it of a good thicknefs to roll into a pafte ; mould it well, and roll it; cut it into what lhape you pleafe ; pcrfume the cakes, and prick them be- fore they go into the oven. MarlboroughOf CAKES. J31 Marlborough Calcs, Take eight eggs, yolks and whites, beat and ftrain them, and put them to a pound of fugar, beaten and lifted ; beat thefe three quarters of an hour together, then put in three quarters of a pound of flour well dried, and two ounces of carraway feeds; beat all well together, and bake it in broad tin pans, in a brilk oven. Queen Cakes. Take a pound of fugar, beat it fine, pour irt yolks and whites of two eggs, half a pound of butter, a little rofe-water, fix fpoonfuls of warm cream, a pound of currants, and as much flour as will make it up ; ftir them well together, and put them into your patty-pans, being well buttered ; bake them in an oven, almoll as hot as for bread, for half an hour ; then take them out and glaze them, and let them Hand but a little after the glazing'is on, to rife. TJxhruhe Cakes. x L> . Take a pound of wheat flour, feven pounds, of currants, half a nutmeg, and four pounds of butter ; rub your butter cold very well a- mongft the meal. Drefs the currants very well in the flour, butter, and leafoning, and knead it -with fo much good and new yeaft as will make it into a pretty high palte : ufually two penny-worth of yealt jo that quantity. After it is kneaded well together, let it (land an hour to rife. You may put half a pound of palle in a cake. G 6 AOf CAKES. 132 A Pound Cake. Take a pound of butter, beat it in an earthen pan with your hand one way till it is like a fine thick cream ; then have ready twelve eggs, with half the whites; beat them well firft, and alfo beat them up with the butter, working into it a pound of flour, a pound of fugar, and a few carraways, for an hour with your hand, or a great wooden fpoon. Butter a pan, put it in, and then bake it an hour in a quick oven. A Seed Cake. Take three pounds of fine flour, and rub in two pounds of butter ; eight eggs, and four whites, a little cream, and five fpoonfuls of yeaft. Mix all together, and put it before the fire to rife; then add .three quarters of a pound of carraway-feeds, and put it in a hoop or tin rim well buttered. An hour and a half will bake it. Fine Almond Cakes. Take a pound of Jordan almonds, blanch them, beat them very fine with a little orange- flower water, to keep them from oiling ; then taka a pound and a quarter of fine fugain, boil it to a high candy, and put in your almonds. Then take two frefh lemons, grate off the rind very thin, and put as much juice as to make it of a quick tafte ; put this mixture into glalles, fet it in a hove, ftirring often, that it may not candy : fo when it is a little dry, part it into imall cakes upon Iheets of paper, or tin, to harden, Saffron*33 Of CAKES. Saffron Cakes. Take half a peck of the fineft flour, a pound of butter, and a pint of cream, or good milk; fet the milk on the fire, put in the butter, and: a good deal of lugar; then (train faffron to vour tafie and liking into the milk ; take (even or eight eggs, with two yolks, and (even 01 eight fpoonfuls of yeafl: ; put the milk to it when it is almoft cold, with fait and coriander feeds ^ knead them all together, make them up in rea- fonable flzed cakes, and bake them in a quick oven. Orange Cakes. Take the peels of four oranges, being firfl: pared, and the meat taken out; boil them ten- der, and beat them fmall in a marble mortar ; then take the pulp of them, and two more oranges, the feeds and lhins being picked out, and mix them with the peelings that are beaten, fet them on the (ire, with a lpoonful or two of orange-flower water, keeping it ftirring till that moifture is pretty well dried up ; then have ready to every pound of that pulp four pounds and a quarter of double refined fugar, finely lifted. Make the fugar very hot, dry it upon the fire, and then mix it and the pulp together ; fet it on the fire again, till the fugar be well melted, but take care it does not boil. You may put in a little peel, (hred fmall or grated ; and when it is cold, draw it up in double papers ; dry them before the fire, and when you turn them, put two together, or you may' / ^34 Of CAKE S. may keep them in deep glafles or pots, and dry them as you have occaiion. Common Bifcuits. Beat up fix eggs, with a fpoonful of rofe water and a lpoonful of fack ; then add a pound of fine powdered fugar, and a pound of flour; mix thefe into the eggs by degrees, with an ounce of coriander feeds ; fhape them on white thin paper or tin moulds, in any form you pleafe. Beat the white of an egg, and with a feather rub it over, and duft fine fugar over them. Set them in an oven moderately heated, till they rife and come to a good co- lour; and if you have no flove to dry them in, put them into the oven at night, and let them Band till morning. To make Tffh/gs. Take three pounds and a half of flour, and three quarters of a pound of butter ; rub it into the flour till none of it be feen ; then take a pint or more of new milk, make it very warm, and with a half pint of ale-yeaft, make it into a light pafte, put in carraway-feeds, and what fpice you pleafe; then jmake'it up, and lay it before the fire to rife ; after th s, work in three quarters of a pound of fugar, and then roll them pretty thin into what form you pleafe ; put them on tin plates, and hold them before the fire to rife again, before you fet them in ; your oven mu ft be pretty quick. ToOf CAKES. I3S To make Buns. Take two pounds of fine flour, a pint of ale-yeaflr, with a little facie, and three eggs beaten; knead all thefe together with a little warm milk, nutmeg, and fait. Lay it before the fire, till it rile very light. 1 hen knead into it a pound of frefh butter, and a pound of round carraway comfits, and bake them in a quick oven on floured papers in what fhape you pleafe. Maccaroons. Take a pound of almonds, let them be fealded, blanched, and thrown into cold water, then dry them in a cloth, and pound them in a mortar ; moiften them with orange-flower water, or the white of an egg, left they turn to an oil ; after this take an equal quantity of fine powdered fugar, with three or four whites of eggs ; beat all well together, and fhape them on wafer paper with a fpoon. Bake them on tin plates in a gentle oven. Good Fi ~i tiers. Mix half a pint of good cream very thick with flour, beat fix eggs, leaving out four whites ; add fix lpoonfuls of fack, and ftrain them into the cream ; put in a little grated nut- meg, ginger, cinnamon, and fait; then put in another half pint of cream, and beat the batter near an hour ; pare and flice your apples thin, dip every piece in the batter, and throw them into a pan with boiling lard. Pan13& Of CAKES* Pan Cakes. Take a p:nrt of thick cream, fix fpoonfuls cf fack, and half a pint of fine flour, fix eggs, (but only three whites) one grated nutmeg, a> quarter of a pound of melted butter, a very little fait, and fome fugar ; fry thefe thin in. a dry pan. Cheefecakes after the befl Manner. Firft warm a pint ef cream, and then add to it five quarts of milk that is warm from the cow ; and when you have put a fufficient quan- tity of rennet to it, llir it about till it comes to a curd; then put the curd into a cloth, or linen bag, and let the whey be well drained from it: but take care not to fqueeze it hard ; when it is fufficiently dry, throw it into a mor- tar, and beat it till it is as fine as butter. To the curd, thus prepared, add half a pound of fweet almonds blanched, and the fame quan- tity of macaroons, both beaten together as fine as powder. If you have none of the lafl: near at-hand, make ufe of Naples bifcuits in their Head ; then add to your ingredients the yolks of nine eggs that have been well beaten, a whole nutmeg, and half a pound of double refined fugar. When you have mingled all thefe well together, melt a pound and a quarter of the bell frelh butter, and ftir well into it. As to your puff-parte for your cheefe-cakes, it mull be made in the manner following : Wet a pound of fine flour with cold water,, and then roll it out; put in gradually at lealt twoOf CAKES. 737 two pounds of the heft frefh butter, and fhake a finall quantity of flour upon each coat as you roll it. Make it juft as you ufe it. N. B. Some will add to thefe, both currants and peifumed plumbs. Cheefecakes without Rennet. Take a quart of thick cream, and fet it over a clear fire, with fome quartered nutmeg in it; jull as it boils up, put in twelve eggs well beaten ; Air it a little while on the fire, till it begins to curdle, then take it oA', and gather the curd as for cheefe ; put it in a clean cloth, tie it together and hang it up, that the whey may run from it ; when it is pretty dry, put it in a Aone mortar, wilh a pound of butter, a quarter of a pint of thick cream, fome fack, orange-flower water, and half a pint of flue fugar ; then beat and grind all thefe together for an hour or more, till it is very Ane; pafs it through a hair fieve, and All your’patty-pans but half full; you may put currants in half the quantity, if you pleafe ; a little more than, a quarter of an hour will bake them. Take the nutmeg out of the cream when it is boiled. Pot&toe or Lemon Cheefecaies. Take fix ounces of potatoes, four ounces of lemon-peel, four ounces of fugar, and four ounces of butter; boil the lemon-peel ten- der, pare and fcrape the potatoes, boil them tender alfo, and bruife them ; beat the lemon peel with the fugar, then beat all to- getherx38 Of P U D D I N G S. gcthcr very well, and melt the butter in a little thick cream : mix all together very well, and let it lie till cold ; put cruft in your pattypans, and fill them little more than half full. Bake them in a quick oven half an hour ; lift fome d®uble refined fugar on them as they go into the oven ; this quantity will make a dozen fmall patty-pans. CHAP. XIII. Of P U D D I N G S, &c. To make a plain boiled Pudding. TAKE a pint of new milk, mix with it fix eggs well beaten, two fpoonfuls of flour, half a nutmeg grated, a little fait, and fugar. Put this mixture into a cloth or bag. Put it into boiling water ; and half an hour will boil it. Serve it up with melted butter, A Light Pudding. Take a pint of cream, or new milk from the cow; in which boil a little nutmeg, cin- namon, and mace in a fine linen rag. Take out the fpice, and beat up the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of four, with a glafs of mountain wine; to which add a little fait and fugar ; then mix them with the milk. Put in a halfpenny roll, a fpoonful of flour, and a little rofe-water; and having beat them well together, tie all up in a thick cloth, and boil itOf PUDDINGS. 139 it for an hour. Melt butter, fugar, and a little white wine for fauce, and pour it over the pud- ding, when dilhed. A Ahuiking Pudding. Take a penny white loaf grated, two fpoon- fuls of flour of rice, and feven eggs beaten up. Put them in a quart of cream or new milk. Seafon them with nutmeg grated, and white role-water. Tie it up, boil it an hour, and then ferve it up with plain melted butter, and with fugar and a little wine. A fine Bifcuit Pudding. Grate three Naples bifeuifs, and pour a pint of cream or milk over them hot. Cover it clofe till cold, then add a little grated nutmeg, the yolks of four eggs and two whites beaten, a little orange flower or rofe water, two ounces of powdered fugar, and half a fpoonful of flour. Mix thefe well, and boil them in a China bafoii, tied in a cloth, for an hour. Turn it out of the bafon, and ferve it up in a difh with melted butter, and fome fine fugar fprinkled over it. Boiled Plumb Pudding. Shred a pound of beef fuet very fine, to which add three quarters of a pound of raifins Homed, a little grated nutmeg, a large fpoon- ful of fugar, a little fait, fome white wine, four eggs beaten, three fpoonfuls of cream, and five fpoonfuls of flour. Mix them-well, and boil them in a cloth three hours. Pour over this pudding melted butter, when dilhed. \Tunbridge140 Of PUDDINGS. Tunbridge Puddings. Pick and dry a pint of great oatmeal ; bruife it, but not final!, in a mortar. BoiUit aquar- ter of an hour in new milk. Then cover it clofe, and let it (land till it be cold. To this, when cold, add eight eggs beaten and {trained, a penny loaf grated, and half a nutmeg, three fpoonfuls of Madeira or fack, a quarter of a pound or more of fugar. Mix thefe well to- gether. Tie it.up in a cloth, and boil it three hours. Serve it up with a good deal of butter poured over it. A Cujlard Pudding. T ake two fpoonfuls of fine flour, half a grated nutmeg, a little fait and fugar, fix eggs well beaten, and mix them all in a pint of cream or new milk. Boil it in a cloth half an hourj and ferve it up with plain melted butter. A Hunting Pudding. Mix a pound of beef fuet Aired fine with a pound of fine flour, three quarters of a pound of currants well cleaned, a quarter of a pound of ratlins ftoned and Aired, five eggs, a little grated lemon-peel, two fpoonfuls of fugar, and a little brandy. Mix them well together. '1 ie it up in a cloth; and boil it full two hours* Serve it up with white wineand melted butter. A boiled Suet Pudding. Take a quart of milk, a pound of fuet flired.4inall, four eggs, two fpoonfuls of grated ginger^Of P U D D I N G S. 141 ginger, or one of beaten pepper, and a tea fpoonful of fait. Mix the feafoning and fuet firlt in one pint of the milk, and make a thick batter with iiour. Then mix in the reit of the milk with the leafoning and fuet till it becomes a pretty thick batter. Boil it two hours. Serve it up with plain butter. A Steak Pudding. Make a rich pafle of a quartern of flour and two pounds of fuet ihred fine, mixed up with cold water, feafoned with a little fait, and made fiifF. The fteaks may be either beef or mut- ton, well feafoned with pepper and fait. Roll the palle out half an inch thick. Lay the ltcaks upon it, and roll them up in it. Then tie it in a cloth, and put it into boiling water. A fmall pudding will be done enough in three hours. A large one takes five hours boiling. N. B. Pigeons eat well this way. A boiled Potatoe Pudd'ng. Boil two pounds of potatoes, and beat them in a mortar fine ; beat in half a pound of melt- ed butter, and boii it half an hour. Pour melted butter over it, with a- glafs of white wine, or the juice of a Seville orange, and throw fugar all over the pudding and diih. A boiled Almond Pudding. ' Beat a pound of fweet almonds as fmall as poflible, with three fpoonfuls of rofe-water, and a gill of fack or white wine ; mix in half a pound ef frefh butter melted, with five142 Of P U D D I N G S. five yolks of eggs, and two whites, a quart of cream, a quarter of a pound of fugar, half a nutmeg grated, one fpoonful of flour, and three fpoonfuls of crumbs of white bread ; mix all well together, and boil it. It will take half an hour boiling. A boiled Rice Pudding. Take a quarter of a pound of rice, and half a pound of raifins fioned. Tie tlv m in a cloth, fo as to give the rice room to fwell. Boil it two hours, and ferve it up with melted butter, fugar, and grated nutmeg thrown over it. A Prune or Danifon Pudding. Take a quart of milk, beat fix eggs and half the whites, with half a pint of the milk and four fpoonfuls of flour, a little fait and two fpoonfuls of beaten ginger ; then by degrees mix in all the milk, and a pound of prunes. Tie it in a cloth, boil it an hour, melt butter and pour over it. Damfons eat well this way. An Apple Pudding. Make a good puff pafte, roll it out half an inch thick ; pare and core apples enough to fill • the cruft, and clofe it up. Tie it in a cloth, and boil it j (if a fmall pudding two hours ; if a large one, three or four hours.) When it is enough, turn it into a dilh ; cut a piece of cruft out of the top, butter and fugar it to the palate ; lay on the cruft again, and fend it to table hot. N. B. iOf P u D D I N G S. 143 iV. B. A pear pudding, and a datnfon pud- ding, or any fort of plumb, apricots, cherries, or mulberries, may be made the fame way. A plain baled Pudding. Boil a quart of milk; then ftir in flour till thick ; add half a pound of butter, fix ounces of fugar, a nutmeg grated, q little ialt, ten eggs, but not all the v. hites. Mix them well, put it into a dilh buttered, and it will be baked in three quarters of an hour. A Bread Pudding baked. Take a pint of cream, and a quarter of a pound of butter, fet it on the fire, and keep it ftirring ; when the butter is melted, put in as much grated flale bread as will make it pret- ty light, a nutmeg, a fufficient quantity of fugai\ three or four eggs, and a little fait. Mix all together, butter a difh, put it in, and bake it half an hour. A Alillet Pudding. Take half a pound of millet, and boil it over night in two quarts of milk. In the morning add fix ounces of fugar, fix of melted butter, feven eggs, half a nutmeg, a pint of cream, and fweeten to your tafle. Add ten eggs, with half the whites, and bake it. A Marrow Pudding. Boil a quart of cream, take it off the fire boiling, and flice into it a penny white loaf. Add to it eight ounces of blanched al- monds beaten fine, two fpoonfuls of white rofe-144 Of P U D D I N G S. rofe-water, the yolks of fix eggs, a glafs of fack, a little fait, fix ounces of candied lemon and citron Ihced'thin, a pound of beef marrow fhred fine, and half a pound of currants. Mix all together, and put it into a dilh rubbed with butter. Half an hour will bake it; when enough, dull: on lome fugar, and ferve it up hot. A Rice Pudding. Beat half a pound of rice to powder. Set it with three pints of new milk upon the fire, let it boil well, and when it grows almoftcold, put to it eight eggs well beaten, and half a pound of fuet orbutter, half a pound of fugar, and a fufficient quantity of cinnamon, nutmeg, and mace. Half an hour will bake it. You may add a few currants, candied le- mon, cition-peel, or other fweet-meats ; and lay a puff-pdfie firfi: all over the fides and rim of the difh. A Poor Man's Pudding. Take fom’e ftale bread : pour over it fome ho', water, till it is well foaked ; then prefs out the water, and wafh the bread ; add fome pow- dered ginger, nutmeg grated, and a little fait ; fome rofe-water or fack, Lrfbon fugar. and currants ; mix, them well together, and lay it in a pan well buttered on the fides ; when it is well flatted with a fpoon, lay fome pieces of butter on the top; bake it in a gentle oven, and ferve it hot. You may turn it outOf PUDDINGS. HS ©ut of the pan when it is cold, and it will cat like a fine cheefecaka. An Orange Pudding. Take the yolks of fix teen eggs, beat them well with half a pound of melted butter, grate in the rind of two Seville oranges, beat in half a pound of fine fugar, two fpoonfuls of orange- flower water, two of rofe water, a gill of fack, half a pint of cream, two Naples bifcuits, or the crumb of a half penny roll foaked in the cream, and mix all well together. Make a thin puff-pafte, and lay it all over the dilh and round the rim; pour in the pudding and bake it. It will take about as long baking a cuf- tard. A Carrot Pudding. You mu ft take a raw carrot, fcrspe it very clean, and grate it; take half a pound of the grated carrot, and a pound of grated bread ; beat up eight eggs, leave out half the whites, and mix the eggs with half a pint of cream : then ftir in the bread and carrot, half a pound of frefh butter melted, half a pint of fack, three fpoonfuls of orange-flowrer water, and a nutmeg grated. Sweeten to your palate. Mix all vvell together; and if it is not thin enough, ftir in a little new milk or cream. Let it be of a moderate thicknefs : lay a puff-pafte all over the difh, and pour in the ingredients. Bake it, which will take an hour. It may. alfo be boiled. If fo, ferve it un with melted but- ter, white-wine and fuear: H A fhiinecr*6 Of PUDDINGS. A Quince, Apricot ,or white Pear Plumb-Pudding. Scald your quinces very tender, pare them thin, ferape off the pulp, mix it with fugar very fweet, put in a little ginger and cinnamon. To a pint of cream you mult put three or four \olks of eggs, and ftir it into your quinces till they are of a good thicknefs. It muli be pretty- thick. So you may do apricots, or white pear- plumbs, but never pare them. Butter your dilh, pour it in, and bake it. An Italian Pudding. Lay puff-pafte at the bottom and round the edges of the difh. Upon which pour a mix- ture of a pint of cream, French rolls enough to thicken it, ten eggs beaten very fine, a nut- meg grated, twelve pippins fliced,.fome orange- peel and fugar, and half a pint of ted wine. Half an hour will bake it. An Apple Pudding. Scald three or four codlins, and bruife them through a fieve. Add a quarter of a pound of bifcuit, a little nutmeg, a pint of cream, and ten eggs, but only half the whites. Sweeten to your tafte, and bake it. A Norfolk Dumpling. Make a batter as for pancakes, with a pint of milk, two eggs, a little ialt, and as much flour as is needful. Drop this batter in pieces, into a pan of boiling water. And if the water boils faft, they will be fufficieutly done in three minutes. Throw them into a fieve or cullen- der to drain. Then lay them in a difii. Stir > aOf DUMPLINGS. 147 a flice of frelh butter into each, and heat them hot. A Hard Dumpling. Mix flour and water, and a little fait, like a pafle. Roll it into balls, as big as a turkey’s egg. Have a pan of boiling water ready. Throw the balls of pafle into the water, hav- ing firll rolled them in flour. They eat belt boiled in a beef-pot; and a few currants added make a pretty change. Eat them with butter, as above. . . „ Apple Dumplings. Pare and core as many codlings as you in- tend to make dumplings. Make a little cold butter pafle. Poll it to the thicknefs of one’s finger, and wrap it round every apple flngly; and if they be boiled flngly in pieces of doth, fo much the better. Put them into boiling water, and they will be done in half an hour. Serve them up with melted butter and whits wine; and garnifh with grated fugar about the difli. CHAP. XIV. Of SYLLABUBS, CREAMS, and F L U M M E R Y. * To make a fine Syllabub from the Co w. SWEETEN a quart of cyder with double relined fugar, and grate a nutmeg into it; then milk the cow into your liquor. When H 2 YOU (148 Of CREAM S. you have thus added what quantity of milk you think proper, pour half a pint, or more (in proportion to the quantity of fyllabub you make) of the fweeteft cream you can get, all over it. A White Syllabub. Take two porringers of cream, and one of white wine, grate in the (kin of a lemon, take the whites of three eggs, fweeten to your tafte, then whip it with a whilk ; take off the froth as it rifes, pour it into your fyllabub-glaffesor pots, and they are fit for ufe. To make a fine Cream. Take a pint of cream, fweeten to your pa- late ; grate in a little nutmeg, add a fpoonful of orange-flower water, or rofe water, and two fpoonfuls of fack; beat up four eggs, and two whites, ftir it all together one way over the fire, till it is thick; have cups ready, and pour it in. Lemon Cream. Take the juice of four large lemons, half a pint of water, a pound of double refined fugar 'beaten fine, the whites of feven eggs, and the yolk of one beaten very well; mix all together, ffrain it, fet it on a .gentle fire, ftirring it all the while, and (kim it clean; put into it the peel of one lemon when it is very hot, but not to boil ; take out the lemon-peel, and pour it into china dilhes. Rafberry Cream. Take a quart of thick fvvcet cream, and bod it two or three wallops; then put it off theOf CREAMS. 149 the fire, and ftrain the juice of ralberries into it to your tafte ; ftir it a good while before you put your juice in, that it may be alinoft cold when you mix it, and afterwards dir it one way for almod a quarter of an hour; then fweeten it to your tafte, and when cold you may lend it up. Whipt Cream. Take a quart of thick cream, and the whites of eight eggs beaten with half a pint of fade ; mix it together, and fweeten to your tade with double refined fuga-r; you may perfume it (if you pleafe) with mufk or ambergreafe tied in a rag, and deeped a little in the cream. Whip it up with a whilk that has a bit of lemon- peel tied in the middle. Take off the froth with a fpoon, and Jay it in your glades or ba- fons. To make a Trifle. Cover the bottom of a dilh or bowl with. Naples bifeuits broke in pieces, macaroons in halves and ratafia cakes. Juft wet them through with fack ; then make a good boiled cuftard not too thick, and when cold pour it over, then put a lyllabub over that. — You may garndh with ratffia cakes, currant jelly, and flowers. Flummery. Take a large calf’s foot, cut out the great bones, and boil them in two quarts of water ; then ftrain it off, and put to the clear jelly hall a pint of thick cream, two ounces of H 3 fweet150 Of FLUMMERY, &c. fweet almonds, and an ounce of bitter almonds, well beaten together. Let it juft boil, then ftrain it off, and when it is as cold as milk fiom the cow, put it into cups or glades. Oatmeal Flummery. Pof oatmeal (as much as you want) into a broad deep pan, cover it with water, Ifir it to- gether, and let it Hand twelve hours ; then pour off that water clear, and put on a good deal of frelh ; fhift it again in twelve hours, and fo on in twelve more. Then pour off that water clear, and ftrain the oatmeal through a coarfe hair fieve, pour it into a fauce pan, keeping it ■ftirrmg all'the time with a Hick, till it boils and becomes very thick. 1 hen pour it into difhes. When cold, turn it into plates, and eat it with what you pleafe, either wine and lugar, or milk. It eats very well with cyder and fugar. You may obler've to put a great deal of wa- ter to the oatmeal, and when you pour off the Jail water, put on juft enough frefh to ftrain the oatmeal well. Some let it ftand forty-eight hours, fo me three days, fhifting the water every twelve hours ; but that is as you like it for fweetnefs or tartnefs. Groats, once cut, do better than oatmeal. Mind to ft if it toge- ther when you put in frefh water. CHAPH 4 v Let ( J5* .) CHAP. XV. Of TELLIES, G I a M S, and ' CUSTARDS. Calfs Feet Jelly. CU T four calf’s feet in pieces, put them into a pipkin, with a gallon of water, cover them clofe, and boil them i'oftly till al* moil half be confirmed, then runtjie liquor through a fieve, and let it Hand till it he cold. With a knife take off the fat, at top and bot- tom, melt the line part of the jelly in a pre- fervi’ng-pan or fkiller, and put in a pint of Rhenilh wine, the juice ol four or five lemons, double refined fugar to your tafte, the whites of eight eggs beaten to a froth; ftir and boil all thefe together near half an hour ; then pafs it through^a fieve into a jelly bag; put into your jelly-bag a very fmall{prig of rofemary. and a piece of lemon-peel; pafs it through the bag till it is as clear as water. Hart's Horn Jelly. Take a large gallipot with hart’s horn, then fill it full with fpring water, tie a double paper over the gallipot, and let it in a baker’s oven with hotilhold bread. In the morning take it out, run it through a jelly-bag, ieafon with juice of lemons, double refined fugar, and the whites of eight eggs well beaten.152 Of JELLI E S. Let it have a boil, and run it through the jell v— bag again into jelly-glafies, putting a bit of lemon-peel into the bag. Currant-fifty. Having ftript the currants from the flalks, put them into a hone j^r : Hop it dole; fet it in a kettle of boiling water half way up the jar ; let it boil half an hour ; take it out, and ftrain the juice through a coarfe hair fieve. To a pint of juice put a pound of fugar ; fet it over a fine quick clear fire in a preferving pan or hell-metal fkillet. Keep flir: ing it all the time till the fugar be melted ; then fkim the feum oft' as fall as it rifes. When the jelly is very clear and fine, pour it into earthen or china cups, or gallipots. When cold, cut pieces of white paper jull the bignefs of the top of the pot, dip them in bran- dy, lay them on the jelly ; then cover the top dole with white paper, and prick it full of holes. Set it in a dry place. \ ou may put fonts in glafles for prefent ufe. Rafberry Glam. Take a pint of currant jelly, and a quart of ra(berries, bruife them well together, fet them over a flow fire, keeping it ftirring all the time till it boils. Let it boil five or fix minutes, pour it into gallipots, paper them as you do the currant jelly, and keep them for ufe. They will keep" for two or three years, and have the full flavour of ralbernes. A CuflardOf CUSTARDS. 153 A Cufarcl. Sweeten a quart of new milk to your tafte ; grate in a little nutmeg, beat up eight eggs well (leaving out half the whites) ftir them into the milk, and bake them in china cups, or put them into a deep china difh. Have a ket- tle of water boiling, fet the cups in, let the water come above half way, but do not let it boil too fafl, for fear of its getting into the cups. You may add a little rofe-water, and French brandy. Boiled Cuflards. Put into a pint of cream two ounces of al- monds, blanched and beaten very fine, with rofe or orange-flower water, or a little mace ; let them boil till the cream is a little thickened, then fweeten it, and ftir in the eggs, and keep it ftirring over the fire till it is as thick as you would have it; then put to it a liittle orange- flower water, flir it well together, and put it into china cups. N. B. You may make them without al- monds. Almond Cujlards. Take a^ pint of cream, blanch and beat a quarter of a pound of almonds fine, with two fpoonfuls of rofe-watcr. Sweeten it to your pa.ate. Beat up the yolks of four eggs, ftir all together one way over the fire, tTll it is thick, then pour it out into cups. Or you may bake it in little china cups. H 5 Rice154- Of P O T T I N G. Rice Cujlards. Boil a quart of cream with a blade of mace, and a quartered nutmeg, put thereto boiled rice, well beat with the cream ; mix thefe to- gether, ftirring them all the while they boil. When enough, take it off, and fweeten it to your tafte; put in a little orange-flower water or brandy, then pour it into difhes. When cold, ferve it up. * CHAP. IX. POTTING and COLLARING. To pot Reef or Venifon. WHEN you have boiled or baked, and cut your meat Email, let it be well beaten in a marble mortar, with 1'ome butter melted for that purpofe, and two or three an- chovies, till you find it mellow and agreeable to your palate. Then put it clofe down in pots, and pour over them a fufficient quantity of clarified butler. You may feafon your in- gredients with what fpice you plcafe. 0 To pot Pigeons, or any other Fowls. Your pigeons being miffed and feafoned with favoury lpice, put them in a pot, cover them with butter, and bake them ; then take them out and drain them, and when they are cold, cover them with clarified butter. 1 he fame wayOf COLLARINO. 155 way you may pot fifh, only bone them when they are baked. To pot Cbarrs or Trouts. Clean the fifh well, and.bone them ; wafh them with vinegar, cat oft the tails, tins, and heads; then feafon them with pepper, ialt, nutmeg, and a few cloves; put them down clore in a pot, and being well covered, bake them for a couple of hours or more, with a little verjuice and iome butter ; then pouf oft the liquor, and cover them \Vith clariftgd butter. To pot Lampreys or Eels. Take lampreys or eels, fkin, gut, and wafh them, and flit them down the back ; take out the bones, and cut them in pieces to lit your pot; then feafon them with pepper, fait, and nutmeg, and put them in the pot, with half a pint of vinegar. 1 hey mult be dole cover- ed, and baked half an hour; and when done, pour off the liquor, and cover them with cja- r.hed butter. To collar Beef. Lay a flank of beef in ham brine a fort- night", then take it out, and dry it in a cloth ; lay it on a board, take out all the leather and Jkm, cut it crofs- and crofs ; feafon it with favoury fpice, two anchovies, and a handful or two of thyme, parfley, fweet marjoram, winter-favoury, onions, and fennel; llrew it on the meat, roll it into a hard collar in a cloth, H 6 fewfew it clofe, tie it at both ends, and put it in a collar pot with a pint of red wine, cocchineal, and two quarts of pump water. When it is cold, take it out of the cloth. To Collar a Breajl of Veal. Bone the veal, feafon it all over the infide ' with cloves, mace, and fait beat fine, a hand- ful of fweet-herbs ftripped of the ftalks, a little fage, penny-royal, and parlley fhred very fine, then roll it up as you do brawn ; bind it with narrow tape very clofe, then tie a cloth round it, and boil it very tender in vinegar and water, a like quantity, with a little mace, cloves, pepper, and fait, all whole. Make it boil, then put in the collars ; when boiled tender, take it up ; and when both are cold, take off the cloth, lay the collar in an earthen pan, and pour the liquor over ; cover it clofe, and keep it for ufe. To collar a Breajl of Mutton. Cut off the red Ikin, and take out the bones and grifiles. Then take grated white bread, a little cloves, mace, fait, and pepper, the yolks ' of three hard eggs bruifed fmall, and a little lemon-peel Hired fine; with which, having laid the meat even and flat, feafon it all over, and add three or four anchovies wafhed and boned ; then roll the meat Ike a collar, and bind it with coarfe tape, and bake, boil, or roall it.0/ COLLARING. 157 To collar Pork. Bone a breafl of pork, feafon it with favou- ry feafoning, a good quantity of thyme, pariley and fage; then roll it in a hard collar in a cloth, tie it at both ends, and boil it; and when it is cold, fteep it in the favoury liquor in which it was boiled. To collar Eels. Scour large filver eels with fait, Hit them down the back, and take out all the bones; then walh and dry them, and feafon them with favoury fpice, minced parfley, thyme, fage, and onion 3 and roll each in little collars in a cloth, and tie them clofe. Then boil them in water and fait, with the heads and bones, half a pint of vinegar, a bunch of herbs, fome ginger, and a pennyworth of ilinglafs ; when they are tender, take them up, tie them clofe again, ftrain the pickle, and keep the eels in it.v CHAP. XVII. Of PRESERVING, DRYING, and CANDYING. To keep Green Peafe till Chri/lmas. rp AKE fine young peas, (hell them, throw X them into a cullender to drain, then lay a cloth four or five times double on a ta- ble, and fpread them thereon 3 dry them very158 Of P R E S E R V I N G. very well, and have your bottles ready, fill them and cover them with mutton fuet fat; when it is a little cool, fill the necks alihoft to the top, cork them, and tie a bladder and a leather over them, and let them in a cool dry place. To keep French Beans all the Tear. Take young beans, gathered on a dry day, have a large ftone jar ready, lay a layer of fait at the bottom, and then a layer of beans, then fait and then beans, and fo on ti;l the jar is full; cover them with fait, and tie a coarfe cloth over them, and a board on that, and then a weight to keep it dole from all air ; fet them in a dry cellar, and when you life them, take fome out and cover them clofe again; Wafh thofe you take out very clean, and let them lie in foft water twenty-four hours, /hitting the water often ; when you boil them do not put any fait in the water. To keep White Bu/lacet Pear Plumbs, or Dam- Jons, isc. for Tarts or Pies. Gather them when full grown, and juft as they begin to turn. Pick all the largell; out; lave about two thirds of the fruit; to the other third put as much water as you think will cover thdm, boil and fkin them; when the fruit is boiled very foft, drain it through a coarfe hair fieve, and to every quart of this liquor put a pound and a half of fugar, boil it, and fkim it very well ; then throw in your fruit, juft give them a feald, take them offOf P R E S-E R v I N G. 159 the fire, and when cold, put them into bottles with wide mouths, pour your fyrup over, lay on a piece of white 'paper, and cover them with oil. To make Marmalade. To two pounds of quinces, add three quar- ters of a pound of fogai, and a pint of fprmg water; put them over the fire, and boil them till they are tender; drain off the 1 quor, and bruife them ; then put them into it again, let it boil three quarters of an hour, and put it into your pots or faucers. To preferve Mulberries whole. Set fome mulberries over the fire in a fkillet o-r preferving pan ; draw from them a pint of juice when it is ftrained; then take three pounds of fugar beaten very fine, wet the fugar with the pint of juice, boil up your fugar and fkim. it, put in two pounds of ripe mulberries, and let them ftand in the fyrup till they are tho- roughly warm ; then fet them on the fire, and let them boil very gently ; do them but half enough, and put them by in the fyrup till next day, then boil them gently again: when the fyrup is pretty thick, and will ftand in round drops when it is cold, they are enough 5 fo put all into a gallipot for ufe. * To preferve Goofebcrries, Damfons, or Plumbs. Gather them when dry, full grown, and not ripe ; pick them one by one, put them into glafs bottles that are very clean and dry, and cork them dole with new corks j then put a kettle160 Of P R E S E R V I NG. a kettle of water on the fire, and put in the bottles with care; wet not the corks, but Jet the water come up to the necks; make a gen- tle fire till they are a little coddled, and turn white; do not take them up till cold, then pitch the corks all over, or wax them clofe, and fet them in a cool dry cellar. To prefrve Peaches. Put your peaches in boiling water, juft give them a fcald, but do not let them boil; take them out, and put them in cold water, then dry them in a lieve, and put them in long wide-mouthed bottles : to half a dozen of peaches take a quarter of a pound of fugar, clarify it, pour it over your peaches, and fill the bottles with brandy. Stop them clofe, and keep them in a dry place. To prefervc Apricots. Pare your apricots, divide them in halves to take out the ftones, and give them a light boil- ing in a pint of water, or according to your quantity of fruit; then add to the water, after taking out the fruit, the weight of your apri- cots in fugar, and boil it till it comes to a fyrup ; put in the apricots again, and give them a light boiling, taking oft the lcum as it riles. When the fyrup jellies, it is enough ; then take up the apricots, and cover them with the jelly; put cut paper over them, and lay them down when cold. To preferve Apricots green. Take apricots when they are young and ten- der, coddle them a little, rub them with a coarl'eOf PRESERVING. 161 coarfe cloth to rake off the fkin, throw them into water as you do them, and put them in the fame water they were coddled in; cover them with vine-leaves and white paper, or fomething more at the top ; the elder you keep them, the fooner they are green ; be lure you do not let them boil; when they are green, weigh them, and to every pound of apricots take a pound of loaf lugar, put it into the pan, and to every pound of fugar, a gill of water ; boil your fugar and water a little, and fkim it, then put in your apricots, let them boil to- gether til your fruit looks clear, and your fy- rup thick; fkun it all the time, it is boiling, and put them into a pot covered with a paper dipped in brandy. To preferve Plumbs. Take plumbs before they have Hones in them, Which you may know by putting a pin through ; coddle them in many waters till they are as green as grafs ; peel them and coddle them again : you inuft take the weight of them in fugar and make a fyrup ; put to your fugar a pint of water; then put them in, fet them on the fire to boil flowly, till they be clear, fkim- ming them often, and they will be very green. Put them up in glafles, and keep them for ufe. To preferve Cherries. Take two pounds of cherries, one pound and a half of fugar, half a pint of fair water, melt your fugar in it; when it is melted, put in your cherries; boil them foftly at firft, then fafter,162 Of PRESERVING. farter, and flcim them; take them ofi two or three tinjes and 111 ike them; put them on again, and let them boil (art. IVh n u,z\ aie °f a good colour, and the. fyrup wih .Laud, they are enbugli. To preftrve Rafbsrrieu Chufe ralbei rics that arc not too ripe, and take the weight of them in fugar ; wet vour fugar with a little water, put in your rafbe:'; ie• , and let them o-jU foft y ; take heed of break- ing them; when they are dear, take hem up, and boil the lyrup till it be thick, enough, th n put therti in again ; and when they are cold, put them up m glades. To prefervc Currants. Take the weight of the currants in fugar, pick out the feeds j to a pound of fugar add half a pint of water; Jet it melt; then put in your currants, and let them do very leifurcly ; fkim tlyem, and take them up; Jet the lyrup boil, then put them on again ; and when they are clear, and the fyrup thick, enough, take them ort'. When they arc cold, put them in glaflcs. To dry Peaches. Take the faircil and ripert peaches, pare them into fair water; take their weight in double rclined fugar : of one lnlf make a very thin lyrup ; put in your peaches, boiling them till they look clear, then fplit and llonc them. After this boil them till they are very tcnJcr, lay them a-drainmg, take the other half ofOf C A N D Y I N G. 163 he fugar, and boil it alrnoft to a candy ; put in ijur peaches, and let them lie all night, then ay them on a glafs, and fet them in a ftove, till hey are dry. If they are fugared too much, vipe them with a wet cloth a little : let the li ft fyrup be very thin ; a quart of water to a aound of fugar. % To dry Cherries. To four pound of cherries, put one pound of fugar, and juft as much water to the fugar as will wet it; when it is melted, make it boil, ftone your cherries, put them in, and give them a boil; lkim them two or th ee times, take them off, and let them ftand in the fyrup two or three days ; then boil your fyrup again, and put it to them, but do not boil your cher- ries any more. Let them ftand three or four days longer, then take them out, and lay them in a fieve to dry ; when dry, lay them in rows on paper; a row of cherries, and a row of white paper, in boxes. To candy Angelica. Gather it in April* boil it in water till it be tender, then take it up and drain it from the water very well; lcrape the outfide of it, dry it in a clean cloth, and lay it in the Iyrup ; let it lie three or four days, and cover it clofe ; the [yrup muft be rich, and keep it hot a good while, but let it not boil ; lay it upon a pie- plate, to let it dry ; and keep it near the fire, left it diffolve. CHAP,( I <4 ) - ^6r, x^r, ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^-, 'll 0/ CHAP. XVIII. PICKLING. f[ “I u Ci £1 To Pickle /Jparagus. i( GATHER your afparagus, and lay therr. in an earthen pot; make a brine of watei and fait ftrong enough to bear an egg, pour it hot on them, and keep it clofe covered. Whet: you ufe them, lay them in cold water two hours.- 1 then boil and butter them for table. If you ufc them as a pic le, boil them as they come out of the brine, and lay them in vinegar. To pickle Nafhirtinn Buds or Seeds. Take the feeds freih off the plant w hen they' are pretty large, but before they grow hard, and throw them into the belt white wine vine- gar that has been boiled up with what fpices; are moft agreeable. Keep them clofe flopped in a bottle. They are fit for ufe in eight days. To pickle or make Mangoes of Melons. Take green melons, as many as you pleafe,, and make a brine ftrong enough to bear an. egg; then p ;ur it boiling hot on the melons,, keeping them down quite under the brine ; let them ftand five or fix days; then take them11 out, flit them down on one fide, take out all the feeds, ferape or fcope them a little in the infideOf PICKLING. 165 [nfide, and wa(h them clean with cold water ; then take a clove of garlick, a little ginger and nutmeg fliced, and whole pepper ; put all thefe proportionably into the melons, filling them up with muflard feed; then lay them in an earthen pot with the flit upwards, and take one part of m'uftard and two parts of vinegar, enough to cover them, pouring it upon them fcalding hot, and keep them clofe flopped. \ T'o pickle Mujhrooms. Cut the Hems of finall buttons at the bot- tom ; wafh them in two or three waters with a piece of flannel. Have in readinefs a (lew- pan on the fire, with fome fpring water that has had a handful of common fait thrown into it; and as foon as it boils, put in your but- tons. When they have boiled about three or four minutes, take them off the fire, and throw them into a cullender ; from thence fpread them as quick as you can upon a linen cloth, and cover them with another. Have ready feveral wide-mouthed bottles ; and as you put in the mufhrooms, now and then mix a blade or two of mace, and fome nutmeg fliced amongft them ; then fill your bottles with diddled vi- negar. If you pour over them fome melted mutton-fat, that has been well drained, it will keep them better than oil itfelf would. To pickle Barberries. Take white wine vinegar and water, of each an equal quantity : to every quart of this liquor^ put in half a pound of fixpennyif 6 Of P I C K L I N G. I fugar, then pick the worft of your barberrie and put into this liquor, and the beft intc glades j boil your pickle with the worft of you: barberries, and fkim it very clean. Boil it til it looks of. a fine colour, and let it ftand to b( cold ; then ftrain it through a cloth, wringing it to get all the colour you can from the bar- berries. Let it ftand to fettle, then pour h clear into the glafies. In fome of the pickle boil a Tittle fennel; when cold, put a bit at the top of the pot or glafs, and cover it clofe with a bladder and leather. ' To pickle Raddijh Pads. Make a pickle with cold fpring-water and: bay-falt, ftrong enough to bear an egg; put your pods in, and lay a thin board upon them, to keep them under water. Let them ftand ten days, then drain them in a fieve, and Jay them on a cloth to dry. Take white wine vinegar, as much as you think will cover them, boil it, and put your pods in a jar, with ginger, mace, cloves, and Jamaica pepper. Pour on your vinegar boiling hot; cover them with a coarfe cloth, three or four times double, that the {learn may come through a little, and let them ftand two days. Repeat this twice or thrice ; when it is cold put in a pint of muftard feed, and fome horfe-raddifh ; cover it dole. To pickle Samphire. Lay what quantity you think proper of fuch famphire as is green in a clean pan, and (after you have thrown two or three handfuls of fait over it) cover it with fpring water. When it has lain four and twenty hours, put it into a brafsof P I C re L I N G. 167 brafs fauce-pan, that has been well cleaned ; and when you have thrown into it one hand- ful only of fait, cover it with the beft vinegar. Cover your fauce pan clofe, and fet it over a Gentle fire ; let it ftand no longer than till it is juft crifp and green, for it would be utterly fpoiled fhould it ftand till it be foft. As foon as you have taken it off the fire, pour it into pickling pots, and take care to cover it clofe. To pickle Onions. Take fmall onions, peel them, lay them in fait and water a day, and ftiift them in that time once ; then dry them in a cloth, and take fome white wine vinegar, cloves, mace, and a little pepper; boil this pickle and pour over them, and when it is cold, cover it clofe. Or, Take finall white onions peeled clean, lay them in water and fait, and put to them a pickle of vinegar and fpice- To pickle Cabbage. Take a large fine red cabbage, and cut it in thin dices, feafon fome vinegar with what fpice you think fit, then pour it ©n fealding hot, two or three times. To pickle French Beans- Gather them before they have firings, and put them in a very ftrong brine of water and fait till they are yellow ; then drain them from the brine, put boiling hot vinegar to them, and ftop them clofe twenty-four hours ; do fo four or five days following, and they will turn green; then put to a peck of beans half an ounce of cloves and mace, and as much pepper. Youi68 0/ P 1 C K L I N G. You may do broom buds and purflane-ftalks the fame way, only let them lie twenty-four hours, and no longer; if they do not turn green, you may fet them on the fire in the pickle, letting them Hand clofe covered till juft warm ; for if they boil, they are fpoiled. To pickle Cucumbers. Let your cucumbers be fmall, frelh gather- ed, and free from fpots ; make a brine of fait and water ftrong enough to bear an egg ; boil this pickle, fkiin it well, then pour it upon your cucumbers, and ftive them down for 24 hours ; then ltrain them out into a cullender, dry them well with a cloth, and take the beft white wine vinegar, with cloves, fliced mace, nutmeg, white pepper corns, long pepper, and races of ginger, (as much as you pleafe) boil them up together, and then clap the cucum- bers in, w.th a few vine-leaves, and a little fait. Let them fimmer in this pickle till they are green, taking care not to let them boil ; put them into jars, ftive them down clofe, and when cold, tie on a bladder and leather. Of MADE WINES. To make Goofberry Wine. TAKE goofberrics when they arc juft beginning to turn ripe, bruife them well, but not fo as to break their feeds, pour to every eight pounds of pulp a gallon of fpring water,0/ MADE WINES. 169 water, and let them Hand in the veffel covered, in a cool place, twenty-four hours; then put them into a ftrong canvas or hair bag, prefs out all the juice that will run from them, and to every quart of it put twelve ounces of loaf fuoar, ftirring it about till it be melted ; then put it up in a well-feafoned cafk, and fet it in a cool place; when it has purged and fettled about twenty or thirty days, fill the veffel full, and bung it down clofe. When it is well worked and fettled, draw it off into bottles, and keep them in a cool place. To make Currant Wine. Gather your currants when the weather is dry, and they are full ripe ; ftrip them carefully from the ftalk, put them into a pan, and bruife them with a wooden peftle ; let it hand about twenty hours, after which drain it through a fieve. Add three pounds ot fine powder fuo;ar to every four quarts of the liquor ; and then fhaking or ftirring it well, fill your veffel, and put about a quart of brandy to every (even gallons : as foon as it is fine, bottle it off. To 'make raijin Wine. Put two hundred weight of raifins, with the ftalks, into a hogfhead, and fill it almofl full with fpring water ; let them lteep about twelve days, frequently ftirring them about, and after pouring the juice off, prefs the raifins. Pot all the liquor together in a very clean vcflel. You will find it hifs for fome time, and when the noife ceafes, it muff be flopped clofe, and ftand for fix or fevcn months; and then if it proves170 O/'MADE WINES. proves fine and clear, rack it off into another veffel ; flop it up, and let it remain twelve or fourteen weeks longer ; then bottle it off. To make Rajbcrry Wine. Take red rafberries when they arc nearly ripe, clean the hulks and ftalks from them, foak them in fair water, that has been boiled and fweetened with loaf fugar, a pound and a half to a gallon ; when thev have l'oaked about twelve hours, take them out, put them into a fine linen prefling-bag, prefs out the juice into the water, then boil them up together, and feum them well twice or thrice over a gentle fire ; take off the veffel, and let the liquor cool, and when the feum rifes, take off all that you can, and pour the liquor into a well-feafoned calk, or earthen veffel ; then boil an ounce of mace irt a pint of white wine, till the third part be confumed, ftrain it, and add it to the liquor; when it has well fettled and ferment- ed, draw it off into a cafk, or bottles, and keep it in a cool place. To make Mcrella Wine. Take two gallons of white wine, and twenty pounds of Morelia cherries ; take away the ftalks, and fo bruife them that the ftones may be broken : prefs the juice into the wine ; and add of mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg, an ounce of each, tied in a bag, grofly bruifed, and hang it in the wine when you put it in the calk. To make £ der Wine. When the elder-berries are ripe, pick them, tnd put them into a ftone jar; fet them in boil- ing0^ MADE WINES. 171 ing water, or in a flack oven, till the jar is as warm as you can well bear to touch it with your hands ; then (train the fruit through a coarfe cloth, fqucezing them hard, and pour the liquor into a kettle. Put it on the fire, let it boil, and to every quart of liquor add a pound of Lifbon fugar, and fkim it often. Then let it fettle, pour it off into a jar, and cover it clofe. To make Cowjllp Wine. Take five pounds of loaf fugar, and four gallons of water, firnmer them half an hour to diffolve the fugar.; when it is cold, put in half a peck of cowflip-flowers, picked and gent- ly bruifed ; then add two fpoonfuls of yeaft, and beat it up with a pint of fyrup of lemons, and a lemon peel or two. Pour the whole into a cafk, let them hand clofe flopped for three days, that they may ferment j then put in fotne juice of cowllips, and give it room to work; when it has flood a month, draw it off into bottles, putting a little lump of loaf fugar into each. ' • ' To make Mead. To thirteen gallons of water, put thirty pounds of honey, boil and feum it well, then take rofeinary, thyme, bay-leaves, and fweet- briar, one handful altogether ; boil it an hour, put it into a tub, with a little ground malt ; flir it till it is new milk warm; ilrain it through a cloth, and put it into the tub again; cut a toall, and fpread it over with good yeaft, and put it into the tub alfo ; and when the liquor is covered over with yeaft, put I 2 it172 Of MADE WINES. it up in a barrel : then take of cloves, mace, and nutmegs, an ounce and a half; of ginger, fliced, an ounce ; bruife the fpice, tie it up in a rag, and hang it in the vefleb flopping it up clofe for ufe. To make Balm Wine. Take a peck of balm leaves, put them in a tub or large pot, heat four gallons of water fcalding hot, then pour it upon the leaves, and let it ftand all night; in the morning drain them through a hair fieve ; put to every gallon of water two pounds of fine fugar, and dir it very well ; take the whites of four or five eggs, put them into a pan, and whifk it very well, before it be over hot; when the fcurn begins to rile take it off, and keep it fkimming all the while it is boiling ; let it boil three quarters of an hour, and then put it into the tub ; when it is cold put a little new yead upon it, and beat it in every two hours, that it may head the better; lb work itfor'two days, then put it into a fvveet veflel, bung it clofe, and when it is fine bottle it. To make Birch Wine. Take your birch water and clear it with whites of eggs ; to every gallon of water take two pounds and a half of fine fugar; boil it three quarters of an hour, and w7hen it is al- mod cold, put in a little yead; work it two or three days, then put it into the barrel, and to every five gallons put in a quart of brandy, and half a pound of doned raifins Before you put up your wine, burn a brimdcne match in the barrel.Of M A D E W I N E S. 173 To make Orange Wines. Take fix gallons of water* fifteen pounds of powder fugar, and the whites of fix eggs well beaten j boil them three quarters of an hour, and Ikim them while any fcum will rife ; when it is cold enough for working, put to it fix ounces of the fyrup of citron or lemons, and fix fpoonfuls of yeaft ; beat the fyrup and yeaft well together, and put in the peel and juice of fifty oranges : work it two days and a night; then tun it up into a barrel, and bottle it at three or four months old. To make Apricot Wine. Take three pounds of fugar, and three quarts of water, let them boil together, and Ikim it well; then put infix pounds of apricots paied and ftoned, and let them boil till they are ten- der ; then take them up, and when the liquor is cold bottle it up; you may, if you pleale, after you have taken out the apricots, let the liquor have one boil with a fprig of flowered clary in it: the apricots make marmalade, and are very good for prefen t fpending. To make Damfon Wine. Gather your damfons dry, weigh them and bruile them with your hand ; put them into an eaithen llein that has a faucet, and a wreath of ftraw before the faucet; add to every eight pounds of fruit a gallon of water ; boil the water, fkiin it, and put it to your fruit fcald- ing hot; let it Hand two whole days ; then draw it off, and put it into a veffcl fit for it, and to every gallon of liquor put two pounds and a 1 3 half174 Of MADE WINES. halt of fine fugar ; let the veflel be full, and flop it clofc ; the longer it Hand the hitter; it will keep a year in the veflel; bottle it out. The finall damfon is the beft. You may put a very fmall lump of double-refined fug^r in every bottle. To make Sage Wine. Take four handfuls of red fage, beat it in a Hone mortar like green fauce, put it into a quart of red wine, and let it (band three or four days clofe flopped, fhaking it twice or thrice, then let it Hand and fettle, and the next day in the morning take of the fage wine three fpoonfuls, and of running water one fpoonful, falling after it one hour or better; ufe this from Michaelmas to the end of March : it will cure any aches or humours in the joints, dry rheums, keep off all difeafes to the fourth de- gree ; it helps the dead p.alfy, and convulfions in the finews, fharpens the memory, and from the beginning of taking it will keep the body mild, ftrengthen nature, till the fulnefs of your day be finifhed ; nothing will be changed in your ftrength, except the change of the hair ; it will keep your teeth found that were not coi rupted before; it will keep you from the gout, the dropfy, or any fwellings of the j. ints or body. To make Quince Wine. Take your quinces when they are thorough ripe, wipe off the fur very clean ; then take out the cores, bruife them as you do apples tor cyder, and pr.efs them, adding to every gallon of juice two pounds and a half of fine iugar;Of MADE WINES. 175 ftir it together till it is diffolved ; then put it in your calk, and when it has done working, flop it clofe; let it hand till March before you bottle it. You may keep it two or three years, and it will be the better. To make Lemon Wine. Take fix large lemons, pare off the rind, cut them, and fqueeze out the juice ; fteep the rind in the juice, and put to it a quart of brandy; let it Hand in an earthen pot dole ffopt three days : then fqueeze fix more, and mix with two quarts of fpring water, and as much fugar as will fweeten the whole ; boil the water, lemons, and fugar together, letting it hand till it is cool ; then add a quart of white wine, and the other lemon and brandy ; mix them together, and run it through a flannel bag into fome vef- fel; let it Hand three months, and bottle it off; cork your bottles very well, and keep it cool ; it will be fit to drink in a month or lix weeks. To make Barley Wine. Take half a pound of French barley and boil it in three waters, and fave three pints of the laft water, and mix it with a quart of white wine, half a pint of borage water, as much clary water, a little red rofe water, the juice of five or fix lemons, three quarters of a pound of fine fugar, and the thin yellow rind of a le- mon ; brew all thefe quick together, run the liquor through a {trainer and bottle it up ; is pleafant in hot weather, and very -good in fevers. 1 4 ' Toryb Of MADE WINES. To make Plumb Wine. Take twenty pounds of Malaga raifins, pick, rub, and fined them, and put them into a tub ; then take four gallons of fair water, boil it an hour, and let it hand till it is blood warm ; then put it to your raifins ; let it ftand nine or ten days, ftirring it once or twice a day; drain out your liquor, and mix with; it two quarts of damfon-juice; put it in a vefTel, and when it has done working flop it dole; at the end of four or five months bottle it. > To make Palermo Wine. Take to every quart of water a pound of Malaga raifins, rub and cut the raifins lmall, and.put them to the wa'er, and let them ftand ten days, ftirring once or twice a day ; you may boil the water an hour before you put it to the raifins, and let it ftand to cool; at ten days end ftrain out your liquor, and put a lit- tle yeaft to it; and at three Jays end put it in the vefTel, with one fprig of dried wormwood ; let it be clofe flopped, and at three months end bottle it off. To make Clary Wine. Take twenty-four pounds of Malaga raifins, pick them and chop them very fmall, put them in a tub, and to each pound a quart of water; let them fteep ten or eleven days, ftirring it twice every day ; you mull keep it covered clofe all the while ; then ftrain it off, and put it in-o a vefTel, and about half a peck of the tops of clary, when it is in bloffom ; flop it clofe for fix w*eks, and then bottle it off; m twoOf MADE W I N E S. 177 two or three months it is he to drink. It is aDt to have a great fettlement at bottom ; there- fore it is bed to draw it off by plugs, or tap 1 pretty high. To make Orange Wine with Raijins. Take thirty pounds of new Malaga raifins, pick them clean, and chop them fmall; you mud have twenty large Seville oranges, ten o them you muff pare as thin as for preferving. Boil about eight gallons of foft water, til a third part be confumed ; let it cool a little, then put five gallons of it hot upon your raifins and orange-peel; ffir it well together, cover it up, and when it is cold, let it hand five days, itn- ring it up once or twice a day-; then pafs ft through a hair fieve, and with a fpoon profs it as dry as you can ; put it in a rundlet tit for it, and add to it the rinds of the other tea oranges, cut as thin as the firft ; then make a fyrup of the juice of twenty oranges, with a pound of white fugar. It muff be made the day before you turn it up. Stir it well together, and flop it clofe. Let it {land two. months to clear, then bottle it up. It will keep three years, and is better for keeping. To make Frontiniac Win£. Take fix gallons of water, twelve pounds of •white fugar, and fix pounds of raifins of the fun cut fmall ; boil thefe together an hour-, then take of ihe flowers of elder, when they are fal- ling and will (hake ofF, the quantity of half a peck ; put them in the liquor u hen it is almofi: cold; the next day put in fix fpoonfuls of fyrup178 Of M a D E W I N E S. of lemons, and four fpoonfuls of ale yeaft; two days after put it in a veffel that is fit for it j when it has flood two months, bottle it off. To make Englijh Champaign, or the fine Currant Wine. Take to three gallons of water nine pounds of Lifbon fugar; boil the water and fugar half an hour, fkim it clean, then have one gallon of currants picked, but not brmfed ; pour the li- quor boiling hot over them ; and when cold, work it with half a pint of yeaft two days ; pour it through a flannel orjieve; then put it into a barrel fit for it, with half an ounce of ifinglafs well bruifed ; when k has done work- ing, flop it clofe for a month ; then bottle it, and in every bottle put a very fmall lump of double refined fugar: This is excellent wine, and has a beautiful colour. T1 make Sarago/a Wine, or Englijh Sack. To every quart of water put a fprig of rue, and to every gallon a handful of fennel-roots ; boil thefe half an hour, then drain it off, and to every gallon of this liquor put three pounds of honey ; boil it two hours, and ikim it well; when it is col.d, pour it off, and tun it into the veffel, or fuch cafk as is fit for it; keep it a year in the veffel, and then bottle it. it is a very good fack. Mountain Wine. Pick out the ftalks of your Malaga raifins, chop them fmall, and add five pounds to every gallon of cold fpring water; let them fleep a fortnight or more, fqueeze out the liquor, and vi barrelOf barrel it in f veflel with brimftone. MADE WINES 179 a velfel fit for it; fir ft fume the Don’t ftop it clofe till the hilling is over. To make Cherry Brandy. Take fix dozen pounds of cherries, half red and half black, mafh or fqueeze them to pieces with your hands, and put to them three gallons of brandy, letting them ftand fteepmg.twenty- four hours ; then put the mafhed cherries and liquor, a little at a time, into a canvas bag, and prefs it as long as any juice will run ; fwgeten it to your tafte ; put it into a yeflfcl fit lot it , let it ftand a month, and bottle it out. Put a lump of loaf fugar into every bottle. To make Shrub Take two quarts of brandy, and put it in a large bottle, adding to it the juice of five le- mons, the peels ot two, and half a nutmeg; ftop it up, let it ftand three days, and add to it three pints of white wine, and a pound and a half of fugar; mix it, ftrain it twice through a flannel, and bottle it up. It is a pretty wine, and a cordial. ; To make fine Milk Punch. Take two quarts of water, one quart of milk, half a pint of lemon-juice, and' one quart of brandy, with fugar to your tafte ; put the milk and water together a little warm, then the fugar and the lemon juice ; ftir it well together, then.the brandy; ftir it again, and run itthrough a flannel bag till it is very fine, then bottle it. It will keep a fortnight or more.i8o 0/ MADE WINES. 1o recover Wine that is turnedJharp. Rack oft your wine into another veflel, and to ten gallons put the following powder : Take oyfter-fhells, ferape and wafh off the brown dirty outfide of the fhell, and dry them in an even till they will powder; put a pound of this powder to every nine or ten gallons of your wine ; ftir it well together, and flop it up, then let it ftand to fettle two or three days, or till it is fine. As foon as it is fine, bottle it off, and cork it well. . To fine Wine the Lifbon Way. To every twenty gallons of wine take the whites of ten eggs, and a fmall handful of fait; beat them together to a froth, and mix them well with a quart or more of the wine; then pour the wine and the whites into the veflel,. ilir it well, and in a few days it will be fine. To clear Wine. Take half a pound of hartfhorn, and diflolve it in cyder, if it be for cyder, or Rhenifh wine for any other liquor. This is qmte fuffieient for a hogfhead* l \ FINIS,9 Lobfteri. 4 Marinated Smelts. ‘Twelve Bills cf Fare, difpo/ed in the Order the Dishes are to Jland upon the TabI*£* JANUARY. Firjl I Cod’s Head, z Soup Same. 3 Roaft Beef. 4 Scotch Collops. 5 Leg of Lamb. Second 1 Roaft Turkey. 2 Jellies.' 3 Woodcocks. 5 Leg of Lamb. Courje. 6 Plumb Pudding.. 7 Petit Patties. 8 Boiled Chickens. 9 Tongue. Cour/e. 6 Almond Cheefe cakes 7 Minced Pies. 8 Larks.A Bill of Fare for FEBRUARY. 1 2 3 4 5 Firjl Courfe. Difh of Fifh. Peafe Soup. Fillet of Veal. Chickens. French Py'e. 6 Beef Collops. 7 Ham. 8 Rump of Beef a la Daube. 9 Marrow Pudding. Second 1 VVild Fowls. 2 Epergne. 3 Hare. • 4 Cardoons. 5 Scolloped Gyftcrs. Courfe. 6 Tartlets. 7 Stewed Pippins. 8 Ragout IViellc. 9 Artichoke Bottoms.) Firfi Cottrfe* StewedCarp or Tench, q Beef Steak Pye., Soup Lorrain. 6 Veal Collops. Chine of Mutton and 7 Lamb Fry. “ Stewed Celery. 8 Almond Pudding. Sheeps Rumps. 9 Calves Ears. Second Cour/e. A Poulard larded. 6 Craw-filh.. A Trifle. 7 Prawns. Tame Pigeons. 8 Fricafee of Rabbits Blancmange. 9 Stewed Pears, Ragou’d Sweet-breadsA Bill of Fare for APRIL. 1 Crimp Cod & Smelts. 6 Small Puddings. 2 Spring Soup. y Cutlets a laMaintenoa 3 Loin of Veal. 8 Beef Trembling. 4 Boiled Chickens. g Tongue. 3 Pigeon Pie. Second Courf. 1 Ducklings. 6 Tanfy. 2 Jel'ies and Syllabubs. • 7 Black Caps. 3 Ribs of Lamb. 8 Oyller Loaves.. 4 Afparagus. g Mufinooms. 5 Roall Sweet-breads..A Bill of Fare for MAY. 3 Roalt Chickens. Cuitards. 8 2 Vermicelli Soup. 7 Collared Mutton. 3 Chine of Lamb. 8 Breaft of Veal Ragout 4 Rabbits with Onions. 9 Pudding. 1 Green Goofe. 2 Epergne. 4 AfparaguB. 5 GreenGoolberryTarts Stand Courfe. 6 Lamb Cutlets. Cocks Combs. Stewed Celery. 7A Bill of Fare for JUNE, 4 Cherry Tart. 9 Lobflers. 1 Turbot. 6 Veal Cutlets. 2 Green Peafe Soup. 7 Harrico. 3 Haunch of Venifon. 8 Ham. 4 Cnickens. 9 Orange Pudding. 5 Lamb P/e. Second 1 Turkey Poults. 2 Apricot Puffs. 3 Fruit. 5 Roafled Rabbits. Courfe. 6 Peas. 7 Fricafee of Lamb. 8 Smelts.4 Stewed Peas. 9 Cucumbers. Firjl 1 Mackarel, &c. 2 Herb Coup. 3 Boiled Goofe, and dewed red Cabbage 4 Bread of Veal a la Braife. Second 1 Road Turkey. 2 Fruit. 3 Rodfted Pigeons. 5 Sweet-breads. Courfe. 5 Venifon Pally. 6 Chickens. 7 Lemon Pudding. 8 Neck of Venifon. 9 Mutton Cutlets. Courfe. 6 Cudards. 7 Apricot Tart. 8 Fricafee of Rabbits.A Bill of Fare for AUGUST. i Stewed Soals. 2, Craw-fifh Soup. 3 Fillet of Veal. 4 Chickens. 5 French Fatty. Second i Roaft Ducks, z Jellies. 3 Leveret. 4 Macaroni. 5 Cheefe-cakes, Courfe. 6 Scotch Collops. 7 Turkey a la Daube. 8 Marrow Pudding. 9 Tongue. Courfe. 6 Matelot of Eels. 7 Fillets of Soals. 8 Apple Pye. 9 Fricafee of Sweet- breads.A Bill of Fare for SEPTEMBER. 1 Difh of Fi(h. 2 Gravy Soup. 3 Road Beef. 4 Chickens. 5 Pigeon Pye. 1 Wild Fowls. 2 Fruit. 3 Partridges. 4 Peas. 5 Sweet-bread3. Firjl Courfe. 6 Harrico of Mutton. 7 Veal Cutlets. 8 Almond Tarts. 9 Ham. Second Courfe. 6 Craw-fifh. 7 Ragou’d Lobfters. 8 Oyfter Loaves. 9 Fry’d Artichokes.A Bill oft Fare ftor OCTOBER. Fir ft Courfc. 1 Cod and OyfterSauce. 6 Chickens. 2 Almond Soup. 7 Small Puddings. 3 Tongue and Udder. 8 Pork Chops roarted. 4 lugged Hares. 9 Torrent de Veau. 5 French Patty. Second Courfte. 1 Pheafant. 2 Jellies. 3 Turkey. 4 Stewed Pears. 5 Roait Lobflers. 6 White Fricafee, 7 Mufhrooms. 8 Oyller Loaves, 9 Pippins.A Bill of Fare for NOVEMBER. 1 Di(h of Fifh. 2 Vermicelli Soup. 3 Chine of Pork. 4 Veal Cutlets. 5 Boiled Turkey and Oyfler Sauce. 6 Beef Collops. 7 Ox Palates. 8 Leg; of Lamb- and Spinach. 9 Harrico. V / Second Courje. 1 Woodcocks. 2 Fruit. 3 Hare. 4 Sheeps Rumps. 5 Oyiler Patty. 6 Blancmange. 7 Crocant. 8 Ragou’d Lobfters. 9 Lamb’s Ears.A Sill of Fare for DECEMBER. Firji Courfe. 1 Cod’s Head. 6 Vea! Collops. 2, Stewed Beef. 7 Lambs fry. 3 Chine of Lamb. 8 Calves Feet Pye. 4 Chickens. g Tongue. 5 Pudding. j Wild Fowls. 2 Jellies. 3 partridges. 4. Larks. j Galantine. Second Covrfe. 6 Prawns. 7 Sturgeon. 8 Savory Cake. 9 Mufhrooms.mt