A mpulation at the Hip-joint. 73 maintained in their situation by another roller applied round the body and over the upper part of the thigh, including the extremities of the two cross-pieces; but this roller is not to be applied over the end of the stump. When the war came well in, stump-caps as they were called, went out, being worse than useless. The stump should be supported on a soft pillow, so as to be as comfortable as possible, and protected by a cradle from accidental injury. If inflammation, accompanied by pain, should take place, cold or iced water should be applied, particularly in primary amputations. In secondary ones, a light warm poultice will be more advantageous, all constriction by sutures or plasters being removed, the parts being simply approximated to each other. Attention should be paid to the directions in aphorism 61. Amputation at the Hip-joint. 77. This amputation essentially owes its existence to the wars of the French Revolution. M. Bourgery says Blandin performed it three times in 1794; once successfully. Baron Larrey did it seven times during his different campaigns, and he says one or two persons who had survived, we're seen by an officer in Russian Poland, but they never reached France. Nevertheless, I always assume that one at least did recover, whether he was really seen or not, being a compliment and a reward justly due to the zeal and ability of my old friend the Baron, to whom the surgery of France is so much indebted. This operation was first done in Spain by the late Mr. Brownrigg, at Elvas, in 1811, and by myself after the siege of Ciudad Rodrigo, but none of our patients ultimately recovered. I operated on a French soldier at Brussels soon after the receipt of the injury at "Waterloo; he survived; and he was the first and the only man seen for a long time afterwards in either London or Paris. The biographer of Baron Larrey says he was present at, and advised the operation to be done; but that is an error, as the Baron did not visit Brussels until after I had left it for Antwerp; neither had I any knowledge of the Baron's writings in 1811 or 1812, when my first operation was done in Portugal. B