Two tends of Collateral Circulation. 181 Two distinct kinds of collateral circulation are at present acknowledged: one by direct large communicating arteries; the other through the direct medium of the capillary vessels, inosculating with each other. Where direct communi- cating arteries exist, little subsequent change takes place in them. It is otherwise with the indirect capillary vessels. When the radial or ulnar artery is divided in the hand, the blood will not only flow readily from each end of the divided vessel, but equally red and arterial from both; the communi- cation being through direct arterial branches from one vessel to the other. It will also be red and arterial if the division take place at the wrist, and may be so in the brachial; but if the femoral in the lower part of the thigh be wounded, the colour of the blood issuing from the lower end of the artery, if any issue at all, will be dark-coloured or venous. It is so, because it has been obtained from the capillary arteries, ■which in this case being empty receive blood by regurgitation from the veins, the valves of which when present do not pre- vent its reflux course. If a limb be injected and carefully dissected four or five days after a ligature has been placed during life high up on the principal trunk, the capillary vessels will be seen to be well injected; but few or none will be found large enough to admit of their inosculation being traced throughout. If another limb be injected and dissected, some sixty days after the ligature has been applied, a diffe- rence will be distinctly observed between the two prepara- tions. In the latter, the capillaries will not appear to be so fully injected, but several larger and more tortuous vessels will be found in situations where they were not expected to exist; and the anastomoses of these one with another, and generally by arches, may be traced to their communication with the principal trunk, both above and below the obliterated part. If an incision were made in the nearest pervious por- tion of the lower part of an artery in the thigh of a person who had undergone this operation, arterial blood would issue from it. The communication would have become direct by communicating branches, and the capillaries would have re- turned to their accustomed duties. 178. During the first twenty-four hours after the division of B