107 Removal of the Astragalus and Calais. "The patient being under chloroform, the diseased foot (the left) having been drawn forwards, so as to be free from the table, an incision was made from malleolus to malleolus, directly across the heel. A second incision was next carried along the edge of the sole from the middle of the first, to a point opposite the astragalo-scaphoid articulation, and another on the opposite side of the foot, from the vertical incision to the situation of the calcaneo-cuboid joint. These latter incisions enabled the operator to make a flap about two inches in length from the integument of the sole. In the next place a circular flap of integument was formed between the two malleoli pos- teriorly, the lower border of the flap reaching to the insertion of the tendo Achillis. This flap being turned upwards, the tendon was cut through, and the os calcis having been disar- ticulated from the astragalus and cuboid bones, was removed together with the integument of the heel, included between the two incisions. The lateral ligaments connecting the astragalus with the tibia and fibula were next divided, and the knife was carried into the joint on each side, extreme care being observed to avoid wounding the anterior tibial artery, which was in view. The astragalus was then detached from the soft parts in front of the joint, and from its articula- tion with the scaphoid bone, and the malleoli were removed with the bone-nippers. The only artery requiring ligature was the posterior tibial. During the few minutes the opera- tion lasted, the patient did not manifest the slightest symp- toms of pain or uneasiness. On bringing the edges of the flaps together, they were found to fit with accuracy, and were secured by twelve interrupted sutures. The wounds were covered by several folds of lint, and supported by a light bandage. The patient, who had lost but very little blood, was then removed to his bed. " On the 21st of February, he was discharged the hospital, exactly two months after the operation, to go into the country, the foot being well, with the exception of a small opening. He came again up to town on the 15th of April,and has become stout. The sinus on the left side of the foot had closed, but a slight collection of matter had formed a little above the instep; this was discharged by means of a puncture with the lancet,