Chloroform and Chloric Ether. 585 lumborum muscle. A vertical incision, two inches long, made at the extremity of the measured inch, should divide the skin, cellular tissue, the tendon of the internal oblique muscle, and expose the outer edge of the quadratus lumborum muscle. Any bleeding vessels to be secured. The last dorsal nerve, if seen lying across the upper part of the incision, should be divided, to prevent the occurrence of pain from its being en- gaged in the cicatrix. The t-.ansversalis abdominis muscle is then to be divided vertically to nearly the same extent of two inches, parallel to the edge of the quadratus, when a quantity of loose lobulated fat will be seen, which should be partly removed and partly displaced by the blunt end of a director, in the vertical direction of the original in- cision, when the intestine will be brought into view. Any bleeding vessels should be secured, and pressure made on the abdomen, which will cause the intestine to become more prominent at the bottom of the incision. A silk ligature is now to be passed into the bowel and through the integuments at the upper part, so as to fix the intestine above, when a second ligature is to be applied in a similar manner below. The intestine is then to be opened between them, care being taken to apply another ligature above, and one below, if the intestine should not appear to be firmly held in its place. If a vessel in its wall should bleed, it must be tied. Inflamma- tion, pain, and restlessness should be obviated as far as pos- sible by fomentations, opiates, and diaphoretics, and strict attention paid to cleanliness, and the comfort of the patient, until the first symptoms have passed away, and he is able to assume the erect position. 423. Chloroform, which has been recommended in all the great operations as a general rule, sometimes proves fatal, when incautiously administered as to quantity, or its use is too long continued. In America chloric ether has been found equally efficient and less dangerous. It should, there- fore, be brought into more general use, and its qualities fully determined.