506 Valvules Conniventes; Villi. of this epithelium extends between the villi, and down to the lower part of each follicle, each column being, generally speaking, shorter and rounder than when covering the villi. The office of the epithelium of the villi has been stated to be protective, that of the follicles to be secretive. A villus, when duly magnified, is seen to have a bulbous extremity, without an opening, and to be covered by epithelium, when the intes- tine is in a state of quiescence, uncalled upon for any purpose of digestion. When digestion commences the epithelium is separated and thrown off. As the chyme begins to pass along the small intestine, an increased quantity of blood circulates in the capillaries of the gut. In consequence of this increased flow of blood, or from some other cause, the internal surface of the gut throws off the epithelium of both villi and follicles, which is intermixed with the chyme in the cavity of the gut. The cast-off epithelium forming ^-gfhs of the covering of the villus, is of two kinds, that which covers the villi, and which from the duty it performs, may be termed protective, and that which lines the follicles and may be termed secretive, each column having a nucleus situated at different parts of it, and bulging out that part. The villi being now turgid with blood, erected and naked, and covered by the chyme mingled with the cast-off epithelia, commence their functions. The summit of the villus becomes at first somewhat flattened, and crowded under the basement membrane with a number of newly-formed and perfectly spherical vesicles, varying from 1000 to less than 2000 of an inch in size. Towards the body of the villus or the inner edge of the vesicular mass, minute granular or oily particles are situated in great numbers, and gradually pass into the granular texture of the substance of the villus. As the process advances, lacteal vessels are shown passing up from the root of the villus, sub-dividing and looping as they approach the spherical mass, which in this stage has become more distinctly vesicular, although no distinct communication can be detected between them. The bloodvessels and capil- laries in injected preparations are now seen, coloured red and running up to the basement membrane, looping with each other immediately beneath it, and ending in one or more