453 Illustrative Cases. Roncesvalles, or on the bridge over the Bidassoa at Iran, we let him die on the eighth or ninth day, without all the aid which surgery might have given him. It is possible he would not have recovered under any circumstances, from the ball being lodged, and from his advanced age. A soldier of the fifth division of infantry was wounded at Toulouse by a musket-ball, which entered between the fourth and fifth ribs of the right side, near the sternum, and came out behind, nearly opposite, fracturing the ribs, the splinters of which were removed. The first symptoms of inflammation haviDg been in some degree subdued by the sixth day, were followed by those more immediately indicating effusion, such particularly as great oppression, difficulty of breathing, and in- ability to lie in the recumbent position, which induced me to introduce, after a little pressure, into the posterior wound a gum-elastic catheter, through which, a quantity of red serous fluid was withdrawn, exceeding perhaps three pints in measure. On the removal of the catheter the discharge of fluid ceased, and, under a strict antiphlogistic treatment, the man gradually recovered, so as to be sent to England on the following June. If the symptoms of oppression had returned, I should have repeated the operation perhaps lower down. Auscultation, if it had been then known, would have smoothed away many doubts and difficulties. A soldier of the 40th regiment was wounded at Toulouse on the 10th April by a musket-ball, which entered about two inches below the nipple of the right breast, passed through the cavity and the lung, and came out behind at a nearly opposite point, injuring the ribs above and below, without entirely destroying their continuity. He was bled largely on the morning of the 11th, and again at night. On the 12th it was repeated; some small pieces of ribs were extracted from both orifices, and some part of his dress from the anterior one. He spat blood when he coughed, and respiration was difficult. Calomel, opium, and antimony, were given in pills every six hours, and the bleedings were repeated daily, and sometimes of tener, for the first eight days, during which time a free discharge, at first serous, afterwards purulent, took place from the wound, after which the inflammatory symp-