138 Compound Fractures. without difficulty. In primary operations, cold water is most applicable in the first instance; in secondary amputations, warmth by fomentations, rather than by even the lightest of poultices. On Compound Fractures. 141. A fracture of a bone, however simple it may be in its nature, is said to be compound when accompanied by an ex- ternal opening in, or a wound of, the soft parts, communicating with the broken bone—a complication which usually gives rise to ulcerative inflammation and suppuration throughout the whole extent of the injury, preventing thereby those milder processes being effected which, under the more favourable circumstance of the skin being unbroken, lead to a speedy union of the broken parts; whence the desire manifested by the surgeon, in ordinary cases of compound fracture, to close the external wound, if possible, but which, from the nature of a gun-shot wound, it is useless to attempt. A fracture is said to be comminuted when the bone is crushed, as by a heavy wheel passing over it. It may still, however, be a simple fracture, that is, without an external wound; and is, in that state, much less dangerous than a similar injury accom- panied by an external opening, however small, the edges of which cannot be immediately and permanently reunited. 142. An arm or a leg, as a general rule, is not to be ampu- tated in the first instance, for a compound or gun-shot fracture. An effort should always be made to save it; and, under reasonable circumstances with regard to the extent of injury, the comfort, climate and ordinary good health of the sufferer, the object will usually be obtained, under good surgical treat- ment. 143. It is not so with the thigh. After the battle of Toulouse, forty-three of the best of the fractures of the thigh were attempted to be saved under my direction, and even selection. Of this number, thirteen died; twelve were am- putated at the secondary period, of whom seven died; and eighteen retained their limbs. Of these eighteen, the state three months after the battle was: five only could be con- sidered well, or as usiDg their limbs; two more thought their limbs more valuable, although not very serviceable, than |