580 Ball the Nucleus of a Calculus. flattened on one side, I kept in a small box, together with the pieces of calculus which were extracted, and showed them annually at my lecture on this subject for many years. One evening, however, I unfortunately left my little box on the table after lecture; and when I recollected, and returned for it, I found that some gentleman had borrowed, and has not yet returned it. At the battle of Chillianwallah a similar wound took place; the ball formed the nucleus of a calculus, and was removed successfully by a gentleman in the service of the East India Company, whose name I have not been able to learn. The following, from Baron Percy, is in point:—A young man was wounded by a pistol-shot, which entered just above the os pubis, through the linea alba, wounded the bladder, and lodged. The belly swelled; a tumour formed in the peri- neum; no urine passed; the bowels were confined, and fever ran high, with a tendency to delirium. Believing that the tumour in the perineum, and the fluctuation he thought he perceived, might be caused by extravasated urine, he punc- tured it with a trocar, and evacuated a large quantity of bloody urine. This induced him to enlarge the opening, and carry it on to the bladder, through which he brought out the ball, some shirt, and several clots of blood. The man was bled nine times in all; the urine after a time passed in the ordinary way, and the patient slowly recovered. An officer was wounded near Bayonne by a musket- ball on the left side; it passed through the ilium across the pubes, and made its exit through the gluteus maximus of the opposite side, but lower down. Urine flowed through both wounds at first very readily, but none of any moment came by the urethra, from which some blood occasionally oozed. The attempt to pass a catheter failed, although the desire to make water was urgent and painful. After a few days the passage of urine by the external wounds became obstructed, apparently by the sloughs; great pain and misery were expe- rienced; fever ran high; rigors and delirium followed extra- vasation of urine, and death closed the scene. The mischief here arose from the catheter not having been passed into the bladder, which could not be effected, from the prostatic part of the urethra or the neck of the bladder having been injured.