Treatment of Empyema ; Operation. 405 mosis of the side and back when the chest was full of blood, a sign which Larrey particularly insists upon, but which cer- tainly does not appear so early as to be distinctive, when other symptoms exist which almost render it certain. The swelling does not arise from transudation of matter through the pleura, but from irritation transmitted through it, as in any other deep-seated abscess. Dilatation of the chest is usually an early symptom, although a considerable effusion may exist without it, or with but a slight elevation of the inter- costal spaces. "When the complaint is distinct, these spaces are elevated to a level with the ribs, so that the surface becomes perfectly smooth and equal; but a further protrusion is a very rare occurrence. Effusion, indeed, of serous fluid to a considerable extent, so as to displace the heart, may take place without the intercostal spaces being elevated, which is only believed to occur when the intercostal muscles have become paralysed. When the matter is evacuated, the muscles recover their tone, and the intercostal spaces reappear. In all cases of empyema, in which the lung is so bound down by adhesions that it cannot be expanded by the con- tinued process of respiration, a cure can only be accomplished by an alteration of the form of the affected side of the chest, by which its cavity is diminished, and often nearly obliterated. This is an effort of nature. The pleura changes its character, becomes so thick as materially to diminish the cavity, the diaphragm ascends, the heart leans to that side in many in- stances, the spine curves, the ribs thicken and become flatter, and close in upon each other, abolishing the intercostal spaces. Treatment.—As long as the febrile symptoms, consequent on the inflammation, continue to any extent, medicines will be of little avail, and counter-irritants should be avoided. When they have subsided, purgatives and diaphoretics may be tried, in combination with tonics, and a light but good nourishing diet. Blisters applied frequently upon a large surface often do good. When these means fail, the operation must be re- sorted to. 316. It has not been satisfactorily decided whether the opera- tion for empyema was first performed on Phalereus, Jason, or Prometheus; and it is therefore said of all three, that