Lung does not always Recede. 450 finger (the whole length) between the ribs, into the wound, without any interruption to its progress, and without being able to reach the termination of the passage of the ball; and Dr. Thomson then passed a probe (its whole length) straight into the chest, with a similar result; thus leaving no doubt on the minds of all present that the ball had passed directly into the posterior part of the chest. Midnight: The blood last taken is very buffy; and there has again been an immense discharge of blood, &c, from the wound; the sheets, mattresses, &c, are saturated with it; and on the floor, under the bed, there is a large pool of blood which had soaked through the bedding. Pulse 114, low and frequent; cough and expectoration as before; pain violent, and great restlessness. Repeat bleeding. Mem Perhaps enough has now been stated to show the nature of the wound; and any further detailed statement of his lordship's sufferings, or tbe treatment of his case, would be unnecessary. On the latter point, however, it may be mentioned, that, exclusive of the general treatment, he was bled seven times, between the evening of the 27th February, and the morning of 2nd of March; the cough, expectoration, breathing, pain, die, being much relieved by each bleeding. A. Hair, M.D. Mr. Guthrie saw the Earl of March on the same day as Colonel Broke, and suggested that no further efforts should be made to find the ball, whilst the treatment adopted should be steadily pursued; and, in 1846, he pointed it out lying under the edge of the base of the scapula. His Grace is now, 1853, in good health, and the chest, well-formed, sounds clearly and soundly in every part, even at the point injured. 341. The ball, in passing through the lung in these cases, de- stroyed the life of that part only which it touched; and although air would pass out at the time, this would not be of long con- tinuance. The wounds being kept covered, the lung did not and does not usually, in similar instances, collapse or recede from the wall of the chest, but quickly recovers its state of expansion, however impaired it may be at the moment by the injury. The track made by the ball gradually suppurates