13 Wounds of the Diaphragm. about half an hour, and that he had better make up his mind on that point; he would, however, see their brass helmets at least a mile off, and that he had then better be off as fast as possible. The apothecary now returned with the mules, and such a packing took place, but where to go was the question. I ventured to recommend Sabugal, as it would be in the rear of the position the army was about to take up, and from which I did not think, as the troops were all assembled, it would be readily dislodged, but that I should, with his permission, stop at Alfaiates with my wounded. T ventured even to add that the contents of some of the pan- niers would be very acceptable; might I take some few thiugs out as the cortege went through Alfaiates. " Oh yes, I might do as I liked, and take anything I pleased." " And you will not disown," I added," anything I do." " Oh no, provided you do not disobey orders." This was not quite so satisfac- tory, as I knew I could do little else, it being contrary to all order being there at all. I stayed at Alfaiates three weeks, until a friend died, about whom I was greatly interested, and had hoped to save. The case is No. 141 of my book on " Injuries of the Chest." He was shot through the left lung, the diaphragm, and the liver, the ball going through from side to side. The examination, after death, proved a fact I had before suspected; viz., that a wound in the diaphragm never heals, but remains a hole, even if the person should live for years. It was a fact rewarding the three weeks very hard work I had brought upon myself, and is now undisputed. My ex- cellent friend of the panniers, the head of thedepartment, since dead, but whom I even now think of with great personal regard and esteem, was superseded shortly afterwards, by a gentleman, some fifteen per cent., in mercantile language, more inefficient than himself; and it was not surprising that between them, 22,000 men of that army, as historians say was the case, or any other possible number, should have been in hospital. A soldier of the 12th Dragoons (Case 147, op. cit.) was wounded, at Waterloo, by a sword, which penetrated the left side of the chest diagonally, and came through the oppo- site or right side below, having in its way, as was supposed at the time, injured the diaphragm. The man recovered and o