Weight of Musket-balls. 19 It is a question worthy of inquiry, whether a greater injury is not inflicted by an English ball, weighing an ounce or sixteen to the pound, than by a French one of twenty to the pound, more particularly as an affirmative opinion has been entertained by officers of the French army, one carrying even the bdton of a marshal. It is also deserving of attention, as improvements are making in modern instruments of destruction. That an English ball makes a larger opening than a French one, cannot be disputed, as the diameter is somewhat larger; but if two soldiers be shot through the fleshy part of the thigh, under precisely similar circumstances, one by a ball of sixteen, the other by one of twenty to the pound, they will both be cured in about six weeks, and fit for duty in two months. There is no advantage or disadvantage in using a 16 or a 20 ball in such cases; the man is disabled for two months by either. When a man is shot quite through the chest or belly, it does not signify whether the ball is a little larger or a little smaller; he is as likely to die from one as the other. I was very much laughed at, some years ago, in consequence of objecting to the small size of the balls usually put into duelling-pistols; and for recommending that they should be made larger, and with a charge of powder sufficient to send them clean through a gentleman, instead of stopping half-way. I was pronounced to be worse than Sir Lucius O'Trigger, of famous memory, and to have out-Heroded Herod, as the saying is; but the objectors were only literati, and not surgeons, and may be pardoned for not knowing the advantage to be derived from a second hole, when a man has already got one in his chest. A ball of sixteen is rather more dangerous than one of twenty, unless there is a sufficient quantity of powder used to send it through the individual, when the size does not signify. It is, however, of great surgical importance that the second or counter opening, should be sufficiently large and free to admit of everything running through it that it would be disadvantageous to retain, and the retention of which matters are usually the cause of death; but that my friends the literati did not know; their business was to amuse, who- ever suffered; mine to save, whether people would or not. It is, however, maintained, that shot No. 16 will break a