Conclusions. 167 although it has not been satisfactorily proved that the con- stitutional affection is capable of giving rise to local disease, such as an ulcer; but if an ulcer should occur from accidental or constitutional causes, it is always influenced by it when in its concentrated form. Fifth.—The application of the contagious matter gives rise to a similar local disease, resembling and capable of propa- gating itself, and is generally followed by constitutional symptoms. Sixth.—In crowded hospitals the constitutional symptoms have been sometimes observed to precede, and frequently to accompany, the appearance of the local disease. Seventh.—The local disease attacks the cellular membrane principally, and is readily propagated along it, laying bare the muscular, arterial, nervous, and other structures, which soon yield to its destructive properties. Eighth.—The sloughing of the arteries is rarely attended by healthy inflammation, filling up their canals by fibrine, or by that gangrenous inflammation which attends on mortifica- tion from ordinary causes, and alike obliterates their cavities. The separation of the dead parts is, therefore, accompanied by haemorrhage, which, when from large arteries, is usually fatal. Ninth.—The operation of placing a ligature on the artery at a distance, or near the seat of mischief, does not succeed, from the incision being soon attacked with the disease, unless it has been arrested in the individual part first affected, and the patient has been separated from all others suffering from it. Tenth.—The local disease is to be arrested by the application of the actual or potential cautery: an iron heated red-hot, or the mineral acids pure, or a solution of arsenic, or of the chloride of zinc, or some other caustic which shall penetrate the sloughing parte, and destroy a thin layer of the unaffected part beneath them. If a sinus or sinuses have formed under the skin or between the muscles, from the extension of disease in the cellular or areolar structure, they must be laid open, and the cautery applied; for if any part affected be left un- touched or undestroyed by the acid, the disease will re- commence and spread from that point. The parts touched by