Effects of a Ligature on an Artery. 199 stand the subject, disobeyed the order, conceiving that there must be some mistake. At daylight on the 25th, I was greatly annoyed on finding that the operation had not been done, and that the mortification had begun to spread the evening before. It was then too late. On the 26 th, it was above the ankle, with considerable swelling up to the knee. At night the man died; and the next morning, at six o'clock, I removed the femoral artery from Poupart's ligament to its passage through the triceps, which part was affected by the mortifica- tion. The ball passed between the artery and vein in the spot where the vein is nearly situated behind it, and adherent only by cellular membrane, through which the ball made its passage, the coats of the vein being little injured, and those of the artery not destroyed in substance, although bruised; it was at this spot much contracted in size, and filled above and below by coagula, which prevented the transmission of blood, and the vein above and below the wound was filled by a coagulum, and was also impassable. This preparation is unique, and is perhaps the only one in existence proving the elasticity which vessels possess, and their capability of avoid- ing to a certain extent an injury about to be inflicted upon them. It is in the museum at Chatham. 186. When a round and small ligature is properly applied to an artery of a large size, such as the femoral, the sides of the vessel are brought together in a folded, plaited, or wrinkled manner; the inner and middle coats of the artery are divided, the outer one remains entire and apparently unhurt. If the ligature be removed, an impression or indentation made by it on the outer coat will remain as a mark; and if the artery be slit open in a careful manner, the division of the inner coats will be obvious. These changes were known to Desault, and are mentioned by Deschamps in his work on the Liga- ture of Arteries. They were more satisfactorily proved to occur by Dr. Jones; and have been clearly stated by Mr. Hodgson and others. The remaining part of the process differs from the account they have given, and from observa- tions I have had opportunities of making on the living and on the dead, is as follows:—The inner and middle coats, formed