402 Empyema. frequently pointed out by the sinking of the powers of life than by any new suffering. The signs of effusion may be discovered on auscultation, and the treatment is essentially similar; blistering and counter-irritants, being perhaps more useful, if time be granted for their application. 313. Empyema, from tv,in, and irvov, pus,—a name given to all collections of fluids in, and to the operation for evacuating them from the cavity of the chest. Empyema is not a special disease, but the result of another; commonly of acute or chronic pleurisy, or of injuries of the chest, which give rise to inflammation, ending in suppuration. When it occurs from the effusion of a serous fluid, constituting a local dropsy, it is usually the result of disease of the heart, or of the great vessels, and is accompanied or preceded by symptoms indi- cating the existence of those complaints; in which case it is not likely to be benefitted by any operation. The disease is then denominated hydro-thorax. The serous fluid is generally transparent, although more or less tinged with blood, when thrown out in persons who die within a few days after receiving a wound of the chest. It may, and does occasionally, contain in these cases, a large quantity of blood; but an early effusion of blood is not uncommon in very acute cases of pleuritis. It is usually more or less turbid when the result o* ordinary inflammation, although the presence of albuminous or purulent matter is not constant. "Whether colourless, transparent, turbid, or purulent, it remains free from fetor, unless gangrene has occurred internally, or some communica- tion with the atmosphere has taken place, by an external opening. Whilst the fluid remains transparent, the appearance of the pleura is little changed, but when it has become turbid in any great degree, or flocculent, or purulent, the pleura has lost its natural appearance. In its simplest character, when the fluid is puriform, and particularly if the inflammation has not been very active, it is covered with a layer of whitish inorganic sediment, which can be scraped off by the scalpel. This is sometimes quite red, as if loaded with blood, which had been deposited upon it. Whenever pleuritic symptoms continue beyond the ordinary period, of about three weeks, or, after a