Case deserving of great attention. 226 from the wound in quantity, and of a dark venous colour. This bleeding I pronounced to be from the lower end of the artery. My three friends, in whose hands the case was, could not understand this, and placed a ligature on the external iliac artery, which did not arrest the bleeding. They now, although too late, saw their error, and desired me to do what I pleased, and a ligature secured the lower end of the artery from whence the blood flowed. The man died exhausted a few days afterwards. This is a remarkable case, deserving of the most serious attention. According to the principle laid down as a general rule, the thigh should have been amputated at the seat of injury the morning after the accident, when the signs of mortification of the foot were obvious. But it must be borue in mind that amputations at the trochanter major or hip-joint are most formidable, and not always successful operations; in consequence of which I have recommended another course, deserving in such cases of the most deliberate consideration and trial. (See Aphorism 29.) The leg should have been am- putated immediately below the knee, as I had ordered it to be done in the case of Turn bull, (page 198,) because that is the part in all such cases at which Nature seems capable of arresting the progress of the mortification, if the constitution and powers of the sufferer are good, and equal to the calls upon them. The impairing, the destructive influence a mor- tified leg exerts on the whole system is removed, and an amputation substituted for it of comparatively little moment. When the haemorrhage took place, the lower end of the artery should have been tied. The upper end never bled, and the ligature on the iliac artery was useless. In this case it is probable, as the vein was also injured, that the life of the part at and above the knee might not have been preserved, and the patient would have died. In a case of the kind in whioh the artery was wounded at the lower part of the thigh instead of the upper, amputation at, or just below the wound would be the proper course; this amputation, although dangerous, being much less so than one at the upper part of the thigh or hip-joint. 196. In Aphorism 29, it is strongly recommended not to