forming an A neurismal Swelling. 211 the blood coagulates, when the motion becomes a mere eleva- tion at each stroke of the heart. The whizzing sound or thrill attendant on a ruptured artery is in these cases wanting, being a very diagnostic mark of this accident; although where there is true aneurism, and it has burst, forming a diffused and spurious one, the thrill may be wanting: but the history of these cases enables a surgeon to distinguish between them. If several ounces of blood are thrown out, and remain fluid, they ought to be evacuated, or suppuration will ensue. If they become coagulated, the mass will be gradually absorbed. Fluid blood should be evacuated by a small opening, and the part afterwards treated by compress and bandage. If the fluid or partly coagulated blood should increase in quantity, and the swelling continue to enlarge and pulsate, the exten- sion of the mischief should be arrested by opening the swelling and securing the artery by ligature. When the external opening is enlarged, and the clots which filled it up are at all disturbed, arterial blood begins to flow, and the finger will readily follow the track through which it passes down to the artery, if it should not be too far distant. If the incision is made sufficiently large to enable the operator to remove these clots of blood with rapidity, the finger will more readily pass down to the wound in the artery, which, if a large one, may be thus easily discovered, if within reach and sight, provided the tourniquet be thoroughly unscrewed, and the surgeon is not afraid. A ligature should then be placed above and below the opening in the artery. When an artery is wounded, and the external opening in the integuments heals so as to prevent the blood from issuing through it, a traumatic, spurious, circumscribed, or diffused aneurism is said to form, according to the facility which is offered by the structure of the parts for the confinement or diffusion of the extravasated blood. A traumatic aneur- ismal tumour of this nature differs essentially from aneurism which has taken place as a consequence of disease, and not of direct injury. If a spurious aneurism forms from disease, the artery is in general unsound for some distance above and below the tumour. In the aneurismal tumour from a wound, the artery is perfectly sound, except as far as concerns the