350 Secondary Tumours of the Scalp. whilst the centre remains soft and yielding, giving a sensation to the finger as if the bone beneath were wanting, or, after a blow, the idea that the bone beneath is depressed. If such a swelling be unnecessarily opened, considerable inflammation and suppuration will often follow, to the great inconvenience of the patient; this will in general be avoided by the use of a moderately stimulating cold lotion. 277. In other cases of tumours, which are called secondary, in contra-distiuction to the preceding, the patients go on well for eight, nine, or more days, at the end of which time they com- plain of headache, giddiness, nausea, restlessness, thirst, and generally of fever. A few days more, frequently from the thirteenth to the fifteenth day, rigors, sometimes severe, are superadded, and a swelling, if not observed before, is now per- ceived on the spot where the injury had been received, if the integuments have not been divided; or, if there be a wound, it loses its healthy red appearance, and assumes a yellowish, unhealthy colour, which is accompanied by a thinner and more acrid discharge. From this time the symptoms gradually in- crease, the patients become delirious, convulsed, comatose, and die, and matter is found between the skull and the dura mater, or on the substance of the brain. If this secondary swelling be divided, and the fluid evacuated, which is not good pus, the pericranium will be found detached, and the bone bare. It has been stated that a bone so circumstanced would not be found to bleed on being scraped, and that by attending to the want of haemorrhage from the outside of the cranium, the extent of the evil might be ascertained; and that so long as a denuded discoloured bone will bleed on being scraped, it may be considered that the dura mater is attached below, and that no operation should be performed. The essential difference between the primary and the secondary swellings is to be found in the fact, that although the bone be exposed, and even in some degree may have changed its colour in the primary swelling when matter has formed, the febrile symptoms will subside after its evacuation, healthy granulations will spring up, and little or no exfoliation will take place. In the secondary swelling none of these favour- able symptoms or appearances will take place, for the bone