Ordinary Treatment of Protruded Intestine disajjproved. 525 English Editor makes no comment, and which may therefore be considered to be those which are commonly taught in London, but of which I entirely disapprove. The first is, that the peritoneum is to be divided in cases where an obstacle is interposed to the return of the intestine; this I aver to be less necessary for the intestine than for the omentum. The second is, that " after the reduction the fore-finger must be introduced into the cavity of the belly in order to ascertain that the intestines have not passed into the interspaces of the muscles"—a precaution which is unnecessary, and may do much mischief. The third is, that the patient is then to be placed " in such a posture as that the intestines should least press against the wound," to which direction I object. The surgeon should certainly take care that the intestine does not pass between the layers of muscle, nor anywhere else than into the cavity of the belly. So far, however, from the intes- tine being pushed away from the cut peritoneum, the most favourable position for it would be to be applied against the edges of the cut membrane, and even rising up, for the least possible distance, without or above it, the great object to be desired being to facilitate adhesion by as perfect an apposition of these parts as possible, whilst the external wound is accu- rately closed by the continuous suture, and duly supported by adhesive plaster compress and a bandage, provided it be methodically applied. The next best thing which can happen is that, every part being relaxed and the patient perfectly quiescent, the intestine should press so steadily and yet so gently against the wounded peritoneum, that it must be kept in constant apposition with, without protruding through it. A soldier of the Artillery was stabbed in 1812 with a long knife, in two places, by a townsman late in the evening, and was carried into the hospital for the sick and wounded French prisoners in Lisbon. The wound in the belly was situated somewhat more than an inch to the right side of the umbilicus, and was about an inch in length from above down- wards; through it a considerable protrusion of small intestine, without any omentum, had taken place. This was distended by flatus, and of a dark brown colour when I first saw it, some time after the receipt of the injury. The bowel being