V Effects of a Concussion at a later period. 305 went to bed, and got up next morning suffering only from a slight headache, and stiff from his bruises, of which, however, he thought nothing. On the second day I saw him in conse- quence of headache, throbbing in the temples, sickness, and general malaise or discomfort. Being a stout young man, thirty ounces of blood were taken from the arm in a sitting posture, until he nearly fainted, after which he was relieved. In the evening the symptoms having all returned, pulse 88, and full, he was bled in the erect position until he fainted, forty ounces being taken away. The blood of the morning was buffed and cupped, and the bowels had acted freely. On the morning of the third day the pulse, which had become fuller, yielded to twenty-four ounces of blood, and in the afternoon, on its rising again, to sixteen more; after which the symptoms gradually subsided, and he appeared to be restored to health, with one interruption from irregularity in diet, which required the further loss of blood by cupping behind the ears, and some sharp purgation. His cure was not however permanent; for having dined out a month afterwards, he became delirious during the night, and required to lose sixteen ounces of blood in the morning, which relieved, but did not cure him. Some pain remained in his head, the pulse continued at 90, the tongue was white, with thirst, loss of appetite, and watch- fulness. Calomel and opium were now administered until the mouth became affected, when he quickly got well; although a slight relapse or two afterwards convinced him that he could not drink nor lead an irregular life with impunity. There are no cases of convalescence after disease or injury which require more care than those which follow injuries of the head. Relapses, from apparently trifling causes, are ex- tremely frequent, and gradually but certainly undermine the health; they are, in fact, connected with chronic derange- ment of the brain, or of its membranes; and unless successfully met, generally end, after the lapse of a few weeks or months, in irritative fever and death. In many instances, and parti- cularly among poor people subject to privations and of irre- gular habits, in whom an injury of the head has not originally been of any apparent importance, such a state of irritation D D 2