Directions for Amputating. 72 bone thus denuded, if unremoved by the saw. The saw was also directed to be held perpendicularly to, and not across, the bone, nor even diagonally to it—an apparently trivial, but yet great improvement. The last part divided is an outer and thin layer of hard bone, which does not so readily splinter on the side as on the under part, by the weight of the leg. 73. The limb to be amputated is not to be held by the assistant in the manner described and usually shown in books: one hand ought not to be above the knee, but below and by the side of it, the other grasping the calf, so that the limb may be duly supported, and drawn inwards or outwards, in the opposite direction to the saw, as it divides the last layers of the bone. 74. The common integuments of the stump should be drawn together, in primary amputations, by sutures formed of flexible leaden wires; by threads of silk, if leaden wires be not attain- able. The vessels which bleed should be carefully secured by single yet fine threads of dentists' or other strong silk, one end to be cut off, in primary amputations. In secondary amputations, when the parts are not sound, both ends of the ligature should be cut off; and in such cases, the edges of the wound should be only brought together, without the expecta- tion or the desire for union taking place. 75. The removal of a limb should not occupy two minutes, but the securing the bloodvessels should be done without reference to time; when carefully effected, there is little fear of secondary bleeding, and the stump should be closed at once. It has been lately recommended not to close the stump for four, six, or eight hours after the operation; but this is not advisable, unless the depressed state of the patient, or other causes, should have rendered it impossible to secure, in a proper manner, all the vessels which are likely to bleed. It will be less painful and dangerous to delay, in such cases, than to have to re-open the stump. 76. When the edges of the incision have been brought together by the hands of the assistants, and by the sutures indicated, strips of some kind of adhesive plaster should be applied between them, and a little wet lint over the incision, retained by two cross-pieces of rollers, the ends of which are