Of the Duke of Richmond. 449 by a musket-ball at the battle of Orthez, while at the head of his company, in the 52nd light infantry. He was standing, at the moment, with his right side towards the enemy. The ball entered that side of the chest, between the fourth and fifth ribs, nearly in a line with the lower edge of the scapula. He fell to the ground with great violence, and was speechless for some time. He stated to me at a subsequent period that the sensation he felt at the moment was, as if he had been " cut in two." On immediate examination there was no other opening to be found but the one where the ball had entered; nor were the medical officers able to feel the ball anywhere, under the skin, or under the muscles. The wound having been dressed, he was laid on a door and removed to Orthez, about three miles from the scene of action; during which he complained of excruciating pain, extending from the wound to the top of the os ilium on the same side; the pain being much aggravated by frequent and severe cough, with copious expectoration of frothy mucus, and much florid blood; respiration hurried; countenance pale. The moving him to Orthez occupied nearly three hours; a great part of the ground being very rough and broken, the men could not well step together, and the consequent un- avoidable shaking and jolting caused much pain. On his arrival in Orthez, he was extremely languid, with a tendency to syncope. Pulse feeble; extremities rather cold. Seven in the evening: After having been faint for an hour, he became hot and restless; pulse 108, and full; skin more hot; and the respiration short, and more hurried. After he was placed in bed, hemorrhage from the wound to a very consi- derable extent took place. Eight ounces of blood were taken from the arm. (Conld bear no more.) 15th inst., a.m.: After the bleeding he became more quiet, and had less pain; but he has since become very restless, and the pain returned, with a full, hard, and frequent pulse. The wound has again discharged a very considerable quantity of blood. Bleeding repeated as before. Nine p.m.: Deputy-Inspector Thomson, and Staff-Surgeon Maling examined the wound. Mr. Maling introduced his q q 2