14 Wounds of the Diaphragm. returned to his duty. Ou the 6th of September, nearly fifteen months afterwards, he was attacked, after cleaning his horse, by all the symptoms of a strangulated internal rupture, and died next day. On opening the body, the greater part of the stomach was found to have passed through a hole in the diaphragm, made by the sword, and had become strangulated, like any other part constituting a hernia or rupture. The moral of these stories is yet to come. A respectably dressed woman, of a middle age, by which something between forty and fifty may be understood, came into my room one morning, saying she " was sent to show me her domen." Seeing that I hesitated, and did not appear to understand, she added, " the mark of the cut, Sir, made by Mr. , in my stomach, fourteen inches, Sir, from the end of the breast-bone, to the bone below." This was conclusive, and we proceeded forthwith to examine, and there it was sure enough. " Then, Ma'am," said I, " you were regularly opened." " Oh yes, Sir," she replied," a lump twice as big as your head was taken out, and the doctors were very kind. One put back my bowels, another arranged my liver, and pushed my stomach up into its place, but there was some difficulty about what they called my colon." "And the lump," I said, " did that bleed?" " Oh, no, Sir, very little," it was tied before it was cut away from my womb, which was shoved back to its place." She concluded by saying, by way of climax, and looking a little demure, " I have had a child, Sir, since that." I could only express my thanks, and assure her she was a lucky woman, but that ladies often did take a great deal of killing—more, I be- lieved, than men. Since that period, it is calculated that 150 or 160 operations of a nearly similar naturehave been done; one I saw myself precisely similar, the woman dying of bleeding after several days. Obstetricians or accoucheurs, the class of gentlemen who have generally done these things, have re- commended, some a cut of ten, some of eight, some of six, some of four inches, instead of fourteen; but whether the cut be longer or shorter, one third of the sufferers only have escaped with life; and the operation is not considered quite as successful as might be wished, more particularly as the complaint is usually one of great inconvenience and dis-