Illustrative Cases. 479 been injured. Under the administration of calomel, antimony, and opium, this symptom was gradually disappearing, -when I left him to rejoin the army. He was sent to the rear at the end of ten weeks, nearly well. On the day preceding the battle of Fuentes d'Onor, in 1811, Serjeant Barry was wounded in the chest. The ball entered close to the nipple of the left breast, and passed out at the back, between the eighth and ninth ribs. The anterior opening of the wound soon healed, but the posterior one did not do so for a considerable period, when he became affected by such severe cough, with expectoration, that his medical attendant deemed it proper to reopen it. The symptoms were relieved, and portions of his shirt and jacket were discharged. After this his health improved so rapidly as to enable him soon to join his corps. The wound in the back repeatedly opened and healed—generally at intervals of twelve or four- teen months; but for five or six years it ceased to do so. His appetite was small and delicate; flatulence was much com- plained of; and if the stomach at any time happened to be overloaded, vomiting occurred. He died of mortification of the left leg, Jan. 4th, 1833. On examination, the whole of the stomach, and the greater part of the transverse arch of the colon, were found in the left cavity of the chest, having passed through an opening in the diaphragm extending about three inches in a transverse direction, near the centre of the dorsal attachments of that muscle. The peritoneum lining the diaphragm was firmly attached to the parts passing through it. The wound in this instance was through muscular, not ten- dinous, parts. The preparation is in the museum at Chatham, No. 63, Class 6. A French soldier was admitted into the Gensd'armerie Hospital at Brussels, in consequence of a wound from a musket-ball, at the battle of Waterloo, which entered behind between the eighth and ninth ribs, near the spine, and lodged internally. After many severe symptoms and much suffering, he died on the 1st of December, worn out by the discharge, which often amounted to a pint a day, and for the free exit of which the external wound had been early enlarged. On