24 Secondary Ilcemorrhage rare. 3. When a limb is carried away by a cannon-shot, any de structive bleeding usually ceases with the faintness and failure of strength subsequent on the shock, and a haemorrhage thus spontaneously suppressed does not generally return; the appli- cation of a tourniquet is not then necessary, unless as a precau- tionary measure, when it should be applied loosely, and tbe patient, or some one, shown how to tighten it if necessary. A musket-ball will often pass so close to a large artery, without inj uring it, as to lead to the belief that the vessel must have receded from the ball by its elasticity. A ball passed between the femoral artery and vein of a soldier at Toulouse without doing more injury than a contusion, which gave rise to inflam- mation and closure of the vessels, followed by gangrene of the extremity. General Sir Lowry Cole was shot through the body at Salamanca, immediately below the left clavicle; a part of the first rib came away, and the artery at the wrist became, and remained, much diminished in size. General Sir Edward Pakenham was shot through the neck on two different occa- sions, the track of each wound being apparently through the great vessels. The first wound gave him a curve in his neck, the second made it straight. His last unfortunate wound, at New Orleans, was directly through the common iliac artery, -and killed him on the spot. Colonel Duckworth, of the 48th regiment, received a ball through the edge of his leather stock at Albuhera, which divided the carotid artery, and killed him almost instantaneously. 4. Secondary haemorrhage of any importance does not often occur. On the separation of the contused parts, or sloughs, a little blood may be occasionally lost; but it is then generally caused by the impatience of the surgeon, or the irregularity of the patient, and seldom requires attention. 5. A large artery does sometimes give way by ulceration between the eighth and the twentieth days; but the proportion is not more than four cases in a thousaud, requiring the appli- cation of a ligature; exclusive of those formidable injuries caused by broken bones, or the inordinate sloughing caused by hospital gangrene, when not poperly treated. 6. A certain constitutional alarm or shock follows every serious wouud; the continuance of which excites a suspicion of