Orifices of Entrance and Exit of a Ball. 511 fibres of the muscles was distinguished at the time, and it was supposed that the sufferers would recover, without any permanent defect. The absorption of the muscular fibres was therefore a subsequent process; whether this result may or may not be prevented in similar cases by a more active or a longer-continued treatment, with the early application of a retaining bandage, is yet to be ascertained. It may be that some muscular fibres were actually ruptured and others bruised in these cases; but the extent of the absorption was greater than the apparent injury would seem to have war- ranted. Abscesses form from neglected injuries of this kind, and give rise to the most serious apprehensions of their bursting into the cavity of the abdomen, which, however, they very rarely do. The safety of the peritoneum and its capability of affording sufficient resistance to the progress of the matter through it seem to depend upon the strength of the fibrous structure on its outer or muscular side; the inner or really serous surface being very delicate, and offering but little resistance to the application of any moderate degree of force. Lieutenant-Colonel, now Lieutenant-General Grey, was wounded at the assault of Ciudad Rodrigo, in 1812, by a musket-ball on the leftside and fore-part of the abdomen near the crest of the ilium; it made a wound about four inches in length, cutting away the muscles of the abdominal wall so deeply as to lead to the exposure, and as I feared, to the ulceration of the peritoneum, when the sloughs should sepa- rate. It did no such thing however; granulations, on the contrary, sprang up from the bottom and sides of the wound, which gradually closed in, and healed without further difficulty. 377. It has been supposed, theoretically, to be a matter of im- portance to discriminate between the orifice of entrance of a ball passing through the abdomen or its wall, and that of its exit. Practically it is a matter of indifference, although the part on which the ball impinges is usually distinguished by a more circular and depressed appearance, whilst the opening of exit more frequently resembles a tear or slit, the edges of which are rather disposed to protrude. A ball striking obliquely against the wall of the abdomen,