Illustrative Cases. 4jy between the trachea and the cavity of the chest was distinctly traced. The left lung presented some trifling tuberculation, but was not materially diseased. William Griffin, aged eighteen, was admitted into the Westminster Hospital on September 14. Ten days before his admission into the hospital he discharged a pistol against the left side of his chest, causing a wound correspond- ing to the middle of the eighth rib, from which a very small quantity of blood escaped. The medical practitioner who was called to him at the time passed a probe to the extent of four inches into the wound. The wound had nearly cicatrized, but he became the subject of acute pain, diffused over the whole of the left side of the chest, accompanied by fever and fre- quent cough, dyspnoea, and inability of lying on the right side. After the lapse of a week he was transferred by his surgeon to the medical wards, under Dr. Roe, at which time he had begun to expectorate purulent matter of an extremely foetid character, occasionally mixed with blood. His respiration was hurried, the right side of the chest expanding much more freely than the left; the lower three-fourths of the affected side were dull on percussion; tubular respiration could be de- tected at the upper part, but at the lower part no air appeared to enter; well-marked modification of voice existed over the whole of that side of the chest. By measurement no differ- ence m the relative size of the chest was observed, but the intercostal spaces of the left side remained motionless during expiration. The heart could be felt feebly pulsating at the epigastrium. Oct. 15th.—He suffered from a violent paroxysm of coughing, during which great dyspnoea suddenly came on. He sat propped up in bed, respiration was almost ineffectual, his face livid and covered by a cold clammy sweat, pulse scarcely per- ceptible at the wrist, and his extremities were becoming cold On examining the chest, the left side, before quite dull, now afforded tympanitic resonance on percussion, which, together with the total loss of respiration, and the presence of metallic tingling, proved the existence of pneumothorax. A trocar was introduced between the sixth and seventh ribs, and was followed by an escape of gas, with about five drachms of pus