Experiments on Wounds of the Intestines. 529 Hons of those who have made experiments on the intestines of living animals, are—first, that wounds not exceeding four lines in length (or the third part of an inch), no matter what their direction may be, are not so apt, as might be supposed, if left to themselves, to be succeeded by extravasation of the contents of the intestinal tube; and that, in the majority of cases, nature, properly aided by art, is fully competent to effect reparation. Secondly, that wounds of the bowels, to the extent of six lines, whether transverse, oblique, or longi- tudinal, are almost always, if not invariably, followed by the escape of the contents of the bowel, and the consequent de- velops ent of fatal peritonitis. It may therefore be concluded, from experiments made on animals, as far as they can be relied upon with reference to man, that every wound in the bowel, of such extent as shall not admit of its being tem- porarily filled up by the protrusion and eversion of its internal or mucous coat, which always takes place as an effort of nature to close the wound, ought, if possible, to receive assistance from art, and that can only be given with advantage in the first instance. Mr. Travers tied a thin ligature firmly round the duodenum of a living dog; the ends were cut off, the parts returned, and the external wound properly closed. On the fifteenth day, the cure being completed, the dog was killed. A portion of omentum, connected with the duodenum, was lying within the wound, and the folds contiguous to the tied part of the intestine adhered to it at several points. A slight depression was observed around the duodenum, the internal or mucous surface of which was more vascular than usual; a transverse fissure marked the seat of the ligature. " The lymph," Dr. Gross observes, " which is effused upon the external surface of a bowel, consequent upon such an operation, gives the part at first a rough, uneven appearance; but, if the animal sur- vive several months, it is generally no easy matter to deter- mine the seat of the injury from the external appearance of the part. Internally, the cicatrization is almost as complete, the continuity of the mucous membrane being everywhere established, leaving scarcely even a seam at the original seat of constriction. The rapid manner in which the ligature cuts z z