Erysipelas of the Scalp. 372 ten skulls which have suffered from very severe slicing cuts. They appear to have been collected from the burial-place of some establishment for invalid soldiers in Germany. The portions of bone thus sliced, and they are large pieces, were once detached, and afterwards reunited a little out of their proper places, so that the points of separation and of union can be distinctly seen. These fissures are all in a certain state of progress towards being filled up by bone, and the patients must have lived some months, if not years, after the receipt of their respective injuries; for bone is deposited apparently with difficulty, and most carefully, in all such cases, so as not to irritate the membranes of the brain. The opening in the first instance is filled up by granulations, over which a thin skin is formed; this afterwards becomes firmer and harder, being in some cases, where the trephine had been used, a thin but strong membranous expansion extending from one edge of bone to the other. In others it is thicker and more solid, and in a few instances osseous matter is deposited in its circumference, so as in part to fill up the opening, the edges of the bony circle made by the trephine becoming gradually thinner as they appear to grow inwards. It is common for an exfoliation to take place in such cases from the edges of the cut bone, and from the circle made by the trephine. It has been occasionally observed after death, that the circular cut edge of the bone does not become thin in the manner described, but that a sort of ridge forms around and within it. When the scalp is torn down without being much bruised, and a large flap extending from the occiput to tbe forehead falls down on the shoulder, covered with blood or dirt, the flap should be cleaned and restored to its place. When it is large, two or three sutures may be necessary to keep it in its proper situation. The flap may not entirely adhere under any ma- nagement, but it will do so in parts, and care should be taken to evacuate at an early period any matter which may form, by small but sufficient incisions made where required; this will in general be above, and about the ear. When the flap is much bruised, the attempt at adhesion by close apposition will be useless until after suppuration has taken place, when