304 Supervention of Mania. mouth and limbs; pupils fixed, the right being more dilated than the left; pulse 120; heat of skin natural; respiration deep and rapid, without stertor; the sphincters not relaxed. A turpentine enema was given, and a pill of calomel was swallowed with great difficulty. The head was shaved, and a cold lotion applied; he soon afterwards became violent, and required the restraint of a tight-jacket. The pulse fell in the afternoon to 84. Nov. 2nd.—Passed a restless night without sleep, and has a wild appearance: pulse 96, and regular. At twelve o'clock became sensible, and gave a confused account of the accident. "Was freely purged, and a quarter of a grain of the acetate of morphia was given every four hours: the first at seven, the second at eleven, and the third at three in the morning. 3rd.—Has passed a quiet night, but with little sleep; the morphia has had a soothing effect; talks rationally, although a little confusedly, and recognised his mother, who says he received a violent blow on the head three years ago, which has rendered him mad ever since whenever he drinks too much. Pulse 72; bowels open, and is free from restraint. At seven in the evening, he suddenly started up in bed, saying some one was going to murder him. Half a grain of the acetate of morphia quieted him; it was repeated at half-past twelve and at half-past four, and kept him quiet, although he did not sleep. 4th.—He was collected, quiet, and free from restraint; pulse 96, rather full; secretions natural. The morphia was continued in adequate doses for a few days, and he gradually recovered. 252. Concussion induces affections of the brain and of its membranes of an equally serious nature, at a more distant period of time, when the stage of stupefaction and insensibility is wanting; it is to guard against such an occurrence that persons who suffer from falls or severe blows on the head usually lose blood. A gentleman was thrown from his gig near Hounslow, and received a very severe shock and several bruises, without feeling much hurt, or being aware that his head had actually touched the ground. He came up to town,