Illustrative Cases. 454 tonis subsided; the cough became easier, the expectoration less, and free from blood; breathing easy. The calomel was omitted; a mild farinaceous diet was allowed instead of a little gruel, and a very little bread and milk. In a fortnight the wounds began to heal. On the 1st May, some small pieces of rib were removed from the anterior wound, after which both gradually closed, and he was forwarded to Bor- deaux on his way to England in the beginning of June, cured. Corporal Dunlary, of the 69th Regiment, was wounded on the 16th of June, 1815, at Quatre Bras, by a musket-ball, which entered the thorax, fracturing the seventh rib on the fore-part of the right side, and lodged. He said he had lost a large quantity of blood from the mouth, and some from the wound, between that and the 19th, when he was brought to the hospital in Brussels. The pulse was then quick and hard, respiration difficult and anxious, and a bloody discharge issued from the wound on every respiration; bowels confined since the accident; was bled to forty-four ounces; saline purgatives, with calomel, antimony, and opium, were given until the 29th June, when the wound discharged good pus. From this time, at different periods for six weeks, he lost ninety-two ounces, more blood, being strictly placed on milk diet. Several pieces of rib exfoliated. He was sent home on the 31st August, declaring himself quite as well as ever he had been in his life; the ball remaining undiscovered. A soldier of the Fusilier brigade was struck by a musket- ball on the right side of the front of the chest, at the battle of Albuhera; it entered between the fifth and sixth ribs, passed through the lungs, and lodged. Three days after- wards, when the first symptoms were in part subdued, he complained of pain in a particular spot, nearly opposite to where the ball entered, and at which part something could be felt deeply seated. An incision being made, the ball was found lodged in the intercostal muscles between the ribs, whence it was easily removed. A considerable discharge of reddish-coloured serum followed, with great mitigation of the symptoms, after which, under strict treatment, the man re- covered, and was sent to Elvas with every prospect of a cure. Lieut.-Colonel Harcourt and Major Gillies, of the 40th