External Carotid to be secured rather than the Common. 241 and useless wound, more dangerous, perhaps, than the original one it was intended to relieve. When Professor of Anatomy and Surgery to the College of Surgeons, in 1830,1 stated, that in wounds of the neck which rendered it advisable to place a ligature on some part of the carotid, on account of the supposed impracticability of laying bare the leading orifice, it was generally the external carotid which should be secured, rather than the primitive trunk; there not being sufficient reason for cutting off the supply of blood to the head by the internal carotid, unless the operation on the external carotid should fail. This direction should be implicitly followed. 212. A man was wounded by a ball in the side of the neck, and suffered severely from secondary haemorrhage. Some days after being brought into the hospital, M. Breschet, unable to arrest the bleeding, was about to apply a ligature to the common carotid, when the man died in time to prevent it. On examination after death, the vertebral was found to be the artery wounded, between the second and third vertebra. The ligature of the carotid, had he lived a little longer, would have been a useless addition to his misery. Professor Chiari, of Naples, tied the trunk of the left common carotid on the 18th of J uly, 1829, on account of a false aneurism below the mastoid process, consecutive to a wound made by a sharp-pointed instrument under the angle of the jaw. The man died on the ninth day, and the wounded artery was found to be the vertebral, between the transverse processes of the first and second vertebrae. M. Ramaglia says, a man, thirty- nine years of age, was wounded by a sharp-cutting, penetrating instrument, below the left ear, from which an aneurismal swelling resulted. The common carotid was tied, but as this did not arrest the pulsations of the aneurism, the ligature was removed, and the patient, after suffering from various acci- dents, died, when the vertebral was found to be the artery wounded. M. Maisonneuve, of Paris, lately laid the following most instructive case before the Academy of Medicine:—A lady was shot by her husband, who stood close to her, with a pistol loaded with ball. The wound was inflicted on the anterior Y