332 Peculiar Fracture of Inner Table. strictly antiphlogistic plan of treatment to which all persons with such injuries should be subjected. 265. When the sword or axe has penetrated the inner table, the case is of a much more serious nature; for this part will be broken almost always to a greater extent than the outer table; and will be separated from it, and driven into the membranes, if not into the substance of the brain itself; the surface of the bone showing merely a separation of the edges of the cut made into it. These cases should all be examined carefully. The length of the wound on the top, or side, or any part of the head which is curved and not flat, will readily show to what depth the sword or axe has penetrated. A blunt or flat-ended probe should in such cases be carefully passed into the wound, and being gently pressed against one of the cut edges of the bone, its thickness may be measured, and the presence or absence of the inner table may thus be ascertained. If it should be separated from the diploe, the continued but care- ful insertion of the probe will detect it deeper in the wound. A further careful investigation will show the extent in length of this separation, although not in width; and will in all pro- bability satisfy the surgeon that those portions of bone which have thus been broken and driven in, are sticking in or irri- tating the brain. In many such cases there has not been more than a momentary stunning felt by the patient; he says he is free from symptoms, that he is not much hurt, and is satisfied he shall be well in a few days. An officer was struck on the head in Halifax, Nova Scotia, by a drunken workman with a tomahawk, or small Indian hatchet, which made a perpendicular cut into his left parietal bone, and knocked him down. As he soon recovered from the blow, and suffered nothing but the ordinary symptoms of a common wound of the head with fracture, it was considered to be a favourable case, and was treated simply, although with sufficient precaution. He sat up, and shaved himself until the fourteenth day, when he observed that the corner of his mouth on the opposite side to that on which he had been wounded was fixed andthe other drawn aside; andthathehadnotthefreeuse of the right arm so as to enable him to shave. He was bled largely, but the symptoms increased until he lost the use of