54 Seasons for immediate Amputation and for delay. 50. Whilst some persons, under the loss of a limb high up, are reduced to a state of syncope, or nearly approaching to it, which renders them almost, or even entirely speechless; others suffer extreme pain, and earnestly entreat assistance, under which circumstances, amputation should be performed forth- with. In the former, the administration of stimulants may render the operation less immediately dangerous. 51. Chloroform, or other similar medicaments, may produce an effect in such cases as yet unknown. Its careful administra- tion may not destroy the ebbing powers of life, and may render an amputation practicable, which could not otherwise be per- formed without the greatest danger. It may be otherwise; the point, however, is to be ascertained, although in all cases of great suffering its use should be unhesitatingly adopted. 52. When the sufferer is brought to the surgeon at the end of half an hour, having lost a limb below the thigh or shoulder by a cannon-shot, he will often be found in a state of such great depression, as to be likely to be destroyed by the inflic- tion of a serious and painful operation like amputation. This has occurred to me so often as to induce me to recommend delay for five, six, or even eight hours, if the unfortunate person did not suffer much, and appeared likely to be revived by the proper use of stimulants. 53. This recommendation originated from the fact, that as one seriously wounded man has as much claim as another to the attention of the surgeon, all could not be attended to at the same time; and the success following the deferred cases of amputation was as great, if not greater, than in those on which the operation was more immediately performed. 54. The advantageous results of primary amputations, or those done within the first twenty-four, or at most forty-eight hours, over secondary amputations, or those done at the end of several days, or of three or four weeks, has been so firmly and fully established as no longer to admit of dispute. 55. When an amputation is deferred to the secondary period, a joint is often lost. A leg which might have been cut off below the knee in the first instance, is frequently obliged to be removed above the knee when done in the second.