61 Important Cases. 18th.—Is better, and the pain diminished. She looks some- what better, but is becoming thinner. 20th.—Less pain in the limb, which is swelled, and tender to the touch, and all the superficial veins very much enlarged. The groin more swollen and tender; sickness gone, and her appetite returning; she is allowed good nourishing simple diet. The stump has been poulticed since the 9 th to promote suppu- ration. 25th.—During these five days it was interesting to see the patient eat, and desire solid food, and in her extremely emaciated state, seem to enjoy it. The bowels occasionally de- ranged. Pulse always from 126 to 136. Is slightly jaundiced in colour, but declares that she is better, and will get well. 27th.—Gradually sank in the evening, and died; the limb having everywhere diminished in size, except at the groin, where the swelling was more circumscribed, resembling the appearance of a chronic abscess approaching the surface. On examination after death, the termination of the vein on the face of the stump was open, and in a sloughy state; above that, for the distance of four inches, and as high as Poupart's ligament, the inside of the vein bore marks of having been inflamed, but the inflammation seemed to have been of an adhesive character; above that point, the inflam- mation appeared to have been of an irritative or erysipelatous kind, had gone on to suppuration, and the vein was filled with purulent matter, lymph, and blood, partly coagulated, and pajtly broken down. These appearances extended up the cava as high as the diaphragm, and traces of inflammation could be distinctly observed almost in the auricle. The dis- ease had passed along the right external iliac and its branches; it had descended along the left iliac vein and its branches in the pelvis to the uterus, and along the limb to the sole of the foot. At the left groin, the iliac vein becoming femoral, was greatly distended with pus, apparently of good quality; and if the patient had lived a day or two longer, it would have been discharged by a natural effort, as in chronic abcess; the viscera were healthy. During the last days of this woman's life, no blood was re. turned from the lower half of the body, unless by the super- o