Wounds and Injuries of the Liver. 552 the Dublin Medical Press, May 14th, 1845. He used this in one case with complete success. The instrument by its forma- tion admits of being passed through the artificial anus, and of being placed on the eperon at the bottom of the wound, where it can be retained for a considerable time without producing the slightest inconvenience. It does not whilst in the intes- tine offer any obstruction to the passage of the foecal matters flowing along the cavity of the tube. It acts as a forceps in retaining the anterior wall ot the intestine in close contact with the posterior surface of the abdominal parietes, whilst the propeller is pressing back the eperon towards the spine; consequently the danger of separating the delicate adhesions in this situation is prevented; otherwise a fatal extravasation into the cavity of the abdomen might ensue. The instrument was made by Mr. Reed, of Dublin, and merits further trial, being apparently less dangerous than the other methods re- commended in similar cases. "Whatever may be the method employed for the cure of an artificial anus by operation, it cannot be doubted that the patient must be exposed to all the dangers which may residt from inflammation, for which he must be prepared beforehand, and the symptoms of which must be met and subdued as they arise; or if this cannot be accomplished, the mechanical means, if any are used that can be taken away, must be removed, and quiet if possible re- stored by their abstraction and the treatment adopted. In successful cases a small aperture will frequently remain, constituting a fcecal fistula instead of an artificial anus. This will sometimes become irritable, inflame, ulcerate, or burst, discharging the solid contents of the bowel; although on the subsidence of the irritation the part under pressure usually returns to its former state. 405. Wounds and injuries of the liver, whether incised or pene- trating, occurring from blows or from musket-balls, are very serious, although not necessarily fatal. Some few persons re- cover altogether; some few with more or less of permanent disability. The remainder die during the first or inflammatory stage; or in the secondary one, which follows from the t welfth or fourteenth day after the primary symptoms have in some measure subsided.