Amputation at the Shoulder-joint. 117 ensue in a short time, when the most favourable moment for operation -will have been lost. 109. Amputation at the shoulder-joint is an operation of little surgical importance. The fear formerly entertained of loss of blood has passed away, and every surgeon now knows that if he should happen to cut the axillary artery unintentionally, it can be held between the forefinger and thumb, without difficulty or danger, until a ligature can be placed upon it. No accom- plished surgeon of the present day should give himself the least concern about compressing the subclavian artery. It is, on the contrary, better, when the arm is raised from the side preparatory to entering or using the knife, that the surgeon should then feel the pulsation of the artery in the axilla, that he may the more easily avoid, and subsequently command it. The axillary artery does not throw out much blood at each pulsation, and a little pressure with the end of the fore-finger will always prevent bleeding, until the surgeon is prepared to take hold of the vessel with the tenaculum or forceps. The operator should, in fact, divest himself of all fear of haemor- rhage. When gentlemen are, however, afraid, and cannot help it, (for Henry IV., of France, ce roy si vaillant, always felt an inconvenient intestinal motion when a fight began,) compression may be made upon the subclavian artery, by the thumb of an assistant, the round handle of a key, or the padded end of the handle of a tourniquet; the latter forms the best pad, and is usually at hand. 110. The great point to be attended to in performing the operation is, to save skin to cover the stump. The directions, therefore, which are usually given for doing it after any parti- cular method can only be occasionally useful, for the surgeon may not always be able to select the parts to be divided or retained. In cases of malignant disease of the bone and peri- osteum of the middle of the arm, the operation should be for the removal of the whole of the bone at the joint, and not the amputation below the head, although the appearance of the integuments, and of the bone itself, would seem to en- courage the attempt to preserve the roundness of the shoulder. In such cases the removal of the extremity at the joint may be done by any one of the many ways which have