337 Depression in a child and in an adult. and the spiculae of bone extend upwards and downwards in its length, a small trephine should be applied as near each end as may be judged advisable, and one edge of the cut bone should be removed by the straight saw, of which Pare* and Scultetus made such use in ancient times, and which Mr. Hey of Leeds revived in modern surgery; or the small straight saw may be used alone, if the object of removing a portion can be attained without the trephine. By these means suffi- cient room will be obtained to remove the broken portions of bone which are irritating the dura mater and brain. The danger resulting from the application of the trephine in such cases, bears no proportion to the risk incurred by leaving the broken portions of bone as a constant cause of irritation. 269. There is an essential difference between a depression of the skull in a child and in an adult. In the child the inner table is not brittle—it bends equally and does not break; it very often does little mischief when depressed, and gradually recovers its level. The brain in young persons is softer and less consistent, and can accommodate itself more readily to pressure for a limited time, without ultimate mischief, than the brain of an adult; so that a continuance of the most urgent symptoms can alone authorize the application of the trephine in children, and in young persons under fifteen or sixteen years of age. The same bending of the long bones in young children, is often observed at the same period of life. 270. The propriety of dividing the scalp in an adult, in order to examine the state of the bone beneath, when evidently depressed, thus rendering a simple although comminuted frac- ture a compound one, is a matter of very great importance, the decision of which rests upon the still more essential point- viz., whether a depressed portion of bone ought, or ought not to be removed ? This again must depend upon the nature and extent of the depression, for many persons who have suffered from such a misfortune have recovered without the depressed portion being raised. It is a question of degree or extent, upon which every surgeon must form his judgment from his own observation and experience. The difference between a simple and a compound fracture a o