Inflammation a consequence 28 They are used to alleviate pain, stiffness, swelling, the uneasi- ness arising from cold, and to encourage the commencing or impeded action of the vessels towards the formation of matter. As soon as the effect intended has been obtained, the poultice should be abandoned, and recourse again had to water, hot or cold, with compress and bandage. I was in the habit of call- ing a poultice a cover-slut. 14. Many simple flesh wounds are cured in four weeks; the greater part in six. Fresh air and cold water are essential. Purgatives may be occasionally given, and abstinence is an excellent remedy. Emetics, bleeding, and something approach- ing to starvation as to solids, are of great importance if the sufferers should be irregular in their habits, or the inflamma- tory symptoms run high. 15. In wounds of muscular parts inflammation usually occurs from twelve to twenty-four hours after the injury, and the vicinity of the wound becomes more sensible to the touch, with a little swelling and increase of discoloration. A reddish serous fluid is discharged, and the limb becomes stiff and nearly incapable of motion,from its causing an increase of pain. These symptoms are gradually augmented on or about the third day; the inflammation surrounding the wound is more marked; the discharge is altered, being thicker; the action of the absorbents on the edges of the wound may be observed; and, on the fourth or fifth, the line of separation between the dead and living parts will be very evident. The wound will now discharge purulent matter mixed with other fluids, which gradually diminish as the natural healthy actions take place. The inside of the wound, as the process of separation proceeds, changes from a blackish-red colour, to a brownish yellow, moistened by a little good pus. On the fifth and sixth days, the outer edge of the separating slough is distinctly marked, and begins to be displaced; the surrounding inflammation extends to some distance; the parts are more painful and sen- sible to the touch; the discharge is more purulent, but not great in quantity. On the eighth or ninth day, the slough is, in most cases, separated from the edges of the track of the ball, and hanging in the mouth of the wound, although it can- not yet be disengaged; the discharge increases, and the wound