Illustrative Cases. 314 fined to a part; for partial convulsive motions do very fre- quently occur without any paralysis accompanying them on the opposite side. Several cases have occurred in which the convulsions have ceased, and the patients recovered after the removal of a portion of bone which was irritating the brain; but convulsions have generally been the forerunners of death, when the seat of injury was unknown, and that assistance could not be given. When they occur in cases apparently of pure concussion, accompanied by inflammation of the brain or of its membranes, and the patient recovers after many days of the strictest antiphlogistic treatment, it is possible that the brain may have been lacerated, and the cure have been effected by adhesion. Convulsions, it must be remarked, are among the most common symptoms of inflammation of the membranes of the brain, without any such lesion of its substance, although they are frequently wanting. They may be expected to take place about and after the fifth day in in- juries of the head, when inflammation of the brain or of its • membranes is about to extend to, or to become continuous with the neighbouring parts, and may be more or less severe, varying from a state of partial trembling of a limb to that of general agitation and restlessness of the body generally; from a slight irregular movement of the eyelids, or of the muscles of the face, to the more marked spasmodic startings of the whole of one side, grinding of the teeth, and contraction of the limbs. It is far different with those convulsive movements which, at a late period, become nearly permanent, or with rigid spasms, resembling tetanus, in which the body is drawn in different directions forwards, backwards, or to one side. These are for the most part forerunners of death. Examination after death in such cases has frequently shown nothing discoverable beyond inflammation of the pia mater and an effusion of fluid, generally purulent, on the surface of the brain, or in its ventricles, or between the pia mater and the tunica arach- noides. The three following cases are intended to show the differ- ent forms of paralysis that ensue after injuries accompanied by compression or irritation of the brain. Charles Murray, private in the 2nd battalion of 1st Foot Guards, aged thirty-three, was wounded on the 18th of June,