Illustrative Cases. 416 tion was loud and rattling in the right side; metallic tinkling distinct in the left; expectoration muco-purulent, with specks of blood, and many black particles. Mr. Guthrie, who saw him for the first time, made a short incision between the sixth and seventh ribs, and cautiously opened the pleura, when a rush of air issued forth with a hissing noise, strong enough to have extinguished several candles. The patient turned on his back, breathed with comparative freedom, and expressed his gratitude for the operation. No fluid issued from the wound when made a dependent opening. On the 31st, the difficulty of breathing and the metallic tinkling had returned, the wound having closed. The wound was re- opened and enlarged; the pulse fell to 120; the metallic tinkling ceased to be heard; the patient took some nourish- ment and an opiate at night. Jan. 1st, 1829.—Has slept several hours; breathing easy; pulse reduced in frequency; appetite good. A canula was placed in the wound, when large quantities of air came through it on each expiration; the heart beat two inches nearer the central line of the thorax than before. During the night he became greatly oppressed, and died next day. On raising the sternum, the heart was found rather to the right of the median line of the chest. The left lung was collapsed to one- fifth of its natural dimensions. The vacant space was filled with air, and about fourteen ounces of turbid serous fluid. The pleurae costalis and pulmonalis presented marks of in- flammation of a few weeks' standing—viz., some thin false membranes, which were easily separated by scraping with the scalpel. There were no marks of more recent pleurisy. A tube was inserted into the trachea, and air blown into the lungs. The left lung expanded to a certain extent, and air was heard to bubble out, when an aperture was immediately recognised at the division between the two lobes, through which the air rushed forth, and extinguished a taper that was held near it. The aperture was circular, fistulous, and capable of admitting a crow-quill, and was found to communicate with a very small excavation, formed by the softening down of some tuberculous matter; into this small excavation a bronchial tube was seen to enter. Thus, the communication