104 Gun-shot Wounds of the Fore-part of (lie Foot. direction in which it may appear inclined to insinuate itself, the limb may be preserved in a useful shape. 96. Wounds from cannon-shot injuring the fore part of the foot are better remedied by amputation at the joints of the tarsus with the metatarsus, than by sawing these bones across; but when the injury affects only one or two toes, they may be removed separately, recollecting that it is of greater im- portance to preserve the great toe than any other, and that this toe is worth preserving alone, when any one of the others would be rather troublesome than useful. Musket-balls seldom commit so much injury as to require amputation as a primary operation, although they frequently render it neces- sary as a secondary one. The splinters of bone are to be re- moved, the ball and extraneous substances are, if possible, to be taken out; and if the bones, tendons, and blood-vessels are so much injured as to render the attempt to preserve them useless, amputation is to be performed; but if the preserva- tion of the limb be thought practicable—and it generally will be so in wounds from musket-balls—the attempt must be made under the most rigid antiphlogistic treatment, the local appli- cation of leeches and cold water from the first, with free openings for the subsequent discharge. Musket-balls seldom injure the metatarsal bones so as to require their removal with their toes, and under the treatment above-mentioned these wounds will in general be healed without further operation. Wounds from grape-shot occasionally render the removal of the metatarsal bone of the great toe at the tarsus necessary, although much should be done to save it. The little and adjacent toes are also sometimes removed at the tarsus, the middle ones but seldom, as it is not an easy operation to perform, in consequence of the naturally close attach- ment of these bones, and the additional compactness they have acquired from the pressure of the shoe. Haemor- rhage from the arteries of the foot authorizes amputation in a very slight degree, even when superadded to other causes; for the incisions necessary to secure the bleeding vessels will not, in general, add much to the original injury, unless they are very extensive; on the contrary, they will render the wound less complicated and more manageable. 97. Amputation at the tarsus, when it is proposed to save the