Mr. Brownrigg'a Operation. leaden sutures in a line from the spine of the ilium towards the tuberosity of the ischium. The ligatures are to be brought out between the sutures and the adhesive strips of plaster assisting them; a little wet lint is to be placed over the wound, and some well-adapted compress under the lower flap: the whole to be retained by a soft bandage. In my successful case there was a shot-hole in the under flap, which did good service; and from seeing its use, I have no objection to a small perpendicular slit being made in the lower flap, and a strip of linen introduced to prevent adhesion, as the immediate union of the flaps cannot be expected, nor is it often to be desired. This mode of proceeding is more certain of making good flaps where integuments are scarce. Where the integuments will admit of the anterior flap being made by the sharp- pointed puncturing knife dividing the parts after it has been passed across from within outwards, there is no objection, and it may be preferred. I have had two added to each of the cases of instruments supplied to the army for the purpose. Professor Langenbeck, when lately in London, informed me he had performed amputation at the hip-joint, in the Holstein war, several times, and he believed more than once success- fully, making the anterior flap by the pointed knife, cutting from within outwards, but the posterior one by cutting through the integuments from without inwards, as I have recommended, in order to make it of a more equal and proper thickness. One point to be attended to is to leave as little as possible of the internal tendinous structure of the great gluteus muscle, which does not readily unite with other parts; a second, not to leave too much muscle behind; and a third, to remove as much as possible of the ligamentous structure about the joint. The after-treatment will be the same as in other formidable cases. The shock, however, of the injury, and of the amputation, will rarely render blood- letting necessary. Cordials, in small quantities, with opiates and a light nourishing diet, should be given. The wound should be wetted with cold water, and the patient constantly watched. Mr. Brownrigg's operation is to be done in the following manner:—Tho patient is to be placed on a low table and pro- perly secured, with the nates projecting over its edge, the n 2