Extraction of Balls. 571 ment, near the opening of the external oblique muscle on the left side, and lodged. Thirteen days after his reception into the hospital at Landau, Lamotte felt with the probe what he thought was the ball lying on the outside of the psoas muscle against the bone. He made the patient lie on his face, and touched the foreign body every day, in order to loosen it. On the thirty-fifth day he was satisfied it was the ball, and on the forty-fifth, after many attempts it was at last extracted. His fifty -second observation relates to a case as nearly similar as possible to those of Sir H. Pakenham and Colonel Wade. He made several deep and long incisions in search of the ball which he could not find; the wound became fistulous, and at the end of a year closed, in all probability to re-open from time to time. The difference in practice between 1743 and 1853 ought to be, that in 1853 the ball should be found first, and the deep and long incisions made afterwards for its extraction, which do not preclude any previous external openings that may be necessary to facilitate the first examination. Captain Campbell was wounded, by a pistol-ball, on the 5th of September, 1805; it penetrated the abdomen on the middle of the right side, and was extracted from nearly the same situation on the left; from its irregular denticulated shape, it would appear to have impinged against a vertebra. He complained of violent pain in the loins and belly, with numbness and pain of the left leg and thigh, and suffered also from the greatest oppression, anxiety, and sickness. An enema was administered, and twenty-four ounces of blood were taken from the arm; lower extremities nearly paralysed; anxiety and oppression great at night. Bloodletting to ten ounces. Cannot pass his urine; hot fomentations; and at twelve at night sixteen more ounces of blood were drawn. At three p.m. had three motions, the two last containing appa- rently a pint of pure blood. Pain and other symptoms being urgent, eight ounces more blood were taken away. At six p.m. passed urine for the first time, highly tinged with blood; has had two motions, also mixed with blood. Pain continuing' ten ounces of blood were abstracted, although occasionally almost fainting on any movement; belly fomented. At eight