348 Contre-coup. mater and the bone. The relief given this time was effective, and the patient perfectly recovered. "La chirurgie ex- pectante" placed this man's life in the greatest jeopardy. It was only saved at the last moment by the aid of that surgery which ought not to have been withheld when the paralysis, by affecting the leg as well as the arm, demonstrated the ex- tension of the mischief within the head. In this instance the operation was successful, but it is not in general so serviceable when delayed to so late a period. It is in cases of this serious nature often a means of prevention rather than of cure. 275. When a severe blow, accompanied by a shock, as from a fall, has been received on the head, and the skull is so thick and strong as to be able to resist the violence thus offered with- out being broken, or is only slightly fractured, the vibration or tremoussement is directly communicated t o the brain, giving rise to laceration or bruising of its structure in various situations; to the rupture and separation of the vessels of the dura mater from the bone to which they are attached, and to derange- ment of other parts, which will in all probability be followed by inflammation, and may even terminate in the formation of matter under the dura mater as well as above it, and even in the brain itself. It is said to take place by " contre-coup" when the mischief occurs in any other part of the head than that which is struck, numerous instances of which are given by the older French authors. They were probably cases of laceration, the consequence of concussion of the brain, and not relievable by the art of surgery; but the injury which the older surgeons particularly distinguished as by " contre-coup," was where the blow was on one side, and a fracture took place or matter was formed in a circumscribed spot on the other; these cases did sometimes, they say, although rarely, admit of relief by opera- tive surgery. These cases, unaccompanied by fracture, do not appear to take place under the improved method of treatment by larger depletion, by antimony, and by the early use of mer- cury. In the event, however, of their occurring, there is no surgeon of the present day who would attempt an operation of exploration on the opposite side of the head to the injury, without some sign of mischief existing at that part, although such operation, if done, might accidentally be followed by success.