Removal of the Head of the Femur. 91 necessary to stop to tie any bleeding vessel until the operation is finished, for little or no blood will be lost. Pause again. The surgeon has just done nearly the outer half of the operation as to cutting, for removing the whole limb at the joint; and if he should now find that the bone is so much shattered in the shaft that he cannot hope to save the limb, there is no difficulty in removing it. To do this, place your long knife inside the bone, with the middle of its edge rest- ing against the outer edge of the iliacus and psoas muscles, and at one firm cut of a strong hand let it cut its way inwards, forming an inner flap; your assistant steadily compressing the femoral artery against the bone above. This artery and the great profunda will both be divided; seize them with the finger and thumb of the left hand, and place a ligature, or assist in placing one, on each branch with the right; or if the trunk of the profunda should have been cut very short, tie the main trunk of the femoral. Let the ligature be a single thread of strong dentists' silk, with which I have successfully tied the common iliac, and no fear need be entertained of its not holding fast if you tie it reasonably tight. The idea usually entertained that a great artery cannot be closed by the ordinary process of nature under a ligature, if a branch be given off near it, is erroneous. I never placed reliance on this opinion; and the common iliac artery of one of the two cases in which I tied it successfully (the patient dying a year afterwards) may be seen at the Museum of the College of Surgeons: it is tied about an inch from the aorta, and was pervious on each side of the ligature, which has closed the vessel to no greater extent than its own width, proving all the facts I have mentioned so frequently on this subject. As to the smaller vessels, they will give no trouble, being easily com- manded, each by the point of a finger. I have not done this operation of removing the head and neck of the femur on a living man, but it must be done, and I am satisfied it will in the end succeed. Amputation at the hip-joint should not be performed, unless the head and neck of the thigh-bone be injured; and it ought not to be done if they be, unless the shaft of the thigh:bone be extensively broken also. The operation I have recommended should bo its substitute, and