Injuries Authorizing the Operation. 74 Eighteen or twenty ways have been suggested for doing this operation, and twenty persons are believed to have survived its performance, several of whom may be living at the present time. A very extensive destruction of the soft parts, the femur remaining entire, does not authorize the removal of the limb in the first instance, unless the main artery be also injured. Captain Flack, of the 88th Regiment, was struck by a large cannon-shot at Ciudad Rodrigo, on the outside and anterior part of the left thigh, which tore up and carried away nearly all the soft parts from the groin or bend of the thigh, below Poupart's ligament, to within a hand's-breadth of the knee. It was an awful affair. He was supposed to be dying, was returned dead, and his commission was given to another. Left to die in the field hospital after the town was stormed, and find- ing himself thus deserted by his own friends, he claimed my aid as a stranger. I took him five leagues to my hospital at Aldea del Obispo. The femoral artery lay bare for the space of near four inches, in a channel at the bottom of the wound; the whole however gradually closed in, and he recovered. If the injury is on the back part, a flap should be made in amputation from the fore part. If the wound should be on the outside, the flap is to be made from the inside, and vice versa, the object being to make the stump as long as possible. A wound of the artery, accompanied by a fracture of the femur, requires amputation, for although many would survive either injury alone, none would, it may be apprehended, surmount both united* If after a fracture in course of treatment, the principal artery should be wounded by some accidental motion of the bone, amputation should in general be resorted to. A ligature on the artery higher up would fail, and the operation of seek- ing for both ends of the injured vessel would cause so much mischief in an unsound part, that the consequences would in all probability be fatal. 78. When the femur is suffering from a malignant disease, commencing in the periosteum, or in its cancellated internal structure, I am reluctantly obliged to say that the removal of the whole bone at the hip-joint offers the best, perhaps the