43 Wind of Cannon-balls. to the ground, and stunned him considerably. On endea- vouring to move, he found himself incapable of stirring, and the sensibility and power of motion in the limb were lost. The leg gradually changed to a black colour, in which state he was carried to Brussels. When I saw it, the limb was black, apparently mortified, and cold to the touch; the skin was not abraded; the leg was not so much swollen as in cases of humid gangrene; the mortification had extended nearly as high as the knee; there was no appearance of a line of separation; and the appearances of inflammation were so slight, that amputation was performed immediately above the knee. On dissecting the limb, I found that a considerable extravasation of bloody fluid had taken place below the calf of the leg, and in the cavity thus formed some ineffectual attempts at suppuration had commenced. The periosteum was separated from the tibia and fibula; the popliteal artery was, on examination, found closed in the lower part of the ham by coagulated lymph, proceeding from a rupture of the internal coat of the vessel. Two inches below this the posterior tibial and fibular arteries were completely torn across, and gave rise, in all probability, to the extravasation. The opera- tion was successful. The proper surgical practice in such cases is to amputate as soon as the extent of the injury cau be ascertained, in order that a joint may not be lost. It is hardly necessary to give a caution not to mistake a simple bruise or ecchymosis for mortification. To prevent such an error leading to amputation, the Baron Larrey has directed an incision to be previously made into the part, and to this there can be no objection. When a large shot or other solid substance has injured a limb to such an extent only as admits of the hope of its being possible to save it, this hope is sometimes found to be futile, at the end of three or four days, from a failure of power in the part below the injury to maintain its life for a longer time: mortification is obviously impending. In military warfare, uncontrollable events often render amputation unavoidable in such a case. Under more favourable circumstances, the sur- geon should be guided by the principle laid down of constitu- tional and local mortification; and although the line cannot