121 Excision of the head of the Humerus. beneath the acromion process, and carries it to the inside of the arm, below the edge of the pectoral muscle, then under the arm to the outside, where it is to be met by another in- cision, begun at the same spot as the first, below the acromion process. The integuments, thus divided, are to be retracted, and the muscular parts cut through, until the bone is cleared as high as the tuberosities. The artery will be seen at the under part, and should be pulled out by a tenaculum or forceps, and secured as soon as divided. The bone is best sawn, the surgeon standing on the outside; the nerves should be cut short, and the flaps brought together by two or three silk or leaden sutures. There are few or no other vessels to tie, and the cure is completed in the usual time, whilst the rotundity of the shoulder is preserved. This operation is similar to that above recommended for the amputation at the joint, which in many cases it is intended to supersede. 116. Excision of the head of the humerus. — The point governing the modus operandi of this operation is, and ought to be, the fact that, under the most favourable state of re- covery which can take place, the shoulder-joint usually be- comes so stiff that its ordinary motions may be con- sidered to be lost. Operative processes which have for their principal object the sparing of the deltoid muscle are unnecessary, for, if spared, it is as useless as if it had been cut; and it seems to have been forgotten that, when cut, it re-unites, and becomes nearly as strong as before it was injured. It is the joint that cannot be moved, not the muscle which has lost its power. I prefer, therefore, in doing this operation, where the injury will permit of it, to make a short crescentic flap by an incision across the anterior part of the shoulder, as in the operation of amputa- tion, which, on being turned up, leaves the joint exposed. The edge of the knife being applied to the head of the bone in a line below, but immediately under the acromion process, divides the capsular ligament, and with it the long tendons of the biceps, on which the arm drops from the socket, or glenoid cavity, and allows the finger to be introduced, when the three muscles inserted into the great tuberosity may be M