56 Purulent Deposits : vain; and the patient dies in a few hours, as in the last stage of inflammation of the lungs, in which effusion or suppuration has taken place." " My attention was drawn to it after losing several cases in this way, as a circumstance of more than common accident, from its having happened in a young officer to whom I was paying considerable attention (at Salamanca.) Since that I have had one well-marked case at Santander, of a sudden and fatal affection of the lungs after amputation of the thigh which was under the immediate care of Dr. Irwin," and of myself as the principal medical officer. The late Mr. Rose, of the Guards, communicated a case after ampu- tation of the arm, to Sir James M'Grigor, who forwarded it to me, and my old friend, the late Mr. Boutflower, who served fre- quently under me during the latter part of that war, and aided me in all my labours and views, forwarded to me, at the same time, two cases from Fuenterabia, which terminated fatally after amputation of the arm, from the deposition of a consider- able quantity of pus in the cavity of the thorax. " So insi- dious," he says," was the approach of the disease, that except a difficulty of breathing which supervened a few hours before death, there were no symptoms indicating the existence of such morbid affection." No further notice was taken of this disease by any one in any of the hospitals on entering France in 1813, neither at St. Jean de Luz, nor Bayonne, nor Pau, St. Sever, Tarbes, or Orthez, until after the battle of Toulouse, where the following cases occurred, which I pub- lished in 1815:— A. soldier suffered amputation of the thigh five weeks after the injury at Toulouse, in consequence of a gun-shot fracture, when in a very reduced state, the discharge being profuse, th» pain great, hectic fever severe. The third day after this ope- ration, from which he scarcely rallied, he complained of diffi- culty in swallowing, and pain in the situation of the thyroid gland, which was found next morning to be inflamed. In spite of the means employed he died on the fourth day of this attack, or the seventh after the amputation, in a state of great ema- ciation. On dissection the whole substance of the thyroid gland was destroyed, a deposit of good pus occupying its place, which descended by the sides of the trachea and oesophagus