Illustrative Cases. 536 the fact of the purulent and sanious depot, without doing in such a case much mischief, if the expectations of the surgeon should not be realised. If the exploring needle should show that a bloody, purulent, or other fluid is really distending the abdomen, no doubt ought to be entertained about enlargiug the original wound, and making a depending opening. Ravatou, in his twenty-fifth observation, relates the case of a soldier, who was wounded five days before by the point of a sabre, to the right of the umbilicus. When the man was brought to him, the belly was swelled, hard, and very painful, with vomiting, hiccough, &c, announcing the approach of death. Believing that the abdomen contained a fluid, either effused or secreted, he made an opening into the cavity imme- diately above Poupart's ligament, or the outside of the internal opening of the ring of the right side, when finding that nothing came from the cavity, he passed his finger upwards along the iliac vessels; and after tearing up some membranous adhe- sions, evacuated a pint of coagulated blood and foetid serous fluid. He then introduced a dossil of lint into the wound to keep it open, fomented and oiled the belly, round which he applied a bandage, and placed the patient on his face. The bad symptoms diminished during the night, and the patient declared himself better in the morning. From the fifth to the tenth day of the wound he was in extreme dauger. On the eleventh, the bed was inundated with a purulent matter of an almost insupportable smell. The cavity of the abdumeu was injected and cleansed, the ordinary dressings applied, and the greatest cleauliness observed. He was subsequently dressed three times a day in a similar manner ; portions of omentum were occasionally drawn away with the forceps. His strength was well supported by every kind of nourish- ment. The night sweats continued until the thirty-third day, and on the seventy-second he was discharged from the hos- pital cured. The discharge at first was serous, and only be- came purulent on the sixth day after the operation. Thomas Mc. Mahon, 76ih Regiment, aged twenty-two, was admitted into the Garrison Hospital, Portsmouth, upon the 13th of June, 1845, with all the symptoms of strangulated inguinal hernia of the left side, of two days' standing, for