Adhesion follows the Closure of a Wound. 433 sion, whether the injury of the chest have occurred from a stab or from a gun-shot. It is the leading fact in the treatment of these injuries, hitherto disregarded by writers on this subject- but on the proper management of which, in both instances, a successful result principally depends. If the closure of the wound lead, in the course of a few days, to the re-establishment of the breathing, aud the antiphlogistic means employed to the cessation of all urgent inflammatory symptoms, adhesion has most likely taken place, or is about to take place, in the neighbourhood of the wound; and the patient will in all pro- bability recover without much further suffering. If this should not occur and effusion take place, the wound should be re-opened, or the fluid evacuated. A soldier of the ninth regiment was wounded at Rolica in 1808, by the point of a sword in the left side; it penetrated the chest, making a wound somewhat more than an inch Ion* through which air passed readily, accompanied by a very little frothy blood, which was also spit up on any effort being made to cough; leaving no doubt of the lung having been injured, that viscus appearing to be retained against the wall of the chest. As the edges of the wound could not be accu- rately kept in apposition by adhesive plaster, two sutures were applied through the skin, and the man was desired to lie on the injured side, with the hope that adhesion might take place, as there appeared to be no effusion of blood into the cavity. He was freely bled on each of the two daVs fol- lowing the receipt of the wound, and gradually recovered hjLFrfVh S°ldier Wa* b™ght iQt0 th° village after"the battle of V.miera, wounded by a sword in the right side of the chest. He said he had lost a good deal of blood; was very pale; pulse small; extremities cold; breathing hurried and oppressed; had splt up some blood. On removing the hand- kerchief, a gaping wound presented itself, an inch and a half long through which the cavity of the chest could be seen the lung having receded. The wound did not bleed As adhesive plasters would not keep the edges of the skint perfect contact if he attempted to move, they were «L together, and after the application of a compress he was mulh relieved. The next day all the symptoms were alleviated p p '