275 of the A rteria Innominate,. higher in the neck before it divides, in which case its pulsa- tion will be perceptible in front of the trachea, and the sub- clavian artery will cross higher in the neck, which is one reason for not continuing the external incision down to the sterno-clavicular articulation in the operation on the right carotid. The subclavian artery, given off behind or a little above the articulation, proceeds outwardly for the space of one inch before it reaches the inner edge of the scalenus anticus muscle, which is about half an inch in width; so that the subclavian artery, when it clears the outer edge of the scalenus anticus muscle in a tall man, is not more than one inch and a half or three-quarters from its origin, even to the spot at which a ligature is usually placed upon it. The first branch given off is the vertebral on the upper and back part of the artery, and distant half an inch from the carotid at the bifurcation. The thyroid axis is given off at the anterior and upper part of the artery, a quarter of an inch more outwardly, and the internal mammary often arises directly opposite from the anterior and inferior part of the artery, descending into the chest behind the junction of the first and second ribs with their cartilages. The inner edge of the scalenus anticus muscle is close to these two last vessels. The phrenic nerve crossing this muscle obliquely, lies on the outside of the thy- roid axis, and on the inside of the internal mammary artery; having crossed the subclavian artery at this part, it descends between it and the junction of the internal jugular and sub- clavian veins to the chest. Internal to this, some small branches of the great sympathetic nerve, which lies behind, pass over the artery; and still more internal, but distant about a quarter of an inch from the carotid artery, the par vagum crosses likewise. The only point at which the subclavian artery can be tied internal to the edge of the scalenus anticus muscle is at this point, on the inside of the par vagum, in a space scarcely more than oue quarter of an inch in width, to which the carotid will be the best guide. It would appear that a ligature' may be as readily applied around the innominata, immediately below the bifur- cation, as around the subclavian, although little or no reliance can be placed on success attending cither operation.