Non-penetrating Wounds. 375 penetrating the chest is the occurrence of inflammation, either of its lining membrane, giving rise to what is called pleuritis, or of the substance of the lung, termed pneumonia, or to both, constituting what has been named pleuro-pneumonia; but many severe blows on the chest are not followed by such serious consequences. On the 17th August, 1808, in the act of leaving the village of Colombeira to ascend the heights of Rolica, a soldier was shot in the leg: he jumped up three or four feet, and made a considerable outcry. A second was struck at the same time by a ball on the shoulder, which did not penetrate, but gave him great pain. A third received a ball on his buff-leather belt, on the right breast. The noise made by these two blows was unmistakable. I saw this man fall, and supposed he was killed; the ball had, however, only gone through his belt, and made a mark on his chest, over the cartilage of the fourth rib, the hardness and elasticity of which had prevented fur- ther mischief. He recovered in a short time, spat a little blood in the night, and after a large bleeding was enabled to accompany me on the 20th to Vimiera, ready for the fight next morning. A soldier was struck, on the hill of Talavera,* on the breast- plate by a ball, which, as he believed, had gone through his body. He was as white as a sheet, and desperately frightened. On opening his coat, I found the ball had indented the breast- plate, and made a round red mark on the skin, without going deeper. I did not see him again for several days, until after crossing the bridge of Arzobispo, on the retreat to Truxillo. He was then engaged in disembowelling a fine fat hog, amongst a herd of which we had, unluckily for them, just fallen. He re- cognised me at once; said that, as I told him, he had been more frightened than hurt; that he had been bled largely and well physicked, and after two or three days he had thought no more of it. I am bound to add, that, in gratitude, he offered me a leg of the pig, which, having nothing to eat, I could not but accept. It supplied a dinner for three others who are now no more. * The Duke of Wellington received a blow from a spent ball at the time, near the left clavicle.