Treatment continued. 574 aperients, such as castor-oil, and by enemata. Opium in all these cases is an important remedy, principally in the shape of morphia. Opium in substance, when introduced into the rectum in the shape of a suppository, or dissolved in half an ounce or an ounce of water, as an enema, should be repeated in such quantities, beginning with two grains, as will procure ease. 417. The urine, in most cases of injury below the peritoneum, flows readily through the wound of entrance, if not of exit, in the first instance, and care should be taken, by enlarging the posterior one, that no obstacle within reach shall prevent it; but after inflammation has been established, the parts swell, and as the slough begins to separate, its passage is often obstructed; the elastic catheter, if not used before, will then render important service, by allowing the sloughs to be separated, without the healthy parts being irritated by the urine being retained. After a time the urine may be only drawn off in small quantities through the catheter, as frequently as cir- cumstances may render advisable. The permanent use of the catheter in these cases will often prevent the urine from forming any devious paths as it proceeds outwards, ending in abscesses and fistulous openings, causing much discomfort and even misery. It is not common for blood to be poured into the bladder in such quantity as to cause much incon- venience; it coagulates with equal proportions of urine, and a silver catheter shotild be used, by which it may be separated into parts, and rendered more easy of solution by injections of warm water. When the neck of the bladder or the prostatic part of the urethra has been divided, so that a catheter cannot be efficiently used, surgery must come with more immediate aid to the assistance of the sufferer, by making a clear and free opening from the perineum for the evacuation of the urine, and of the discharge from the wound. If a ball lodge in or near the bladder, or in the prostate, it must be removed by an operation in the perineum. A soldier of the light division was wounded on the heights of Vera, in the Pyrenees. A musket-ball had entered behind near the sacrum, and had lodged. He was bled twice, in consequence of suffering pain in the part, but was not other-