Enlargement, Debridement, of such Wounds. 443 on the ball being reflected from something solid, which it cannot penetrate, such as a button, a piece of money, a rib, &c. If the ball run under the integuments exterior to the fascia covering the intercostal muscles, it is usually marked by a tenderness in its course on touching the part, and a discoloura- tion of the skin. A ball may, however, run between two ribs for some distance, injuring the muscular structures between them, without penetrating the cavity, in which case, after the first moments of alarm have passed away, the symptoms in- dicative of a penetrating wound either cease, or do not occur, although those of inflammation of the pleura or lung may, and often do follow, to a considerable extent. When the ball cannot be traced, the absence of symptoms, after the first period of alarm has subsided, will enable the surgeon to form the surest prognosis; their absence, however, cannot too certainly be relied on. A ball will occasionally rebound from the sternum, leaving merely a black mark; from the spongy nature of that bone in which they frequently lodge, they require the application of the trephine. If a ball should be felt through a wound in the sternum, the broken portions of bone should be removed by the small saw or by the trephine, and the ball extracted. 337. An enlargement of the wound, the " debridement" of the French, does no harm beyond the pain it occasions, unless there be something to be removed, when it becomes an incision necessary, in many instances, for the removal of extraneous bodies, or for the evacuation of blood, &c. When a wound from a musket-ball appears likely to have penetrated the cavity of the chest, and is too small to admit the end of the finger, it ought to be enlarged, so as to allow of its introduction as far as the ribs, in order to ascertain whether those bones have sustained any injury, or whether anything is lodged ex- terior to or within them. It is not necessary that a man should be cut simply because he has been shot; an enlargement of the wound should be of no greater extent than is absolutely necessary for the purpose intended. When pieces of shell or of a sword or lance, are broken off, and partly lodged in the cavity of the thorax, which is more likely to happen when they enter through the large muscles of the back, they will