139 Gun-shot Wounds of the Femur. a wooden leg; and the remaining eleven wished they had suffered amputation at first. Of the officers with fracture of the femur, one, having been taken prisoner during the action, died under the care of the French surgeons, by whom he was skilfully treated; the other has preserved a limb, which he rather wishes had been exchanged for a wooden leg. In the five successful cases, the injury was in all at or below the middle of the thigh. In the thirteen others who retained their limbs, the injury was not above the middle third; and of those who died unamputated, several were near or in the upper third, and either died before the proper period for secondary amputation, or were not ultimately in a state to undergo that operation. Of the seven amputations which died, two were at the little trochanter, by the flap operation; and the others were for the most part unfavourable cases. In one case only was the head or neck of the bone fractured. This man lived for two months, and, from the dreadful sufferings he endured, it was much regretted that he had not lost his limb at the hip-joint at first. The opera- tion ought, however, to have been the removal of the head and neck of the bone; but he was not seen in time by those who could or would have done this operation, which was then, however, only contemplated for the first time. Nearly all the wounded, after this battle, had every possible assistance and comfort, from the second day after the action. The hospitals were well supplied with bedsteads—no incon- siderable point in the treatment of fractures, and several of the surgeons had been in almost every battle from the com- mencement of the war. The medicines and materials for their treatment were in profusion. The sick and wounded (1359 in number, including 117 officers) were in charge of two deputy inspectors-general, ten staff-surgeons, six apothecaries, and fifty-one assistant-surgeons; and the whole worked from morning until evening with the greatest assiduity. The surgery of the British army was at the highest point of perfection it attained during the war; and this enumeration is given to show the number of medical men required under the most favour- able circumstances for 1500 wounded men, if thoy are to have all the aid surgery can give them. Doctors are not the most