Serous Effusion. 389 ginous, and even bony. When simple adhesions form between the pleurae, they become lengthened with time; and, although they impede the motion of the lung at first, and may give rise to some uneasy sensations, they gradually become elongated, and give no further inconvenience. The fluid thrown out is serous; is often mingled with flocculi or lymph, which are seen floating in it; it is therefore more or less turbid, re- sembling whey. It is often nearly colourless and transparent; when the consequence of injury, it is often tinged with blood, forced out from the capillary vessels of the pleura, or of the false membrane, if not caused by the deposition of the fluid coagulated in the first instance after the receipt of the injury. The quantity of fluid thus thrown out varies from an ounce to several pints; it gravitates according to the position of the patient, unless, when from old adhesions between the pleura, it is confined to particular parts. When the cavity of the pleura is free, and the fluid is in quantity, it compresses the lung, and diminishes its size by pressing or squeezing the air out of it; it is thus pressed towards the vertebral columu, and so greatly diminished in size and augmented in density as to be useless for the purposes of respiration. Whilst the lung is undergoing this compression to its utmost, the medias- tinum also yields, and bulges into the opposite side of the chest, carrying the heart more or less with it; so that when the left side of the thorax is thus affected, the heart is seen and heard to beat on the right. The diaphragm now yields in turn, more on the left than on the right side, from the obstacle to its descent afforded by the live* The intercostal muscles and ribs resist the internal pressure for a consider- able length of time, even for weeks; they at last, however, yield; the ribs may even turn a little outwards, whilst the interspaces in thin persons are said to fill out, so as to render that side of the chest nearly smooth; the size of that side when measured, being larger than the other, in some instances even by two inches, but this rarely occurs unless the fluid within is purulent, and the disease of long standing. 303. After a time, and particularly in wounds of the chest, the effused fluid becomes purulent, the lung, compressed to a small flattened surface, adheres to the spine by what was its l l 2