Convincing Case. 235 201. The necessity for an aneurismal sac below the clavicle, and for its remaining and continuing to remain intact, until the cure is completed, when the subclavian artery is tied above, is rendered unmistakable by the following case:— Ambrose C was admitted into the Charing-cross Hos- pital, in August, 1848, in consequence of a bruise from a sack of beans; there was axillary aneurism, extending under the pectoral muscle up to the clavicle. A ligature was applied in the usual situation on the outside of the scalenus muscle, and came away on the twenty-second day. The aneurismal sac suppurated, and burst three days afterwards, when a quantity of pus and blood, partly fluid, partly coagulated, but very offensive, was discharged. The opening was enlarged, and everything appeared to be going on well, at which time I saw him. On the nineteenth day after the ligature came away, I visited him again, with Mr. Hancock, and merely observed, that he must keep himself very quiet, and I thought he would do well. In the evening he died from haemorrhage, whilst eating some gruel. On examination after death, the artery was found to be sound, except where it communicated with the sac by an opening three-quarters of an inch in length. The ligature had been applied midway between the thyroid axis and the first of the thoracic branches. There was a small coagulum of half an inch in length, both internal and external to the ligature, but not extending to the branch above or below it. The artery was of its natural size as far as the remains of the sac, but beyond it the axillary artery was diminished; the remains of the sac were void of coagulum, except where it communicated with the artery, to which opening a small coagulum had adhered, but had given way at its lower part, and thus caused his death. Between the open- ing and the ligature, five large branches entered into, or were given off by the artery, and through some of these blood was brought round by the collateral branches in an almost direct jnanner, so that the man's life depended on the resistance offered by the small coagulum after the sac had given way; proving in an exemplary manner the value of the sac remain- ing entire. If this case will not convince, it would be useless to bring even the sufferers in such cases from their graves, to affirm