Illustrative Cases. 304 15 th. The pulse and bowels natural, the protrusion has scarcely increased; discharge profuse, and still gleety; a small compress was laid over the dressings, and a bandage was lightly applied. —16th. Pulse and secretions natural; the wound looks more healthy; the discharge something better in appearance; the fungus does not increase.—19th. Is doing well, and does not complain of pain; functions natural; the protrusion somewhat less; discharge good. A small quantity of cloth has come away. —21st. Discharge improved. Continue the purgatives.—20th. The protrusion evidently diminishes, and begins to heal at the edges.—30th. The hernia cerebri has considerably diminished; secretions natural; a small quantity of bone has come away; discharge diminished.—May 4th. The wound is healing rapidly; the patient is now permitted to get out of bed, and has half diet. Another very small piece of bone has come away.— 10th. The wound is now nearly healed.—Between the loth and the 25th several small pieces of bone came away.—On the 26th, on introducing the probe, a small piece of bone followed it; and on further examination a large piece was felt quite loose, and was removed by incision. Discharged cured to Bordeaux. Gentle pressure was made on the protrusions, according to the feeling of the individuals, in both these cases: when made too firmly, it gave rise to swimmings and pain in the head, re- tardation of the pulse, a sense of sickness and fainting, and on one occasion to syncope. Pressure could only be borne when very lightly applied whilst the protrusion was increasing, but could be gradually augmented when it became stationary, and during its diminution and secession. The pressure was con- tinued until after the wound had healed. I had occasion, at Santander, to remove a portion of bone, including the upper part of the lambdoidal suture of the right side, from the head of a soldier of the Light Division, in con- sequence of symptoms of irritation having come on after an irregularity in drinking. He had been wounded by a musket- ball on the heights of Vera, which had fractured and depressed the skull at that part some weeks before. A piece of bone was depressed, and had irritated the dura mater at the part; the membrane had some matter upon its surface, and was