378 Distinction of Sounds. ordinary breathing of an individual is rarely sufficiently strong to enable the auscultator to hear it with distinctness, the patient should be desired to inspire fully and more quickly than usual, without much effort, and without noise from the mouth or nose, or retaining his breath. The inspiration and the expiration are both to be carefully observed. When the ear is firmly and equably applied to the chest of a healthy young person, a very distinct and long-continued sound is heard at the moment of inspiration, and another at that of expiration. This is called the vesicular, or respiratory murmur, and is dependent on the air fully permeating and distending the air-vesicles of the lungs. It has been poetically compared to the sound of a gentle gale rustling in a thick summer foliage—to the whisper of a retiring wave on a sandy beach in a calm day. It is soft, scarcely sonorous, equable, and during inspiration, continuous. In childhood it is louder than in adult persons, arising probably from the greater ac- tivity of the lungs in young than in elderly people. This is called, and especially when perceptible in adults, puerile re- spiration, as opposed to their ordinary, or what in old persons may be called senile; it is more marked during inspiration. When the stethoscope is applied in the situation of the great bronchial passages, as over the first bone of the sternum, under the clavicle, in the centre of, or between the shoulder blades, a different sound is usually, but not always distinguish- able, when the patient breathes fully, arising from the passage of the air through these bronchial tubes. It is compared to the noise made on blowing through a reed or quill, and is called bronchial or tubular respiration, or bronchophony. When heard in other parts of the chest, it is a morbid sound. If the stethoscope be applied over the trachea, the sound is louder, rougher, and more intense, and is called tracheal respiration. On listening upon the trachea during speaking, the voice sounds as if it were passing into the ear, and the words are distinct—tracheophony. This, if heard in any other part of the chest, is a sign of disease, for in the natural state the voice is heard only to resound through the chest, but the words are not heard if the other ear be stopped. When heard, the sound has been called pectoriloquy, and is supposed to imply