Illustrative Oases. 480 examination, the lung was slightly ulcerated on its surface, opposite to where the ball had entered, and a little matter contained in a sac had formed between it and the wall of the chest. That the ball had gone on was proved by the fact of there being an opening in the tendinous part of the diaphragm, through which a portion of the stomach had passed into the chest, from which it was easily withdrawn. The ball could not be found in the abdomen; in all probability, it had passed into the intestine, and had been discharged per anum, as has happened in other instances. James Wilkie, 12 th Light Dragoons, aged thirty-four, was suddenly attacked, at four p.m. of the 6th September, 1815, with violent pain in the umbilical and epigastric regions, accompanied with nausea and great irritability of stomach; pulse small, rapid, and regular. Assistant-Surgeon Egan visited him half an hour after the attack, bled him freely, and caused the abdomen to be fomented with hot water; a large blister was applied to the seat of pain, an ounce of castor-oil was given, and emollient and laxative clysters were occasionally administered. At night the symptoms abated, and he slept about three hours. The next morning his countenance exhibited that appearance of haggardness and anxiety which have always been alarming indications; pulse feeble and rapid; the pain severe; at noon he vomited from two to three ounces of black, foetid blood, in a fluid state; pulse became very feeble. At four p.m. the pains increased, he ejected from his stomach from four to six ounces of dark, fluid blood, that had less foe tor; and at six in the same evening he expired in pain. This man, on the 18th of June, at Waterloo, received a punctured wound from a sword, which entered about an inch below the inferior angle of the scapula of the left side, pene- trated the thorax, appeared to have passed through the diaphragm, the point of the weapon coming out on the opposite side of the chest, between the first and second false ribs. The wounds were quite healed,and he apparently enjoyed good health, when he arrived from Brussels, in August. Appearances on Dissection.—On opening the abdomen, the whole of the intestines, with the exception of the duodenum,