265 Warmth of the. Limb to be maintained. aneurism below, the pulsation in it will cease. The ligature is then to be pressed upwards as far as tbe artery lias been detached, and is to be tied with a double knot. The wound is to be dressed as in the previous case with adhesive plaster and compress, but without a bandage; and the patient is to be placed in bed, with his knee bent forward, or resting on the outside, if more agreeable to him. The operation is done in this manner on that part of the femoral artery which is not covered by muscle, and all inter- ference with the sartorius is avoided. It is the improvement on the Hunterian operation recommended by Scarpa, and ought always to be adopted. This method obviates all discus- sion as to placing the ligature on the outside of the sartorius muscle, or as to the fear of injuring the absorbents; as to the saphena vein, it can always be seen, and its course traced up the thigh and avoided. After the first incision has been made and completed down to the fascia lata, that part is to be divided to the extent of two inches, but this must be dependent on circumstances; the object being to obtain a view of the sheath containing the artery, the opening into which after the first touch of the knife, may be completed with the assistance of the director underneath it; the artery will be less disturbed in its lateral attachments by an opening into the sheath of three-quarters of an inch in length, than by one of half the extent, as it will admit of the aneurism needle being passed under it with more facility, and consequently with less disturbance to the surrounding parts. There is no reason to believe that a free opening into the fascia of the thigh has ever done mischief, or even one made in the sheath, provided the artery has not been unnecessarily disturbed. The warmth of the limb operated upon should be maintained by gentle friction from the toes upwards to the knee; when left at rest it should be enveloped in flannel. The wound should not be dressed until the fourth day, the limb being kept quite quiet; the patient should move as little as possible in bed, and the part of the heel on which it rests should be examined from time to time, as it may under pres- sure become gangrenous. Suppression of the secretion of urine is not uncommon