143 Oases for Immediate Amputation. 148. If the ball should enter and be flattened against the bone without breaking it, and lodge against it or in the soft parts, it should be sought for and removed. "When the ball is flattened and the bone broken, it may lie between the broken extremities, and even lodge in one of them, rendering the case more complicated, and the necessity for close investiga- tion more urgent. 149. When a ball strikes the shaft of a bone, such as the femur, directly and with force, it shatters it often in large, long, and pointed pieces, retaining their attachment to the muscles inserted into them. A fracture of this nature in the middle of the thigh will often extend downwards into the condyles, and as high as, although rarely into the trochanters. These are cases for immediate amputation. 150. Gun-shot fractures of the head and neck of the femur have been hitherto fatal injuries, unless the whole extremity has been removed. It is hoped death may be prevented without this most formidable operation, by the removal of the head and neck of the bone, as by aphorism 85. If the upper third of the femur, below the trochanter, be badly fractured, and an attempt be made to save the limb, death generally occurs after several weeks of intense suffering. Few escape with a useful limb, when it has been badly fractured in the middle part, their strength and health being destroyed by the pain, suppuration, and constitutional irritation which ensue. The least dangerous and the most likely to be saved, are fractures of the lower third, or at most the lower half of the thigh-bone; when they do not communicate with the knee- joint, an attempt ought always to be made to save them. 151. The preservation of a femur fractured by a musket- ball, when splintered to any extent, ought only to be attempted if the principal splinters can be removed. When the splinters of the femur are long and large, it has been supposed that if they retain their attachments to the soft parts, they may be placed in apposition and preserved. It ought, however, only to be attempted under the most favourable circumstances, and will not often even then succeed. In the humerus it is differ- ent. An examination by the finger, in the first instance, is necessary to ascertain the extent of the injury to the bone, and