508 Glands of Brunner, Grew, and Peyer. spheroidal or glandular epithelium; it is therefore presumed that the gastric juice is secreted by the tubes, the mucus by the follicles. The tubes differ in the middle and lower parts of the stomach, by being longer or more deeply-seated, and more numerous as they approach the pylorus, showing, in all probability, a difference of function between the upper and middle, and the pyloric, or lower extremity of the organ. The intestines are supplied with glands, not apparently for the purposes of absorption, but of secretion; these require at- tention. They are the duodenal of Brunner, the agminated of our countryman, Nehemiah Grew, and of Peyer, and the solitary, which are found in the lower part of the small, and in the whole course of the large intestines. The glands of Brunner are situated at the commencement of the duodenum, within an inch of the pylorus, and are not visi- ble until the serous and muscular coats have been removed from ■without. They appear to the naked eye like the little white eggs of an insect. Under the microscope each little gland is found to be lobulated, very much resembling a small portion of a salivary gland or pancreas, each lobule having an ex- cretory duct, which unites with those from other globules to form one larger one opening on the mucous surface of the bowel. The lobules themselves are made up of vesicles, within which the secretory cells are discernible. The agminated glands of Grew and of Peyer, by the latter of whom they were more minutely described, occur in oval patches at irregular distances throughout the jejunum and ileum, and are situated on the side immediately opposite the part where the mesentery is united to the bowel. Each gland resembles somewhat a Florence oil-flask in shape, the small end or mouth, which is more or less pointed, projecting through amongst the villi or the follicles. They are composed of cells, supplied by capillary vessels, which Mr. Quekett says have the peculiarity of being unsupported by areolar tissue, and are termed by him in consequence naked. These are the glands which are found more or less diseased after phthisis and fevers which have terminated fatally. The oval form of the patches is retained, although considerably raised above the general surface of the mucous membrane, and when