Illustrative Cases. 333 the right side, became comatose and died. On examination, the inner table was found broken, separated from the diploe, and driven through the membranes into the brain, which was at that part soft, yellow, and in a state of suppuration. Mr. B., of the 29 th regiment, when in Halifax, Nova Scotia, was struck in a drunken frolic on the anterior part of the left parietal bone, with his own sword, which was a straight heavy one; and a wound about two inches long was made in the side of his head through the bone. His little finger was much cut at the same time, and it was not until the finger had been dressed that I was asked to look at the head, which he declared had nothing the matter with it. He was vomited, and purged, and the next morning bled, and as symptoms of inflammation of the membranes of the brain came on, or increased, the bleed- ings were repeated, the quantity taken at each time being gradually diminished. He lost 250 ounces of blood in five days, after which he gradually, although slowly recovered, some small spiculte of bone coming away during the cure. Returning to England, the vessel was taken off the Scilly Islands, and he was sent to Verdun, where he remained several years, until liberated by the peace of 1814, when he rejoined his regiment, which had served in the Peninsula, and had re- turned to North America. It was soon found that he became outrageous on drinking a very little wine, and was odd in his manner, and had a great propensity to set out walking for hoars without apparently knowing what he was about, or where he was going. When his regiment came immediately in front of the enemy, he was found going over to their lines, without being aware of what he was doing; and he was at last obliged to be sent to England, having evidently become de- ranged. This gentleman has been ever since confined in a private mad-house. His brother offered to allow the bone to be removed; but after thirty years of derangement a recovery could not be expected. If the examination I have since learned to be proper in such cases, had been made at the time, the inner table of the bone would have been found broken and depressed; and he might now have been in health, both of body and mind. I removed, in Lisbon, in the hospital appropriated to the