367 A presumed came of Concussion. generally, as to be desirous of seeking relief by an operation, at the risk of life. These injuries are often accompanied during their progress by mental defects which time does not always remove. The memory is very often much impaired; it is frequently defec- . tive as to things as well as to persons. The sight of one or both eyes may be impaired, or even lost. Ptosis, or a falling of the upper lid, is not an uncommon, although a more curable defect. Speech is not only difficult, but the power of uttering certain words is often lost; a language is occasionally for a time forgotten, and a sort of conventional one has even been adopted, under my own observation. The more serious evils which befall these unfortunate sufferers, are aberrations of mind, rendering some degree of restraint necessary, or a state of fatuity, which is not less distressing. These intellectual defects are often accompanied by various states of lameness or debility, from which there is but little hope of recovery. Pathologists have supposed that concussion of the brain is frequently accompanied by, and may, indeed, be essentially dependent on small extravasations of blood in various parts of or throughout the brain, not larger than the point or head of a small pin, constituting, in fact, a derangement, which, when general, is destructive of life, and when partial may be some- times the cause of the various defects which follow injuries of the head. 288. It is an interesting fact that a person who has been shot in the head, or has fallen from the top of a house, so as to become insensible, has no knowledge of the circumstance; and when, after several days or weeks, ho regains his senses, he has no recollection of the injury, or of having received the wound; or if he should have fallen from a height, he only remembers that he was aware he was about to fall, but of the actual descent or the injury he knows nothing. 289. The trephine, which is worked by turning the hand, and makes therefore only a half turn, necessarily saws unequally; but the operator has the advantage of being able to press with it on any particular part as the sawing of the bone draws to a close, and can thus cut any portion of the bone which is thicker than the rest without wounding the dura mater. The division