Symptoms of concussion and compression combined. 347 may pass away under further moderate depletion; but in an adult any undue delay in giving the necessary relief by the removal of the depressed portion of bone, -will in general be destructive to the patient. It is the irritation caused by the depressed bone on the dura mater, and communicated to the brain, -which gives rise to the unfavourable symptoms, and to the formation of matter which follows them. A gentleman received a blow on the side of the head, which knocked him down and deprived him of his senses, from which state he partially recovered, and vomited; some stupefaction, however, remained, although he could be made to answer by a little importunity. Pulse 62, irregular, breathing slow, the pupils contracting under the influence of light; the integu- ments where the blow was received were soft and swollen, in all probability from an extravasation of blood beneath. The next day the pulse was full and regular, the pupils were dilated, vomiting had taken place several times, and the patient answered correctly on being sharply questioned. He was bled largely, purgatives were administered, and cold was steadily applied to the head. He was bled the next day, and on the third the left arm became paralytic, the pupils continued dilated, and on the fifth day paralysis implicated the left leg as well as the arm. There could now be no doubt that the brain was suffering from compression; but as the nerves of the excito-motory system were unaffected, and the functions of ingestion and egestion were satisfactorily accomplished, it was thought advisable to trust to the efforts of nature. The swelling of the scalp was painful. A week afterwards the general symptoms were the same, or only slightly augmented by fever; but as the swelling of the scalp was more painful, it was opened, and a quantity of matter was evacuated, the bone beneath being fractured and depressed. As this operation gave some relief, it was thought advisable to wait, with the hope that the benefit thus obtained might prove permanent. The patient did not, however, im- prove; and as the symptoms of fever increased, and were accompanied at last by rigors and great pain in the head, the depressed portions of bone were removed, and about half an ounce of purulent matter escaped from between the dura