Ligature of the Plantar Arteries. 2G8 The external plantar artery, from the point of division, takes a course curved towards the heel to the metatarsal hone of the little toe, which is prominent, being a distance of about three inches, during which course it is covered by the integu- ments, lateral ligament of the joint, a quantity of granular fat, the thick plantaris fascia, the origin of the abductor of the great toe, and the flexor brevis of the other toes. The artery may then be felt and seen near the os calcis, having the nerve and vein to the inner side; and lying on the acces- sorius muscle and its fascia, at the depth, in ordinary cases, of about an inch and a half. If wounded in this part of its course, and the bleeding cannot be commanded by well-regulated pressure on the artery behind the ankle, at the spot in- jured, the parts enumerated are to be divided in succession until the wounded artery is brought into view, and two liga- tures can be placed upon it. The external plantar artery, on reaching the metatarsal bone of the little toe, runs forward, in nearly a straight line, between the middle and outer divisions of the plantar fascia, the section of which will expose it as far forwards as the end of the metatarsal bone. 229. The anterior tibial artery is to be tied at that part of its course at which it may be wounded. When the operation is done for aneurism, it should be performed a short distance above the tumour, and sometimes a second operation below it will become necessary. If the aneurism should be situated so high up, and so close to the origin of the vessel, as not to admit of a ligature being applied anterior to the interosseous ligament, it may be placed on the femoral artery in the thigh, and the result awaited. If it appeared likely to succeed at first, and yet the pulsation returned, the artery should be tied below the tumour, because the return of pulsation would probably depend on the blood regurgitating into the vessel. In order to tie the anterior tibial artery after it has passed from the back to the fore part of the leg, through the inter- osseous space, and over the interosseous ligament, and for one-third of its descent towards the instep; draw a line from the head of the fibula to the base of the great toe, which will nearly describe its course. An incision four inches in length