438 Illustrative Cases. thorisej the introduction of this instrument will give the desired information on the one hand, and do little or no harm on the other. A soldier of the third regiment of infantry was wounded by a lance at the battle of Albuhera, in the left side, between the fifth and sixth ribs, and was tbrown down, bleeding from the mouth and from the wound, which was afterwards closed by his comrades, by confining upon it a piece of his shirt folded up for the purpose. Brought to the hospital, at the village of Valverde, he appeared ten days afterwards to be dying from difficulty of breathing. On enlarging the opening in the integuments, a quantity of blood, partly fluid, partly coagulated, issued from the cavity of the chest. The wound was kept open to allow the discharge of this, and of a red- dish watery fluid, which, after a few days, became purulent. At the end of three weeks, I sent him to Elvas, doing well, and with but little discharge from the wound. A heavy dragoon, of the German Legion, was wounded at the battle of Salamanca by a sword, which penetrated the cavity of the right side of the chest, between the sixth and seventh ribs. He fell from his horse and lost a con- siderable quantity of blood from the mouth and from the wound. On examining the wound next day, a black coagulum was seen filling up the orifice, the cellular mem- brane around being considerably ecchymosed, and little doubt existed that the oppression in breathing under which he laboured was caused by blood effused into the cavity. On separating the edges of the wound with a director, several ounces of blood, half-fluid, half-coagulated, were evacuated by making the external opening, which was enlarged, quite de- pendent. The lung was then seen in contact with the external opening of the wound, having expanded as the pressure of the blood was removed from it. The wound was closed simply, by lint, compress, and adhesive plaster, without bandage; the man was largely bled, and placed upon his wounded side on the ground, being the most comfortable position, in some degree relieved from the oppression in breathing. Two days after, the wound discharged freely a reddish-coloured watery fluid, evidently from the cavity of the chest, the exit of which was