400 Typhoid Pneumonia. As soon as the inflammatory action has subsided, the lightest farinaceous nourishment, gradually augmented by the addition of broths, jellies, eggs, fish, aud lastly of animal food, should be substituted. The temperature of the room ought to be moderate and equal. Inflammation of the lungs frequently terminates by the de- position of a white or lateritious sediment in the urine, which is considered a critical evacuation, not however to be relied upon, unless accompanied by a remission of the important symptoms. A moderate diarrhoea and a profuse perspiration are also signs of a favourable crisis. 312. Inflammation of the chest has been hitherto considered as accompanied by inflammatory fever as an essential character, but this is by no means always the case. In large cities, and amongst troops, after hard service, in which they have been subjected to much privation, and in certain epidemics, the accompanying fever often partakes of a low or typhoid cha- racter, and becomes infinitely more dangerous. This modifica- tion of disease I have known from my earliest years, in different climates, in all of which it proved most fatal. It is a disease formed of a local inflammation accompanied by general symp- toms of a low asthenic type of fever, combined with those of marked derangement of the stomacb, intestines, or liver, as shown by a dry black, or red black, or brown tongue, offensive breath, diarrhoea, vomiting of a dark-coloured or greenish fluid, watery or sanious expectoration, great thirst, headache, a feeble and quick pulse, low delirium,and great prostration of strength. It was marked, on the banks of the Guadiana, by the discharge of lumbrici by the mouth and by the anus. This disease has always appeared to arise from peculiar circumstances, and to disappear when they ceased to exist; such as great privations and exposure to cold and fatigue, the use of ardent spirits with- out sufficient food, bad air, or other depressing causes. It is sometimes epidemic. The fever is typhoid, the local inflamma- tion latent, and the symptoms of it masked. It may be com- plicated with inflammation of the stomach and intestines; it may occur in cases of erysipelas, or after wounds or injuries attended with large secretions of purulent matter, or other complaints. Whilst the symptoms of low fever are general