314 Effects of a Rupture of the Viscera. A child, just able to walk, was placed under my care in the Westminster Hospital, in consequence of its having received some injury on the side of the belly, from having been tossed up into the air by its father, with his right hand, and caught in its descent in the crutch formed by the thumb and fingers of the left, on the thumb of which it unfortunately at last fell; this caused the child great pain, which was soon followed by considerable swelling and inflammation of the belly, of which it died. On examination after death, the small intestine was discovered to have been ruptured by the end of the thumb, from which extravasation of its contents into the abdomen had ensued. The first effect of a rupture of the intestine must be the extravasation of such gas as may be contained in, or secreted from it, giving rise to the sudden swelling, as well as to the sudden effusion of part of its contents, but which from the support of continuity, and of the general pressure of the abdominal parietes, is perhaps more gradually poured out. The rapid tension and swelling of the belly is perhaps, then, a distinguishing symptom of a rupture of the intestines. A Spanish soldier was brought to me, near the conclusion of the battle of Toulouse, in consequence of having been struck obliquely by a cannon-shot on the right side of the abdomen and back, which appeared to be badly bruised, although no abrasion of the skin had taken place. The shock was great however; he was unable to move his limbs, and appeared likely to die, which he did in fact in the course of the night, having passed bloody urine, but without any reac- tion having taken place. On making an incision through the skin, which was then quite a blue-black, although not torn, all the soft parts were found reduced to a state approaching to the appearance of jelly; the spine was injured, the right kidney ruptured, and the cavity of the abdomen full of blood. A soldier of the 40th Regiment was struck by a ricochet cannon-shot, on the last day of the siege of Ciudad Rodrigo. He saw the ball, which destroyed his left fore-arm, so as to render amputation necessary, strike the ground a little dis- tance from him, before he was himself injured. He thought from the sort of shock he had received, that it had also struck