/ Trephine at different periods. 335 or time to do the operation. I do not hesitate to say the first, believing the violence to be greater when done on parts' already in a state of inflammation, than when they are sound. When the inner table has pierced the membranes and gone into the brain itself, the individual will in most cases ulti- mately die miserably of the accident if not relieved by art. It is less safe to let him designedly run the certain risk of cerebral irritation, which when once excited is often indomit- able, than to remove the cause, and endeavour to prevent the evil. If the'cerebral irritation only manifested its effects on the surface of the dura mater by causing suppuration there, delay might be admitted; but as it usually gives rise under these circumstances to the formation of matter on the surface, and even in the substance of the brain, where it is deadly] " la chirurgie expectante" cannot be allowed. Lastly, there is' not more danger of a hernia cerebri, as has been supposed, when the operation is done early, than when it is done at a later period; on the contrary, the patient has a much better chance of escape from hernia cerebri, and from all other evil, when the local and the general treatment are decided, and efficient. If, on attempting to remove a fragment buried in the brain, serious convulsive movements should be excited, it would be proper to desist from all further attempts to extract the splinters, until the brain has become-more quiescent. It is necessary to recollect that the brain appears to be insensible, or nearly so, when first exposed; and it has rarely occurred that a serious convulsion or anything beyond vomit- ing should take place on the removal of a piece of bone from the brain; nor will any difficulty be found in removing such small fragments as can be seen, with a pair of forceps duly adapted for the purpose. It is impossible to say at what period of time the brain may become irritable, and no longer admit of being touched without convulsive movements ensuing; but when this state of irritation has commenced, and its existence ia proclaimed by the excitement which takes place on touching the fragment of bone, the surgeon should at once desist from all attempts to remove the foreign body. The brain under ordinary circumstances is much more