Amputation of the Foot. 106 formed witli advantage, care being taken to make the under flap so large that the line of cicatrization may be on the upper and anterior edge of the stump, rather than transversely across the face of it, in order to render it firmer, and better able to resist and sustain any pressure which may be applied to it. The limb beiDg placed on the table, and held by an assis- tant, the surgeon ascertains the situation of the joint formed by the junction of the astragalus with the scaphoides, which will be indicated by the prominence on the inside of the tarsus, discoverable by passing the finger forwards from the malleolus internus towards the side of the great toe. The joint of the os cuboides with the os calcis on the outside, is always to be found about half an inch behind the projection formed by the posterior part of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. The under part of the foot being firmly held in the palm of the surgeon's hand, he places the point of the thumb on the external joint, and that of the forefinger over the internal one; these indicate a transverse oblique line for the first incision, which should commence near the thumb, and be continued with a semilunar sweep, the convexity towards the toes, until it terminates at the side of the foot, where the forefinger was placed. The joint between the astragalus and scaphoides is now to be opened, by directing the knife from within obliquely outwards towards the pro- jection of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. These bones are then to be dislocated by pressure, and the ligaments re- taining them divided. The joint between the os cuboides and the os calcis is next to be opened from without inwards, and the bones dislocated. The strong inter-articular ligament being cut, and the joint largely opened, the knife is to be passed between the under surfaces of the scaphoides and cuboides, and the soft parts adhering to them, and a flap cut from behind forwards sufliciently large to cover the wound, which is then to be dressed in the usual manner. 99. Mr.Wakley, jun., has lately performed a successful ope- ration for the removal of the astragalus and calcis, deserving of imitation in peculiar cases. A description of the opera- tion is given in a report written by Mr. Weeden Cooke, the house-surgeon of the Royal Free Hospital, and published in The Lancet for July 1, 1848. It is as follows:—