400 Case of Mr. Drummond- second rib, then passed through the lung, and went out behind in nearly a straight line, close to the spine. Left on the field of battle for five days before he was brought to Brussels, he was nearly dead with difficulty of breathing, and other symp- toms of inflammation, from which he recovered in the course of the next ten days, under repeated bleedings and the strictest antiphlogistic regimen. At the end of this time, when apparently doing well, an accession of inflammation and of all his bad symptoms took place, destroying him at the end of four weeks from the receipt of the injury. On dis- section the lung was found adherent to the chest by false membranes of some thickness, with a quantity of purulent fluid in the cavity. The track of the ball was in a suppurating state, and two pieces of rib were found in the centre of its course. The whole of the lung appeared to be filled with a sero-purulent fluid, which could be readily squeezed out. John Roth, of the 5th battalion of the 60th Eegt., aged twenty-nine, had been wounded by two balls, one on the 10th April, 1814, at the battle of Toulouse, which grazed the left temporal bone; the other had gone through the upper part of the right chest, in the Pyrenees, the autumn before. Both wounds had healed. He was seized on the 8th of May, after a little intemperance, with pains in his body and joints, pain in the chest, and cough, with bloody expectoration, skin hot, tongue foul, and bowels confined. On the 9th he was bled, and purged by calomel, antimony, and salts. On the 10th symptoms augmented, pulse 120, small, and wandering, but no pain in the head. Repeat the medicines. Head shaved and cold applied; bleeding to ten ounces. 11th. Every symptom increased; great pain on touching the chest; pulse 126; skin hot. On the 12th, passed his urine and faeces involuntarily; and on the 13th he died, his body being covered by petechia?. The head, on examination, showed pus under the dura mater, at and behind the situation of the wound he had re- ceived. The right lung adhered to the walls of the chest where the ball had entered and passed out, the track made by it being very visible, indurated, and inflamed, from the last attack: the parts otherwise sound; no fluid in the cavity. Mr. Drummond was wounded by a pistol-ball in the back,