Structure of Intestine. 505 of the large intestines being still smoother than any part of the small, although, in the colon, large pouches or cells are formed by a peculiar arrangement of the muscular coat. These valves never extend completely round the inside of the intes- tine, and rarely more than half or two-thirds, although they sometimes bifurcate. They have a velvety appearance, which has obtained for this coat the name of villous as well as that of mucous. Valvule conniventes are peculiar to man; none exist in the ourang-outang or chimpanzee. In the frog there are valvular folds, appearing, at first sight, like the valvulse conniventes of the human subject; but on a careful examination, they are found to be mere elevations, without villi. In the tortoise there are similar folds, running, however, in a longitudinal or opposite direction. In the rhinoceros the mucous membrane is raised up into villiform processes, somewhat like the valvulaj conniventes, or large villi- but they are not villi, as each pro- cess is covered with other projections, which really are villi A valvula connivens consists of two layers of mucous mem- brane and sub-mucous tissue, but the muscular coat is not con- tinued into it. 373. When examined microscopically, the velvety appearance is found to consist of innumerable small processes which have been called villi, each villus being composed principally of a very thin transparent basement or germinal membrane, forming a sheath or case, enclosing within it an artery, a vein, a capil- lary plexus, and an absorbent vessel termed lacteal. A nerve has not been discovered, although it is presumed to exist. These villi are longest in the duodenum, and gradually dimmish in number and in size from A to ^ of an inch. Between these villi or projections, holes or openings are observable, termed the follicles of Lieberkuhn, who first de- scribed them; they resemble inverted villi, being m some in- stances as deep as the villi are long. Unlike the villi, they are found throughout the intestines. The villi in every part, in common with all mucous membranes, are covered and the follicles are lined by epithelium, which in this in-' stance is the columnar, situated on the basement membrane each column being attached by its parietal extremity. A layer x x