581 Operation required. D d d 2 419. Surgery in such, or in nearly similar cases, requires a catheter or staff to he passed down the urethra as far as it will go, when an incision should be made upon it, as in the lateral operation for the stone, or across the perineum, until the finger rests upon the wounded parts, when, in all probability, a straight catheter can be carried through them into the bladder. The urine will then have a direct passage outwards, instead of coming indirectly from the bladder by the wounds. If the straight catheter cannot be passed, which can scarcely occur, the incision is to be continued from the point of obstruction into the bladder, guided by the finger in the rectum. A free opening from the bladder offers the only hope of safetj\ 420. The rectum may be wounded without any other organ being injured within the pelvis; of this I have seen several instances. Captain Gordon, of the nav}', was struck by a rifle- ball towards the lower part of one side of the sacrum, after being knocked down by one he had received on the head, and by another in the neck and back. The ball which passed into the rectum made its exit on the opposite side of the sacrum, andstercoraceous matters were evacuated by both wounds. The pain was severe; the limbs were deprived of much of their power of motion, and the next day the bladder was incapable of expelling its contents. This was relieved by the catheter, and the rectum was kept clear by warm mild enemata, whilst the inflammatory symptoms were subdued by bleeding, opium, starvation, and rest. At the end of three months he was able to walk, but with some difficulty, on account of defective power in one leg. Some small pieces of bone came away and the wounds closed, although he was subject to an occasional slight opening of the orifice of entrance, from which a little matter was discharged, when it again closed. He remained more or less lame until his death, which took place with the loss of the ship he commanded in a hurricane, on the coast of North America. A French soldier was wounded at the battle of Salamanca by a ball, which entered by the side of the sacrum and lodged. Having been rode over and bruised, he was taken prisoner and brought to me on the field of the battle. From this wound he suffered comparatively little, except from a