558 Wounds of the Stomach. and upper surface, and do not penetrate both sides, in which case effusion into the cavity of the abdomen, and consequent inflammation, can scarcely fail to ensue. It is fortunate for the patient, when they occur, that the stomach should be empty. If it should not be so, the contents may possibly be ejected shortly after the receipt of the wound, but it is not advisable to excite vomiting by remedies, or means adapted for that purpose. In a perfectly quiescent state, the general compression of the contents of the abdomen by its walls may prevent effusion under ordinary circumstances, and this state should be maintained as rigidly as possible. The apparent course of the wound indicates the probable mischief, which is especially confirmed by vomiting of blood, great anxiety, de- pression of countenance, a cold, clammy skin, pain in the part, hiccough, and by a discharge of the contents of the stomach, if the wound be sufficiently open to allow it; pulse low, and sometimes intermittent. If effusion of the contents of the stomach should not occur, the external wound, if an incised one, should be closed by suture, aud the patient kept in the utmost state of quietude, in an elevated position, the abdominal muscles being relaxed. Neither food nor drink should enter the stomach, although thirst should be allayed by wetting the tongue and mouth. The bowels should be re- lieved by enemata, and the belly fomented. Bleeding and leeching, as frequently repeated as the symptoms appear to require, must be carried to the greatest extent that can be permitted with safety. When the external wound is so large as to enable the wounded stomach to be seen, the cut edges of the wound in it should be brought together by the continuous suture, as in the intestines; and the external wound should be closed in a similar manner, the end of the ligature on the wound of the stomach being cut off close to the stomach, and that organ being left perfectly free, with the hope that the thread will be carried into its cavity, whilst the outside adheres to the peritoneum opposed to it. When the stomach pours its contents through an external opening, too small to allow of its being examined, it is de- sirable that the wound be enlarged, if a doubt be entertained