Illustrative Cases. 353 freely. One perforation was made by the trephine, and the whole of the detached and depressed pieces of bone, which were of considerable size, were removed, one of them having penetrated the dura mater.—15th. Has less pain in the head; pulse full and slow; pupils dilated, with a tendency to coma' but he is sensible when spoken to. V.S. ad |xxiv. Continue the purgatives.—18th. Is less drowsy; pupils more contracted. The surface of the dura mater is sloughy, and a small, dark- coloured excrescence is rising up through the opening in the cranium.-22nd. The fungus cerebri has considerably increased m size during the last few days; in other respects he is doing well.—24th. The wound looks clean; the discharge is healthy. The fungus increases in size, and is rather above the edges of the wound; some sloughs have separated from it, and it has now a red and tolerably clean appearance.—26th. The wound granulates regularly; the excrescence seems to enlarge rather at the base than at the upper part; it was touched slightly with lunar caustic without any pain or unpleasant symptom being produced.—30th. Continues doing well. The pupils are still somewhat dilated, but contract readily on the admission of light; appetite good; bowels regular; and the patient says he has no complaint. Discharge from the wound healthy • the fungus is prevented from increasing by a slight application of the argentum nitratum every second day. He has not required any medicine for some time past—May 6th. The wound has closed around the fungus, which is a little above its edges- it is touched slightly every day with lunar caustic or the sulphate of copper. The pulsation of the brain elevating and depressing the fungus,s perfectly distinct: no constitutional derangement Was discharged cured to Bordeaux. William Donaldson was admitted, on the 13th of April 1814 into the Dep6t de Mendicite Hospital, having received a, gun' shot wound in the head on the 10th of April, which fractured the right parietal bone to a considerable extent. The brain protrudes; pulse quick and small; bowels open. V.S ad -xvi — 14th. The pulsation of the brain is evident, and the protrusion increases; he complains of no particular pain; the discharge is profuse, and of a thin, black, watery quality; pulse cf0. bowels freely open. V.S. ad 3xvi. Continue the purgat ves -