10 Erysipelas Phlegmonodes. amputation at the shoulder-joint was considered a most for- midable affair, and that at the hip-joint so murderons that it ought not to be done. When I came to London at the peace of 1814,1 found every lecturer teaching these opinions, which had no foundation but in the fertility of their imaginations, then uncontrolled by practical experience. Absurd, however, as they were, and contrary to demonstrative fact, it took me many years to overcome them, so strong was the force of long- received opinions. As they are, however, overcome, and are things which no longer exist, except as matters of surgical history, I only allude to their overthrow as among the great advantages the art and science of surgery have derived from that war. Connected with the subject of mortification is that peculiar kind of inflammation which, although it often occurs spon- taneously, frequently follows injuries of all kinds: the erysipelas phlegmonodes of authors, for which, until the battle of Salamanca, in 1812, it was the practice of the surgeons of all Europe to do nothing but calmly watch the progress it made in undermining the skin of the whole limb affected, until life was often destroyed by the extensive mortification which ensued, or by the indomitable fever and affection of the brain which accompanied it in its course. Accident led me after that battle to perceive that the only effective means of relief in severe cases lay, in free incisions made into the part at an early period, according to the extent of mischief which had supervenedj which mode of practice has been invariably incul- cated in my lectures, from the year 1817. The first case of the kind I had the opportunity of treating publicly and successfully in London, on the principles I had recommended, occurred in the Westminster Hospital, of which I was one of the surgeons, in the year 1823. The example thus set was followed in St. Bartholomew's Hospital in 1825, and this practice has now become an admitted principle in surgery, of the first importance; constituting an improvement for which all mankind should be grateful, inasmuch as the disease is one of constant occurrence, and frequently followed by the most serious consequences, which are now, for the most part, happily obviated. War, with all its horrors, has in this instance been eminently serviceable in the interests of humanity.