Mortification: Constitutional and Local. 41 were considered to be unusual and improper. On the 31st, the pulse being 130, and everything indicating a fatal termi- nation, I refrained from any further consultation, although directed by the rules of the hospital; and, after my old Penin- sular fashion, made an incision eight inches long into the back of the arm; and another of five, on the under edge, in the line of the ulna, down to the fascia, which was in part divided; and one vessel bled freely. The next day, Nov. 1, the pulse was 90; the man had slept, and said he had had a good night. The incision on the back of the arm was augmented to eleven inches; and from this time he gradually recovered. This case has been the exemplar on which this most suc- cessful practice has been followed throughout the civilized world. When this kind of inflammation attacks the scrotum, which it sometimes although rarely does, as a sporadic disease, and independent of any urinary affection, incisions into it should be made with great caution and of small extent, in consequence of the loss of blood which will ensue from the great vascularity of the part. They should be confined to, and not extend beyond, the parts obviously falling into a state of slough or of mortification. 26. Mortification is the last and most fatal result of inflam- mation, although it may occur as a precursor of it in the neighbouring parts, and not as a consequence. The essential distinction is. between that which is idiopathic or constitutional and that which is local, and has not existed long enough to implicate the system at large, or to become constitutional. Idiopathic or constitutional mortification, sphacelus or gan- grene, may be humid or dry. Humid when the death of the part has been preceded by inflammation and a great deposition of fluid in it, followed by putrefaction and decomposition, as after an attack of erysipelas following an injury. It may then be said to be acute. Dry when preceded by little or no depo- sition of fluid in it, and followed by a drying, shrivelling, and hardening of the part, nearly in its natural form and shape, unless exposed to external causes usually leading to putre- faction. This, when it occurs in old persons, or in those who have lived on diseased rye or other food, may be called chronic. e 2