308 Brain, motions of. The brain is surrounded by membranes, capable of secreting a halitus or a fluid whenever it may be necessary to fill up space; it is intersected by partitions apparently for the pre- vention of jar and pressure, and is permeated in every part by vessels of various sizes, both venous and arterial. It has been presumed that it contains at all times the same quantity, or nearly the same quantity of blood, in consequence of its free- dom from atmospheric pressure, through the intervention of the bones of the skull. If this conjecture be correct, the quantity cannot be materially increased, unless something be displaced to make room for the addition, nor can it be essen- tially diminished without something being added to supply its place. The question turns, however, very much on the words "materially increased or diminished;" for a very small addi- tional quantity may be the cause of serious mischief, and the subtraction of even less may give rise to great cerebral dis- turbance ; but there can be little doubt that the actual quan- tity contained in the head is less at one time than at another; the deficiency being usually on the side of the arteries; when congestion takes place, it is for the most part venous. When a person is about to faint on the first passage of a catheter through the urethra, the blood deserts his face, he feels sick, his pulse nearly ceases, and he would faint if he were allowed to remain in the erect position. Let his head now be bent down between his knees for a minute; his face fills with blood, his brain does the same, and he recovers almost imme- diately. Young ladies, when about to faint, are prevented from doing it by these means being adopted, which they declare nevertheless to be very unladylike, although they may be doctorial. r 254. The motions of the brain covered by the dura mater are but little observable under ordinary circumstances when a circular portion of bone has been removed by the trephine ; the surface of the dura mater remains in general perfectly level ; it is of a reddish silvery colour, and is firmly attached to the cut edge of the bone. The surface is raised, however, on a full expiration, and it falls on a deep inspiration. Fluid secreted or placed upon it is seen to move synchronously with the pulse; but the dura mater never rises up into the hole made