Medical Treatment of Compound Fractures. 149 smaller size, and the more ready exposure of the bone or bones when badly broken, the danger is less. If an artery should yield by ulceration, it should be laid bare by operation, and a ligature placed on each bleeding end. An additional or second wound in the fore-arm only complicates the case, and the loss of a finger or two does not augment the danger. In fact, amputation should rarely take place in the first in- stance; and only in the second when mortification has com- menced, or the strength and health of the patient will no longer bear the drain upon them. A great advantage is de- rived from the facility with which the upper extremity can be supported, when compared with the lower; and the aid to the general health which may be obtained from the locomotion sufferers with broken arms are capable of under- going. 160. In making incisions for the removal of splinters of bone, both at an early and at a late period, and particularly in the latter, when the soft parts are all impacted together, and nothing is gained beyond what is cut, the course of the trunks of nerves, as well as of the great arteries, should be carefully attended to, and these parts avoided; for a successful cure of the fracture will be much deteriorat ed in value, if accompanied by a loss of motion and sensation in the hand or fingers. 161. Splints for the arm should be made of solid materials, although light; some a little hollowed, and at a right angle, to correspond with the bend of the arm, and to admit of a little motion of the radius and of the fore arm and hand, which relieves the position, is more comfortable for the suflPerer, and tends to prevent stiffness of the elbow. The pads of lining for the splints should be made of cleaned or carded wool, rather than of tow or old linen, protected by some one or other of the modern modifications of caoutchouc. 162. The medical treatment of compound fractures should be directed to allay pain and to prevent, as far as possible, any excess of general irritation and fever; to sustain, at a subsequent period, the strength of the sufferer, by appropriate medicines, good and sufficient diet, and a free circulation of air, without all which little can be expected, to say nothing of o 2