State of Surgery before and since the Peninsular War. 5 termed, did nothing for the advancement of British surgery. The war of the American rebellion did, if possible, less; and the French revolutionary war in Flanders was not more fortunate. The campaigns in Egypt, and in Holland, at the Helder, added nothing to our knowledge; and at the com- mencement of the war in Portugal, in 1808, there was little to depend upon but the opinions of Mr. Hunter and of Mr. J. Bell. Mr. Hunter had served for a few weeks, in 1761, at the siege of Belleisle; and it was much to be regretted that his opportunities were not sufficiently numerous to enable him to draw such inferences from them as would have left but little to desire. The greater part of what he did leave was, from this cause, not found to accord with the observations made by his successors; whilst the prestige attached to his name was so great, as much to impede their progress on many essential points. Mr. John Bell had not the same opportunity of seeing an enemy, even at a distance, as was enjoyed by Mr. Hunter; and less reliance could be placed upon many of the recommendations of a man of the greatest ability, which were not supported by practical experience. They were found, therefore, on many points, to be indefensible. The confidence placed in the opinions of these, two of the greatest surgeons of the last century, was nevertheless so great, that it has cost me the labour of seven campaigns and thirty years of teaching, to overcome all those which were erroneous. I may say, in the words of ancient chivalry, that, with lance in rest, I have challenged, during that long period, all opponents. It is only, however, during the last year I could have ventured to add, I have overcome all opposition; and that the principles and the practice of the surgery of that war, as developed in the records I have published, are admitted by all to be, in the present state of our knowledge, correct. That they admit of many additions and improvements, I am aware; and I shall draw your attention to some suggestions, if not directions, which I hope to see, or to believe will be hereafter carried out. It was, then, with the perception and the knowledge of required improvements, that I said, in addressing the junior officers of the medical department of the army, in the preface to my last work, on Injuries of the Chest,—" Follow implicitly B2