126 Excision of the Elbow-joint. the fingers and thumb of the left hand, and by drawing them backwards during the time the knife is entering at the mid- point and being carried across the limb. Having formed the posterior flap, the anterior one is formed as in amputation of the thigh, by cutting inwards from the surface towards the bone with a sweep, which will make this flap equal in length to the posterior. The operation is completed by dividing the remaining soft parts by means of a cut carried circularly around the bone, and by sawing the bone in the line of division. The after-treatment is the same as in the thigh. 122. Excision of the elbow-joint.—An incised wound into the elbow-joint, of moderate extent, cutting off with it a part of the condyle of the humerus, or the head of the radius, or a part of the ulna, demands the removal of the injured piece of bone only. The fore-arm should be bent, and the antiphlogistic treatment fully carried out. A ball fracturing the olecranon, or other portion of a single bone, although opening into the joint, does not immediately require any operation. If a ball should lodge in the lower part of the humerus, or in either of its condyles, it should be removed, if necessary, by the trephine, or other appropriate instrument. When the articulating ends of the humerus, radius, and ulna are wholly or in part injured by a musket-ball, it was formerly the custom to amputate the arm in such instances of great mischief—an operation which should be superseded by that of excision of the joint, by which the fore-arm will be saved, and considerable use of it retained. To perform this operation, a straight, strong-pointed knife is to be pushed into the joint behind, immediately above but close to the olecranon process, and exactly at its inner edge, to avoid the ulnar nerve, which lies between it and the inner condyle, to which it may be considered to be affixed. The incision thus begun is to be carried outwardly to the external part of the humerus, dividing the insertion of the triceps. At each end of this transverse cut an incision is to be made upwards and downwards for about two inches each way, the three resembling the letter H- The flaps thus made being turned up and down, the olecranon should be sawn across,