229 Treatment of this Mortification. indeed, no one expected anything but his dissolution. When the line of separation had formed, he was evidently unequal to undergo the operation of amputation, to make a good stump, ■without great risk, and the dead parts were therefore merely separated for the sake of cleanliness and comfort. Experience has demonstrated in too many cases of the kind, that the formal operation of amputation at this time, as recommended by most modern surgeons, would in all probability have cost him his life. The application of the disinfecting liquids now in use, such as the chlorides of lime, sodium, and zinc, removes in a great degree the intolerable odour, which renders the room of the sufferer unbearable, and essentially interferes with his amend- ment. Incisions should be made into the dead parts, to allow of the evacuation of the fluids contained within them, whilst the parts themselves may be removed from time to time; so that when the period arrives at which an amputation is con- sidered advisable, the bones, if of the leg, may be sawn through at or below the line of separation, and nearly the whole of the mortified soft parts removed, so as to leave little of those which are dead and offensive. This operation is done without the patient feeling it, gives rise to no irritation, incon- venience, or danger; Nature is not interfered with in her operations, and in due time the parts which remain are sepa- rated and fall off, leaving a stump more or less good, but which will always bear the application of a wooden leg; and thus save the knee-joint,—a saving of no small importance to the patient. 197. The following cases may be considered conclusive on some of the points in question:— A private of the 5th division of infantry received a wound at the battle of Salamanca, from a musket-ball, which passed across the back part of the right leg, from above downwards and inwards. It entered about two inches below and behind the head of the fibula, and passed out near the inner edge of the tibia. There was little blood lost at the time, and it was considered to be a simple wound; eight days after the injury, some blood flowed with the discharge; this increased during the night, and on examining the limb on the morning of the x