80 Amputation by the Circular Incision. and the trochanter, and carried obliquely downwards and backwards, so as to form a shorter flap behind than has been made before. 81. Amputation by the circular incision is to be done in the following manner:—When a tourniquet is used, the pad should be firm and narrow, and carefully held directly over the artery, while the ends of the bandage in which it is contained are pinned together. The strap of the tourniquet is then to be put round the limb, the instrument itself being directly over the pad, with the screw entirely free; the strap is then to be drawn tight, and buckled on the outside, so as to prevent its slipping, and yet not interfering with the screw. Should the screw require to be turned more than half its number of turns, the strap is not sufficiently tight, or the pad has not been well applied. The patient being placed on a table at a convenient height, the assistants are carefully to retract the integuments upwards, and put them on the stretch downwards, by which means their division is more easily and regularly accomplished. The surgeon, standing on the outside, passes his hand under the thigh, and round above quite to the out- side, and there he begins his incision with the heel of the knife, and with a quick, steady movement, carries it round the thigh until the circular division of the skin, cellular membrane, and fascia has been completed. The skin cannot be sufficiently retracted unless the fascia be divided, and as the division of the skin is certainly the most painful part of the operation, it ought never to be done by two incisions, when the largest thigh can most readily and speedily be encircled by one. If the fascia should not be completely divided by the first circular in- cision, it is to be cut with the point of the knife, together with any attachment to the bone or muscles beneath. The amputating knife is then to be applied close to the retracted fascia and integuments, and the outermost muscles are to be divided by a circular incision, with any portion of the fascia that may not have equally retracted. This incision completed, the knife is immediately to be placed close to the edge of the muscular fibres which have retracted, and the remainder of the soft parts divided to the bone in the same manner. In making these two incisions, care should