186 Opposing Tlieory as to Wounded Arteries. maintained it could only succeed as a matter of accident, not of principle. 182. The essential features of the theory opposed to this with respect to wounded arteries, and called mine, are— 1st. That the artery at the wounded part is free from pre- vious disease, and may he expected to take on those healthy actions which, after the application of a ligature, lead to the obliteration of its canal, and the consequent suppression of haemorrhage. 2nd. That the circulation of the blood by the collateral branches is less free in a sound limb, than in one which has suffered during several weeks from the formation of an aneurism. 3rd. That this freedom of circulation is less in the lovier than in the upper extremity, under all circumstances. 4 th. That mortification of the foot and leg, and often of the whole limb, followed by the death of the person, is a common occurrence after a ligature has been placed high up on the artery in the thigh, in consequence of a wound; whilst it is not so common an occurrence when such operation is per- formed in the same place for an aneurism of several weeks' duration. If the vein be also wounded, mortification is almost inevitable. 5th. That mortification of the hand and arm rarely follows the application of a ligature to the artery of the upper ex- tremity in any part of its course, however near the heart. 6th. That when the collateral vessels are capable of carrying on the circulation through the lower extremity, the lower end of the divided artery bleeds dark or wnows-coloured blood, whilst its upper end bleeds scarlet or arterial-coloured blood. In the upper extremity, the colour of the blood from the lower end of the divided artery is little altered—a consequence of the greater freedom of anastomoses, or of the freer collateral circulation in the upper extremity. Facts of the greatest im- portance in surgery. 7th. That whenever the collateral vessels are not capable of cai-rying on the circulation of a limb, mortification or death of the part ensues; and that whenever this collateral circulation is sufficient to maintain the life of the limb, blood must 2>as$ into