Balls penetrating the Brain. 356 removal of the broken pieces. As a centre-pin cannot be used, the trephine may be made to turn very well in most cases in a flat but thick bar of iron, having a hole in the middle, of such size only as will admit the polished outside to turn in it. Sufficient support for the instrument will be obtained by this means until it has made a groove in the bone for itself, when the operation may be continued as it would be in an ordinary case after the removal of the centre-pin. When a musket-bail ranges along the side or top of the head, it may break the outer, and depress and fracture the inner table to a considerable extent, for the space even of three or more inches. The broken portions of bone may in general be removed by means of good forceps and a straight saw; and no good reason can be given tor delaying the opera- tion unless the nature of the injury be doubtful, when it may be as well to wait for symptoms. It sometimes happens, although rarely, that a ball sticks so firmly in the bone that it cannot be extracted by working round it in any ordinary way, with a pointed instrument. The difficulty usually arises from the ball having half buried itself in the diploe, so little of it being exposed, as not to admitof a firm hold being taken of it. The large trephine, used in the way pointed out, has several times overcome this difficulty. The removal of the outer table has been sufficient Where the inner one has not been driven into the dura mater; when any doubt is entertained on this point both should be removed. 281. A ball Or other foreign substance may penetrate the brain directly or obliquely. When the ball penetrates the brain''directly, it is not often that it can be removed, and the sufferer very rarely survives beyond a few days, even if the ball has been extracted, more particularly if the injury have occurred in the anterior part of the substance of the brain; several, however, have recovered, in whom the injury occurred towards the back part of the head, the ball being allowed to remain. It will be better in all such cases to allow the ball to remain, which it will often do for many days, until circumstances render it necessary to endeavour to find it. When it can be felt immediately under the surface of the brain, it ought to be removed like any other foreign substance.