278 Common Operation on the Subclavian Artery. on that vessel might be attended with success. This error is not likely, however, to occur in the present day, for the stetho- scope will always point out the existence of such an aneurism within the chest, and will therefore demonstrate the impro- priety of the operation. Aneurisms of this nature are usually attended by some circumstances indicating their more internal origin, independently of the information derived from the stethoscope; an operation should only be attempted when the case is free from doubt. Whenever an aneurismal tumour in the neck is accompanied by any alteration of the sterno-clavicular articulation, the case is clearly one totally unfitted for any operation. The same may be said of any case of aneurismal swelling, either internal or external to it, in which the stethoscope applied on the sternum in the course of the arteria innominata, or of the arch of the aorta, indicates disease. A swelling at the root of the carotid is more likely to be an aneurism of the arch of the aorta, or of the arteria innominata, than of the carotid itself; the stethoscope will remove all doubt. 235. The subclavian artery has been frequently tied above the clavicle, external to the scalenus anticus muscle. It should be done in the following manner:—The patient being placed horizontally on the table, in such a situation that the light may be directed into the hollow in the bottom of which the artery is to be tied, the shoulder is to be depressed, and an incision made along the edge of the clavicle, commencing one inch nearer the sternum than the clavicular edge of the sterno- cleido-mastoideus muscle, and carried outwards to the extent of three inches and a half or four inches. The platysma myoides and the superficial fascia are to be divided, taking care not to injure the external jugular vein, which should be drawn to the outer side of the wound. By this incision the edges of the trapezius and sterno-cleido mastoideus muscles will be exposed. The object of the operation is in the first instance to reach the outer edge of the anterior scalenus muscle: this lies im- mediately below the outer edge of the clavicular portion of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and the division of a portion of this part of the muscle will greatly facilitate the subsequent