Acute Idiopathic Inflammation. 381 gliding motion is not effected silently, but with a peculiar noise, called by the French froUement. When the lung is inflamed, the respiratory murmur is changed in that part, or is over- come by a peculiar sound, which can be distinctly investigated by the ear—rhonchus crepitans. Hence the great value of auscultation. In the following observations it is not intended to give a history of, or even the whole of the symptoms and the con- sequences of inflammation of the pleura and the lungs; but only to draw attention to such of the principal facts as it may be necessary to consider when these inflammations and their consequences are caused by external injuries. Acute idiopathic inflammation of the pleura usually com- mences by rigors, preceded perhaps by some signs of general uneasiness, which soon become those of great febrile excite- ment. Pain is early felt in the side in the course of the sixth, seventh, and eighth ribs, on the point corresponding generally to the seat of the inflammation. It is usually sharp and darting, is called a stitch, occupies rather a small space, (the point de cote of the French,) and is always increased by draw- ing a full breath or by coughing. The breathing is short, from the disinclination to fill the chest, which increases the pain; it is hurried, and sometimes takes place as if by jerks, from the necessity for its repetition, in consequence of the smallness of the quantity of air admitted at each attempt. "When the attack is very severe the patient tries to breathe with the healthy side only, the lower ribs of the affected side being moved but slightly, and with evident caution. If the inflammation have been caused by extreme violence, pain will be also felt, in particular at the part injured. When inflammation has affected the pleura covering the diaphragm, especially when caused by external violence, the pain will be felt lower down, so as to lead to the suspicion that it is also abdominal. When jaundice supervenes, it occurs from the extension of disease through the substance of the diaphragm, as is occasionally seen in wounds implicating the chest, the diaphragm, and the liver. A cough is not a constant accompaniment of the first stage of disease; when present, it is usually dry, slight, infrequent,