527 Proper Treatment of Wounded Intestine. made across his abdomen from above the ilium, through which a quantity of intestine protruded, which he carried in his hat, enveloped in his shirt. Having had to walk between three and four miles, in the heat of July, to the old lady, his bowels were as dry as parchment by the time he arrived. She, therefore, bathed them in warm milk-and-water, until they became soft and natural in appearance, returned them into the cavity of the belly, and sewed up the wound with a well-waxed silken thread—thus setting an example which ought to be followed in 1853. The man recovered. 388. When the protruded intestine is wounded, the case is complicated, and much depends on the size of the wound. A mere puncture, or a very small cut, is often of no conse- quence, and does not require any treatment; the bowel should merely be returned to the cavity of the belly, and the symptoms of inflammation closely watched, and if possible, steadily subdued. It is advisable, in investigating this subject further, to con- sider the abdomen as devoid of cavity during life and health, the contained parts being so gently pressed upon by the con- taining and retaining muscular parietes around, as to enable them to carry on all their ordinary functions, unless suffering from some derangement, exclusive of that which might arise from a deficiency of the pressure usually exercised upon them; but that this pressure can, or generally will, prevent the effusion of the contents of a bowel, when ruptured, if the wound be half an inch in length, or that it will prevent the extravasation of blood from an artery or vein, of mode- rate dimension, if torn, is contrary to facts now considered indisputable, as I have frequently had occasion to verify. That a mere puncture of the intestine does not allow the effu- sion of air, much less of the contents of the bowel, is not doubted. When the contents of the bowel have been poured out, without an external opening in the paries, through which they might escape, inflammation and death have ensued, at no long distance of time. When blood is poured out from the great vessels, as in rupture of the liver, or splee —of which instances will be adduced—the general cavity may be filled; but when the injury is less extensive, or the lesion