462 Illustrative Cases. quantity to render the evacuation of the fluid necessary. After this he gradually sunk, and died on Wednesday morning. He lost on the whole fifty-six ounces of blood. On examination after death, it was found that the ball, after entering the cavity of the chest, had slightly abraded the left lung at its lower and inferior edge; which was covered by recent lymph, the lung being internally sound. The left side of the chest contained nearly a pint of red-coloured serum. The ball had perforated the diaphragm, grazed the fat of the left kidney, passed through the great omentum below the stomach, to the part where it was extracted, injuring apparently no important organ in the abdomen in its transit, but giving rise to an effusion of blood from some small vessel which had sloughed, the blood being partly coagulated and diffused to the amount of many ounces; its loss appeared to have been the immediate cause of death. A gamekeeper's gun burst at the Red House, Battersea, and a small part of the lock entered the middle of the arm, and passed upwards into the axilla, where it could not be traced by Mr. Keate, who saw him within an hour after the accident. The symptoms which followed were those of inflammation of the chest, and were subdued by active treatment; the wound healed, and he returned to his occupation in Wiltshire. Having exposed himself to the night air some weeks after- wards, the inflammation of the chest returned, and he died. On opening the thorax, one edge of the bit of iron was found impacted in the surface of the lung, the other edge was rubbing against the inside of the sixth rib, which was nearly worn through by the constant friction it underwent during respi- ration ; there was also a mark on the pericardium as of a cica- trix, and of a graze on the surface of the heart. Among the French prisoners in Lisbon, in the spring of 1813,1 saw a man in whose chest a ball had entered midway between the fifth and sixth ribs, and lodged; from this a constant and considerable discharge of purulent matter took place. The ball was found after death lying between the diaphragm and the spine, surrounded by coagulable lymph, and adhering by its envelope to the spine and diaphragm at the angle formed between them; there was a very thickened