232 Practice now established in such Cases. merits employed. I could now pass a tenaculum under the spot whence the hlood came, which I raised a little with it, hut could not distinctly see the wounded artery in the altered state of parts, so as to secure it separately. I therefore passed a small needle, hearing two threads, a sufficient distance above the tenaculum to induce me to believe it was in sound parts, but including very little in the ligature, when the haemorrhage ceased; another was passed in the same manner below, and the tenaculum withdrawn. The coagula under the muscles were removed, the cavity washed out by a stream of warm water injected through the external opening, the wound gently drawn together by two or three straps of adhesive plaster, and the limb enveloped in cloths constantly wetted with cold water. The patient was placed on milk diet. On the 4th, two days after the operation, the wound was dressed, and looked very well; the weather being very hot, two straps of plaster only were applied to prevent the parts separating. On the 5th, a poultice was laid over the dressings, in lieu of the cold water, the stiffness becoming disagreeable. On the 6th, as the wound, although open in all its extent, did not appear likely to separate more, the plasters were omitted, and a poultice alone applied. On the 8th and 9th it suppu- rated kindly; and on the 10th, or eight days from the opera- tion, the ligatures came away, the limb being free from tension, and the patient in an amended state of health, his medical treatment having been steadily attended to. The man was brought to England, to the York Hospital at Chelsea, and walked about without appearing lame, although he could not do so for any great distance. He suffered no pain, except an occasional cramp in the ball of the foot, and some contraction of the toes, which took place generally when he rose in a morning, and continued for a minute or two, until he put them straight with his hand; this I did not attribute to the operation, but to some additional injury done to the nerves by the ball in its course through the leg. This case established the practice now generally followed in England by its best surgeons. 198. It may be permitted to repeat, that if an artery such as the axillary be laid bare previously to an opera-