ID Military Medical Anecdote. lately seen a greater desire for information in most persons, ■which, if continued, cannot fail to lead to beneficial results. I must also hope that this strong appeal to your judgment, and the earnest recommendation it carries with it, for your atten- tion to these most important injuries, will not fail of success. Let me give you an example of what attention will do. The French army advanced from and around Ciudad Rodrigo, in September, 1811, to inquire after the British, which was dispersed by divisions in cantonments in the neigh- bourhood of that place. Marshal Marmont inspected his army in the plain, in front of Elboden, and a goodly show his soldiers made; the day was remarkably fine, and the marshal, being on a white horse and surrounded by a brilliant staff, was prominently conspicuous. On the 25th, the fight of Elboden took place. The third division of infantry, with a small body of German and English cavalry and artillery, had it all to them- selves, but were forced to retreat before very superior numbers. The next day, the fourth division of infantry, to which I then belonged, took their turn on the heights of Saca Parte, in the rear of Aldea del Ponte. The fight was sharply contested, but the English maintained their ground, the French being re- pulsed. I had now 300 wounded, of all arms, from the two days, without knowing what was to be done with them, as a further retreat was ordered. At midnight I saw the last wounded man out of the village, and at daylight, when near Alfaiates, I found the head of the medical department of the army sitting on a pannier by the road-side, and apparently keeping guard over some twenty or thirty others arranged in a semicircle around him. He was one of the best men in the world, but having slept out all night, looked as unhappy as need be for a man not used to it, and not a little frightened withal. It was impossible to avoid laughing, when he quietly said, "I am here taking care of the medical stores of the army, whilst the apothecary is watering the mules, lest the muleteers should run away with them." " I have seen," he added, " a great many wounded passing. Are they yours?" I bowed, and asked if he had told them where to go. No, he had not interfered, for he did not know where to go himself, he did not know the country. I assured him the French would be up in