264 Operation for Popliteal A neurism. branches, must fail. This error has been demonstrated, (AplT. 186,) and need not be further insisted upon. That it is still maintained by some surgeons and teachers, who prefer old jog- trot theories to demonstrated facts, and cannot perceive that an exception is not a fundamental rule, is much to be regretted. 225. The operation for popliteal aneurism lower' down in the thigh is to be done in the following manner:— The surgeon having turned the knee outwards, and bent the leg inwards into the tailor's sitting position, to show the course of the sartorius muscle, should trace the artery from the groin downwards, until it appears to pass under that muscle. The external incision, four inches in length, made in the course of the artery, should pass over this point one inch, so that when the fascia lata is divided, the sartorius muscle may be seen crossing over to the inside at the lower extremity of the wound. The fascia lata is to be divided upwards for the space of two inches of the incision. The fore-finger is then to be introduced into the wound, and pressure made with it rather outwardly, when it will readily distinguish the pulsation of the artery, still included in its sheath. This is to be opened by slight and repeated touches of the knife directly over the centre of the line of the vessel, or it may be divided on the director, when the artery will be exposed. The point of the fore-finger will easily recognise it from the roundness and firm- ness of the feeling communicated by it, as well as by its pulsa- tion ; and the end of the nail, or handle of the scalpel or blunt kuife, will separate it with facility from its attachments, to such an extent as to admit the blunt point of the solid unyielding aneurism needle to be passed beneath it from the pubic side. If the point of the needle do not readily come through the cellular attachments of the artery on the outside, this part must be touched lightly with the scalpel, or rubbed with the nail until the ligature is exposed, which should then be taken hold of with the forceps, and one end drawn out, whilst the instrument with the other end is withdrawn. The operator, taking both ends of the ligature, which has been in this manner passed under the artery, between the fingers of one hand, presses upon the artery with the fore-finger of the other, so as to arrest the course of the blood in it, when if there be an