128 Amputation of live, Fore-arm. separated from the humerus without difficulty. The flaps are to be brought together and retained in the usual manner. 124. Amputation of the fore-arm is seldom required after wounds from musket-balls. The bones can be readily got at, and large pieces removed with ease. The arteries can be cut down upon and secured without difficulty, except at the upper part, and even there with somelittle sacrificeof muscular parts, which are not to be spared. The fascia may be divided freely in every direction, and as mortification from defect of nourish- ment rarely takes place in the fingers, as it does in the toes, when the great arteries are injured, every effort should be made to save a fore-arm, however badly it may at first appear to be injured. The flap operation is to be preferred to the circular, parti- cularly when a little above the wrist; to which operation Baron Larrey and the surgeons of France particularly objected during the late war. Having done it most successfully since 1806, however, it is recommended as preferable to any other, even when the injury admits of its being done near the carpus. When the nature of the injury does not admit of two equal flaps being formed, it must be done by two unequal ones, or even by one, it being important for the fixing of an artificial hand or other help, to have a long stump. The arm being placed and held firmly in the intermediate position between pronation and supination, with the thumb uppermost, so that the radius and ulna are in one line, a sharp- pointed straight knife is to be entered close to the inner edge of the radius and brought out. below at the inner edge of the ulna. It is then to be carried forwards for half an inch, and made to cut its way out with a gentle inclination, so as to form a semi-circular flap. Re-entered at the same point as before, a similar flap is to be made on the outside, the position of the bones being a little altered to admit of its easy execution. The two flaps are to be turned back; the tendon of the supi- nator radii longus,and all other tendinous, muscular, or inter- osseous fibres, not cut through, are then to be divided, and the linen retractor run between the bones, which are to be sawn across at the same time. All pressure being taken off, the