570 Balls lodging in the Bones of the Pelvis. a musket-ball, which entered at the groin, and made its exit behind. He was transported to Brussels, with his foot and leg in a state of mortification. Wine and other stimulants were freely given, and he rallied a little ou the 23rd and 24th. On the 25th the stomach rejected everything except brandy and opium. Ou the 26th, a line of separation seemed to be about to form between the dead and the living parts, although he was evidently failing. He died on the 28th, eleven days after the receipt of the injury. On examination after death the ball was found to have completely divided the external iliac artery; about a pint of coagulated blood, mixed with some excessively foetid pus, was collected in the pelvis; the ends of the wounded artery had receded considerably from each other, and a coagulum had formed in each, which was easily squeezed out, the orifice of the upper end only being a little contracted. There were signs of some peritoneal inflam- mation having taken place; the intestines had not been wounded, and the ball, in passing out, had splintered the upper edge of the back part of the ilium. General Sir Edward Pakenham was killed instantaneously at New Orleans, by hemorrhage, from a nearly similar wound, in which the common iliac artery was divided. 414. I have removed balls on different occasions which have lodged in the bones of the pelvis, and always with the greatest advantage, when done early. I have seen much evil result from their being allowed to remain, as they caused not only frequent distress, but at last gave rise to disease in the bone, derangement of the general health, and death. "When the ball can be felt impacted in the bone, incisions through muscular parts of little consequence should not be spared, to expose it. If an error exists at this moment, it is that too little is done, rather than too much. Too great reliance is placed on the efforts of nature, and not enough on the resources of art- The constant meddling with a wound i3 not recommended; nevertheless, much may be done by careful investigation from time to time, of which La Motte gives a good example in his fifty-first observation. A grenadier was wounded at the battle of Dettingen, in 1743, by a musket-ball, which entered above Poupart's liga-