210 Deep Wound of an Artery, been accidentally cut by the point of a scythe. On dilating the wound, a tourniquet being on the limb, black blood flowed freely from it; on unscrewing the tourniquet by degrees, arterial blood showed itself, and the upper end of the artery was secured by ligature when the tourniquet was removed. Venous-looking or black blood then again flowed in greater abundance than before, and evidently from a large vessel. This I restrained by pressure made below the wound with the thumb of the left hand, whilst I laid bare the lower part of the artery, from a slit in which near an inch in length the black blood was seen to flow. A ligature passed around the vessel below the wound, suppressed the bleeding. The artery was not divided, and the young gentleman perfectly recovered, and has continued well until this day. The abso- lute necessity for two ligatures was here well shown, as well as the flow of dark-coloured blood from the lower end of the artery. 192. When a large artery is wounded at some depth from the surface, and the external opening is small, blood not only issues through the opening, but is often forced into the cellular structure of the limb to a considerable distance, the pulsation of the tumour is observable, and the thrill or sound which accompanies a ruptured artery is distinct. If a large quantity of blood, partly in a fluid, partly in a coagulated state, is collected immediately over and around the wound in the artery, the tumour may not pulsate or give forth any sound if the coagulated blood is in considerable quantity, although some elevation of the tumour may be observed corresponding to the pulse. This rising or pulsation of the swelling often depends on the impulse given to the whole as a mass by the artery against which it is lying, and not upon blood circulating through it. An impulse of this kind is distinguishable in a brouchocele which lies immediately over and in contact with the carotid artery. It is the same when blood is extravasated by the rupture of several small vessels, in consequence of the passage of a wheel over the limb, and especially in the thigh, where a swelling containing fluid blood will sometimes pulsate in a well-marked manner, until it gradually diminishes as