Tlie first improvement received with difficulty. 8 attend any other practice—and it is only by accident it can do so—such success is in its turn now considered to be the excep- tion, confirming the principles and the precepts I have laid down. The youngest surgeon of that army, I had no quality save one, not possessed in a greater degree, perhaps, by all my seniors,—an aptitude for labour, leading to the belief that little was done whilst anything remained to be done. I was always, therefore, in the midst of every kind of work, and perfectly willing to do everybody's business as well as my own, when they were not willing to do it; indeed, if there was work to be done, and nobody else to do it, I always looked upon it as my individual property. It was this which has enabled, and now enables me to address you so didactically, or, perhaps, as some may think, so dogmatically; but which inclination for work I nevertheless earnestly recommend yon to adopt, having little faith in that great qualification which all are desirous of being supposed to possess, but which so few do possess, and which is called genius. The observations thus made on the injuries of the great blood-vessels of the body, were followed by others on the mortification of the extremities, which frequently resulted from them; and ending most frequently in the death of the suf- ferers, when treated according to the principles and precepts of Mr. Hunter and his followers, including all the surgeons of the period remarkable for their knowledge and ability. These observations led to the recommendation of an entirely opposite mode of treatment, not only in such cases, but in many others dependent on different causes. The published results of the seven campaigns, the thirty years of teaching as surgeon in a public hospital in London, and in extensive pri- vate practice, have not entirely overcome all opposition. No one defends the ancient doctrines, but all do not teach the essential difference which exists between a local and a constitutional mortification in young persons who have suffered from a sudden and severe injury, in the clear distinct, and decisive manner in which it should be taught; or if they do, their students do not give to the teachers ' that attention they deserve. I have even ventured to con-