Wounds of the Neck. 496 The discussions which took place on this case led to the statement of an anatomical fact—that when a man is standing erect, a line drawn horizontally from the upper border of the second rib in front, would touch the upper edge of the fifth rib behind, and that very little inclination—viz., an inch and a half, was necessary to make the shot wound the intercostal artery of the sixth. Auscultation would have made known the extravasation, and relief might have been given by an incision over the spot where uneasiness was felt; for the loss of blood was not sufficient of itself to destroy life, unless some other injury had been sustained, which was not perceived. 364. Wounds of the neck which are made with swords, or by knives or razors, by persons attempting to destroy themselves, are to be treated on two great principles. The first is, not to place the parts in contact until all haemorrhage has ceased, lest the patient be suffocated. In the meantime, whilst any oozing continues, a soft sponge may be placed between the edges of the cut. When the larynx or trachea is obstructed by a quantity of blood, it may be sucked out, or drawn up by an exhausting pump, and it may be advisable in some cases to introduce a tube. If the trachea be cut across, a stitch will be necessary to keep the ends in contact. The second is, to keep the divided parts in contact afterwards, by position and bandage, but not by suture. If the oesophagus be wounded, nourishment should be administered by a gum-elastic tube introduced through the nares into the stomach. It is almost unnecessary to add that the artery, if wounded, should be secured by ligature. A hole in the internal jugular vein may be closed by a thread passed around it when raised by a tena- culum. Captain Hall, of the 43rd Regiment,, was wounded by a ball which passed between the upper part of the back of the larynx, and the termination of the pharynx, without causing much further inconvenience than the loss of voice. In this instance it must have been the superior laryngeal nerve that was injured, and not the recurrent, yet the voice could only be heard in a whisper, and was not completely recovered for years. If a ball should lodge in the trachea, it must be re- moved by the operation of laryngotomy or tracheotomy, if the