place a Ligature on an Artery unless it bleeds. 213 John Wilson, of the 23rd Regiment, was wounded at the battle of Salamanca by a musket-ball, which entered imme- diately behind the trochanter major, passed downwards, forwards, and inwards, and came out on the inside of the anterior part of the thigh. The ball could not have injured the femoral artery, although it might readily have divided some branch of the profunda. Several days after the receipt * of the injury, I saw this man sitting at night on his bed, which was on the floor, with his leg bent and out of it, another man holding a candle, and a third catching the blood which flowed from the wound, and which had half filled a large pewter basin. A tourniquet with a thick pad was placed as high as possible on the upper part of the thigh, and the officer on duty was requested to loosen it in the course of an hour; which was done, and the bleeding did not recommence. The next day, the patient being laid on the operation table, I removed the coagula from both openings, and tried to bring on the bleeding by pressure and by moving the limb; it would not, however, bleed. As there could be no other guide to the wounded artery, which was evidently a deep-seated one, I did not like to cut down into the thigh without it, and the man was re- placed in bed, and a loose precautionary tourniquet applied. At night the wound bled smartly again, and the blood was evidently arterial. It was soon arrested by pressure. The next day I placed him on the operating table again, but the artery would not bleed. This occurred a third time, and with the same result. The bleedings were, however, now almost immediately suppressed, whenever they took place, by the orderly who attended upon him; care having been taken to have a long, thick pad always lying over the femoral artery, from and below Poupart's ligament, upon which he made pressure with his hand for a short time. Absolute rest was enjoined. The haemorrhage at last ceased without further interference, and the man recovered. This case was one of considerable interest at the time, and is the model one on which the treatment of all such injuries should be founded. If the wound had bled, I should have in- troduced my finger, and enlarged it transversely, continuing the incision until the opening was sufficiently large to see