Pneumo thorax. 414 suffering from great difficulty of breathing and other distress in his chest, which recurred from time to time, although the wound had healed. He was admitted into the York Hospital, Chelsea, in the spring of 1816, in consequence of an attack of inflammation, of which he died. On exa- mining the body, the lung of the right side was found to be greatly inflamed, and full of purulent fluid, which caused his death. The left or wounded side was found to contain a small quantity of pus, the cavity being very much diminished, by the great thickening of the pleura, and the falling in of the ribs, which were thicker, greatly flattened, and changed in form; the lung shrunk or collapsed, was covered by a thick adventitious membrane, and bound down against the spine, leaving a long small space between the pleurae, which once had doubtlessly been full of matter. The mediastinum and heart appeared to lean towards the left side, aiding in this manner in the obliteration of the cavity, which must take place if a permanent cure be effected in empyema. I have seen two cases in which this obliteration appeared to be complete—one in a soldier, who had been wounded in the chest—one in a gentleman, the subject of empyema in private life. In both, the spine was also distorted, the side wasted, the nipple lower than the other. The breathing of the opposite side more marked and developed. It might have been called puerile. 320. Pneumothorax means an effusion of air and of the matter of a tubercular abscess from a disease into the cavity of the chest, or from an injury or a wound in the lung. When pneumo-thorax is the consequence of disease of long standing, the patient may be sensible of a sudden pain, which does not abate, and which is accompanied by an equally sudden increase of the difficulty of breathing, for which he cannot account. He feels relief by lying on his back, or on the affected side, rarely on the other, although the difficulty of breathing may increase, so as to render the further continuance of life doubt- ful, whilst the prostration of strength is considerable. The muscles of respiration are all in rapid and powerful action; the heart is displaced to the right side when the complaint attacks the left, and it will be displaced somewhat to the left