352 Elevation of Ike Dura Mater in a confined spot, or it may be diffused generally over the surface of the brain, in which case the sufferer has no chance of relief. 278. The operation of incising the dura mater, to admit of the discharge of blood or matter from beneath, and even of puncturing the brain, has not been much resorted to in Eng- land, which may be an error. The records of surgery supply many cases where it might have been done with advantage, and some in which it was done with the greatest benefit to the patient. It is not an operation which ought to be performed without signs sufficiently demonstrative of the necessity for doing it. I have seen, on the removal of a portion of bone by the trephine, the dura mater rise up rapidly into the opening, so as to attain the level of the surface of the skull, totally devoid, however, of that pulsatory motion which usually marks its healthy state; an opening into it,under these circumstances, has allowed a quantity of blood or of purulent matter to escape, proving that the unnatural elevation of the dura mater was caused by the resiliency of the brain when the opposing pres- sure of the cranium was removed. This tense elevation, its abnormal colour, and the absence of pulsation are positive signs of there being a fluid beneath, requiring an incision into the dura mater for its evacuation. It is a point scarcely noticed in English surgery—one which was not in the slightest degree understood at the commencement of the war in the Peninsula. A. Monro, of the 42nd regiment, was wounded on the 10th of April at Toulouse by a musket-ball, which fractured the left parietal bone slightly, without depressing any part of it. No symptoms followed requiring more than ordinary attention until the 23rd, up to which time he had been kept on low diet, for the most part in bed, and had been bled and purged. On the evening of that day he became feverish, and hasty and odd in manner, and the pulse quickened; he declared himself however to be quite well, and submitted to be bled and physicked with great reluctance; calomel combined with opium being given him at short intervals- On the 24th he complained of pain in the head, which he said was very slight, and that upon