255 Ligature of tJie Common Iliac Artery. was not large enough to admit two hands. The peritoneum being, however, separated a little from the posterior wall of the abdomen from the outside, by the fingers, for a cutting instrument is inadmissible, four of the fingers of one hand were introduced beneath it, and it was turned a little over towards the opposite side. In doing this it must be remem- bered that the peritoneum must be raised, the hand being pushed towards the back as little as possible, in order to avoid getting behind the fat commonly found in that part of the body, which would lead to the under edge of the psoas muscle instead of the upper surface, and thus render the ope- ration embarrassing. The peritoneum being carefully drawn over with its con- tents, I found I could only get one hand, or a little more, under- neath it in search of the artery, the tumour below preventing any further detachment of the peritoneum in that direction. I therefore passed my finger across the psoas muscle, and it rested on the fifth lumbar vertebra. The common iliac artery was not, however, to be felt, even as high up as the fourth lumbar vertebra, nor the aorta; they had both risen with the peritoneum, and my finger resting on the spine was beneath them. Mr. Keate endeavoured to raise or draw over the peritoneum, to give me an opportunity of seeing the vessels, but that was out of the question. In doing this, he felt the pulsation of the iliac artery, which had been raised with the peritoneum, to which I found it adhering. Carefully separating it with the end of the fore-finger of the right hand, I passed a single thread of strong dentists' silk, as it is termed, in a common solid aneurismal needle, by the aid of the thumb and fore-finger of the left hand, round the artery without seeing it. I could then bring the artery a little for- ward by means of the aneurismal needle, when it appeared to be perfectly clear, and from the distance of the bifurcation of the aorta ahove, which could be distinctly felt, I calculated that the common iliac was tied exactly at its middle part. All pulsation below immediately ceased. The two ends of the ligature were twisted,and the peritoneum replaced in its proper situation, care being taken that the two small openings into it should be well covered under the skin,