Of Sir Andrew Barnard, G C.B.j U7 A dragoon of the King's German Legion, shot in a nearly similar manner on the same occasion, suffered more severely: the clavicle and first rib were splintered to a greater extent, and he lost a large quantity of blood by the mouth. The splinters having been removed, after enlarging both wounds for that purpose, and the inflammatory symptoms subdued, he appeared to be going on favourably for three weeks, when, having eaten some meat obtained irregularly, he suffered what seemed to be a bilious attack of vomiting and purging, attended by fever and oppression in the chest; an ipecacuanha emetic having been given with fall effect, relieved him much. During the efforts to vomit, the wounds discharged a quantity of sero- purulent fluid, a piece of the cloth of his coat, and another of bone, which had gone in with the ball, and in all likelihood had been lying with the matter at the bottom of the chest. After this he slowly recovered. This case is peculiarly instructive. General Sir Andrew Barnard, G.C.B., was wounded when in command of the Rifle Brigade, at the passage of the Nivelle, on the 10th Nov. 1813, by a musket-ball, which entered be- tween the second and third ribs, in front of the right side of the chest, passed directly through the cavity and through the shoulder-blade, from under the integuments covering which it was removed. He not only felt but heard the sound of the ball as it struck him, and fell from his horse. Blood gushed from his mouth, and continued to do so until after he was completely exhausted by bleeding from the arm to the amount of two quarts. He was again bled at night, and the subsequent morning, which relieved all the material symptoms. During six weeks he suffered from difficulty of breathing and cough, and from night-sweats. Some pieces of bone and cloth came away from the wounds, with a free discharge in the first in- stance, which gradually diminished until the wound closed. In eight weeks he was able to resume his command. Now, forty years afterwards, the lung is pervious, and the vesicular murmur can be freely heard even up to the situation of the wounds, to the internal parts of which it may be con- cluded the lung adheres from the sound conveyed to the ear on auscultation. He has since suffered little or no incon- venience from the in jury.