75 Mode of Operating. only, chance of success. In such cases, the operator has in general the power of selecting his mode of proceeding. It may be laid down as a principle in all cases of acci- dent, whether from shot, shell, or railway-carriages, that no man should suffer amputation at the hip-joint when the thigh-bone is entire. It should never be done in cases of injury when the bone can be sawn through immediately below the trochanter major, and sufficient flaps can be preserved to close the wound thus made. An injury warranting this operation should extend to the neck or head of the bone, and it may be possible, as I have proposed, even then to avoid it by removing the broken parts. 79. The principle being established, as a general rule, in all cases of recent injury, that the femur must be broken at least as high as the trochanter to constitute an imperative case for this operation, the next point of importance relates to the manner of forming the first incisions. The instructions and recommendations to be found in books for the performance of this operation are frequently inapplicable, and are not to be depended upon; the errors occurring from the opera- tion having been considered and performed on the dead body and not on the living, on the normal and not on the injured state of parts. Thus, for instance, it is recommended that an assistant should rotate the knee outwards or inwards, to show the head of the femur; to which recommendation there is the insuperable objection, that no person should suffer this operation who has a knee, or half a thigh, or even a third of one, to move by the rotary process. Pure theorists in sur- gery have decided upon having a large flap made on the fore part of the thigh, and a smaller one behind, regardless of the fact that this cannot be done in many cases requiring a primary operation from the nature of the injury, although it may be done in many secondary cases, in which this severe operation would not have been required if the limb had been amputated in the first instance. It is the mode recommended by Mr. Brownrigg, who in his operations, which were secondary ones, had a choice of integument, and it is perhaps, under these circumstances, the best. Baron Larrey tied the femoral artery in the first in-