Atmospheric Air the Bugbear of Surgeons. 517 wander from place to place, in the manner which has been sometimes attributed to them, but remain under proper care, so far stationary, as to admit of the cut edges of the wounded peritoneum adhering to the healthy peritoneum opposed, when they will be retained in contact with it. The serous surfaces of the peritoneum which are in contact with each other, soon offer on one part, and accept on the other, the process of adhesion, through the medium of lymph or fibrine deposited between them. If this adhesion take place, it ex- tends for some little distance from the wounded part, which it thus closes up, and cuts off from all communication with the general cavity of the belly; the previous admission of air —the bugbear of surgeons of the olden times—being of no sort of consequence. The adhesive process is the effect of inflammation, extending to a certain point, and ending in the deposition of fibrine. When it exceeds this, the secretion of a quantity of serous fluid, together with threads of flocculent matter, marks the excess of inflammation: it is diffused over more or less of the peritoneum lining the wall of the belly, covers its contained viscera, and prevents that adhesion from taking place which is the safeguard of the patient. 382. Absolute quietude is no less to be observed. It must, however, be steadfastly continued; the slightest alteration of position should be forbidden. It should on no account and for no reason whatever be allowed, if it can by any possibility be avoided. In the position in which the patient is placed, he should be rigorously maintained, until adhesion has been effected, or all hope of it has passed away. The practice of the older surgeons was to purge such persons vigorously, in order to remove from their bowels any peccant matters that might be in them; in the same manner they recommended persons should be purged who had undergone the operation for strangulated hernia; both which proceedings the expe- rience of the war condemned, as being not only contrary to the right medical treatment of such cases, but to the phy- siological and surgical principles on which it ought to be founded. No purgative medicine whatever should be given to a person with a penetrating wound of the abdomen. No food should enter his mouth; and no more water even should