Fractures of the Bibs. 444 require larger incisions to give room for their removal. Great praise was given of old to Gerard, surgeon in chief of La Charite in Paris, who, having perceived that a small sword, after going through a rib, was broken off close to it, thought it ad- visable to make an incision through the intercostal muscles into the chest, and then to introduce his forefinger, armed at the end with a thimble, with which he pressed back the point of the broken blade. In a case of this kind, the surface and outer edge of the bone should be removed, until the piece of steel can be firmly seized and withdrawn by a fine pair of pincers or pliers. When a ball sticks firmly between two ribs, it requires some care to remove it, as the rib both above and below may be more or less interested, although not actually fractured. The attempt should be made during inspiration, when the lower rib should be depressed, and some thin, but not sharp- pointed instrument like an elevator should be gently pressed around and under the looser edge of the ball, in order to ex- tricate it. When a musket-ball fractures a rib, there ought to be no hesitation about the propriety of enlarging the wound, to allow the splintered portions of bone to be removed. It is possible that in doing this some pieces of cloth or other matters may be extracted, which might else glide into the cavity of the thorax, or stick in the lung itself. A soldier of one of the regiments on the left of the posi- tion of Talavera was brought to me, wounded by a ball in the left side of the breast; it had struck the sixth rib, and passed out about four inches nearer the back. As the point of the finger indicated the presence of broken bone, I enlarged the anterior wound, and then found that the ball had driven some spiculae of bone into the surface of the lung, which appeared to have been previously attached to the pleura costalis at that part. These having been removed, together with a piece of coat which had been carried in with the ball, a small, clean wound was left, which gradually healed up, the man accompanying me on the retreat over the bridge of Arzobispo. 338. When a ball impinges with force on the centre of one of the ribs, and passes into or through the chest, the bone is