Auscultation invaluable. 377 of Vera, in the Pyrenees. He fell on his back breathless' as if he were killed. Whilst waiting the order to ad- vance he had been reading Gil Bias in Spanish, and on receiving it, had hastily put the book in the breast- pocket of his coat. The ball had struck this, but unable to penetrate it, had fallen on the ground at his feet, com- pletely flattened on one side, and marked with the impression of the braid of his coat. A piece of the cover of the book, about the size of a half-a-crown, was driven in, and the leaves throughout were indented by the ball. It was some days before the effects of the blow entirely subsided. A soldier of the 97th regiment was struck at the unsuc- cessful assault of Fort Christoval, opposite Badajos, by a musket-ball, which went through his brass breastplate and coat, drove his shirt through the skin, and against the sternum, which it was not able to penetrate. He fell, and was supposed to be killed; but he soon recovered, and ran to the rear. The ball wa3 found flattened between his shirt and coat. The part of the chest was very black next day, the spot struck by the ball beiDg much bruised. It was necessary to bleed him largely. When the integuments are painful, although merely bruised, the diluted tincture of arnica is a useful application, and Scheele's hydrocyanic acid, six drops to an ounce of water, is said to be efficacious. Major Lightfoot was struck by a musket-ball on the left breast; it went through his clothes, the integuments and the outer part of the great pectoral muscle, and slanted in- wards for three inches towards the sternum, to which distance its track could be followed. It was evident that the ball had neither lodged nor penetrated, for no serious symptoms ensued. In all probability it had been ejected the way it went in by the elasticity of the cartilages of the ribs near the sternum. . 297. In order to understand, or to become in any way ac- quainted with the changes from the natural structure which are going on under derangement in the chest, from even simple in- juries, it is al ways necessary to have recourse to auscultation, and sometimes, although more rarely, to percussion, if the external parts are not too tender. Under all circumstances both sides of the chest should be examined by the stethoscope. As the K K 2