521 with Protrusion of its Contents. or intestine, if not of both. This may take place at the rounded orifice of entrance of a ball, as well as at the more slit-like opening of exit, which, if the patient should recover, becomes closed by a thin tendinous-like expansion, under the cicatrix formed by the common integuments. These soon yield to the general pressure on the abdominal cavity, and admit of the formation at the part of a ventral rupture, re- quiring the application of a restraining bandage. 386. When a piece of omentum only protrudes, the direction given by the latest writers on surgery is, that it shall be re- turned into the cavity of the abdomen whence it came, the finger following to ascertain that it is quite free; after which the wound is to be carefully closed by sutures applied close to the peritoneum, so that the omentum may not again protrude through it. Having objected already to the manner of em- ploying the suture, I now object to the treatment of the omentum, and do not approve of its being so dexterously re- turned by the finger within the peritoneum to its natural loose situation. I desire, on the contrary, that it may be re- tained between the cut edges of the peritoneum, but without the slightest pressure or possible strangulation; in order that by its retention it may more readily adhere to these edges, and thus form a more certain barrier against the extension of inflammation, than is likely to take place by some accidental contact, when moving at liberty in the cavity of the abdomen, however closely it may be supposed to be applied to the inner surface of its paries. It sometimes happens that a portion of omentum is alto- gether without the cavity of the abdomen, and the opening through which it has protruded seems too small to allow its restoration to the cavity. The latest authors on this sub- ject recommend a blunt director to be introduced between the upper edge of the wound and the protruded part, be it omentum, or intestine, or both, upon which a blunt-ended bistoury is to be passed into the cavity as far as the enlarge- ment of the wound seems to require, after which the director and the bistoury are to be withdrawn together. I altogether dissent from this. It is scarcely ever necessary to enlarge the opening in the peritoneum, the obstacle to reduction being y y 2