Blisters and simple Drinks. 399 irritable, whilst the large and less frequent doses often excite great apprehension. It is argued that calomel in large doses never causes the dysentery nor the severe ptyalism produced by smaller doses; that it acts more quickly, and that after giving twenty grains, and repeating it in six hours, any other medicines may be given without interfering with it, although the strictest attention must be paid to diet, generally con- fining it to very small sups of warm whey. Very serious de- rangements do, however, follow the exhibition of the large as well as of the small doses, inasmuch as it is impossible to know beforehand what quantity will cause a severe salivation or diarrhoea, which it may be difficult to arrest. 310. It may be concluded, that of the two heroic internal remedies, tartar emetic and calomel, recommended for the cure of inflammation of the chest, tartar emetic is the more appropriate for inflammation of the lungs or pneumonia, pro- vided it be not accompanied by symptoms of gastric inflamma- tion; in which case its use should be superseded by leeches to the epigastrium, and saline aperients, lest the irritation, vomiting, and purging should increase the evil. But care must be taken that one inflammation shall not be allowed to increase, whilst attention is principally paid to the other, and symptoms of irritation, the gastro-entente of the French phy- sicians, are not to be mistaken for gastritis. Mercury, in the form of calomel, is more to be depended upon in inflammation of the pleura, over which, as well as over inflammation of serous membranes in other parts of the body, it exercises a remarkable influence. 311. Blisters are never useful during the continuance of acute inflammation of the chest, although their use is indicated when the patient is much exhausted, the pulse weak, and the breathing continues difficult; or in cases in which the disease proceeds slowly, or is becoming chronic, when they often do much good. The same may be said of dry cupping, mustard poultices, and other cutaneous rubefacients, which often do much good in the commencement and termination of slight attacks, or of their supervention on chronic disease, as after injuries. In the acute stages simple drinks only should be allowed.