L igature of the Gluteal and Sciatic Arteries. 261 to enlarge the incision, and tie both ends of the divided vessel; I have no hesitation in saying, it will not be of any consequence, either in this operation or in one for hernia. 222. In all cases of aneurism of the gluteal and sciaticarteries, the internal iliac artery should be tied, instead of an opera- tion on the part itself. In all cases of wounds of those arteries, which are the only ones rendering an operation for placing a ligature on these vessels necessary, the wound should in a great measure regulate the course of the incision. The ope- ration is an act of simple division, first, through the common integuments for the space of five inches, then through and between the fibres of the glutajus muscle to the same extent; a dense aponeurosis covering the vessels is to be next divided, when the bleeding will lead to the injured vessel. Place the body on the face, turn the toes inwards; commence the incision one inch below the posterior spinous process, and one inch from the sacrum, carry it on towards the great trochanter in an oblique direction to the extent of five inches. Divide the glutseus muscle and the aponeurosis beneath it, and .seek for the artery as it escapes through the upper and anterior part of the sciatic notch, and lying close to the bone. If the vessels of the glutseus muscle bleed, so as to be troublesome, and cannot be stopped by compression, they must be secured. If the sciatic artery be the vessel injured, the incision should be made in the same direction, but about an inch and a half lower down. If the course of the wound render it doubtful which artery has been wounded, the incision should be as nearly as possible between the two lines directed, the wound being always the best guide; care should be taken in every instance to include nothing in the ligature but the artery. 223. Compression should never be made on the femoral artery, when a ligature is about to be placed upon it for aneurism, because the pulsation is thereby suppressed, and the most important guide to the vessel is at the same time taken away. When the artery has been wounded near the groin, and is bleeding, compression must be had recourse to in the first instance to arrest the htemorrhage; the first incisions