Wounds penetrating the Wall of the Belly, 520 navel, passing in a direction upwards, penetrating the second lumbar vertebra, and protruding an inch and a half on the opposite side. On examining the wound, the ramrod was found firmly fixed in the bone. It was endeavoured, at first, to extract it by a gentle turn, making extension at the same time; but this failed. Force was then applied on the opposite side, by fixing the broad end of a ramrod on the point of the protruding one, which was laid bare by an incision, when by a smart stroke with a stone it was driven back and removed. Bleeding to twenty ounces. March 20th.—Has slept several hours during the night; passed urine two or three times; suffers slight pain occasionally on turning himself in bed; has the perfect use of his lower extremities; pulse rather full; skin cool; repeat bleeding to twenty ounces. 22nd.—No evacuation since the 20th; pulse rather full; bleeding to twenty-two ounces; sulphate of magnesia, one ounce. Seven o'clock a.m.: Medicine operated three or four times; feels no pain in passing water. 23rd.—Has passed a good night; wounds dressed; is allowed a small proportion of bread with his tea. 28th.—So far recovered as to be able to be removed to Elvas.* That a blunt instrument, like the small end of a ramrod, should be forced between the loose viscera of the abdomen without wounding any of them, may be easily conceived; but that balls or sharp-pointed swords should do so is not to be understood so easily. Ambrose Pare, our own Wiseman, Ravaton, Lamotte, Muys, and others, however, have related instances of this kind, in which the patients recovered in an inconceivably short space of time; but these and other re- coveries of a similar nature must be considered as exceptions to a general rule. 385. Wounds penetrating the wall of the belly, when made by cutting or lacerating instruments, or by musket-balls, are usually followed, if to any extent, by a protrusion of some portion of the contents of the cavity, generally of the omentum * He marched with his regiment in the summer to Valladolid, and was drowned in the Douro.—G. J. G.