330 Fracture of the Inner Table. unfavourable symptoms never having been entirely removed, increase so much at a later period as to render the aid of operative surgery necessary, for the removal of the bone, in order to save life. M. A. Farnham, aged twenty-three, a stout healthy-look- ing girl, received a blow, two years before, from a stone falling from a door-way under which she was passing; it struck her upon the left side of the head at a spot an inch anterior to the parietal prominence, the weight of the stone, and the space through which it fell, making the estimated force with which it struck the head equal to sixteen pounds. The immediate effect of the blow was insensibility, followed by acute fixed pain in the head, which has ever since continued to mark the seat of injury. A week after the receipt of the blow she began to lose the power of moving the right arm, there being however no loss of sensation or any disturbance of the cere- bral functions. During the following twelve months the symptoms re- mained unchanged; this period was spent in several London hospitals; not having derived any relief whilst in any of these institutions, she became an out-patient of the Westminster Hospital. . . The arm and leg of the right side were quite paralytic, the former, which had previously been flaccid, having now become remarkably rigid, its temperature being below that of the opposite side; vision, particularly of the left eye, ^perfect the pupils however acting naturally; hearing on that side also affected; memory bad; respiration frequently slow and almost stertorous; the countenance had assumed a dull heavy expres- sion, and she manifested an unusual tendency to sleep. April 1st, I841.-Mr. Guthrie this day removed a disc of bone from the exact point in the parietal region to which she referred the pain. The portion of bone presented no evidence of disease; its thickness varied from two and a half to four lines, the latter measurement corresponding to the part most distant from the sagittal suture; the vessels of the <Moebled freely, the dura mater was quite healthy, and without any ve. y evident motion. . , On visiting her an hour after the operation, she raised the