Ecchymosis. Conclusions. 439 aided by keeping the wound generally dependent. This con- tinued for several days, gradually becoming less in quantity, and purulent; and under careful management he was able to go to the rear, nearly well, by the end of October. 333. On the subject of the ecchymosis, which Valentin con- siders to be a pathognomonic sign of effusion of blood within the chest, he says, " It is very dissimilar to that which occurs after a blow or wound, and which takes place shortly after the accident, beginning around the wound if there be one, and extending from it. The patient also complains of pain when the bruised part is pressed by the fingers. These characters are not observed in the ecchymosis, the sign of effusion, which always takes place near the angles of the lower or false ribs descending towards the loins. Its colour is identical with that which appears on the abdomen of persons some time after death, a bright violet, {violet tres eclairci.) It appears about ten days after the receipt of the injury, sometimes later." The same sort of thing he thinks takes place when the cavity of the chest is filled with pus, but that cedematous swelling is without discolouration. • 334. In order to be explicit on points so important as those of which I have treated, I have thought it right to lay down certain general conclusions, subject to occasional deviations. a. All incised or punctured wounds of the chest should be closed as quickly as possible, by a continuous suture through the skin only, and a compress supported by adhesive plasters, the patient being afterwards placed on the wounded side—a precept which is absolute only with respect'to incised wounds, capable of being united by suture in the manner directed. b. As soon as the presence of even a serous fluid in the chest is ascertained to be in sufficient quantity to compress the lung, a counter-opening should be made in the place of election for its evacuation by the trocar and canula, which may be afterwards enlarged; unless the re-opening of the wound should be thought preferable, which will not be the case unless it should be low in the chest. c. If blood flow freely from a small opening, the wound should be enlarged, so as to show whether it does or does not flow from within the cavity. If it evidently proceed from a