Typhoid Pleuritis. 401 and well marked, those of the latent affection of the lung are not so prominent or even observable. The patient complains but little, and sometimes not at all of his chest, until attention is drawn to it by a slight cough, and difficulty of respiration, attended by a character of countenance which usually indi- cates embarrassment in the functions of the lung. It may be brought on by a common non-penetrating injury of the chest. In typhoid pneumonia, general bleeding, if admissible, is to be had recourse to with extreme caution, even in young and robust persons. Local depletion is oftentimes useful, and perhaps ought alone to be relied upon. The great dependence is on calomel and opium, and after such local depletion as may be thought advisable, counter-irritation by blistering, and the administration of stimulants, such as camphor, ammonia, and wine, in small and repeated quantities. Mild aperients only should be employed, and anodyne injections are frequently useful. Whilst auscultation has thrown a clear and steady light on the nature of the mischief which is going on, it has added little or nothing dissimilar to the practice pursued some forty years ago. The nature of the hepatization or solidification which takes place in the lung in typhoid pneumonia has given rise to some difference of opinion among morbid anatomists, who incline to believe, from the rapidity with which it takes place, and with which it is sometimes re- moved, that it depends more on passive congestion, and on a typhoid alteration of the state of the blood, than on an altered action in the vessels of the part. This opinion does not seem to be fully supported by dissection, unless it be generally ad- mitted that grey hepatization, and the third stage of disease of the lungs in pneumonia, mean simple congestion. When the patient survives the imminence of danger in which he is placed by the attack of the disease, and the ex- pectoration becomes copious, with great emaciation, quick pulse, and hectic fever, a slight infusion of senega with am- monia, or of cinchona, with a mild and well-regulated diet, and change of air and climate, answer best in aiding recovery. A typhoid pleuritis is presumed to exist, as a distinct disease from typhoid pneumonia, although the analogy between them is admitted to be close; like it the disease is latent and more M M 2