Treatment of. 573 accident permit the urine to flow into the cavity of the abdo- men, the patient may be free from immediate danger for a short time, although very anxious and greatly depressed in countenance and manner, and even sick to vomiting. The pain is not commonly severe at first, and if he can make water, which in all such cases it is desirable to prevent, it is more or less coloured or mixed with blood. If the urine should not escape into the cavity of the abdomen, the ordinary inflammation which must necessarily ensue takes place, and affects the internal surface of the bladder. The desire to pass urine becomes greater, and is frequently insupportable, whilst it can in some cases be only passed by drops. In others these symptoms are less urgent. Nevertheless, the natural action of the bladder, or, in those severe cases, the additional efforts which are made for its expulsion by the abdominal muscles, may cause the urine to be forced through the wound into the cavity of the abdomen, whence the advan- tage to be obtained from the early use of the elastic catheter. When the orifices of entrance and of exit are free, and low down in the pelvis, the urine may run out without much immediate mischief ensuing. But as this cannot always be known, an elastic gum catheter should from the first be intro- duced, and fixed in the bladder, in every case where the nature of the injury is doubtful, until the urine ceases to flow through the wounds. It must, however, be recollected that in some cases in which it has caused great irritation, by being introduced too early, and whilst the bladder was very sensi- tive, the patients have been much relieved by its removal. The principle is nevertheless incontrovertible in all doubtful cases; the urine should be allowed to drop out of the catheter nearly as fast as it passes into the bladder, when this organ is very irritable; great pains should also be taken that the end of the instrument should be within, but not too far within the bladder, so as to excite irritation by rubbing against its sides or to allow its end rising above the urine which might in this way collect below it, and at last escape through the wounds. 416. The inflammatory actions are to be subdued by general bleeding, the application of leeches, the administration of diluent drinks in moderate quantity, the exhibition of gentle