Case of Captain Selon 218 these circumstances it was deemed advisable to apply a liga- ture on the external iliac artery, and give the patient a chance of the occurrence of coagulation in the tumour, and closure of the wounded vessel, before the free re-establishment of the circulation through the femoral artery. In the present case it was supposed that mortification of the limb was all the less likely to occur from the circumstance that the greater part of the effusion appeared in front of the abdominal parietes, and therefore exercised less pressure on the femoral vein than if further extension into the thigh had taken place. The danger of peritonitis was by this pro- posal made a new element in the calculation; but it was esti- mated that the chances of this and mortification of the limb, taken together, were less unfavourable than the chances of immediate and secondary haemorrhage attaching to the opera- tion of tying the artery at the spot injured. The operation being completed, the right foot, leg, and thigh were enveloped in lamb's-wool and flannel, and the limb elevated on an in- clined plane of pillows, so as to favour the return of blood as much as possible, and prevent venous congestion. The day on which the operation was performed was passed in consider- able pain, the patient being restless, and complaining of a sense of burning in the limb. An anodyne, however, secured him a tolerably good night's rest. The day after, the limb was found altogether diminished in bulk, and its temperature equal to that of the healthy limb; no return of pulsation had taken place in the tumour. The same evening some tenderness and tension of the abdomen came on, though the bowels had been kept in a regular state by occasional small doses of castor oil. In the morning of the second day, pain in the belly, with increased tension, hurried breathing, short dry cough, and tenderness over the lower part of the abdomen, were observed. Pulse quicker and small. Leeches were applied, and three- grain doses of calomel, with a little Dover's powder, ordered every three hours. The symptoms, however, became rapidly worse- the patient complained of severe pain in the right leg, and a sensation of great heat over the whole body, although the actual temperature was rapidly falling below the natural standard. The right leg also became cold sooner than the