Metallic Tinkling. 415 when the right is affected; in some cases it even descends into the epigastrium, or is otherwise removed from its natural situation, even towards the axilla, although the left side is supposed to be more obnoxious to this complaint than the right. The pulse becomes exceedingly quick and small, countenance pale, nights sleepless. The affected side is often- times evidently dilated, and the intercostal spaces may be less marked, or partly filled up, when the respiratory motion given to the parts under ordinary circumstances is seen to be deficient. But these differences, as well as that which can be obtained by comparing both sides by measurement, are not so marked as when the cavity is filled by fluid, of which in pneumo-thorax there is always a small quantity effused. Percussion beginning from above, in the erect position, will give, in cases in which it is ascertained that respiration is null, a clear tympanitic sound, as low as the level of the fluid, when it changes abruptly to a dull sound, or that indicating its presence. If the patient be then placed in the recumbent position, the clear sound can be heard above, the dull one below, demonstrating the change in the situation of the air and of the fluid. Auscultation, in addition to the absence of respiration, when the chest is fully expanded, discovers no respiratory murmur; but a peculiar sound called tintement metallique, or metallic tinkling, is heard at intervals, parti- cularly on the patient's coughing, speaking, or breatLing. It is imitated by dropping a pin into a large wine-glass. It, how- ever, more nearly resembles the sound of a jew's-harp in the hands of a child, and once heard cannot be mistaken. It is a distinctive sound of pneumo-thorax. Mr. Cornish, a medical practitioner, having suffered an attack of pleuritis, nearly expired from suffocation on Monday, the 29th December, 1828. He was lying on his right side, breathing most laboriously; countenance sunk; pulse be- tween 130 and HO; had had no sleep for many nights. The action of all the respiratory muscles was painful to be- hold; no perceptible difference in the size or shape of the two sides. The right emitted an extremely dull sound; the left sounded hollow throughout. The apex of the heart was beating rather to the right of the right nipple. The respira-