•17 Injuries of Nerves. tumour of a most painful character, requiring removal, or in extreme cases even the amputation of the extremity. 35. After an ordinary amputation, the extremity of a nerve enlarges so as to resemble a leek, and if this should adhere to the cicatrix of the wound, painful symptoms, referred to the toes and other parts of the removed leg, are experienced often to an almost unbearable degree, when it must be treated in a similar manner to obtain relief. The pain apparently felt in and referred to the toes is merely the effect of irritation of the extremity of the nerve. 36. "Wounds or injuries of nerves, which do not entirely divide the trunk or a principal branch given off from a plexus of nerves, may give rise to general as well as local symptoms— that is, by sympathy, connexion, or continuity of disease, other nerves and organs of the body are affected. This applies also to the spinal marrow, when the injury does not destroy at once. General Sir James Kempt was wounded at the storming of the castle of Badajos, on the inside of the left great toe, by a musket-ball, which from the appearance of a slit-like opening was supposed to have rebounded from the bone, but was dis- covered a fortnight afterwards,flattened and lying between this and the next toe. Inflammation had ensued, followed by great irritability and numerous spasmodic attacks,appearing torender locked-jaw probable. The spasms soon became more general, extending from the foot to the head, but tetanus did not take place; on his return to England, they gradually subsided, but he did not sleep at night for a year. After the battle of Waterloo the spasms became more frequent and troublesome, attacking the muscles at the back of the neck and throat, causing considerable anxiety. The attack was often traced to exposing the foot to cold or to undue pressure, and fre- quently to derangement of stomach, although he was most regular in diet. After the lapse of six or seven years these severe symptoms subsided, but he now, at the end of forty years, suffers occasionally from them. Admiral Sir Philip Broke received a cut with a sword on boarding the Chesapeake, on the left side of the back of the head, which went through his skull, rendering the brain visible, which wound healed in six months, although splinters of bone