Amaurosis without a Dilated Pupil 499 When a ball lodges behind the eye, it usually causes pro- trusion, inflammation, and suppuration of that organ. If it be not discovered by the usual means, its lodgment may be sus- pected from the gradual protrusion and inflammation of the eye itself. If it be discovered, it should be removed together with the eye, if such proceeding be necessary for its exposure. If suppuration have commenced in the eye, a deep incision into the organ will arrest, if not prevent, the horrible suffer- ings about to take place, and allow of the removal of the offending cause. If the back part of the eye be left with the muscles attached to it, a stump remains, against which an artificial eye may be fitted, so as sometimes to render the loss of the natural one almost unobservable. 367.1 have several times seen both eyes destroyed and sunk by one ball, with little other inconvenience to the patient; one eye sunk, the other amaurotic, and both even amaurotic, almost without a sign of injury, by balls which had passed from side to side through both orbits, but behind the eyes. When the eye becomes amaurotic from a lesion of the first branch of the fifth pair of nerves, the pupil does not become dilated; the iris retains its usual action, although the retina may be insensible and vision destroyed. This was well shown in the case of the late Major-General Sir A. Leith, who was wounded by a sword in the forehead, this nerve being divided. It has so often occurred as to leave no doubt of the fact, and of the error formerly existing on this point. 368. Penetrating wounds implicating the bones of the face are always distressing. When the bones of the nose are carried away, there must always be some deformity remaining, although there is oftentimes but little suffering. When these bones are merely splintered and depressed, great pains should be taken to keep them properly elevated. If the duct of the parotid gland be implicated by an incised wound, care should be taken to divide the cheek into the mouth, if it should not have been already done, and to keep the inside wound open until the external one is closed. If a salivary fistula have formed externally, from inattention, or otherwise, it must be treated according to the ordinary methods adopted in such cases. When a wound of the gland itself becomes fistulous,