Such Wounds cause great Suffering. 577 418. These cases give, however, a brighter view of the nature of these wounds than they frequently justify; extravasation of urine, inflammation, and death, are not of infrequent occur- rence in cases to which strict attention is not paid; and great misery is often caused, from the irritation of the bladder and the discharge which follows, until the constitution is under- mined, and death ensues. Captain Sleigh, of the 100th Regiment, was wounded at the battle of Chippewa, on the 5th of July, 1814, by a musket-ball, which entered the left groin, immediately over Poupart's ligament, by the side of the spermatic vessels, injuring in its course the anterior brim of the pelvis. It thence passed through the bladder obliquely across the pelvis, and terminated its course beneath the integuments in the right buttock, whence it was immediately extracted. Blood and urine flowed incessantly from the groin; the quantity of blood lost was considerable. He complained much of pain in the hypo- gastric region; the abdomen was tense and painful to the touch, and he had an almost continued inclination to mic- turate; but his attempts, after the most painful efforts, were entirely frustrated. The anxiety was great, the respiration hurried, and the pulse quick and fluttering. He was bled to the extent of thirty ounces; an enema was given; fomenta- tions applied to the belly; and the catheter introduced; all which afforded him some relief. The next day he was re- moved to the rear, a distance of seventeen miles in an open wagon, partly during the inclemency of the night, and was quite worn out by so long a journey. He was carried thence on board ship, and landed at York, on the morning of the 9th of July, the fourth day after he received his wound. July 9trr.—Abdomen tense and painful to the touch; severe pain in the perineum; great inclination to void urine, but fruitlessly; wound in the groin sloughy, discharges urine and blood, mixed with a small quantity of pus; posterior wound healthy, no discharge of urine from it; catheter attempted to be passed without success. Ordered au ounce and a half of castor-oil, immediately. 10th.—Passed a restless night; had two copious stools; voided a few drops of urine by the urethra; still great dnclina- D D D