Illustrative Cases. 325 globules. The portion of the brain in this situation did not appear to have been disturbed by the recent violence, except that from the upper part of the cavity a probe was admitted without any resistance into the descending horn of the right lateral ventricle, which, together with the one on the opposite side, was filled with a large quantity of bloody serum, none of which, however, had escaped into the cavity beneath. The brain generally appeared perfectly healthy, and not more vas- cular than usual. Even within a line of the yellow deposit above mentioned there appeared not the slightest change of structure. On removing the dura mater from the base of the skull, indications of a former fracture were discovered, leading vertically down through the squamous portion of the temporal bone, whence it appeared to have been continued along the anterior part of the petrous portion into the Vidian canal; the edges of this fracture, both internally and externally, had been rounded by absorption; it was met at right angles by another which ran across the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The direction of the last fracture was marked by numerous small rough particles of bone, which adhered so slightly to the rest that they separated on mace- ration. The transverse ligament of the second vertebra was ruptured, and the atlas forced forward. The connexion between the articular processes of the second and third cervical vertebras on the right side, had also been separated by the fall which had caused death. Wm. Clayton, forty-four years of age, was admitted on the 31st of July, 1841, into the Westminster Hospital, having received a blow on the eight side of his head from the handle of a windlass, by which his skull was fractured. The fracture extended downwards from the parietal bone across the tem- poral, and in all probability through its petrous portion, as blood flowed freely from the ear for the first six hours; he was stunned for a few minutes at first,but became sensible by the time he was brought to the hospital. The bleeding from the ear was followed by the discharge of a fluid resembling water—which is a very dangerous symptom, as it usually flows from the sac of the arachnoid membrane—and afterwards at intervals by a discharge of blood and matter, particularly, he 1