564 Wounds of the Spermatic Cord and Testis. part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and came out behind, injuring apparently the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae. As urine came through this opening, the ureter or lower part of the kidney must have been wounded, and as he had lost the use of one leg, and much of that of the other, the spinal mar- row must also have been injured. He was left on the field of battle, supposed to be about to die, and was brought to me to the village of Valverde three days afterwards in a most distressing state. The inflammatory symptoms had been and were severe; the pain he suffered on any attempt to move him was excessive; the discharge of faeces from the an- terior wound, and of urine from the posterior one, and by the usual ways rendered him miserable, and he at last implored me to allow the box of opium pills, of which one was given at night to each man who stood most in need of them, to be left within his reach, if I would not kindly do the act of a friend, and give them to him myself. He died at the end of ten days, after great suffering, constantly regretting that our feelings as Christians caused their prolongation. 412. Wounds of the spermatic cord are of infrequent occur- rence, and rarely lead to fatal, although often to inconvenient consequences. I have removed the bruised and shattered remains of a testis and epidydimis to expedite the cure, and I have been obliged to do so at a later period in consequence of the wounded portion becoming enlarged and diseased. These occurrences are rare; the wound in the testis usually heals kindly; but the portion which remains, however, is probably of little use, although the patient does not like to lose it. I have not had occasion to tie an artery, even when the penis has been as good as amputated. If bleeding should take place in the progress of the cure, a large catheter should be introduced into the urethra, as a point on which pressure may be made laterally; for I am not aware of any other use it can be, unless the urethra be also torn, when a moderate- sized catheter should be kept in it permanently, if it can be borne, to aid in the healing of the surrounding parts, with as little contraction as possible of the canal. When the corpus spongiosum has been carried away or sloughs with the urethra,