Punctured Wounds of Arteries. 206 the artery, took it carefully out, and found that its divided end was irregularly torn; a slight contraction had taken place just above, but not sufficient to have been of the slightest utility in suppressing the bleeding, which was in fact prevented by an external coagulum, which filled up the ragged extremity of the vessel, and which in a few days would have been re- moved with the purulent discharge. At Salamanca, I had the opportunity of examining the thigh of a French soldier, whose femoral artery had been divided perhaps even higher up by a cannon-shot. He lived until the next morning, when I saw him, no operation whatever having been attempted, nor a tourniquet applied. He died exhausted, but not from any immediate bleeding, which when once stopped had not returned. The artery was in a similar state to the preceding one, with this slight difference, that the ori- fice was a little more contracted; the external coagulum filled up the ragged end of the artery, and was slightly compressed, within, by the contraction, which kept it in its place. The rest of the coagulum filled the hollow in the surrounding parts, which the retraction of the artery had occasioned. In this case, so unlike those I have hitherto noticed, the first natural cause giving rise to the suppression of the bleeding was the diminution of the power of the heart ; the second, the forma- tion of a coagulum in the hollow of the sheath left by the re- traction of the artery. Contraction had begun, but had done nothing essential. In other instances in which I have examined the extremities of such large arteries when divided, the appearances have been more or less of a similar nature; unless where the persons had died immediately, when the torn extremities were found quite open, and with little surrounding coagulum. 190. A small puncture in an artery made with a needle, will sometimes heal, as it generally does in dogs. I have, however, seen several instances in which the femoral artery was wounded by a tenaculum during amputation, and a secondary haemorrhage followed after ulceration, requiring the applica- tion of a ligature. A larger puncture, or a longitudinal slit of from one to two lines in extent, does not commonly unite, except under pressure, although the edges of the wound may