Wounds of the Pelvis: Case of Colonel Wade. 567 sometimes at the seat of injury, but more usually extending to the thigh and to the extremities of the nerves in the foot. I was consulted in a case of wound in the last dorsal or upper lumbar vertebra of several years' standing, from a pistol-sbotj in which the paralysis of both limbs was complete. The patient had a great desire to have the cicatrix opened, and the ball followed and extracted, and would willingly have submitted to such an operation, but he could not find anyone in London or Paris willing to attempt it. When a ball appears to cross or to pass even from side to side of the pelvis, it is not always easy to say whether it has penetrated the cavity or not, until symptoms indicative of such injury appear; the less done to such wounds the better. When a ball enters, strikes a bone, and lodges, it is very de- sirable to ascertain its situation, in order that it may be at once removed, if it can possibly be done with but little compara- tive danger; for balls which lodge in these flat bones may often be removed, and the comfort of the patient assured, by a timely operation, instead of proving the source of much torment and misery for many years by their being allowed to remain. The late Colonel Wade, one of the most distinguished officers of his rank in Spain, was wounded at the battle of Albuhera, in 1811, by a musket-ball on the left side; it passed through the ilium, and was supposed to have narrowly avoided opening into the cavity of the abdomen. It could not be fol- lowed beyond the bone. The inflammatory symptoms were subdued in the usual time, and he gradually recovered his health, some pieces of bone coming away from time to time. A small fungous protrusion and discharge continued from the wound for several years, with a certain degree of pain, and of occasional lameness in the leg and thigh. The wound closed sometimes for a few months, and reopened after an attack of pain, with great lameness and swelling of the hip, and a dis- charge of matter from the original site. An abscess at last formed under the gluteus maximus, and was opened at its anterior and lower edge. This gave great relief and pre- vented the irritation of the upper and anterior original wound, the matter finding a more ready passage. I often