Number of Inspirations and of the Pulse. 379 the existence of a cavity at that part; but the word is unne- cessary, or, if used, it means that the cavern or hollow com- municating directly with the trachea gives forth a similar or nearly similar sound, a natural sound in an unnatural position. The essential difference between bronchophony and tracheo- phony in the investigation of disease is, that in bronchophony there is no articulation distinctly heard as in tracheophony. Over the larynx, it is louder, hoarser, and rougher. The length of the sound in inspiration, as compared with that of expiration, has been said to be five to two. One is louder and longer than the other, a difference requiring attention, from the circumstance, that morbid sounds of great import are heard in inspiration, which do not prevail during expiration. When any other difference is perceptible between them, so that they more nearly resemble each other in dura- tion, or in intensity, or when expiration is prolonged, some structural alteration may be suspected in old persons, some disease in young ones. "When little or no respiratory mur- mur can be heard after symptoms of inflammation have ex- isted for some time, the case is very serious, implying that effusion into the cavity, or condensation of the lung, has taken place to a considerable extent. 298. The number of inspirations in a minute in the adult and elderly person varies from eighteen to twenty-two in a state of health: from twenty-two to twenty-six in children. The stroke of the pulse is generally as four to one. If the inspira- tions are eighteen the pulse will in general be seventy-two. Both may be slower, although they are often quicker under disease. When the breathing is slower, it commonly indi- cates some affection of the nervous system; when very rapid, some important lesion within the chest. It having been supposed that a sound lung never fills the bag of the pleura, particularly towards the diaphragm, at least during ordinary respiration, I requested Mr. Quekett, one of the Conservators of the College of Surgeons, to ascer- tain this by experiments on some sheep at the moment of their being killed; and it appeared from them that the base of the luug is always in contact with the surface of the dia- phragm.