339 Illustrative Cases. lately supposed to do mischief, that is to be dreaded in these cases, but the same kind of irritation which often follows the abstraction of apiece of bone under other and more ordinary circumstances at a later period of time. The following cases are illustrative of many important points:— "William Eogers, aged nineteen, of the 32nd regiment, was wounded on the 16th of June by a musket-ball, which entered at the inferior angle of the left parietal bone, knocked him down, and for a few minutes rendered him insensible. On recovering his mental powers, he found that he was unable to speak, not so much (as he said afterwards) from the want of power to form words, as from the incapacity of giving them sound. He was conscious of everything passing around him, and reasoned correctly. He retired out of the reach of shot, and then lay down for the night. On the following morning, he went to Brussels, where he was examined and dressed. On the morning of the 18th he reached Antwerp on horseback, very giddy, and overwhelmed with fatigue, fasting, and watch- ing; he was admitted into the Minime General Hospital, and put to bed, when he soon fell into a sound sleep, which with some tea refreshed him much. June 19th. The ball was found to have passed obliquely upward and backward at least two inches, and could be dis- tinctly felt with a probe. It gave more the idea of having raised the outer table than that of having depressed the inner. The defect in speech was in some measure diminished, and this with giddiness were the only symptoms of compres- sion. A poultice was placed over the wound, a sharp purga- tive given, and spoon diet ordered. 20th. The pain and giddiness having increased, with annoy- ance from noise and exposure to light, twenty-six ounces of blood were taken from the arm. The following day the pur- gative was repeated, and the patient was much relieved. Everything went on well, the wound was nearly healed, and he was considered almost fit to be discharged, when, on the '16th of July, the wound began to open; on the 18th it was dilated and a portion of the cranium removed by the forceps, which was soon followed by symptoms of inflammation of