461 Case of Mr. Drummond. low down, about two inches from the spine, and three inches from the inferior angle of the scapula; it was afterwards found to have entered between the eleventh and twelfth ribs, and to have passed between the base of the lung and the dia- phragm, abrading the former, and passing through the latter into the abdomen, ultimately lodging in the fat under the skin, over the cartilage of the eighth rib of the left side, nearly at an opposite point in front. From the absence of all symptoms of shock and alarm, it was hoped by some that the ball might have run round, but on the removal of the little ball its course could not be traced. This occurred on Friday. On Saturday morning at five o'clock he suffered great un- easiness, and difficulty of breathing, accompanied by a par- ticular catch or jerk in respiration, indicating a wound of the diaphragm. The stethoscope and the ear attested the clear- ness of the respiratory murmur in every part of the chest, which sounded well, and I was satisfied the lung was not materially injured; twelve ounces of blood were drawn with difficulty from both arms. At ten o'clock, the jerk and diffi- culty of breathing being greater, the left temporal artery was opened,as no blood could be drawn from the veins; five ounces only could be obtained; a dose of calomel and a senna draught had been followed by the discharge of a teaspoonful or two of blood, leaving no doubt on my mind that the ball had penetrated the cavity of the abdomen, as well as of the chest, and that a bowel had been injured. With a constitution apparently unequal to bear an inflammation of the most dangerous character, or the remedies necessary to subdue it, the prospect was but melancholy. Thirty-six leeches were applied around the wound in front, but they drew little blood. Pulse from 108 to 112. Dr. Hume, Mr. B. Cooper, and Mr. Jackson, were added in consultation until Monday at twelve, when the jerk became worse, the oppression in breathing greater. Muriate of morphia, half a grain; at two bled to twelve ounces; blood very buffy; calomel, two grains, opium,half a grain; every two hours. In the evening, bleeding repeated to fourteen ounces; no more would flow. Tuesday morning, at five, bled again to twelve ounces. The ear now indicated effusion for the first time. It was not, however, in sufficient R a 2