Gun-shot Fracture of the Arm. 143 have hoIe9 cut in them to allow a vent for the discharge and for the application of dressings; or if a portion of the splint, say the middle, should require removal altogether for this purpose, the upper and lower parts may be united by a semicircular bar of iron, at the pleasure of the surgeon; within this the dressings may be applied, and by it the splint will be rendered firm.* When the leg is thus slung, the knee is somewhat bent, the thigh is raised, the muscles of the leg behind are relaxed, and the patient can be moved with much greater facility than with any other apparatus; one great advantage of this apparatus is, that it can be used with effect even if the patient be obliged to lie on the ground. It admits of being slung as a whole in a spring cart, by additional but strong elastic straps fastened to, or applied on the under part of the board, and thus a double slinging motion may be obtained, when the sufferer is obliged to be moved. These splints are so portable that they may be carried into the field or upon the deck of a ship, to bring the patient to the surgeon. 158. Bearers were formerly made extempore from a blanket and the poles of two sergeant's halberts, when they were not sent from England solid, and too heavy for carriage. Half a dozen pairs of long poles made light and of tough wood, which might always be replaced without difficulty, and a good thick ticking for each pair, having a case or pipe on each side, in which the poles might run, ought to be a part of the surgical stores of each regiment on service in time of war. Two short irons, having at each end a ring through which the poles may run, will keep the ticking or sacking extended and the patient flat and immoveable, unless shaken by accident. The sacking will roll up into little compass if the poles should not be forthcoming, or are not wanted; and, when the ground is damp, will make an excellent bed as well as a covering for the doctor. 159. The arm, when fractured by musket-shot, admits even of more strenuous efforts being made to save it; from its * This apparatus has been, I think, improved upon at the Bristol Hospital, by the addition of a bar on each side of the centre one.