260 Ligature of tlte External Iliac Artery. iliac artery, above the origin of the epigastric and circumflexa ilii arteries. The iliac artery is placed upon the outer side of the vein; the next step in the operation consists in gently separating the vein from the artery by the extremity of a director, or by the end of the finger. The solid curved aneu- rismal needle is then passed under the artery, and between it and the vein from without inwards, carrying a ligature, which being brought out at the wound, the needle is with- drawn, and the ligature is then tied around the artery, as in the operation for popliteal aneurism. One end of the ligature being cut away, the other is suspended from the wound, the edges of which are brought together by adhesive plaster, and the wound is treated as any other containing a ligature." This method of operating will suffice when the artery is to be tied for an aneurism, which does not extend as high as Poupart's ligament. When it does, the operator will be so much inconvenienced by it, whilst the sound part of the artery above the tumour will be so much in a hollow behind it in the pelvis, that a ligature cannot be readily passed around it; the disturbance to the peritoneum will be much greater, and much more likely to give rise to peritonitis, than if the incision were made an inch longer on the face of the abdomen. The surgeon, instead of searching for the artery, as Sir Astley Cooper has directed, through the passage by which the spermatic cord quits the abdomen, and thus passing the fingers directly under the peritoneum, will find it very much for his own ease, and for the advantage of his patient, to pass his fingers under the peritoneum from the inside of the wall of the ilium, from which it readily separates, and thus approach the artery from the outside, instead of from below. He will obtain more room, reach the artery easily above the origin of the circumflexa ilii, and avoid that distur- bance of the peritoneum, in applying the ligature, which often leads to inflammation. The ligature should be passed under the artery from within outwards, so as to avoid the vein, which I have seen injured by passing the needle from without inwards. If the surgeon have unluckily divided the epigastric artery, either in this or in any other operation, all that he has to do is