368 Frequent Application of Trephine. and yielding of the last layer of bone is very sensibly felt by the hand, and when sawing, the surgeon can use the trephine as a slight lever with great effect, by pressing on a particular part, or from side to side, and the inner layer of the vitreous table may be in this manner as much broken as sawn through. The piece to be removed should never be brought away in the crown of the trephine, but should be raised by the forceps and lever; whenever a rough edge of the inner table remains, it should be carefully rounded off with the lenticular or blunt-ended instrument commonly used for that .purpose. 290. Whenever there has been a loss of the integuments or scalp, so that this part cannot be brought over the opening made by the removal of the bone, some fine soft cotton should belaid on the dura mater,so that a slight degree of support may be given to that membrane, more particularly when it is thought that it may not be necessary to examine it for two or three days When circumstances appear to render a daily inspection necessary, the cut portions of scalp should be brought over the opening, and retained by a slight compress and bandage kept constantly wet and cold. The dura mater usually changes colour and becomes more red; a layer of lymph is seen ad- hering to it, from which granulations arise and spring up until they touch the scalp, to which they unite, or cicatrization takes place. When the patient dies early from other causes, and the calvarium has been raised, the discoloured spot on the dura mater marks the place from over which the bone was removed. I have seen this in a state of slough, and the only apparent discoverable mark of disease. One of the improvements in modern surgery is to be found in the restriction which has gradually been placed on the re- peated use of the trephine on the same person, and on the removal of large portions of the skull. Cases are not, how- ever, wanting in the older authors which would appear to justify the proceeding, although it may perhaps be said that they only show how great an extent of injury may sometimes be committed with impunity. Saviard trepanned one person twenty times. Russ Mai tol and Le Gendre, surgeons to the king of Navarre, say that in