346 Depressed bone on the back of the head. remove at once all portions of bone or foreign substances which have materially injured the dura mater in adults, although no symptoms of compression should be observed. If the wound in the dura mater should not be sufficiently large to allow the offending body to be extracted through it, the opening must be increased to enable it to be withdrawn with- out further laceration. 274. Depressed portions of bone, accompanied by fracture on the bach part of the head, need not necessarily be removed in the first instance. When the fractured and depressed bone is accompanied by symptoms of compression in an adult, which continue after the usual antiphlogistic means and remedies have been employed in vain, and appear to increase rather than to diminish, the broken and depressed portion should be raised; for although the brain will bear and accommodate itself to pressure in many persons in a manner which could not be either foreseen or expected, it will not do so in all; and the removal of the bone offers the best chance for relief, whether the mischief has arisen from the pressure made by it, or occurs from the extravasation of blood beneath. When the principal symptom of compression is a severe fixed pain in the part, although the state of the fracture and depression would not alone have rendered the removal of the bone posi- tively necessary, it is advisable to do so when this symptom is present. The greatest discrimination is required in cases where the extent of the injury is not so manifest, and in which there is more room for doubt. In most cases in which a slight or moderate degree of fracture and depression of the skull has taken place, the symptoms of concussion are present as well as those of compression. The symptoms of concussion are, however, coeval with the injury; and although those of com- pression may take place almost instantaneously, they more usually occur at a later period of time. The symptoms of concussion may nevertheless continue for days, more par- ticularly the insensibility, or that state which is approaching to it, complicating the case and embarrassing the practitioner. In a child or young person the symptoms of compression or irritation, when they appear even at a secondary period,