246 Opinion of Parisian Surgeons. As there is already a wound in the neck made by the surgeon, there would be little difficulty, by extending it, in ascertaining that the blood came from the brain, and that nothing but a ligature on the internal carotid artery, above the part wounded through the mouth, could save the patient; and why not do this operation at first, and place a ligature above, and another below, the wound in the artery ? 214. It is with great satisfaction I quote the opinion of M. Velpeau on this subject,asshowing the greater advance Parisian surgeons have made, than even many of high attainments in London:—"In haemorrhage from the neck, the mouth, the throat, the ear, or the skull, everything should be done to reach the branch of the carotid which is wounded, rather than tie the carotid itself." Alluding to a wound of the inferior pharyngeal artery, he says: * The search for this artery will cause but little or no inconvenience, for the same incision will suffice for the ligature of the external or internal carotid, the lingual, the facial, or the superior thyroid artery, if it become necessary, each artery being capable of being taken hold of and compressed, until the one which is really wounded is ascertained." He further adds: " Surgeons found it formerly more convenient and sure to tie the primitive trunk of the carotid, for all arterial diseases of the head, than to tie the external or internal carotid or their branches; but this is not admissible in the present day." Operating for a tumour between the left temple, which he considered aneu- rismal, he first tied the common trunk of the carotid, and then the internal. The tumour diminished in size, but hemorrhage took place from the wound, and was frequently repeated until the sixteenth day, when the patient died hemiplegiac. The haemorrhage came from the external carotid, and the blood escaped through the upper opening of the common carotid. He says himself he ought to have tied the external carotid also; or, after the first bleeding, have applied a ligature on the upper end of the common trunk. 215 Dr. Twitchell, of Keene, N. H., United States, says a soldier, in a sham fight, in 1807, received a wound from the wadding of a pistol on the right side of the head, face, and neck, which were much burned. A large wound was made