Crepitating Rattle. 386 larynx, and in the bronchi, until the patient is destroj-ed. In some rare cases the matter secreted is spit up nearly to the last, and in others, still more rare, the approach of death in the last stage is characterized by a brown expectoration -which cannot be mistaken for either of the others which preceded it. If the pneumonia pass into the chronic state, the expecto- ration becomes yellowish, or somewhat greenish, and at last is purely catarrhal. Delirium is not an uncommon symptom, when the inflam- mation of the lung is intense in persons of powerful consti- tutions, particularly during the exacerbation of fever in the night. It yields with the other symptoms when relief is obtained. When, however, it comes on at a later period of the complaint, or when the accompanying fever is not purely inflammatory, or in persons weakened by exhaustion and privation, it is usually a fatal symptom if continued. When mild, it often occurs after repeated and efficient bleedings, which have subdued, but not entirely removed the disease; and yields to opiates and geptle stimulants, by which the pain is removed, although it sometimes remains in a milder degree than before. The ear discovers, soon after the commencement of the disease, that the natural murmur cannot be distinctly heard, it having been at first partly obscured, and after a time entirely superseded by a peculiar noise, called a crepitating or crepitous rattle or rhonchus. In its purest state it has been likened to the sound of a lock of hair rubbed close to the ear, or to that made by rumpling a fine piece of parchment; or again, to that which is produced by what under ordinary circumstances is called the crepitation of salt, when scattered in small quantities on red-hot coals. This crepitating rhonchus is heard at first in a small part of the lung, generally at the lower, rather than at the upper part; it marks the first stage of the disease. It is not of long continuance; the vesicular murmur is either restored, or the crepitating rhonchus ceases to be heard, in consequence of the second stage to this, or that of hepatization, having commenced; the small air- vesicles are no longer pervious; the sound of the breathing, which is now heard, is that of the air more forcibly driven