118 Amputation at the Shoulder-joint. been recommended for its performance. In none should the acromion or coracoid process be exposed, unless previously injured. Neither is it necessary to lose time, or to give pain, by depriving the glenoid cavity of its cartilage; but it should always be borne in mind, that if the nerves be not shortened after the removal of the arm, they may be included in or adhere to the cicatrix, and cause, during a long life, much dis- tressing pain to the sufferer. 111. Amputation at the shoulder-joint, performed imme- diately after the receipt of an injury, is now a very simple ope- ration; for which simplicity English surgery is indebted to the Peninsular war. As a secondary operation, or done at a later period, when the parts are all impacted together, it is some- what less so. In both stages it is absolutely necessary to remember—1st. That except in cases of disease, and not of injury, the shaft of the bone must be broken; and that all the directions usually given for rotation of the arm inwards and outwards during the operation, are unnecessary cruelties not to be attempted with a broken bone. 2nd. That the arm should always be raised from the side and supported by the hand of an assistant, who can feel, if he please, at any time of the operation, the pulsation of the axillary artery; and all opera- tive methods are condemned, in which this precautionary measure is not the first step. 112. Operation by two flaps, external and internal—The outer, beginning near an inch below the acromion process, (the hair in the axilla having been previously removed,) is to be carried down with a gentle curve so deeply as to divide the deltoid muscle, and to show the long head of the triceps at its under and outer edge. The second incision is to be carried in a similar direction on the inside, through the deltoid muscle, but need not divide the insertion of the pectoralis major, which should be exposed. These flaps being held back, the joint will be seen and readily opened into at its upper part, by cutting upon the head of the bone, in doing which the long tendon of the biceps will be divided, allowing the head of the humerus to drop from the glenoid cavity sufficiently to admit the fore- finger of the left hand, on which the supra-spinatus, infra- spinatus, and teres minor may be cut through externally, as they