Local Mortification perhaps be distinctly drawn between them at the end of three, four, or more days, it will be better to err on the side of ampu- tation than of delay. If the limb should be swollen or in- flamed to any distance, with some constitutional symptoms, in a doubtful habit of body, the termination will in general be unfavourable, whichever course be adopted, more particularly if the amputation must be done above the knee. The con- sideration of the circumstances in which the patient is placed, his age, and his habit of body, should have great weight in forming a decision, in the first instance, as to the propriety of attempting to save the limb. 28. Whenever the main artery of a limb is injured by a musket-ball, mortification of the extremity will frequently be the result, particularly if it be the femoral artery; and it will be of certain occurrence if both artery and vein are injured, although they may not be either torn or divided. There may not then, be such a sudden loss of blood, in considerable quantity, as to lead to the suspicion of the vessel being injured. The fact is known from the patient's soon complain- ing of coldness in the toes and foot, accompanied by pain, felt especially in the back part or calf of the leg, together with an alteration of the appearance of the skin of the toes and instep, which, when once seen, can never be mistaken. It assumes the colour of a tallow candle, and soon of mottled soap; although there may be little loss of temperature under ordi- nary circumstances of comfort, there is a feeling of numbness, but it is only at a later period that the foot becomes insensible. This change marks the extent of present mischief. The tem- perature of the limb above is somewhat higher than natural, and some slight indications of inflammatory action may be observed as high as the ham, and the upper part of the tibia iu front; and it is at these parts that the mortification usually stops when it is arrested. The general state of the patient, during the first three or four days, is but little affected, and there is not that appearance of countenance which usually accompanies mortification from constitutional causes. In a day or two more, the gangrene will frequently extend, when the limb swells, becomes painful,and more streaked or mottled in colour; the swelling passes the knee, the patient becomes feverish, anxious, delirious, and dies.