343 Remarks on them. but the bone was not depressed: he was bled freely, but re- mained insensible. The next morning he was again bled to twenty ounces, which operation was repeated in the evening. On the 29th, the temporal artery was opened, and a vein in his arm at the same time; the breathing being strong and sonorous, the eyes closely shut, and he lay quite insensible; the pulse before the bleeding was quick and small; after he had lost about eight ounces of arterial and eight ounces of venous blood, it became fuller, and the breathing was some- what relieved; the slightest touch gave him pain, and he shrunk from pressure made directly above the eye. The temporal artery was again opened in the evening, and ten ounces of blood were taken away. A purgative, and a stimu- lating enema, were ordered, and cold was constantly applied to the head. 30th. He has been freely purged, and appears more col- lected; the pulse is still quick and small; breathing very free; the irritability continues, and he complains of pain on pressing the head. The purgative and the enema were repeated, and ten ounces of blood were drawn from the temporal artery; after which he attempted to speak. 31st. Passed a good night; the pulse is quick and small; pain in the head still great; was again bled to twelve ounces, and the purgative was repeated. June 1st. Pulse quick; there is not so much pain in the in- jured part, and he appears more sensible; was bled to twenty- four ounces, and the purgative was repeated. 3rd. Was again bled to ten ounces. From this time until the 20th he gradually improved, and was then discharged cured. The treatment in these cases was the same, although in one there was no fracture, and in the other two there was fracture with depression. The broken portions of bone did not, in Clut- terbuck,appear to press unequally on the dura mater,and it was presumed that the moderate degree of pressure which ensued from the depression might be borne with impunity, as it did not seem likely to be accompanied by the projection inwards of any pointed pieces which might irritate the brain. The result confirmed the supposition, and justified the treatment. If the examination of the depressed part had led to the ap- prehension that such points of bone did exist, and were stick-