necessarily of rare occurrence in Gunshot Wounds. 425 ascertained by the feelings of the patient. The application of a broad flannel bandage, so as to restrain the motions of the chest, and to cause the sufferer to breathe by the dia- phragm, has been recommended from the earliest periods of surgery; but many persons with injured or broken ribs cannot bear the pressure of a bandage, whilst others derive much ease from its use; although a tight bandage generally dis- agrees when the injury has been sustained at the lower part of the chest, and is more frequently useful when the fracture is above the fifth or sixth rib. When the emphysematous swelling extends so as to invade a considerable portion of the body, the further diffusion of air should be prevented by punctures made through the skin in such places as may be thought necessary, and in extreme cases even by incisions; but these are things more often spoken and written about than practised, or than are even necessary. 323. Mr. J. Bell had so alarmed all military surgeons by stating, m his able discourses on the Nature and Cure of Wounds, that emphysema was "peculiarly frequent in gunshot 7.7 I °f, !!ie Ch6St' b°th at the orifice of entl'ance and of exit of the ball, that they thought of little else. They could not withstand the brilliant manner in which this remarkable error-for error it is-was expressed. To such of us as had served the first part of the war in Portugal it was no longer a bugbear; we slept in peace after the battles of Rolica and Vimiera, of Corunna, of Oporto, and Talavera - Whin* perhaps a little at the credulity of the surgical portion of mankind for the opening made by a musket-ball rarely admits of emphysema. A slanting wound made by a pistol- ball may sometimes give rise to it. After long and tortuous wounds made by swords or lances it is more often seen, but then it takes places shortly after the receipt of the injury A soldier, at the battle of Albuhera, was wounded in the right side of the chest by a sword, which had passed slantingly under the shoulder-blade, from which injury he did not suffer much, until the whole side, as well as the body and neck began to swell and impede his breathing, which was effected with some difficulty, and only with any ease when sitting up o o 2