Case of General R. Crawford. 467 A soldier of the 29th Eegiraent was wounded at Talavera by a musket-ball, which penetrated the right side of the chest, between the fourth and fifth ribs, and lodged. He died the day after, and on opening the body, I found that the ball had passed through the lung, and was lying loose on the ribs behind, near the union of the diaphragm with the spine. Major-General Sir Robert Crawford was wounded at the foot of the smaller breach at the storming of Ciudad Eodrigo, by a musket-ball, which passed through the posterior fold of the armpit, and entered the side of the chest in the axilla by a small opening or slit apparently too small to allow a ball to pass through. I saw him a few minutes afterwards, with Dr. Robb, under whose care he remained, when, from the general anxiety manifested, I was satisfied as to the severity of the injury. The symptoms were not at first urgent; but their con- tinuance and augmentation, in spite of the most rigorous anti- phlogistic treatment, led, in a few days, to his death. On examination of the body, the ball was found lying on the diaphragm; the cavity of the chest contained a large quan- tity of very turbid serum; false membranes had formed on the lungs, which were compressed towards the spine, and at the upper part retained the mark of an injury as from a ball which had not had force enough to penetrate and lodge. Baron Larrey has had the good fortune to meet with some remarkable cases of this kind. In the first he did not see the man for some weeks after the wound had been inflicted, the ball entering the upper edge of the fourth rib, about an inch from its junction with the cartilage. By means of a bent and flexible sound introduced through the wound, he distinguished a hard, metallic substance at the bottom of the cavity of the chest, which he supposed to be the ball, and nearly in the situation of the place where the operation for empyema is usually performed. This operation having been done, about twelve ounces of pus escaped, and the ball was discovered rather flattened. It was easily removed with the aid of a pair of polypus forceps. After this there was every prospect of recovery, until the patient, unfortunately, having one day drank too much brandy, was attacked by enteritis, and died. William Barrett, of the Life-Guards, a middle-aged, mus-