Internal Carotid tied by Dr. Keith. 249 the internal pterygoid muscle, which is to be divided. The surgeon will next be able to raise and partially evert the angle of the jaw, and thus obtain room for the performance of the remaining part of the operation,-which should be effected by the pointed but blunt end of a scalpel, or other instrument chosen for the purpose of separating, but not of cutting. The styloid process of the temporal bone may then be readily felt, and exposed by the separation of a little cel- lular membrane, and with it the stylo-hyoid muscle, which is to be carefully raised and divided. The external carotid artery will thus be brought into view, together with the stylo- pharyngeus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve attached to it. These are to be drawn inwards by a blunt hook, when, if care be taken to avoid the pneumogastric nerve, the in- ternal carotid may be felt, seen, and secured by ligature with comparative facility outside the tonsil, there being between them the superior constrictor of the pharynx, which, in a case of wound through the mouth, must have been divided. The pneumogastric nerve should be drawn outwards, and the ex- ternal carotid artery also, if in the way. The division of the jaw will not lead to future inconvenience, as the bone always re-unites when divided, with little difficulty. That this ope- ration requires a thorough knowledge of the anatomy of the parts is true, and this can only be acquired by repeated dis- sections. 217. The nearest successful case to the operation thus recommended was performed by Dr. Keith, of Aberdeen. E. Kennedy, aged twenty-five, accidentally swallowed a pin, the head of which could be felt below and behind the left tonsil, covered by the lining membrane of the pharynx; it could not be extracted by any attempt made for its removal. The membrane was snipped by a pair of probe- pointed scissors, to expose the head of the pin. This was followed by the discharge of mouthsful of arterial blood, and it was evident that the internal carotid artery had been injured. Pressure on the common carotid stopped the bleeding, and the operation of placing a ligature on the internal carotid was effected in the following manner: The patient's head being supported by a pillow, her face was