223 Surgical Precepts. the contrary. The patient will die of mortification from the want of blood in the limb, if the circulation be not re-esta- blished; and if this should take place, blood must find its way into the lower end of the wounded artery, and perhaps even into the upper, and renew the haemorrhage. If the femoral artery had been wounded, as was supposed in this case, but not completely divided, it must, and would, have continued to bleed, through the external wound, until the patient died, or a ligature had been placed upon it. It has been said, that in the case as it actually occurred, the little artery which was divided, and which had not bled for some days, could not have been safely tied, if it had bled again, because it was only an inch long; but this is said in defiance of every sort of proof which has been given to the contrary. As far back as 1815 I said, " there was no foundation for the theory which declared that a ligature when placed on an artery such as the femoral would fail, if in the immediate vicinity of a collateral branch, in consequence of the flow of blood through this vessel preventing the obstruction and con- solidation of the main branch for a distance sufficient to enable it to resist the impulse of the blood behind." This was said from pure practical facts, free from all kinds of theory; and the preparation before alluded to, in the museum of the College of Surgeons, in which I tied the common iliac artery, will show the mark of a simple thread around it, and a single line of adhesion resisting the whole power of the heart, the canal above the spot not being obliterated. The seventh error committed in this case was in contra- vening the great surgical precept, formed on no inconsiderable experience during the early part of the war in the Peninsula, " not to perform an operation on an artery until it bleeds." 194. When a wound occurs in the thigh, implicating the femoral artery or its branches, and the bleeding cannot be re- strained by a moderate but regulated compression on the trunk of the vessel, and perhaps on the injured part, recourse should be had to an operation, by which both ends of the injured artery may be secured by ligature; and the impracticability of doing this should be ascertained only by the failure of the attempt.