Interesting Cases. 560 Dr. Beaumont of the American Army, of St. Martin, who in 1822 received an extensive wound in the stomach, which became fistulous, admitting of a variety of most interesting inquiries being made into the process of digestion, is remark- able. Hevin has related some of the most interesting cases of those who had swallowed knives, &c, by design or by accident, and whose stomachs were opened for their removal. The most ridiculous story of the whole is an instructive one, however. Some young students, desirous of punishing a young woman who had offended them, cut short the hair of the tail of a large pig, and when frozen hard, forcibly pushed it up her anus, leaving a couple of inches only hanging out of the small end or tip. The hairs having been cut short caught in the gut when attempts were made to draw out the tail, and gave her inexpressible pain. The most serious symptoms followed during six days, and every attempt having failed, Marchetti was applied to. He prepared a hollow tube, two feet long, and large enough to receive the thickest part of the pig's tail, to the end of which he fastened a strong waxed cord, which he drew through the tube. This he carefully introduced into the anus, pushing it over the pig-tail, until he drew the whole of it into the tube, which he then brought away including the tail, to the great relief of the sufferer. 409. The necessity for an operation so grave as that of open- ing the stomach must be shown by the presumed impossibility of the foreign substances being dissolved, or of their passing out of it by any other means; whilst the continued distress they occasion more than equals the risk which is likely to be incurred. The offending substance ought to be felt through the wall of the abdomen, and the incision for its removal should be made between the recti muscles in the linea alba, unless the foreign body have actually pierced the stomach, and can be felt to the outside of the rectus muscle, at which part the incision ought to be made obliquely in the direction of the fibres of the external oblique muscle, all bleeding vessels being secured before the peritoneum is opened. This having been accomplished, the protruding body should be extracted by such enlargement of the opening in the stomach as may be