Rigid Treatment of such Injuries. 518 be allowed than may be found requisite to moisten the lips, and allay any intolerable thirst which may ensue. This pre- caution need not be carried out so strictly, if it could be readily ascertained that an intestine was not wounded; but as this knowledge, however satisfactory it would be, cannot always be obtained, and ought not in the generality of in- stances to be sought for, the restriction should be fully observed, if possible. In all cases of injury of the belly there is more or less shock, alarm, and anxiety. It is sometimes remarkably great, even when the mischief has not been con- siderable. "When little or no injury has been inflicted on the intestines, the natural and usual action of expelling the con- tents is generally delayed beyond the time at which in health it would in all probability have occurred. When nature shall point out, by the sensations of the patient, an inclination to perform this function, it may be assisted by an injection of warm water, or of any mild laxative which may facilitate the process, and prevent any unnecessary action of the abdominal muscles, against which the patient should be cautioned. The attendants should be forewarned that the position of the patient is not to be interfered with, under any circumstances; the necessary arrangements being made by bedsteads of a proper construction, or by other simple means, which are sufficiently well known. 383. The custom of directing a man to be bled forthwith, as well as purged, because he had been stabbed, was another error much in esteem by the older surgeons, but which experience did not sanction, and could not, therefore, be approved. The abstraction of blood before reaction has taken place delays its occurrence, as well as the commencement of that inflam- matory stage, which is to be so salutary in its result in favour- able cases. It tends to prevent the agglutinative process from taking place, and thus aids the diffusion of inflammation over the whole surface of the peritoneum. The general ab- straction of blood is to be ordered, and regulated as to quan- tity by the symptoms of inflammation which may accompany or follow reaction. The quantity of blood required to be taken away in these cases is usually large, in many cases very large, particularly at an early period. It is, however, often a nice