283 Ligature of the Ulnar A rtery. bleeding artery; if he be careful not to divide the median nerve, no inconvenience will arise from the operation. (Aph. 1S4, page 193.) 239. If the ulnar artery be wounded near its origin, through the radial side of the pronator teres muscle, an incision should be made through the integuments and the aponeurosis of the biceps muscle; the pronator muscle being then laid bare, it is to be drawn inwards and downwards or towards the ulna, and the dissection continued until the median nerve is exposed. The probe introduced through the original wound will lead to the artery, the pulsation of which will be felt and the bleeding seen. Where the nerve crosses the artery, the vessel will be found above or to the radial side of it, and to the ulnar side below. It may be tied above without dividing a muscular fibre; but at the part where the nerve crosses and below it, some fibres of the pronator teres must be divided, and in some cases the whole of them, before the artery can be properly secured by two ligatures; but this division is of little or no consequence, as the muscular fibres reunite without difliculty. 240. To tie the ulnar artery in the middle third of the arm, the surgeon should bend the wrist, and trace upwards the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris as far as it can be felt. At the point where it becomes indistinct, an incision should be commenced and carried upwards for the space of four inches; the fascia is then to be divided to the same ex- tent, when the flexor carpi ulnaris may readily be traced upwards by its tendon, which is on the radial side of it; this muscle may then be easily separated from the flexor sublimis, beneath the edge of which the artery will be found covered by the deep-seated fascia, having a vein on each side, and the ulnar nerve to the ulnar side of it. By this method of proceeding, the artery will be readily exposed, which is not always the case by any other manner of operating, and it may be tied as high up as where it passes from under the flexors of the arm. The ulnar artery may be easily tied near the wrist, where it is most superficial. Bend the wrist, and make the flexor carpi ulnaris act, when the tendon will be felt internal to the styloid process of the ulna; make an incision two