Conclusions. 470 M. Baudens says himself, and rightly, that the operation of opening into the chest should have been performed in the eleventh intercostal space, and that the 'wound in front should have been enlarged. M. Baudens relates another case, in which the posterior wound, situated near the angle of the tenth rib, had healed; the anterior one, half an inch below the clavicle, giving issue to an abundant and weakening suppuration. The lung above this was permeable to air, but the respiratory murmur could not be heard below it. To draw off this offensive fluid, he adapted an empty caoutchouc bag to a gum-elastic canula, which he affixed against the orifice of the wound, and then sucked out six pints in five days. Some days later the wound behind re-opened, and a piece of bone was discharged from it, which saved the man's life. Two years afterwards he was seen in good health. The desire to have as dependent an opening in the chest as possible in these injuries has been manifested by all sur- geons of experience; and the interspaces between the ninth and tenth, and between the tenth and eleventh ribs, have been often selected for this purpose; but as the operation was formerly done with the trocar, the abdomen was as often opened as the thorax, and death was frequently thus caused, even if it would not have been occasioned by the disease. To prevent, or to avoid this evil, M. Baudens advises its being performed at three fingers' distance from the spine, by inci- sion, and he says he has frequently done it with success, although he does not give any circumstantial directions as to the operative method to be pursued. I therefore caused several experiments and dissections to be made in the work- room of the College of Surgeons, with the following results:— 348.—1. That a trocar and canula pushed in between the eleventh and twelfth ribs, in a diagonal direction upwards, on a line with the angle of the ribs generally, will in the dead body invariably enter the cavity of the chest without injuring the diaphragm. 2. That the same operation performed on the living body would, in all probability, if done at the moment of expiration, first enter the thorax, then pierce the diaphragm, and thus