376 Illustrative Cases. A soldier of the 40th regiment slipped from the ladder on which he was attempting to scale the wall near the great breach of Badajos, and fell on his cartridge-box, which hurt his left side so much as to render him unable to move for some time. On the 8th of April he was much worse. The part injured was painful to the touch, the difficulty of breathing considerable, cough hard, with little expectoration; pulse 90, skin hot, appetite gone, tongue white. V.S. ad gxvj. and aperients.—9th. Better; pain less; expectoration more m quantity, and viscid. V.S. ad $xii.; antimonials—10th. Pain still felt on coughing; expectoration reddish; difficulty of breathing greater. Pil. Cal. et Antim. c. Opio; V.S. ad Sxvj. He gradually recovered (his mouth having become slightly sore) from what was manifestly an attack of pneumonia. A gentleman, in 1835, fell from his shooting-pony on his powder-horn, which bruised his right side from the seventh to the last rib, and, as he said, knocked the breath out of his body, and hurt him so much as to render him incapable of walking from one room to another, from pain in the side, back, and thigh. No bones were broken. The pain, on the second day, was augmented on breathing and on attempting to cough. The third day he was purged and blooded to sixteen ounces, which gave some relief; but as the symptoms increased on the fourth day, he was more carefully examined. His right side could not bear pressure. The respiratory murmur was distinct, but accompanied by a crepitating rhonchus under the part injured. Cough troublesome; expectoration mucous, viscid, and of a reddish tinge. Antim. tart. and sulphas mag- nesiee, every four hours; V.S. ad Sxiv.-On the fifth day, the symptoms being little altered, he was cupped on the part affected to fourteen ounces.-On the sixth, the pain was only felt on coughing, or on drawing a very full breath; expecto- ration redder and thicker; pulse quicker. The rhonchus was quite as distinct. V.S. ad gsij, and the medicines to be con- tinued. After this he quickly recovered and the natural respiration became distinct. _ _ Lieutenant Cooke Tylden Patterson, of the Light Division, was struck on the left breast by a musket-ball, on the morning of the 15th of July, 1813, in front of the village