Contraction to the next Collateral Branch not necessary. 201 Whilst this process is going on without, and at the very extremity of the artery, the vessel is gradually contracted above it and its coats become more or less inflamed, soft, and vascular. The inner layers are seen to be wrinkled trans- versely, and a small coagulum of blood is formed within them. This sometimes completely fills the artery, but it is more common for a small tapering coagululn to be formed, adher- ing by its base to the extremity of the vessel; the white colour of which renders it distinctly observable, when con- trasted either with the coagulum, or the inner coat of the artery, which latter is usually of a red or scarlet colour whilst the inflammatory action is going on. A coagulum, contrary to the usually received opinion, is not absolutely necessary to the permanent closure of the artery, although it certainly assists in maintaining it. An artery is also supposed to con- tract gradually up to its first collateral branch; but this is not always the case, and depends entirely on the use for which the branch is required. After amputation at the middle of the arm, the artery will go on diminishing in size up to the subscapular branch; the circumflex arteries diminishing in proportion, in consequence of their being so much less necessai'y than before the operation. In several instances the principal artery has remained pervious below the col- lateral branch, the next immediately above the part where the ligature has been applied. Neither will the pre- sence of a collateral branch immediately above where the ligature has been placed upon the artery always interfere with the consolidation of the wound, and the closure of the canal of the vessel. It may impede the process, and render it for a time less safe, and in some instances prevent it altogether, but I have so often seen large arteries heal after division close to the giving off of a considerable branch, that I consider them to be always capable of doing so, provided they are naturally sound. If they are not sound, it is very doubtful what process may take place; but it will be less likely to be a healthy one, if interfered with by the immediate proximity of a collateral branch. The power which suppresses haemorrhage in a bleeding artery, resides, it must be borne in mind, in the very extremity of the vessel itself. In 1834 I placed a ligature of strong dentist's silk on the