20 Course of a Ball. usually circular, depressed, of a livid colour, and capable of admitting the little finger, the exit being more ragged, and not depressed, whilst it is sometimes little more than a small slit or rent, although at others, as in the face or in the back of the hand, it may be much torn, giving to an otherwise simple wound a frightful appearance, but which is not seen in the thigh, or other equally firm fleshy part. 9. Wounds from flattened or irregular-shaped musket-balls, pieces of shells, or other sharp-edged destructive instruments, are often very much lacerated, and their entrance is less marked. The parts thus torn can generally be preserved, and the wound healed with little comparative loss of substance. 10. When it is desirable to ascertain the exact course of a ball, and, if possible, the internal part injured by it, the sufferer should be placed in the position he was in on receiving the injury, and with especial reference to the probable situation of the enemy, when that will often become very intelligible which was before indistinct. My attention was directed, after the battle of Toulouse, to a soldier, whose foot was gan- grenous without a cause, he having received merely a flesh wound in the thigh, not in the course of the main artery, which, nevertheless, I said was injured. On placing the man in the same position with regard to us, that he supposed himself to have been in towards the enemy when wounded, the possibility of such an injury was seen; and his dissection after death proved the correctness of the opinion. 11. When one opening only can be seen, it is presumed the ball has lodged; but this does not follow, although the finger of the surgeon may pass into the wound for some distance. At the battle of Vimiera, I pulled a piece of shirt, with a ball at the bottom of it, out of the thigh of an officer of the 40th regiment, into which it had gone for at least three inches. After the battle of Toulouse, a ball, which penetrated the surface of the chest, and passed under the pectoral muscle for two inches, was ejected by the elasticity of the rib against which it struck. Scarcely any inconvenience followed, and the officer rapidly re- covered. After the battle of Waterloo,I was requested to decide whether a young officer should be allowed to die in a few days, or to have a chance for life by losing his leg above the knee.