324 Fracture of the Base not necessar ily Fatal. pulse rose to 76, aud the breathing, which before was rather oppressed, became more free. He was ordered six grains of calomel, followed by moderate doses of senna, till the bowels should be relieved. He continued progressively mending, but in a state of stupidity accompanied by extreme listlessness; answered ques- tions sullenly, and frequently rested upon one arm without appearing conscious of pain; the mouth was drawn to the left side, to which there had been a slight tendency for some days; the tongue not at all affected. He continued under treatment for three weeks longer, soon after which he was permitted to resume his employment, the mouth being still drawn in some degree to the left side. His habits became silent and solitary, but he performed his task with the greatest exactness. He was occasionally subject to vertigo, particularly in hot weather, after any violent exertion or taking a small quantity of beer; a pint of ale would render him stupid or insensible. Six months afterwards he was found dead, lying in a ditch. Sectio Cadaveris.—The nasal bones were fractured by a blow which had made a transverse incision in the upper part of the face. The femur was found fractured upon the right side, and the scalp puffy and ecchymosed on the left. On removing the skull-cap, the dura mater appeared perfectly healthy, without any sign of extravasated blood upon the surface. Be- neath the pia mater on the left side, the sulci of the brain were filled with black blood, apparently very recently effused. The brain was removed without the least violence, when a lesion was found upon its inferior surface, corresponding to the petrous portion of the right temporal bone. The dura mater in this situation was externally of its natural structure, and adhered with its usual degree of firmness to the bone be- neath. The arachnoid and pia mater were here deficient; the lesion consisted of a cavity about fifteen lines in length, nine in breadth, and three in depth, coated with a light yellow lining, which also adhered to the corresponding portion of the inner surface of the dura mater, which completed the walls of the cavity inferiorly: it contained a turbid serum, in which were seen floating numerous exceedingly minute white