486 Symptoms attending Wounds of the Heart. principally on the altered state of the endocardium, or mem- brane lining its cavities; the sounds given off, and called exo- cardial, on an altered state of the serous membrane of the pericardium, reflected over the outer surface of the heart. The endocardial or bellows-sound, when it accompanies the normal sounds of the heart, may result from any kind of derangement affecting the internal membrane of that organ, particularly rheumatic inflammation, or from any force which may compress its cavities; it may depend on the altered quality of the blood, from anemia. It should be present after excessive haemorrhages have greatly reduced the powers of the sufferer. When this murmur or sound occurs after injury in the vicinity of the heart, and is accompanied by fever, it indicates inflammation of the lining membrane, although no local pain, no palpitations, nor irregular movements of the heart be present. When a murmur or sound is heard of a different kind, possessing the character of friction, or of surfaces moving backwards and forwards on each other, or to and fro,—this sound is the sign of inflammation of the membrane covering the heart, as well as of that lining the fibrous external tissue of the pericardium. The signs of both external and internal inflammation may be present at the same time, and they frequently are in cases of acute rheumatism. 357. When the heart is supposed to be wounded, even with- out much loss of blood, there is fainting; palpitation; irregular movement or total cessation of its action; coldness of the ex- tremities; ghastliness of countenance, succeeded by great anxiety; a sense of anguish; an intermission or cessation of pulse, followed, if the patient should survive, by reaction, which renders it very frequent, and sometimes increases its impulse, whilst the anxiety is increased by pain, sometimes intolerable, referred to the part. These symptoms imply a serious injury, although they may not all be present, and many of them differ in intensity. If the patient should survive, the ordinary sounds of the heart will return, with more or less irregularity, accompanied after a few hours by the endocardial murmur, although something like it may perhaps be observed from the first period of injury. The