124 Amputation of the Arm. excision, if circumstances should render it necessary. No bad symptoms, however, supervened; the man only complained of the restraint put upon him, and the lowness of his diet. Some pieces of bone came away, or were removed, and in July he was sent to England, the wound being healed and free from pain; the shoulder stiff. The lower arm he used as before the accident. These cases were fortunate in their results, but such do not always follow. Major C was wounded in the battles of the Pyrenees in 1813, by a musket-ball, which injured the head of the left humerus from side to side. Thirty years afterwards the wounds still discharged, and gave him great uneasiness. A probe discovered much diseased bone. I advised the excision of the head of the bone, to which he would not assent. His courage had been broken by continued suffering. These cases are given to show the practice of that war at its termination, among those whose opportunities enabled them to judge rightly of what surgery could or could not do, without having recourse to amputation. 119. Whenever the head of the humerus is broken, with considerable injury to the soft parts around, it will always be better to saw off the broken part of the bone in the first instance, and to retain the remaining portion as clearly as possible in apposition with the glenoid cavity. The suffering will in the end be less, and the cure be effected, in general, without the loss of the arm. If, from some complication of injury, the axillary or other artery should give way during the treatment, the extremity is not to be amputated. The artery is to be secured by one ligature applied above the opening in it, and another below it; the surgeon always bearing in mind the fact, that the proper way to get at the axillary artery is by cutting across the fibres of the pectoral muscle, and not in the direction of them; and that the ligature of the subclavian is not to be resorted to, until nothing else remains to be done by which the hajmor- rhage is likely to be suppressed. 120. Amputation of the arm by the common circular in- cision should only be practised in the space between the lower