353 without Pulsation indicates Fluid beneath. the whole he was quite well, and would not be bled, nor have anything done. He was bled largely by force, which lowered the strength of the pulse, but did not relieve any of the symp- toms of irritation of the brain. On the 25th he was evidently worse, although he declared himself to be quite well; he talked a little incoherently; the pupils were dilated; the pulse quick but regular; the countenance was changed; he was sensible apparently upon all points except that of being much worse, which he resolutely denied, saying he was better and would soon be well. Satisfied that matter was forming or had formed in or on his brain, I desired that the trephine might be applied on the fractured part, and the bone removed. This however he would no.t permit the officers in charge to do, and they awaited my return in the afternoon, when, finding him much worse, I directed it to be done by force, three of his own regiment with others attending to assist the surgeons. He called upon these men by name not to allow him to be murdered in cold blood, declared he was getting well, and would get well if let alone, and prayed them to avenge his death on the doctors if they meddled with him. The surgeons were dismayed, and left the operation, which they said re- quired great care, to be performed by me their chief; I there- fore removed the bone, and the moment it was taken away the dura mater rose up into the opening to the level of the surrounding bone, and remained without any pulsatory motion. I had no doubt of matter being beneath, and that from his general state the man would die. I did not therefore think it prudent under all circumstances to do more than warn his comrades that when dead they would see the whole brain beneath in a state of suppuration. He died that night, and the next day they saw the whole of the left hemisphere soft, yellow, and covered with matter. Absalom Lorimer, of the 42nd regiment, was wounded by a musket-ball on the 10th of April, 1814, at the battle of Toulouse, which carried away a small portion of the scalp just above the right temple, fracturing the bone slightly, but without any depression. No symptoms occurred demanding more than the ordinary attention for the first fortnight, during which period he had been bled once, purged, and kept on low n n 2