Symptoms of Concussion. 292 is little or no desire for food, the whole person feels more or less deranged, and the pulse quickens. A smart purgative will perhaps relieve all these manifestations of approaching evil, hut the loss of a little blood will be more certainly efficacious. A child ten years of age fell over the banisters into the passage, and struck its forehead. It was taken up apparently lifeless, but it soon appeared that it was only stunned; it breathed deeply, looked about vacantly, and could not speak; it then vomited, and gradually recovered its speech and senses. A brisk purgative was all that was required to remove the slight headache which followed on the subsequent day. In more dangerous cases which ultimately prove fatal, the laceration of the brain alluded to, complicates the mis- chief as well as the symptoms, and is perhaps the actual cause of death. It has, however, been demonstrated that a slighter injury of the kind, giving rise to long-continued symptoms, need not necessarily be fatal; in which case it is supposed that the cure is effected by adhesion, and not by granulation and the secretion of purulent matter. 247. "When a concussion of the brain has rendered the sufferer insensible and motionless, the countenance is deadly pale, (the reverse of what takes place in sanguineous apoplexy;) the pulse is not discoverable; the man does not appear to breathe. It is useless to open his veins, for they cannot bleed until he begins to recover, and then the loss of blood would probably kill him. It is as improper to put strong drinks into his mouth, for he cannot swallow; and if he should be so far recovered as to make the attempt, they might possibly enter the larynx and destroy him. If he should appear to breathe, and be made to inhale very strong stimula- ting salts, they will probably give rise to inflammation of the inside of his nose and throat, to his subsequent great distress- Mild stimulants and disagreeably smelling substances, together with partial as well as general friction with the warm hands, are the best means to be adopted, and should be continued until it be ascertained that life is extinct. If the patient should recover, some signs of breathing will be dis- coverable, followed by a distinct inspiration, repeated at so