Operation for Hernia of the Diaphragm. 15 tress, but is not necessarily mortal, sometimes for many years. The great fact, however, is established, and that by gentle- men who are presumed to be the gentlest of doctors, that the whole length of the abdomen of a lady may be laid open by a clean cut, her ovarium, and occasionally both, taken out, and that the patient may recover. I have, years since, invariably said, that a mere incision into the belly was not necessarily mortal, except under bad treatment, and the proof has now been fully given. It is possible you may now begin to suspect that I have not given you the episode of Elboden and Saca Parte for the sake of story-telling. It was to enable me to draw an inference, and to conclude with a precept. "When a man has recovered from a wound which has been supposed to have left a hole in his diaphragm, he must not clean a horse, nor tie his own shoes, nor even bend his back, beyond making a bow—I do not forbid that—if he cannot help it. He must eat sparingly at a time, drink less, and sleep as much as possible in a somewhat raised position. "When, however, all possible precautions have been taken in vain, and he is distinctly suffering from the symptoms of an internal strangulated hernia of the part sup- posed to have been injured, and is likely to die unless relieved, what is to be done ? "Why, you must make an incision through the wall of his abdomen, (as the accoucheurs do in this part of the ladies,) just over the suspected spot; introduce your hand through this cut.feel with your forefinger for the hole in the dia- phragm, and withdraw the strangulated part, even if it should be necessary to enlarge the hole in the diaphragm by a blunt- pointed bistoury. If it should have formed attachments and cannot be withdrawn, the strangulation may be relieved and the patient survive. It is an operation you can practise every time you open a dead body, and it will be a great triumph for surgery to save the life of even one person labouring under an infirmity otherwise at this moment invariably mortal. It will be my reward for the extra labour I went through in 1811. Wounds of the abdomen are, perhaps, more dangerous than those of the chest, and several points in connexion with them have received the earnest attention of several surgeons of great repute. The general and efficient knowledge of tho subject