Heart Insensible to the Touch. 491 ventricle from which it had been sliced being puckered and covered by a serous membrane like the heart itself. The lance then penetrated the central tendon of the diaphragm, making an oval opening, easily admitting the finger, the edges being smooth and well defined. It then entered the liver, on the surface of which there was a small irregular mark or cicatrix. The heart in front was attached to the pericardium by some strong bands, the result of adhesive inflammation, but the general appearance of the serous membrane showed that this had not been either great or extensive. The pericardium was not thickened. If this man had lived long enough, he might have furnished an instance of hernia of the stomach or of intestine into the pericardium. The preparation is in the military museum at Chatham, Class I, div. 1, sect. 7, No. 156. That the heart when exposed is insensible, or nearly so, to the touch, was known to Galen and to Harvey. Galen is said to have removed a part of the sternum and pericardium, and to have laid his finger on the heart. Harvey did the same on the son of Lord Montgomery, who was wounded in the chest. Professor J. K. Jung not only introduced needles into the hearts of animals, but also galvanised them without disad- vantage, although Admiral Villeneuve is supposed to have died suddenly from running a pin into his heart with a suicidal intention. That a person may die from the shock of a blow on the heart, need not be doubted, and that they do die when little blood is lost, is admitted. History preserves the fact, that Latour d'Auvergne, Captain of the 46th demi-brigade, who had obtained the honourable title of "Premier Grenadier de France," fell and died immediately after receiving a wound from a lance at Neustadt, in the month of July, of the sixth year of the Republic; it struck the left ventricle of the heart, near its apex, but did not penetrate its cavity. He was, however, sixty-eight years of age. 361. In wounds of the heart, all extraneous matters should be removed if possible, and all inflammatory symptoms should be subdued by general bleeding, by leeches, by calomel, anti- mony, opium, &c. The chest should be examined daily 9