The Muscular Coat of the Intestines. 509 injected the parts around are more vascular, the ulcerated portion being less so than usual. The solitary glands are best seen in the ccecum and appendix veriniformis. They are well developed in the foetus, projecting slightly above the mucous membrane. Each gland may be considered as one of the agminated form, much enlarged, and when the free surface is very flat, an opening may be easily seen in the centre. These glands are also frequently the seat of ulceration in fever and dysentery, and particularly in phthisis. The follicles partake of this disease, and the whole mucous coat may be destroyed. In some cases there is an attempt at healing, and the edges of the ulcers become more vascular, and even villous. The sub-mucous areolar tissue,—the tunica nervosa of Haller, the fibrous lamella of Cruveilhier,—separating yet connecting the mucous with the muscular coat of the intestine, is composed of the yellow elastic, and of the white or non- elastic fibres, the latter of which predominate. It is more firmly connected with the mucous than with the vascular coat, and in it the bloodvessels and nerves are supported prior to their distribution in the mucous membrane. This sub-mucous tissue or structure prevails also in the stomach, and is often much altered by disease, becoming thicker, and assuming a more dense and sometimes an almost gristly hardness. It is an important part in the surgical treatment of wounds of the intestines, being firmer, stronger, and more elastic in reptiles and more distinct in carnivorous than in herbivorous animals' or in man. 375 The muscular coat of the intestines is in two layers, the internal being composed of fibres running transversely, the outer fibres running longitudinally; they are thickest iu the duodenum and rectum. They are of the involuntary or un- stnped kind, as opposed to the voluntary or striped, which are of large size, and characterized by strice running trans- versely and longitudinally. The involuntary fibres, on the contrary, are much smaller in size, are always more or less flattened, and present no trace of strite or stripes, although the interior appears granular with an occasional nucleus. The heart is a remarkable ex- x x 2