Illustrative Cases. Ml prescribed occasional cathartics and low diet. He has been also affected with pain and weakness in both eyes, but more particularly in the right. While at Brussels, and during his progress to Ostend, he lived very irregularly, and was fre- quently intoxicated. The external wound was entirely healed on the 20th of July, and no suspicion existed that the ball was lodged in the brain. On the 25th matter was perceived under the scalp, and was evacuated yesterday. To-day, the 27th, he complains of increase of headache; pulse small and quick. V. S. ad 3vj. Haust. Cathart. statim. 28th. In the course of this day his symptoms have become very urgent; he is restless, with a very quick pulse; an extensive crucial incision was made in the site of the original wound, and now for the first time it was discovered that the ball had penetrated the brain; several loose pieces of bone were ex- tracted; a considerable quantity of arterial blood was suffered to flow from the small vessels divided in the incision. His bowels had been well opened by the cathartic. The most vigorous treatment was continued, but the symptoms not- withstanding increased, and he died on the morning of the 29 th of July. The ball was found lodged nearly two inches deep in the substance of the right posterior lobe of the brain; a consider- able quantity of pus surrounded it; some inflammation of the brain and its membranes was observed, but it was much less than might have been expected. 'A. Clutterbuck, 61st regiment, aged twenty-five, was wounded in the back of the head by a musket-ball at the battle of Toulouse, on the 10th of April, 1814. He felt little in- convenience from the wound during the first two days. On the Hth he complained of severe pain in the head, giddiness, and dimness of sight; the face was flushed, pulse hard and fre- quent. Twenty ounces of blood were taken from the arm, and the wound enlarged so as to expose the cranium. The upper part of the os occipitis was found fractured by the ball, and a circular portion of it, about the size of a shilling, was de- pressed and fractured. 15th. Pain in the head much abated; no giddiness, dimness of sight, or any unfavourable symptom- pulse still hard. V.S. ad Jxx. To be well purged. 19th. lie' o a 2