Its use after Amputation. 71 for tourniquets in amputation, must be given up, except by incompetent persons, or by those who are fearful and super- stitious, and do not like to depart from the ways of their fore- fathers. 70. A tourniquet is useful when loosely applied after an operation, and the attendant should be taught how to turn it, so as to suppress any serious bleeding which may take place until the surgeon can be procured. It may be, although it rarely is, necessary on the field of battle. The surgeon need not, therefore, load himself or his assistant, as formerly, with a sackful, for a thoroughly useful tourniquet can be made in a moment with a pebble and a pocket-handkerchief, or a roller. The great point is to know where and how to apply it. When gentlemen called surgeons by warrant are sent to an army, as many were to that in Spain and France, with only the knowledge of a druggist, having been refused a commission on account of their ignorance, it is necessary this instruc- tion should be especially given to them; and this horrible fact is recorded with the hope it may be useful in preventing any such atrocious proceedings in future. Peace, or Humane Societies, if they cannot prevent a war, may interfere with advantage on this point, to divest it of some of its horrors. 71. When circular operations were performed in the olden time, and particularly on the thigh, the skin, when divided, was dissected, and turned up like the cuff of a coat—a painful proceeding, as unnecessary as it was barbarous. Forty years have elapsed since I demonstrated its absurdity, and showed that the first incision in the thigh should include the fascia lata, and any deep attachments it might have, when the parts thus divided ought to be retracted as a whole, to form a proper covering for the stump. It was at the same time shown, that in whatever way, and however clumsily and tediously, the muscles might be divided, it did not prevent the successful result of the operation, pro- vided the bone was cut short, so as to form a cone, with an elongated or depressed point. 72. The nicking of the periosteum, and pushing it upwards and downwards, so as to leave a space for the saw, was at the same time forbidden, as leading to necrosis of the part of the