556 Illustrative Cases. and antimony were continued, and some light nourishment was allowed. From this day a gradual amendment took place. The calomel was continued until his mouth became slightly affected; and, as his bowels were in general torpid, from the deficient secretion of bile, a mild purgative was given every two or three days, as occasion required, and an ounce of the infusion of calumba, with quassia, three or four times daily. A soldier of the 48th regiment was struck by a musket-ball at Albuhera, on the upper part of the right hypochondrium, over the liver; it came out behind, at a point immediately corresponding to that in front. Blood and bile were dis- charged from the wounds in considerable quantity, and his case was considered to be hopeless. Brought to me, at Val- verde, the next day, he was bled largely several times, the wounds were dressed simply, and he was kept perfectly quiet, and his bowels gently open. The skin became of a yellow colour, his strength failed under the treatment, and he became thin, and looked ill. At the end of three weeks he was sent to Elvas, where he gradually improved, and was forwarded thence to Lisbon and to England, with his wounds healed. An officer was wounded in one of the battles in the Pyrenees, by a musket-ball, which penetrated the outer part of the right hypochondrium, at the edge of the false ribs, and lodged. Blood and bile flowed in considerable quantity; skin became yellow, the pain and swelling of the abdomen were consider- able, and he was given over as lost. Under a vigorous and careful treatment, he gradually recovered, so as to be sent to England, with a fistulous opening at the orifice of entrance. I examined the wound in 1817, three years afterwards, and found that a large blunt probe passed inwards towards the stomach, for the distance of five inches, where it ended ap- parently in a sort of sac. Purulent and bilious matters were constantly discharged from the wound; his countenance was sallow; his digestion bad; he suffered from constant uneasi- ness, if not pain, and was altogether out of health. I saw him once annually for several years, and found that I could some- times strike the ball with the probe; that he frequently, after an attack of pain and derangement, passed matter by stool, after which the pain and uneasiness about the wound ceased.