Constitutional and Local Remedies- 162 bleeding, although it had proved so effectual, without the local remedies, at the neighbouring sea-port of Bilbao. 168. Dr. Boggie, the great advocate for constitutional treat- ment, says, that under him, at Bilbao, in 1813, where caustic applications were not used, or only as detersives, the disease was arrested by bloodletting to the amount of one or two pounds, and, iu some cases, to the extent of three or four. He admits, however, that bleeding must be resorted to with the greatest caution, in persons of less robust constitutions, who may have lingered long in hospital, or suffered much from ill - health; and that in some cases it is altogether inadmissible— an acknowledgment which is decisive in my mind, that consti- tutional treatment is only auxiliary. He says, he never saw the puncture made by the lancet affected by this disease; a convincing proof to me, who have seen it, that the virulence of the complaint, as an infectious disease, was subsiding at Bilbao, when the treatment he introduced proved so effectual. In one case at Santander, in which hospital gangrene and tetanus existed together, in the hand and arm, they were both cured by venesection, which failed as signally in doing the least good, in a case in the next bed, under nearly similar cir- cumstances. Dr. Boggie admits that—" In that form of gangrene named phagedtena, a very great destruction of parts may sometimes take place without the constitution being much affected by it. Now, if bloodletting be used in such a case, or even in the advanced stage of the true inflammatory gangrene, when dis- organization has taken place, and the system is sinking under the consequent debility, the vital powers being nearly ex- hausted, the result must be obvious; but when it is used with caution, and in cases where it is really applicable, it will be found to be a most valuable remedy." In all cases, Dr. Boggie, like every one else, had recourse to emetics, purgatives, and such other general treatment as the febrile symptoms appeared to indicate. As local applications he recommends cold water, alone or mixed with a small portion of acetic acid, constantly applied and frequently renewed. Poultices and warm appli- cations he objects to; and after the sloughs separate, he approves of dry lint and weak solutions of sulphate of zinc.