322 Fracture on one side from a blow on the other. to the place where the wounded of the evening before had been collected in the rear. Being otherwise employed, I heard his story, but could not attend to him at the moment, and found him some time afterwards insensible, with a slow, intermitting pulse, breathing loudly, and supposed to be dying. The fractured parts were sufficiently broken to admit of the introduction of two elevators, by means of which they were gradually removed, together with a large coagulum of blood which had depressed the brain. When this was done, the brain regained its level, the man opened his eyes, looked around, knew and thanked me. The pulse and breath- ing became, regular; he said he suffered only a little pain in the part, and should soon get well. He died however on the third day. During the battle of Salamanca a soldier of the 2,tn regiment was brought to me, who had walked to the rear, and had fallen down insensible within a few yards of the hospital station. I found a considerable fracture, with depression at the inferior part of the parietal bone before and above the ear. The end of the elevator having been introduced, a small piece of bone was first raised, then another, and a third, when a thick coagulum was exposed and removed. The dura mater was not separated from the bone around to any extent, and the coagulum, although thick, was not large. The brain, which had been depressed, regained its level immediately; the man recovered his senses, and was cured of his wound, but remained unfit for service. The artery did not bleed after it had been exposed. < The rule in surgery, to remove the bone in such cases, is absolute. , 261. Fractures of the skull are stated, from almost the earliest records of surgery, to occur on one side of the head, in consequence of blows received on the other. The facts which ancient authors have collected and related on this point are so numerous and so well attested, that it appears sceptical to doubt their accuracy. A counter fracture or fissure of one parietal or temporal bone, caused by a blow on the opposite one, is nevertheless of such rare occurrence, that it is in general unnoticed by later writers