Injuries of the Chest. 11 With respect to injuries of the chest, I can only say, I am fearful of approaching the subject. The greater part of that which is known is undoubtedly due to the practice of the Peninsular war. I have endeavoured to state it as distinctly as I could, with all the improvements and recommendations which time and greater experience have enabled me to add to what was known before; but I have not been able to attract sufficient attention to it. I cannot say as I have previously said,—" these things were, they are now only matters of history." Injuries of the chest are not of common oc- currence in England, and gentlemen do not appear to take the trouble to learn what they think they may not, perhaps, be called upon to practise. It is with regret I am obliged to confess that I cannot recollect that I have read one case reported as having come under the observation of a coroner, in which the sufferer did not appear to me to have died almost as much from maltreatment as from the injury he had received. In some instances, the unfortunate person had not a chance, and assuredly died as much of his doctor as of his wound. I have been an Examiner of the Royal College of Surgeons of England for more than twenty years, and twice its President, and am sorry to say that many, very many of the students who formerly presented themselves for examination, in order to obtain the authority of the College to call themselves surgeons, were profoundly ignorant of even the first principles of treat- ment of these injuries. Many have actually been so ignorant as not to know whether a penetrating wound of the chest from a knife should be left open or closed,—if to be closed, how it ought to be done most efficiently, or on what side the wounded man should lie; and if they did know that, few could tell the reasons for a preference. I am now, however, under the persuasion that teachers of surgery attend to these points more impressively than was their wont, and that students do and will attend more to the instruction they thus receive. It is with reference to these injuries especially that the surgeons of the French army have done good service; that the English, I regret to say,have done nothing; nevertheless there are many points of treatment which require the closest attention, and, in all probability, alteration. There is, in truth, much to learn. I am glad, however, to be able to say that I have