257 Ligature of the Common Iliac Artery. slight herniary projection, requiring the support of an abdo- minal bandage. The situation of the ureter and rectum on the left side in this operation, and of the ureter and the ctecum with its appendix on the right side, should be well understood, and it should be known that the ureter rises with the peritoneum. The relative situation of the common iliac artery and vein should be particularly attended to, when passing the ligature around the vessel. On the left side, the artery lies external and anterior to its commencement; on the right, the artery passes over the commencement of the vena cava and the left iliac vein, which do not follow the peritoneum when drawn towards the opposite side. The bowels should be thoroughly well evacuated before the operation is performed, but purga- tives should not be given for some days after it has been done. The food should be liquid, and inflammation should be subdued by leeches, general bleeding, fomentations, and opium. 219. The aorta may be as readily tied by this mode of pro- ceeding as the common iliac, and I am satisfied it is in this way such an operation ought to be performed, provided it become necessary to attempt it, which I suspect it will not be; for when an aneurism has formed so high up that it pre- vents the application of a ligature on the side on which the disease is situated, the common iliac will be more readily tied above it, instead of the aorta, by performing the operation on the opposite or sound side of the body; for as a ligature can be applied with great ease on the sound side on the middle of the common iliac artery, it requires very little more know- ledge and dexterity to pass over to the opposite or diseased side, aud tie the artery above the aneurismal tumour, the size of which would have prevented the operation being done on its own or the affected side. The placing a ligature on the aorta for an aneurism in the pelvis will thus be rendered un- necessary—a most important result, deduced from the opera- tion described. 220. If the internal iliac is to be tied, the operator traces it downwards from its origin, in preference to passing his finger from the external iliac artery inwards in seach of it. Having z 2