Symptoms of Pneumonia. 384 effused fluid is small in quantity, is never a dangerous symp- tom; and its return, after it has been present and has dis- appeared, is a sign that a part of the effused fluid has been removed. It is a sign principally of value in distinguishing between pleuritis and pleuro-pneumonia and pure pneumonia, in which latter it is not heard, as in that complaint fluid is not thrown out into the cavity of the pleura. 301. In pneumonia, or inflammation of the substance of the lung, as distinct from any implication of the pleura, which, however, most frequently obtains after blows on, and in cases of penetrating wounds of the chest, the symptoms differ. The ordinary febrile symptoms are similar to those of pleurisy, only more intense; they usually precede for a day or two the local symptoms of difficult respiration, pain, and cough. The dyspnoea varies in different people. In some, it is only a slight embarrassment of breathing, admitting of partial removal by accelerating the number of the respirations, which are augmented from twenty to thirty, forty, and upwards, and in children to sixty and seventy, marking a great degree of distress and of extent of inflammation, from which, when they are so frequent, persons rarely recover. The patient can scarcely speak or lie down, and is obliged to be supported in that which he finds to be the least uneasy position. Pain is not always present; it is even said to be more frequently absent when the substance of the lung is affected, and not the pleura. That pain is not a necessary concomitant of pneu- monia is admitted, but that it is usually present, and with great intensity, in many cases, cannot be doubted. When present, it is usually an early symptom, deep-seated below the sternum, under the breast, extending to the scapula. When in the sides, it is more acute and fixed, and is probably con- joined with the pain of pleurisy. The pulse is quick and sharp, occasionally full and hard, at the commencement of this complaint in young and healthy persons, although it is sometimes small and weak from the beginning, where there is little general power; but this rarely occurs in cases of injury, and is not to be relied upon, in oppo- sition to other symptoms. The cough is usually dry in the commencement of idiopathic