Mineral Acids for Sloughing Sores. 65 the 22ud, a sudden haemorrhage took place, to the amount of three pints; a second ensuing on the 23rd, the arm was ampu- tated. The pulse continued quick; in other respects he was doing well, until the 25th, when some accession of fever took place, and increased. He was bled to ten ounces, and purged. On the 26th, the line of incision in the stump appeared to be healed; and with the exception of the pulse at 140, he had no unpleasant symptom on the 27th, and was free from pain of every kind. Ou removing the centre strap, which had been allowed to remain, a large collection of matter of good quality issued. On the 28th, he was much the same. On the 29th, the countenance had assumed a death-like paleness; pulse 120, intermitting every fifth pulsation; breathing short and laborious, with some pain in the chest, and every symptom of effusion having taken place. He died at two p.m., six days after the amputation. The only morbid appearance found on dissection was a large quantity of serous fluid in the pericardium, which was dis- tended by it, and on both sides of the chest. The heart and lungs, with their membranes, were quite sound. On examining the stump, the sanative process was found to have been entirely confined to the integuments. No appearance of granulation could be perceived on the muscular surface. This last case is worthy of especial observation, on account of the manner in which sulphuric acid was used for the sloughing state, from one drachm to one ounce of the acid to twelve ounces of water, not as something new, but as an ordinary application; and I am doubtful whether there is any case ou record of such use, anterior to it. Is the use of strong acids in sloughing cases also due to the war in the Peninsula ? Delpech says Yes,—a testimony I shall confirm in its proper place. I have departed in some degree, in the foregoing observa- tions, from the aphorismal form I had prescribed for myself in the commencement of these Commentaries. I have done so as an act of justice to those officers who served at Toulouse, Brussels, Antwerp, and Colchester, in 1814 and 1815, who are all now no more, and who laboured hard in the then early in- vestigation of these different states of disease, aud have not received the reward they merited of public acknowledgment. G 2