Secondary Amputations. 134 tary stores; position of the patient in gun-shot fradwres of the leg or thigh; splints, and their application; gun-shot wounds of the leg ; rarely to be amputated; removal of splinters; position of the limb; Mr. Luke's the best apparatus for a compound fracture of the leg; bearers for wounded men; gu/n-shot wounds of the arm; more probability of saving the limb; if an artery ulcerate, it should be tied at each end; primary amputation in such cases rare; and secondary, only for mortification, or wlien the strength gives way; in incisions at a late period, the nerves and arteries to be avoided; splints for the ovrm. 130. Secondary amputations, or those performed after the lapse of six or more weeks from the receipt of an injury, and when suppuration has been fully established, are not as successful in military as in civil hospitals, in which these operations are more commonly performed for incurable diseases than for in- juries. When, however, they are done in them for injuries, they are not equally successful. 131. In military warfare these amputations are frequently done from necessity, not choice, after the first forty-eight hours, and especially after four or five days to the end of six weeks, in parts which have been lately, or are still affected by some of the accompaniments of inflammation, or are in a state of irritation. In these cases the cellular or areolar tissue has become firmer and more compact than usual; the muscles are not perfectly healthy; the bloodvessels are larger and more numerous, and ready to assume actions unusual to them in a state of health. Where the bones have been dis- eased, much bony matter may be deposited between the muscles, and in some cases the vessels even are surrounded by it. After a few hours' remission, the constitutional symptoms often return, the wound sloughs, and secondary haemorrhage is not an infrequent consequence. The ligatures are a source of irritation, and prevent union, which in fact, should in such cases be rarely attempted, and if attempted, will as rarely succeed. 132. In these states of constitutional derangement, inflam- mation of the veins and sloughing of the stump are not un- common, augmented by, if not dependent in some degree on the state of the atmosphere, which, in autumn—the season for many military movements—gives rise to endemic, and even to