404 Symptoms of Empyema. place at a late period of the disease. When the effusion is into the left side of the chest, the heart is frequently pushed over with the mediastinum to the right side, and its pulsation can be seen and felt to the right side of the sternum; or it may descend with the diaphragm into the epigastrium, changes which are not so extensive or remarkable when the effusion is into the right side, as the liver materially impedes the descent of the diaphragm, and the heart is already in the left side, in which it is sometimes raised rather than de- pressed. It is said that if the hand be placed over the affected side, whilst the patient speaks with a tolerably loud voice, and a strong vibration is felt in the part, the case is not one of empyema; but this is as uncertain a sign aud as little to be depended upon, as the dulness on percussion, which sometimes takes place under the sternum in empyema. The cough and expectoration offer nothing peculiar, uuless a com- munication exist between the lung and the cavity of the chest, when the expectoration in general becomes very foetid and disagreeable. The febrile symptoms depend on the activity of the previous disease, and the rapidity with which the effusion has taken place. Night-sweats, it has been supposed, never accompany the hectic fever of empyema, unless there be tubercles in the lungs or pleura—a remark which cannot be depended upon. 315. Two symptoms have been insisted upon by older authors as distinctive of effusion in the chest, which more modern ones are disposed to doubt. One is an oedematous swelling of the back, the other a protrusion of the intercostal spaces. A third may be added when the effused fluid is blood, which is that the oedematous swelling becomes ecchymosed, or red, or bruised-looking, from the effusion of blood into the cellular membrane beneath the skin, over the whole space occupied by the blood within. That the first two symptoms do assuredly indicate the presence of pus cannot be doubted, and that the third is a sign that the effused fluid is blood has not been dis- proved, but it must be borne in mind that they are late not early symptoms, and the operation should not be delayed until they are present, if other signs should appear to demand its performance. Valentin was the first to notice the ecchy-