302 Calomel and other Remedies. In all these and in other more desperate cases, the effect of mercury, provided it have been early and rapidly administered, may yet be decisive. Calomel, combined with another and not less important remedy, opium, ought to be given every two or three hours until the effects of both are fairly induced. Blisters should never be applied to the head until after the leading symptoms of inflammation have been overcome; they will do more good at a later period when applied between the shoulders, or on the nape of the neck; they should be dressed with mercurial and savine, or other stimulating ointment. The hair should be cut close in ordinary cases, or shaved off in the more serious ones. The head should be raised in bed, and kept wet with a cold evaporating lotion, or one composed of two ounces of the nitrate of potass, one of the muriate of ammonia, one pint of vinegar, and five of water, made in small quantities at a time, as it may be required; or with a small quantity of pounded ice and water in a large bladder. Perfect quietude and nearly absolute starvation should be enforced. The different points of practice which have been noticed are well illustrated by the following case, in which the symp- toms of concussion were complicated by those which are commonly observed in compression of the brain. An old man, when cleaning windows, fell from some steps on his forehead, which he slightly cut and bruised, and divided the left temporal artery by another small cut; it bled pro- fusely until the haemorrhage was arrested by a surgeon. He remained in a state of insensibility for nearly two hours, when he rallied, and answered questions, although imperfect]}'. Pulse quicker than natural, and intermittent. He shortly afterwards relapsed into a state of insensibility, with con- vulsions, stertorous breathing, puffing at the corner of the mouth, and complete loss of voluntary motion: the pulse could scarcely be felt. This convulsive fit lasted about ten minutes, when his respiration became natural, and his pulse was restored. The insensibility continued for an hour, when it was attempted to bleed him, but the pulse fell immediately, and it was not persisted in. He soon, however, became quite