276 Ligature of the Innominata and the Subclavian. From this view of the parts it will be evident that the ope- ration may be done in the following manner: Raise the shoulders of the patient, and allow the head to fall backwards, by which the artery will be drawn a little from within the chest. Let an incision be made over and down to the sterno- cleido-mastoideus muscle, the sternal origin of which, and nearly the whole of the clavicular origin, should be divided on a director, carefully introduced below it, avoiding some small veins which run below and parallel with its origin. An inci- sion is now or previously to be made, two inches in length, through the integuments, along the inner edge of the muscle, which will admit of its being raised and turned upwards and outwards. Some cellular texture being torn through, the sterno-hyoideus muscle is brought into view, and should be divided on a director. The sterno-thyroideus is then to be cut through in a similar manner. A strong fascia and some cel- lular texture here cover the artery, having the nerves above mentioned running beneath it, the carotid being to the inside, the internal jugular vein to the outside. By following the carotid downwards, the finger will rest on the innominata and on the origin of the subclavian, and a ligature may be placed on either. If on the innominata, the aneurismal needle (and several kinds should be at hand) should be passed from with- out inwards, immediately below the bifurcation, and close to the vessel. If on the subclavian, the surgeon must recollect that there is only about a quarter of an inch of this artery on which the ligature can be applied; this small space being bounded internally by the carotid artery, and" externally by the par vagum above and the vertebral artery below. The ligature should be applied close to the vertebral artery, the needle being passed from below upwards, the greatest care being taken to avoid the recurrent nerve, which separates from the par vagum at this part, and winds under the subcla- vian and carotid arteries, to be continued upwards to the larynx If the ligature be placed on the arteria innominata, the same care must be taken to draw the par vagum outwards, and to avoid the recurrent nerve. The edges of the wound should be brought together and dressed in the usual manner, the head being bent forwards on the trunk, and maintained in