Ball passed per A num. 547 urgent; no vomiting, but is affected with nausea. Digitalis continued.—Four o'clock: pulse 100; feels nauseated; no pain of abdomen. Digitalis occasionally. 16th, Eight a.m.—The tendency to vomit continues. One grain and a half of chloride of mercury with a grain and a half of opium, made into a pill, to be taken in the morning; and bleeding.—Seven p.m.: Vomits whatever he swallows in any quantity; skin hot; thirst great; tongue red; two motions; says abdomen is not painful; pulse 112. A blister to be again applied to the epigastrium; foot-bath in the evening; repeat the mucilaginous mixture for cough. 17th.—Rested ill; blister has not risen; cough has been severe, and continues so; two motions; pulse, 120, and not soft; cough augmented by deep inspiration, and pain pro- duced. Take blood from the arm to eight ounces; foot-bath in the evening; continue pill. 18th.—Bad night; cough gone; respiration easy; pulse 100; skin cool and moist; no thirst; one motion, of a natural kind! Repeat mucilage and the calomel and opium pill. 24th.—Has this morning experienced a severe attack of dyspnoea, attended by cough and pain of chest, both increased by full inspiration. Pulse 120; face flushed; savs he caught cold from exposure to the night-air. Bled immediately, and as much blood taken as his strength would permit; foot-bath repeated in the evening. 25th.—Six ounces of blood drawn, surface bufly; bad night- cough, pain, and pyrexia abated this morning; in the evening severe dyspnoea; cough and pain of chest have recurred; pulse 120. Six ounces of blood to be drawn, should strength permit; mucilaginous mixture to be continued; another blister to be applied to the chest. 28th.—In a fair way of recovery; and was discharged for England in June, with little or no complaint. John Murray, Surgeon to the Forces. Sergeant Mathews, of the 28th Regiment, was wounded, at Waterloo, by a musket-ball, about an inch below the umbilicus and a little to the right side, which lodged. He walked to a village in the rear, where he remained for three days, having been bled each day to fainting, before he was removed to