continued and commented upon. 219 left. At seven p.m. he became more easy, and expressed an opinion that he should " do well;" but in little more than half an hour he expired. Examination after Death.—Swelling and ecchymosis of the right thigh, particularly at the upper part, and in the right iliac region; also swelling and ecchymosis of the scrotum, chiefly in the right side, with general tumefaction of the abdo- minal parietes below the umbilicus. A wound into which the little finger could be passed was on the upper and outer aspect of the right thigh, about three inches below the crest of the ilium, and about an inch nearer the mesial line than the great trochanter, and on the left side another smaller wound situated about the external aperture of the left spermatic canal. The first-mentioned wound was open; the lips of the latter were partially adherent. The course of the wound was traced from the outside through a dense layer of fat about two inches in thickness (on an average). It had divided one of the super- ficial branches of the femoral artery, about half an inch below Poupart's ligament, and about an inch from the main body of the femoral artery, which had caused a false aneurism. The sac contained about three ounces of blood. Blood was also effused into the cellular structure of the scrotum, and down- wards beneath the sartorius muscle. The wound passed through the cellular tissue, across the pubes, and emerged about the situation of the external spermatic ring, without having divided the cord on either side, and being quite super- ficial to the bladder. No other artery appeared to have been wounded. When the parietes of the abdomen were reflected, a considerable quantity of sero-purulent fluid was found in the abdominal cavity; and on different parts of the large and small intestines, patches of acute inflammation were observed, particularly on the ascending arch of the colon. The peri- tonajum adjoining the wound of the operation was inflamed, and approaching to gangrene; it had not been injured by the knife during the operation. The intestines were unusually large, and distended with flatus. The other abdominal viscera were healthy, but loaded to an extraordinary degree with fat. The ligature had been properly applied to the iliac artery; the vein was not injured; the surface of the wound and the cellular