Illustrative Case of Lord Beaumont. 420 to the ribs by intervening false membrane, whilst the upper part was free, and had become compressed towards the spinal column. The substance of that part of the lung, not involved in the abscess, was infiltrated with pus, and the greater number of the bronchial tubes were filled up by masses of curdy matter, similar to those found floating in the effused fluid. The natural division of the lung into lobes was quite destroyed by the pleuritic adhesions of one to the other, whilst the pleura lining the parietes was covered by rugged layers of false membrane of irregular thickness, but readily detached. No trace of tubercular deposit could be found, and the lung of the opposite side was quite healthy. 321. Lord Beaumont was wounded by a pistol-ball on the 13th of February, 1832, when standing sideways. It entered the right side of the chest a little below the nipple, appeared to pass under the lower end of the sternum, just above or about the xyphoid cartilage, and to have lodged in the cartilage of the last of the true ribs of the left side, near its junction with the bone, in consequence of a round projection at that ' part resembling a pistol-ball, but which, on being exposed, showed only a knob of cartilage which might have been a natural formation; no further steps were therefore taken. The injury had been received about four o'clock, it was now five; he could lay flat on his back, had little or no pain, or oppression.—Seven o'clock: Breathing became oppressed, and accompanied by pain; vesicular murmur distinct in both lungs; pulse 96. Bleeding to thirty-two ounces.—Nine o'clock: Difficulty of breathing; the pain greater; was again bled until the pulse failed, although he did not faint; the relief great.— Half-past ten: Oppressive breathing again returned; pulse very low and quick; thirty-six leeches applied; relief obtained.—Half-past-twelve: Thirty-six more leeches.—Half- past two: Thirty leeches were again applied. In all four pints of blood were taken from the arm, and one hundred and two leeches were applied to the chest, the bleeding being encou- raged afterwards; during the first ten hours five grains of calomel and four of the compound extract of colocynth had been given, and now forty minims of Battley's solution of opium were administered.