Amputation by the Circular Incision. 81 be taken to cut at least half an inch on each side of the great artery by one incision, which should be either the first or second, as may be most convenient. The muscles attached to the bone are to be then separated with a scalpel for about three inches in large thighs, by which means the bone will be fairly imbedded when sawed off. The common linen retractor is now to be placed on the limb, and the muscles steadily kept back while the bone is sawed through. The periosteum is to be divided by one circular cut of the scalpel, after the retractor is put on. The heel of the saw is then to be applied, and drawn towards the surgeon so as to mark the bone, in which furrow he will continue to cut with long and steady strokes, the point of the saw slanting downwards in a perpendicular direc- tion until the bone be nearly divided, when the saw is to be more lightly pressed upon to avoid splintering it, which this manner of sawing will also tend to prevent. During this operation the thigh should be held steadily above, and in such a manner below that the part to be cut off does not weigh or drag on the bone above; at the same time it must not be pressed inwards or upwards, or it will prevent the motion of the saw, or splinter the bone. The retractor is then to he removed, the great artery to be pulled out by a tena- culum passed through its sides, separated a little from its attachments, and firmly tied with a two-threaded strong liga- ture, provided dentists' silk be not used, and the tenaculum is not to be withdrawn until this has been accomplished; any other vessels that show themselves may be secured, and com- pression should for an instant be taken off the main artery, when others will start. If used, the tourniquet should now be removed, and the small remaining vessels will he discovered. If the great vein continue to bleed after some pressure has been made upon it, a single-threaded ligature should be put over it; but this should not be done if it can be avoided, and only when the loss of a little blood might be dangerous. If the cancellated part of the bone bleed freely, the thumb of the left hand pressed steadily upon it, whilst the vessels are tying, will in a short time suppress it. Any inequality of bone should be removed by forceps. The ligatures should now be shortened, one end of each thread being cut off; the stump