446 Illustrative Case of Sir G. L. Cole, G.C.B.; moment, unless he should die of asphyxia, from the lung on the other side being also compressed, through the bulging of the mediastinum on it; to prevent which, if possible, the wound should be re-opened or enlarged, so as to take off the pressure of the effused and perhaps coagulated blood. If the person wounded shall have suffered formerly from inflamma- tion, and the lung has adhered in consequence to the wall of the thorax, at the parts where the ball enters and goes out, the cavity of the chest will not be opened, and the track only of the ball will communicate with the external parts, unless the ball shall have perforated some of the large vessels, when he will continue to bleed by the mouth. The pressure of the blood effused into the track of the ball, which may become coagulated, will sometimes suffice, under even these circum- stances, to suppress the haemorrhage which the loss of blood, the faintness of the patient, and the weakness of the circula- tion, under proper treatment, will materially assist in render- ing permanent. General Sir G. Lowry Cole, G.C.B., was struck at the battle of Salamanca, on the 22nd of July, 1812, by a musket-ball, which entered immediately below the clavicle, fractured the first rib, and inclining inwards, came out through the scapula behind; as he spat blood for three days, the upper part of the lung was shown to have been injured. The ball appeared to have passed so close to the under part of the subclavian artery, that the greatest fears were entertained for his safety, more particularly as a marked difference in the size of the pulse was perceived in the left arm, which did not exist before. He remained three days on the field of battle, in a Portuguese officer's tent I always carried with me. Under repeated bleedings, and the strictest antiphlogistic treatment, several splinters having come away, and a large piece of the rib and of the scapula exfoliated, he gradually recovered, so as to be able to resume the command of the fourth division in October at Madrid. The subclavian artery never resumed its power, and the radial always beat less forcibly on the left side. He per- fectly recovered his health, the respiratory murmur of the lung being natural. He died in 1844, from rupture, I believe, of an aneurism of the abdominal aorta.