When first noticed. 57 to the sternum, and had all but found its way into the larynx, between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages on the right side. Daniel Lynch, wounded through the knee-joint at the battle of Toulouse, on the 12th of April, 1814, had his thigh ampu- tated by the late Mr. Boutflower, on the 8 th of May. The night succeeding the operation he passed comfortably. N ext day, the 9th, the febrile symptoms were augmented. On the 10th he was worse; pulse 150. On the 11th he was better. On the 16th he was considered to be in a state of convales- cence, and went on improving until the 22nd, when fever recurred. On the 28th his stomach became very irritable; the stump appeared to be nearly healed, the discharge being small, and of good quality; one ligature remained. 30th: Pulse 110; tongue of a brownish hue. During the 31st, and 1st of June, he got worse, and died. The stump appeared to have united externally, except where the ligatures came out; but on cutting through the line of adhesion, the muscular parts within were evidently unhealthy; the bone was surrounded for some distance by a case of osseous matter, including the re- maining ligature, which could not be removed by any force short of breaking it. The femur was bare, and showed marked signs of absorption having commenced; three inches of it must have come away if the man had lived. The extremity of the vein was in a sloughing state. Having dissected the other extremity for particular pur- poses, foreign to the> examination into the cause of death, a semi-transparent membranous bag, containing good pus, was found accidentally on the tibialis posticus muscle. The blood in the perinaeal vein outside of it was coagulated; there were little or no marks of inflammation, and the matter appeared to have been deposited without any. The inner side of the soleus muscle seemed simply to be discoloured. The first edition having been published before the battle of "Waterloo, the opinions and facts stated therein became matters for public discussion, and the reports made by my friends from Brussels, Antwerp, Yarmouth, and Colchester, confirmed all the facts and I may add all the opinions of the slightest importance. They were published in the second