452 Effusion most frequent cause cf Death. individual. It is the great fact to be attended to in the treatment of pistol-wounds of the chest, or those made by small balls vjhich do not pass out. All the persons I have seen die from small balls have died with the affected cavity more or less full of fluid. The post-mortem reports of all persons killed in Eng- land in duels by wounds through the chest, unwittingly attest this fact, as well as the insufficiency of the surgical treatment they received, and the necessity, for the future, for its amend- ment. It is in these cases that the stethoscope is most valuable—its frequent use indispensable. When the respi- ratory murmur ceases to be heard, except at what is the upper part of the chest, whatever the position of the patient may be, it is full time to enlarge the original opening, or to draw off the fluid by the trocar and canula. Laennec thought that when a considerable effusion took place in pleuro-pneuraonia, filling the posterior part of the chest, when the patient lay on his back, it nevertheless diffused itself over the whole surface of the lung; but dissec- tion has shown, in cases of wounds, that the fore-part of the lung may be applied to the anterior part and sides of the ribs: whilst a serous effusion fills the hollow behind, the respiratory murmur being distinctly heard above it. It is the most im- portant fact to ascertain, particularly in pistol or small pene- trating wounds of the chest, in which the opening is not sufficiently large to allow any fluid effused to run out. Sir C. B was wounded by a pistol-ball in the back, which passed into the chest through the lower part of the lung of the right side, and lodged on the inside of the wall of the chest in front of the same side, sticking in and against a rib, but giving rise to no external marks or signs of mischief at that part, so as to admit of an operation for its removal. The inflammatory symptoms having been restrained, it was, nevertheless, obvious that the cavity of the chest was full of fluid, and that the oppression in breathing arose from it, and not from the injury done to the lung. The stethoscope was then unknown, the ear was not in use; my older colleagues were obstinate; they would not hear of an operation for enlarging the wound into the chest; and as our patient was, unfortunately for him, shot in London, instead of the pass of