84 Mr. Luke's Flap Amputation. incision is made from without inwards, through the integu- ments, so as to form an even curve, and without angular irregularity, over the thigh, to near the base of the posterior flap on the side on which the surgeon stands. The length of this flap is determined by that of the posterior. It will there- fore vary from four to six inches, as before stated; and for its completion, will require a second or perhaps a third applica- tion of the knife. In the two flaps thus made, the division of almost all the soft structures is included, a few only imme- diately surrounding the bone remaining uncut. These are to be divided by a circular sweep of the knife, at the part where it is intended to saw the bone; and in this way it is sufliciently denuded for the application of the saw. The flaps being held back by an assistant, the bone is to be sawn through in the usual way. In amputations of the lower part of the thigh it usually happens that the ischiatic nerve lies upon the surface of the posterior flap, and should be removed. It occasionally occurs, although not frequently, that the popliteal artery, at its commencement, is cut obliquely; but in amputations above the passage of the arterial trunk, through the tendon of the triceps, this does not take place, the division of the artery being usually included in the circular sweep made after the formation of the flaps. The divided arteries having been care- fully secured, the flaps are to be brought together and retained by three sutures passed through the integuments, at equal dis- tances from each other, and from the extremity or base of the flaps. It appears to be a matter of considerable importance not only that their edges should be kept in apposition, but that their whole surfaces should be kept in accurate contact. For this purpose, the following method of dressing is adopted: —The edges, in the intervals between the sutures, are to be held together by strips of adhesive plaster about one inch in breadth. A compress of lint is then to be fitted over each flap - that upon the posterior flap being the larger. The com- presses are to cover the flaps only, and not to extend over the extremity of the bone, where their pressure would probably be ill endured. The posterior compress is made large, that it may serve as a cushion on which the thigh rests when the patient is placed in bed. The compresses are