147 Gun-shot Fractures of the Leg. somewhat similar to that called Desault's, is absolutely neces- sary for the thigh, if it can be borne, as a means of extension, or rather of preserving length. A shorter one on the inside, and one behind, will sometimes be required to complete the set. A short one may be wanting for occasional use in front. 156. The bones of the leg being more exposed, admit of greater liberties being taken with them, and of larger portions, or even parts, being taken away successfully, than ought to be attempted in the thigh. A leg should therefore be rarely am- putated for a fracture from a musket-ball. The splinters should be removed to almost any extent and number, and irregular portions sawn off, even if both ends should be thus implicated. If one bone of the leg remain uninjured, the case becomes comparatively simple. The position should be straight on the heel, as a general rule, admitting of few exceptions. 157. The best apparatus for a compound fracture of the leg in either civil or military surgery, particularly in the latter, is that contrived by Mr. Luke, which may be seen in use at the London Hospital, and is supplied by Mr. McLellan, 3, Turner-street, Whitechapel-road. It is a simple iron cradle of small size, such as is used to guard a limb from the weight of the bed-clothes, composed of three bars or large segments of a circle, united at their middles and ends or sides as all cradles are, by a bar of iron of equal thickness. This is placed on a board a little wider than itself, with a ledge or bar at each side to prevent the cradle from moving, aided by two buttons or little pieces of wood on each side, which being moveable, turn over the iron bars, and thus render the board and cradle one firm piece. In this the leg is to be slung, to the centre bar above, by ordinary tapes. A splint made of copper, to prevent rust or injury, hollowed to receive the leg, extending beyond the foot with a foot-board, and beyond the condyles of the femur above, enables the tapes to be passed under the limb for slinging it; whilst from the extension of the splint beyond the condyles, it causes the leg and thigh to move together, in a manner which will often prevent the pain which follows a sudden motion of the patient. Solid wooden side plints are still wanting, and these should