Emphysema. 423 ball, and give passage to the air from the left side of the chest. This was done at five o'clock p.m.; and at ten, on its being withdrawn, air rushed out in a very manifest manner, to his great relief. The metallic tinkling which was dis- tinct before the instrument was withdrawn instantly ceased, but could be reproduced by closing the opening. The small ■ gum catheter was therefore re-introduced with the eye pro- jecting beyond the sponge, and retained, air passing through it; cough very troublesome. March 17.—Better; pulse 100; bowels open; cough easier; expectorates freely a rouillee, or reddish muco-purulent matter. 18 th.—Easier and better; breathing on the left side not heard below the fourth rib; discharge free; the permanent gum catheter taken out, but passed in daily. After this he slowly became convalescent, and is now (1853) in perfect health, being an admirable instance of the treatment to be followed in such cases. When there is not an opening to enlarge, one should be made with the trocar. ♦ It has been stated by the latest writers on pneumothorax, that tympanitic resonance on percussion, and the absence of respiration, are not pathognomonic signs of pneumothorax, as these physical signs may exist without it, and pneumothorax may exist without them. The metallic tinkling, in addition to the absence of all appearance of disease in the abdomen will be conclusive of the presence of this disease. 322. Emphysema, from iv and Qvaau, to inflate; the diffu- sion of air into a part of, or throughout the cellular tissue of the body. It has been said to take place after a wound of the chest, but without an injury of the lung, from the air passing through the wound into the cavity during inspiration, and by accumulate and subsequent compression under the act of expiration, giving rise to all the symptoms of the disease- a complaint more theoretical than real. Emphysema, as a medical disease, is opposed to the surgical disease, m not being an extravasation of air into the cavity of the chest, but a dilatation of the air-cells formed for itsrecep tion. It is of two kinds, Vesicular and Interlolular-vesicuter when dependent on the enlargement of one or more air-cells- interlobular when, from the sudden rupture of an air-cell the