Hospital Gangrene. 156 Characters of Hospital Gangrene. 164. This most destructive disease owes its names of hos- pital gangrene, phagedena gangrenosa, pourriture d'Mpilal, sloughing ulcer, &c. &c, to the different appearances the affected parts assume on different occasions, according to the intensity of the morbid poison applied, and possibly also to the state of constitution of the individual attacked. The pecu- liar nature of this poison has not yet been ascertained. Pro- fessor Brugmans says, that in 1797, in Holland, charpie com- posed of linen threads cut of different lengths, which,on inquiry, it was found had been already used in the great hospitals iu France, and had been subsequently washed and bleached, caused every ulcer to which it was applied to be affected by hospital gangrene; and the fact that this disease was readily communicated by the application of instruments, lint, or bandages, which had been in contact with infected parts, was too firmly established by the experience of every one in Portugal and Spain to be a matter of doubt. Its character as a thoroughly contagious disease is indisputable. Its capability of being conveyed, through the medium of the atmosphere, to an ulcerated surface, is also admitted, although some have thought that the infection was not always applied to the sore, but affected it secondarily, through the medium of the consti- tution. Brugmans says, that hospital gangrene prevailed in one of the low wards at Leyden in 1798, whilst the ward or garret above it was free. The surgeon made an opening in the ceiling between the two, in. order to ventilate the lower or affected ward, and in thirty hours, three patients who lay next the opening were attacked by the disease, which soon spread through the whole ward. Our experience in Portugal and Spain confirmed this fact, and left no doubt on the mind of any one who had frequent opportunities of seeing the disease, that one case of hospital gangrene was capable of infecting, not only every ulcer in the ward, but in every ward near it, and, ultimately, throughout the hospital, however large. The disease, as long as it remains unaltered by de-