464 Removal of Splinters, <L-c.,from tlie Chest. the angle of the same rib, which it again broke, together with the one immediately below it. M. Guerin enlarged the openings of entrance and of exit to the extent of nearly two inches, by dividing the pleura, the intercostal muscles, and the integuments, from within outwards. Several splinters of the rib injuring the lung were removed, the smallest of ■which might be half an inch or six lines long, by two wide. A tent was then passed through the wound. The patient suffered much, and spat a great deal of blood; pulse feeble, ex- tremities cold. He was bled three times the first night, and twenty-six times during the first fifteen days, the seton being retained in the chest the whole time. On the twenty-second day, a piece of cloth was felt by the finger, after removing the seton, and was extracted; a splinter was also felt, but so deeply that it could not be removed without enlarging the in- cision. As the inflammatory symptoms were re-excited, he was bled for the twenty-ninth time. On the thirtieth day, these symptoms had so much increased, that the seton was withdrawn, under the impression that it was doing more harm than good, and the thirty-first bleeding was effected. The next morning the patient complained of something pricking him within, and the parts left between the two original wounds, after the incisions which had already been made, were divided. The chest was now open from the articulation of the head of the rib with the sixth and seventh vertebrae behind, nearly to the cartilage in front; and the whole course of the ball was seen; it had made a groove in the surface of the lung, in the substance of which a splinter was sticking. This was extracted, and the wound dressed simply, after which the patient gradually improved and was quite cured in four months. The two first incisions for the removal of the splinters were necessary. The tent or seton drawn through the chest was an error; and although the fortunate result of the case depended probably on the removal of the splinters of bone sticking in the lung, few would survive the formidable operation performed for their removal. The case is suggestive and instructive. 845. When the lung can be seen through the opening made by the ball, or after some moderate enlargement for the purpose