Treatment of Simple Gun-shot Wounds. The joint was open, the suppuration profuse. A large or grape shot was supposed to be lodged in the head of the tibia. The limb was amputated, and he is now, thirty-seven years after- wards, alive, but no shot was found in his limb. It had dropped out after doing the injury. 12. The treatment of simple gun-shot or flesh wounds should be, under ordinary circumstances, as simple as themselves. Nothing should be applied but a piece of linen or lint, wetted with cold water; this may be retained by a strip of sticking- plaster, or any other thing applicable for the purpose of keeping the injured part covered. A compress of wet linen will be useful, moistened with iced water when pro- curable; and a few inches of a linen bandage may be sewed on, to prevent the compress from changing its position during sleep. If the wound is tender, a little oil, lard, or simple ointment may be placed over it. A roller as a surgical application is use- less, if not injurious. At the first and second battles in Por- tugal, every wound had a roller applied over it, which soon became stiff, bloody, and dirty. They did no good, were for the most part cut off with scissors,and thus rendered useless. When really wanted at a later period, they were not forthcoming. An advancing army cannot, and ought not to carry with it casks full of rollers; and the apothecary-general had better have, instead, one large case full of good wax candles; for although every regimental surgeon ought to have four in his panniers, kept as carefully for emergencies as his capital in- struments, they will require from time to time to be replaced. No roller should be more than two inches and a quarter wide, and made of good strong coarse cotton, very much in fact the reverse of the rollers instrument-makers like to supply. 13. Cold or iced water may be used as long as cold is grateful to the sufferer. When it ceases to be so, it should be ex- changed for warm, applied in any convenient way which modern improvements have suggested, whether by piline,gutta percha, &c. An evaporating poultice may be used in private life, but no poultices should be permitted in a military hospital, until the principal officer in charge is satisfied they are neces- sary. They are generally cloaks for negligence; and certain pre- cursors of amputation in all serious injuries of bones and joints.