110 Amputation of a Metatarsal Bone. As the posterior tibial must be divided, the preservation of the anterior artery is essentially necessary; the success of the operation depends upon it This artery, accompanied by its vein and nerve, lies close upon the astragalus; the artery may be said to be even attached to it, a point requiring the greatest attention in dissecting out the bone without injuring this vessel, which is seen under the scalpel. 100. Amputation of a single metatarsal bone, on the outside or inside of the foot, is to be done by an incision round the root of the toe, terminating in a line on the outside of the foot, which is continued down to the joint of the tarsus. The in- teguments are turned back above and below from the metatarsal bone, which is to be dissected out, with the toe attached to it, and the flaps brought together, so as to leave but one line of incision. In military surgery there is always a wound; and when the removal of the bone is necessary, it is in general an extensive one, and with loss of substance, so that a covering cannot be saved in this way, especially on the upper part of the foot, when struck by a ball or piece of shell. The sur- geon, therefore, must be prepared to look for his covering on the under part, where he will occasionally not be able to pro- cure it in sufficient quantity, and it must not be forgotten that the neighbouring parts will often be injured. The object must then be to save the integuments from such parts as are uninjured, so as to cover in the wound as nearly as possible when the bone has been removed. In doing this the first in- cision should commence at the upper part and inside of the toe, and be carried round so as to separate the toe from its attach- ment to its fellow. If the injury be entirely on the upper part, the continuation of this incision must be so regulated as to form the whole of the flap from below, and its commencement above must be continued round the injured part, so as to meet the lower end near the articulation of the bone with the tarsus, and vice vers&. If the ball have gone directly through, destroying the integuments above and below, the incisions must surround the injured part in such a manner, on the upper and under side of the foot, as to allow the flaps to be formed in every other part, except where the injury was inflicted, from which granulations must arise. By saving skm