Removal of the Head of the Femur. 38 been drawn by the action of the muscles. A step further must be taken, and this operation must some day be done in cases of fracture of the head or neck of this bone caused by an external wound—cases which have hitherto been invariably fatal, or in which life has been preserved by amputation at the hip-joint. The great advance which operative surgery has made within the last forty years, and the success which has followed the re- moval of the head of the humerus, the whole of the elbow and the ankle joints, render it imperative on surgeons of ability to endeavour to save life, without the performance of so formid- able an operation as that of the removal of the whole limb; more particularly when the health is good and the parts sound, with the exception of those immediately injured. The cases which seem more particularly favourable for this operation are those in which the head or neck of the bone is broken in military warfare by a musket-ball of small dimen- sions. Picture to yourselves a man lying with a small hole either before or behind in the thigh, no bleeding, no pain, nothing but an inability to move the limb, to stand upon it,— and think that he must inevitably die in a few weeks or months, worn out by continued pain and suffering, unless his thigh be amputated at the hip-joint, or he be relieved by the operation which, I insist upon it, ought first to be performed. 85. In order to do this operation with precision, the surgeon must make himself well-acquainted with the anatomy of the parts; and as the war in the Burman Empire may offer opportu- nities for its performance, a recapitulation of the essential points to be noticed may be useful. Two limbs should be injected so as to show the great arteries distinctly, and one should be dissected so that every part may be brought into view at once. That being done, attention should be directed to two points, the great trochanter, and the round head of the thigh bone in its socket, which is directly below and a little internal to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. When the thigh is bent in the dissected limb, the head of the bone will be seen rolling in the socket very distinctly, and in order to lay it bare for removal, the muscles &c around it must be divided. The first, on the anterior and outer part, is the tensor vagina femoris; this should be divided; outside