•Injuries of the if eatf.' : ; 287 returned to his duty. Twelve, months afferw.ards, having got drunk, he fell down in the streets of kbn't&afe&d died. The ball was found lying o.n the corpus callosum, where H had made a small hole or'sac for itself. After- the battle of Waterloo, I recommended, in the case of a soldier similarly wounded, that nothing should be done unless symptoms arose demanding the use of the trephine; as none occurred, and the wound healed, the man was sent home to Colchester, where he got drunk, and fell dead "in the market-place. The ball was lodged deeply in a cyst in the posterior lobe of the brain Persons rarely live with a foreign body lodged in the anterior lobe of the brain, although many recover with the loss of a portion of the brain at this part. An injury of apparently equal extent is more dangerous on the forehead than on the side or middle of the head, and much less so on the back part than on the side. A fracture of the vertex is of infinitely less importance than one of the base of the cranium, which, although not necessarily fatal, is always attended with the utmost danger. The treatment of these several injuries (although they may be at first sight apparently similar) cannot and must not be alike in all-a fact which should always be borne in mind in their management. In civil life both in hospitals and among private persons, injuries of the base of the cranium are most frequently met with, because they are generally the consequence of falls; whilst in military life injuries of the base of the skull are rare, and those of other parts are common. The practice of the military sunjeon with respect to injuries of the cranium and its contents, is herefore more successful, all things considered, than that of he surgeon in civil life, and particularly in a great metropolis- this may perhaps, account for some of the discrepancies in opinion which have existed between them. 243. Many physiologists have thought they could indicate the part of the brain injured from the symptoms which followed, and there are some which do not admit of dispute as to their cause; but there are very many which at present do not admit of being distinctly traced to their source. Birds small quadrupeds, fishes, and reptiles will live for some weeks after nearly all the contents of the skull have been removed