Manner of malting Incisions. S3 done at the inferior or opposite opening, if mischief be seriously impending, not so much on the principle of loosening the fascia as on that of taking away blood from the part imme- diately affected, and of making a free opening for the evacua- tion of the fluids about to be effused. It is no less an advantageous practice in the subsequent stages of gun-shot wounds, where sinuses form and are tardy in healing. A free incision is also very often serviceable when parts areunhealthy, although there may not be any considerable sinus. Upon the necessity of it where bones are splintered, there is no occasion in this place to insist. 20. In making incisions for the removal of balls in the vicinity of large vessels, particularly in the neck, the hand should always be unsupported, in order to prevent an accident from any sudden movement of the patient. This caution is the more necessary on the field of battle, where many things may give rise to sudden alarm. At the affair of Saca Parte, near Alfaiates, in Portugal, I stationed myself behind a small watch-tower, and the wounded were first brought to this spot for assistance. A howitzer had also been placed uponit,being rising ground; and at the moment I was extracting a ball situated immediately over the carotid artery, the gun was fired, to the inexpressible alarm of surgeon, patient, and orderly, who bolted in all directions. From my hand being unsupported, no mischief ensued, and the operation was com- pleted as soon as all had recovered their usual serenity. When a ball is discovered on the opposite side of a limb, through which it has nearly penetrated, but has not had sufficient power to overcome the resistance and elasticity of the skin, it should be removed by incision. An opening is thus obtained for the evacuation of any matter which may be formed in the long track of such a wound, and any other extraneous bodies are more readily extracted. When a ball has penetrated half through the thick part of the thigh, in such a direction that it cannot be readily removed by the opening at which it entered; or, from the vicinity of the great vessels, it may be considered unadvisable to cut for it in that direction; or if the ball cannot be distinctly felt by the finger through the soft parts, it ought not to be sought for at the moment,