Treatment of Hospital Gangrene. 11 ball No. 16 were more serious in their results than those made by ball No. 20, whilst there is another consideration which ought to have great weight in forming conclusions as to which ought to be preferred. The musket used by the British soldier to discharge his No. 16 ball is said to be from three to four pounds heavier than the modern one lately invented for carry- ing No. 20, whilst sixty rounds of No. 16 weigh three-quarters of a pouud more than the same number of No. 20. To me, who have seen 200 men out of 800 fall out and lie down during one day's march, so oppressed by the heat and the -weight they carried, as to be unable to move; and have even seen seven die in one prolonged march from the same cause, the diminution of four or five pounds weight to a soldier in march- ing order must be considered a benefit superseding all other advantages, even if that supposed to be derived from ball 16 over ball 20 could be distinctly shown. The proper treatment of hospital gangrene, so fatal to hundreds, and even thousands, during that war, has been, for the first time, placed beyond a doubt; and its value was confirmed, after the first battle with the Sikhs in India. That of injuries of the head is not less worthy of observation, as preceding in many points the practice since in civil hospitals supposed to be new. I do not intend to notice in the present lectures the treat- ment of ophthalmic or syphilitic diseases, on which so much light has been shed by the labours of the officers of the public service. They are each important subjects of themselves, re- quiring an especial elucidation. I shall therefore confine myself to those points which constitute, in a great degree, what our neighbours across the water call la haute chirurgie. In doing even this I fear I shall not be able to consider myself as quite unselfish. I am desirous, it is most true, that every soldier should have the opportunity of knowing how he ought to be spring wagon in use will, however, carry six people more comfortably than one. The unfortunate Charles Albert, aware of this fact, sent to me from Turin to recommend him a spring cart to carry the wounded he intended to have, having tried the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in vain, who in his turn had made fruitless attempts on everybody he thought might be able to give him information.