Hospital Gangrene from Inoculation. 157 structive applications, may be considered to be infectious as well as contagious. This infection can penetrate the dressings so as to affect the ulcer through them, although requiring a difference of time in different parts of the body. Ulcers on the lower ex- tremity experienced the influence of the morbid poison in general at an earlier period than those on the upper extremity; and a wound might be seen in a healthy state on the arm, whilst one on the leg was evidently suffering from this disease, for some days, if the complaint had become mild, or somewhat chronic, but not if the morbid poison was in its active state, when the deterioration of the ulcers on the arm was almost, if not quite, contemporaneous with that on the leg. 165. Mr. Blackadder has given the following account of the disease from inoculation in his own person, which is, therefore, more to be relied upon than any other:— " "While engaged in examining the stump of a patient who had died from this disease, I accidentally wounded one of my fingers with the point of a double-edged scalpel, but so slightly, that not a drop of blood made its appearance, and on this account I did not consider any particular precautionary means necessary. In the course of about sixty hours, however, the wound had become inflamed, and to which I was attracted by an occasional smart, stinging sensation, which ultimately ex- tended a considerable way up the arm. On the fourth day, tho inflammation had increased, and the stinging sensation was almost constant. Headache, nausea, and general indis- position followed, with frequent chills, which increased very much towards evening; but which, with the other symptoms, were considerably relieved by the use of neutral salts, the pediluvium, and warm diluents. A vesicle, having a depression in its centre, and containing a watery fluid of a livid colour, was now forming upon a hard and elevated base; the sur- rounding integuments became tumefied, of an anserine ap- pearance, and extremely sensitive to the touch; and at about the distance of the fourth of an inch from the base of the tumour, a very distinct areola, of a bluish-red colour, made its appearance, and remained visible for several days. At this period, circumstances rendered it necessary for me to be ex- p