Langenbeck's Operations on the Fingers. 131 sides. The square flap from the upper part of the finger is pre- ferable, when the joint with the metacarpal bone is to be operated upon, the commencing points of the flap being united by a transverse incision on the under part of the joint. It should be recollected, that in all these excisions the larger end of bone belongs to that which is not removed, as may be shown by bending the finger; and that the ligamentous attachment be- tween the metacarpal bones, connecting a middle one to its fellows on each side, should be cut through, when the joint will be easily dislocated. Attention should be paid to the division of the lateral ligaments in the removal of any of the bones of the fingers. Professor B. Langenbeck has operated in some instances, and he says successfully, without the loss of the finger, by sawing off, in the first case, the articulating ends of the first phalanx and of the metacarpal bone of the fore-finger, in consequence of an injury from a rotating piece of machinery; in another, the ends of the first and second phalanges of the middle finger after a severe laceration; and in a third case, by sawing off the end of the second phalanx, and removing the whole of the bone of the third of the forefinger from the soft parts, leaving the nail; the man recovering with a shortened but useful finger. In all these cases the flexor and extensor tendons were from the first uninjured. M. Langenbeck has also removed the metacarpal bone of the thumb; a new bone as a substitute being subsequently formed in its place, although the periosteum had been removed with it, which, however, he is always desirous of separating from the bone, and leaving behind if possible, although he does not consider its remaining in the wound to be essentially neces- sary for the reproduction of the bone. To do this operation, he directs an incision to be made along the whole length of the bone towards the palmar aspect, thus avoiding the tendons. Then free both articulating extremities, and separate the soft parts from the body of the bone, which is to be held firmly, and drawn outwards by a strong pair of forceps, made for the purpose, with two bent points, or long teeth, to each extremity. As much as possible of the periosteum is to be left in the