Illustrative Cases. 326 said, on coughing; he was also quite deaf, with a little pain on the right side of the head. The bowels were well opened, and he lost sixteen ounces of blood. On the evening of the 3rd of August, four days after the accident, paralysis of the muscles of the bight side of the face supplied by the portio dura came on, or was first observed. Pulse 80. lie was well purged, but lost no blood, as he was apparently weak and the pulse soft; it fell next day to 72. Mercury was now admini- stered twice a day until the mouth became sore. On the 18th of September he was discharged, cured of the paralysis, the wound on the head being open, and a piece of bone bare and likely to exfoliate. October 8. Re-admitted in consequence of great headache after drunkenness, with numbness of the toes and fingers; he was well purged, and felt relieved. He remained in the hospital for a month, his mouth being again slightly affected, occasionally drinking in spite of all remon- strance; he then returned to his work on the piers of West- minster Bridge.' On the 8th of June several small pieces of bone came away; and the wound nearly healed. The course of the fracture can be traced, in consequence of the scalp having adhered to the bone, causing a slight depression and hardness, which can be felt by the finger, extending down to the ear. An ostler was thrown from a horse on his head, and was carried to the "Westminster Hospital late at night in a state of stupefaction; no other injury could be discovered. The next morning he could answer questions, although not always correctly; complained of pain in his head, had bled from the ears all night, and had vomited some blood two or three times. Pupils dilated, but they contract on bringing a lighted candle near them; the left eyelid more open than the right; pulse 52; very restless, and constantly turning in bed. V.S. ad gxxiv. Calomel and colocynth:—salts and senna. Cold to the head. The pulse rose to 60 after the loss of blood. 2nd day. Is delirious; bleeding from the ears but trifling; complains of pain in the head; bowels open; passes urine freely; pulse 54, a little irregular. V.S. ad 5xvj gave relief. Continue calomel, and salts and senna. 3rd day. Restless all night; headache and thirst; bowels