Hunterian Tlieory of Ancwritm. 184 in bad cases, amputation should be resorted to in the first instance; although Desault had succeeded, in 1783, in a case of popliteal aneurism, in which, after the manner of Anel, he had placed the ligature on the artery a little above the aneurismal swelling in the ham. Mr. Hunter's contem- plative mind, aided by his knowledge of anatomy and of disease, led him to believe that the ligature thus applied on the artery in the ham failed because the vessel was unsound at that part, and incapable, therefore, of taking on those healthy actions necessary for the obliteration of its canal above the ligature, which are known to take place when the artery is in a normal state. He concluded that this was sufficient to account for the failures, without especially taking into con- sideration the difficulty of applying the ligature in the ham immediately above the aneurismal sac, and of the probability of its suppurating when thus molested; an occurrence aiding materially in the necessity for the loss of the limb by ampu- tation, performed then under circumstances of constitutional irritation, rendering it less likely to be attended with success. From the consideration of these and other circumstances, Mr. Hunter was induced to propose, in 1785, that the ligature should not be placed on the artery near the tumour in the ham, but at a greater distance on the fore part or middle of the thigh, and which Scarpa subsequently recommended might be placed even higher; which recommendation has been fol- lowed, and the spot now selected for this operation is at the lower part of the upper third of the thigh. This operation was therefore performed not only for aneurism, but improperly for a wound of the artery, not only in the ham but even in the leg, and failed in almost every instance, rendering ampu- tation necessary, which was generally followed by death. 181. The Hunterian theory implies: 1. That the artery is in general sound at the part in the front of the thigh selected for operation, whilst it is usually unsound in the popliteal space behind, or in the ham, where Desault operated, and Anel recommended it to be done, but which operation is now abandoned on the continents of Europe and America, as well as in England. 2. That a ligature can be readily placed upon it at a distance