Ligature of the Common Iliac Arteiij. 254 and a half below the inside of the anterior spine of the ilium, and the same distance within it, carrying it upwards, and diagonally inwards towards the edge of the rectus muscle above the umbilicus, so that the incision was between six and seven inches long. If the incision be made more outwardly, towards the side in a straight or vertical line from the ilium towards the ribs, great difficulty will be experienced in turn- ing over the peritoneum with its contents, so as to place the finger on the last lumbar vertebra, an inconvenience which will be avoided by making the incision diagonally, and of the length directed. After dividing the common integuments, the three layers of muscles were cut through in the most careful manner; the division of the transversalis muscle was attended with some difficulty, inasmuch as there was but little fascia transversalis, and the peritoneum was remarkably thin—as thin as white silver paper. On attempting to reach the under part on the inside of the ilium, so as to turn the peritoneum over, which in sound parts is always done without the least difficulty, I found that it could not be done on account of the tumour which projected inwards adhering to it; some bleeding took place from the large veins which surrounded if, giving rise to the caution not to proceed further in that direction. At this moment, in spite of the greatest possible care that could be taken by Mr. Keate, who raised and protected the peritoneum, a very small nick was made in it, sufficient to show the intestine through it. Perceiving that I could not tie the internal iliac as I had at first intended, and that I must place the ligature on the common iliac, I tried to gain a greater extent of space upwards; but where the tendon of the transversalis muscle passes directly across from the lower ribs to aid in forming the sheath of the rectus, the perito- neum is usually so thin and so closely attached to it, that it can only be separated with great difficulty. I knew this from the operation I had before performed, when, in spite of all the precaution I could then take, the peritoneum was at this spot slightly opened. It occurred in the present instance, and the right lobe of the liver was thus exposed. The opening thus made on the fore part of the abdomen