Illustrative Cases. 395 when he came into the hospital, until he fainted, and the bleeding was repeated every four hours, or even oftener, as long as pain or difficulty of breathing remained; under this improved practice all recovered. The lesson learned at Berry Head was not forgotten during the five subsequent years passed in British North America. The men were as healthy, the winds were sharper and colder, the vicissitudes of all kinds greater. Rum was cheaper, newer, and stronger than the gin of Torbay. The local inflammations were often as severe, whether of the pleura or of the lungs, and by no means less so of the bowels. A grenadier, some six feet three inches high, broad and well-framed in propor- tion, had drank a gallon of rum during the afternoon, and very narrowly escaped, even with the loss of nearly as much of his blood, abstracted in a few hours. His first bleeding was into the washhand-basin, until he fainted, lying on his back, and the bleedings were repeated as soon as he again began to feel pain, and whenever he felt a return of the pain he used to put his arm out of bed to have the vein re-opened, for Jack Martin was a very gallant fellow. This is given as an extreme case, to be borne in mind under circumstances somewhat similar, and particularly after injuries. In common cases of pleuritis and pneumonia in strong and healthy persons, and particularly of pleuritis, it is now not unusual to abstract blood with those who rely on its efficiency until the pain and difficulty of breathing are relieved, or fainting is about to take place. The patient should be raised in bed, the opening in the vein should be large, the flow of blood free. The quantity will vary from sixteen ounces to three times that amount in different people; but the important point is to repeat it as soon as the pain or the difficulty in breathing returns. It rarely happens that one bleeding, to whatever extent it may be carried, will suffice to remove the symptoms; and recur- rence should be had to this remedy as often as the pain and oppression require, and the action of the heart will bear it, especially during the first two or three days. It will often be necessary to have recourse to it in smaller quantities for the next four or six days, and again in less quantity on any return of the inflammatory symptoms. Where the patient is likely