Wounds of the Orbit. 360 284. Wounds of the bony parts within the orbit are often attended by the most serious consequences. A boy, nine years of age, was struck by his playfellow with the end of a thick iron wire on the right eye, which blackened it. There was no external wound; but as there was some bloody chemosis at the upper part and the inside, there was a probability of the wire having penetrated deeply, although the opening could not be discovered by the probe. The accident had happened two days before, but he did not think himself ill. He was well purged, and cold water was applied externally. Two days after, he complained of sickness, headache, and some pain over the brow. He was bled freely from the temple of that side by leeches, and well purged by calomel and jalap. On the sixth day his mother reported him as having been delirious and restless all night. He was found stupified, an- swering with difficulty and incoherently; pulse very quick, skin hot and dry, with some convulsive twitches of the face and arras; pupils slightly obeying the influence of a strong light, but not dilated. He was again bled freely from the temple, but his breathing became more difficult, he fell into a comatose state, and died in the night. On examining the head, the stiff iron wire was found to have passed under the upper eyelid between it and the eye, through the posterior part of the orbitar plate of the frontal bone and into the an- terior lobe of the brain, which was softened at that part, and bedewed with matter. A woman, who had been struck by her husband on the left eye with a tobacco-pipe, whilst preparing her frying-pan for cooking, knocked him down with the pan, and ruptured his right eye, which w.is lost. She then pulled out a piece of the pipe which was sticking in the orbit, between the lid and the upper and inside of her own eye, which was uninjured. She complained of little but the bruise, and rather brought her husband than herself for advice. Bled and purged, she did not complain of anything for several days, when she said she had been very ill all night, with nausea, headache, and shivering; with hot and dry skin, pulse very quick, the upper eyelid para- lytic; she looked very ill, became delirious at night, and died two days after the first complaint of serious illness. Ou exa-