of the External Carotid. 273 rayoides muscle, and the fascia. After the muscle has heen divided, the strong fascia must he carefully raised with the forceps and opened, and the operator will do wisely if he divide it upwards and downwards on a director. With the end of the scalpel or a blunt knife he should separate the cellular texture from the veins, which appear in this situation, and are often the source of much embarrassment. The sheath of the artery is to be opened over the centre of the vessel, and the ligature is to be passed around it as before. The descendens noni nerve runs in general on the outside of the artery in this part of the neck, and afterwards crosses over to the tracheal side. The par vagum, which lies in the angle formed poste- riorly by the apposition of the carotid artery and jugular vein, to which latter it is more particularly attached, is to be avoided on introducing the aneurismal needle; and on bringing it out on the inside, the same attention must be paid to pre- vent injury to the great sympathetic or any of its branches. The surgeon in both these operations should draw the ligature first a little outwards and then inwards, so as to enable him to ascertain that he has included nothing in it but the artery, which is to be tied with two knots; oue end may be cut off, or both may be twisted together, and brought out of the wound opposite where the vessel has been tied. The integu- ments should be accurately closed by adhesive plaster, and the patient put to bed with the head bent forwards, and pro- perly supported. He should eat as little solid food as possible until after the ligatures have come away, and observe even greater precautions as to quietude than in other instances. 231. The external carotid artery may be tied by an operation conducted in a similar manner. After the first incisions have been made, and the strong cervical fascia divided, the operator must feel for the pulsating vessel, which will be found on a line parallel with the cornu of the os hyoides, below which part the common trunk usually divides into the external and internal carotids, the external being the more superficial and internal of the two at their origin. The external carotid turns with its convexity inwards; nearly opposite to, but rather above the os hyoides it is crossed by the ninth or lingual nerve, the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles; it should be tied below this part.