Haemorrhage from Sloughing Slumps. comes should be well studied, and the shortest distance from the stump at which compression on the artery com- mands the bleeding carefully noted; at this spot the liga- ture should be applied, provided it be not within the sphere of the inflammation of the stump. In case the haemorrhage should only be restrained by pressure above the origin of the profunda, and repeated attempts to secure the vessel on the surface of the stump have failed, amputation is preferable to tying the artery in the groin, when the strength of the patient will bear it. "When haemorrhage takes place after amputation at the shoulder-joint, it is a most dangerous occurrence. An incision should then be made through the integuments and across the great pectoral muscle, when the artery may be readily exposed, and a ligature placed upon it without difficulty anywhere below the clavicle. If the state of the stump in any of these cases depend upon the bad air of the hospital, the patient had better be exposed to the inclemency of the weather, than be allowed to remain in it. In crowded hospitals, haemorrhages from the face of an irri- table stump are not unfrequent, and often cause a great deal of trouble and distress. It is not a direct bleeding from a vessel of sufficient size to be discovered and secured, but an oozing from some part of the exposed granulations, which are soft, pale, and flaccid. On making pressure on them, the haemorrhage ceases, but shortly after re-appears, and even becomes dangerous. This haemorrhage is usually preceded by pain, heat, and throbbing, in the surface from which it proceeds. There is irritation of the habit generally, and a tendency to direct debility. The proper treatment consists in the removal of the patient to the open air, with an antiphlogostic regimen in the first instance, followed by the use of quinine and acids; cold to the stump, in the shape of pounded ice or iced water; with occasional styptics to suppress the immediate bleeding. Escharotic and stimulating applications should be used with caution.