Fractures of the Cartilages. 445 usually broken into several splinters of different lengths, some of which frequently accompany the ball in the commencement of its course, or are even carried into the substance of the lung, together with a part of the wadding of the gun, or of the clothes of the patient. These should if possible be extracted if they can be seen, and the sharp ends of the ribs rounded off. When the ball fractures a rib on passing out of the chest, the splinters are driven outwardly, and should be removed by incision. 339. When a ball strikes a cartilage of one of the ribs, it does not punch out a piece as it were, but merely divides and passes through it, bending it inwards, rarely tearing away a portion. The parts of the cartilage thus bent and turned inwards are to be drawn outwards, and replaced by the end of the finger, a bent probe, or other curved instrument. A ball, when striking obliquely, but with force, on the chest, will frequently penetrate, and then run round, between the lung and the pleura lining the wall of the chest, for a considerable distance, before it makes its exit. In this case the lung may be only slightly bruised, without the pleura pulmonalis or costalis being more than ruffled. In others the lung shows a distinct track or hollow made by the ball. A shade deeper, and the ball penetrates, and forms not a hollow, but a canal. The patient in all these cases spits blood, and the first symptoms are severe; they frequently however subside, and are not always followed, under proper treatment, by effusion. 340. When a ball fairly passes through the lung, it leaves a track more or less bruised, which continues for a time to bleed according to the size of the vessels which are injured thus making a wound more dangerous as it approaches the root of the lung where the vessels are largest. More or less blood is spit up, or if effused it gravitates in the chest, until it rests on the diaphragm or other most depending part according to the position of the patient. If it should be in quantity, the filling up of the chest may be ascertained by auscultation, if the wound be closed. As the quantity of effused blood increases, the lung becomes more and more com- pressed, until at last the haemorrhage ceases under pressure if the wound be covered; and the patient is saved for the Q Q