Excision of the Knee-joint. 94 moment; for if suppuration take place throughout the cavity of the joint, it is followed, in most instances, by ulceration of the cartilages and caries of the hones. By local and general bleeding, the application of cold, rigid abstinence, and the straight position, a recovery may sometimes be effected; but wounds of the knee-joint, however simple, should always be considered as of a very dangerous nature, infinitely more so than those of the shoulder, the elbow, or the ankle. When a poultice is applied to a gunshot wound of this kind, I consider it the precursor of amputation. Col. Donnellan, of the 48th Regt., was wounded, at the battle of Talavera, in the knee-joint, by a musket-ball, which gave him so little uneasiness, that he could scarcely be persuaded to proceed to the rear. At a little distance from the fire of the enemy, we talked over the affairs of the moment, when, tossing his leg about on his saddle, he declared he felt no inconvenience from the wound, and would go back, as he saw his corps was very much exposed. After he had stayed with me a couple of hours, I persuaded him to go into the town. This injury, although at first to all appearance so trifling, proceeded so rapidly as to prevent any relief at last being obtained from amputation, and caused his death in a few days. 89. Excision of the knee-joint is an operation attended, until lately, with so little success, that it has been rarely per- formed. It is probable that the result may be more favourable in cases of injury in which the "femur and tibia have both been much injured by a musket-ball, without doing so much mischief to the soft parts as would have rendered amputation necessary. In such cases, provided every accommodation, and particularly absolute rest, can be obtained for the sufferer, excision should be attempted, in preference to the amputation recommended in 84 and 85. Three cases of success have lately been pub- lished by Mr. Jones, of the island of Jersey; and his method of operating is here transcribed, as sent to me by himself. " In my first case, the incisions were in this form, H, two lateral along each side of the joint, and a transverse one im- mediately over the middle of the patella. The flaps were then dissected upwards and downwards, the patella removed, (and I do not see any advantage can be gained by keeping it, even if not diseased;) the crucial and lateral ligaments were