Congestion precedes Inflammation. 301 250. It sometimes happens that congestion precedes inflam- mation to such an extent as to give rise to stupefaction and symptoms of compression. A Portuguese soldier of General Harvey's brigade of the fourth division of infantry, was struck by a musket-ball at the first siege of Badajos, on the top and towards the back part of the head; it divided the soft parts, and grazed the bone with- out fracturing it. He walked from the trenches to the rear, and said he was not much hurt. About five or six hours afterwards, he was found apparently asleep, and could not be awakened, on which I was asked to see him. Finding the pulse at 60, regular and full, although compressible, I directed him to be raised aud blooded until he fainted. When he had lost some twenty ounces of blood, he opened his eyes, re- covered his senses, and knew those about him. The next day he went to the rear, free from all symptoms, and rejoined some time afterwards in apparent good health, although he complained more than was usual to him of the heat of the sun. In some less important cases of injury, one bleeding will answer the purpose; cupping and leeches may also be resorted to with advantage; but in all very severe ones general blood- letting is the only trustworthy source of relief. It should always be done with effect, the finger examining the opposite pulse, and regulating the amount to be taken away. At an early period of concussion, the quantity drawn should not be large: it should increase with the urgency for its abstraction, and diminish with the frequency of the repetition, being always, however, carefully regulated by the effect. The inability of bloodletting to overcome the disease will be shown by the increase in frequency of the pulse, its diminution in power under slight compression, its greater softness, together with the persistence of the other symptoms. It is in these cases that repeated small bleedings, to the amount of six or eight ounces, ought to be resorted to, and when it is doubtful whether the loss of blood can or cannot be borne; they may then be considered not as curative but as explorative measures, although they sometimes prove very effective. D D