234 Wownds of the Axillary Artery. through precept supported by experience, he surveys the scene with perfect calmness: taking the great artery between the finger and thumb of one hand, he places the points of all the other fingers, of both if necessary, on the next largest vessels; or he presses the flaps or sides of the wound together until his other hand can be set at liberty by an assistant, or in consequence of a ligature having been passed around the principal artery. This is a scene sufficient to try the presence of mind of any man; but he is not a good surgeon who is not equal to it—who does not delight in the recollection of it when his patient is in safety, and his recovery assured. It was in consequence of these remarks that my old friend, Sir Charles Bell, whose loss to science cannot be too much re- gretted, represented me seated on a pack-saddle on the back of a bourro (Anglice, a jack-ass), on the top of the Pyrenees, expatiating on their merits (which he did not believe) to the descendants of the Bearnois of Henri Quatre on one side, and to the children of the lieges of Ferdinand and Isabella on the other; but no one now disputes their accuracy. The surgery of the Peninsular war was, in consequence of its great oppor- tunities, several years in advance of the surgery of civil life. 199. The principles laid down for the treatment of wounded arteries in the lower extremity are equally to be observed with respect to the upper. There is, however, little or no fear of mortification taking place in the upper extremity, the col- lateral circulation being more direct and free; whilst there is greater danger from this cause of haemorrhage from the lower end of the artery, if a ligature should not have been placed upon it, or if it should not be retained a sufficient length of time. 200. The error of placing a ligature on the subclavian artery above the clavicle, for a wound of the axillary below it, should never be committed. One person dies for one who lives after this operation, when performed under favourable circum- stances, independently of the loss which may be sustained by a recurrence of bleeding from the original wound, which is always to be expected and ought to take place; when it does not take place, it is the effect of accident—which accident in all probability occurs from the state of absolute rest having been carefully observed.