Important Cases. 64 •which lasted several hours, and reduced him much, returning at intervals until the evening of the 8th. Small quantities of ■wine and opium agreed best, and a blister was applied to the scrobiculus cordis. On the 9th, he complained of pain and tenderness in the abdomen, which were relieved by fomenta- tions and an enema. The stump looked well, and discharged healthy pus in small quantity; and the ligature on the brachial artery came away. On the 10th, his strength failed, and the tongue and teeth were covered by a dark sordes. The adhe- sions of the stump appeared disposed to separate. At night he was restless, with low delirium; and on the 11th, died, with the complete facies Hippocratica. On raising the sternum, the pleura of the left lung was found adhering to that of the ribs, and covered by a thick layer of coagulable lymph. The lung was highly inflamed; and on cutting into its substance, a number of small tubercles were observed. The pericardium and left cavity of the thorax contained more than the usual quantity of fluid. During the progress of this case, eleven days from the amputation no one symptom existed which could induce a suspicion of inflammation going on in the thorax. The stump was in a sloughing state, but the disease did not extend along the brachial vein. Thomas Haynes, 23rd Light Dragoons, aged nineteen, was wounded by a spear on the back of the left forearm, at Water- loo; the wound appeared to do well until he left Brussels for England, when it assumed an unfavourable appearance, and on his arrival at Colchester, on the 14th of July, it was in a sloughing state. The pain was excessive, and the tenderness around the whole circumference of the sore was so great, that he could not suffer the slightest pressure with the finger. He was largely bled, and a solution of sulphuric acid, one drachm, to twelve ounces of water, was applied twice a day to the whole surface, and the whole kept wet with cold water; this treatment was continued until the 21st, during which period he was bled five times, to about twenty ounces each time. The acid solution was increased from one drachm to an ounce, and care was taken that the sloughing portions only were touched with it. His health was considerably amended, and on the whole a favourable result was expected. At two on