H6 Position, in Gun-shot Fractures of the Femur. of inspector. The custom of the present day is to promote men more on account of the length of their services than of their value; whereas, to make good physicians and surgeons it should he more from their value, combined with a due regard to a moderate, yet sufficient length of service, which certainly should never exceed, even if it amounted to twenty years; ten in time of war. A matter of expense. 154. The position of the patient in a gun-shot fracture of the thigh or leg is of the utmost importance. He should lie on his back, and the limb should be straight. It is almost impos- sible to keep a man's thigh in the bent position, or on its side, without his turning on his back, and the union of the bone, if it take place at all, must then be at an angle. The bent position forward, or on an inclined plane, is defective, inasmuch as the matter, which must necessarily be secreted in great quantity, will gravitate backwards in spite of every care to prevent it. When a proper bedstead is used, a slightly inclined plane will sometimes be advantageous at a later period, when the body may also be raised, even to the erect position, the principal object being to take off the action of the two muscles inserted into the smaller trochanter, which, with the rotators behind, raise and evert the upper end of the broken bone. This direction outwards should be met by a similar direction of the lower part of the bone, and by the application, from time to time, of a proper splint, compress, and bandage, on the ele- vated bone, if they can be borne with perfect ease. 155. Splints are of various kinds, and made of different substances. The discovery of gutta percha has enabled some to be made of that substance, which, when moulded into sheets, of from one to two eighths of an inch in thickness, can be rendered soft and pliable by the application of hot water, re- gaining its firmness as it dries. Splints can thus be made of any size or length,andof any form, with apertures, if necessary, for the passage of the discharge from the wounds. Leather tanned without oil, and called splint-leather, is equally useful; if, when dried, the splints thus made become too hard, and press unequally, they can be softened by hot water, and re- moved and replaced with little comparative inconvenience. One wooden splint of more than the length of the limb,