412 Illustrative Cases. cavity. As it did not appear that he had any chance of re- covery, unless another opening were made lower than the sixth rib, in a more dependent position, I proposed the opera- tion to him, but he would not submit; and after a time he left the hospital, and went into the country, where he died. A non-commissioned officer, of the 2nd division of cavalry, was wounded at the battle of Albuhera, on the 16th July, 1811, in several places, by the lances of the Polish cavalry; one of these penetrated the left side of the chest behind, imme- diately below and in front of the inferior angle of the scapula. He spat and coughed up blood, and lost so much from the wound, that he became insensible, the bleeding having been stopped by a part of his shirt being bound upon it tightly by means of his woollen sash. Brought to the village of Valverde, my attention was drawn to him some days afterwards, in conse- quence of the difficulty of breathing having increased, so that he was obliged to be raised nearly to an upright position, as well as from his inability to rest on the part wounded, round which a dark-blue inflammatory swelling had taken place, the wound having closed. An incision being made into it, a quantity of bloody purulent matter, and clots of blood, flowed from it. The incision was then enlarged, so as to allow of a direct opening into the cavity of the chest, which was kept open. The relief was immediate. He was removed to Elvas, apparently doing well, some three weeks afterwards. This case offered the nearest approach I have seen to the ecchymosed oedema described by Valentin as accompanying effusions of blood into the cavity of the chest, and, as well as the following, is an instance of operations, not by election, but necessity. A French soldier had been wounded at Almaraz, by a musket-ball, which went through the right side of the chest, in a line nearly horizontal from a little below, and to the outside of the nipple, backwards. The first symptoms having subsided, he gradually descended the Tagus to Lisbon, where, after some months of continual discharge, the wounds closed, first the back, and then the front. He did not recover his strength, always looking sickly, and suffering from pain, diffi- culty of breathing, and other inconveniences which did not