Removal of the Head of the Femur. 89 this the gluteus medius must be cut, going to be inserted into the upper and outer part of the top of the great tro- chanter; deeper, and between these two last, lies the gluteus minimus, winding forwards to be inserted into the anterior portion of the same part. Now, let the great gluteus muscle be cut through backwards in a curve, and the insertions of four muscles at one part—viz., the pit or fossa immediately behind the great trochanter—will be brought into view; these are the pyriformis, the gemelli, reckoned as one muscle, and the obturatores externus and internus. They should all be cut through within half an inch from their insertion. The square muscle lying or placed immediately below them, and running from the ischium to the inter- trochanteric line, is the quadratus femoris; it must be cut across. The thigh-bone will now be seen to roll on the least motion being given to it, in the socket, at the back part where the muscles were divided. The surgeon should now open into the joint with great care at this part, and by a gentle rotation of the knee inwards the head of the thigh-bone will be readily dislocated downwards and outwards. The ligamentum teres, or the round ligament, as it is termed, although it is trian- gular at its origin, and the remainder of the capsular ligament, should now be divided by keeping the knife close to the bone, when everything will be exposed and ready for the application of the saw, in the particular cases alluded to, and to which this operation is most applicable. Pause a moment, and view the parts before the saw is applied. Two strong muscles are inserted into the small trochanter by a common tendon, the iliacus internus and psoas magnus. This insertion should remain untouched if the fracture should not extend below the little trochanter. It is not always necessary to injure them, and they will be of great use afterwards, if the operation should prove successful. If the neck of the bone be broken through, rotating the thigh as I have directed may not assist much in dislocating its head. But then, the separation of the fractured parts may be readily completed, and the piece detached, when the head of the bone will be more easily removed. The sawing may be accomplished with the greatest ease by a small common saw, or by the i 2