ply such deficiencies as I have been unable to fill up. 13 Fractures of the Thigh. added that if the surgeon doe9 not know how to do these ope- rations he had better cut off the arm. The subject of gun-shot fractures of the thigh and leg I have always considered one of the greatest difficulty, and have always approached it with more diffidence than any other in surgery, not from any want of experience or of observation on that experience, without which it is of no value, but from' the painful nature of the results, and particularly from the unfortunate circumstances under which the sufferers were placed. It is easy to say, cut off the limb, and avoid all further trouble; but amputation is the opprobrium of surgery, even when successful. There is much, then, to be learned, and the knowledge required is obtained more slowly than might be desired with an army in the field. It will hardly be believed that there was not a splint with the army in the Peninsula fit for a broken thigh, when placed in the straight position, the only one in which it should be placed, until I, as principal medical officer in Lisbon, made a requisition for them in 1813. It was more than a week after the battle of Waterloo before the first broken thigh was placed in the straight position, and then only on my earnest remonstrances against the treatment pursued in all these cases. It is not easy to overcome the prejudices of education, when men are not thoroughly im- bued with a love of work, or -with a desire to improve, or have not had the opportunities of improving their know- ledge of their profession. It was difficult then, and it will possibly be so again, to make the authorities at home under- stand what they had not learned practically; and more difficult to induce them to move out of their ways, which were often anti- quated, unless influenced by some private interests. We must hope it will hereafter be otherwise, and that merit and not age will be fostered and rewarded, as the best encouragement of laborious and scientific pursuits. I regret I can only make this subject as plain in its nature as the present state of our know- ledge will permit; and I shall have many directions to give, many recommendations to make, many suggestions to offer for improvement, to which I shall call your earnest attention, with the hope that some one will hereafter arise who shall correct the errors I may not have been able to avoid ; and sup-