209 Ligature of the Anterior Tibial Artery. is to be made in this line down to the fascia covering the muscles; if the foot be bent upwards, and again extended, the bellies of the tibialis anticus and extensor digitorum com- munis muscles will be more distinctly seen. The fascia is to be divided for the whole length of the incision between them; they are then to be separated for the same distance by the scalpel and the finger; the artery will be found close on the interosseous ligament, between its two venae comites. A case has been supposed, in which a knife, a sword, or other narrow instrument, having penetrated the upper part of the leg, has wounded the anterior tibial artery just after it has been given off from the posterior tibial, behind the inter- osseous space or ligament. The bleeding is free, and from the wound in the front of the leg, although the artery cannot be secured, from the narrowness of the space between the tibia and fibula, behind which space it is situated. This very peculiar injury, which may, however, occur at any time, cannot be known until an incision has been made on the fore part of the leg, and the bleeding point seen so deep as not to admit of two ligatures being placed on the artery above and below it. In such a case, an incision is to be made through the calf of the leg, when the artery can be secured without diffi- culty; no great inconvenience would result from the two operations. If the sword-wound should have been a small one, compression on its surface would in all probability have been had recourse to in the first instance, which, whilst it prevented the flow of blood externally, would scarcely impede its effusion above the fascia and under the soleus muscle, the distention of which and of the calf of the leg would, to a careful observer, point out the evil, and lead to the operation being done in the first instance through the calf of the leg. In the middle third of the leg, the origin of the extensor proprius pollicis intervenes between the tibialis anticus and the extensor communis digitorum muscles. The anterior tibial nerve, a branch of the peroneal, attaches itself to the artery a little above this middle part, and is usually found in front of it, although it is not constantly in that situation: care should always be taken to avoid it. In the inferior part of the leg, the artery lies on the tibia, a a 2