Abscess in the Liven: 366 methodical treatment of the low inflammatory state of the brain, and by such pressure at a later period as can be borne with comfort, and persisted in with propriety. 286. It has been supposed that abscess of the liver followed injuries of the head in a more peculiar manner than injuries of other parts of the body; an opinion upon which too much reliance should not be placed; for experience has induced me to think that unless the liver be really injured by a fall or blow, it only becomes affected in a secondary manner, in a similar way to the lungs or other viscera, or to the joints or other parts. The new disease in these cases is always insidious in its nature and progress, and for the most part fatal in its result, as has been explained at length, (Aph. 58, p. 57, et seq.) 287. When a person has received a serious blow on the head, which has given rise to an exfoliation of the bone, or to, a very slight depression of the skull, he is rarely restored to his previous healthy and natural state. The scalp adheres firmly to the bone beneath, instead of sliding loosely over it, and a deep hollow is formed, which would imply that greater mis- chief had been done and a greater loss of bone had been sus- tained than actually occurred. This is the more remarkable when pieces of bone have been removed. Major D., of the Indian army, was wounded on the left side of the forehead at its upper part by a musket-ball, at the assault of Mahidpoore. Several pieces of bone were removed, and the pulsation of the brain was evident under the discharge. The point of a little finger passes into the hole left by the cicatrization of the wound, to a greater extent than might be expected. This officer suffers from headaches, augmented or brought on by any exertion of body or mind. He cannot bear exposure to the heat of the sun. He can scarcely drink three glasses of wine without feeling their effect. Persons so afflicted can bear no great exertion of any kind. They fall down under exposure to heat. They are easily inebriated, rendered furious by a small quantity of liquor, and often become stupified, comatose, or even die suddenly. In addition to these evils, which may be avoided by care, many are subjected to fits, which are apparently epileptic; and others suffer from such intolerable pain in the part injured, as well as in the head