Wounds of the Vertebral Artery. The operators at first thought they were mistaken in sup- posing that they had tied the vertebral artery, as the vessel seemed quite free, whilst it is known to be protected by the transverse processes in that locality, and believed they had secured the inferior thyroid. The haemorrhage ceased at once, and some smaller vessels were then tied, among which was the inferior thyroid artery. Everything now went on favourably at first; the threads fell on the ninth day after the deligation of the vessel, and the patient remained in a satis- factory state for the next five days, when severe febrile symp- toms, unpreceded by shivering, set in, and on the eighteenth day after the operation, the twenty-seventh after the inflic- tion of the wound, the patient was suddenly seized with a violent pain in the cervical region, cried out loudly, and fell into deep coma, which lasted for about seven hours, when she expired, notwithstanding the most strenuous means were used to rouse her. On the post-mortem examination the course of the ball was found as stated above—viz., it had run from the integuments to the body of the sixth cervical vertebra, leaving the trachea and oesophagus internally, and the carotid sheath and its contents externally, untouched. The inferior thyroid artery was wounded just before it reaches the thyroid gland, and had a firm clot, about half an inch in length, filling its cylinder. The transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra was fractured, and had left the wounded vertebral artery unpro- tected. The vessel above and below the wound in its coats was filled with a firm clot for about an inch in each direction. The body of the sixth cervical vertebra had been perforated by the ball, which had dug for itself a canal communicating with the cavity of the spine by a small aperture, evidently of very recent formation. This aperture resulted clearly from the necrosis of the thin shell of bone which formed the bottom of the canal. The cancellous texture of the body of the vertebra was infiltrated with pus, and a sero-purulent fluid was found in the spinal canal, both in the cellular tissue external to the dura mater, and in the sub-serous texture of the meninges. No other lesion existed in any other part of the frame.