;'1G Mxiscular Parts not to he included in a Ligature. them in apposition, as it does not lead to the permanent cohe- sion of the parts, while it exposes the sufferers to all the dangers which the irritation of sutures commonly occasions. Chelius recommends" several flat ligatures to be introduced through the skin and muscles, the needle being placed close to the muscular surface of the peritoneum." Graefe (section 514) is declared to be of the same opinion, he recommending, however, that a soft tape should be substituted for a ligature. Reference is made to Weber in support of this practice, to which Sir. South, the translator, does not raise any objection. 331. In all simple wounds of the wall of the belly, of moderate extent, the edges of the wound should be brought together, by means of a small needle and a fine silk thread passed through the skin, and the loose cellular membrane only, which is in contact with it, by a continuous suture without puckering, in the manner a tailor would fine-draw a hole in a coat. This gives a certain degree of support to the parts beneath, and if proper attention be paid to maintaining a well-regulated relaxed position of the muscles, no great separation takes place in wounds of a reasonable extent, and little or none in a wound of smaller dimensions. An effective support should be also given by strips of adhesive plaster extending to some distance around the body: a bandage rarely does good, and will assuredly do mischief, unless it be very carefully applied and watched, so as only to give support, and not to make undue pressure. The position of the patient is of the greatest importance: its essential object is to bring the edges of the incision, and especially of that in the peritoneum, as nearly as possible in apposition, so that the space between them may be more easily filled up by the opposing peritoneum forming the anterior layer of the omentum, or by the outer covering of the intestine, if the omentum should not intervene. This is to be effected by the gentlest inclination of the body towards the wound, which may be supposed capable of keep- ing these parts in apposition; for although the omentum and intestines are often capable of undergoing a considerable degree of motion from side to side, independently of that peculiar worm-like movement on themselves which in the intestines is called peristaltic, they very frequently do not