32 Reasons for Dilatation. have passed beyond the reach of the finger, a blunt silver sound or elastic bougie may be used, and the opposite side of the limb should be carefully examined, and pressure made on the wounded side, when it will probably be found more or less deeply seated. If the ball should not be discoverable by these means, the surgeon should consider every symptom, and every part of anatomy connected with the wound, before he decides on leaving the ball to the operations of nature. 19. It is unnecessary to dilate a wound without a precise object in view, which might render an additional opening ne- cessary. This dilatation or opening should always be carried through the fascia of the limb. A wound ought not to be dilated because such operation may at a more distant period become necessary. The necessity must first be seen, when the operation follows of course. Suppose that a man be brought for assistance with a wound through the thigh, in the immediate vicinity of the femoral artery, and which he says bled considerably at the moment of injury, but had ceased. Is the surgeon warranted in cutting down upon the artery, and putting ligatures upon it on suspicion? Every man in his senses ought to answer No. The surgeon should take the precaution of applying a tour- niquet loosely on the limb, and of placing the man in a situa- tion where he can receive constant attention in case of need; but he is not authorized to proceed to any operation unless another bleeding should demonstrate the injury, and the necessity for suppressing it. By the same reasoning, incisions are not to be made into the thigh on the speculation that they may be hereafter required. If the confusion which has enveloped this subject be removed, and bleeding arteries, broken bones, and the lodgment of extraneous substances, be admitted to be the only legitimate causes for dilating wounds in the first instance, the arguments in favour of primary dila- tation in other cases, must fall to the ground. When the inflammation, pain, and fever run high, an inci- sion should be made by introducing the knife into the wound, and cutting for the space of two, three, or four inches, accord- ing to circumstances, in the course of the muscles, carefully avoiding any other parts of importance. The same should be