Removal of the Head oj the Femur. 90 improved chain saw, which will do good service. The arteries to be divided are all of small size. They are seen filled with red injection, yet they are so small as scarcely to be seen, and they could not give any trouble, for the wound is so large as to give easy access to every part, and readily admit of any bleeding vessel being tied without difliculty. The round ligament should be cut off close to the socket, and any portion of the capsular ligament and cartilaginous edge of the acetabulum which can be quickly removed with it, but no time should be unnecessarily lost in trying to remove the cartilaginous lining of the cavity itself, which will be gradually absorbed. The sawn end of the femur should now be brought up into the cavity, and kept there if possible by a supporting splint and bandage, with the hope that it may become rounded and adhere by a newly-formed ligamentous structure, in the same manner as the end of the humerus does to the glenoid cavity of the scapula, when similarly treated. The edges of the wound are then to be brought in apposition, and retained so by two or three sutures. The gluteus magnus slides over the trochanter major, having a bursa between them, and this part will not readily throw out granulations. The surgeon may therefore be less solicitous about the accu- racy of the apposition of the edges at the under part, through which the discharge will more easily pass. The outside must however be supported by sticking-plaster and a compress, to prevent any bagging, and to keep all parts in contact. 86. The surgeon should now do the operation on the undis- sected limb. The first cut through the skin, integuments, and fascia lata, should be a curved one, beginning just over the inner edge of the tensor vaginte femoris muscle, as shown on the other leg, curving downwards and outwards, so as to pass across the bone an inch at least below the trochanter major, when it should turn upwards to the extent of three inches or more, as the size of the limb may require. This incision or riap should, when complete, divide, in addition to the integu- ments, the fascia lata, the tensor vaginaa femoris, and part of the gluteus maximus. The flap thus formed must be raised or turned up by an assistant, to enable the operator to get at and divide the parts below, in the order before named. It is not