340 Illustrative Cases. the brain; twenty ounces of blood were taken immediately from the arm, purgatives and diaphoretics were ordered, and the strictest abstinence enjoined. 23rd. Venesection was repeated, as well as the other means usually adopted to reduce high action. 24th. Completely relieved. 26th. An- other portion of the cranium removed, the dura mater being fully exposed; the general health in the best state. August 3rd. Doing remarkably well; the wound healthy; the pulsation of the brain evident; the power of speech per- fectly restored. The ball yet remains in, according to the opinion of the patient (who is a fine intelligent lad), and he thinks has gradually descended towards the petrous portion of the left temporal bone. Sent to England at the end of the month, the wound being healed. When I saw this man at Antwerp I gave my opinion with- out hesitation, that the bone and the ball ought to have been removed in the first instance, when he would have had a better chance for perfect recovery. The operation, when afterwards performed for the removal of the loose pieces of bone, placed his life in great jeopardy. He was discharged the service with the ball lodged, and it is more than probable that he did not long survive, which he might have done if the ball had been removed when it was first felt within the skull. In the following case the ball could not perhaps have been removed in the first instance with propriety; it might how- ever have been lying on the dura mater, or near it, within reach, and the actual state of things ought to have been ascertained; the surgeon afterwards deciding whether any further operation was necessary. Thomas O'Brien, 28th regiment, aged twenty-three, was wounded by a musket-ball ou the 16th of June at Quatrebras; the bullet penetrated the occipital bone below and to the right of the junction of the lambdoidal and sagittal sutures. On his arrival at Colchester, the wound was healthy in appearance and healing rapidly. It appeared from his own account that for some hours after the injury he was totally deprived of sight; since that time he has been constantly more or less affected with headaches, for which he has been