284 Ligature of the Radial Artery. inches and a half in extent along the radial edge of this tendon, dividing the fascia of the arm which covers it. The artery will be felt below the deep-seated fascia, and on dividing it, will be seen with its venae comites, the ulnar nerve being behind it, and which must be avoided in the applica- tion of a ligature. 241. The radial artery may be secured by ligature with great ease in any part of its course to the wrist. At the upper third of the arm, the radial artery is covered by the approximation of the supinator radii longus and pronator radii teres muscles. To expose it at this part, a line may be drawn from the middle of the bend of the arm to the thumb, which will indicate its course; or the supinator radii longus being put into action, an incision is to be made from the bend of the arm obliquely outwards along its ulnar edge, to the ex- tent of three inches, avoiding the median vein, but dividing the integuments and the fascia. The supinator muscle is then to be gently separated from the pronator radii teres by the handle of the knife, and the artery will be felt covered by the deep-seated fascia; on the division of which it will be seen with its venae comites lying on some adipose membrane, and on some branches of the musculo-spiral nerve, which separate it from the tendon of the biceps, and are to be care- fully avoided. The musculo-spiral nerve itself lies nearer the radius, rendering it advisable to pass the aneurismal needle from that side. In the middle third of the fore-arm, the inner edge of the supinator radii longus marks the line of the incision, which should be to the extent of three inches. The fascia being divided, the supinator longus is to be separated from the flexor carpi radialis, and on the division of the deep fascia, the artery will be found passing with its venae comites over the insertion of. the pronator radii teres, and the radial origin of the flexor digitorum sublimis. The musculo-spiral nerve lies close to the radial side of the artery. Near the wrist, the radial artery may be tied with great facility. Make an incision two inches and a half long on the radial side of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, which becomes prominent on bending the wrist; the superficial and