212 Important Precept, not to seat of injury. There is, then, not only a great and essential difference between these two kinds of aneurism as regards their nature, but also with respect to the collateral circula- tion, and the operation to be performed for their cure; and the surgeon may not overlook these facts. A school-boy, about fourteen years of age, let a penknife drop from his hand while sitting down, and drew his knees suddenly towards each other to catch the falling knife; the point was thus forced into the inner and middle part of the thigh, and wounded the femoral artery. The medical man on the spot put a plaster on the little incision in the integuments, and the wound quickly healed. The boy complained cf un- easiness, but was supposed to be making more of it than necessary, and was made to go into school as usual. The limb, however, began to swell, and the boy was brought to London, supposed to be suffering from abscess, and placed under the care of Mr. Keate, who, suspecting the evil, carefully intro- duced the point of a lancet, and after a clot of blood had been forced out, a jet of arterial blood flew across the room. The hemorrhage was arrested by pressure below Poupart's liga- ment.whilst Mr. Keate enlarged the opening in the integuments, and removed two washhand-basins-full of coagulated blood. He then put his finger on a large opening in the artery, under which two ligatures were passed by means of an eye-probe, and the artery was divided between them. The muscles had been cleanly dissected, and the cavity extended from the fork internally, and trochanter externally, to the knee. There was much less suppuration than could have been expected. The ligatures were detached about the usual time, and the patient entirely recovered. 193. There is no precept more important than that which directs that no operation should be done on a wounded artery unless it bleeds.inasmuch as hemorrhage once arrested may not be renewed, in which case any operation must be unnecessary. The following case shows how firmly the principles on which wounded arteries ought to be treated, were fixed in my mind in the year 1812; and there is no case to which I look back with more satisfaction, during that eventful period, than the following.