31 Examination of a Wound. sponding openings evidently belonging to one shot; but it is imperiously demanded of the surgeon, where there is one opening only, even if that be so much lacerated as to lead to the suspicion of its being a rent from a piece of a shell; for it is by no means uncommon for such missiles, or a grape-shot, to lodge wholly unknown to the patient, and to be discovered by the surgeon at a subsequent period, when much time has been lost and misery endured. A soldier during the siege of Badajoz had the misfortune to be near a shell at the moment of its bursting, and was so much mangled as to render it necessary to remove one leg, an arm, and a testicle (a part of the penis and scrotum being lost). In one of the flesh- wounds in the back part of the thigh and buttock a large piece of shell was lodged, and kept up considerable irritation until it was removed. The man recovered. 18. In examining a wound, a finger should be gently intro- duced in the course of the ball, to its utmost extent, and in parts connected with life, or liable to be seriously injured, it is the only sound usually admissible. "Whilst this examination is taking place, the hand of the surgeon should be carefully pressed upon the part opposite where the ball may be ex- pected to lie, by which it may perhaps be brought within reach of the finger, and for want of which precaution, it may be missed by a very trifling distance. Whilst the finger is in the wound the limb may be thrown as nearly as possible into that action which was about to be performed on the receipt of the injury, when the contraction of the muscles and the relative change of the parts, will more readily allow the course of the ball to be followed. If this should fail, atten- tion should be paid to the various actions of the limb, the attendant symptoms arising from parts affected, and what may be called the general anatomy of the whole circle of injury. A muscle, in the act of contraction, may oppose an obstacle to the passage of an instrument in the direction the ball has taken, and especially if it should have passed between tendons or surfaces loosely connected by cellular membrane; as by the side of or between the great bloodvessels, which by their elasticity may make way for the ball, and yet impede the progress of a sound. When the ball is ascertained to