Case of Sir Colin Halkttt, G.C.B. 500 and weeps, which is a rare occurrence, it will be best treated by actual or potential cauterization, if moderate pressure should fail. When these wounds are of some extent, they are often followed by partial paralysis, in consequence of the seventh pair of nerves being injured, when the mouth is drawn somewhat to the other side. When the lachrymal bones or sac are injured by balls or swords, the tears usually continue through life to run over, and give inconvenience, although much good may be done by early attention to the injuries of this part. Wounds injuring the upper jaw are oftentimes followed by much suifering, and by permanent incon- venience. Gen. Sir Colin Halkett, G.C.B., was wounded on the 18th June, at Waterloo, when in front of his brigade, formed in squares, for the reception of the French cavalry, by a pistol- ball, fired by the officer commanding them, which struck him in the neck, and gave him great pain, but without doing much mischief. A second shot shortly afterwards wounded him in the thigh; and he was obliged to leave the field, towards the close of the day, by a third musket-ball, which struck him on the face, when standing sideways towards the enemy. It entered a little below the outer part of the cheek-bone, on the left side, and taking an oblique direction downwards and forwards, shattered and destroyed in its course several of the double teeth of the upper jaw, fracturing the palate from its posterior part, forwards to the front teeth. The ball then took a direction obliquely upwards, destroying the teeth of the opposite side of the upper jaw, which bone it also broke, and lodged under the fleshy part of the cheek. These wounds gave great pain, and until the ball was removed, the left ear was totally insensible to sound and all external impressions, although the General suffered much from distressing noises in his ear. These subsided on the removal of the ball some days afterwards. The treatment of this wound was however most painful; the extraction of several pieces of bone was necessary at different times, during the three following years, before the wounds were finally closed. Considerable derangement of health followed, the deafness remains; and the General has