Cases by AI. Baudens. 469 information derived from the practice of the French surgeons in Algeria is valuable. M. Baudens, whose labours I refer to with great pleasure, says that he has also seen splinters of bone and even a ball, surrounded by a cyst formed by the pseudo-membranes of inflammation, cut off from the general cavity, and confined in the angular space formed behind between the rib, the dia- phragm, and the spine. In one case, M. Baudens introduced a sonde a dard, such as is used in the high operation for the stone, between the second and third ribs, and made it project behind between the eleventh and twelfth ribs. He then cut down upon it, and extracted a ball and some splinters of the rib. The wound thus made was then closed, the upper one being sucked dry daily by a pump. The patient recovered in forty days. A > 54th Regiment, was brought to the hospital at Algiers, on the 22nd of October, 1833, wounded eleven days before by a ball, which, having broken the right clavicle, was lost in the chest, without any sign of effusion having taken place; he appeared to be going on well, until suddenly he complained of pain about the middle of the sixth rib, which could not be removed by the means employed, and was accompanied by a great discharge from the wound. On the 10th of November he died. The clavicle and the first rib had been fractured, and an abscess had formed behind them, the size of a hen's egg, containing several splinters of bone, which had stuck in and afterwards separated from the lung. The ball had passed from above downwards and outwards, forming a sinus, which terminated at the middle of the sixth rib, to which this part of the lung was attached; the posterior three- fourths of this canal were closed; the anterior fourth contained two splinters of bone, one of which was about to fall into the abscess m front. The sixth rib was broken, although it had not been perceived during life; and a small digital cavity was formed at this part in it by the ball, surrounded by portions of lymph, floating loosely from its edges; from this the ball had been detached, and had given rise to the inflammation which destroyed him. The ball bad fallen on the diaphragm, where it was lying loose, surrounded by a quantity of purulent matter. 8