318 Trephine not to be applied in such Cases. The vigorous aud decided abstractions of blood saved the man, and, with the mercury, in all probability prevented the occurrence of those evils which our predecessors sought to obviate by removing a portion of bone. They believed the bone could not be fractured without an extravasation taking place beneath; and some took credit to themselves for placing wedges between the broken edges, in order to allow the escape of the blood or of the matter which might be formed below it. That blood may be effused, and matter may be formed, is indisputable, even under the most active treatment; but that an operation by the trephine will anticipate and prevent these evils, cannot be conceded in the present state of our know- ledge; and the rule of practice is at present decided, that no such operation should be done until symptoms supervene dis- tinctly announcing that compression or irritation of the brain has taken place. It is argued that when these symptoms do occur, it will be too late to have recourse to the operation with success; this may be true, as such cases must always be very dangerous; but it does not follow, and it has never been, nor indeed can it be shown, that the same mischief would not have taken place, if the operation had been performed early. 258. When a simple fracture, which in its slightest form is called a capillary fissure, takes place, the dura mater must be separated from it at that part, to a certain extent, and some small vessels must be torn through. It does not follow, how- ever, that blood must necessarily be poured out in such a quantity that it will not be absorbed. Dissection has, on the contrary, established the fact, that it will be absorbed even in cases of fracture of greater extent, where it has been seen that a larger quantity has been extravasated. As the effusion of a larger, or of so large a quantity of blood as to prove eventually mischievous, does not usually take place, except under other circumstances than those of a simple fracture, the ordinary practice ought not to be to seek for that which is not likely to be found. The dura mater is rarely separated beyond the limits of the fracture, and it is more likely to recover without any further exposure or interference than with it. The dura mater, however, may be separated to a considerable extent from the bone in more severe injuries, and