Opinions of Delpech and Tice. 158 posed to wet, and to undergo considerable fatigue, and imme- diately afterwards to travel to a considerable distance. The inflammation, however, gradually subsided, but the stinging, accompanied by a burning sensation, still continued, and the sore had no disposition to heal; yet it did not enlarge ex- ternally, but was disposed to burrow under the integuments. This phagedsenic disposition was ultimately got the better of by laying open the sore, and by repeated applications of caustic; but it was two months before a complete cicatrix had formed. The new cuticle remained for a length of time extremely sensitive to the touch; and it was upwards of six months before it had acquired the colour of the surrounding integuments." 166. M. Delpech was disposed to consider that the mis- fortunes and sufferings of the French army had a great de- pressing influence on the soldiers, from which at other times they would have been exempted, and which aided the propa- gation of this malady; but many soldiers of the British army, free from these particular depressing causes, suffered in a similar manner. Dr. Tice, at Coimbra, says, "An uncommon depressing affection of the mind often exists among persons suffering from this disease, painful to witness—a morbid dejection, or apathy, which could scarcely be removed, and in very bad cases, on which no impression could be made. In others, the humane solicitations of the medical officers have failed against the influence of oppressive gloom, amounting to despair. Expectation and hope seemed to be exiled from their minds by the dominion of painful despondency, which, prevailing in melancholy disorder, seemed uncontrolled or checked by the intrusive importunities of the present, or the consciousness of a future existence." A wound, attacked by hospital gangrene, in its most con- centrated and active form, presents a horrible aspect after the first forty-eight hours. The whole surface has become of a dark red colour, of a ragged appearance, with blood partly coagulated, and apparently half putrid, adhering at every point. The edges are everted, the cuticle separating from half to three-quarters of an inch around, with a concentric circle of inflammation extending an inch or two beyond it;