385 Expectoration in Pneumonia. pneumonia, rarely recurring by paroxysms, and is without any particular indication; it is soon, however, accompanied with a slight mucous expectoration, which, after some twenty-four or forty-eight hours, begins to assume certain and peculiar chai-acters of the utmost importance, as indicating the existence and the different stages of the disease. On the second or third day the expectoration becomes bloody. Each sputum, spit, or cracliat is composed of mucus inti- mately combined with blood; that is, not simple streaks or strife of blood, as in catarrh; nor is it pure blood, as in haemoptysis. Eachsputum is either of a yellow, or rusty, or even red colour, according to the quantity of blood intimately mixed with the mucus. These sputa are at the same time tenacious and viscous, adhering so intimately together as to form a homogeneous transparent whole, readily gliding, how- ever, from the basin in which they are held, on sufficient in- clination being given to it. At this period or stage of the disease the sputa adhere strongly to each other, but the mass is not sufficiently viscid to stick to the sides of the vessel. When no further change takes place in the sputa, the inflam- mation rarely passes beyond the first stage of obstruction or engorgement, or swelling. When they attain to a more viscous state, and adhere to the inside of the vessel in which they have been received, the progress of the inflammation to the second stage, or that of hepatization, may be feared. In almost every case where the viscidity of the expectorated matter increases, respiration becomes null or bronchial; per- cussion of the chest yields a duller sound than before, and the inflammation has attained its highest degree. The expecto- ration, after being some time stationary, changes its cha- racter. If the complaint is to terminate by resolution, or by death, or to pass into a chronic state, the redness and viscidity gradually diminish, and at last disappear. If the rust-colour and the viscidity should return, there has been a relapse.which the reappearance of the other symptoms show. When the inflammation is of the most serious nature, and about to terminate fatally, the expectoration diminishes, and at last ceases. In some cases it only diminishes because it cannot be discharged; it accumulates in the trachea, in the