4 Services professionally administrative and practically scientific. they have not been able steadily to attend or to continue; and the result has been, that men of the highest character and professional attainments, from whom the public and the pro- fession had a right to expect much, have done less for the ad- vancement of science than could have been desired. There is one most able statistical paper in the sixth volume of the Transactions of the Medical and Chirurgical Society for 1819, by Sir James M'Grigor, which every medical officer should read when going on service, and which also refers to the opinions and practice of several of the physicians and surgeons who served under him during 1812 and 1813; but even they are of less practical value than might have been pre-supposed from the many very extensive opportunities afforded; neither have any records of the medical arrangements of the war, of any importance, been published, by which the errors of the first part, from 1808 to 1812, may be in future avoided,nor any from which the more successful results of 1813, and part of 1814, may be imitated. It may be asked whether it is now too late, whether it can yet be done. The answer should be, Yes; but to the questions, Who can do it? Who will? Echo alone I fear will answer, Who? I may perhaps add, without impropriety, that I have printed as the seventh of my miscellaneous Lectures, a Report made on the diseases to which the troops of the 4 th division of infantry were subjected in 1811, in Portugal and Spain, which on many points will interest not only future doctors, but even higher authorities who may be solicitous for the welfare of the soldier. It has been otherwise with the surgery of that army. The principles and the practice which prevailed at the commence- ment of the war, have been superseded on almost all important points; and, to use the words of my old and lamented friend, Sir Astley Cooper, the art of surgery, so valuable, so important in the eyes of humanity, received from the practical experi- ence thus acquired, an impulse unknown to it before. The exact nature of that impulse, and the period at which each improvement of importance took place, it will be one of the objects of the present lectures to explain, and for the first time especially to record. The seven-years' war of the last century, as it is usually