Ligature of the Internal Carotid. 247 in. the mouth and pharynx; nearly the whole of the parotid gland, with the temporal, masseter, and pharyngeal muscles, were destroyed. The neighbouring bones were shattered, and the tongue injured. The haemorrhage was not copious, although the external carotid aud its branches were divided. Ten days after the accident, the sloughs had all separated, and left a large circular aperture, of from two to three inches in diameter, at the bottom of which might be seen distinctly the internal carotid artery, denuded from near the bifurcation of the common trunk to where it forms a turn to enter the canal in the temporal bone. Directly on this part there was a dark speck, of a line or two in diameter, which suddenly gave way whilst Dr. Twitchell was in the house. With the thumb of his left hand he compressed the artery against the base of the skull, and effectually controlled the haemorrhage. The patient fainted. As soon as he recovered, the doctor says—" I proceeded to clear the wound from blood, and having done this I made an incision with a scalpel downwards, along the course of the artery, to more than an inch below the point where the external branch was given off, which, as stated above, had been destroyed at the time of the injury. Having but one hand at liberty, I depended upon the mother of the patient to separate the sides of the wound, which she did, partly with a hook, and occasionally with her fingers. At length, partly by careful dissection, and partly by using my fingers and the handle of the scalpel, I succeeded in separating the artery from its attachments; and passing my finger under it, I raised it up sufficiently for my assistant to pass a ligature round it. She tied it with a surgeon's knot, as I directed, about half an inch below the bifurcation." Dr. Twitchell re- moved his thumb, and sponged away the blood, not doubting that the haemorrhage was effectually controlled; but, to his sur- prise and disappointment, the blood immediately began to oo2e from the rupture in the artery, and in less than ten minutes it flowed with a pulsating jet. He compressed it again with his thumb, and began to despair of saving his patient, but resolved to make another attempt. Raising his thumb, he placed a small piece of dry sponge directly over the orifice in the artery, and renewed the compression till a rather larger