274 Ligature of the Internal Carotid; When any of the branches of the external carotid has been wounded, it ought to be tied by a similar operation at both ends, at the part wounded. If the surgeon cannot do this, and the haemorrhage demands it, the trunk of the external carotid is the vessel on which the ligature should be placed, but not that of the common carotid. 232. The internal carotid artery, when wounded near the bifurcation of the common carotid, is to be secured by two ligatures, and the steps in the operation are the same as those for exposing the external carotid, the surgeon recollecting that the internal carotid is more deeply seated and to the outside of the external. A ligature may be placed on the internal or ex- ternal carotid, close to the bifurcation, with safety; but if the wound of either vessel should encroach on the bifurcation, one ligature should be applied on the common trunk and another above the part wounded; but as neither of these would con- trol the collateral circulation through the uninjured, vessel, whichever of the two it might be, a third ligature should be placed on it above the bifurcation. When the internal carotid is wounded through the mouth, at the upper part of the neck, it should be secured by the ope- ration, described page 248, Aph. 216. 233- The arteria innominata arises from the upper part of the arch of the aorta, generally on a line nearly parallel with the upper edge of the cartilage of the second rib, ascends obliquely towards the right side,- and usually divides opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation into the right subclavian and the right carotid arteries; the last of which appears to be its continuation, although the smaller in size. The arteria innominata is about two inches in length, rarely ex- ceeding two inches and a half, although it is very variable both in length and situation, so much so as sometimes to render the operation of placing a ligature upon it during life impracticable. It is covered by the right vena innominata, which receives the left at a right angle, near the origin of the artery. Exterior to the vena inno- minata are the sterno-tlvyroideus and sterno-hyoideus muscles, some strong fascia covering the vein at its upper part, and the first bone of the sternum. The arteria innominata may ascend