Ligature of the Brachial Artery. 281 ing on the triceps, and slightly overlapped by the coraco- brachialis and biceps muscles. In the middle of the arm it rests on the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, is close to the bone, and lies under the lower edge of the biceps; in which situation it may always be compressed by bending the fore-arm, so as to cause the belly of the biceps to enlarge, when pressure made immediately below it will arrest the circulation in the brachial artery. . It then crosses towards the anterior part of the arm, and rests on the brachialis anticus muscle until it passes the bend of the elbow. It is accompanied by two veins, which are connected to it by a loose cellular membrane forming a sheath. The external cutaneous and median nerves lie a little to the outside of the artery at the upper third of the arm. In the middle third the median nerve lies generally in front of, but some- times between the artery and the bone, and is on the inside at the inferior part. The internal cutaneous nerve runs parallel with but superficial to the artery, the ulnar nerve nearer but posterior to it. When a ligature is to be placed on the brachial artery in the upper part of its course, the incision should be made about three inches in length, and directly on the line of the pulsating vessel, by which all mistakes will be avoided. The integuments should be divided carefully, that the internal cutaneous nerve may not be injured; the fascia is then to be cut through and the fore-arm bent, when the vessels and nerves will be relaxed. The artery is to be separated from its veins, one on each side; and it must be recollected that the external cutaneous and median nerves are to the radial side of the artery, the internal cutaneous and the ulnar nerves to the ulnar side of it. In the middle of the arm the median nerve lies immediately over the artery, except in cases where it passes behind it, and when it lies in front it may be mistaken for the artery, from the pulsation being communicated to it. The incision should be to the same ex- tent of three inches, directly in the course of the artery, and the ligature should be passed from the ulnar to the radial side of the vessel, in order to avoid the possibility of including either the internal cutaneous or the ulnar nerve, and for tho purpose of excluding both the veins. B B 2