217 Case of Captain Seton. laying it open, and seeing the hole in the artery, or its divided extremities. Captain Seton, a short man, fat of his age, was wounded in a duel, in 1845, in the upper part of the right thigh, a little above and in front of the great trochanter, the wound being continued across the thigh, its internal opening being about the middle of the fold of the left or opposite groin. He lost a good deal of blood at the time, the issue of which ceased on his fainting. Ten days after the accident his countenance was blanched, his pulse rather quick and feeble. On examin- ing the wounds, tbat on the right hip (the opening of entrance) was circular, filled with a dry, depressed slough, and there was a narrow, faint blush of redness round its margin. In the left groin the opening of exit was marked by a jagged slit, already partly closed by a thin cicatrix. There was extensive mottled purple discoloration (ecchymosis) of the skin in both groins, and over the pubes, scrotum, and upper part of the right thigh. In the right groin was found a large, oval, visibly pulsating tumour, its long diameter extending transversely from about an inch and a half on the inner side of the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to about opposite the linea alba, and its lower margin projecting slightly over Poupart's liga- ment into the upper and inner part of the thigh. On handling this tumour, it appeared elastic, but firm, very slightly tender, and not capable of any perceptible diminution in bulk by gradual and continued pressure. The pulsation was distinct at all parts of the swelling, and was equally evident whether the fingers are pressed directly backwards, or whether they were placed at its upper and lower margins, and pressed to- wards the base of the tumour, in a direction transversely to its long axis, the parts being for the time relaxed. The femoral artery was slightly covered by the swelling,and the pulsations of that vessel were with some difficulty distinguished in the upper third of the thigh, below the margin of the tumour. This appeared to depend partly on the natural obesity of the patient, and partly on a considerable degree of general swelling of this thigh. Pressure on the femoral artery or over the ab- dominal aorta did not arrest the pulsation in the tumour, and in the former situation was attended with severe pain. Under u