Opposing Hieory as to Wounded Arteries. 187 the artery below the wound, and must, as a general ride, pass up and out through the lower end of the divided artery, unless pre- vented by the application of a ligature, or by some accidental cir- cumstance, forming an exception to the rule, but not the rule itself. 8th. That the collateral branches are capable of bringing blood into the artery above the aneurismal sac and between it" and the ligature, is admitted in the Hunterian theory, which blood the aneurismal sac receives, and usually retains. When the artery is a wounded artery, and the ligature is applied at a distance above the wound, blood is often brought into it below the ligature in a similar manner, but as there is no aneurismal sac to receive and retain it, the patient bleeds perhaps to death, unless surgery come to his assistance. 9th. The presence of an aneurismal sac in one case, and its absence in the other, is the essential difference destructive of the Hunterian theory for the treatment of aneurism being applicable to that of wounded arteries. 10th. The processes for the natural suppression of haemor- rhage are different in the upper and lower ends of an artery, and are less capable of resistance in the lower end. This end frequently yields to the pressure of the blood regurgitating from below, and renews a bleeding which may have been sup- pressed for weeks, unless its closure has been rendered more permanent by the application of a ligature. 11th. The absence of the aneurismal sac renders the applica- tion of two ligatures absolutely necessary, one on each end of a divided artery, or one above and one below the wound if the artery should not be divided; constituting the most essential feature of my theory, and the principal point to be attended to in the treatment of wounded arteries. 12th. This bleeding from the lower end of the vessel, which is more or less of a venous colour, and issues in a continuous stream, may be restrained by compression properly made on the course of the lower part of the wounded artery; but in no instance should recourse be had to a ligature on a distant part of the artery above the seat of injury, until every other possible effort to arrest the haemorrhage from the lower end of the artery has failed.