398 Calomel; Antimony; Opium. place entire confidence on its efficacy in all. It is of most value when combined with opium. Some suppose that the opium merely prevents the irregular action of the mercury; others, as far back as 1801, believed that the opium has a distinct curative effect, being capable, when given in large doses, of subduing inflammation, and more particularly of allaying pain, relieving the cough and irritation, and of pro- curing sleep; in that opinion I fully concur. Opium is highly advantageous in irritable and nervous persons, and will fre- quently relieve the nervous pain—the pleurodynia which re- mains after pleuritis, when nothing else succeeds. Calomel in large doses is usually preferred to all other forms, but a difference of opinion has occurred as to what is a large dose, whether two, three, four, six, ten, or twelve grains are large doses, and whether they shall be given every one, two, three, six, or twelve hours. It has been attempted to solve this question by supposing that in highly inflammatory cases in healthy persons, from three to six and even to twelve grains may be given twice or three times a day, with better effect than smaller ones more frequently repeated. In cases less inflammatory or complicated with gastric de- rangement, the disease assuming more of a general than of a local character, the excretions being vitiated, the skin dry and hot, and the tongue loaded, from gr. iss. to grs. iij. of calomel, combined with three grains of Dover's powder, may be advantageously given every second or third hour, the great object being to affect the gums as quickly as possible. This is not effected in some cases by any of the quantities given until after a considerable lapse of time, whilst in others it is accomplished by less than half-a-dozen grains of the remedy. It has not been ascertained that twenty-four or forty grains given in two or four doses in twenty-four hours will affect the mouth more rapidly than three grains every two hours for the same time, neither is it less liable to cause irritation; whilst the third or half-a-grain of opium given every two hours seems to keep up the effect of that remedy with great advan- tage. It does not materially signify which method is adopted in strong and healthy persons, although the smaller doses are most satisfactory to all parties when the patient is weak and