A Wound of the Diaphragm never closes. 481 were in a high state of inflammation. On tracing the duodenum upwards, a very small portion of the stomach was found in its natural situation; whilst, on opening the thorax, a large spheri- cal tumour was seen in its left cavity, containing two quarts or upwards of black, fluid, fetid blood. This sac was soon seen to be the stomach, which had protruded through the aperture iu the diaphragm, by which it was so firmly embraced as to render the communication between the portion of the stomach in the thorax and that in the abdomen impervious to each other. The hernial sac and its contents were supported by the diaphragm. The left lung exhibited a shrivelled, con- tracted appearance, as if its function had been impeded by the pressure of the sac and its contained fluid. The cicatrix and the course of the sword were well marked. The cardiac and pyloric orifices of the stomach were in the natural cavity. S. Fletcher, 31st Regiment, wounded at Sobraon, on the 10th February, 1846; died at Chatham, February, 1847. On opening the thorax, the greater part of the stomach, and a foot and a half of the transverse arch of the colon, with the omentum attached, were found in the left pleural cavity. There was an opening in the diaphragm, with a rounded margin, two inches and a half in diameter, two inches to the left of the oesophagus. The stomach, colon, and omentum adhered firmly, at one part, to the pleura covering the diaphragm and lining the ribs, to the extent of a few inches although otherwise loose and free in the cavity. The parts' in the aperture of the diaphragm were free from adhesions and the finger passed easily through the opening from below upwards. Two cicatrices were to be seen on the left side of the chest—one between the eleventh and twelfth ribs, close to the transverse processes of the vertebra; the other between the eighth and ninth ribs, three inches and a half from the cartilages. The preparation is in the museum at Chatham. 352. These cases confirm the fact I was the first to point out —that wounds of the diaphragm, whether in the muscular or the tendinous part, never unite, but remain with their edges separated, ready for the transmission between them of any o the loose viscera of the abdomen which may receive an im- pulse in that direction. That parts of these viscera do pass T T