523 Illustrative Gases. teuse and slightly painful, although he was not in constant pain, the blood drawn before being buffy, twenty-two ounces more were taken away, a purgative enema administered, and, as the bowel was not believed to be injured, four grains of calomel and six of the compound extract of colo- cynth were given, with a draught of senna and salts every four hours.—3rd. The bowels open; no pain and scarcely any uneasiness on pressure; abdomen soft. No food; barley-water and gruel; pulse 84.—On the 6th the sutures were removed, the wound having united. He was then made an out-patient, having a comfortable home. A soldier of the 2nd division of infantry received several stabs from a lance, in different parts of the body, at the battle of Albuhera, as the lancers rode past him, whilst lying on the ground, one only being of any importance; it was on the right side and lower part of the belly, and through it a portion of omentum protruded. On this being reduced, the epigastric artery, which had been divided, bled freely; a liga- ture was readily applied, and the wound closed by the con- tinuous suture. The patient, after undergoing a very rigorous treatment, recovered. A Spanish soldier was wounded in a scuffle in Madrid, in 1812, at the gate of the British Hospital, near the Prado, into which he was brought, with a wound in the right side of the abdomen, near and below the umbilicus, through which a portion of omentum protruded, to the size of a small orange. As this could not readily be returned, I carefully enlarged the wound, some three or four hours afterwards, at its under part, by dividing the skin; and then found that it was the aponeurotic or tendinous expansion of the muscles, going to form the sheath of the rectus, which prevented the return of the omentum into the belly; on the division of this part it slipped back without difficulty, but as it did not recede further than the peritoneum I left it there, and closed the wound, which was about an inch long, by sewing it up in the manner described. He was bled and starved, and was delivered up to the proper authorities out of danger and with his wound nearly healed, when the army evacuated the place. A Spanish soldier was wounded at the battle of Toulouse by i