not injurious in Healthy Persons. 409 existed in the pleura, as it indicates that air in a healthy serous membrane does not excite inflammation;"—a Penin- sular dogma I have been thirty-seven years inculcating, and which I trust is at last admitted as an established fact; how long it may be before it is generally taught is another matter; for surgeons, like other men, often adhere with tenacity to preconceived opinions, particularly as they advance in life. 319. In all cases of serous effusion there can be little doubt that the fluid should be wholly evacuated, and the wound closed. When the fluid is purulent, a permanent drain should be early established. It is not, however, common for the operation to be repeated several times, without the serous discharge becoming purulent; and in such cases it usually becomes necessary at last to allow the wound to remain open until the discharge shall cease of itself. Whenever more than one opening is necessary, and the first is made between the fifth and sixth ribs, the succeeding ones should be made lower down; so that when it is thought right to leave the last puncture to become fistulous, it may be made as near the diaphragm as may be thought consistent with the safety of that part. When a doubt exists as to the probability of more than one puncture being sufficient, and it seems likely that a third or even more, will be required, the surgeon may anticipate this necessity by introducing a piece of soft gum-elastic catheter through the canula into the chest, to the extent of about three inches, enough being left outside to admit of its being secured by tapes and adhesive plaster, through which a certain quantity of the fluid may be drawn off daily, until it ceases to be discharged. The elastic tube bends with the heat, and applies itself to the inside of the ribs. If the lung should rub against it, which can be ascertained by a blunt probe, it should be removed, and the external wound kept open by a shorter and softer plug. Ia all these" operations, care should be taken to prevent the occurrence of inflamma- tion. The accession of pain in the part, of difficulty of breathing, of fever, should be met by cupping to a few ounces, by dry-cupping, by mercury in small doses, by rest, N N