30 Effects of Constitution. immediate track of the ball, spreads widely. The wound itself can hardly be borne to be touched; it discharges but little, and the sloughs separate slowly; pus soon begins to be secreted more copiously, not only in the track of the wound, but in the surrounding parts; sinuses may form in the course of the muscles, or under the fascia, and considerable surgical treat- ment be necessary, whilst the cure is protracted from three to four, and even six months; and is often attended for a longer period with lameness, from contraction of the muscles or adhesions of the areolar tissue. The parts, from having been so long in a state of inflammation, are much weaker, and if the injury have been in the lower extremity, the leg and foot swell on any exertion, which cannot be performed without pain and inconvenience for a considerable time. The treat- ment should be active; the patient ought to be bled, vomited, purged, kept in the recumbent position, and cold applied so long as it shall be found agreeable to his feelings; when that ceases to be the case, fomentations ought to be resorted to, but they are to be abandoned the instant the inflammation is subdued and suppuration well established. The feeling of the patient will determine the period, and it is better to begin a day too soon than one too late. If the inflammation be super- ficial, leeches will not be of the same utility as when it is deep-seated; but then they must be applied in much greater numbers than are usually recommended. The roller and graduated compresses are the best means of cure in the subsequent stages, with change of air, and friction to the whole extremity, which alone, when early and well applied, will often save months of tedious treatment. If the limb become contracted and the cellular membrane thickened, it is prin- cipally by friction (shampooing) that it can be restored to its natural motion. 17. If the ball should have penetrated without making an exit, or have carried in with it any extraneous substances, the surgeon must, if possible, ascertain its exact situation, and remove it and any foreign bodies which may be lodged;— indeed, if there be time, every wound should be examined so strictly as to enable the surgeon to satisfy himself that nothing has lodged. This is less necessary where there are two corre-