Illustrative Cases. 815 at Waterloo, by a piece of shell which struck him on the superior part of the left parietal bone. He remained insen- sible about half an hour, and on recovering from that state, was affected with nausea and some bleeding from the left ear, and found himself unable to move his right arm and right leg, which hung as if they were dead, and had lost their feeling. Admitted into the Minime General Hospital at Antwerp on the 20th; he suffered much from pain in his head, which was relieved by his being twice bled. The paralytic affection having remained without change from the moment he was wounded, a piece of the parietal bone about three-fourths of an inch long, and several smaller fragments, were extracted four days after admission into the hospital, two perforations with the trephine having been necessary. Immediately after the removal of the bone he recovered the use of his right arm and leg, so far as to be able to move them, and to be sensible of their being touched. He gradually recovered by the 14th of August, so as to be sent to the General Hospital at Yarmouth, never having had a bad symptom; the only defect remaining on the right side being an inability to grasp anything in his hand with force. The pulsation of the brain was still visible at the bottom of the wound for about the space of half the circum- ference of the head of the trephine.—September 16, 1815: the wound has filled up with healthy granulations, and has nearly cicatrized. A small sinus remains at the superior part, through which the edge of the bone can be felt. His health has been invariably good, although he has suffered a good deal of pain twice previously to the coming away of little pieces of bone, and towards evening he has been generally subject to slight vertigo. Discharged cured. William Mitchel, of the Royals, aged forty, was wounded by a musket-ball on the 18th of June, at Waterloo; it struck the side of the head near the vertex, and passing across through the sagittal suture, fractured and depressed both parietal bones. When he had recovered his senses he suffered great pain in the part, and found that he had lost the use of both his legs, and was benumbed even from the loins and lower part of the chest; he was often sick, and felt low and ill. On the 28th, ten days after the battle, the trephine was applied in two places, and the whole of the detached and