540 Illustrative Cases. 400. "When a musket-ball penetrates the cavity of the belly, it may pass across in any direction, without injuring the intestines or solid viscera. It usually does injure one or the other, and it has been known to lodge without doing much mischief. The symptoms are generally indicated by the parts injured, although in all the general depression and anxiety are remarkable; their continuance marks the extent, if not the nature of the mischief. The following cases of the survivors of hundreds who died under similar wounds, during the war beginning with the battle of Rolica, in Portugal, in August, 1808, and ending with that of Waterloo, in June, 1815, may be read with a melancholy interest, as showing what sometimes will happen in a few rare instances; and even then, as more dependent on the wantonness of nature, than on the united efforts of science and of art. A soldier of the brigade of heavy cavalry, under General Le Marchant, advancing in line to charge the French infantry at Salamanca,—on which occasion the general was killed,—was struck by a musket-ball, which entered in front, between the umbilicus and the ilium of the left side, and came out behind on the opposite side, above the right haunch-bone, thus traversin the body. The bowel protruded in front, but was uninjured, and was easily restored to its place. He remained at the field hospital with me for the first three days, and was rigorously treated, as well as afterwards in the San Domingo Hospital, where he gradually recovered, and was ultimately sent to the rear, i Lieut. Slayter Smith, of the 13th Dragoons, being engaged at Campo Mayor, on the 25th of March, 1811, was shot by a pistol-ball, which entered at the left hip, three inches and a half from the junction of the ilium with the sacrum, an inch and a half below its crest, and came out about three inches below the navel, and one inch to its right side. He felt a terrible shock, but did not faint or fall from his horse. " There was a protrusion of bowel from the wound in front, of about three inches; but little blood issued from it. The hsemorrhage from the wound in my back was very copious. A French officer, with three or four of his men, were so near