Illustrative Cases. 32j such a case is soon compressed by its own coagulum, and the effusion is comparatively trifling, giving rise, according to its nature, either to the primary symptoms of compression from extravasation, or to the secondary ones, dependent in all pro- bability on inflammation and suppuration of the part, and of irritation and compression of the brain beneath. If, on the contrary, the separation of the dura mater from the bone be extensive, the quantity of extravasated blood may be con- siderable, and the brain will be greatly depressed. Expe- rience has demonstrated that persons have recovered after large coagula have been removed; but in all these cases the brain had not lost its resiliency, and was seen to regain its natural level on the removal of the depressing cause, the person often opening his eyes, and recognising and speaking to those about him; but this does not take place when the brain remains depressed after the blood has been removed. A French artillery driver was knocked off his horse by a musket-ball, which struck him on the anterior and inferior portion of the right parietal bone, during a charge made by General Brennier at the battle of Vimiera on the British infantry under the command of the late Sir Bonald Fergusson. I took him under my care, thinking from his freedom from bad symptoms, and the slightness of the fracture, that he would probably do well. The next morning I found him apparently dying. A portion of bone being removed, a thick coagulum of blood appeared underneath, apparently extending in every direction. Three more pieces of bone were taken away, and the coagulum, which appeared to be an inch in thickness, was removed with difficulty with the help of a feather. The brain did not, however, regain its level, and the man shortly after died. The middle meningeal artery was torn across on the outside of the dura mater; the wound did not pass through to the inside, and there was no blood beneath the dura mater. The convolutions of the brain were depressed and flattened by the pressure. A soldier of the 29th regiment was struck on the right parietal bone in a similar manner, shortly after daylight, at the battle of Talavera, during the first attack on the hill the key of the British position. He walked to me soon afterwards