430 Incised Wounds of greater extent. be accused of misstating what is so simple, although they are liable to be charged with misapprehension. 327. Incised wounds of even greater extent ought not to be examined by probe or finger; no disturbance of any kind should be permitted, unless the cartilage or bone be injured. The external parts should be brought together as closely as possible, so as to facilitate in every way their union, and the processes which it is desirable should go on within. The ex- ternal parts or skin and cellular membrane, cannot be kept in perfect and continued apposition without sutures; and the proper method of proceeding is to sew up the wound in the skin with a needle and fine silken thread, in a continuous manner, including absolutely nothing but so much of the cut edges as will retain the thread; a small piece of gold-beater's skin, or lint, should then be laid over the stitches, and re- tained by a compress and adhesive plaster. In a simple case of this kind little or nothing is effused into the cavity, or secreted from the membranes of the chest, which will interfere with the process which may have happily begun; and which it is desirable should be aided by the abso- lute quiescence of the patient, to whom no medicine should be given which may render any movement of the body necessary. It was formerly supposed that the greatest object to be attained was the prevention of inflammation; and a man was no sooner stabbed by his opponent than he was blooded and purged by his surgeon, regardless of the necessity which ex- isted for perfect rest and the presence of a certain amount of inflammation, in order to enable nature to carry on those pro- cesses which are essential for the restoration of the injured parts. This inflammation should be allowed to commence without interference, and to continue in a moderate degree, until the object shall have been effected. It should only be interrupted or subdued when it is supposed to be about to exceed that degree which experience has pointed out as likely to be useful. 328. When the most courageous persons are wounded in parts essential to life, there is more or less alarm or shock created by the injury; although it has been gravely argued that a man does not always know when he is actually shot or run