494 Wounds of the Intercostal A rtery. It may be done with ease in the three first intercostal spaces; it offers some difficulties in the fourth, is very difficult in the fifth, and is scarcely to be done lower down. An incision two inches in length is to be made near the side of the sternum from without inwards, at an angle of forty-five degrees with the axis of the body. The middle of this incision should be three or four lines distant (a quarter of an inch) from the bone, and in the centre of the intercostal space, within which the vessel is to be found. The skin, cellular substance, and the great pectoral muscle having been divided, the apo- neurosis of the external intercostal muscle, with the mus- cular fibres of the inner intercostal muscle are to be separated, and torn through with a director, until the artery and its two vense comites are laid bare, at the distance of three lines from the edge of the sternum, lying before the fibres of the trian- gularis sterni muscle, which separates these vessels from the pleura. A bent probe, or other proper instrument, can then be readily passed under the artery. The vessel can only be secured in this way when injured at the upper part of the chest; below this it must bleed into the cavity, unless there be an open wound. 363. The Intercostal Artery, although often injured, rarely gives rise to haemorrhage, so as to require a special operation for its suppression; but whenever it does so happen, the wound should be enlarged so as to show the bleeding orifice, which should be secured by one ligature if distinctly open, and by two if the vessel should only be partially divided. The vessel is sometimes so small as to be easily twisted, or its end sufficiently bruised as well as twisted, to arrest the haemorrhage. It lies between the two layers of intercostal muscles, and in the middle of the ribs it runs in a groove in the under part of each. I have had occasion to twist and bruise the end of an artery bleeding in an intercostal space, and I have tied the vessel under the edge of the rib; but I have not met with any of the great difficulties usually said to be experienced in suppressing a haemorrhage from this artery, when the wound was recent, and the parts were sound. "When the parts are unsound, and the haemorrhage is