289 Excito-motor System of Dr. M. Hall. Dr. Marshall Hall, in the comprehensive and luminous view he has taken of the nervous system, supposes that each sentient and motor nerve of the spinal marrow is further endowed with an excito-motor power for reflex action. He calls these generally excito-motor nerves, and considers them to be connected with a part of the medulla spinalis, distinct from that portion which is strictly an appendage to the brain. Incident nerves arise from the skin and certain mucous mem- branes, and convey impressions from them to the spinal marrow. Reflex nerves convey back the nervous influence excited through the medium of the incident nerves, to the voluntary muscles in which they terminate; and Dr. Marshall Hall further considers that these nerves, and the part he calls the true spinal cord, constitute the true spinal system which presides over ingestion and exclusion, retention and egestion; and consequently that its influence is exerted upon the muscles which belong to the entrances and outlets of the animal frame; or, in other words, upon the sphincters, and the muscles of deglutition and of respiration; and that the true spinal system maintains the tone of the whole muscular system. Stimulating an incident or excitor nerve of the extremities, by tickling or pricking the sole of the foot or the palm of the hand after sensation is apparently destroyed, causes a special muscular contraction or motion in the limb, if the excito-motor system be uninjured. Irritating the eyelashes induces contraction of the eyelids; and the irritation of one will sometimes cause contraction of both. Tickling the verge of the anus induces contraction of the sphincter muscle. Irritating the fauces and the root of the tongue, by pressing it down with the handle cf a spoon, induces an action of deglutition. Eespira- tion is excited by irritating or exciting the trifacial or fifth pair of nerves, by throwing cold water on the face, and stimu- lating the nostrils; by influencing the spinal nerves by a similar use of cold water to the body and chest, and by tickling or stimulating the sides, soles of the feet, and verge of the anus. The great object or value of these facts and physiological experiments, is to enable us to conclude, as far as possible, what part, what great division of the brain or spinal marrow o o