Mode of arresting Haemorrhage in large Arteries. 233 tion for amputation at the shoulder, and the surgeon take it between his finger and thumb, he will find that the slightest possible pressure will be sufficient to stop the current of blood through it. Retaining the same degree of pressure on the vessel, he may cut it across below his finger and thumb, and not one drop of blood will flow. If the artery is fairly divided by the last incision which separates the arm from the body, without any pressure being made upon it, it will propel its blood with a force which is more apparent than real. All that is required to suppress this usually alarming gush of blood, is to place the end of the forefinger directly against the orifice of the artery, and with the least possible degree of pressure consistent with keeping it steadily in one position, the haemorrhage will be suppressed. It is more important to know, that if the orifice of the artery, from a natural curve in the vessel, or from other accidental causes, happens at the same time to retract and to turn its open orifice a little to one side, so as to place it in close contact with the side or end of a muscle, the very support of contact will sometimes be suffi- ciently auxiliary to prevent its bleeding. In amputation of the hip-joint, the femoral and profunda arteries are frequently divided at, or just below the origin of the latter, and bleed furiously if disregarded; but the slightest compression between the finger and thumb stops both at once. They never have given me the smallest concern in these operations, or others of a similar nature; and surgeons should learn to hold all arteries that can be taken between the finger and thumb in great contempt. It is quite impossible for a man to be a good surgeon—to do his patient justice in great and difficult operations attended by haemorrhage, unless he has this feeling—unless his mind is fully satisfied of the truth of these observations. Whilst his attention ought to be directed to other important circumstances, it is perhaps ab- sorbed by the dread of bleeding, by the idle fear that he will not be able to compress the artery and restrain the bleeding from it—that he may have half a dozen vessels bleeding at once—that his patient will die on the table before him. Once fairly in dismay, and the patient is really in danger; but, en- dowed with that confidence which is only to be acquired x 2