Size of a Ligature. 203 he has estimated the necessary force much too highly, and that he is in more danger of breaking his ligature than of failing to secure the artery. Haemorrhage has, however, been known to occur from the ligature having slipped off the end of an artery, which had been divided in the operation for aneurism, although I have never seen it happen after ampu- tation, where the vessels were tied with a small, firm ligature. It constitutes a valid objection to the division of the artery between the ligatures, when two are applied. A ligature composed of one strong thread of dentist's silk, well waxed, is sufficiently firm for the largest artery. It does not, however, much signify what may be the shape, size, form, or substance of ligatures, when they are applied to arteries in a sound state, provided they are not too large, are fairly and separately tied, and with a sufficient degree of force to retain the ligature in its situation until separated by the usual pro- cesses of nature, which generally take from fourteen to thirty days for their completion. 188. When arteries are unhealthy, the selection and proper application of a ligature are points of great importance. A small, round ligature should be fairly, evenly, and firmly although not too forcibly applied, without the intervention of any substance whatever between it and the cellular covering of the artery. The secondary haemorrhages which are re- corded by different writers, took place, I am disposed to believe, more from the application of improper ligatures than from any other cause; for the inner coat of an artery is so prone to take on the adhesive state of inflammation, that if a strong, small ligature be applied in the manner directed, it is more than probable that the closure of the artery will be effected. Ulceration will, however, sometimes take place on the inner coat of the vessel, and slowly extend outwards, undoing in its progress any steps which may have been begun for the consolidation of the extremity of the artery. When a secondary haemorrhage does occur from this or any other cause, it is usually from the beginning of the second to the fourth week; but there is no security for the patient until after the ligature has come away, unless it is retained an inordinate length of time, from having included some sub-