■ Fissure or Simple Fracture of the Skull. 317 these principles should be carried out, by endeavouring to procure the union of the divided parts, as was generally done during the war in all such injuries from sabre-cuts as did not quite penetrate the skull,—a practice that was found to be emi- nently successful, even when union did not take place. The general treatment should be similar to that insisted on in con- cussion, of which the following may perhaps be considered a sufficient example. A soldier, partly in liquor, received a blow from a spade in Lisbon, which cut the upper part of the head across the sagittal suture, and rendered him senseless. He soon got better, and a slight fissure or fracture without depression was discovered. His head was shaved, kept raised, wet and cold, and the divided parts brought together by sticking-plaster; he was bled to twenty-four ounces, purged, starved, and kept quiet in a dark room. Slept well, but said that his head felt painful, as if something tight was tied around it. Pulse 96 small and hard; bowels not open. Blood was taken from the arm to the amount of forty ounces, when he appeared about to faint. Calomel and jalap, followed by Infus. Sennse cum Magnes. Sulphate, were given, and acted well, and he was greatly relieved. The calomel was continued every six hours In the evening, however, the pain and tightness of the head returned, with a pulse of 110, hard and full; they were again removed by the loss of twenty-four ounces of blood. He re- mained easy until the evening of the next or the third day when the pulse quickened to 120, became small and hard, and he complained of severe pain in the head. It was evident that inflammation of the brain or of its membranes had com- menced, and that it must be subdued; he was therefore bled until he fainted, forty ounces being taken away. This entirely reheved him, and calomel, jalap, senna, and salts were again administered, with great effect. On the fourth day he was easy, the pulse 94, soft and full, the mouth being tender from the mercury. The wound did not heal by adhesion, but by granulation; and under the continuance of the starving and purging system he gradually got well without any more bad symptoms, having been saved by the loss of one hundred and twenty-eight ounces of blood in three days. e e 2