358 Sutures separated by Musket-balls. was readily removed, but several small portions of bone were raised by the elevator and forceps before the remaining por- tion of the ball could be drawn from under the bone, which was not depressed, the ball having been cut in two by its edge. The dura mater was bruised, but not torn through. The wound suppurated freely; several pieces of bone exfoli- ated, and the patient was ultimately discharged in progress towards a cure. A small ball sometimes becomes so flattened by striking against the skull as to remain undiscovered when care is not taken in the examination. A soldier was wounded at the storming of San Sebastian by a ball on the side of the head, which was supposed not to have lodged. The wound did not heal, a small opening remaining, although no exfoliation took place, and the bone did not seem to be bare. On dividing the scalp to ascertain the cause of the delay in healing, a small ball, quite flat, was found; it had sunk down a little below the hole left for the discharge to which by its irritation it had given rise. When a larger ball or a piece of a shell strikes the head, the fracture is usually extensive, and portions of bone, or a piece of the shell itself, are often lodged in the substance of the brain. There is nothing peculiar in the management of these cases, which are for the most part unfortunate. 282. A suture may be separated by a musket-ball, which impinges with a moderate degree of force directly upon it, but not without great danger. It can, however, only happen in young persons in whom the sutures are not obliterated, as they are in elderly ones, and in general it takes place when the ball happens to lodge as it were between-the bones concerned in the formation of the suture. The first case of the kind which came under my observation occurred at the taking of Oporto. I met with a second at Albuhera, a third at Sala- manca, and a fourth in a slighter degree at Orthez. A heavy dragoon was wounded at the battle of Salamanca by a musket-ball in the body, which caused him to fall from his horse, injuring the top of his head. Little attention was paid to him until mischief was suspected from the lethargic state into which he fell, which could only be attributed to the blow on the head, where a tumour was observable. This, on