Amputation of the Arm. 125 edge of the insertion of the pectoralis major and the elbow-joint; and rarely in cases of injury from musket-balls. No common flesh-wound, made either by cannon or musket-shot, even in- cluding a division of the artery, absolutely demands this operation, the bone being uninjured. If, in addition to such a destructive flesh-wound, the bone be broken, or if it be mashed with the muscles by an oblique stroke of a round shot, or the fore-arm be carried away or destroyed, it is admissible. It is to be done in the following manner:—An assistant draws up the integuments with both hands; another does the same downwards, if the parts admit of it; the fore-arm is to be moderately bent. The integuments are to be divided by a circular incision, and retracted. The muscles and vessels are then to be cut through by one sweep of the knife, if it can be done. The muscles adhering to the bone are next to be sepa- rated from it to the extent of two inches. The retractor is to be applied, and the periosteum divided by one circle of the knife around the bone, and in the circle thus cut the saw is to work until the bone is divided; attention being paid to the directions already given to saw in a perpendicular, not slanting direction. The artery or arteries are to be tied, the surface of the stump cleansed with warm and then with cold water, and dried. Sutures are useful. 121. Mr. Luke performs the operation by two flaps on the same principle as in the thigh. There is a close resemblance in the manner of amputating the arm by the double-flap operation to that adopted for the amputation of the thigh. The first flap is made posteriorly to the bone, by transfixing the limb, for which purpose the knife is entered at the mid- point between the anterior and posterior surfaces, carried transversely across the limb, and made to cut towards the posterior surface, in an oblique direction, until all the soft structures are divided. It is necessary, in entering the knife, to bear in mind that the bone lies opposite to the mid- point, and that, in carrying the knife across the limb, it would strike against the surface of the bone, unless means were adopted for its prevention. This is easily done by grasping the structures which are to form the posterior flap between m 2