Primary Amputation of the Arm. 115 104. If the head of the bone be much splintered, or if a ball have gone through it, that portion should be sawn off; for a part thus injured has often been a source of great incon- venience and suffering for many years afterwards—during, in fact, the remainder of the life of the sufferer; which misery would have been avoided by the excision of the bone in the first instance—an operation which ought in fact to be done even at a later period, if it were not performed at the time when the injury was received. 105. When the splinters extend far into the shaft of the humerus, it may be proper to amputate the whole extremity, especially if the great artery be also wounded; but the shaft is seldom broken in such accidents to any great extent, and amputation should be confined almost to injuries from cannon- shot or shells, or heavy machinery, destructive of the soft parts as well as of the bone. 106. When the injury done to the upper arm is so extensive that it cannot be saved, although the head of the humerus be not injured, the amputation should take place immediately below the tuberosities, and not. at the joint, which latter operation always renders the shoulder flatter, and the appear- ance of the person more unseemly, than when the head of the bone is left in its place. 107. It will frequently happen that the arm may be irre- coverably shattered, and the thorax partake in a less degree of the injury, there being apparent only some slight contusion or grazing of the skin; if low down, the elasticity of the false ribs may have prevented the integuments being much injured in appearance, although the blow has been violent; yet the force of the large shot may have ruptured the liver or spleen. If higher up, it may perhaps fracture the ribs, in addition to a more severe contusion of the integuments. When these accidents occur, the symptoms arising from the wound or con- tusion of the trunk of the body are to be first considered. If they do not indicate a speedy dissolution of the patient, or the prospect of such an event in two or three days, the operation ought to be performed, and a chance of recovery given to the sufferer, which he would not have, the arm being retained, and the injury of the chest remaining the same. The danger