293 Symptoms of Concussion. distant an interval as to render its recurrence uncertain. At last respiration is satisfactorily established, and the pulse which was doubtful at the commencement of the restoration to existence, becomes perceptible, although often irregular, and sometimes continues so until reaction has taken place. With this partial recovery of the natural functions of the body, vomiting is apt to supervene, and is one of the earliest and most satisfactory symptoms of returning sensibility. It was formerly supposed to be peculiar to cases of concussion, but it is often present in cases evidently of compression or irritation from external violence. The breathing becomes in general quite free; and although it is occasionally laboured, it is rarely stertorous, a symptom which may be considered, when permanent, as a more distinct sign of continued irritation, or of compression and of extra- vasation, than of concussion. The sensibility of the surface however, is not fully established, the patient is not cognizant of any injury committed upon him, and if he should recover, has no recollection of what has passed. This first stage does not last long, and with the partial re-establishment of the functions of the lungs and of the heart, and of the circulation of the blood through the brain, although irregularly or insufficiently performed, the second stage may be supposed to begin. The patient is still in a state of stupefaction, although now perhaps sensible to personal mal- treatment; and in this condition he may remain for many days; he draws away or moves the part aggrieved; he may be able to answer in a monosyllable correctly or otherwise to questions loudly put, as if to rouse him from slumber; but if the answer should be longer, it will generally be incoherent. The pupils are for the most part in a medium or in a con- tracted state, but rarely dilated. Stimulants were formerly given at and up to this point, with a view of reviving and re- storing the patient to greater activity, and to prevent a relapse into his former state. Dissection has, however, proved that it is a state in which congestion is about to be followed by inflammation of the brain or of its membranes; that the stage succeeding to this is one of active inflammation, even if the patient should eventually recover; and if he c o 2