539 is generally unnecessary. ticularin confining it to the muscular parts; M. Baudens, one of the latest writers on the subject points out the additional ten- dency this gives to the formation of hernia, and furnishes there- fore the soundest reason for not doing it without an especial cause. When a slip of the muscular or tendinous structures interferes with the quiescence of the wound; when it is desirable to introduce a finger to make an examination; when it is necessary to divide a portion to allow the restora- tion of protruded parts, no one will doubt the propriety of the direction. But when neither these nor any other good or sufficient reason can be given for such an operation as that of enlarging the wound, (debridant la plaie,) simply because it has been usual so to do, at the risk of making a large hernial pro- trusion instead of a smaller one, it is unnecessary. It gives rise to some bleeding, but that is really nothing; it makes a cut instead of a hole, by which nothing essential is gained; and as this enlargement of the wound can always be accom- plished when it may become necessary from a sufficient cause, such interference, especially on the fore-part or the sides of the abdomen, may be safely omitted. 398. When a musket-ball, passing across the abdomen, comes out behind through the thick muscles of the back, with perhaps a slit-like opening in the skin, through which some urine, and perhaps fcecal fluid or matter may also pass, such wound should be enlarged both superficially and deeply. There is here an object to be gained, and the operation is necessary. There is no objection to its being done when it is even supposed that these fluids or matters are likely to be soon, or ultimately discharged through it, as it is desirable that any secretions or effusions which cannot be evacuated by the natural passages should have every reasonable oppor tunity offered of making their escape. 399. When it is obvious, from internal haemorrhage or from the discharge of fcecal matter, or from the introduction of the finger, by which it can be felt, that a large hole or rent has been made in an intestine, the wound should then be enlarged so as to allow of its being brought into sight, when the edges should, if required, be smoothed, and the continuous suture applied in the manner directed, aph. 391.