Wounds through both sides of the Chest. 431 through the body. A continued state of anxiety and depres- sion after an accident of this kind is a disagreeable accom- paniment of the injury, during which little should be done beyond the giving of a little cordial, and quieting the appre- hensions of the patient, leaving him to rest if possible, after the necessary applications have been made. If a gradual improvement take place, if the pulse rise, if the patient resume more of his natural appearance, and that state of com- mencing excitement which is denominated reaction follow hope may be then entertained. The general symptoms, as long as they continue within ordinary bounds, are of little importance; the local ones, significative of action commencing in the injured part, are however to be carefully watched Ihey are those of inflammation of the pleura, and it may be of the lung. This inflammation begins slowly, and a day mav elapse before it is well marked; for when persons have died within the first few hours from such injuries, the pleura has often shown but little sign of inflammatory action. Ausculta- tion should always be resorted to from the moment of injurv and constantly used throughout the treatment. Whenever it is concluded that adhesion between the two pleura has failed to take place, the direction to lie on the wounded side ceases to be of importance. Until this period no food whatever should be allowed, and thirst should be allayed bv small quantities of water. y 329. A punctured, incised, or gunshot wound, going fairlv through both cavities of the chest, is usually believed to be quickly, if not immediately mortal; an opinion generally cor- rect with respect to wounds made by musket-balls, although it is certainly not the case with regard to punctured wounds and does not always occur in those made by pistol or musket- O tills. Sergeant-Major Richards, of the 29th Regiment, received thirteen sword or bayonet wounds, and other injuries on the heights of Rolica, on the 17th August, 1808, one particularly through each side of the chest, between the ribs, as if the small sword had made a wound of larger size than u'sual Be had distinguished himself greatly in covering the body of his commanding officer, and was beaten down before the British