Bedsteads for Gun-shot Fractures of the Femur. 145 must be prevented by a careful examination of the wound when suppuration has been fully established, and the sensi- bility of the parts is in some degree diminished, when, if loose splinters of bone can be felt, they ought to be removed by inci- sions carefully and gently made to the extent which may be required. If this be not done early, the ossific deposit will take place around, and shut them in, even if the wound should close, which it usually will not. Their retention is accompa- nied by a firm thickening of the part, and in due course of time a spot of inflammation implies the formation of an abscess, and an ulcerated opening through the new bony deposit. When this abscess breaks externally, the probe will pass through the hole in the new bone, and rest on the rough, dead, and now moveable splinter, the extraction of which can alone afford permanent relief. The earlier this is done the softer the ossific matter will be; at an early period it will cut like Parmesan cheese intermixed with lime. If deferred until the bony matter is quite hard, it must be cut through with the chisel, or bone scissors or forceps, the application of which sometimes requires great force. 153. The successful treatment of a gun shot fracture of the thigh cannot be effected whilst the patient is lying on a little straw or a mat on the ground, and proper bedsteads should always form a part of the hospital stores of an army in the field. There is one in use at the Westminster Hospital, and another at the Royal Westminster Ophthalmic Hospital, which may be taken as models. Each, when complete, with mattress, &c, costs ten pounds, and with a second inclined plane and mattress, might answer for two fractures; six may be easily carried in any common or spring cart wherever they are wanted. They would alleviate the sufferings, the horrible torments many suffer unnecessarily. There is a very good and even cheaper one in use in the London Hospital, well worthy attention. Young backs and young knees only can bend for consecutive hours over men lying on the ground. Doctors of fifty years of age cannot do it; they are physically unequal to the labour. A staff-surgeon on a field of battle half a century old is almost an absurdity in the art, if not in the science of surgery: he ought to be promoted to the rank o