and Fenestrated Layer. 173 The spheroidal or glandular epithelium consists of cells, more or less circular or spherical in figure, each having a large nucleus in its centre. This epithelium is met with in all glandular organs, such as the liver, kidney, lacrymal and salivary glands, and in these cells the proper secretion of the gland is developed. The tesselated and cylindrical kinds are, on the contrary, more or less protective. The two first kinds are sometimes ciliated, by the addition, at their free extremities, of several fine, pellucid, blunt, and pliant hair-like processes or cilia, about bol00 of an inch long, which are, during life, in constant motion. This kind of epi- thelium, known as the ciliary, lines the whole respiratory tract of mucous membrane; the palpebral conjunctiva, as opposed to the tesselated on the eye-ball; the ventricles of the brain; the posterior half of the uterus, and the Fallopian tubes. The epithelium is placed upon the second layer of the internal coat, which, from certain appearances of apertures or windows, has been called the perforated or fenestrated layer. (See diagram No. 2.) It can be peeled off in small pieces only, and shows under a power of 250 diameters a series of well-marked fibres running in almost parallel lines upon a comparatively structureless membrane, resembling the inner layer of the cornea, as in the left-hand figure of the diagram, the fibres being arranged in the length of the vessel. They frequently bifurcate, and almost immediately join again, so that an oval space, resembling a hole, is perceived. This is not always a hole or perforation, as it is generally described to be, as may be seen and proved by the fact of the supposed opening being sometimes filled up by small bodies, like nuclei, as if the oval space were occupied by a cell. This fenestrated layer varies in thickness in different vessels, and is more strongly developed in the lower animals than in man. When this layer is very thick, the fibres which are yellow do not all run in the direction of the length of the vessel, for others crossing at right angles may sometimes be observed, as de- lineated in the right-hand figure of diagram No. 2. These two layers compose the ancient inner coat of an artery, and are frequently the seat of disease.