Cases illustrative of the Practice. 194 destroyed for some distance, and the muscles on the hack part of the leg nearly in a gangrenous state. The patient died a few days afterwards. Remarks— If an incision had heen made on the leg so as to expose the artery, and a ligature had been placed above and below the wound, the man would not have died, as far as surgery was concerned. Serjeant William Lillie, of the 62nd regiment, aged thirty- two, was wounded in the right thigh, on the 10th of April, at the battle of Toulouse, by a musket-ball, which passed through, in an oblique direction downwards and inwards, close to the bone, describing a track of seven inches. The ball was ex- tracted behind on the field. He said he had bled a good deal on the receipt of the injury, which he had stopped by binding his sash around the limb. The discharge from the wound was considerable; it appeared, however, to be going on well until the 20th of the month, when, on making a sudden turn m bed, dark-coloured blood flowed from both orifices of the wound in considerable quantity. I had given an order, as the Deputy Inspector-General, in charge of all the wounded, that no ope- ration should be performed on a wounded artery without a report being sent to me, and an hour at least granted for a reply, unless the case were of too urgent a nature to admit of it. It appeared to be so in this instance, and before I arrived Mr. Dease had performed the operation for aneurism at the lower part of the upper third of the thigh. I could only ex- press my regret that it had been done, and point out the probability of the recurrence of the haemorrhage from the lower end of the artery, which took place on the 7th of May, when the limb was amputated, and the man died. On exami- nation the artery *as found to have been divided exactly where it passes between the tendinous expansion of the triceps and the bone. The upper portion of the artery thus cut across ,vas closed. A probe introduced into it from above would not come out at the face of the wound, although the impulse given to this part on moving it was observable in the middle of a ,arge, yellowish-green spot, which I had previously declared to be the situation of the extremity of the artery'. which tad contracted behind this, in the shape of a claret-bottle for about