391 Morbid Changes in the L ung. of an abscess or vomica, and the occurrence of gangrene, may be omitted, as well as chronic disorders, in the views about to be taken of disease from injury. In the first stage of inflammatory obstruction, or that of en- gorgement, the lung has assumed externally a livid-red or violet colour. It is heavier and firmer than in its healthy state, and the natural feeling of crepitation, although greatly diminished, is not extinct. The lung retains the impression of the finger, and pits on pressure as if it contained a liquid, although air- bubbles can yet be distinguished in it, and its cellular or spongy texture is still to be observed. On cutting into it, a quantity of sanguineous or turbid fluid flows from it, mingled with numerous minute air-bubbles. In some places the colour of the incised surface is darker and more compact, showing that some progress has been made towards the stage of hepatization. It nevertheless tears with greater facility than in a healthy state. In the second stage or that of the red softening of Andral— the hepatization of Laennec; the latter term being in most common use, from the lung assuming somewhat the appear- ance of liver in solidity and weight—the lung does not crepitate, no air-bubbles pass out of it, but a thick bloody fluid exudes on pressure, and it sinks for the most part in water. The colour is somewhat less red or violet than in the first stage, and lighter and more varied in colour when cut into. The openings of the larger vessels and of the bronchi, when cut across, are observed as white specks; the interlobular tissue is thicker and more marked in lines running in different directions; whilst many little granular points can be dis- covered, especially with a glass, apparently of a more solid material than the surrounding parts. The word solidity, or solidification, is sufficiently explanatory in contradistinction to the naturally pervious and crepitating state of the lung. Andral believed that hepatization arises from an excessive congestion of blood, and not from any deposition of lymph. It is not easy, however, to understand, in the present state of our knowledge, how acute inflammation can go on for three or more days without secretion and depo- sition being added to congestion. That hepatization, or im-