Illustrative Case. 29S the physiological doctrines of the circulation are duly con- sidered, as -well as the experiments on which they arc founded, it will be evident that the action of the heart may be in- fluenced by other causes than those occurring from the part of the brain apparently injured. Pressure made purposely on the brain or dura mater in man during life, is always followed, when carried to too great an extent, by a diminution in the frequency of the pulse, and even by syncope. When the stage of depression is slowly passing into that of excitement, and inflammation is about to be set up, bleeding may be had recourse to; but what quantity of blood, if any, should be taken away, is often doubtful. The loss of six, eight, or even of ten ounces can do no harm, if it do no good, and it may enable the surgeon to form a more accurate judg- ment of the state or degree of the complaint than he could otherwise have done. A labouring man, thirty years of age, fell from a height of fifteen feet, on the back of his head, a small puffy tumour being perceivable near the junction of the right parietal with the occipital bone. He was insensible and motionless; countenance deadly pale; circulation weak in the arms, but more marked in the carotids; respiration heavy and slow; pupils much dilated and fixed; no relaxation of the sphincters. Hot-water bottles were applied to the feet, and friction to the body generally. In the afternoon he became warmer; some reaction seemed to be taking place, accompanied by slight twitchings of the face and shiverings. At four o'clock he was bled to sixteen ounces, in consequence of the pulse having become fuller, although soft and 96 in the minute. The surface was warm and moist, and he was so far sensible as to complain, on being pressed for an answer, of pain at the part of the head injured. The bleeding was arrested, in conse- quence of its bringing on convulsive movements ending in syncope; the pupils contracted, the countenance became deadly white, and he breathed on the right side of his mouth for a few minutes, with the whiff or puff so peculiar in cases of compression of the brain. On recovering from his swoon, the pulse became regular and 85 in number, the skin warm and moist, and the pupils more sensible to their proper stimulus.