34 A ttachment of Balls. for an incision of considerable extent will be required to enable the surgeon to extract it. Much pain will be caused, and higher inflammation may follow than would ensue if the wound were left to the efforts of nature alone, by which, in a short time, the ball would be in all pro- bability brought much nearer to the surface, and might be more safely extracted. It frequently happens, that after a few days or weeks, a ball will be distinctly felt in a spot where the surgeon had before searched in vain for it. A wound will frequently close without further trouble, the ball re- maining without inconvenience in its new situation; and the patient not being annoyed by it, does not feel disposed to submit to pain or inconvenience for its removal. A very strong reason for the extraction of balls during the first period of treatment, if it can be safely accomplished, is, that they do not always remain harmless, but frequently give rise to dis- tressing or harassing pains in or about the part, which often oblige the sufferer to submit to their extraction at a later period, when their removal is infinitely more difficult, and may be more distressing than at the moment of injury. Nothing appears more simple than to cut out a ball which can be felt at the distance of an inch, or even half an inch below the skin, but the young surgeon often finds it more difficult than he expected, because he makes his incision too small; and cannot at all times oppose sufficient resistance to prevent the ball from retreating before the effort he makes for its ex- pulsion with the forceps or other instrument. The ball also requires to be cleared from the surrounding cellular substance, to a greater extent than might at first be imagined; for all that seems to be required, is, that a simple incision be made down to the surface of it, when it will slip out, which is not always found to be the case. When a ball has been lodged for years, a membranous kind of sac is formed around it, which shuts it in as it were from all communication with the sur- rounding parts. If it should become necessary to extract a ball which has been lodged in this manner, the membranous sac will often be found to adhere so strongly to the ball, that it cannot be got out without great difficulty, and sometimes not without cutting out a portion of the adhering sac.