443 Of Colonel Broke ; Case of Colonel Broke by himself.—Towards the close of the battle of Orthez, on the 27th of Feb. 1814, a musket-shot struck me between the second and third ribs on the right side, near the breast-bone. I was then on horseback, being aide- de-camp to Lieutenant-General Sir Henry Clinton, command- ing the sixth division. The sensation was precisely as if I had been struck a violent blow with the point of a cane, but it did not unhorse me. I was attended in a very short time by the surgeon of the 61st regiment, when, on removing my clothes, the air and blood bubbled out from the wound as I drew my breath. The surgeon, turning me on my face, dis- covered the ball to be lodged under the thin part of the blade- bone. This he cut through and extracted the ball, and with it pieces of my coat, waistcoat, and shirt, which were lodged between the ribs and the blade-bone. This occurred about four p.m. I was then removed to the town of Orthez, a distance of about three miles, and in the course of the afternoon, the veins of both arms were opened in at least seven different places, but scarcely any blood came away; breathing became, in a day or two, exceedingly painful, and I felt nearly suffocated, when, in the evening, my brother, Sir Charles Broke Vere, arrived with my friend, Mr. Guthrie, who examined me carefully. The agony of drawing breath was such that I could scarcely endure it. He opened one of the temporal arteries, and desired that it might be allowed to bleed without interruption. He afterwards left me, to visit some other wounded men, and returned in about three hours, when I told him that I felt relieved, and had much less of the suffocating pain in breathing. He then opened the other temporal artery, directing as before, that its bleeding should not be checked. I shortly after that dropped asleep, and, on waking, could breathe freely; and my recovery was, from that time, progressive, the wound in front, where the ball entered, being the first closed; but both were healed at the end of about eight weeks, and in about ten I was able to rejoin the army at Bordeaux. H & Br0KEj Qdonth He is now, in 1853, in perfect health; respiratory murmur free all over the chest. The Duke of Richmond, then Earl of March, was wounded