120 Amputation beloio the Tuberosities of Hie Humerus. shoulder, bounded above by the scapular extremity of the clavicle, and a small part of the acromion; on the inside, by the coracoid process; and on the outside, by the head of the humerus. The knife thus entered obliquely is to be passed across to the outside, opening in its passage into the joint, when, by sliding the knife forwards over the head of the bone, whilst the deltoid is raised up by the operator or an assistant, a flap is to be formed, during which proceeding the arm is to be raised from the side, to facilitate its performance. If this flap be well made, the upper part of the capsular ligament, the tendons of the long head of the biceps and of the supra-spinatus, are divided, and the tendons of the infra-spinatus, teres minor, and sub-scapularis, are also cut through in part, if not entirely. The upper and posterior flap is thus completed. In the second step of the operation, the surgeon passes the knife behind the head of the humerus, and makes the under and anterior or inner flap, by cutting downwards and inwards, including in it a very small portion of the deltoid, the pecto- ralis major, latissimus dorsi, teres major, the triceps, coraco- brachialis, the short head of the biceps, and the vessels and nerves, when the limb is separated from the body. The flaps are nearly of the same size, and are to be brought together by sutures. . , . ... M. Baudens recommends the operation, performed m this manner, to be begun by introducing the double-edged straight knife from below, and passing it upwards to the same spot where Lisfranc commences. In the secondary operation, or that done several weeks after the receipt of the injury, in consequence of the attempt to save the arm having failed, the soft parts will often be found so altered and impacted together, that they will not yield or separate, and nothing is gained but by each cut of the knife, causing thereby some little delay, inconvenience, and loss of time. 115 Amputation of the arm immediately below the tuberosities of the humerus outfit to ho done in the following manner :- The arm being raised from the side, and an assistant having compressed, or being ready to compress, the subclavian artery, the surgeon commences his incision one or two fingers' breadth