568 Case of General Sir Hercules Pakenham. assured him I could distinguish the ball very deeply seated; and in the summer of 1846, thirty-five years after the receipt of the injury, it had descended so far that I passed a probe under it at the distance of two inches and a half from the lower opening. He was to have come up as early as his duties would possibly permit, in the spring of 1847, to have had it removed, when he was suddenly cut off by apoplexy, to the great regret of all who knew him. The late General Sir Hercules Pakenham, G.C.B., was wounded at the assault of Badajos, by a musket-ball, April 6tb, 1812, which deprived him of the use of the thumb and little finger, and partially of the hand; and by another which struck him on the right iliac region, passing in just below Poupart's liga- ment and outwardly through the ilium. Eight pieces of bone came away at Elvas, and eleven more, in 1813, in London. He went to Bareges in 1814-15-16-17, with the hope that the ball might be loosened and removed, but in vain; it never could be found. A small quantity of inoffensive glutinous matter, sometimes streaked with blood, was discharged occa- sionally from the seat of the injury. At times the wound became painful and very troublesome for a week or ten days together, after which little inconvenience was felt in the limb. Sir J. M. Wilson, now of Chelsea Hospital, was wounded in seven different places, and by three musket-balls, on the left hip, at the Chippewa, near the falls of Niagara, on the 5th July, 1814. One, which struck him a little before the trochanter, passed upwards through the ilium (from which several pieces of bone came away on four or five dif- ferent occasions), and lodged against or in the spinal column, rendering the left leg quite powerless, and impairing the power of the right. He fell. Shortly after an Indian warrior came up, placed his foot on his neck, drew out his scalping-knife, seized his hair, and was in the act of beginning to scalp him, when a shot passed through his chest and laid him prostrate by the side of his proposed victim, who thus happily escaped. The numbness and inability to put the limb to the ground continued from eighteen mouths to two years, during which time he was on crutches. After this he