Symptoms of Concussion. 294 relapse into that state of stupefactive insensibility which precedes death, sufficient evidence to account for his decease may be found in the laceration of the substance of the brain, in small extravasations in various parts, or in other mischief which may not perhaps be expected. Previously to this stage of fatal termination, the muscles are not relaxed, and do not lose their tone, as in a similarly fatal case of compression of the brain; the urine does not flow involuntarily until after the spinal marrow has been some time seriously implicated, and death is at hand. This renders it necessary, in all cases of injury of the head, to attend to the state of the bladder, which may become distended, and render the use of the catheter necessary. The urine will be acid as long as the catheter is required, and will become alkaline as soon as it dribbles away involuntarily. The bowels will at an early period be confined, and more powerful doses of aperient medicines will be re- quired than are needed under more ordinary circumstances, although the sphincter ani may be relaxed, and the power of retention be lost from the first, provided the injury has been very severe. When the fseces pass involuntarily, it is pre- sumed that the cerebro-spinal axis is seriously affected, and that the excito-motory system is greatly impaired, if not wholly destroyed. When a person is insensible, it is not always easy or convenient to ascertain whether the fseces pass involuntarily from loss of power of the sphincter ani, or are discharged from the ordinary action of the bowels, of which the patient cannot give notice. It may be inferred when the urine flows in a stream, although apparently in an involuntary manner, that the power of the detrusor muscle of the bladder is only im- paired. In general, certain efforts are made to evacuate the bowels, although the person may be upon the whole uncon- scious of the act, showing that the defect is not essentially in the sphincter ani, but in the want of consciousness in the brain. Vomiting should not be solicited, as it may do harm when in excess, but when slight it has appeared to be beneficial. The more simple the treatment during this the period of commencing reaction, the more likely is it to be ultimately successful. The period at which insensibility ceases, and the