Amputation of the Leg. 97 forward as much as possible, and the straps of adhesive plaster applied from side to side—that is, the wound is to be closed vertically or nearly so, that the straps of plaster may not in any way press upon the fore part of the tibia, by which its protrusion will be avoided — an occurrence which almost invariably follows when the line of approximation is horizon- tal, and the strips of plaster press upon the bone. If the spine of the tibia be sharp, it should be removed by the saw, whether the operation be done by the circular incision or by the use of flaps. 91. The flap operation, as performed by Mr. Luke, differs from that of the thigh in some particulars. There is a greater variety in the proportion which the soft parts in the posterior flap bear to those in the anterior; and the distance from the bones at which the limb is transfixed in the first step of the operation is subject to such variety, that in the large calf the mid-point for the introduction of the knife lies at some distance from the posterior aspect of the bones; in the small calf it is close to it. The course of the knife through the limb is oblique, instead of transverse, for the purpose of accommodating the line of incision to the plane of the two bones. The ante- rior flap is formed in the same way as in the thigh amputation, but it has proportionately more integuments and is thinner; yet its base and length are rendered equal to the base and length of the posterior flap, and may be adjusted evenly with it when the stump is dressed. In the circular division of the remaining soft parts, after the formation of the flaps, there is a necessary variation in the proceedings, from the circum- stance of there being two bones united by inter-osseous mem- brane. It may, however, be accomplished by sweeping the knife around the more distant bone of the two, its point being afterwards carried between the bones through the inter-osseous membrane. While the knife is between the bones its edge may be so turned that the membrane may be divided longi- tudinally to any convenient extent, for the easy introduction of a retractor, and the soft parts around the bone nearest to the operator may subsequently be divided by a sweep of the knife, in a manner similar to that adopted for the division of parts around the more distant bone. The sawing of the bones K