Wounds of the Scalp. 371 292. The wind of a cannon-ball has been supposed to exert some influence on the brain, when passing close to the head; there is however no valid foundation for the opinion. An officer of the fifth division was struck by a cannon-shot, during the assault of Badajos, on the right side of the head and face. It carried away the right eye and the whole face, the left eye hanging in the orbit, the floor of which was destroyed. A part of the lower jaw remained on the left side, but a great part of the tongue was gone. He had lost a large quantity of blood, but was quite sensible. In the middle of the next day he suffered much from the want of water to moisten his throat, which could not be procured. After a distressing delay of three or four hours under a hot sun, a small quantity was obtained, the arrival of which he observed; and whilst I was giving directions relative to its distribution, I felt a gentle tap on my shoulder, and on turning round saw this unfortu- nate man standing behind me, a terrific object, holding out a small cup for water, not one drop of which he could swallow. Alone amongst strangers, he felt that every kindness in our power to offer was bestowed upon him, and he contrived to write his thanks with a pencil, which he gave me when he pressed my hand at parting at eleven at night. I was glad at sun-rise to find he had just expired. 293. When a portion of bone is as it were sliced off with the scalp, and adheres to it firmly, the scalp and bone should be reapplied; and the cure will often be effected without diffi- culty. When the portion of bone cut off, and hanging to the scalp which is turned down, has but little adherence, it should be removed. A German dragoon was brought to me in front of Madrid, who had received a slicing cut of this kind on the top and side' of the head, which caused a portion of the scalp and parietal- bone to be turned down over the ear, uncovering the dura mater. Replaced and retained in its situation, the flap and bone appeared to adhere, and the man recovered. In the case of a Portuguese soldier, cut down by the French cavalry in a sortie during the second investment of Badajos, a portion of bone cut off with a flap was quite loose, and was removed. The patient did equally well. In the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons there are