42 Mortification: Constitutional and Local. The gangrene which follows wounds has been termed trau- matic, which explains nothing but the fact of its following an injury. Local mortification may be the effect of great injury applied direct to the part, or of an injury to the great vessels of the limb. It may occur from intense cold freezing the part, or from intense heat burning or destroying it. 27. It sometimes happens that a cannon-ball strikes a limb, and without apparently doing much injury to the skin, so completely destroys the internal textures, that gangrene takes place almost without an effort on the part of nature to prevent it. This kind of injury was formerly attributed to the wind of a ball; but no one who has seen noses, ears, &c, injured or carried away, and all parts of the body grazed, without such mischief following, can believe that either the wind, or the electricity collected by it can produce such effect. The patient is sensible of having received a severe blow on the part affected, which does not show much external sign of injury, the skin being often apparently unhurt or only grazed; the motion of the part is lost, and it is insensible; the bone or bones may or may not be broken, but in either case the sufferer, if the injury be in the leg, is incapable of putting it to the ground. After a short time the limb changes colour in the same manner as when severely bruised, and the necessary changes rapidly go on to gangrene. The limb swells, but not to any extent, and more from extravasation between the muscles and the bones than from inflammation, which, although it is attempted to be set up, never attains to any height. The mortification which ensues tends to a state between the humid and the dry, and rather more to the latter than the former. These cases are not of frequent occurrence, and are not com- monly observed until after the blackness of the skin, and the want of sensibility and motion, attract attention; for the patient is generally stupified at first by the blow, and the part or parts about the injury feel benumbed. I made these cases an' object of particular research after the battle of Waterloo, but could find only one among the British wounded. The man stated that he had received a blow on the back part of the leg, he believed from a cannon-shot, which brought him