Case of Sir J. M. Wilson, Ac. 569 gradually recovered, always suffering more or less. The pain in the back is often most excruciating, coming on without any apparent cause, except perhaps from change of weather. He limps after walking a couple of miles, and if exercise be con- tinued pain ensues. He married in 1824, has several children, and is obliged to lead a very regular, quiet life, without which he breaks down. The great suffering he experiences, at the end of near forty years, is however from the pain in the back, sense of coldness in the left leg, and numbness accompanied by pain in the course of the nerves. He is equally sensible to heat in a close atmosphere, which he is obliged to avoid. The alvine and urinary secretions, &c, have always been im- paired or deranged since the wound was received. He is troubled with painful affections and a train of nervous feelings of the whole system, attributable to the injury. The ball can of late be felt at the bottom of a soft swelling in the loins; but the Colonel, since the affair of the Indian, has no predilection for cold steel, and protests as loudly against the scalpel of the surgeon as the scalping-knife of the Indian. A soldier, of the 4th division of Infantry, was wounded at the battle of Salamanca by a musket-ball, which entered im- mediately above the right ilium, passed across, and made its exit nearly opposite on the left side, going nearer to the back than to the wall of the abdomen. He was supposed to be killed, but had recovered a little life when brought to me to the field hospital some hours afterwards. The belly was swelled, generally tympanitic, and some hemorrhage had taken place from the wound of entrance, and he was unable to move the leg of that side. On reaction taking place, he was bled repeatedly, and treated antiphlogistically with the aid of calomel, opium, and antimony. He was removed to the San Domingo hospital, and on the sixth day the bowels were re- lieved naturally. A small quantity of fcecal matter was passed for several days with the discharge from the wound, but this gradually ceased, and the man ultimately recovered without any particular defect except weakness, and occasional pain and derangement of bowels, on any irregularity. John Bryan, 1st light battalion of the King's German LegioD, was wounded on the 17th June near Quatre-Bras by c c o 2