Wounds of the Lower Jaw. 501 ever since been subjected to attacks in the head of an in- creasing and distressing nature, requiring great attention. 369. Wounds of the lower jaw are perhaps more common, and are certainly more troublesome, than those of the upper jaw; they are more difficult of management, and for the most part end in greater deformity, unless particular care be taken to prevent it, and then only in very severe cases, by operations which were formerly not in use, but which the intrepidity of the surgeons of the present day have deprived of all their terrors. I mean the methodical division of the soft parts, thesawing off and removal of the broken pieces of bone, and the rounding off of those parts of the jaw which may remain irregular and pointed. M. Baudens has given two good examples of the success of this proceeding during his campaigns in Algeria. In the first case, the ball entered at the middle of the left cheek, and came out by the side of the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra. The ascending ramus of the lower jaw was broken into numerous splinters. M. Baudens divided the soft parts down to the bone, entering the straight bistoury four lines, or the third of an inch below the articulation of the jaw with the temporal bone. He then carried it downwards, and a little obliquely forwards, so as to terminate it in the fibres of the masseter muscle, about half an inch below the base of the bone. This incision was begun below the seventh pair of nerves, and exposed the parotid gland divided vertically at its middle part. The splinters were removed, a part of the pterygoideus internus muscle was divided, and a projecting point of bone attached to it sawn off. He then separated the attachments of the buccinator, temporal, and pterygoideus externus muscles, divided the ligaments, and removed the coronoid and articulating processes, taking care to avoid the fifth and seventh pairs of nerves. The bleeding from two arteries was suppressed by twisting their ends; and the parts were afterwards brought together by sutures, which remained' for eight days. A month after the opera- tion the patient ate solid food, and in six weeks was cured. In the second case, the ball entered near the left commissure of the lip, and came out behind on the side of the middle of the neck; three inches of the jaw were splintered, the ends of