Sloughing or Pulpous Form. 159 the limb is usually swollen for some distance, of a shining white colour, and not peculiarly sensible, except in spots, the whole of it being perhaps cedematous or pasty. The pain is burning, and unbearable in the part itself, whilst the exten- sion of the disease generally in a circular direction, may be marked from hour to hour; so that in from another twenty- four to forty-eight hours, nearly the whole of the calf of a leg, or the muscles of a buttock, or even of the wall of the abdo- men, may disappear, leaving a deep, great hollow, or hiatus, of the most destructive character, exhaling a peculiar stench, which can never be mistaken, and spreading with a rapidity quite awful to contemplate. The great nerves and arteries appear to resist its influence longer than the muscular struc- tures, but these at last yield; the largest nerves are destroyed, and the arteries give way, frequently closing the scene, after repeated haemorrhages, by one which proves the last solace of the unfortunate sufferer. I have seen all the largest arte- ries of the extremities give way in succession, and until the progress of the disease was arrested by proper means, the application of a ligature was useless. The joints offer little resistance; the capsular and synovial membranes are soon in- vaded, and the ends of the bones laid bare. The extension of this disease is, in the first instance, through the medium of the cellular structure of the body. The skin is undermined, and falls in; or a painful red, and soon black patch, or spot, is perceived at some distance from the original mischief, prepa- ratory to the whole becoming one mass of putridity, whilst the sufferings of the patient are extreme. A complaint of this kind cannot long be local, even if a local origin be admitted; the accompanying fever is usually dependent on the previous state and general constitution of the patient, modified by the season of the year, or the prevailing type of febrile disease. This gangrenous disease does not always prevail in this, its most concentrated form; the destroying process assumes more of a sloughing than a gangrenous character, whence Delpech has denominated it pulpous, rather than gangrenous. It is in its nature almost equally destructive, although not quite so formidable in appearance. It may attack the whole surface of an ulcer at once, or in distinct points, all, however,