16 Wounds of Ike Abdomen. differs, nevertheless, but little from that I have noticed with respect to wounds of the thorax. I have, however, lately seen two or three cases recorded, in which all known principles were successfully resorted to; and I augur from them a most important change in the attention paid, and about to be paid to the treatment of these injuries. I have recommended you to open the belly of a man to enable you to reach and reduce a strictured protrusion of some internal part into the chest, through a hole in the diaphragm. A friend of mine being in Paris, and understanding that M. Amussat had laid open the back of a lady, in order to enable him to make an incision into her great bowel, above a part strictured and impassable from disease, and had thus saved her life, waited upon him accordingly. Shown into his ante-chamber, he fell into conversation with a very agreeable, good-looking lady, profuse in her praises of the skill of M. Amussat, of which she seemed to speak so feelingly, as to induce my friend to say that the especial object of his visit was to see a lady on whom he had performed a remarkable operation, which he named. His fair auditor was delighted, declared herself to be the person who had been so operated upon, and as the speedy arrival of the doctor was uncertain, she with great good-nature raised her inexpressibles, pulled out the plug in her back, and convinced my friend of the suc- cessful result of the operation on her colon. This operation has since been done as successfully in England, and I have very lately seen a case in which the abdomen was opened above the left groin for a similar purpose, the patient, a good-looking, middle-aged man, congratulating his surgeon and himself on its successful result. You may not then, gentlemen, stand still, but look to your anatomy, the founda- tion on which the superstructure of scientific surgery is to be built, and without which you can do little or nothing, except by accident. The treatment of gun-shot fractures of the upper and lower extremities was entirely altered during the progress of the war, although the improvement thus obtained was mate- rially impeded by every surgeon, young or old, sent out from either London, Dublin, or Ediuburgh, even to the last battle of