244 Utter Insufficiency of one Ligature. 213. M. S , a female, aged fifty-three, was admitted into the Westminster Hospital, with a large moveable tumour in the neck, under the sterno-mastoid muscle of the right side. An operation haviDg been commenced for its removal, the tumour was found to be of a more than doubtful character, and to dip down between and behind the great vessels of the neck. In the course of the operation, the external carotid was opened a little above its bifurcation, and a ligature was applied on the common carotid. The bleeding was not in the least arrested; a ligature was then placed on the external carotid above the hole in the artery, which still continued to pour out blood; a third ligature was now put upon the internal carotid, with no better success. A fourth ligature was then applied on the external carotid, below the hole in it, including the superior thyroid, which was given off at that part; after which the bleeding ceased, and never returned. Three liga- tures came away in three weeks; the fourth remained during five weeks. The patient recovered from the operation, but the tumour grew again, and the woman died exhausted at the end of six months. On examination after death, the arteries referred to were found to be obliterated for some dis- tance above and below the parts injured. The utter inefficiency of everything but the two ligatures, the one immediately above, the other immediately below the part opened, could not be more distinctly proved, if a case were even invented for the purpose; and the fact could not be more satisfactorily shown, that in every case of wounded— not aneurismal—artery in the neck, one ligature should be applied above, and another below the opening in the injured vessel, and not one alone on the common trunk, even if that should be the part injured. It is argued that when a man has his internal carotid cut on the inside of his throat by a foreign body of any kind, thrust through his mouth, that the artery cannot be tied by two ligatures at the wounded part through the mouth, not even if it were enlarged from ear to ear. What, then, is to be done ? The artery should be secured by ligature by an in- cision made on the outside of the neck. This being admitted, the question then is, shall the wounded artery be laid bare at