Amputation at the Shoulder-joint. 119 go to be inserted into the great tuberosity, and the thick tendon of the sub-scapularis muscle internally, where it is attached to the smaller tuberosity. The head of the bone is then readily drawn out from the glenoid cavity, when the inner flap, in- cluding the axillary artery, vein, and nerves, may be taken hold of between the two fore-fingers and thumb of an assistant, whilst the surgeon, with one sweep of the knife, divides all the remaining parts below. The axillary and the posterior circumflex arteries will have to be secured; the anterior cir- cumflex, when arising from the posterior, is frequently cut off with it; the nerves are to be shortened; the flaps brought together by sutures; and an especial pad placed upon the pectoralis major to prevent unnecessary retraction if pos- sible. 113. Tlie operation by one, or nearly one upper flap, is to be performed when the under soft parts of the arm have been destroyed and the bone broken. It may be done by thrusting a small two-edged knife through the integuments and under the deltoid muscle, from side to side, to form a flap; or it may be made by commencing an incision an inch above the posterior fold of the arm-pit, and carrying it over the arm in a curved form, the convexity being downwards, to the same height on the anterior fold; the lowest part of the incision being five fingers' breadth from the point of the acromion, the posterior end or point of it being somewhat higher than the anterior one. The flap being turned up, and the tendon of the pectoralis major divided, the head of the bone is to be ex- posed and separated as before stated, as much as possible of the integuments being preserved on the under part of the arm. This will often be best done by dissecting out the head and broken pieces of bone, and then preserving in succession every piece of sound integument, before the artery, vein, and nerves are divided. 114. Lisfranc, and many French and continental surgeons, recommend the operation to be done with a pointed, double- edged knife, in the following manner:—The arm being ap- proximated to the trunk, in a state of half pronation, the point of the knife is to be entered at a small, triangular space, which may be perceived on the inside of the fulness of the