Question of Trephine. 338 of the leg is often considerable; it is more often dependent on degree. When the fracture is nearly transverse, and the skin is cleanly divided, the difference between it and a simple frac- ture of the same part, is little more than one of time. This may be the case with an injury of the head; the difference between the two states in fractures of the skull has been much exaggerated; so much so, that no reliance can be placed on the supposition that there is more real danger in a case of fracture with depression, in which the scalp has been divided, than when it has been only bruised, and not divided. In all cases in which a fracture with marked depression is known to have occurred in an adult, it is good practice to ascertain the nature and extent of the depression. It is imperatively necessary if accompanied by symptoms of compression. If the result of a great number of comparative trials should be in favour of never, under any circumstances, raising a depressed portion of bone in an adult, but of leaving it to the efforts of nature, an incision in order to ascertain the state of parts below ought not to be made; but as such a result is not likely to be obtained, the practice recommended appears to be the best. The scalp should be divided, in such cases as may require the operation, by a straight, crucial, or such other shaped in- cision, as may be found most convenient to the surgeon; but no part should be removed which can be preserved with the hope of maintaining its life. 271. The cranium, together with the fracture and depression, being exposed, the question whether the trephine should be applied or not, is next to be determined. If the opera- tion by the trephine, or that of sawing a piece of bone out of the head, were not in itself dangerous, there could be no hesi- tation about its use; but it is a dangerous operation,especially in crowded hospitals, and ought not to be resorted to when it can be avoided. If any ten healthy persons were trephined in a hospital, one would in all probability die from the effects of the operation; and three or four more might have a narrow escape from the inflammation of the brain and its mem- branes, or the other consequences which would probably ensue. It is not the admission of air, which has been even