208 Illustrative Cases. rather than to any sufficient cause. The wound was not more than one-third of an inch long, a little below the edge of the pectoralis major, and immediately over the artery. The arm and hand were numb and cold; the pulse was not distinguish- able at the wrist, and it appeared to cease at the place of injury, which was harder and a little more swelled than natural. He said that his pulse had always been felt by the doctors in the usual place. The wound healed without any trouble. On the 1st of May the pulsation of the artery could be felt a little below the wound. On any exertion he had a good deal of unpleasant numbness in the thumb and fore- finger. A small cicatrix formed at the place of the wound, which was otherwise quite natural to the touch. This case proves that when a large artery is wounded in man by a sharp cutting instrument, to a certain but moderate extent, the process of cure takes place through inflammation, and by the obliteration of that part of the canal of the vessel. Con- tinental surgeons have since sacrificed whole hecatombs of animals to prove this fact, which had been so many years before recorded in England as having occurred in man. It has not been satisfactorily proved in man that a large artery, such as the femoral or even brachial, has been opened to the extent of one-third or a fourth of its circumference, and that the wound has healed without the canal becoming impervious. A smaller wound of a large artery may close without obstructing the canal of the vessel, but the part is not so firm or solid as before, and may yield, and give rise to an aneurism, having apparently the characters of a small true, as opposed to the spurious diffused or even circumscribed swelling, which more usually follows a similar accident. Colonel Fane was wounded by an arrow in the right side of the neck, opposite the bifurcation of the carotid, which caused a considerable loss of blood at the moment. The wound healed, leaving only a mark where the point of the arrow had entered. Some time afterwards he observed a small swelling at the part, which, from its pulsation, was declared to be an aneurism. Uneasy about it, he asked my opinion at Badajos, after the siege. It had not increased, but it caused him some anxiety, and I promised to place a ligature on the common