396 Local Bloodletting. to faint, he should be bled in the recumbent position; and as it is advisable to take away a sufficient quantity of blood, great care should be taken, by arresting its flow for a time, by giving stimulants, by admitting fresh air, and by sprinkling with cold water, to prevent syncope, which is sometimes dangerous in elderly persons, who may be subject to, and who are not readily recovered from it. In the second stage of the com- plaint, profuse and repeated bleedings do not answer so well; they do not remove the evil which has occurred, although they may prevent its increase. Blood should then be drawn in such quantity only as will relieve the action of the heart, restless under its efforts to propel the blood through a hepatized lung. The quickness of pulse, the cough, the difficulty of breathing, must now be aided and relieved by other means; for although the pulse is not a certain indication, on which dependence can be placed in the early stage of this complaint, the breathing generally is; and as long as the respiration is oppressed, blood should be carefully abstracted, until it be- comes manifest that the effect has been to quicken the pulse, whilst it materially diminishes its power. 307. A cupped and buffy state of the blood, together with a firm coagulum.isasatisfactory proof of the propriety of bleeding in the first stage of the disease; but after the effect of mercury on the system has been produced, it cannot be depended upon with the same degree of certainty. When the propriety of further venesection is doubtful, the greatest advantage may be obtained from the use of leeches and from cupping, parti- cularly in cases of injury to the chest. Leeches may be applied by tens and twenties at a time; and when they have ceased to bleed into a warm bread and water or evaporating poultice, they may be replaced by as many more, until the pain and the oppression have been removed. Cupping is always to be had recourse to when leeches cannot be obtained, and when well done, it is frequently to be preferred; cupping to sixteen ounces will usually be found equivalent to forty or more leeches. Both these means often relieve to a greater extent, with less general depression, than a smaller quantity of blood taken from the arm, and are therefore, at such times more advisable. "When blood cannot be obtained from the