383 Sound of the Voice. adhesion may retain the lung against the wall of the chest, some respiratory murmur may yet be distinguished; until this part of the lung shall also have yielded to the general com- pression, so as to be temporarily impervious, or have become solidified, under the continuance and extension of disease. Whilst this is taking place in the affected side, the other lung is called upon to make up the work of aerification of the blood; it labours harder, its functions become more energetic, and that side of the chest is more distended; the respirations be- come quicker, fuller, and louder, and the vesicular murmur is said to resemble that of a child—in fact, to be puerile. When the lung begins to be compressed by the circum- ambient fluid, and the respiratory murmur ceases, a peculiar modification of the respiration through the large bronchial tubes may be heard, constituting bronchial respiration. It occurs in pneumonia, in pulmonary apoplexy, and in tubercular disease when the lung is solidified. When the voice is heard through the stethoscope in these complaints the peculiar sound emitted is called bronchophony. In pleuritic effusion, the voice, when carefully examined, sometimes obtains a character not hitherto noticed, but of comparatively little importance, called cegophony, a sound which may be easily confounded with bronchophony, of the latter of which it is a modification more often alluded to than observed. Laennec says, "Simple cegophony consists in a peculiar resonance of the voice, which accompanies or follows the articulation of words. It appears to be sharper than natural, more acute and somewhat silvery, vibrating, as it were, on the surface of the lung, more as an echo of the voice than as the voice itself. It rarely enters the tube of the stetho- scope, less frequently traverses it completely. It has, besides, another peculiar character, which is constant, and from which I have taken its name. It is a trembling, bleating, or shaking sound, like that of a goat, the tone of which animal it greatly resembles. When it occurs near a large bronchial tube, as in the root of the lungs, a more or less marked bronchophony is often superadded." This sound may pervade the whole side; it is usually, however, most distinct near the inferior angle of the scapula, the patient being erect. It only exists where the