Protrusion of the Brain. 3gi urination, half an inch of the red waxed end of the tobacco- pipe was found to have gone through the sphenoid bone, by the side of the sella turcica, and to have lodged in the brain, whence it was removed bedewed with pus, the brain being yellow and softened around it. A wound of the longitudinal or lateral sinuses, allowing a free discharge of the blood poured out, is of comparatively little consequence. It is, on the contrary, a very fatal injury when the blood is permitted to accumulate. 285. A protrusion of the brain, often improperly called a fungus cerebri, is of two kinds, and occurs at different periods of time. The first kind is principally composed of coagulated blood, usually appears immediately after, or within two days after the injury, and is generally fatal. The second takes place at a later period, although it has occurred on the third or fourth day, and is formed for the most part of brain. These pro- trusions rarely take place when a considerable portion of the skull has been lost or removed, the brain then being able to ex- pand to such extent as the inflammatory impulse from within may render necessary. When the opening is small, and the dura mater has not been injured, it has been seldom observed It is then principally when the opening in the skull has been of greater extent than the size of one piece of bone removed by the trephine, the dura mater having yielded either in con- sequence of the injury or by ulceration, that this evil takes place; it is not,under proper treatment, a fatal, although it is always an extremely dangerous occurrence. In the first kind of protrusion, the dura mater must neces- sanly be torn to some extent, and the tumour which comes through it is of a dark-brown colour, glazed and covered in general by the pia mater. These protrusions were accom- panied, in every case I have seen, by delirium and other symptoms of inflammation of the brain and of its membranes, and not by coma, until near the fatal termination of the disease. I have seen them torn off by the patients themselves during life, or before death, and satisfied myself that they all arose from haemorrhage into the substance of the brain pro- bably immediately below its surface, which became more ele- vated as the inflammation proceeded, and was gradually pro- 11