178 Horn Supplied with Blood. compact form, become real spaces, meshes, or areolae, con- stituting what is now called areolar tissue, rather than the cellular of the older anatomists, from the circumstances that the areolae communicate, and that perfect cells in any tissue do not. These elements of areolar tissue can be readily distinguished by the action of acetic acid, under which re- agent the white fibres will almost disappear, leaving only a slight trace of fibres containing oval nuclei, as seen and marked in diagram 3, fig. 5. It is seen when unravelled in b, diagram 5. The inner layer of the middle coat, or muscular coat, as it may be justly termed, forms, it will be seen, the greatest part of the thickness of the wall of certain arteries, and in some instances, as in the anterior tibial artery, constitutes nearly the entire thickness of the vessel. The internal coat is in all frequently seen puckered in a longitudinal direction. 175. The arteries are supplied with blood by vessels of small size, which do not come off immediately from the part of the artery they are destined to supply, but principally from neighbouring vessels. They are called vasa vasorum. They are arranged precisely in the same manner as those of areolar tissue. A few of these vessels penetrate as far as the middle or muscular coat, but do not reach the inner, which has no vessels; proximity to the circulating fluid being apparently sufficient for its nutrition. Arteries are supplied with nervous influence by branches from the sympathetic system running in their walls, and through their connexion by ganglions with the organs they supply with blood. 176. The cells, nuclei and nucleoli, alluded to, are supposed to be thus produced. In a shapeless, consistent, sometimes almost gelatinous mass, to which the name of q/to-blastema or forma- tive substance has been given, containing the materials requisite for the production of cells, small round grains or nucleoli are perceived in the act of formation. Arouud these grains a layer of granular matter is deposited, which continually increases in thickness, and constitutes the kernel or nucleus. This is oval-shaped or round, almost always opaque, has a granular surface, and is considered to be a vesicle, a little