141 Splintering of the Bone. circumstances, and who might have been the support, the happiness of her declining years. Yet England calls herself the most humane, as well as the greatest nation upon earth; she claims to be the most civilized, and she may be so; but certainly, in the case of those who have hitherto fallen in her defence, she could not on many occasions have been more care- less or less compassionate. I have endeavoured to impress on the directors of the East India Company in particular the injustice, the carelessness of their treatment of the wounded soldiers of the royal army of Great Britain. My remonstrances have hitherto been in great part useless. It is to be hoped, however, that one or other of the committees which are likely to be again formed in the new parliament on Indian affairs, will inquire into this matter, for a public inquiry can alone cause this grievance to be redressed. Old habits are not to be overcome but by public opinion. 145. The peculiar difficulty in treating a gun-shot fracture takes place when the bone is splintered for some distance, as well as broken. In these cases, inflammation occurs internally in the membranous covering of the cancellated structure of the bone, ending in the death of the parts affected; whilst the periosteum takes on that peculiar action externally, which ends in the deposition of ossific matter around the splinters which have lost their life, and are enveloped by it. The bony matter, at first small in quantity, is gradually augmented, and deposited for some distance in the surrounding parts, so that it has been known to include the neighbouring vessels and nerves in less than twenty days; at the end of a few weeks the quantity of ossific deposit is often very remarkable. Each splinter of bone becomes the sequestrum of a necrosis, in a similar manner as it is known to occur in the bones of young persons spontaneously affected by this disease, with this essential difference; that in the idiopathic disease there is only one, as if worm-eaten, sequestrum, perhaps the length of the shaft of the bone, and easily removable by one operation, whilst there may be in the traumatic disease several dead centres of ossific deposit, each of which requires to be re- moved by an operation to effect a cure. This new bony deposit will often be half an inch and more in thickness, and