102 Amputation at (lie Ankle-joint. taking great care to cut parallel with the bone, and to avoid scoring or laceration of the integuments. He then opens the joint in front, carries his knife outwards and downwards on each side of the astragalus, so as to divide the lateral liga- ments, and thus completes the disarticulation. Lastly, the knife is carried round the extremities of the tibia and fibula, so as to afford room for applying the saw, by means of which the articular projections are removed, together with the thin connecting slice of bone covered by cartilage. The vessels being then tied, and the edges of the wound stitched together, a piece of wet lint is applied lightly over the stump, without any bandage, so as to avoid the risk of undue pressure in the event of the cavity becoming distended with blood, which would be apt to occasion sloughing of the flap. When reco- very is completed, the stump has a bulbous form, from the thick cushion of dense textures that cover the heel, and readily admits of being fitted with a boot. " The advantages which I orginally anticipated from this operation were—;first, the formation of a more useful support for the body than could be obtained from any form of ampu- tation of the leg; and, secondly, the diminution of risk to the patient's life, from the smaller amount of mutilation, the cut- ting of arterial branches instead of trunks, the leaving entire the medullary hollow and membrane, and the exposure of can- cellated bone, which is not liable to exfoliate like the dense osseous substance of the shaft. From my own experience, amounting to upwards of fifty cases, and that of many other practitioners who have adopted amputation at the ankle, I now feel warranted to state that these favourable expectations have been fully realized, and that, in addition to its other advantages, this operation may be regarded as almost entirely free from danger to life." This operation has not answered, in some of the hospitals in London, the expectations entertained of it from its success in Edinburgh, the flap formed from the under part, or heel, having frequently sloughed. This, Mr. Syme declares, is the fault of the operators, and not of the operation, sufficient atten- tion not having been paid to make the flap of a proper length, and no more, and to preserve the posterior tibial artery intact,