163 Escharolics and Venesection. Should the sloughs adhere after the inflammation has abated, warm stimulating ointments, and sometimes weak solutions of the nitrate of silver, or of the mineral and vegetable acids, may be had recourse to. 169. To Mr. Blackadder must be attributed the introduction of the use of Fowler's solution of arsenic as an escharotic, in Nov., 1S13, while he was at Passages; it answered remarkably well in arresting the progress of the disease, and was after- wards found to be equally efficient in the hospitals at Antwerp. The only objection to it I am aware of is, that it did cause in some few cases slight symptoms of its poisonous effect having taken place on the bowels,apparently from absorption,— an inconvenience which might become a serious evil, and which caused a preference to be given to the mineral acids, which act equally well without incurring a similar risk of evil. Mr. Blackadder, stationed on the same coast, and within about forty miles of Dr. Boggie, at Bilbao, took a diametrically opposite view of this complaint to the Doctor; and believing the disease to be purely local in the first instance, considered venesection as almost always unnecessary, although he ad- mitted that cases may occur in which the abstraction " of a small quantity of blood would be likely to be attended with more good than harm; but certainly," he adds, "bloodletting is an operation which ought to be avoided as much as possible in gangrenous phagedseuaj particularly when the previous injury has been extensive, such as that of a penetrating gun-shot wound." Dr. Walker, who served at Bilbao at the same time, con- cludes an able report in the following terms:— " Lately, however, the disease put on a milder form, and the sloughiDg did not proceed with that rapidity that it did at first, nor was the fever so violent. And more lately still, since the setting-in of the cold weather, the type of the fever seems to have changed entirely, and to have put on the inflammatory type, so as to require strong evacuants, and even bleeding, which has been used with the greatest success by Staff-surgeon Boggie, who has for a considerable time had the more imme- diate care of the patients of this description at the Cordeleria Hospital."