m Important Cases. and a half in circumference. The thigh was amputated by Mr. Guthrie on Saturday, the 27th, the bone being sawn through just below the trochanter. She suffered a good deal from pain after the operation. An opiate was administered and repeated, and she passed a good night. 28th.—The pulse, which previous to the operation was 80, had increased to 100; there is however little heat of skin, and she appears easy. Some aperient medicine and saline draughts to be given every four hours. Towards the evening, she vomited a quantity of bilious matter; pulse 120. Three grains of calomel, and one of opium, followed by the common aperient mixture, were ordered, and an enema. The region of the stomach, to which part pain was referred, is to have applied to it equal parts of ether and laudanum. Oct. 1st.—Better in all symptoms, but looking irritable and ill; no pain anywhere; no sickness; appetite good; pulse still quick. 8th—Two ligatures have come away; the wound looks well; the edges have nearly healed; eats meat, and with a good appetite. 9th.—Not so well; pulse 120; skin hot; feels ill; complains of pain in the other leg and thigh, which disturbed her rest. Was well purged, and the leg fomented; the pain was princi- pally felt in the calf and in the heel. 10th.—Pulse 130; tongue furred; vomiting again of bile; the pain in the thigh, extending upwards to the groin, and downwards to the heel is intolerable, particularly in the latter part; the thigh and leg much swelled, and tender to the touch, although without redness; the swelling elastic, yet yielding to the pressure of the finger, but not in any manner like an cedematous limb. Mr. Guthrie pronounced the disease this morning to be inflammation of the veins, extending from the opposite side; but after a careful examination, and on pressure, no pain was felt in the course of the iliac vessels of that side, and the stump looked well, save at one small point corresponding to the termination of the femoral vein. 17th.—The symptoms continued nearly the same during the week, the sickness of stomach and purging of bilious matter abating at intervals.