576 Illustrative Cases. dicatiug that the ball had passed between these parts, and a little foeces came from the posterior wound for three weeks. The pain and suffering were not great, and principally arose from retention of urine, requiring the use of the catheter, which was left in, and changed from time to time, until the urine flowed by the side of it, instead of through the wounds, which it did occasionally for some weeks in drops, but not in any quantity; after which the wounds gradually closed, and the man was sent to England cured. A soldier of the Cavalry of the King's German Legion was struck at the battle of Salamanca by a musket-ball, which entered just above the pubes, a little to the right side, and came out below on the opposite nates. The urine flowed readily through both wounds for the first three days, and he suffered from great pain and distress about the region of the bladder, from which he could not expel any urine, neither would it pass by either wound. I immediately introduced a catheter, drew off a moderate quantity of urine, and then fixed it in the bladder, desiring him to let off his urine every hour when awake. This he did, often leaving the stopper out at night. The urine flowed after a few days through the posterior wound, and then ceased. The catheter was washed from time to time, and was at last withdrawn, as the urine began to flow by the side of it, and the wound had finally closed when he left San Domingo Hospital. Captain Martin received a wound from a musket-ball at the siege of Cuidad Rodrigo; it entered just above the pubes, passed through the bladder and rectum, and came out behind, splintering the sacrum, the contents of both viscera being freely discharged through this opening. As he suffered but little inconvenience from the urine, very little of which passed by the urethra, this passage was not, in the first instance, in- terfered with. Inflammatory symptoms were kept within due bounds, the rectum was carefully washed out by emollient enemata, and his food rendered as light as possible. Under this treatment he gradually improved; the anterior wound first healed, and subsequently the posterior one, leaving him comparatively well, when he left me for Lisbon on his way to England.