Amputation of the Phalanges. 130 finger, or of two fingers, or even of one, should be borne in mind, and no part should be removed that can be saved, and appears likely to be of use. When cannon-shot, large splinters of shells, or grape-shot, have struck the hand, ampu- tation will often be necessary, but the foregoing precept should never be forgotten. A musket-ball fairly passing through the hand generally fractures two metacarpal bones, although a small ball may pass between them without breaking either. The wounds should be enlarged, and the broken ends of the bones sawn off, or the splinters removed, and the points of bone smoothed off, the tendons to be carefully preserved, and vigorous anti- phlogistic measures adopted. The tendency to tetanus or trismus will be best obviated by such measures, the incisions when necessary, being made in the direction of the bones and tendons. Any haemorrhage which can ensue will be readily commanded by ligature, by torsion of the vessel, or by a small, graduated compress and bandage, when these are inapplicable. 128. When one or more fingers are destroyed, and the metacarpal bones injured, they are to be sawn or cut off, but not removed at the carpus, although an opening into the joint of the carpus will generally do well, if skin can be saved to cover it. In all cases of amputation of one or more fingers, the metacarpal bones, if injured, should be left as long as possible, and particularly that of the index-finger, when the thumb remains. In all cases it is better, if possible, to leave the heads of the metacarpal bones in their places, rather than open into the joint of the carpus, if it can be avoided. If the articulating heads must come out, a strong, thin scalpel is to be pushed in between the bones, the ligaments cut through above, below, and at the sides, and care should be taken, in removing one or two of these bones, not to dislocate the others, and the joint should be covered by a flap or flaps made for the purpose, the sides of the remaining fingers being covered in a similar manner. This succeeds admirably, when the two outer bones and fingers only are taken away. 129. The phalanges of the fingers may be removed by making a flap from the upper or under part, or from both, or from the