Syni2}toms of the second stage of Concussion. 295 re-establishment of the natural functions of respiration and of the circulation begins, must always be uncertain. 248. The termination of the first and the commencement of the second or really inflammatory stage, or that tending to recovery, is marked on dissection by the vessels of the brain and of its membranes being full of blood, and showing those appearances which are indicative of inflammation. If the patient is to recover, the stupefaction, or assoupissement, con- tinues, although a greater degree of sensibility prevails; the pulse becomes regular, if it were not so before; the skin is hotter than natural; the patient can often be induced to show his tongue, which is white, and to answer shortly, and tell where he feels pain, although he often answers incor- rectly; he can sometimes put out his hand and help himself, and occasionally even get out of hed. He usually turns to avoid the light, and the pupils are for the most part contracted; but no reliance can be placed on the state of the pupils at this period of the complaint} both are sometimes dilated, or one is dilated and the other contracted, sometimes dilating on the admission of light, sometimes contracting; or they may not be in the least changed until shortly before death. An alteration from the ordinary state of the pupils does not prove the absence or presence of any serious general injury, but only that a particular part of the brain has been more or less affected. The breathing at this period is free, and not in the least noisy or stertorous, unless the concussion be complicated with irritation occurring from lesion of the brain or its mem- branes, or of the medulla oblongata. The patient may remain in this state without any sensible alteration for several days, or he may, as is more commonly the case when restoration to' health is to follow, recover his speech as well as his general sensibility; nevertheless he frequently speaks more or less incoherently, mutters to himself as if thinking of something, and wanders at night, becoming even delirious, and requiring restraint to keep him in bed. Inflammation of the brain is now fully established and must be subdued. It is at or about this period that other symptoms occur, which are frequently enu- merated as those indicative of concussion—it should be added, of concussion in its latter stage. The pulse becomes quicker]