Important Cases. 63 16th: Was delirious during the night; vomited frequently; became insensible at the hour when the paroxysm of inter- mittent fever was expected to return; and died in the evening. On opening the chest, the lungs were found adhering to the pleurae costales in several places, and were hepatized; a quantity of serum and lymph was contained in the left pleura, so as to compress the lung, in which there was a small abscess. The liver was twice the natural size. J. Lomax, of the Guards, was wounded at Waterloo, suffered amputation of the right arm on the 23rd August, and arrived at the General Hospital, Colchester, on the 27th August, in a state of high fever, and unable to give any dis- tinct account of himself. He had had the ague, he said, for many days, which left him for a short time, but returned when on board ship; that on the 25th he was attacked by pain in the side, which was very severe on the 26th, on which day a blister was applied, which greatly relieved him. The stump had an unhealthy appearance, the edges of the wound evincing a disposition to separate. On the 28th he was free from pain; fever unabated, with a tendency to delirium. He sunk rapidly on the 30th, and died on the 31st, notwithstanding the use of the most powerful stimuli. A quantity of serum was found on dissection on the left side of the chest, and the pleura pulmonalis on both sides was covered with a thick layer of coagulable lymph. The pericardium was distended with fluid. The liver was enormously enlarged, pushing up the diaphragm, and displacing the lung, having in its substance a large abscess containing at least a quart of pus. The stump did not exhibit any peculiar appearance. O. Sweeney, 90th Regiment, aged nineteen, was wounded in the hand on the 18th of June, 1815, and taken to Brussels. On the 5th of July, he left for England, and arrived at Col- chester on the 14th. The wound shortly assumed an unhealthy appearance; haemorrhage took place, and the arm was ampu- tated on the 30th. The day after, he had severe rigors for fifteen minutes, followed by fever. The next day, he was better, and appeared to be doing well until the 6th of August, when fever recurred. Stump quite healthy in appearance. On the 7th, he was attacked by vomiting and purging,