123 Cases. This operation would not be so easy of execution as is sup- posed in cases in which the head and neck of the humerus are broken from the shaft; and would be very difficult of execution in old cases in which the soft parts are so hardened and impacted as to admit of little or no motion. 118. Excision of the head of the humerus is not to be done in every instance of compound fracture of that part, as the following cases will show:— Lieutenant Madden, 52nd Regiment, was wounded at the assault of Badajos in 1812, by a musket-ball, which fractured the head of the humerus, and lodged in it. The broken pieces were from time to time removed by incisions, together with the ball, and he ultimately preserved a very serviceable arm. Robert Masters, 40 th Regiment, was wounded at the battle of Toulouse, on the 12th of April, 1814, by a musket-ball in the right shoulder, which lodged in the head of the bone. Shown to me a few days afterwards as a case for amputation at the shoulder-joint, I directed the excision of the head of the bone as soon as the parts became more quiescent. Under venesection, purgatives, leeches, the constant application of cold, with low diet, the high inflammatory symptoms which had supervened subsided, and six weeks after the acci- dent the ball, and part of the head of the humerus, were removed, after an incision had been made through the external parts for the purpose. Three months after the receipt of the injury, the man was sent to England, with no other incon- venience than that resulting from the loss of motion in the shoulder, which was stiff. The use of the fore-arm was pre- served, and a limited one of the upper arm, by moving the shoulder-bone on the trunk. Private Oxley, 23rd Regiment, was wounded at the battle of Toulouse, in April, 1814, by a musket-ball, which entered at the anterior edge of the deltoid muscle, passed across the head of the humerus, injuring it in its course, and went out near the posterior edge of the muscle, through which, at its middle part, the deficiency in the rotundity of the head of the humerus could be distinctly felt. Shown to me a few days afterwards as a slight, but peculiar wound, it was marked as a case for