544 Illustrative Cases. ordered for his dinner, and the greatest attention to personal cleanliness directed to be paid. 7th. — Strength slowly but gradually returning. The action of the large intestines is daily kept up by stimulating injections. 14th.—Progress to recovery satisfactory. The injections are daily repeated, and the discharge by the natural passage increases. The wound contracts and looks healthy. Is enabled to sit up, and has recovered his cheerfulness. 28th.—Still improving; ultimately recovered. The situation of the ball was never ascertained. A soldier, of la Jeune Garde Imperiale was struck by a ball, which entered to the right and a little below the umbilicus, and passed out on the left or opposite side, about two inches above the crest of the ilium. It was supposed to have passed along the canal of the great arch of the colon. Fcecal matter, much tinged with bile, passed by both openings. The symp- toms of inflammation were severe for the first few days, but gradually yielded to the means employed, when the bowels began to act regularly by the aid of mild injections, and the discharge from the wounds gradually lessened; the man was much reduced, but otherwise in good health, and was sent to France from Brussels nearly well. A soldier, of the third division of infantry, was wounded during the assault of Ciudad Rodrigo, by a ball which entered and lodged in the left side of the back, about midway between the spine and a line drawn to the upper part of the crest of the ilium, from which opening the contents of the bowel were discharged. Left among the dead, and those who were supposed to be dying, at the field hospital, in the rear of the trenches, I sent him, with all those of different corps who were wounded, to my own hospital at Aldea Gallega, some ten miles off. Here, under a sufficiently vigorous treatment, of which bleeding, starvation, and quietude were the promi- nent features, he gradually recovered. On the fifth day the ball passed per anum, and on two or three different occasions afterwards, portions of his coat, flannel-shirt, and breeches. Foecal matter passed readily through the wound, whilst the bowels were gently solicited by common injections for some