Operation. 474 they cover the longissimus dorsi, or the long spinal muscular mass alluded to, its edge becomes apparent, and from this point the latissimus and the serratus are to be further divided downwards. The external intercostal muscle being thus exposed, its fibres should be scratched through or separated, in the middle of the interspace between the ribs, which can now be seen as well as felt. A director should be introduced below the muscle, on which it may be carefully cut through, as well as any fibres of the internal iutercostal muscle, which may extend as far as the wound thus made. The pleura will then be exposed, and if the cavity of the chest contain fluid iu any quantity, it can scarcely fail to project in such a manner as to convey to the finger the assurance of its being beneath. An opening may then be carefully made into it, at the upper part of the incision close to the external vertical fibres of the spinal mass of muscles, at the moment of inspiration, and on the existence of fluid being ascertained by its discharge, the opening should be enlarged by a director previously introduced under the pleura, the patient being desired to draw a full breath at the time, in order that the diaphragm may descend as low as possible. If there should not be any fluid in the chest, the diaphragm in ascend- ing during expiration, may be applied to the inside of the pleura lining the chest as high even as the fifth rib, counting from above, and might easily be divided with the pleura, if great care were not taken to make the opening during the process of inspiration. In all cases of wounds of the chest, in which auscultation points out the presence of a ball rolling loose on the diaphragm, this operation should be performed for its removal, and may save the life of the sufferer. It would, perhaps, have done so in the case of Sir Robert Crawford. At a later period the pre- sence of a foreign body perhaps can only be known by the sounds or defect of sounds which may be observed at the back part of the chest, in which the ball or other foreign bodies lodge, or become enveloped by matters confining them in that situation.