Case of Captain Prevost. All closes except under rare and particular circumstances; that it remains an opening during the rest of the life of the sufferer, ready at all times to give rise to a hernia, which may become strangulated and destroy the patient, unless relieved by an operation as yet unperformed, but to which attention is espe- cially directed. A soldier of the 29th Begiment was wounded at the battle of Talavera, and died in four days after the receipt of the ball, which went through the chest into the liver. I found, on ex- amining the body, an opening in the central part of the dia- phragm, of an oval shape, the edges smoothing off as if they were inclined to become round; this opening was nearly two inches long, evidently ready to allow either the stomach or intestines to pass through it on any exertion. Capt. Prevost, aide-de-camp to Sir E. Pakenham, was wounded by a musket-ball, on the 27th Sept. 1811, on the heights of Saca Parte. It penetrated the chest from behind, splintering the ninth and tenth ribs of the left side, and made its exit a little below and to the right of the xiphoid cartilage. A good deal of blood was lost from the posterior wound, but he did not spit up any. He was carried to Alfaiates, and there he threw up a small quantity of bloody matter by vomiting. The posterior wound was enlarged, and continued to discharge some blood, the intercostal artery being in all probability wounded. Sixteen ounces of blood were taken from the arm, giving great relief, and the bowels were opened by the sulphate of magnesia. Sept. 29th.—Bleeding to eighteen ounces; and on the 30th, bled again to thirty-two ounces, from which great relief was obtained; he fainted, however, on making a trifling exertion to relieve his bowels. Oct. 1st.—Accession of symptoms as yesterday, and relieved by bleeding in a similar manner; bowels open. 3rd.—The inflammatory symptoms recurred this morning, and were again removed by the abstraction of sixteen ounces of blood. Beef-tea. 5th.—Passed a sleepless night, and was evidently suffering from considerable internal mischief; wandered occasionally; pulse quick, 120, and small; felt very weak and desponding!