Ejects of Bleeding; Tartar Emetic; Mercury. 397 veins, the arteries must furnish it; and both temporal arteries have been opened with the best effect, when blood could not be obtained from the arm, or from the external jugular vein. 308. The effects of bleeding were of old found to be different under different circumstances, and in different climates. Asclepiades remarks that whilst phlebotomy was fatal at Rome and at Athens, it was beneficial in the Hellespont. Nevertheless, at a much later period, Baglivi says, "In Romano, phlebotomia est princeps remedium in pleuritide." The remedy first to be administered, and most to be de- pended upon in the first stage, is tartar emetic, which usually gives rise to vomiting, purging, and possibly to sweating, and should not be omitted, because such effects are produced in the first instance. After a few, perhaps three or four doses, the vomiting usually ceases, the stomach tolerates its intro- duction, and its gradual increase from six to nine, twelve, twenty, or more grains, in twenty-four hours, is often borne not only with impunity, but with great advantage. Vomiting and purging are not desirable, as the effects of tartar emetic are more rapid and beneficial, when they give rise to no par- ticular evacuation beyond that of general perspiration. The most valuable remark of Laennec on its use, is, " that by bleeding we almost always obtain a diminution of the fever, of the oppression, and of the bloody expectoration, so as to' lead the patients and the attendants to believe that recovery is about to take place; after a few hours, however, the un- favourable symptoms return with fresh vigour; and the same scene is renewed often five or six times after as many vene- sections. On the other hand, I can state that I have never witnessed these renewed attacks under the use of tartar emetic." He further says, that the same favourable results do not occur from its use in pleurisy, or in inflammation of serous membranes, as in pneumonia. 309. Mercury is a remedy of the greatest importance in serous inflammations, such as pleuritis, although of less value than tartar emetic in the first stage of pneumonia, than which it would appear to be more efficient in the later period of the stages of hepatization and infiltration, though some physicians M M