Aneurism of the Arch of the Aorta. 277 that position, in order to relax the parts, and admit of their being kept in apposition. This operation ought only to be performed in cases of aneu- rism of the subclavian artery, in which it is presumed that the disease extends as far as the external edge of the scalenus anticus muscle, but not more inwardly. The arteria innomi- nata has certainly been tied five, if not six times in vain, and in two or three other instances the attempt failed, the operator not succeeding in his object. In Dr. Mott's case the ligature came away on the fourteenth day, but the patient died from haemorrhage, the consequence of ulceration of the artery, on the twenty-sixth day after the operation. Dr. Graefe's patient also died from haemorrhage on the sixty-seventh day. It is evident, from these cases, that a man may live so long after the operation as to show that he does not die from the immediate effects of it, or from any that must necessarily take place. It is therefore possible, that if the operation be often repeated it may eventually be successful. 234. The left subclavian artery rises perpendicularly out of the chest like the innominata, but on a plane much posterior to it, so that at the part where the vertebral artery is given off, , which is about an inch and a half from the origin of the artery, it lies nearly an inch deeper from the surface than the vessel on the opposite side. It is covered by, or is more directly connected with, the important parts which are also in the vicinity of the right subclavian. The pleura adheres to it, and can scarcely avoid being torn in putting a ligature around it. The par vagum is parallel with and anterior to it. The internal jugular vein and the left vena innominata lie over it. The thoracic duct and oesophagus are connected with it; and the carotid artery is in front. So that with the most careful dissection it is not a very easy matter to place a ligature upon the ascending portion [of the left subclavian artery, without doing more mischief than is compatible with the life of the patient Aneurisms of the arch of the aorta have been sometimes known to appear so far beyond the outer edge of the scalenus anticus muscle, as to impress the surgeon with the idea that they arose from the subclavian artery, and that an operation B B