Illustrative Cases. 455 Regiment, were both shot through the chest, at the head of the regiment, at the successful assault of Badajoz; the wounds were as nearly similar as possible, from before directly back- wards. They were taken to the same hut, and treated alike with the same care by the late Mr. Boutflower, the surgeon of the regiment, with whom I saw them daily. The inflammatory symptoms ran high in both. In Major Gillies, a tough old Scotchman, they could not be subdued, and he died at the end of a few days of pleuro-pneumonia. Colonel Harcourt slowly recovered, and died Marquis d'Harcourt, near Windsor, more than twenty-five years afterwards, suffering little or no inconvenience from his chest, when I last saw him. Captain Cane, 23rd Fusiliers, was wounded at the affair of Saca Parte, in front of Alfaiates, in 1812, by a musket-ball, which struck him below and a little to the outside of the left nipple, fractured the rib, and entered the chest, giving rise to the sensation as if the ball had passed diagonally down- wards and backwards to the loins of the same side. He spat blood, and was very faint. The next day he could scarcely breathe, was in great pain, continued flushed and anxious- pulse 100. He was bled into a wash-hand basin until he' fainted, and every day afterwards, some days twice, to a less extent for ten days, and once again until syncope was induced on an accession of symptoms after an imprudence in taking a little wine, which nearly smothered him, he said. Some pieces of flannel shirt, of braces, coat, &c, were removed from the wound, and several portions of bone gradually followed together with a quantity of matter which continued to flow from May until the end of the following September, when the wound healed. On the 23rd Jan. 1821,1 had an opportunity of examining this gentleman. My report says, he is never free from a little pain in the loins, where the ball is supposed to be, and cannot take a full inspiration without pain in the chest- ex- pectorates more or less constantly, and occasionally a little blood, and about once in three or four months in half-con- gealed lumps. Cannot ride or take any exercise because it brings on the pain. The cicatrix shows a large deep hole, and the deficiency of rib is well marked. The side of