Hemorrhage from Sloughing Stumps. 67 in London, should study its use under Mr. Quekett at the College of Surgeons, to whose lectures they have the right of admission, and to whose kindness they will all soon feel greatly indebted. I am not aware that the writers referred to have added anything to the practical facts I had related so long before, which is much to be regretted. It is of little use, although it is a step in the right direction, to describe a disease, or even to show why and wherefore it destroys, unless a means of prevention or of cure can also be indicated. 64. In the irritable and sloughing state of stump alluded to, haemorrhages frequently take place from the small branches, or from the main trunks of the arteries, in consequence of ulceration; and it is not always easy to discover the bleeding vessel, or when discovered to secure it on the face of the stump ; for as the ulcerative process has not ceased, and the end of the artery which is to be secured is not sound, no healthy action can take place; the ligature very soon cuts its way through, and the haemorrhage returns as violently as before, or some other branch gives way; and under this succession of ligatures and haemorrhages the patient dies. Some surgeons have, in such cases, preferred cutting down upon the principal artery of the limb, in preference to per- forming another amputation, even when it is practicable; and they have sometimes succeeded in restraining the haemorrhage for a sufficient length of time to allow the stump to resume a more healthy action. This operation, although successful in some cases, will generally fail, and particularly if absolute rest cannot be obtained, when amputation will become necessary. The same objection of want of success may be made to amputation; and on a due comparison of the whole of the attending circumstances, the operation of tying the artery in most cases is to be preferred in the first instance, and if that prove unsuccessful, then recourse is to be had to amputation; but this practice is by no means to be followed indiscriminately. The artery ought to be secured with refer- ence to the mode of operating, as in aneurism, but the doctrines of this disease are not to be applied to it, because it is still a wounded vessel with an external opening. To obviate all difficulties, the part from which the bleeding