Balls penetrating the Brain. 357 Dr. Rogers relates the history of an excellent case; in which a young man of nineteen received a wound on the frontal bone, just above the centre of the left superciliary ridge, from the bursting of a gun on the 10th of July. It was not until the 4th of August that he discovered a piece of iron lodged within the head, in the bottom of the wound, (from which a considerable quantity of brain had come away,) which he extracted the next day. It proved to be the breech-pin of the gun, three inches in length, and three ounces in weight. By the tenth of December bis patient was perfectly cured. When a ball strikes the head obliquely, it may enter and pass out or lodge. Nearly all these cases die, but one occa- sionally escapes, and none should be allowed to die without assistance. When the entrance and exit of the ball are obvious, and not far distant from each other, the splinters of bone should be removed; and if the little bridge between the, openings should be injured, the whole should be taken away' by the straight saw; an operation which cannot, however, be necessary in the first instance, if the portion of bone be appa- rently sound. At. the battle of Talavera a soldier, of the 48th regiment was brought to me in a state of insensibility} 'he had received a musket-ball on the upper part of the right side of the frontal bone, where it had entered, and had evidently passed backwards; it could be followed by the probe rubbing against the bone fof near four inches. The scalp over this point was soft, as if blood were effused below; and on dividing it, a fracture was seen bulging rather Outwards.- The tre- phine was applied forthwith, and the bone removed,, together with the ball, which only wanted a little more impetus to have come through. The brain was injured, and the man died two days afterwards. A French grenadier was wounded at the battle of Salamanca by a musket-ball, which struck him on the right side of the head, penetrated the temporal muscle, and lodged in the bone beneath, giving rise to symptoms of compression. On dividing the parts, I iound that the ball had fractured and driven in a part of the temporal bone, one portion of the ball being above, the other below the broken bone. The upper half of the ball'