Fracture of the Base of the Cranium. 323 on injuries of the head. It is not so, however, with respect to a fracture of the base of the cranium from a blow on the vertex, or on the back part of the head; a kind of accident which occurs more frequently perhaps than any other in civil life, because persons who suffer from fractures of the skull do so more generally by falling from a height, or from being pitched on their heads, than by direct blows or other injuries. This accident principally depends on the superincumbent weight of the body, pressing on the unsupported flat and thin base of the skull, and is but little connected with the unyield- ing nature of the spine; for it occurs to as great an extent in consequence of falls from a short distance without any impetus, as from falls from a great height. Some of the worst "cases take place by the sufferer having been thrown from the back of a horse by the sudden starting of the animal, without any running away. Although in these cases a fissure may often be traced to the foramen magnum, the great fracture is essen- tially distinct, extending from the petrous portions of the temporal bones on each side, across, and between the sphenoid bone and the os frontis, and even separating the edges of the coronal suture nearly to the opposite side. A noted gambler was thrown from his horse, and pitched on the top of his head at the door of the Westminster Hospital late at night; he was taken up insensible, and died shortly afterwards. The skull was fractured quite round from the vertex to the base, and from side to side, so that the fore and back parts might have been easily separated into halves if the soft parts had been removed. Fractures of the base of the cranium are generally fatal, but not always so; for some persons hve a considerable time afterwards, and appear to die from other causes; so that partial, if not perfect recovery is possible. H. Cochrane, forty-five years of age, fell a distance of twenty feet upon his head, and was taken up apparently lifeless, bleeding largely from the ears, nose, and mouth, but more particularly from the ears. He was seen within half an hour of the accident. He was then quite insensible; the surface of the body cold; pulse about 68, and very feeble; in three hours after the accident he was bled to sixteen ounces, when his