Treatment of a Punctured Intestine. 533 considerable extent. Few surgeons even then would like to enlarge the wound, to ascertain the fact, unless some con- siderable bleeding, or a discharge of fcecal matter pointed out the necessity for such an operation. When the wounded bowel protrudes, or the external opening is sufficiently large to enable the surgeon to see or feel the injury by the intro- duction of his finger, there should be no difficulty as to the mode of proceeding. 393. A puncture or cut, which is filled up by the mucous coat, so as to be apparently impervious to air, does not demand a ligature. An opening which does not appear to be so well filled up as to prevent air and fluids from passing through it, cannot usually be less than two lines in length, and should be treated by suture. When the opening is small, a tenaculum may be pushed through both the cut edges, and a small silk ligature passed around, below the tenaculum, so as to include the opening in a circle, a mode of proceeding I have adopted with success in wounds of the internal jugular vein, without impairing its continuity; or the opening may be closed by one, two, or more continuous stitches, made with a very fine needle and silk thread, cut off in both methods close to the bowel, the removal of which from the immediate vicinity of the ex- ternal wound is little to be apprehended under favourable circumstances. The threads or sutures will be carried into the cavity of the bowel, as has been already stated, if the person survive: and the external part of the wounded bowel will either adhere to the abdominal peritoneum, or to one or other of the neighbouring parts. When the intestine is more largely injured, in a longitudinal or transverse direction, or is completely divided as far as, or beyond the mesentery, the continuous suture is absolutely necessary. 394. When the abdomen has been penetrated, and consider- able bleeding takes place, but not from the intestine, it is necessary to look for the wounded vessel. When it comes from one of the mesenteric arteries, or from the epigastric, the wound is to be enlarged until the bleeding artery be exposed, when ligatures are to be placed on its divided ends if they both bleed, the external wound being accurately z z 2