35 Wounds by the Bayonet. It often occurs that a ball lodges and cannot be found, espe- cially where it has struck against a bone, and slanted off in a different direction. If the ball should lodge in the cellular tissue between two muscles, it often descends by its gravity to a considerable distance, and excites a low degree of irrita- tion,which slowly brings it to the surface, or terminates in ab- scess. Colonel Ross, of the Rifle Brigade, was wounded at the battle of Waterloo, by a musket-ball, whicb entered at the upper part of the arm and injured the bone. More than one surgeon had pointed out the way by which it had passed under the scapula and lodged itself in some of the muscles of the back. About a year afterwards, I extracted it close to the elbow, the ball lying at the bottom of an abscess, which was only brought near the surface by the use of flannel, and by desisting from all emollient applications. 21. A ball will frequently strike a bone, and lodge, without causing a fracture. It will even go through the lower part of the thigh-bone, between or a little above the condyles, merely splitting without separating it, and some balls have lodged in bones for years, with little inconvenience. It should never- theless be a general rule, not to allow a ball to remain in a bone, if it can be removed by any reasonable operation. The rule is not entirely devoid of exception. Lieut.-Colonel Du- maresq, aide-de-camp to the present Lord Strafford, was wounded at Waterloo by a ball which penetrated the right scapula, and lodged in a rib in the axilla. The thoracic in- flammation nearly cost him his life, but he ultimately quite recovered, and died many years afterwards of apoplexy. 22. When a bayonet is thrust into the body, it is a punc- tured wound, made by direct pressure; wben of little depth much inconvenience rarely ensues, and the part heals slowly, but surely, under the precaution of daily pressure. A punc- tured wound, extending to considerable depth, labours under disadvantages in proportion to the smallness of the instrument, and the differences of texture through which it passes. When the instrument is large, the opening made is in propertion, and does not afford so great an obstacle to the discharge of the fluids poured out or secreted as when the opening is small. Lance wounds are therefore less dangerous than those in-