436 Important question of Hazmorrliage. 332. The important question of hemorrhage, in cases of incised wounds admitting of being accurately closed, remains for con- sideration. In many instances, the quantity of blood effused is trifling, and in others, although greater.it is absorbed without being productive of evil. In a third class, the quantity extra- vasated is larger than can be absorbed, although it does not flow in an inconvenient or dangerous manner through the wound, and may ultimately become coagulated, and adherent to the diaphragm and spine in the angle between them, when the patient lies long on his back. In the worst cr most alarm- ing cases, the loss of blood is and has been so great that its suppression offers the only chance for the continuance of life. It is between these two last cases only that a difference of opinion exists as to the treatment to be pursued; one party desiring that the effused blood, if moderate in quantity, should be allowed to discharge itself, the wound being kept open; the other, that under all circumstances, whether the quantity of blood poured out be small or great, the wound should be closed, and the result awaited. The right course is, I appre- hend, to remove all the blood which can be evacuated by position, provided it can be done without danger to the patient, rather than to allow it to fill the chest; but as the bleeding vessel in the lung cannot readily be got at, if seen, nor be secured by ligature with advantage, it is advisable, if the bleeding continue, to close the wound, and allow the cavity of the pleura to be filled, until the lung shall be sufficiently com- pressed to cause the haemorrhage to cease, if the person survive so long. The first object is to save life; after that, if time be given, the next will be to relieve the loaded cavity. After the wound has been closed, and the patient has so far recovered, that reaction has begun to take place, it may be concluded that the bleeding has ceased. The chest should then be most carefully auscultated from day to day, so that its respiratory state may be known, particularly with regard to the increase of effusion, which will then be serous. This will not take place until after the third, and not perhaps before the fifth or sixth day, in any considerable quantity; when, if it should have occurred, the wound should be re- opened, or another opening made at the most convenient place