Wounds of the Vertebral Artery. 242 part of the neck, on a level with the left side of the cricoid cartilage. The haemorrhage had been considerable when the surgeons, Messrs. Maisonneuve and Favrot, arrived, though the wound looked at first as if the ball had not penetrated deeply. There were pain and numbness of the left arm; respiration, voice, and deglutition, were however normal. On examining with the probe it was found that the cricoid cartilage had been bared, and that the ball had then run from above downwards, leaving the trachea and oesophagus inter- nally, and the common carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve externally, and was impacted in the body of the sixth cervical vertebra, where it could easily be felt. Some attempts at extraction were made, but they caused so much pain that they were given up. The patient was bled six times in four days, and had large doses of opium; she improved considerably under this treatment, and the inflammation was very moderate. On the eighth day haemorrhage occurred at the wound, and again on the ninth, but it stopped of itself on each occa- sion. "When however it broke out a third time, the surgeons proceeded at once to search for the bleeding vessel. An incision about three inches long was made on the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, a little external to the wound inflicted by the ball; the carotid sheath was then brought into view, and the vessels were found intact. The cricoid cartilage and the first rings of the trachea were after- wards seen to have been grazed by the ball, which was found implanted in the body of the sixth cervical vertebra, whence it was easily extracted. Severe haemorrhage ensued imme- diately upon the removal of the ball, the blood seeming to proceed from the vertebral artery, which appeared to have been wounded within the canal formed by the foramina of the transverse processes. By placing the finger on the hole left by the ball, the orifice whence the blood issued was distinctly seen; forceps were applied to it, and held firmly for a little while to arrest the hasmorrhage. An aneurismal needle, with a very small curve, was then made to carry a double thread behind the vessel. One of these was used to tie the artery above, and the other below the aperture whence the blood issued.