Paralysis of the Opposite Side to the Injury. 311 toes or fingers, when the limbs are apparently motionless; pricking them gently with a pin will often give rise to con- vulsive startings and tremblings of all the muscles of the extremity when tickling fails, showing that the capability to move the part remains, although the will to do so is wanting. The leg or arm is sometimes drawn towards the body when separated from it; it more often falls from the hand as if it belonged to the body of a dead person; the muscles are occasionally more stiff and rigid, and some power of motion remains, although but little of sensation; sometimes sensation is perfect wben motion is lost, and sensation may be lost on one side and motion on the other. The urine at first retained may ultimately pass involuntarily, as well as the feces; never- theless, irritating the verge of the anus will excite motion and contraction in the sphincter ani, if the functions of the spinal cord are not destroyed. The action of the involuntary muscles is little impaired in general, and the secretions are but slightly affected; when it is otherwise, the injury must have extended to the ganglionic system, and the whole of the nervous centres must be materially implicated. The loss of motion, or of the power of moving parts of the body, is either perfect or imperfect according to the degree of injury which has been inflicted, varying from a sense of feeble- ness to an almost utter incapability of moving the part. It is accompanied in general by defective sensation, or numbness, or by the complete loss of sensation, and of the power of resist- ing heat and cold: the whole side, or one extremity, or a part only of an extremity, may be affected, and not the whole. The mischief which gives rise to the loss of motion usually occurs on the side of the brain opposite to that part of the body which is paralytic. This was known and stated by Hippocrates, and the subject has been pursued to the most complete demonstra- tion by modern anatomists. The pathological proofs are not less complete. Desault and Bichat were by no means satisfied that the paralysis which followed an injury always took place on the opposite side- and some pathologists since their time, while admitting the fact have shown that there may be exceptions. It is acknow- ledged, although it is not clearly and satisfactorily ac-