from the third to the ninth day 435 A piquet of Portuguese infantry being surprised by a sudden rush of French cavalry from the town, during the first unsuc- cessful siege of Badajoz, were nearly all sabred. The sur- vivors were brought to me. Two had been run through one side of the chest, and one through both sides; the last died a few minutes after I saw him. The other two seemed to be nearly in a similar situation from loss of blood by the mouth and from the wounds. These were immediately closed by stitches, compresses, and adhesive plasters. A little hot brandy-and-water was given to each, and they were laid aside without hope of recovery. They did not, however, die; the breathing became more easy, the distress less, and the pulse more distinct; reaction after a time took place. The next morning, the siege being abandoned, they were removed to Elvas, where I afterwards heard they were doing well. A soldier of the third division of infantry, under the com- mand of Sir James Kempt, was wounded at Waterloo, by a straight sword or sabre, which penetrated the left side of the chest. He fell, and lost a considerable quantity of blood from the mouth as well as from the wound, and was supposed to be dying. On showing some signs of life, the wound was covered by a part of his shirt, and on his arrival at the Eliza- beth hospital in Brussels, four days afterwards, it was closed. On the ninth day, when my attention was drawn to him he was sitting up in great distress, from difficulty of breathing, his hand pressed upon the wounded part, the cicatrix of which was red, swollen, and projecting. I recommended the assistant-surgeon in charge to open this with an abscess lancet, which he did, giving vent to a very large quantity of bloody and purulent matter, to the great relief of the patient for several days, although he did not ultimately recover The advantage derived from the closure of the wounds in these cases was manifest. It relieved the breathing, and caused the haemorrhage to cease, aided, in all probability, bv the exhausted state of the patients. The relief to the breath ing was at the moment the most essential point, the wounds of entrance being near two inches long, and the free admis- sion of air quite unopposed; the lung had receded from the opening.