When should Amputation be performed ? 53 without being fully aware of it, or, if aware of it, that it did not cause much alarm—in fact, that it did not materially signify as to his apprehension, whether the ball took off his limb or the tail of his coat, or only grazed his breeches. An instance of this kind has not fallen under my observation. 47. A surgeon on the field of battle can rarely have a patient brought to him, requiring amputation, under less time than from a quarter to half an hour; a surgeon in a ship may see his patient in less than five minutes after the receipt of the injury; and to the surgeons of the navy we must hereafter defer for their testimony as to the absence or presence of any constitutional alarm and shock; and if they occur, to what degree do they follow immediately after the receipt of such injury. The question must not be encumbered and mystified by a reference to all sorts of amputations after all sorts of in- juries, but to the one especial injury—viz. that of the upper bxdf of the thigh. 48. My experience, which may be erroneous, like everything human, has taught me, that when a thigh is torn or nearly torn off, by a cannon-shot, there is always more or less loss of blood, suddenly discharged, and which soon ceases in death, or in a state approaching to syncope. When the great artery has been torn, this fainting saves life, for an artery of the magnitude of the common femoral does not close its canal by retracting and contracting, as a smaller vessel does; it can only diminish it; and the formation of an external coagulum is necessary to preserve life, which the shock, alarm, and fainting, by taking off the force of the circulation, aid in forming; and without which the patient would bleed to death. An ampu- tation, in this state of extreme depression, might destroy life. 49. If the cannon-shot, or other instrument capable of crushing the upper part of a thigh, should not divide the principal artery, and the sufferer should not bleed, it is possible he may be in the state alluded to, in which the patient, for he may not be called sufferer, is said to be just as composed as if he had only lost a portion of his breeches. Nevertheless few have seen a man lose even a piece of his breeches by a cannon-shot, without perceiving that he was indisputably frightened. p 2