418 Illustrative Cases. both of a very foetid character; the canula becoming ob- structed, a larger one was then passed through the opening, but not more than half an ounce of pils escaped; it was then withdrawn, and found to be blocked up by what appeared to be disintegrated lung. Being greatly relieved, no further attempts at evacuating the fluid were then made. At night, during a paroxysm of coughing, six ounces of foetid pus escaped by the opening, after which he felt relieved. A second gush of sanious fluid, to the amount of five ounces, containing small masses of sloughing membrane, subsequently took place. Cavernous respiration at the upper half of the lung, mixed with gurgling and metallic tinkling. Expectora- tion muco-purulent and offensive. 21st.—Has somewhat improved; but suffers from accessions of fever towards evening, and perspires very profusely during the night; the cough is less frequent, and he expectorates freely, the sputa being of a purulent foetid character. Scarcely any discharge from the side. Nov. oth.—Has remained in nearly the same condition until yesterday, when he ceased to expectorate, and has since become much worse; his skin is now intensely hot; face flushed; tongue brown and coated; pulse jerking, but feeble and fre- quent; the opening in the chest has quite healed. A second opening was now made about an inch external to the former one, and a canula introduced, but not more than one ounce of pus escaped, the instrument becoming blocked up by portions of sloughing tissue; during a paroxysm of coughing, which occurred a few hours afterwards, several ounces of foetid sanguineous pus were forced through the wound. 16th.—Since the last report he has been slowly sinking- is emaciated to an extreme degree. The wound originally produced by the pistol-ball, as well as those made by the trocar, have become fistulous, so that during respiration the air passes into the chest, and is expelled with as much free- dom as that passing by the trocar. Expectoration has con- tinued very copious, about a pint and a half having been passed in each twelve hours; large sloughs have formed upon the nates and hips, his intellect wanders, and he has frequent syncope—Died on the 5th of December.