485 Endocardial and Exocardial Sounds. almost imperceptible. It is perhaps more observable when the body is turned on the right side, but decidedly more so when it is turned on the left. A clearer sound proceeds from a thin, and a duller sound from a thick heart; a sound of greater extent from a large heart, and a sound of less extent from a small one. A more forcible impulse is given by a thick heart, and one more feeble by a thin one; the impulse is conveyed to a longer distance from a small heart. From a clearer sound we believe in the probability of an attenuated heart, but we argue its certainty from a clearer sound joined with a. weaker impulse. A stronger impulse denotes the probability of an hypertrophied heart, but we argue its certainty from a stronger impulse with a diminished sound. The terms endocardial and exocardial are used to designate the alterations which take place in the sounds of the heart under disease: endocardial when they occur within the heart, and exocardial when they take place upon its surface. The en- docardial murmur of disease, or bellows-sound, takes the place of, and is substituted in certain cases for, the first or second, or even for both the healthy or normal sounds. The exocardial murmur of disease is heard with the normal sounds, but con- fusing and overpowering, sometimes overwhelming them by its rubbing or crumpling noise. The natural sounds exist, although rendered imperceptible by the greater distinctness and nearer approach of the unnatural or unhealthy ones. The heart apart from the pericardium never moves without a sound; the pericardium apart from the heart never gives out one. Under disease the heart gives out the natural sound, diminished, exaggerated, or modifiod, or it may be totally altered. The sounds given out by a diseased pericardium must always be new, (there being no old ones,) and are described as rubbing, or to-and-fro sounds. The pleura when diseased, being a serous structure, like tho inner membrane of the peri- cardium, gives out less marked but somewhat similar sounds, (the "frottement" of the French,) in particular stages of disease. The alterations in the ordinary sounds constituting the endocardial murmurs of the heart heard under disease, depend t t 2