410 Treatment. by diet, &c; and if a tube have been introduced, it should be removed. The propriety of injecting stimulating or even simple fluids into the cavity of the chest has been often advocated, and as frequently repudiated. Warm water or milk-and-water is, perhaps, alone admissible, and that only when there seems to be an adventitious cause keeping up the irritation, which may perhaps be brought to the opening by the sudden ab- straction of the injection. Pieces of cloth and bits of exfoliated bone have been floated out by throwing in an injection of tepid milk-and-water. The opening, in a case of this kind, should be made between the eleventh and twelfth ribs behind. Dr. Wendelstadt, of Hersfield, in the year 1810, and in the twenty-third year of his age, suffered an attack of pleurisy, which became chronic, and ended in effusion. After severe suffering for six months, he was able to attend to his profes- sional duties. The ribs of the right side protruded, but the intercostal spaces did not; the whole side was motionless on respiration taking place. The circumference of the chest continued to increase, and fluctuation within became evident on succussion. In June, 1819, having undergone another attack of pleurisy, he submitted to the operation for empyema, as offering some hope of preserving life. When a pint of fluid had been discharged, the wound was closed, and he experienced great relief. The next day a third of a quart was taken away twice in the day, and on the third day as much more; but he thought this was too much, as he became greatly exhausted, and feared that suffocation was impending. He was recovered by stimulants. On the fourth day the fluid was thicker in consistence, and foetid, and continued more or less so for a fortnight. It was then allowed to flow as it would at each dressing. Astringent injections were used for six weeks, but were then abandoned, and he gradually recovered his strength. Thirteen yfears afterwards, in 1830, the wound was still open, discharging twice a day, sometimes only half a drachm, some- times three or four ounces daily. The right side had alto- gether shrunk, and did not move on inspiration; he had no cough, and was otherwise in good health; a piece of a rib