Suppression of Hcemorrhage by Natural Means. 189 that supposed to be derived. from the formation of an ex- ternal coagulum, the bouchon of the French. 184. When the femoral artery has been fairly divided in the lower part of the thigh, the patient has, in almost all the cases which have come under observation, either died without assistance, or the haemorrhage has ceased spontaneously. Having been thus arrested for twelve hours, the efforts of nature are usually sufficient to prevent its return from the upper, although not from the lower end of the vessel; but then it is of venous and not of arterial colour—a fact I first demonstrated, and which is now acknowledged to be of the greatest import- ance. The great evil to be dreaded in such cases, is not from haemorrhage from the upper end of the divided artery, but from the lower, and from mortification of the foot. The upper end of an artery retracts on being divided, and this retraction is accompanied by a contraction of the cut extremity of the vessel, which assumes the shape of the neck of a French wine-bottle or Florence oil-flask. The contrac- tion is confined in the first instance to its very extremity, so that the barrier opposing the flow of blood is formed by this part alone. The contraction goes on, however, increasing for the space of an inch, which is usually filled up with an internal coagulum, of a round pyramidal shape, adhering firmly to the contracted end of the artery, loose at its apex, and extending frequently as far as the first collateral branch, but rarely under any circumstances beyond two inches; the very orifice of the artery on the outside being in a few days covered by a layer of a yellowish green-coloured substance or fibrin, which indicates in a remarkable manner its situation. Some of these processes are continued even after the external wound has healed; the artery goes on diminishing and contracting as far as it is useless, so that of three or four inches, from one to two may be impervious, the remainder being contracted, although still permeable by a probe. An accompanying nerve where there is one, would do the reverse, the cut extremity would be enlarged or bulbous, gradually diminishing as it is traced upwards, until it becomes of its proper size. The processes adopted by nature for closing the lower end of a divided artery of the size of the femoral at the