60 Inflammation of the Veins. I have endeavoured, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer says of Lord George Bentiuck, to preserve for them the chastity of their honour. 63. Mr. Hunter, in 1793, described the appearances and the fatal results of inflammation of the veins, as a conse- quence of injuries inflicted on the surrounding parts, but I apprehend 1 was the first person to point out the prevalence of this complaint after secondary amputation, and its intimate connexion with certain low inflammatory attacks, attended by destructive purulent depositions, particularly in the chest, and their more chronic deposit in other parts. Mr. Rose, of the Guards, published some observations in the fourteenth volume of the Medical and Chirurgical Transactions, in 1828, con- firming -the remarks made by me in print thirteen years before, but without referring to them. Mr. Arnott has an able paper on the subject in the fifteenth volume. M. Sedillot thinks he has detected globules of pus in different parts of the circulating system in persons who had died of this disease. Mr. Henry Lee, 1850, one of the last English writers on the subject, professedly doubts the accuracy of the observation; and this point remains amongst others for further investigation. He admits, however, that in cases where, from long-continued disease, there have been repeated introductions of vitiated fluids into the circulation, the blood loses much of its coagu- lating power, which prevents the admission of purulent matter by the veins, by forming coagula with it in them, thus con- stituting he thinks the essential disease. When the coagu- lating power of the blood is thus lost, he thinks it possible that pus-globules may then be found circulating in the blood. Other late writers, and lastly Dr. Hughes Bennett, think these diseases are dependent on the introduction of a peculiar animal poison. Attention should be paid by the medical officers of the public service, whenever there is a war, to the state of the blood, and to the inner lining of the diseased veins uuder the microscope;* and all those gentlemen, when * The India Company have supplied the principal hospital of each presidency with one good microscope at least; and one of these, with a person who understands its use, should he attached to the principal hospital in the field during the war with the Burmese.