Ligature of the Femoral Artery. 262 must therefore be made without the information which the pulsation gives as to the precise situation of the artery, although a finger may be allowed to rest, or a mark be made on the part, beneath which the artery could be felt before the pressure was applied. The external incision should always be made longer or shorter in proportion to the depth at which the artery is situated. It should be at least one-third longer in the middle than at the upper part of the thigh; for whilst a long incision always facilitates the subsequent steps of the operation, it never does harm, unless it is out of all reasonable proportion. The centre of the incision should be if possible directly over that part of the artery on which it is intended to apply the ligature; but no inconvenience will arise from its being applied nearer its upper extremity. The patient being laid on his back, and properly supported, the knee is to be bent and turned outwards, by which the head of the femur will be rolled in the acetabulum, and the femoral artery will be more distinctly felt at the upper part of the thigh, below Poupart's ligament, lying on the psoas muscle, having the vein to the inside of it, and the anterior crural nerve about half an inch on its outside, passing between the psoas and iliacus muscles, although some branches soon approach the artery, and run down on the ex- ternal part of the sheath. The relative position of the parts having been duly considered, an incision is to be made directly in a line over the pulsating artery, and carried through the skin, cellular tissue, and superficial fascia, down to the deep-seated or fascia lata of the thigh. If an absorbent gland should be in the way, it must be turned aside or removed. The arteria profunda femoris is given off about two inches below Poupart's ligament, on the back part of and outside the femoral, whilst three or four small vessels spring from half an inch to an inch below it on the fore part, and one or other of these may be divided. They are the superficial epigastric, the superficial pudic, the superficial circumflex of the ilium, and probably an artery supplying the absorbent glands. If they bleed so as to be troublesome they must be secured, more particularly if the femoral artery is to be tied below them. The fascia lata is now to be divided, with that part of the fascia transversalis, which, descending beneath Poupart's ligament, forms the sheath of