319 Symptoms following a Fracture. a quantity of blood is often extravasated upon it. "When this does occur, the commotion or shock which occasioned the fracture, the separation of the dura mater, and the extravasa- tion, will generally have caused other more important, although less perceptible derangements. These show themselves after the lapse of a few days, by giving rise to inflammation of the brain or of its membranes, of which such patients more usually die, than of the separation of the dura mater, or of the ex- travasation of a small quanti ty of blood. The case is no longer one of simple fissure or fracture of the cranium, and the nature and severity of the symptoms which have supervened must regulate the practice to be pursued. 259. After the receipt of a severe blow, or of a guushot frac- ture of the head, which has not even stunned the person at the moment, he may walk to the surgeon, the wound be dressed, and he may converse with his fellows as if nothing had happened; yet in a short time he may become heavy, stupid, drowsy, and unwilling to move, with a slow pulse and a pallid' countenance. Inflammation has not yet had time to set in, and extravasation has not always taken place. If the loss of a moderate quantity of blood should relieve such a person, it shows that congestion had occurred, perhaps on the surface of the brain under the injured spot; on recovering from which by the unassisted efforts of nature, he would still be liable to inflammation. I have repeatedly seen a sharp bleeding from an incision made to allow a complete examination of the part in such a case, cause the restoration of the patient to his natural state. A return of untoward symptoms during the progress of the case does not always indicate essential mischief; they will be removed, if of a temporary nature, by a further moderate bleeding, by purgatives, and by greater restriction in diet, through irregularities in which, these secondary attacks most usually occur. If the loss of blood should not relieve the symptoms, the case is probably compli- cated by a separation of the dura mater, or by an extravasation having taken place between the dura mater and the bone, or even in or on the surface of the brain. 260. When a fracture takes place at the anterior inferiorangle of the parietal bone, or in any part of the course of the middle