State of Surgery before and since the Peninsular War. the precepts I have laid down, until you have reason, from your own observation, or from that of others, to doubt. A little further experience will then enable you to confirm what I have said, or to lay down, in turn, other principles, which, whilst they supersede mine, may be of more service to mankind." Since the termination of the war of 1815 by the battle of "Waterloo, there have been wars in various quarters of the globe. The different emeutes in Paris caused numbers of persons to be wounded, under the most favourable circum- stances for observation. The great hospitals of that metropolis, both civil and military, were open for their reception; they were under the care of some of the ablest surgeons in Europe; but I am not aware, from the reports they have as yet published, that they have added anything to the principles and practice I have recorded as resulting from the war in the Peninsula. The surgeons of France engaged in the war in Algeria have, however, added to the information we possessed on some points; and I have as great a satisfaction in acknow- ledging as I have had in making use of it. This acknowledg- ment must be followed by the expression of regret that neither the wars in Italy, nor in Hungary, nor in China, nor in India, have done more than confirm what was known before. The squabbles and the fightings between the Danes and Schleswigers have produced, contrary to what might have been expected, results more favourable to science; and I shall have great pleasure in referring to them in their proper places. The younger medical officers of the British army and navy, and of the service of the East India Company, will, I trust, pardon my reminding them that at the commencement of the present century the attainments of their seniors were not looked upon with that respect which perhaps they merited, but which has since been unanimously granted to their successors; and if they wish to retain, and even augment the consideration they now receive, they may not repose on the laurels won for them by their immediate predecessors. The Council of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, to show the respect they entertain for their services, have reserved in their draft Charter, now under the consideration of the Secretary of State,