Skieldemp's Operation. 489 divided with some fibres of the rectus and external oblique muscles, there remain only a portion of the peritoneum, called its false layer, above the pericardium, which can be seen after the division of all the intervening cellular tissue, projecting between the first and second digitations of the diaphragm. Into this the bistoury is to be entered, with the precaution of doing it with the edge turned upwards, and directed a little from right to left, to avoid the peritonaeum. The smallest portion possible of the anterior border of the diaphragm is next to be divided, where it is attached to the inner part of the cartilage of the seventh rib. The internal mammary artery is to the outside. The patient should be placed per- pendicularly, and supported on his bed, which inclines the anterior part and base of the pericardium to the fore-part of the chest." Skielderup recommends this operation to be done by first trepanning the sternum, a little below the spot where the cartilage of the fifth rib is united to that bone, at which part the periosteum lining it offers considerable resistance, and should not be divided by the trephine. Below this there is a triangular space formed by the separation of the layers of the mediastinum, free from cellular tissue, and tending a little more to the left than to the right. The apex of this triangle is opposite the fifth rib; its base touches the diaphragm. The bone having been removed, the patient is made to lean for- wards, when the projection of the pericardium will enable the operator to feel that a quantity of fluid is within, and to open it with safety. 360. J. Dierking, a stout, muscular man, of the third regiment of German Hussars, was wounded at the battle of "Waterloo by a lance which penetrated the chest between the fifth and sixth ribs, and was then withdrawn. Hefellfrom hishorse,lostagood deal of blood by the mouth, and some by the wound, and was carried to Brussels without any particular attention being drawn to the injury. His strength not being restored, M-hilst he suffered from palpitations of the heart, and other uneasy sensations in the chest, lie was sent to England to be invalided and in November, 1815, to the York Hospital, Chelsea, in consequence of an attack of pneumonia, of which he died in