Morbid Changes in the Lung. 392 permeabiliy to air, may take place in the typhoid pneumonia in twenty-four hours, and that it as suddenly seems to be re- moved, is hardly conclusive, as it shows merely that a thoroughly well-loaded lung ceases to be permeable to air, until a part of the load shall have been displaced. When the lung, inflamed to the second stage or that of hepatization, is about to be restored to a state of health, a slight crepitation or crackling begins again to be heard at the end of each inspiration; and as this increases, (the rhonchus crepitans redux of Laennec,) the bronchial respiration and voice gradually, or after a time, diminish, until they entirely disappear; whilst a mucous rale or rattle commences, the index of that free expectoration by which pneumonia usually terminates. In the third stage of morbid change or that of purulent infil- tration. The lung is of a lighter colour, from the intermixture of a new matter in its substance, although in the first degree it preserves its firmness and granular structure. The new secretion is of an opaque, straw, or yellow colour, and puri- form in its nature. This is discoverable more particularly in spots; but as the disease proceeds, it pervades the whole sub- stance of the lung, which becomes softer and more moist, and is easily broken down by the fingers, the granular structure having disappeared. It is more or less a purulent sort of sponge, in which all of the lung that can be perceived under a strong light may be resolved into small bloodvessels, bronchial tubes, and interlobular septa. These three degrees or stages of inflammation may be met with in the same lung, for the most part gradually inter- mingling one with the other. The lower part of the lung being ordinarily first affected, is usually the seat of the puru- lent infiltration of the third stage; whilst in the tubercular affection, which ends in phthisis, the disease commonly begins in the upper part. Resolution or recovery from even this, the last of the morbid changes which have been observed, may take place, although it is less likely to do so after idiopathic than trau- matic inflammation, in which the lung was previously healthy, and the constitution unimpaired.