373 Erysipelas of the Scalp. a well-regulated pressure will do much towards expediting the cure. 29-i. Erysipelas occurs in two forms—When the skin has the ordinary redness characteristic of the complaint; and when the colour of the skin is not altered, or is whiter than natural, but puffed, tense, and shining, the inflammation being seated beneath the tendinous expansion of the occipito-frontalis muscle. The general treatment should be regulated by the powers of the patient and the state of the constitution, (Aph. 24, page 38.) The local treatment of the first form essentially depends on puncturing the red and inflamed skin all over with the point of a lancet, assisting the flow of blood by warm fomentations. The punctures should be repeated if necessary. The second form is to be treated by incision,—one of the great improve- ments of the surgery of the Peninsular war. The scalp in such cases is in a state of general puffiness, causing the head to look considerably larger than usual, but without redness, and retains the impression of the finger. In- cisions are to be made in the scalp from two to four, or to six inches long, and united by others if necessary. The scalp will often be upwards of an inch in thickness, and filled with a fluid partly serous, partly purulent. The small arteries bleed freely, and should be allowed to do so as long as it may be desirable, when the hemorrhage should be stopped by pressure. The head should be fomented. The essential points are, to take off tension, and to allow the free discharge of any fluid which may be secreted. The moment the parts around a wound have become puffy, the surface of the wound changing from a red to a yellowish colour, with a thin discharge instead of good pus an incision should be made through them, and repeated if necessary. It relieves the tension, the irritative fever, and delirium which would follow, and which neither bleeding, purging, nor the other constitutional remedies which the state' of fever may indicate, will remove. If it should be neglected suppuration and sloughing will extend under the tendon of the occipito-frontalis, or the fascia of the temporal muscle and the greatest danger will be incurred. K K