498 Wounds of the Eye. protruding beyond the sclerotic coat should be cut off with scissors; but the eye, however injured, should not be re- moved unless detached in every direction, or destroyed. The treatment should be strictly antiphlogistic, in order to prevent suppuration of the eyeball, which may in general be effected, if too much injury have not been done to it, and if the treatment be sufficiently decided and well-continued. These observations apply to the nose and ears, and all parts not actually separated, (or, if separated, for a short time only,) should be replaced in the manner directed, and every attempt made to procure reunion. If this should fail, surgery may yet be able to yield assistance by replacing the loss by a piece of integument dislodged from the neighbouring parts—a pro- ceeding requiring a separate consideration. Injuries from musket-balls are often attended by considerable laceration, particularly when near the eye-lids; whenever this occurs, the parts likely to adhere should be brought together by suture, after any splinters of bone which may present them- selves, or can be seen or felt, have been removed from the holes made by the ball. If the bones should be broken, not splin- tered, they will frequently reunite under proper management. 366. Wounds of the eye from small shot are remediable when these small bodies lodge in the cornea or sclerotica, whence they may be removed by any sharp-pointed instrument. "When a shot, or piece of a copper cap is driven through the cornea into the iris, or lies in the anterior chamber, it should be re- moved by an incision to the extent of about one fourth or one- fifth of the cornea, near its junction with the sclerotica, but in these cases a cataract, if not amaurosis, frequently results. "When the shot passes through all the coats of the eye, it can neither be seen nor removed with safety; vision will be lost, much pain may be endured, and the eye will frequently be destroyed by suppuration, or by a gradual softening, and ultimate diminution in size. A contused wound from a large shot which only injures the coats of the eye, but does not per- forate them, will oftentimes be cured by a proper antiphlo- gistic treatment, which in all cases should be most strictly enforced, although the loss of sight is a frequent consequence after such injuries.