Fracture of the Inner Table. 329 an injury Laving been inflicted on the bone or pericranium; although it is not possible to doubt the fact of fracture of the' inner table having occurred, it is very desirable in a practical point of view not to bear it too strongly in mind: for if a sur- geon should be prepossessed with the idea that the inner table may be so readily fractured, and separated from the diploe placed between it, and the outer table, and thus cause irritation or pressure on the brain, few persons who had received a knock on the head, followed by any serious symptoms, without frac- ture or depression, would escape the trephine, and the worst practice would be again established. An operation should never then be performed under the expectation that such an accident may have happened, unless it be apparently required by the urgency of the symptoms indicating compression or irri- tation of the brain, which cannot be relieved by other means, and are about to prove fatal. It is by no means intended to imply by these remarks that a blow on the head will not frequently detach the dura mater from the inner table by rupturing its vessels, and thus give rise to compression or irritation of the brain from the effusion of blood or the formation of matter; or that the inner table may not from the same cause become diseased, and be the cause of ulterior mischief;, but these are altogether different states of injury, and require a different consideration. Mr. Deane, of Chatteris, in Cambridgeshire, had occasion to examine the head of a young man after death from a blow on the left side, just below the parietal protuberance, there being only a slight detachment of the pericranium, but no frac- ture. On removing the skull-cap, a very distinct fracture of the inner table, about three-quarters of an inch long, was seen corresponding to the external part injured, and extending outwardly as far as the diploe, but no further. The dura mater adhered firmly everywhere, except at this part, and for some distance around, a quantity of fluid blood being inter- posed between it and the bone. If this man had outlived the first symptoms, he could not have recovered without an opera- tion for the removal of the extravasated blood. 263. Severe effects do not always take place in such cases in the course of the first treatment, but occur afterwards; or the p p 2 f