Illustrative Cases. 316 depressed portions of bone were removed. The sickness, lowness of spirits, and general illness, immediately subsided, and the loss of power in the lower extremities gradually began to diminish, but he was not able to walk without assist- ance until the first week in August. On the 10th he arrived at Yarmouth, not having had a bad symptom after the de- pressed bone had been removed; and in the end of September he was discharged, able to walk well with the assistance of a stick. Mr. Keate has mentioned to me a case, in which the injury and the paralysis were apparently on the same, or the right side. The paralysis, although positive, was not so com- plete as to render the patient quite incapable of moving the arm and leg, which were frequently convulsed, although the convulsions, which were observable in both, were more marked on the opposite or left side. On examination after death, the most serious injury was found to be a fracture of the right parietal and temporal bones, extending to the petrous portion of the latter, and beyond it; this, with a rather large extravasation of blood under and in the course of the fracture, appeared to be sufficient not only to destroy life, but to have caused paralysis of the left side, which, how- ever, it did not do. Another extravasation, rather less in quantity, had, however, taken place under the upper and anterior portion of the left parietal bone, which enabled Mr. Keate fully to account for the paralysis which took place on the right side. According to the surgery of the French academi- cians of the beginning of the eighteenth century, this man would have been trephined or trepanned on the left side of the head in search of an extravasation ; but accident or chance alone could have led to the right spot, as it was by no means opposed to that on the other side. 257. A simple fissure or fracture of the skull is of no more im- portance than a fracture of any other bone in the body, unless it implicate the brain; it should be managed according to the ordinary principles of surgery. These principles, however, involve a treatment diametrically opposite to that practised by many surgeons almost unto the present day. If the integuments or scalp be divided, and the bone fissured,