Important Cases. 62 ficial veins; yet she was comparatively easy, although of a yellow hue, emaciated to the utmost, so as to represent a living skeleton; and in this-state, with a pulse at 130, craving for, and eating a whole mutton-chop, and more, at a time, with the most death-like countenance it is possible to con- ceive. These two cases mark the course, the symptoms, and the termination of inflammation of the veins after amputation, in as clear (if not a more clear) and distinct a manner as any which have been since published, and which they preceded; nevertheless, most authors of more modern date overlook the first, and some appear to avoid as much as possible noticing the second. 62. After the battle of Waterloo, the wounded of the same regiment were sent indiscriminately, some to Brussels, some to Antwerp. Those who remained at Brussels suffered princi- pally from inflammatory fever after amputation; those at Antwerp from the endemic fever prevailing at the time, beginning as an intermittent and ending often in typhus. The following are instances of endemic fever after secondary amputation, ending in sub-acute inflammation of the lungs and effusion into the chest:— Charles Brown, 92nd Regiment, forty years of age, at that time a healthy man, was wounded on the 18th June by two musket-balls in the right hand and wrist; and was admitted into the hospital at Antwerp on the 25th June. On the 5th July, the arm was swollen above the elbow; discharge profuse and foetid; countenance sallow aud dejected; fever. 8th: Arm amputated above the elbow. 9th, 10th, 11th: A little increase of fever. 12th: A paroxysm of intermittent, to which he had been subject occasionally since he had been at Walcheren. On removing the dressing, the edges of the stump were retorted; discharge copious and foetid; respiration hurried; thirst; skin hot; pulse 90; skin yellowish. 14th: Intermittent returned; head affected in consequence of long continuance in the hot bath. 15th: Complains to-day of fulness and pain in the left side; pulse 100; skin of a deeper tinge of yellow; a sense of suffocation when in the horizontal position. A blister was applied to the whole of the side of the chest.