58 Healthy and Unhealthy edition in 1820, and were insisted upon in the third, published June 18, 1827. 59. Near forty years have passed away since I stated my opinion, that inflammation of the veins is of two kinds—the adhesive or healthy, from which the sufferers usually recover, as in the cases of women labouring under the disease called phlegmasia dolens, and the irritative or unhealthy, occurring after operations; the disease being communicated by con- tinuity to the vein, rather perhaps than originating in it. I then said I did not believe that pus is carried from the inside of the vein to the general circulation, the office of the vein ceasing as a carrier of blood on the inflammation taking place in its internal tissue, although I admit that the blood in a vitiated state, from the commencing disease in the stump, or in the system, may have for some time passed along it into the general circulation. The inflammation thus commencing may extend upwards and downwards, and across to the oppo- site side of the body. I never saw it actually in the heart, the sufferers dying by the time it had reached as high as the diaphragm, and in general before it had got so far. 60. "When a person, after undergoing amputation, is about to suffer from unhealthy inflammation of the veins, the pulse quickens, and continues above 90, usually rising from 100 to 130. The stomach becomes irritable; there are frequent attacks of vomiting, generally of a bilious character, accom- panied by the usual symptoms of fever. A few days after the commencement of the complaint, there is usually a well- marked rigor, followed perhaps by others, but exacerbations and remissions of fever are marked. The skin gradually assumes a yellowish tinge, the perspiration is great, the bowels irregular, the pulse becomes weaker and more irritable, the emaciation is considerable, and the patient gradually sinks; or the febrile symptoms may subside, with the exception of the frequency of the pulse, the patient rallies a little, but whilst he says he is better, and the appetite even returns, the dete- rioration in appearance becomes more marked, more deathlike, and an accession of fever rapidly closes the scene. The stump- is often not more painful than under ordinary circumstances, neither is there any remarkable pain or tenderness in the course of the vessels.