164 Application of Mineral Acids. 170. " When this disease does not proceed rapidly, and is confined to the ulcerative form," Delpech says, " it may be removed by stimulant applications, such as vinegar, the vege- table and mineral acids, the Egyptian ointment, &c." Of these he prefers the vinegar applied on lint, after having rubbed or scraped off any false or pulpy membrane which appears to con- ceal the surface of the ulcer. " Some good effect," he adds, " has been observed from the careful application of powdered charcoal to the whole surface of the sore, which," he adds, " ought not to be in the gangrenous, or pulpy, or putrid state, but merely ulcerative or phagedsenic; and not even then, when this peculiar ulceration assumes a deeply hollowed-out form, rapidly filled with an abundant and tenacious discharge." Of constitutional treatment he evidently thinks little; and, whilst he admits the propriety and necessity of treating every accompanying state of fever, whether it be inflammatory, catarrhal, bilious, remittent, &c, by its appropriate means, he does not seem to think they have much influence on the local disease, although he firmly believes that the suppression of the local disease materially assists, and arrests, in a great measure, such constitutional symptoms as may be dependent on it, un- less influenced by some peculiarity of constitution. His prin- cipal local remedy was the hot iron or actual cautery applied to every part. He says, (page 86,) some surgeons of the Anglo-Portuguese army of Lord Wellington had assured him, that the mineral acids, the muriatic, nitric, and sulphuric, had been frequently employed in the British hospitals in Spain with success; and e particularly mentions M. Guthrie, Inspecteur au Service de SantS, as the person from whom he especially received Ins information; thus establishing the fact, that the use of the mineral acids in a dilute and concentrated state was known to, and had been essentially introduced into practice by, the sur- geons of the British army during the war in Spain-a fact which does not accord with the received opinions of the day, which do not give to them the precedence they are thus shown to have merited. 171. In India, Mr. Taylor, late surgeon 29th Regiment, now of the 80th, reports:—