245 Utter Insufficiency of one Ligature. the part injured, or two inches or so lower down, where the main trunk can he most easily got at by men of even very moderate anatomical knowledge ?—an operation which has frequently failed, although it has frequently succeeded, and is therefore mosf/approved. / am willing, for the present, to con- sider it nearly impracticable to tie the internal carotid safely from the outside of the neck, at the part wounded, without great anatomical knowledge, and to accept, for the moment, as the proper operation, the ligature of the common trunk of the carotid, at the distance of two or more inches, being the operation of Anel; but I venture to ask, with what fairness can this operation, thus done on one side of the neck, at the distance of two inches, the other side remaining sound, be considered similar to that of Mr. Hunter, done on the thigh for a wound in the calf of the leg, and at the distance of perhaps twenty inches, with all the intervening collateral branches perfectly sound ? It cannot be considered an analogous ope- ration, with propriety nor with fairness, nor ought the one to be compared with the other, although it is done, and thus the subject is mystified to all those who do not understand it thoroughly. It is because English surgeons miscall this the operation of Hunter, that French surgeons claim the operation of Hunter as that of Anel, and deny the priority of Hunter, although the two operations are essentially distinct. The operation of Anel for aneurism of the popliteal artery would be destructive; the operation of Hunter for a wound of the popli- teal artery would be equally so. This point must, however, be pressed further. Let ua suppose that the internal carotid has been opened by a wound inflicted through the mouth, and death is about to follow, unless the hole in the artery can be tied up. How is it to be done ? The Hunterian theorists say it is impracticable to tie the artery at the wounded part, and the primitive trunk must therefore be secured. Let us now suppose that this operation has been accom- plished, and the bleeding continues; what is to be done ? By the Hunterian and Anellian theorists there is nothing more to be done—the patient must die. By my theory there is another operation to be done, and the patient need not necessarily die. y 2