Inflammation of ihe Veins. 55 56. In the secondary period after great injuries, the areolar and muscular textures near the part injured are often un- healthy, the hones are in many instances inflamed internally, and their periosteal membranes deposit on the surrounding parts so much new ossific matter as frequently to envelope in a few days the ligatures on the vessels, and render them immovable, necrosis of the extremity of the bone following as a necessary consequence, thus protracting the cure for months. 57. Sloughing of the stump, accompanied by inflammation of the vein or veins leading to the cava, frequently takes place. This state of stump is often followed by purulent deposits in and upon the different viscera, and principally in the cavities of the chest. Where febrile diseases are endemic, they often prevail; the constitutional irritation is great; the stumps do not unite, or if apparently united, open out and slough, and frequently after a few days implicate the veins. 58. In the first edition of my work on Gun-shot "Wounds, and on the great operations of amputation, published in 1815,1 said, alluding to secondary operations:—"In the most favourable state of the stump, the diseased parts do not extend very deep; yet it is frequently communicated along the vein, which is found to contain pus, even as far as the vena cava." " When I have met with this appearance, I have always considered the vessels as participating in (not originating) the disease, which had existed some days, and thereby more quickly de- stroying the patient." I further said that after secondary amputations, the febrile irritation allayed by the operation, sometimes returns, and more or less rapidly cuts off the patient by an affection of some particular internal part or viscus, and especially of the lungs. " If it be the lungs, and they are most usually affected, the breathing becomes uneasy; there is little pain when the disease is compared with pneumonia or pleuritis; the cough is dry and not very troublesome; the pulse having been frequent, there is but little alteration; the attention of the surgeon is not suffi- ciently drawn by the symptoms to the state of the organ, and in a very short time all the symptoms are deteriorated; blisters are employed, perhaps bloodletting, but generally in