515 Incised Wounds of the Abdomen. his belly; but this I should not have credited, if it had not been for a bruise across the umbilical region, without actual abrasion of the integuments, on which account my attention was drawn to him on the fourth day after the injury, at the hospital of Aldea Gallega. He had been bled in consequence of complaining of pain, and because of the quickness of pulse and fever which had ensued, and which were attributed to irritation after amputation. The belly was swelled and tender underpressure. Calomel, antimony and opium, were given; he was bled again, and blisters were applied. The stump took on unhealthy action, and he died a fortnight after the receipt of the injury. The abdomen, when opened, was found to con- tain a quantity of opaque serous fluid, mixed with shreds of coagulable lymph. The omentum and intestines were of a dark colour, and loaded with blood, distinctly indicating the cLronic state of inflammation which had taken place. If the injury should not destroy the patient, but prove sufficient to give'rise, after several weeks, to effusion into the cavity, the fluid should be evacuated by the trocar. "When the fixed viscera are ruptured by severe blows, such as those received by falls or from canuon-shot, the suf- ferers usually die from haemorrhage, and not from inflamma- tion. The arm has been carried away, and the liver ruptured without almost a sign of injury to the skin of the abdomen, death ensuing from haemorrhage. 380. When an incised wound is made through the wall of the abdomen to any extent, except perhaps in the linea alba, the muscular parts are rarely found to unite in a more perfect manner than when they are ruptured and bruised. In those cases in which I have tied the common iliac artery by an incision on the face of the lateral part of the abdomen, the patients recovering afterwards; the incision through the mus- cular wall did not remain united, although union appeared to have taken place in the first instance, and a herniary protru- sion formed in the course of the greater part of the line of the wound. The constant occurrence of this non-union, except by skin and cellular membrane, led me to repudiate the introduction of ligatures through other parts, for the purpose of keeping