95 Amputation of the Leg. then divided, and the joint completely opened. The leg was afterwards bent backwards on the thigh, and the diseased portion of the femur was cleared, and removed with an ordi- nary amputating saw. The same method was followed with the tibia; the bones placed in juxtaposition, the flaps brought together by means of a few stitches, and the limb placed in a species of fracture-box. Water-dressing was applied. In the second case, I followed very nearly the same plan, with the exception of my first incisions, which were made something in a horse-shoe shape. In the third case, I removed a consider- able portion of integument, and, I conceive, with marked ad- vantage. In the two former cases, I think the cure was pro- tracted by preserving all the diseased external parts." 90. Amputation of the leg is performed in two ways—by the circular incision, and by two flaps, the circular incision being only applicable to the calf. In either way the stump should, if possible, be seven inches long, for the more conve- nient application of an artificial leg, which is now made with a socket to fit the stump, instead of resting against the bent knee, unless the stump be too short for its proper adaptation otherwise. The operation by the circular incision is performed in the thick part of the leg, and the bone is usually sawn through about four inches from the patella, that, when the stump is healed, there may be sufficient length of bone left to support with steadiness the weight of the body, and that greater faci- lity may be given to the motion of the leg, from the preserva- tion of the insertions of the flexor tendons. The most eligible place for the application of the tourniquet, when used, is about one-third of the length of the thigh from the knee, on the inside, where the artery perforates the tendon of the triceps muscle, and where it can be most conveniently compressed against the bone by a small firm pad, the instrument being on the outside, or opposite the pad; or the compress may be placed between the hamstring tendons, a little distance from the hollow behind the joint, the instrument itself being on the fore part of the thigh. In this method the pad must be thicker, and the compression is more painful, and not more secure. The surgeon should stand on the inside of the leg to be operated upon, that he may more readily saw the fibula at