562 Wounds of the Kidney. side, and to subdue all unnecessary inflammation by bleeding, leeching, absolute rest, and starvation. The application of warm fomentations where an oozing of blood may be expected to take place cannot be recommended, and cold should be substituted, if agreeable to the feelings of the patient. When the blow or wound does not cause the death of the individual by haemorrhage or acute inflammation, a chronic state of disease may supervene, which, if not duly combatted, will ultimately destroy him. The early administration of calomel and opium, and the repeated application of blisters, will in these cases, as well as in those of wounds of the liver, be of the greatest service. Effusion or suppuration may take place as well as in those cases which have been noticed, when other of the viscera have been injured; although instances of such terminations are not recorded, it does not follow that they have not taken place. 411. Wounds affecting the kidney have been less fatal than those of the spleen, although they are scarcely less dangerous, from the complications by which they are attended; the suc- cessful cases on record are not numerous, and the practice to be pursued can only be general. The results, when not fatal, have been for the most part unknown, from the patients either lingering on or recovering after they have been dis- charged from the service. I saw two cases of this nature after the battle of Waterloo. In one the ball had passed through the abdomen, entering a little below and to the left of the umbilicus, and coming out behind nearly opposite and close to the spine. No foecal matter was discharged from the front wound, but some came through the posterior one, accompanied by a small quantity of urine, indicating a lesion of the kidney or of the ureter at its upper part. The symptoms, at first severe, had subsided under proper treatment, and there was every probability that the sufferer would eventually recover, although I was unable to trace the case after the man left Brussels. In the other pain was principally felt in the testis, and the spermatic cord of the side injured. An officer was wounded on the right side on the 9th De- cember, 1813, the ball being cut out behind; his case was con- sidered hopeless. An hour afterwards, on being moved to