236 Illustrative Case. the fact of the inapplicability of the theory of aneurism to the treatment of a wounded artery—of the impropriety of placing a ligature on the subclavian artery above the clavicle, for a wound of the artery below it. Corporal W. Robinson, 48th Regiment, was wounded at the battle of Toulouse, by a piece of a shell, which rendered amputation of the right leg immediately necessary, and so injured the right arm as to cause its loss close to the shoulder-joint eighteen days afterwards. At the end of a month the ligatures had separated, and the wound was nearly healed, although a small abscess had formed on the inside, near where the upper part of the tendon of the pectoralis major had been separated from the bone. Sent to Plymouth, this little abscess formed again, and was opened on the 2nd of August, three months after the amputation. The next day blood flowed so impetuously from it, as to induce the surgeon to make an incision, and seek for the bleeding vessel, which could not be found. The late Staff-surgeon Dease, warned by the case of Serjeant Lillie, (page 194,) strongly objected to the subclavian artery being tied above the clavicle, and, true to the principle inculcated at Toulouse, advised the application of a ligature below the clavicle on a sound part of the artery, but as near as. possible to that which was diseased. The operation was done by the senior officer, Mr. Dowling, who carried an incision from the clavicle downwards through the integuments and great pectoral muscle, until the pectoralis minor was exposed. This was then divided, and a ligature placed beneath it on the artery where it was sound, and a short distance from the face of the stump, where it was diseased. The man reco- vered without further inconvenience. 202. In all those cases in which it has been supposed neces- sary to place a ligature on the artery above the clavicle, after a failure in the attempt to find the artery below it, the failure has occurred from the error committed in not dividing the integu- ments and great pectoral muscle directly across from the lower edge of the clavicle downwards. It is quite useless dividing these parts in the course of the fibres of the muscle, and the case of Robinson is the model on which all such operations should