451 Illustrative Case. aud heals, leaving merely a depression or cicatrix on the surface attached around or in part to the wall of the chest by adhesion. The track through the lung may he readily seen, in such cases after death; although during life it interferes so little with the respiratory murmur as not to be observable, unless by its greater distinctness from the thinness of the in- tervening parts. Mrs. M was wounded by a small pistol-ball, which entered on the right side from behind, between the seventh and eighth ribs, just under the arm when hanging down, and passed out in front over the cartilage of the sixth rib, more than an inch from the pit of the stomach. She had not spit blood, and the ear declared the lung to be pervious to air at the wounded part, which raised a hope that the ball might not have penetrated the cavity,although it might have injured the pleura. As she suffered great pain twenty-four hours after the injury, the breathing being oppressed, Mr. Adams bled her into a hand-basin, until about to faint. She lost nearly thirty ounces of blood, but her symptoms were quite relieved, so as to render any other bleeding during her treat- ment unnecessary. At the end of the third day, she spat a very little blood after removal in a carriage to another lodg- ing, and then gradually recovered. After four different stethoscopic investigations, I came to the conclusion that the ball had not struck the lung in the first instance, although the lung adhered to the pleura costalis, and suffered from some abrasion or ulceration at that point, which gave rise to the expectorated blood. These cases are instances of wounds of the upper part of the lung, which are in general more dangerous than those of the lower part, from the vessels being larger, and from the greater difficulty with which any extravasated blood or fluids can escape. They also prove that when blood is poured out in small quantity, it may be absorbed, but what that quantity may be is doubtful. 342. In cases in which the external opening or wound does not communicate freely with the cavity of the chest, the principal danger arises from the inflammation of the pleura ending in effusion, which, if not evacuated, leads to the loss of the