Illustrative Case of Lord Beaumont. 422 disturb; respiratory murmur not distinct at night; enema; calomel, opium, and twenty leeches. 20th.—At three in the morning, being greatly oppressed) thirty leeches were applied, and at eight o'clock twenty more, which quite relieved, but left him in a state of great ex- haustion, sick, and faint. A little arrowroot relieved the faintness ; discharge from the wound free and accompanied by air; bowels open. — Ten at night: Calomel, and forty minims of the solution of opium. 21st.—Eight a.m.: Has now, for the first time, a hope of life; pulse 112, soft; no pain; can turn on his side, but fears to hurt himself; wound discharges freely; has had a small piece of bread for the first time.—Four p.m. : Restless, but better; senna and sulphate of magnesia mixture.—Eight p.m. : Oppressed; pulse 120; twelve leeches; calomel, and thirty minims of the solution of opium, at night. 23rd.—Oppression at night relieved by six leeches; slept afterwards; breath slightly affected by the mercury, which was now omitted; ten grains of the compound extract of colocynth given at night, with thirty minims of the solution of opium. 25th.—Free from pain; breathes easily and without diffi- culty; can turn in bed with ease; slept well; the discharge from the wound is free; takes farinaceous food, oranges, tea, &c. He gradually improved until the 13th of March.— On the previous Friday, the 9th, he removed from Bond-street to Mount-street; and on the 13th, amused himself by washing all over in a small back room without a fire; caught cold, and acquired a troublesome cough, which was quieted on the 14th, at night, by opium.—On the 15th, a.m., it was evident that some mischief had been done; pulse 120; breathing difficult; was bedewed with a cold sweat; respiratory murmur indis- tinct on both sides; on the left, not heard below the fourth rib; although the whole side sounded sonorously, it evidently contained air, the tintement metallique being very remarkable. The wound having closed very much, and the distance to the left cavity of the pleura under the sternum being considerable, a piece of sponge tied around the eye of a small gum-elastic catheter was introduced, so as to enlarge the track of the