Injuries of Nerves. tion in the axilla, below the tuberosities of the humerus, as dangerous as that above the knee. 31. Mortification, after the sudden application of intense cold or heat, is to be treated on similar principles. 32. When a nerve, or plexus of nerves, conveying sensation and motion, and going to a part or an extremity of the body, is divided, the part or limb is deprived of three great qualities— motion, sensation, and the power of resisting with effect the application of a degree of heat or of cold which is innocuous when applied in a similar manner to the opposite or sound extremity. In other words, it will be scalded by hot water and frost-bitten by iced water, which are harmless when applied to another and a healthy part. An officer received, at the battle of Salamanca, two balls, one underneath the left clavicle, which was supposed to have divided the brachial plexus of nerves, as the arm dropped motionless and without sensation to the side. The other ball passed through the knee-joint, which suppurated. The left side of the chest became affected; he suffered from severe cough, followed by hectic fever, and was evidently about to sink. As a last chance, I amputated his leg above the knee, after which he slowly recovered. Fourteen years after- wards, he showed me his arm in the same state, and told me he had been indicted for a rape, but that the magistrates, seeing the wooden leg and the useless arm, in admitting the attempt, would not assent to the committal of that offence. 33. When one nerve only of several going to an extremity, such as the arm and hand, is divided, the loss sustained is con- fined to the part more immediately supplied by the injured nerve. Thus, if the ulnar nerve only is divided, the little finger and the adjacent side of the ring-finger suffer, perhaps in some degree the inner side of the thumb; if the median nerve, the thumb and other fingers; if the radial, the back of the hand, next the thumb. In some instances there seems to be a kind of collateral communication, by which a degree of sensibility is after a time recovered. 34. If any foreign substance should lodge in, and continue to irritate the nerve, the wounded part often becomes so extremely painful as not to be borne. The nerve at that part forms a