541 Illustrative Cases. me, that he called out * Rendez vous, mon officier,' to which I replied ' Pas encore, monsieur,' and rode away with my bowel in my hand. " I reached the field hospital shortly afterwards, when the protrusion was returned without enlarging the orifice, and no stitch was put into the wound, then or afterwards. It was dressed merely with lint and adhesive plaster. I begged earnestly for a glass of Madeira, which, after a little hesita- tion on the part of the surgeon, was given to me; but they afterwards thought it necessary to bleed me; but little blood followed the insertion of the lancet. This was the only time I was bled. In the morning I found the bed saturated with blood, which had trickled through to the floor, and had escaped from the wound behind. " Before a month had elapsed I and all the wounded were re- moved to Elvas on bullock-cars, and a desperate journey it was. " On my arrival inflammation began in the wound in front, accompanied with great swelling and pain. The swelling was laid open and a quantity of matter was evacuated, followed by an angry-looking protrusion, which was carefully washed with warm water and poulticed, and when the inflammation had subsided was dressed as before, with lint, confined by adhesive plaster. When the protrusion was touched by the hand I experienced a nauseous and disgusting sensation, to which in comparison the application of the knife or lancet was a flea-bite. " I arrived in England in June, and in September went to Brighton. Soon afterwards I felt terrible pains in the right side of my back, in a line with the wound, through the ilium, or rather above it, where a kind of tumour formed. For several days I suffered agony from it; and one night, completely worn out, I fell into a long and deep sleep, and awaking late in the morning I found all pain and excrescence gone, and nothing remaining but a tenderness of the part on pressure with the finger. I underwent much from violent spasms in the sto- mach, which I never had before I was wounded. I recovered however, sufficiently to rejoin my regiment the following spring in the Peninsula, and was soon afterwards again wounded in a skirmish by a spent shot in the left shoulder AAA