Common Operation on the Subclavian Artery. 279 steps of the operation, although, it may be done without it. The artery will be found crossing over the first rib at the very edge of the attachment of the scalenus anticus to it; but a quantity of cellular substance and fascia intervenes, which must be torn through before it can be exposed. This should be done with a blunt round-pointed knife, in a line parallel with the first incision, but more immediately over the outer edge of the scalenus muscle. The omo-hyoideus muscle passing obliquely across the root of the neck will be in this manner exposed, which should be clearly done, because it narrows the space in which the operation is to be performed to a small triangle, the outside and apex of which is formed by this muscle, the inside by the scalenus anticus, the base by the rib, above it the subclavian vein, and above it again, but under the clavicle, the supra-scapular artery and vein. The blunt knife working in the triangular space, will first expose one or more of the nerves of the axillary plexus, which again, diminishes the space; more inwardly the scalenus anticus will be felt, and should be seen by tearing through the thin fascia which lies behind the omo-hyoideus, and is connected with it. The point of the finger, assisted if necessary by the blunt knife, should be passed along the edge of the muscle until it rests on the first rib, and at the angle formed between the muscle and the rib the artery will be found and known by its pulsation. The operator should detach the artery in a slight degree from its connexions with the nail of the forefinger, and the aneurismal needle should be passed in preference from below upwards, by which the pleura will be avoided. After the ligature has been passed under the artery, the vessel should be pressed upon with the finger, whilst the ligature is firmly held in the other hand, by which the circulation through the artery will ba stopped. The pulsation in the tumour and at the wrist will cease, when the ligature may be tied with a double knot; for doing this, one or two steel probes having a ring at the end placed at a right angle with the shaft, will afford great assistance. In some instances, particularly in short-necked persons the omo-hyoideus lies close to the clavicle, and requires to b^ drawn upwards and outwards from it. In others, the lowest