Peculiar Fracture of Inner Table. 331 previously paralytic arm several inches from the bed, and was able to bend and extend the fingers. The pain in the head was considerably less, and her countenance, before dull and heavy, was now remarkably animated. Sensation had re- turned in the arm, and partially in the leg. Her pulse was calm, and the skin cool. Ten hours after the operation she was attacked with rigors, followed by pyrexia and all the symptoms of commencing in- flammation of the brain. By the immediate abstraction of blood, which was three times repeated during the succeeding twelve hours, whenever the pain in the head or the force of the circulation increased, every bad symptom was removed. In the course of three days the paralysis had completely dis- appeared, sight and hearing again became perfect, and after passing through a speedy convalescence, she quitted the hos- pital completely recovered. She has since had some relapses of pain and uneasiness in the head, but is altogether a different person, although of a very hysterical temperament. The cicatrix on the head is firm, and she considers herself to have been cured by the operation. 264. The inner table is sometimes broken in a peculiar man- ner, and to this attention was first drawn in my lectures, since trepanning has ceased to be the rule of practice in all cases of fractures. It occurs from the blow of a sword, hatchet, or other clean-cutting instrument, which strikes the head per- pendicularly, and makes one clean cut through the scalp and skull into the brain. This kind of cut is usually considered as a mere solution of continuity, and not as a fracture; the bone being apparently only divided, with scarcely any crack or fissure extending beyond the part actually penetrated by the instrument. When the outer table alone is divided, thewouDd in the scalp should be treated as a simple incised one, and united as quickly as possible, a practice of which I have seen several successful instances. When the instrument even penetrates to the diploe, the same course should be pursued; for although the external wound may not unite by the ad- hesive process, and some small exfoliations may occur, it is not common for serious consequences to ensue under that