Symptoms of Concussion. 297 right in considering the stertor or whiff in breathing to be accompanied by, if not directly dependent on, extravasation or lesion; and the heavy or laboured breathing to be depen- dent generally on a derangement of function, which is not perceptible on examination. If there be truth in experimental anatomy,stertorous breathing ought to be dependent on a direct affection of the medulla oblongata; nevertheless there can be no doubt that a temporary stertor or a puff at the corner of the mouth may exist without it, as a consequence of too great an abstraction of blood. An officer exercising his regiment under a hot sun in Portugal, suddenly fell back on his horse, and was carried home insensible and breathing stertorously; from this state he soon recovered, feeling weak in his lower limbs and inca- pable of influencing the sphincter ani, which was soon fol- lowed by an incontinence of urine. His intellectual faculties were never affected after the first insensibility; and on the third day he rode on a mule with care twenty miles to Lisbon. Many months elapsed before he recovered the necessary com- mand over the sphincter ani. Years have elapsed, and he cannot now always retain his urine. In this case the spinal marrow would seem to have been principally affected. It is important to recollect that the stupefaction or insensi- bility of concussion is coeval with the injury, and that as few cases of compression of the brain do occur without some de- gree of concussion, the insensibility may in many instances depend on it. The stupefaction peculiar to compression, and demanding relief by blood-letting or by operation, is that which comes on some two or more hours after the accident, and is caused by congestion or by extravasation; it must also be distinguished from that which appears after several days, and is the consequence of inflammatory action and effusion. The pulse has been supposed to offer a diagnostic sign of the nature of the mischief which has taken place in the brain: pressure or extravasation, it is said, being attended by a slow and laboured action of the heart. This may be admitted as a general, but by no means as a certain rule, for many of the largest extravasations, and many of the most diffused, have been accompanied throughout by a very quick pulse. When