Case of Sir O. Walker, G.C.B. 495 secondary, greater difficulty is sometimes experienced in arresting it, because the ligature easily cuts its way through the softened parts, and styptics are liable to fall into the cavity of the chest. The late General Sir G. Walker, G.C.B., after scaling the wall of Badajos, with the fifth division, was wounded by a musket- ball, which struck the cartilages of the lower ribs of the right side, broke the bones, penetrated the chest, and then passed outwards. He remained in Badajos under my care during the first three weeks, with many of the other principal officers who were wounded, and overcame the first inflammatory symptoms in a satisfactory manner. After I left him the wound sloughed some part of the cartilages separated, and one of the inter- costal arteries bled; although the bleeding was arrested once by ligature, and afterwards on its return, by different con- trivances; each time it reappeared, his life was placed in considerable jeopardy from it, and the discharge from the cavity of the chest, which was profuse. The bleeding was ultimately arrested by the oil of turpentine, applied on a dossil of lint, and pressed on the bleeding spot by the fingers of assistants until the haemorrhage ceased. He recovered after a very tedious treatment, with a considerable flattening of the chest, and a deep hollow on the lower part of the side, whence portions of the rib, and of the cartilages had been removed. A young man, aged fifteen, was wounded by small-shot in the chest, between the first and second ribs, and near the sternum, at the distance of about forty-eight paces. He ran about six hundred paces, fell, and died thirty-eight hours afterwards. On opening the injured cavity of the thorax, it was found to contain twenty-eight ounces of blood, the lung being collapsed to one-fourth its natural size. An opening on its upper part corresponded to the external one in the paries; but the track of the shot could not be traced into its substance for more than two inches and three-quarters; a lacerated spot was, however, perceived at the lower edge' of the sixth rib, about two inches from its head, at which part the intercostal artery was found to be torn through; the shot could not be found, and there was no opening in the skin behind.