192 Hemorrhage and Mortification. in a blanket converted into a bearer. He was considered as one of the slighter cases, until the gentleman in immediate charge of him requested me to see him, on account of his toes being in a state of mortification. On the evening of the 3rd of June, eighteen days after the accident, the man was placed on a bullock car, to be removed with the rest of the wounded to Elvas; the mortification of the foot having ceased to increase, and a line of separation having been formed. Shortly after the cars moved, I was in- formed that he was bleeding from the wound: it evidently appeared to flow from the popliteal artery; and as it issued slowly, I supposed from the lower divided end. The foot being partly lost,I determined on amputation above the knee, which was performed at Olivenca. The amputated limb was sent after me to Elvas, that it might be examined at leisure. I carefully traced the course of the wound, and found in it a little coagulated blood, but could not see the mouth of the vessel. A probe passed into the upper end of the artery was obstructed before it reached the ulcerated surface by nearly an inch; and on passing it up the lower one, it was stopped exactly in the middle of the track of the ball, by a veil or substance drawn across the mouth of the vessel, which, on careful examination, showed the point of the probe at one part of the circle, although too small to let it through; from this part I conceive the hemorrhage came. The divided ends were one inch apart. The upper, or femoral portion, for near an inch, contained a firm coagulum, filling up that part of the artery which had contracted like the neck of a claret bottle. The lower or popliteal portion of the artery had a very pecu- liar appearance; the substance drawn across appeared to have closed it completely at one time, and to have given way from the rough motion of the car at the point now open, and which was very small even when the sides of the artery were approxi- mated. A very little soft coagulum was behind it; and if the man had not been removed, the vessel might have re- mained secure. This case shows very distinctly the means adopted by nature for the suppression of hemorrhage from both ends of a divided artery. Corporal Carter, of the pioneers of the 29th regiment, was