288 Respiration consists offour Movements. Sensation, volition, memory, judgment sight, hearing, and all other sensations, are lost by the removal of the cerebral hemispheres. The mobility of the iris is destroyed, not by the removal of the hemispheres, but of the corpora quadri- gemina. If the cerebellum be cut away, a bird can no longer jump, walk, or retain its natural position, but it can move and live. When the medulla oblongata, or medulla spinalis, or the nerves of these parts, have been divided, mus- cular contraction ceases, and all power of movement is lost. Life is destroyed because respiration ceases when the medulla oblongata is divided at or immediately below the origin of the eighth pair of nerves. The removal of any one of these nervous parts in the lower animals only weakens the powers of those which remain. In man it destroys them, and life is extinguished. 244. Respiration consists of four movements—1, the opening of the mouth and dilatation of the nostrils; 2, the opening of the glottis; 3, the elevation of the ribs; 4, the contraction of the diaphragm. The division of the dorsal spinal marrow, below the origin of the phrenic nerve, paralyzes the movement of the ribs; above the phrenic nerve it paralyzes the diaphragm, and respiration ceases; the yawning or opening of the mouth and glottis alone remain. On dividing the point of origin of the par vagum, the movements of the glottis cease. On slicing the upper part of the medulla oblongata instead of the lower, from before backwards, the opening or yawning of the mouth ceases; another slice, and the dilatations of the nose are arrested, and the inspiratory movements of the trunk alone remain. "Whilst the power of motion in each part seems thus to be dependent on isolated points of the medulla oblongata and the medulla spinalis, an indirect or connecting influence is admitted to take place between them and the remaining parts of the brain; and whatever may be its nature or extent in animals, there can be no doubt of its being so infinitely greater in man, as to be essentially different; for none of these ex- periments can be made either artificially or accidentally on any one of these parts in him, without being productive of the ultimate, if not almost immediate death of the whole.