Rupture of the Viscera. 5] 3 convenient situation than the spot of injury, it should be opened at that part. In these and in all other serious injuries of the abdomen, the recumbent position, with a relaxed state of the muscles, should be observed for several days at least. The antiphlo- gistic plan of treatment should be fully enforced, especially by leeching, bleeding, and spare diet, and in due time the part should be supported by a proper bandage. The late General Sir John Elley was wounded in the last charge of heavy cavalry at Waterloo, by the point of a sabre, which entered nearer the extremity of the ensiform cartilage han the umb.licus, causing a wound about two inches in length, penetrating the stomach. From this he recovered in due time without any severe symptoms, but with a small hernia of that organ, which remained until his death, giving rise occasionally to some gastric inconvenience, when he did not keep a gentle pressure upon it by a retaining bandage. 379. Severe blows, or contusions from falls, or from the con- cussion of foreign bodies, may give rise not only to injury of bu? I rZ Pa?nf t,heiiabd0men' flowed by inflammation, but to rupture of the hollow as well as of the more solid and nxed viscera, and death. William Fletcher, 18th Hussars, a healthy man, thirty- seven years of age, received a kick from a horse, immediately above the 0S pubis on the 15th of April, 1810 (about a league from Cartaxo, on the Tagus); great tension of the belly soon aSv ' T 6XTr PaiD aDd VOmitk*- The rose xTent of Sir t0 8yDC0Pe tWlCe dUriDg thG t0 the extent of sixteen ounces each time. In the evening he was removed to Cartaxo, and taken into hospital; the Jain con tinned, accompanied by retching, without much vomfting; the abdomen was constantly fomented with hot water; an Ejec- tion was thrown up, and two ounces of infusion of senna with salts were given every two hours. In spite, however, of the most active treatment, he died on the 17th. On dissection the peritoneum was found to contain a large collection of flmd, partaking 0f a fecal nature; the bowels appeared to have suffered to the greatest extent, and a laceration was dis- covered in the ileum.