411 Illustrative Cases. became loose, and was removed at the end of thirteen years, when the report of the case terminated, the patient being in health. It may be remarked on this case, that the admission of air did no harm; that the lung remained compressed; that the whole side thickened and flattened, as a consequence, so as to obliterate the cavity; but the cure would not have been effected even then, if the piece of carious rib had not been discovered and removed. Mr. Winter, secretary to Admiral Sir C. Napier, was wounded by two musket-balls, one in the arm, while the other entered between the inferior edge of the left scapula and the thorax, which it penetrated, fracturing a rib in its progress, and lodged. He fell, and spat up some blood, and as symp- toms of inflammation supervened in twenty-four hours, he was bled largely; this was repeated frequently until these symptoms were subdued. He was after a time sent to the Marine Hospital, Lisbon, in a miserable plight, suffering from hectic fever, with a flushed face, hot skin, glassy eye, great prostration of strength, cough, restlessness, dyspnoea, and copious night-sweats. The wound discharged a watery, sanious, foetid matter, in quantity, and he was unable to do anything but eat, and for food he had a great craving. From this state, under good treatment, he gradually recovered his strength, and on the 18th June, 1834, a piece of the rib was removed. The wound remained open with a great purulent discharge, which kept him in a reduced state; a little more than one year after the injury, he reached London, and was taken into the Westminster Hospital. The left side of the chest was flattened and contracted, and the lung was doing very littlo in the respiratory way; the wound discharging a quantity of matter, which he could readily evacuate by making the opening the dependent point, but not otherwise. On en- larging the external wound, so as to make the opening into the chest direct, I found a round-pointed gum-elastic bougie could pass into it for four inches, and, on bending it down, for six inches more, it having to pass over a thickened pleura, and false membrane of an almost cartilaginous nature, for the extent of an inch, before it could be felt to be in a large