Illustrative Cases. 465 of removing any splintered pieces of rib or any spicule which can be felt or seen, the object is attained. I have not had experience of the utility of large incisions for the purpose of making the lung more visible, although the importance of ex- tracting foreign substances in the first instance is inculcated, provided their situation can be ascertained. A Spanish soldier, -wounded at the battle of Toulouse, was brought to me the same evening, shot through the right side of the chest, between the fifth and sixth ribs, one of which was fractured, the ball passing out nearly opposite behind. On removing the splinters by the aid of an incision, I found that the lung was adherent to the inside of the chest, and was enabled to withdraw from within the lung some splinters of bone, and a part of his coat. He left Toulouse apparently doing well; but natives of warm climates rarely suffer from such severe attacks of inflammation as those of northern habits and constitutions. A soldier of the German legion was wounded at the battle of "Waterloo, the 18th of June, 1815, by a musket-ball, which entered between the seventh and eighth ribs in front, about two inches from the sternum on the right side, passing out behind. He died in York Hospital, Chelsea, in the month of January following, where he was taken after some drunken fits, which induced an attack of pneumonia. A fistulous opening existed, and had discharged a little matter which was gradually diminishing; the sinus was from six to seven inches long, extending into and nearly through the base of the lung, and was lined by a mucous membrane, the lung around being thickened to the extent of from a quarter to half an inch. There was hut little fluid in the cavity, although the lung on both sides showed signs of recent inflammation, without which he would in all probability have recovered. The orifices of entrance and of exit through the lung adhered to the walls of the chest, thus separating the track of the ball from the general cavity of the pleura, which would in all probability have led to his ultimate recovery, if it had not been for his intemperance. 346. When a ball, or portion of bone, leather, cloth, wadding, or other foreign substance, is driven into the cavity of the