Illustrative Cases. 207 not always separate, so as to allow blood to issue in any quan- tity. It sometimes only oozes out, and occasionally does not do even that, unless some obstacle to the circulation takes place below, when blood is propelled with a jet; and the edges of the cut having thus been separated, blood continues to be thrown forth in considerable quantity. In an artery of the size of the temporal, a small longitudinal slit may sometimes heal without the canal of the artery being obliterated, although this very rarely takes place in one of a large calibre. In all cases of punctured wounds, when pressure can be effectually made, and especially against a bone, it should be tried in a graduated manner over the part injured, in the course of the artery above and below the wound, and if in an extremity, over the whole limb generally, the motions of which should be effectually prevented, and absolute rest en- joined, if the artery is of any importance. This should be continued for two, three, or more weeks, according to the nature of the injury. A medical student, being desirous of bleeding his friend in the arm, opened the ulnar artery, which in this case was very superficial. On discovering the error he had committed, he closed the wound, and applied a firm compress and bandage, under which it healed. On applying the ear to the part, it sounded like an aneurism, although there was scarcely any tumour, the thrilling sound being apparently occasioned by friction against the cut edges of the artery. This thrilling noise diminished, and the vessel immediately below the wound gradually recovered its pulsation, except at the exact situation of the injury, where none could be distinguished. It was obliterated at that part for the length of the eighth of an inch. The master tailor of the 40th Begiment, tempted by the approaching prospect of plunder, was induced, on the night of the assault on Badajos, to give up the shears, and arm himself with the halbert, and was properly rewarded for his temerity by a wound from a pike in the right arm, from which, he says, he bled like a pig, and became very faint. On his arrival at the spot indicated for surgical assistance, he fainted; but this was attributed to the unwarlike propensities of the man,