230 Treatment of Wounds of Arteries of the Leg. ninth day, it was evidently injected with blood, which flowed of a scarlet colour from both orifices. It being doubtful which vessel was wounded, whether it was the trunk of the popliteal artery, or the posterior tibial or peroneal after its division into these branches, it was thought advisable to place a ligature on the femoral artery about the middle of the thigh, which suppressed the haemorrhage. The case was now shown to me, as one in proof of the incorrectness of the opinion I had a few days before stated, of the impropriety of such an operation being done. The seeming success did not long continue; hEemoi-rhage again took place from the original wound, and the limb was then amputated. The posterior tibial artery had been injured, and had sloughed. The man died. Remarks.—A straight incision directly through the back of the calf of the leg of six inches in length, and two ligatures on the artery, would have saved this man's leg and life. Henry Vigarelie, a private in the German legion, was wounded on the 18th of June, at the battle of Waterloo, by a musket-ball, which entered the right leg immediately behind and below the inner head of the tibia, inclining down- wards, and under or before a part of the soleus and gastrocnemius muscles, and coming out through them, four inches and three-quarters below the head of the fibula, nearly in the middle, but towards the side of the calf of the leg. In this course it is evident that the ball must have passed close to the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries; but as little in- flammation followed, and no immediate hasmorrhage, it was considered to be one of the slighter cases. On the latter days of June he occasionally lost a little blood from the wound, and on the 1st of July a considerable hajmorrhage took place, which was suppressed by the tourniquet, and did not imme- diately recur on its removal. It bled, however, at intervals during the night; and on the morning of the 2nd, it became necessary to re-apply the tourniquet, and to adopt some means for his permanent relief. The man had lost a large quantity of blood from the whole of the bleedings, his pulse was 110, the skin hot, tongue furred, with great anxiety of countenance: the limb, from the appli- cation of the tourniquet from time to time, was swollen, a