380 Expiration, Inspiration- 299. In ordinary expiration the chest diminishes in size. The ribs which had been raised recede, by the elasticity of their cartilages, and by the return of the ligaments, to their state of rest; the elevating muscles become relaxed, whilst others belonging to the lower part of the trunk and abdomen con- tract. The diaphragm is relaxed and pushed upwards by the viscera of the abdomen, pressed upon by the muscles of its wall, if it should not be drawn upwards by the attraction of the lung, which when distended endeavours by its elasticity to return upon itself, and to occupy less space than the capa- city of the chest will afford. The lung, invested by an elastic, special, and transparent membrane, and covered by the pleura pulmonalis, is composed of an innumerable number of air vesicles, the largest being equal in size to the fourth part of a millet-seed. These air vesicles, crowded together, each communicating with a fine bronchial tubule, are separated from each other into groups by a condensed cellular tissue, thicker where it surrounds these lobules which alternately form, when aggregated together, a lobe, whence it is called interlobular tissue. An artery and vein form a very minute net-work around each vesicle. These vesicles may become filled by water; when dilated by air, they constitute what is called emphysema of the lung. The lung in man is constantly applied to the internal surface of the chest; the pleura or serous membrane covering the lung being closely applied to the pleura lining the wall, and one surface glides upon the other, moistened by a secretion in just sufficient quantity to effect this obiect. If the lower intercostal muscles of a young animal be removed to a sufficient distance, the lung and the diaphragm may be seen applied to the inside of the pleura lining the rib, and ascending and descending in concert, the lungs moving vertically, not horizontally. The diaphragm ascending, and covered by its pleurals in a similar manner applied to the lower part of the wall of the chest, which had been filled by the lung during inspiration. After death the lung remains closely applied to the pleura, recedes on an opening bemg made into that membrane, and may collapse, provided no adhesions exist to prevent it. 300. When inflammation of the pleura takes place, the