Treatment of Protruded Omentum. 522 situated in the tendinous expansion or aponeurosis of the wall of the belly, a slight division of which will give sufficient space for the restoration of the protruded part in almost every instance. I have unavoidably opened into the cavity of the peritoneum, and have seen it done in other instances, but no inconvenience follows small openings not exceeding a quarter of an inch in length, when they are properly covered over by the healthy parts. It is, therefore, important in all cases to have as small an opening as possible in the peri- toneum, and certainly no addition should be made to the size of a small opening if it can by any possibility be avoided, however indifferent half an inch, more or less, may be in the length of a large one. All protruded parts, whether omentum or intestine, should be gently cleansed with warm water, and the fingers of the surgeon should be wetted in a similar man- ner, the mesentery being returned first if protruded, then the intestine, and lastly the omentum; the two former under all circumstances; the latter not so, if it be adherent or inflamed, torn or jagged, or in a state of suppuration or gangrene. It should in these cases be left to itself, and treated in the most simple manner; a ligature should never be applied to it, neither should it be spread out and cut off, as was formerly recommended, as it will gradually retract, and be withdrawn into the cavity of the abdomen. If suppuration should take place in its substance, and the swelling of the part lead to its constriction, or the formation of matter under the integu- ments, or between the layers of muscular or tendinous fibres, these may be carefully divided. Evan Thomas, aged seventeen, was admitted into the Westminster Hospital, Sept. 1, 1828, having been stabbed with a dinner-knife immediately above the umbilicus; the wound was three-quarters of an inch long; the omentum pro- truded, and could not be returned until the skin, cellular membrane, and fascia had been divided; the opening in the peritoneum was then distinctly seen, against the inside of which the omentum was left, the wound in the skin being sewed up by the continuous suture. In the evening he was bled to sixteen ounces, and, as he had thrown up his dinner, an enema only was administered. On the 2nd, the belly being