466 Loose Substances in the Chest. pleura, it usually gives rise to fatal results, constituting therefore cases of the greatest importance, to -which attention has not been sufficiently given, but on which too much cannot be bestowed, if life is to be preserved by the art of surgery. The neglect of these cases has probably arisen from the in- sufficiency of the means of ascertaining their nature—an insuf- ficiency which auscultation has in some measure removed, and which the science of surgery may further elucidate. The presence of a ball, a piece of bone, or of any other substance, lying upon or rolling about on the pleura covering the dia- phragm, must give rise to more or less irritation and inflam- mation, and consequently to suppuration, or the formation of matter upon the surface of that membrane in its thickened state, until, in all probability, the foreign substance has been removed, or the person has wasted away and perished. A dragoon of the King's German Legion was wounded between the eighth and ninth ribs at the battle of Salamanca. The ball had entered and lodged; the symptoms were severe; the breathing laborious; as the discharge from the wound was not free, I enlarged the wound, removed some scales of bone, a bit of cloth which stuck between the ribs, the lower of which was broken, and evacuated a great quantity of bloody coloured fluid, not purulent. After a few days the discharge became purulent; and, as he felt something, as he thought, roll within him, which he supposed might be the ball, I con- templated again enlarging the wound, so as to be able to see whether anything were loose in the cavity, but a sudden relapse of inflammation, from drinking some brandy, carried him off. On examination, the ball was found lying loose on the dia- phragm in the chest, and might, with some enlargement of the wound, have been extracted. A French prisoner of war, who had been wounded near Almaraz, by a musket-ball which had lodged in the left side of the chest, was sent to Lisbon, in 1812, with a con- siderable discharge through the wound, and died there. The ball was found in the angle formed between the diaphragm and the spine, enveloped in coagulable lymph, by which it was attached to the spine; there were some splinters of bone enclosed with it.