272 Ligature of the Carotid Artery; vessels, particularly over the jugular vein. This fascia, which is strong although thin, is to be carefully divided below the muscle, immediately over the centre of the artery, the position of which is to be accurately ascertained by the finger. At or beneath the same spot, the sheath of the artery is to be opened; and the long thin nerve, the descendens noni, which runs upon the sheath, will at this part be seen inclining to the tracheal side of the artery. It is to be separated and drawn inwards with the muscles. If the sheath of the artery be carefully opened immediately over its centre, the jugular vein will scarcely interfere with it. But as it has been known to enlarge suddenly under the exertions or excitement of the patient so as to overlap the artery, it has been recommended to make gentle pressure on the vessel at the upper part of the incision, and below if necessary, in order to prevent that occurrence. The aneurismal needle is then to be introduced and passed under the artery from without inwards, by which the jugular vein and the par vagum nerve will be avoided, more particularly if the sheath of the vessels has been undisturbed, save where it has been opened immediately over the artery. The point of the aneurismal needle is to be brought out close to the inside of the artery and within its sheath, by which means all danger will be avoided of injuring either the recur- rent or the sympathetic nerves which lie behind or to the inside of it. As to the oesophagus, thoracic duct, or thyroid artery, they are not likely to be injured by any common operator; but he should be aware that on the left side, if he be obliged to operate low down, he may meet with greater inconvenience from the jugular vein, which is more anterior to the artery, and rather overlaps it, whilst on the right side it inclines out- wards from it. The carotid artery may be tied higher up in the following manner:—The incision in this instance should be begun a little below where the former one was commenced, and should be continued upwards for the same length of three inches, in a line extending towards the angle of the jaw. The head should be laid back to enable this to be done, and ought to be kept in that position by an assistant. The artery at this part of the neck is covered by the integuments, the platysma