70 Inutility of the Tourniquet: passes over the edge of the pubes, and that the loss of blood on its division must be so formidable as to be murderous. This was merely a surgical delusion, which maintained its ground in London until the end of 1815, when the French soldier, whose thigh had been successfully taken off at the hip-joint after the battle of Waterloo, without first tying the femoral artery, was shown to all disbelievers. It was the great point of advance in English and European surgery, and one great result of the practice of that war. 67. This great, indeed most important fact, having been established, the surgery of amputation was deprived of nearly all its terrors. Confidence, and with it coolness, was obtained, and many young surgeons diligently sought for an operation on the hip-joint as the ne plus ultra of operative boldness and dexterity, much after the fashion of the young lady pianistes, who do not consider themselves in any way advanced on the road to perfection, until they can play at least the Overture to Guillaume Tell, if not the Galop Chromatique of Listz, nearly as well as the composer himself. 68. As a tourniquet cannot be applied in this amputation, nor even at that of the shoulder-joint, without doing harm, its inutility in the greatest operations is proved; and recourse should not be had to it in the smaller or less dangerous ones, provided sufficient assistance can be obtained. When the surgeon has only one assistant, he should apply a tourniquet; or even if he should have several bad ones on whom he cannot depend. 69. There is always more blood lost, and particularly in secondary amputations, when a tourniquet is used, than when the principal artery is compressed by one assistant, and two others are ready to press on the outside of the flaps, or upon the divided vessels, with the ends of their fingers; the force necessary to prevent the passage of blood through the common femoral, or the axillary artery, being merely that of the finger and thumb, applied in a very gentle manner, or even of the end of the fore-finger of a competent person. I have rarely applied a tourniquet since 1812, and few persons have done more formidable operations under more difficult cir- cumstances. The ancient illusion with regard to the necessity