Ball in the Bladder forming a Stone. 579 caused by some dead bone of the pelvis having a communi- cation with the bladder by a fistulous opening. A soldier, of the King's German Legion, was struck, at Waterloo, by a musket-ball, which entered a little way above the pubes, and lodged. The symptoms which immediately followed were by no means severe, although he passed a little bloody urine at first; the external wound closed with- out difficulty. He complained of pain at the neck of the bladder, and had a great desire to pass urine, with other signs of stone in the bladder, which induced me to pass a sound, when I found that the ball was lying loose in that viscus. On his arrival at the York Hospital, at Chelsea, he became, with the French soldier whose thigh had been amputated at the hip-joint, an object of great attention. I performed the ope- ration for the removal of the ball in the presence of a large concourse of military and medical persons. It was done in less than two minutes; but the calculus, composed of the triple phosphates which had formed around the ball, yielded, and broke under the forceps. The pieces were removed sepa- rately. The ball being heavy fell below the neck of the bladder, which, being healthy, yielded to the pressure, and allowed it to sink on the rectum, where it could not be caught by the forceps, until it had been raised by a finger in that part. The bladder was then well washed out, so as to remove all the pieces that might remain, and the man was removed to bed. He was bled once, in consequence of some apprehension of pain; but he had not a bad symptom, and rapidly recovered. The symptoms of irritation did not, however, entirely pass away, as could have been wished, and I began to fear that some small piece of calculus had been overlooked; when one morn- ing, after considerable effort, he passed a ring of calcareous matter, which had formed around the orifice of the bladder, and which being dislodged, had fortunately entered the urethra, along which it was forced by the urine. It was evidently formed of the phosphates in sand, which had become agglutinated together, around the meatus of the bladder. This he took with him to Hanover, where it, himself, and his double wound attracted great notice. The ball, which was