365 Local Treatment of the Protrusion. evidently abraded. The operation gave relief, but a tumour soon sprang up, evidently composed of brain. The patient was again bled, purged, and starved; calomel and opium were given in moderate doses, and the protrusion ceased to increase; about the same time it changed colour, became yellow, foetid, softer, and soon wasted away, pieces of dead matter separating at each dressing, until it sunk within the level of the skull; after which, healthy granulations sprung up, and the wound healed. In the fatal cases, paralysis, accompanied by stupor and other symptoms of compression of the brain, invariably super- vened before death. The preceding cases prove that persons may recover after having had a protrusion of the brain, without, as well as with the loss of a portion of its substance, the difference in all pro- bability between the cases being dependent on the degree of mischief which gave rise to them. In the fatal cases I have seen, the protrusion was manifestly a part of the substance of the brain, and firmer than the hemisphere beneath, which was soft, pulpy, and of a yellow and sometimes of a reddish colour, the lateral ventricle being filled with a sero-purulent matter, pus being also spread over the surface and inter- mingled with the pulpy structure, into which the brain had been changed. The protrusion was the consequence of low inflammation of the brain; and greater caution had been necessary during the progress of the mischief than had been enforced. It was the observation of this, and of other cir- cumstances not less important, which led me to enjoin that rigid system of management insisted upon in all cases of injury of the head. There can be no doubt that the formation of many of these protrusions was aided by the opening made in the dura mater, which would have restrained their growth if it had been sound. The dura mater, therefore, should never be opened if it can be avoided. It has been proposed to destroy protrusions of the brain with escharotics, and by ligature; and more faith has sometimes been placed in the knife for their early removal, than in the more deferred operations of nature. Greater reliance may, however, be placed on the efforts of nature, assisted by a 11 2