129 Amputation at the Wrist. tendons and the vessels, if long, are to be cut short, and the latter to be tied, after which the flaps are to be brought together by sutures, and retained by sticking-plaster, compress, and bandage. 125. When the operation is to be performed above the middle of the arm, it may be done by the circular incision. The arm being placed with the thumb uppermost, an assis- tant should retract the integuments as much as possible, whilst the operator makes a circular incision through them. They are then to be drawn up for nearly an inch. The muscles on the inside of the arm should be divided by one slanting cut down to the bones; and then those on the outside. The bones are to be cleared by cutting through any muscular fibres attached to them, when the interosseal ligament should be divided, and the linen retractors passed between the bones, which may then be sawn through at the same time without difficulty. The stump is to be dressed in the usual manner. The operation may be done by cutting through the integuments and muscles at once in an oblique manner, until the flaps thus formed shall be sufficiently large to make a thick cushion over the ends of the bones. 126. Amputation at the wrist, or the joint of the radius and ulna with the first row of the bones of the carpus, has been re- commended by some surgeons as preferable to the amputa- tion above the ends of the radius and ulna. The hand being placed midway between pronation and supination, the soft parts are to be divided by a circular incision, beginning from half an inch to an inch below the ends of the radius and ulna. The integuments being turned up without the tendons, they are to be divided, and the joint is to be opened into before the spinous process of the radius; and, whilst the hand is pressed down, the knife should divide all the soft parts, and separate the carpus from the radius and ulna. The wound is to be closed by sutures in the usual manner. When a circular incision cannot be made, in consequence of the nature of the injury, and this operation is still preferred, a covering for the bones must be obtained where it can be procured, by one or more flaps. 127. In all injuries of the hand, the value of a thumb and a