Case of General Sir S. Barns. 554 extremities cold; the countenance depressed and anxious; bowels confined; stomach rather irritable. A number of leeches were applied, and other remedies administered. The constant pain, which was increased by pressure, could only be relieved by loss of blood, although every other symptom seemed to forbid depletion. Twenty ounces of blood were taken from the arm, which caused a diminution of the pain, and gave relief for an hour; the pain then returned, and twelve ounces more blood were taken away with the most beneficial effect; a blister was applied over the part, and a dose of calomel and opium was repeated. Shortly afterwards he became tranquil; the extremities lost their coldness; and although the pain continued in a slight degree for several hours, and much soreness remained for many days, he quickly recovered. Two months afterwards he had another and equally severe attack, in consequence of walking about two miles rather hastily; from that he was relieved in a similar manner. Whenever he bent his body a portion of the rib appeared to press in upon the liver, and often gave him acute darting pain; and one day, on pulling on his boot in haste, with some bodily exertion, a third attack ensued. In order to prevent the bending of the body forward, and to con- fine the motion of the liver, which seemed liable to injury from the irregular points of bone which could be readily dis- tinguished above it, stays, made with iron plates instead of whalebone, were adapted to his body, and from these he de- rived great comfort. Corporal Macdonald, 1st battalion, 79th regiment, was wounded, on the 16th June, at Quatre-Bras, by a musket-ball, which entered the abdomen, splintered the eighth rib on the right side, passed through the liver, and was supposed to have lodged on the opposite side, as he says he felt the ball strike the left side, on which he was not able to lie for a long time. Lost little blood at the time; was dressed superficially, and arrived in Brussels on the 19th, labouring under considerable fever. Bleeding to thirty-six ounces. For seven successive days the bleeding was repeated, to from twelve to sixteen ounces each day, when a large, bilious, and purulent discharge took place from the wound, on which the inflammatory symptoms