Mode of Operating. 248 piece of sponge could be prepared. He placed that upon the first, and so went on, pressing the gradually enlarged pieces obliquely upwards and backwards against the base of the skull, till he had filled the wound with a firm cone of sponge, the base of which projected two or three inches externally. He then applied a linen roller in such a manner as to press firmly upon the sponge, passing it in repeated turns over the head, face, and neck. On the 30th of December the patient was discharged cured, several fragments of bone and two teeth from the upper jaw having been cast off. Some deformity re- mained, in consequence of the depression on the side of the face. The inutility of tying the primitive trunk for a wound of the internal carotid is distinctly shown in this case, which is no less valuable from the fact demonstrated, that if the in- ternal carotid can be exposed and injured within the angle of the jaw by an accident, it can be exposed and secured by liga- ture at the same part by an operation. 216. When, then, the internal carotid is wounded through the mouth, what operation is to be performed ? That of placing a ligature above, and another below the opening made into it; and after much consideration, and many trials, the following operative process is recommended to the attention of those who are best acquainted with the subject. An incision is to be begun opposite to, and on the outside of the extremity of the lobe of the ear, and carried downwards in a straight line, until it reaches a little below the angle of the jaw, and at the distance of nearly half an inch, more or less, as may be found most convenient from the form of the neck. This incision exposes the parotid gland without injuring it. A second is then to be made from the extremity of the first, extending at a right angle forwards, under or along the base of the lower jaw, until the end of it is opposite the first molar tooth. This incision should divide the skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, and the facial artery and vein. The second molar tooth should then be removed, and the jaw sawn through at that part. Then cut through the deep fascia, the mylo-hyoideus muscle, and the mucous mem- brane of the floor of the mouth, exposing the insertion of