Dilatation of the Wound; Incisions. 144 to enable the surgeon to remove the broken portions, as also the ball or any extraneous substances which may be in the wound. The incisions necessarily required for this purpose in the thigh are sometimes neglected, or the surgeon refrains from making them from the great thickness of the muscular parts, and from the wound having taken place on the inside, near the great vessels, so as to render incisions of sufficient size or extent in some degree dangerous. The thickness of the muscular parts is not a sufficient reason for avoiding an incision, neither is the vicinity of the great vessels and nerves, although they may not be divided; and if the situation of the bone on the outside of the thigh be attended to, the broken portions may sometimes be got at, at that part, if not on the inside. If this cannot be done, amputation had better be had recourse to. The object of the examination of such a wound being to ascertain the state of the fracture and to remove the splinters and any extraneous substances, the extent and number of the incisions must depend on them; the true prin- ciple of what has been called dilatation in wounds. If the ball should have merely struck and grazed the bone, and passed out, causing a transverse fracture only, there is no ne- cessity for making incisions at the moment, although one or more may be subsequently required to aid in the discharge of an exfoliated piece of bone, or of a splinter which may have been overlooked. If the ball lodge deeply in the soft parts, after breaking the bone, it should be removed, if practicable, by a second or counter opening, and a free vent should always be made for the discharge. It may, however, be laid down as a general rule, that whatever is likely to be required during the first few days had better be done on the first than on the second or third; for after inflammation has commenced, any handling or examination of the limb, however gently made, gives great pain. 152. After the first incisions have been made, and the larger splinters, which can be felt, have been removed, a secondary danger occurs from those which are smaller, and may have been overlooked, or not been discovered. This arises from the enveloping of these splinters in the new ossific matter de- scribed as being formed by the inflamed periosteum. This evil