Wounds of the Heart. 483 adherent strangulated rupture in any other part, by a simple division of the stricture in the most convenient situation. The opening should be a straight incision through the wall of the abdomen, large enough to admit the hand, immediately over the part where the diaphragm is supposed to be injured. It should be closed by a continuous suture through the skin. 354. Wounds of the heart are for the most part immediately fatal. Many persons have, however, been known to live fox- hours, nay days, and even weeks, with wounds which could scarcely be otherwise than destructive; and several cases are recorded, in which the cicatrices discovered after death, in persons known to have been wounded in the vicinity of the heart, have shown that even severe wounds of that most im- portant organ are not necessarily fatal. As our knowledge of the nature of the injury inflicted can never be distinct, it rollows that every wound should be considered as curable, until it is unfortunately proved to be the contrary. 355. Auscultation and percussion, and principally auscultation of the whole precordial region, have afforded means of judging of injuries of the heart which were not formerly known. A vertical line, coinciding with the left margin of the sternum, has about one-third of the heart, consisting of the upper portion of the right ventricle, and the whole of the left, on the left. The apex of the heart beats between the carti- lages of the fifth and sixth left ribs, at a point about two inches below the nipple, and an inch on its external side; or, it one leg of a compass be fixed at a point midway between the junction of the cartilage of the fifth rib on the left side, with the rib and the sternum, and a circle of two inches in diameter be drawn around, it will define as nearly as possible the space of the precordial region occupied by the heart, whilst uncovered, except by the pericardium and some loose cellular texture. In the rest of the precordial region it is covered and separated from the walls of the chest by the inter- vening lung. If the chest of the dead subject be transfixed with W needles, it will be found that the centre of the first bone of the sternum corresponds with the lower edge of the left sub clavian vein, and to the arch of the aorta crossing the trachea-