General and Local Bleeding. 519 point to determine when blood enough has been abstracted with advantage, as too much may be taken away, as well as too*little; the former being marked after death by the general diffusion of a slight degree of inflammation, without the con- comitant sign of effusion of serum. Leeches, applied in con- siderable number, will often be found highly beneficial, more particularly at a late period, when the sufferer may not be able to bear a general abstraction of blood. The patient, after leeches have been once applied, and their good effect has been ascertained, will often ask for them himself on the recur- rence of pain, or on its increase; and from twenty to sixty, eighty, and even a hundred may be applied in some instances of great danger with the greatest advantage. The pulse is by no means a guide in the management of these cases; a small, low, and sometimes not even a hard pulse, being more strongly indicative of an overpowering state of inflammation than is a quick and full pulse; and much more depends on the pain, the anxiety, and the general oppression, than on the apparent state of the circulation. Before general and local bleeding cease to be employed with advantage, calo- mel, antimony and opium will render essential, nay, most important service. The extensive incisions made of late years into the abdomen for the removal of ovarian tumours, with fair success, confirm what I have constantly repeated in my lectures for the last thirty-five years, that penetrating wounds of the abdomen, without injury to the viscera, when properly treated, are not so dangerous as they were generally supposed to be. 384. In penetrating wounds of the belly, the offending instru- ment frequently passes in for a considerable distance, some- times separating or pushing the viscera aside without injuring them, at others inflicting upon them wounds more or less severe. In fatal cases of stabs from knives and sharp instru- ments, the intestines have been usually injured by the point; although when the lapse of three or four days before death takes place, the small wound is not readily perceived. W. Carpenter, private, 1st battalion, 43rd Regiment, was accidentally wounded, March 19th, 1812, by a comrade, the small end of a ramrod entering about two inches below the