135 Secondary Amputations. contagious fevers and dysenteries, which the soldier is often so unfortunate as to acquire in crowded hospitals. If the man should escape with life, a joint will frequently be lost which might have been saved, if the operation had been performed in the first instance below it; when the injury is in the thigh, this is a most important point for consideration. 133. If the sufferer should escape these dangers, there re- main the sudden and usually disastrous affections from deposi- tions of matter in the viscera, alluded to in aphorisms 58, 59, 60, 61, and 62, which are by no means so common when the patient is in better health; the connexion of these with inflammation of the veins deserves a more close investigation than has as yet been bestowed upon it by civil or by military surgeons; attention to this was first drawn by me during the war in Spain. 134. In secondary amputations in parts which have par- taken of the extensive irritation which accompanies the original injury, a larger portion of flaps will require to be preserved, although the integuments and muscles cannot be said to be unsound. In other words the bone must be cut shorter, or the stump will be conical and bad, particularly if sinuses containing pus are found to run up between the muscles, or between them and the bone itself—a state very likely to give rise subsequently to caries. In sawing the bone it may be again stated, the point of the saw should incline downwards, and when two-thirds of the bone have been divided, it should be made to cut perpendicularly, whereby the side next the operator is the last part divided; the hazard of splintering the bone at that moment will then be avoided, particularly if the limb to be removed be held with great steadiness. 135. In secondary amputations, twice, nay, three times the number of arteries will bleed as in primary ones. In the thigh, the femoral artery should be drawn out with a tenacu- lum or spring-forceps, and tied firmly with a single thread of dentists' silk, one of the two ends being cut off close to the knot. The smaller the vessel, the smaller the thread required. Torsion or twisting the smaller vessels, so as to rupture their inner coats, answers very well in cases in which many small