Injury to the Frontal Sinuses. 359 being divided, showed a separation of the edges of the sagittal suture, from which some blood flowed. Two crowns of the trephine were applied on the twelfth day, in order to admit of the free discharge of some blood which had been extrava- sated from a wound in the longitudinal sinus, after which the symptoms subsided, and the patient gradually recovered. A ball may pass apparently through the fore part of the head from side to side without doing much mischief beyond depriving the sufferer of sight. It does not in these case's in- jure the brain, but passes immediately below it and through the back part of both orbits. In four such cases the recovery was rapid, but the blindness was irremediable. 283. The danger of injuries to the froutal sinuses has been greatly exaggerated, and vanishes in a great degree when attention is paid to their structure. The uncertainty of the depth of the cavity between the tables of the bone, and the irregularity of the exposed surface of the inner table, which may through carelessness be mistaken for depression, should be remembered. A soldier of the 29th regiment was wounded at the battle of Talavera by a ball, which struck him on the lower part of the right side of the forehead, fracturing the external wall of the frontal sinus. On examination, the ball could be felt lodged in the sinus, whence it was readily removed by en- larging the opening, and the man recovered without any bad symptoms. At the storming of Badajos, a soldier of one of the regiments engaged at the little breach was struck by a small ball about the size of a swan-shot, it penetrated the frontal sinus of the right side, and stuck in the innner table, the outer being considerably injured and splintered by the blow. The splinters having been removed, the small ball could be seen sticking in the inner table of the bone, whence it was easily extracted leaving the dura mater bare beneath. He was sent to Elvas, and recovered with a good and firm cicatrix. After a wound of the frontal sinus has healed, the air has been known to raise up the integuments of the forehead into an elastic crepitating swelling whenever the patient blew his nose, so that a compress and bandage on the part were required for its relief; but these cases are very rare.