Removal of Splinters, &c., from the Chest. 463 pleura costalis; the lung was shrunk and attached by membrane almost equally thickened across the chest, the lower part of which was filled in the upright position by the discharge, which was only evacuated in quantity when the opening of the wound was made dependent. A case was met with after the battle of Waterloo, among the French wounded, which was somewhat similar. A portion of rib had been driven in, and the assistant-surgeon was aware that the ball could occasionally be felt. The man died at the end of a fortnight, the cavity containing a quantity of sero- purulent bloody matter. The lung had been injured by* the ball, which had fallen loose into the cavity of the chest. 344. The removal of splinters of bone, or of other foreign bodies from the lung, has occupied the attention of surgeons from the earliest periods, and some of them proposed to draw a piece of cambric, or other things, through the chest, for the purpose of removing them. These extreme measures have been abandoned; but there can be no doubt of the pro- priety of removing as many of these causes of irritation as can be either seen or felt. If the ball have broken a rib, the orifice of entrance especially should be enlarged as early and as carefully as possible, so as to give an opportunity for the' removal of the splinters and of all angular points of bone which may be turned inwards. A little addition to the ori- ginal opening can do no harm, and if the lung should not col- lapse or be adherent it will enable the surgeon to see whether any splinters are impacted in it, and to remove them. It is possible that the end of the finger even may be introduced, and the lung felt, if it should not have receded too far; as it is insensible to such an operation, no evil will ensue; but all probmgs with small, sharp-pointed instruments should be avoided. That wadding, buttons, pieces of cloth, and of bone have been frequently coughed up, I have had experience; but although it is said that even balls have been brought up I have not had an opportunity of seeing them. An officer was wounded by a musket-ball on the 9th of July, 1745; it passed through the chest, entering in front fracturing the seventh rib near its junction with the cartilage attaching it to the sternum, and passing out behind, near