Wounds and Injuries of the Liver. 553 B B B The symptoms which ensue after a wound of the liver are those common to inflammation of the cavity of the abdomen with the additional ones peculiar to the organ superadded; pulse often smaller and less perceptible than in peritonitis; discolouration of the skin, eye, and urine, amounting even to jaundice, although this is not an immediate symptom, neither is it always present. The pain is not confined to the part, but extends to the umbilicus; whilst the pain symptomatic of inflammation of the liver—viz., pain in the top of the right shoulder—is felt early, and is often accompanied by cramps of the muscles of the arms, and numbness of the fingers. The usual symptoms of anxiety and depression are present, and the stomach shows by its irritability that it has partaken of the shock given to the system. The bowels are usually con- fined, but I have known blood passed from them when it was not supposed that the stomach or intestines had been wounded • the discharge from the wound is either of blood or bile, or both, mixed with a serous effusion, which afterwards becomes purulent. Wounds of the gall-bladder are, as far as is known, fatal; the effusion of bile which immediately takes place giving rise to inflammation, which, with other causes destroys the sufferer at the end of a few days. If the gall- bladder be adherent to the peritoneum from any previous inflammation, a wound in it need not prove mortal, as the effusion would be avoided, and there is no reason to believe that an injury to this part would be otherwise more vital than that of any other of the viscera of the abdomen. The late Lieut-General Sir S. Barns, when Lieut-Colonel of the Royals, was wounded at the battle of Salamanca by a musket-ball, which injured the cartilages of the false ribs, a portion of the rib being removed, and passed out through the liver. A bilious discharge continued several weeks from the wound, and his life was saved with great difficulty. He returned to his duties, although suffering from a dragging pain and weight in the side, which any exertion increased. In the autumn of 1819 he was attacked by acute inflammation; the pain in the right side, extending over the stomach and umbilicus, was constant and acute, and increased on pressure; the pulse small, indeed scarcely perceptible; the