394 General Bloodletting. preserved. Bleeding in inflammation of the pleura, in young and healthy persons, should, therefore, be effected with an un- sparing hand, until an impression has been made on the system —until the pain and the difficulty of breathing have been re- moved—until the patient can draw a full breath, or faints; and the operation should be repeated, from time to time, every three or four hours, according to the intensity of the recurrence, or the persistence of the essential symptoms. The pulse does not often indicate the extent or severity of the inflammation, although it often expresses the amount of constitutional irri- tability of the person. It is sometimes exceedingly illusory as a guide, and is never to be depended upon in the earlier stages of disease, when accompanied by pain and great oppression of breathing. Whenever the pulsations of the heart are propor- tionally much stronger than those of the arteries, we may bleed without fear, and with the certainty of finding the pulse rise; but if the heart and pulse are both weak, the abstraction of blood will almost always occasion complete prostration of strength. 306. When many years ago in charge of a regiment of in- fantry, on the top of the Berry Head, the outermost point of Torbay, the men were attacked by pneumonia. According to the practice taught in London, I bled my patients three and four times in the first forty-eight hours. I first drew sixteen ounces, then fourteen, then twelve, then abstracted as the complaint continued, eight ounces; gave tartar emetic, so as to keep up nausea; then calomel, antimony, and opium, and lost my patients. I examined the bodies of all, and found that they had lived to what is now called the third stage of pneu- monia, combined in almost all with pleuritis, with effusion, and the formation of false membranes. The disease was essentially a pleuro-pneumonia, varying in different degrees, as the pleura or the lungs were principally affected; and I saw with regret that the disease had not in any way been arrested; that the means employed had been insufficient. My sixteen ounces of blood were increased to thirty, but it would not do. It was evident that, to succeed, no limit should be placed to the ab- straction of blood in the first instance, but the decided incapa- bility of bearing its further loss. Every man was therefore bled