3 a judge of Physic and Surgery. the purse and regulates everything, should be the head of the doctors, as the Lords of the Treasury are the head of the commissaries; the actual chief of the doctors should be his satellite, revolving round his centre of motion, as if he were another Jupiter or Saturn. Then, and then only, will the calls of humanity be effectually complied with. A gentleman in civil life is no sooner appointed to an office, of whatsoever importance it may be, and of the duties of which he knows perhaps but little, than he is presumed to be deserving of the confidence of the government and of the public, and it is granted to him. A clergyman or a lawyer is treated in a similar manner. No one disputes the integrity of an arch- bishop, or of a chancellor; but no one in a high official situa- tion thinks of trusting a doctor. It is certainly not so acknowleged, but it as certainly is the fact; and the medical department of the army will never afford to the public that quantum of good, of inestimable service it ought to give, until this is altered; but when will a man be found at the head of the government strong enough in mind, and warm enough with the feelings of humanity, to do it ? The duties of the medical department during the war in the Peninsula were of two kinds, which may be termed profes- sionally administrative, and practically scientific. An Inspector- General at the head of an Army in the field of even 20,000 men, cannot be a practical man in either physic or surgery; his time is necessarily too much occupied by other important matters to allow of his attending to individual cases of disease or of injury. His professional opinion is only valuable from what he has previously learned, and this knowledgeis gradually dete- riorating from year to year, from disuse, until at last it is com- paratively of little value. It remains a scientific acquirement, but it ceases in general to be thoroughly practical and of real utility. Inspector-Generals in the medical department of a certain age may, then, always be placed with advantage on the same honourable list with Generals of Cavalry and Infantry of similar standing, all being full of science and of learning, but of little practical usefulness. The Deputies of the Inspector- General being employed in a manner somewhat similar to himself when on active service, gradually acquire the same propensities, and disaptitude for professional labours, to which