526 Illustrative Cases. constricted by the tendinous expansion of the muscular fibres, the latter was carefully divided by a blunt-pointed curved bistoury passed under its upper edge, and resting on the back of the nail of the forefinger, by which the intestine was guarded; the flatus having been pressed out of the intestine, which was gently washed with warm water, it was restored to the cavity of the abdomen. Of the part which had appa- rently first protruded, the peritoneal coat and a few fibres of the longitudinal layer of muscle were divided to the extent of half an inch, the remaining portion of the gut being un- hurt. The skin was then sewed up by a fine continuous suture and adhesive plaster, and a compress duly applied. A good deal of alarm was evinced, the pulse was very small, and the man faint. The other wound was in the back, about half- an inch in extent, and near the inferior angle of the right scapula. It appeared to be a penetrating wound, but not giving rise to any peculiar symptoms, he was placed in bed on his back, with his legs raised, and the body slightly bent. Early the next morning, the officer on duty found it necessary to bleed him largely,to forty ounces, according to my directions, on account of pain which had come on in his bowels and in his back, accompanied by difficulty of breathing, the skin being hot, and the pulse quick aud hard. The cellular membrane around the wound in the back was emphysematous; there was a slight cough, accompanied by an expectoration slightly tinged with blood. The bleeding removed the essential symptoms, but the pain and difficulty of breathing returning next day, it was repeated to eighteen ounces with aD equally good effect. It was necessary to repeat it on the third, fourth, and fifth days, when the pain ceased to return, and the pulse instead of being small and hard, became softer and fuller. The bowels were open naturally on the third day, and the emphysema had gradually disappeared, no food being allowed, and very little drink for some days, and then only in small quantities of the simplest kind. The threads were removed with scissors on the sixth day, and the man was free from complaint, although very weak, at the end of five weeks. Madame Doucet was applied to, a hundred years ago, by a soldier, who having been struck by a halbert, had a wound