When should A mpulalion be performed ? 52 equal chance of freedom from any immediate danger, as of the upper extremity at or near the shoulder-joint. 43. It is otherwise with amputations above the middle of the thigh, and up to the hip-joiut. They are always attended •with considerable danger. 44. There can be no doubt that if the knife of the surgeon could in all cases follow the ball of the enemy, or the wheel of a railway carriage, and make a clean good stump in- stead of leaving a contused and ragged wound, it would be greatly to the advantage of the sufferer; but as this cannot be, and an approach to it even can rarely take place, the question naturally recurs,—At what distance of time after the receipt of the injury or accident can the operation be per- formed most advantageously for the patient 1 45. In order to answer this question distinctly, it should be considered with reference to two distinct states of injury:— 1st. When injuries require amputation of the arm below the shoulder-joint, or of the leg below the knee, these opera- tions may be done at any time from the moment of infliction until after the expiration of twelve or twenty-four hours, without any detriment being sustained by the sufferer with regard to his recovery; although every one, under such cir- cumstances, must be desirous to have the operation over. The surgeon having several equally serious cases of injury of the head or trunk brought to him at the same time as two requiring amputation of the upper extremity, may defer the latter more safely perhaps than the assistance he is also called upon to give to the other cases, the postponement of which may be attended with greater danger. 2nd. This state embraces those great injuries, in which the shoulder is carried away with some injury to the trunk; or the thigh is torn off at or above its middle, ren- dering an amputation of the upper third, or at the hip-joint, necessary. It is this or nearly this state which alone im- plies a doubt as to the propriety of immediate amputation, and demands further investigation. It is the state to which your attention is earnestly drawn for future observation. 46. It has been implied, if not actually maintained, that a man could have his thigh carried away by a cannon-shot