Other illustrative cases. 478 A little light red wine given, with beef-tea and bread; opium night and morning. 6th and 7th.—Much the same; pulse always quick, with much general irritability. 15th.—The wounds discharged considerably, particularly the posterior one; has a little cough; pulse continues very quick; spasms of the diaphragm troubled him for the first time, and gave great pain and uneasiness; they were relieved by opium in large and repeated doses. On the 18th, the spasmodic affection of the diaphragm and the pain returned with great violence, so as to threaten his dissolution, which took place on the 20th. On examination, I found that the ball had passed through the under part of the inferior lobe of the left lung, and through the pericardium, under the heart, through the ten- dinous part of the diaphragm, and into the liver, before it made its exit. The wound in the lung was suppurating; the matter and fluid from the cavity of the chest had a free dis- charge by the shot-hole; the edges of the wound in the diaphragm were smooth, as if cicatrized, leaving between them an elliptical opening an inch long. The injury to the liver was through the substance of the anterior part of its right lobe; the matter having a free discharge, and generally slightly yellow, as if tinged with bile in small quantity. The skin did not show a yellowish tinge, neither was the con- junctiva discoloured. A soldier of the 23rd Regiment was wounded at the same affair, ty a musket-ball, on the right side; it fractured the sixth rib, from three to four inches from the sternum, and passed out behind, between the ninth and tenth ribs, near the spine. The rib being fractured, the splinters were removed after an enlargement of the wound by incision, when the opening into the cavity of the chest was manifest, air being discharged freely from it. The shock in the first instance was great; but after a time reaction took place, and he lost a considerable quantity of blood in six bleedings during the first sixty hours. The discharge, at first serous and bloody, gra- dually became purulent, and the occurrence of jaundice showed that the diaphragm and liver had in all probability