S3 Mr. Luke's Flap Amputation. generally be discovered readily, though not visible before. A stump under these circumstances should not be closed in the first instance; the parts should be merely approximated until all bleeding has ceased. When the operation is performed near the knee, the gradual thickening of the thigh prevents the retraction of the in- teguments, and has an effect upon the vessels of the stump; both of which evils are avoided after the circular incision is completed, by making a cut, of an inch and a half in length, in the integuments through the fascia on each side, in the horizontal direction in which they are recommended to be placed, after the operation is finished; but this will very rarely be necessary. 82. Amputation of the thigh, by the flap operation, is best accomplished by the method adopted by Mr. Luke, of the London Hospital, and which is as follows:—The patient being placed so that the thigh projects beyond the table, the surgeon stands with his left hand towards the body, or on the outside, when amputating the right, and on the inside, when ampu- tating the left, thigh. The knife to be used ought to be narrow, pointed, and longer by two or three inches, than the diameter of the thigh at the place of amputation. The point of the knife should be entered wucZ-distance between the ante rior and posterior surfaces of the thigh, which maybe effected with accuracy, if the eye is brought to a level with the thigh, when the middle point is easily determined. The posterior flap is to be formed first, by carrying the knife transversely through the thigh, so that its point shall come out on the opposite side, exactly midway between the anterior and posterior surfaces. In traversing the thigh, the knife should pass behind the bone, and will be more or less remote from it in different individuals, according to the greater or less de- velopment of the posterior muscles, when, by cutting obliquely downwards, to the extent of from four to six inches, according to the thickness of the thigh, a posterior flap is formed. The anterior flap is effected, not by making a flap, but by com- mencing an incision through the integuments and muscles on the opposite side of the thigh to the surgeon, and at a little distance anterior to the extremity of the posterior flap. This