Wounds of the Diaphragm. 476 admit of it. When protruded, it sometimes happens that the efforts of nature are not sufficient for its retraction, and it remains filling up the opening into the thorax. A large por- tion of lung is rarely protruded, except through an opening, which readily admits of its return; hut when the opening is small, the return of a portion of protruded lung, when it is not positively strangulated, should not be interfered with. The surface of the lung is but little sensible; touching it causes no apparent pain, and its adhesion to the edges of the cut pleura is more advantageous than its separation from it. It should, therefore, be allowed to remain, or be only so far returned, if it can be so managed, as to rest within the edges of the divided pleura, and fill up the gap made by the incision, over which the integuments should be accurately drawn and retained. The adhesion of the lung to the pleura costalis arrests the inflammation, and may prevent its progress to other parts of the cavity. That the inflammation may extend further into the substance of the lung is possible; but when the sufferers are otherwise healthy, the chance of evil from pneumonia is less than from that of the general cavity. Whenever the protruded lung has been completely returned, more inflamma- tion has followed, than where it has been allowed to remain under the precautions recommended. Three cases were brought under my notice at Brussels, after the battle of Waterloo, which were not interfered with, greatly to the advantage of the patients. It is rare, however, to see a pro- trusion of the lung after a gunshot wound. The protruded lung, when left uncovered and unprotected, soon loses its natural brilliancy, dies quickly, shrinks, aud becomes livid, without being gangrenous. In such cases the protruded part may be removed; but it should never be sepa- rated at its base from its attachment to the pleura costalis by which it is surrounded. 351. Wounds of the Diaphragm were known to the older sur- geons, from the time of Pare, who were aware that these wounds were not immediately, although generally, mortal. They knew that the viscera of the abdomen did sometimes pass through such wounds into the cavity of the chest, but they did not know that a wound of the diaphragm never