354 Wound of Dura Malar and Arachnoid Membrane. diet. On the 25th, he complained of pain in his head around the wound, shooting to the back part; pulse 60; pupils dilated. An incision being made to the bone, the pericra- nium was found detached, and the bone fractured, but with- out any obvious depression. V.S. ad 3xx-> calomel and colocynth; as the pain continued the bleeding was repeated in the evening.—26th. Pain in the head greatly relieved; pulse 60; bowels torpid. Ten ounces of blood were taken from the temporal artery, and the calomel and colocynth, salts and senna, were repeated. On the morning of the 29th, symptoms of compression having increased, the trephine was had recourse to, and the fractured portion of bone was removed; a layer of coagulated blood was found on the dura mater, which puffed up into the opening. In the evening he became convulsed, the pulse intermitted, and he died. On examination, a large abscess was found on the right hemi- sphere of the brain, having the ventricle for its base, with some matter on the surface of the brain; and between the dura mater and the bone at the base of the cranium. On the morning of the day that I performed this operation, I had done another of the same kind at the Hopital des Minimes; the dura mater rose up in a similar manner without pulsation into the opening made by the removal of the circular piece of bone by the trephine; on puncturing it a consi- derable quantity of pus oozed out. The opening was enlarged; and the flow of matter was daily encouraged, until it gradually diminished, and ceased with the formation of granulations, and the drawing in and cicatrization of the part. 279. It has been supposed that a wound through the dura mater was particularly dangerous, in consequence of the tunica arachnoides which lines it being a serous membrane; and that, if the inflammation which ensued did not cease at the adhe- sive stage, by the consolidation of the surface which covered the pia mater with that which lined the dura mater, a diffused inflammation would necessarily follow, which might spread over its whole extent. This has not been found practically to be the case; and if a simple wound of the dura mater be a danger that ought to be avoided, the risk run cannot be put in com- parison with that which accompanies the continuous irrita-