Loss of a large portion of the Skull. 369 the year 1686 they took away nearly both parietal bones, and the patient recovered and lived for thirty years afterwards, half his body however being paralysed. Marechal applied the trephine twelve times successfully, Gooch thirteen times, Desportes twelve times. Saviard says, that he had under his care a woman whose parietal bones, together with a great part of the occipital and frontal, separated at the end of two years after a blow; the bones thus separated resembled a calvarium sawn off a dead person. No fungus or hernia took place, and she lived several years. Dr. Drummond, deputy inspector-general of hospitals, has published the case of a seaman belonging to H.M.S. Mutine, who in 1845 fell down some stone steps at Sierra Leone, re- ceiving a contused wound of the scalp, for which he was admitted into the Eoyal Naval Hospital at Plymouth in October of the same year. The bone, which was not supposed to have been injured, was then found to be denuded of its pericranium to some extent (left side of occipital). After an attack of erysipelas, followed by numerous purulent deposits under the scalp, necrosis went on rapidly; there was oozing of pus from beneath the diseased bones, and gaping of the coronal and sagittal sutures, the brain pulsating very distinctly in the spaces. In July, 1846, he was removed to Melville Naval Hospital at Chatham. During the six years he has been under observation, there have been repeated attacks of ery- sipelas, followed by profuse suppuration. Both tables of the bones have suffered in some places; in others only the external About five square inches have been lost from the right side ot the frontal, right parietal, and squamous part of the right temporal. The whole of the occipital to within a short space of the foramen magnum is deficient, with the exception of about two inches in the centre of the bone, which are now undergoing the process of separation. On the left side Dr Drumrnond adds, there has been less destruction of the bones' but extensive caries was going on there, and foetid pus was' being discharged from several openings at the date when the case was reported (April, 1851.) At no point was there any tendency to reproduction of bone, or arrest of the disease 291. The removal of a large portion of the skull may be neces-