Illustrative Oases. 21G the left thigh by a duck-shot, which entered about three inches below Poupart's ligament, and a little to the inner side of the femoral artery. He bled until he fainted, and was taken home. There was no return of the bleeding for three days, during which time the limb was exceedingly painful, and soon began to enlarge. After this time occasional and consider- able bleedings took place, the limb still continuing to increase in size. Fomentations and poultices were applied; irritative fever set in, and the pain was intense. At the end of a fortnight the small hole made by the shot appeared to be healed over by a thin skin of a blue colour, which tint extended for some distance. The limb was enormously swollen, with a feeling of distention, which induced the surgeon to puncture the most prominent part with a lancet. After some clots of blood had been removed, an alarming arterial haemorrhage took place. The femoral artery was now tied high up, below Poupart's ligament. The bleeding was in some measure restrained, but not suppressed, and after a short time returned at intervals with augmented violence, until death ensued, three weeks after the accident. Remarks.—If an incision had been made into the tbigh in the course of the wound when the bleeding returned on the third day, and both ends of the wounded artery had been tied, the boy would in all probability have recovered. The ligature placed on the femoral artery above the wound in it did restrain for a short time the flow of blood, but could not prevent its flowing from perhaps both ends of the vessel, until it destroyed the patient. A ligature on the external iliac would only have caused it to be deferred for a day or two, until the collateral branches had enlarged, or else he would have died of mortifi- tion. This really formidable case shows most distinctly the neces- sity for always observing the rule of tying the wounded artery at the part injured, in order that the mistake may not be made of placing a ligature on the wrong artery—the constriction of which may cost the patient his life, whilst it may not prevent a return of the bleeding. It also shows that no loss of blood from a diffused aneurism can equal the danger which must be encountered, and the mistakes which may be made, by not