228 Amputation not always necessary after Mortification. tongue foul; the countenance sunken; the skin hot; the head wandering. Poultices of linseed-meal and stale beer were applied, with gentle stimulating applications. Brandy and wine were ordered in proper quantities every hour or two, with suf- ficient doses of the muriate of morphia at night to allay irri- tation and induce sleep. The incision, together with these remedies, gave great relief, and on the 7th the man seemed to have been saved from a state of the most imminent danger. On the 8th, the pulse was 112, the tongue clean, the skin of a whiter colour, the bowels opened by injections; eight ounces of brandy were given in the twenty-four hours; wine, with sago, arrowroot, jelly, oranges, and anything he chose to ask for. The greatest cleanliness was observed, and the chloride of lime was used in profusion all around him. The mortifica- tion of the limb was complete; a line of separation formed about four inches below the knee in front, and extended behind towards the ham. On the 26th, the dead parts having almost entirely separated from the bones all round, those which remained were cut through where dead, the bones were sawn about five inches below the knee, and the lower part of the limb removed, leaving an irregular, and, in part, granulating stump, with an inch of bone projecting from it. On the 24th of May, this portion was found to be loose; diluted nitric acid had been applied to its surface, and on the 20th of June it separated. On the 16th of August, Cook left the hospital in good health, with a very good stump, having cost the hospital £57 in extra diet. In this case, there can be little doubt of the popliteal artery having been torn, and if the incision made on the 2nd had been had recourse to during the first two or three days, and the artery sought for, and secured if found bleeding, it is possible the mortification might have been prevented; although it is probable, from the pressure arising from the great extravasation and coagulation of blood, that the collateral circulation was so much impeded as not to have been able to maintain the life of the limb below, even during that time. The incision made on the 7th saved the life of the patient, by taking off the tension of the part, and relieving thereby, in a remarkable manner, the constitu- tional irritation which hourly appeared likely to destroy him;