39 Erysipelatous Inflammation. considerable loss of blood; and by the removal of any pressure which the fascia might cause on the swollen parts beneath. 25. Erysipelatous inflammation is marked by a rose or yellowish redness, tending in bad constitutions, to brown, or even to purple, in all cases terminating by a defined edge on the white surrounding skin. It frequently spreads with great rapidity, so that the limb, and even the whole skin of the body, may be in time affected by it; the redness subsiding, and even disappearing in one part, whilst it extends in another direction. When this inflammation attacks young and otherwise healthful persons of apparently good constitutions, it should be treated by emetics, purgatives, and diaphoretics, in the first instance, with perhaps, in some cases, bleeding. When the habit of body is not supposed to be healthy, bleeding is inadmissible; and stimulating diaphoretics, combined with camphor and ammonia, will be found more beneficial after emetics and purgatives; and these remedies may in turn be followed by quinine and the mineral acids, with the infusion and tincture of bark. Little reliance can be placed on large doses of cinchona in powder, which nau- seate and therefore distress. When the inflammation extends deeper than the skin, into the areolar or cellular tissue, it partakes more of the nature of the healthy suppurative inflammation commonly called phlegmonous, is accompanied by the formation of matter, and tends to the sloughing or death of this tissue at an early period. The redness, in this case, is of a brighter colour, although equally diffuse, and with a determined edge; the limb is more swollen, tense, and soon becomes quagmiry to the touch. The skin is then undermined, and soon loses its life, becomes gangrenous in spots, and separates, giving exit to the slough and matter, which now pervade the whole extremity affected. If the patient survive, it is probably with the loss of the whole of the skin and cellular substance of the limb. As soon as the inflamed part communicates the springy fluctuating sensation approaching to, but not having arrived at the quagmiry feel alluded to, an incision should be made into it, when the areolae or cells of the cellular tissue will be seen of a light leaden colour, and of a gela-