Gun-shot Wounds of the Foot. 103 until it has divided into its plantar branches; and he insists, with reason, that the operation should be done exactly as he has described it. It is an operation more likely to be emi- nently successful in military than in domestic surgery, from the parts being sound in the former, with the exception of the injury for which it is performed. Domestic Surgery, or that of civil life, has in these opera- tions of excision of the ankle-joint, and of amputation at that part, repaid her Amazonian sister of military warfare for the improvements she has introduced into the great art and science of surgery; and a degree of generous emulation will be excited and maintained between them, which, it may be believed, will, in the event of a European war, add much to its scientific and preservative character. 95. A musket-ball will seldom pass through the foot without injuring a joint of some kind, or wounding a tendon or nerve; and the injury to, the fascia, which is very strong on the sole of the foot, and frequently covered by much thickened integu- ment, is always attended with inconvenience. The extraction of balls, of splinters of bone, of pieces of cloth, and the dis- charge of matter, become more difficult, and often cause so much disease as ultimately to render amputation of the foot necessary. Tetanus is a frequent consequence of these in- juries, and is a disease, in its acute form, certainly irremediable by any operation or medicine at present known. Amputation has always failed in my hands, although it was strongly re- commended by Baron Larrey. The operative surgery of the foot should be done as soon after the injury as it can be con- veniently accomplished, for a large, clean, incised wound is a safe one, compared with a torn surface and splintered bone, with extraneous substances, of much less extent; and as a ball lodged in the foot is always very dangerous, great attention should be paid in the examination of even slight wounds. A cannon-shot can seldom strike the foot without destroying it altogether; it may, however, strike the heel, and destroy a considerable part of the os calcis, without rendering amputa- tion necessary, if the ankle-joint be untouched; for by due attention in removing the spicula of bone at first, and by making free openings for the discharge of matter in every