190 Retraction and Contraction of an Artery. inferior part of the thigh, are different from those employed at the upper or opposite extremity. The retraction or contraction of the lower end of a divided artery is neither so perfect nor so permanent as at its upper end, and the small internal coagulum is in many instances altogether wanting, or very defective in its formation. The closure of the lower ori- fice being less perfectly accomplished than the upper, it is the most likely to suffer from secondary haemorrhage, which may be distinguished from thatfrom the upper end of the artery at an early period after the accident, by the venous colour of the blood, and from its flowing or welling out in a continuous stream, as water rises from a spring, and not with an arterial impulse. The retracting and contracting powers in the lower end of a divided artery are nevertheless considerable, and are sufficient in some cases to nearly close the lower end of the femoral artery when divided by amputation above the knee. When the femoral artery is cut across, the lower portion of the vessel is emptied by its last efforts, combined with the action of the capillaries. When the collateral circulation is power- ful, blood soon regurgitates into the artery, but the force of the regurgitation can be in no proportion to that of the pro- pulsion at the other or upper divided end of the vessel, which will generally be able to resist this impulse, whilst the lower one often opens and bleeds after the lapse of a few days. In all the cases I have had an opportunity of examining, in which haemorrhage had taken place from the lower end of the artery, the followiug appearances were observable after the interval of four to five days:— The same kind of yellowish-green matter marks and conceals the situation of the lower extremity of the artery in the wound as it does the upper. It is however thinner where it immediately covers the end of the artery, which in none of these cases was contracted in the conical manner described as taking place in the upper extremity. On the introduction of a probe with the greatest gentleness into the artery from below, it usually makes its appearance at a point on the yellow space, raising a thin portion as it protrudes. On laying open the artery, the orifice would seem to have been once closed by this layer of