The first improvement received with difficulty. 7 which restores to these officers the rights and privileges of which many of them had been deprived in the former one, the power of nominating annually two persons, and two only, to the fellowship without examination. They did so, I believe, with especial reference to their members in the army and navy, who, going into the public service at two-and-twenty years of age, were often absent for several years, and could not, in many instances, have the opportunity of being re- examined for the fellowship at twenty-six; and that, as submitting to such examination after twenty years of service, and the acquirement, perhaps, of great consideration, might be felt as derogatory to their merits as it was painful to their feelings, the Council appear to have decided on granting these fellowships on such merit and consideration being duly made known to and appreciated by them. It does not follow that they will be granted annually unless deserved, neither are they, I presume, entirely reserved for the surgeons of the public service of the country; but I venture to think they will be granted very sparingly to those who, having had oppor- tunities year after year, of seeking the required examina- tions, shall have neglected to avail themselves of them. The first effort for the improvement of surgery made in the Peninsular army, was the publication, in 1811, of a paper on wounded arteries, which I sent to London after the battle of Albuhera, a village so called from the number of mills around it; Albuhera, with an h, being Spanish for a mill. The principles, the practice, and the facts intended to be inculcated in that paper were in direct opposition to those which had been deduced from the writings of the great John Hunter and his immediate successors. It was the mouse against the mountain. I had every surgeon in that army against me, except those who served under me, and every one throughout all Europe. My paper was read, and even referred to by writers. The cases related were, however, considered ex- ceptions, confirming thereby the rules more generally re- ceived. At this moment, at the end of forty years, all England, all civilized Europe and America, acknowledge that paper to be the foundation of the principles and the practice of the present day; and whenever success may by accident