Two great Principles of Treatment. 188 13th. The great principles of surgery to be observed in cases of wounded arteries, and which ought never to be absent from the mind of the surgeon, are two in number:— 1. That no operation ought to be performed on a wounded artery unless it bleeds. 2. That no operation is to be done for a wounded artery in the first instance but at the spot injured, unless such operation not only appears to be, but is, impracticable. 183. The means adopted by nature for the suppression of haemorrhage have been investigated by Celsus, Rufus, Galen, (Etius, &c, down to Dr. Jones, the most important English writer on this subject; but the methods of inquiry they all adopted appear to have been insufficient and unequal to the object in view. They bled an animal until he died, and then reasoned on the manner or means by which the bleeding was suppressed, when it was in fact arrested by death. It is obvious then that it is only when Nature has not been interfered with, and the patient has not died from bleeding continued to the last moment, but has, on the contrary, lived some time after the haemorrhage has ceased, that the pro- cesses by which its suppression has been accomplished can be fairly investigated. These processes essentially depend on the size and variations of structure in an artery, which have been shown to be dissimilar in large and small arteries, and not even quite alike in the upper and lower ends of the same artery — facts which were elicited from observations made on man on the field of battle during the Peninsular war, and consequently not liable to error. It was then proved that arteries of moderate dimensions, such as the middle part of the femoral or the axillary, tibial or brachial,and particularly all below these in size, are capable by their own intrinsic powers when completely divided, of arresting the passage of the blood through them without any assistance from art, or from the surrounding parts in which they are situated. The establishment of this fact overthrew at once the theory which relates to the importance of, and necessity for, the sheath of the vessel, and the offices it performs in suppress- ing haemorrhage in vessels of this size, and in a great measure.