457 Case of Colonel Dumaresq. me, almost immediately after receiving the wound, some blood was intermixed with the saliva. I became extremely faint, ^ and remained so about an hour and a half, after which I rode four or five miles, to the village of Waterloo, where I was bled, which relieved me from the great difficulty I had in breathing; this difficulty was accompanied by a severe pain down my neck, chest, and right side. I was much easier until the evening of the 19th; but in the course of the night the difficulty of breathing becoming much greater, and the spasmodic affection having very much increased, I was bled seven times, until the middle of the next day.—20th. I con- tinued better, but was then seized with the most violent spasms in my neck, chest, and stomach imaginable. I could scarcely breathe at all, and was in the greatest possible pain; I was again bled twice very largely, and my stomach and chest fomented for a length of time with warm water and flannels. I passed a very tolerable night, and continued pretty well until two o'clock the following day, when I was again very largely bled, by which I was very much relieved. I continued pretty well, and free from much pain; but my pulse having very much increased, and having a good deal of fever, on the 23rd was bled again; after this I continued free from much pain or difficulty of respiration, and on the 26 th was moved into Bruxelles, when I came under your care. I forgot to mention that when I was so violently attacked I had two lavements most vigorously applied; salts, &c, proving of no avail, took digitalis, commencing ten drops every four hours, and increasing to fifteen from the second day. KB.—Up to this period, the 2nd of July, the devil a bit have 1 eaten. Whilst with fat mutton-chops, and nice loins of veal, You stuff your d—d guts, your hearts are all steel, Oh! ye doctors and potecaries, you'll all go to hell, For cheating poor tripes of their daily meal. H. Dumaresq. The ball in this case was lodged in the rib, which ulti- mately became thickened around it. He recovered with good health, but with occasional spasms in the chest; and died of apoplexy, in Australia, twenty-five years afterwards. His doggerel lines show the buoyant and unconquerable spirit of a n a