583 Conclusions. restrain the protrusion of the contents of the cavity; the occurrence of such a case is very rare. 8. Purgatives should be eschewed ia the early part of the treatment of penetrating wounds of the abdomen. Enemata are to be preferred. 9. The omentum, when protruded, is to be returned, by enlarging the wound through its aponeurotic parts if neces- sary, but not through the peritoneum, in preference to allowing it to remain protruded, or to be cut off. 10. A punctured intestine requires no immediate treatment. An intestine when incised to an extent exceeding the third part of an inch should be sewn up by the continuous suture in the manuer recommended, aph. 391. 11. The position of the patient should be inclined towards the wounded side, to allow of the omentum or intestine being closely applied to the cut edges of the peritoneum. Absolute rest, without the slightest motion, should be observed. Food and drink should be restricted, when not entirely forbidden. 12. If the belly swell, and the propriety of allowing extravasaled or effused matters to be evacuated seem to be manifest, the continuous suture or stitches should be cut across to a certain extent, for the purpose of giving this relief. 13. If the punctured or incised wound be small, and the extravasation or effusion within the cavity seem to be great, the wound should be carefully enlarged, and the offending matter evacuated. 14. A wound should not be closed until it has ceased to bleed, or until the bleeding vessel has been secured, if it be possible to do so. When it is not possible so to do, the wound should be closed, and the result awaited. 15. A gunshot wound penetrating the cavity can never unite, and must suppurate. If a wounded intestine can be seen or felt, its torn edges may be cut off, and the clean surfaces united by suture. If the wound can neither be seen nor felt, it will be sufficient for the moment to provide for the free discharge of any extravasated or effused matters which may require removal. 16. A dilatation or enlargement of a wound in the abdomen