406 Place of Operation. each, being expected to die of an abscess in the lungs, de- clared to be incurable, went into battle for the purpose of getting himself killed, but being only run through the body, they all recovered, in consequence of the escape of the purulent matter through the holes thus made. The operation was performed by Hippocrates and his successors, by the knife, by caustic, and by the hot iron. Ambrose Pare was the first who recommended a trocar and canula, and many instances of success in all ways are recorded. The modern methods are by the trocar and canula and by incision. When- ever auscultation, percussion, or succussion, give reason to believe that a fluid is collected, which medicine has not been nor is able to remove, the simple operation by the trocar and canula should be performed. If fluid should pass through the small canula, generally used by way of exploration, a larger one may be introduced in its place, if thought advisable. In ordinary cases, the little wound-should be closed imme- diately after the evacuation of the fluid; it usually heals without difficulty, and the operation may be repeated, if necessary. Care should be taken that the point of the instru- ment is perfectly sharp, or it may separate the thickened false membrane from the inside wall of the chest, and, by pushing it before it, prevent the fluid from passing through the canula when the trocar is withdrawn. 317. The place of election, in England, for a puncture, in ordi- nary cases, is usually between the fifth and sixth ribs, counting from above, and between the sixth and seventh from below, and at one-third the distance from the spinous processes of the vertebra? ; or two-thirds from the middle of the sternum. If there should be any protrusion of the intercostal spaces, it may be a rib or two lower. The point of the instrument should be introduced a little nearer the lower than the upper rib, and pressed on until all resistance has been overcome. It is entered nearer the lower rib, to avoid the intercostal artery, and yet not touching the rib, lest it should induce a too forcible contraction of the intercostal muscles, by which the operator might be inconvenienced. If the person should be very fat, or the puffing of the integuments considerable, it may not be easy to feel the ribs,