Protrusion of Bone. 85 to be retained in position by one or two strips of plaster, and supported by a bandage applied carefully around the stump. If this be properly accomplished, the whole sur- faces of the flaps will be kept accurately in contact with each other, and complete union may be reasonably expected. By securing the perfect apposition and support of the entire sur- faces in accurate contact, the disposition to the issue of blood from small vessels is also obviated to a great extent; and it is even probable that vessels of a larger diameter than the smallest, which would bleed if not restrained, are, by the pressure of the opposing surface, prevented from doing so, and the probability of secondary haemorrhage is diminished. Experience has demonstrated the fact, that primary union of the flaps is most effectually secured in the great majority of amputations thus treated. Indeed, non-union of the flaps is the exception—union, the rule. In the subsequent treatment of the stump, care must be taken to prevent accumulation of discharge in the tracks of the ligatures; and the dressings must be renewed according to circumstances having reference to the quantity of discharge, and the uneasiness of the patient. The line of division of the integuments of the two flaps is situated, at first, in the centre of the face of the stump; but when the flaps have united, a gradual change takes place in the position of the cicatrix: it recedes, by degrees, to the posterior aspect of the thigh, and the bone abuts upon the anterior flap, by which alone it is eventually covered, and the cicatrix is thus removed from its pressure. (See Fig. 1, lower figure.) 83. A protrusion of bone is a disagreeable occurrence after amputation; it will sometimes happen after sloughing of the stump, without any fault in the operator. If, on completing the operation, it is evident the bone cannot be well covered, a sufficient portion should be at once sawn off, and the error remedied. When the bone protrudes at a subsequent period to the extent of an inch or more, it should be removed by opera- tion, an incision being made on, and down to, the bone, and ' the saw applied where it is sound. The chain saw when at hand, answers well,and some should be supplied for the use of I