Wounds of the Spleen. 561 actually necessary. When the substance does not protrude, although it can be felt through the wall of the stomach, it will be advisable, if possible, to draw it towards the upper or smaller curvature of the stomach rather than to the lower, avoiding the coronary vessels, and taking a medium distance for the opening from the cardiac orifice, and thereby such advantage as may be derived from gravitation. The wound in the stomach should be united by the continuous suture, and the external wound should be closed in a similar manner. The patient ought to be kept in bed in an easy erect position. 210. Injuries of the spleen have been usually fatal, from haemorrhage filling the general cavity of the abdomen, espe- cially when they have arisen from rupture of that organ, which I have several times seen occur in consequence of falls, or from blows from cannon-shot, which have not opened into the cavity or exposed the viscus. Wounds from inusket-balls have for the most part destroyed the sufferers, either from haemorrhage or from inflammation. I have not seen nor heard, during the Peninsular war, of a wound in the abdomen through which the spleen protruded, the patient recover- ing. Instances have occurred in which this part has been removed in man after its exposure by injury. A case is said to have taken place after the battle of Dettingen, in which the spleen, covered with dirt, was cut off, and the patient recovered. In another case the spleen, found without the wound at the end of twenty-four hours, was cold, black, and mortified. The surgeon placed a ligature above this part, and cut off three inches and a half of the spleen; a large artery was tied, and the remaining portion of the viscus was returned into the cavity of the belly, the ligature hanging to it, and the patient got well. Wounds from stabs with a bayonet, or a sabre or long- pointed sword, are frequently fatal, either from haemorrhage or from inflammation; but I have seen accidentally, after death, cicatrices in the spleen corresponding to external marks, indicative of a former wound. The treatment in all such cases should be to encourage the discharge of blood from the part in the first instance; then to close the external wound if an incised one, to place the patient on the injured