20 Result of Fractures of the Thigh at Toulouse. thigh or an arm bone more certain]}' and effectively than shot No. 20, of which I have some doubts, being under the impres- sion that one will, under similar circumstances, do quite as much mischief as the other—at all events, as much as will place the sufferer hors de combat for several months, or even years, unless he should die, or suffer amputation. It may not be doubted, that when ball 20 would only touch a thigh-bone, without breaking it, that ball 16, by reason of its greater diameter, might break it. A question then will arise, How many broken thighs and arms occur in a hundred cases of wounds ? After the battle of Toulouse, 1242 wounded were received into hospital, not including 117 officers: of these, 78 were with broken arms and legs; 43 of the number bad broken thighs: of these, 20 died, 7 having suffered amputation; 5 others suffered amputation and survived, and 18 were sent to England. Of the 18 thus sent, 5 only, it is stated in my report as the Deputy Inspector General in charge of all the sick and wounded can be considered well, or using their limbs; two more think their limbs more valuable or serviceable than a wooden leg; the remaining 11 wish they had been amputated at first, as they are not likely to do well, and if they recover, their limbs will be unserviceable. It is possible that ball No. 16 might have added a case or two more for the reason assigned; but it appears to me that the French ball No. 20 did as good service as the most bar- barous of mankind could desire. I have had the charge of more wounded of the French army at different times than any other person; the battle of Salamanca gave me 300 that no one else would have, in addi- tion to 500 British; and as the French government take more care about the means of transport for sick and wounded soldiers than the British,* they were always the worst cases that fell into my hands, and I cannot say the wounds made bv * At this moment there is not a cart or wagon belonging to the British army fit to carry an artilleryman with a broken thigh from Hyde-park to the hospital at Woolwich, without putting him to intense pain ; and in all pro- bability sending the broken ends of his thi^h bone through the skin, and thus making the case ten times more dangerous, more particularly if the road should be in process of macadamization or repair. The old-fashioned