Ligature of the Radial Artery. 285 deep fasciae are to be divided, when the artery and its veins •will be exposed; the nerve has not accompanied the artery to this part, where it lies on the pronator quadratus, whence it turns below the styloid process of the radius, to the back of the hand. The radial artery, on giving off the superficialis volaa to the palm of the hand, near the end of the radius, inclines out- wards, and when between its styloid process and the trapezium, lies beneath the two first extensors of the thumb. Passing onwards to reach the angle formed by the metacarpal bones of the thumb and forefinger, it lies first in a triangular space between these two extensor muscles and the third, in which situation a ligature may readily be placed upon it by a simple incision. Proceeding onwards, the artery passes under the third extensor, and lies to the outside of it, where it may also be secured by ligature without difficulty, just before it dips into the palm, and gives off the principal artery to the thumb. After the radial artery has reached the inside of the hand, to form the deep-seated palmar arch, it crosses the metacarpal bones nearly at a right angle, covered by all the muscles, tendons, and nerves of the palm. A branch of the ulnar nerve going to the muscles of the thumb, joins it at this part. If the graduated compression, recommended in Aphorism 208, page 238, together with due pressure on the radial and ulnar arteries at the wrist, should fail to arrest the bleeding from a wound at this part, and even if a ligature on the brachial artery should prove insufficient, the two muscles forming what may be called the web between the thumb and fore-finger should be divided, until the wounded artery can be seen. These muscles are the adductor pollicis on the inside, and the' adductor indicis on the back of the hand; and their division would lead to little or no inconvenience. If a man, in opening an oyster, were to divide these muscles by an accidental thrust of his knife, it would not be considered a serious accident.