Illustrative Cases. 557 BB B 2 I had hopes the ball would some day pass through the open- ing thus made, and had thoughts of enlarging the external wound, and of endeavouring to extract the ball with a long pair of forceps. He ceased at last to pay his annual visit, and I suspect he died in one of the attacks I have alluded to. This ball must have passed very close to, if it did not penetrate, the gall-bladder. I have never had the opportunity of extracting a ball from the liver during life, although I have seen persons live many weeks into whose livers balls had penetrated; and I have been acquainted with three persons who had been wounded through the liver, and to whom little subsequent inconvenience was occasioned. 406. Portions of the liver have been removed in some in- stances; in one case, related by Blanchard,a small piece of liver was removed with the forceps. The patient dying of fever three years afterwards, a small piece of the liver near the external wound, was found wanting. Dieflfenbach gives a case in which a small protruded portion was cut off with scissors, without any bad consequence. Dr. Macpherson, in the London Medical Gazette for January, 1846, has related the case of a Hindoo, a large piece of whose liver protruded through a wound an inch in length, made by a spear in the right hypochondriac region. A ligature was applied tightly around its base, and the piece cut off, rather than make such enlargement of the wound as might allow of the restoration of the protruded liver. The arteries bled from the cut surface, and required to be tied, and a double ligature was put through the stump of liver and tied on each side. The part was not pushed back into the abdomen, but allowed to remain in the wound. The symptoms were mild, the ligatures came away on the ninth day, and the man returned to his home in three weeks. These cases may be considered exceptions to the general rule, which directs the return of all protruding parts. The retention of the part from which the piece was cut off, within the divided parts of the wound, was agreeable to the principles I have inculcated with respeot to wounds of all the cavities 407. Wounds of the stomach are usually fatal, although some persons escape when these injuries are confined to its anterior