510 Wounds of the Abdomen. ception to this rule, being an involuntary organ, with mixed fibres differing in size, resembling in this respect those of a voluntary muscle. The peritoneal coat is formed of the white fibres, under a structureless or basement membrane, covered by tesselated epithelium, constituting a serous and secreting membrane. 376. Wounds and injuries of the abdomen are essentially of three kinds:—1. Affecting the paries or wall; 2. Opening or extending into its cavity; 3. Wounding or injuring its con- tents. The wall of the belly is, when severely hurt, liable to a permanent defect, as the ordinary result of a severe bruise. It is the formation of a ventral rupture. A division of the wall to any extent, by a sharp, cutting instrument, is usually followed by a similar consequence; and it never fails to occur iu the openings made by a musket-ball penetrating into or passing through the cavity. Captain Tarleton, of the 7th or Royal Fusiliers, was struck on the left iliac region by a large flat piece of a shell, at the battle of Albuhera, in 1811. The surface was not abraded, although the iron caused a very severe and painful bruise; the whole of that side of the belly becoming quite black, and the remaining part much discoloured. Some months after- wards he drew my attention to the part, and I then found that the whole of the muscular portion of the wall had been removed by absorption to the extent of the immediate injury from the piece of shell, the tendinous parts alone remaining under the integuments. These protruded on any effort, con- stituting a circular-shaped ventral rupture, with a large base, and required the application of a pad and bandage for its repression. Mr. Smith, a deputy-purveyor, received a blow on the side of the fore-part of the belly from the end of a spauker- boom, which knocked him down, and gave rise for some time to much inconvenience. He showed the part to me in Lisbon, in 1813, in consequence of the formation of a ventral hernia to the extent of the spot originally injured. In neither of these cases was such a result expected; no rupture of the