Illustrative Cases. 537 which the usual operation was performed. Everything went on favourably till the morning of the fourth day after the operation, when he made a sudden effort to go to the close- stool, which was immediately followed by the descent of a considerable portion of intestine and omentum, accompanied with profuse haemorrhage from a small artery on the surface of the intestine, which was taken up and tied, and the parts returned into the abdominal cavity. The greatest excitement followed, with every symptom of acute inflammation. These were treated by general bleeding to the extent of fifty ounces, and sixty leeches to the abdomen, with other antiphlogistic remedies. On the morning of the seventeenth day from the performance of the operation, a piece of intestine came away with the fcecal contents of the bowels, after which the patient experienced relief in all his symptoms, and appeared to gain health and strength, and after a time the wound seemed dis- posed to close, three weeks after the sloughing of the intestine. On the sixth day afterwards the evacuations ceased, attended with acute tenderness of the abdomen, which began to swell fast. The means adopted had not the slightest effect, and the patient was considered past relief, unless it could be obtained by an external opening. I accordingly made an incision over the site of the former wound, and carefully opened the intes- tine, to the extent only to allow the tube of the stomach-pump to be inserted, when there was an immediate discharge of flatus and some fceculent matter, and the patient expressed himself relieved. By the further use of the stomach-pump apparatus I was enabled to extract a quantity of fceculent matter by the artificial opening, and after some hours the patient was completely relieved from the dangerous symptoms he was suffering from. The artificial opening was left patent for two months, when the bowels again gave evidence of acting naturally. The artificial wound was not, however, closed till the 22nd of August, 1845, a week after the bowels' appeared to act freely and naturally. The patient from this time got well and strong, and was discharged to his duty upon the 10th of October, 1845, since which period he has continued to perform all the duties of a soldier most efficiently, and without experiencing any incon-