388 Effects of Inflammation. separated by a liquid. It is a sound which cannot exist after separation has taken place by the intervention of a fluid, or after adhesions have formed ; it is, therefore, an early and transitory sign, is frequently interrupted, and returns, as if by jerks, three or four times, repeated in succession. The pleura when examined, after being attacked by inflammation, shows, at first, but little sign of derangement on its serous surface. It quickly, however, exhibits numberless small vessels, carrying red blood, which are principally seated in the sub-serous cellular tissue, reddening the membrane more deeply in one part than another. These soon begin to take on a new action, leading to the deposition of coagulable lymph or fibrine, which adheres to the inflamed surfaces. These deposits soon assume the determinate form of very thin layers, constituting what are called false membranes; whilst a serous or sero-purulent effusion takes place, even to filling the cavity of the chest, and which may or may not be ulti- mately absorbed. When coagulable lymph is first deposited, and about to form a false membrane, it is soft, of a greyish- white colour, and does not possess any appearances of organi- zation. Red points are, after a time, perceived in it, which soon become red lines or streaks, on the surface. This organization of the lymph does not depend on the period which has elapsed from the commencement of the complaint. It is seen in the first day of the disease in some cases; it is altogether absent in others, and depends much on the state and habit of the patient. The lymph is sometimes deposited in small drops or spots ; in others, in patches of a greater or less size, varying according to the extent of the inflammation which has produced them. When a false membrane is once fully formed, it becomes itself a secreting surface, and may go on augmenting its thickness to so great a degree as materially to diminish the cavity of the chest. I have seen the pleura with a solid deposit of this kind much more than an inch in thickness. In general, it is found in distinct layers, super- imposed one upon the other. Whatever may be their thick- ness, they commonly admit of being separated from each other. The false membranes thus formed, resembling areolar tissue in their properties, may ultimately become cartila-