528 Effusion of Blood into the Abdomen. less important, the blood usually gravitates towards the back, or sinks into the pelvis. It is possible that blood may be effused in small quantity, and be then confined under the general pressure of the wall of the abdomen, and the resist- ance offered by its contents, to a particular spot, whence it may be absorbed after coagulation; or, by commencing de- composition, give rise to irritation, and be discharged through the external wound, if one should exist, or through the bowel with which it may happily be in contact. A soldier, belonging to the 2nd division of Infantry, was wounded by the Polish Lancers, at the battle of Albuhera, in several places slightly, and in the abdomen severely, a pene- trating wound having been made an inch long, between the umbilicus and the crest of the ilium, on the left side. Brought to me the day after at Valverde, the edges of the wound were stitched together and dressed simply. He said it had bled freely at first, and was then painful. Treated antiphlogistically and sharply, the inflammatory symptoms gradually subsided. The bowels were relieved by gentle aperients, there being no reason to suppose they had been wounded. A small oval swelling was soon perceived under the wound, which was tender to the touch, indicating mischief of some kind. The edges of the wound, which did not unite fully, although they were retained in contact, at last separated, and allowed about a wine-glass full of bloody matter to pass out, which reduced the swelling, and removed the uneasiness and pain of which he complained. After this he gradually recovered, and was discharged to Elvas, and thence to Lisbon. 389. Whenever large effusions of blood have occurred the sufferers have usually been lost, from the occurrence of peri- toneal inflammation. That small ones may be absorbed can- not be doubted. I have seen instances of their having been discharged by the bowel, although I have never been so fortunate as to see a general formation of matter from effu- sion, and to have opened the abdomen for the evacuation of its contents with success; nevertheless I do contemplate that such cases may occur, aud surgery may come to their relief with good effect. The important conclusions to be deduced from the observa-