563 Wounds of the Kidney. the fire, he desired to make water, and then passed what appeared to him to be a quantity of blood. Carried to the rear on a wagon, for three leagues, he suffered beyond de- scription; passed bloody water again, and on his arrival in quarters was bled, and had an enema administered. He then became delirious; was bled several times, had blisters applied to the abdomen; suffered from pain at the top of the right shoulder, and took no other nourishment but tea for fourteen days. He gradually recovered, and at the end of seven weeks was sent to England. After remaining some time in London he joined the depot of his regiment. In consequence of this exertion, he suffered an attack of fever and peritoneal inflam- mation; and a tumour formed in the site of the posterior wound, which was opened, and discharged several ounces of matter of an urinous odour. Another abscess formed, and was opened. During this time he suffered great pain, became greatly emaciated; the urine diminished in quantity with the frequent calls to pass it. He lingered in this state until the end of July. The flow of matter from the wound was great, and had an urinous smell. The desire to make water was incessant; but it passed only by drops, and brought him to a state of frenzy; the discharge from the wounds, which had been lessening for two days before, suddenly stopped; the pain and pressure of urine become intolerable; he remained at last in a state of the greatest torture for about three minutes, when, during an effort, a burst of urine took place, coloured with blood, forcing out with it a hard lump, shaped like a short, thick shrimp, three quarters of an inch long, which proved to be next day, when examined, the cloth which had been driven in by the ball. It must have passed from the pelvis of the kidney or the ureter into the bladder. It was hard, was covered by a black crust, and was thought to be a stone when passed. It could not, however, have been long in the bladder, or it would have been covered by the triple phosphates, and have formed the nucleus of a calculus, re- quiring to be removed by operation. Le Capitaine Negre, of the French Infantry of the Line, was struck on the left side above the hip, at the battle of Albuhera, by a musket-ball, which went through the upper