551 Artificial Anus. internal opening at the apex of the V, if small, would be made into a sort of funnel, whilst the outer incision would remove all the hardened fistulous parts, an operation which sometimes requires to be done when the external opening is not free, and foecal matters have insinuated themselves between the aponeurotic parts, giving rise to abscesses and other small fistulous openings in different directions. It is necessary to bear the formation of this pouch in mind, as well as that of the valve, in order to understand the operations proposed for the relief or cure of this complaint. If simple compression fail in the first instance to prevent the passage of the faeces, which never can be thoroughly con- trolled from the want of a sphincter, and the uncertainty of pressure, the method of Desault may be adopted. This con- sists in gradually dilating the external wound, so as to enable the operator to discover the open ends of the bowel, when a tent is to be introduced into the inferior end, and afterwards into the upper, being fastened by a thread passed around its middle. A pyramidal-shaped pad is then to be placed over the opening, and compression made by bandage upon it so as to press the whole inwards. The size of the tent is to be gradually enlarged, until the contents of the gut begin to pass downwards with ease, when a well-adjusted pressure is to be made on the fistulous opening only, to prevent all oozing from it, until the internal parts have had time to close. 403. Dupuytren invented a pair of forceps, consisting of a male and female branch, to be applied separately, on each side of the valve, or eperon, to the extent of an inch, or an inch and a half at most, when they were to be closed by a screw, until they had compressed the part between them sufficiently to destroy its life. The separation of the valve included within the forceps would take place by the usual processes of ulcera- tion in its immediate proximity, and by adhesion of the parts external to the bowels to those surrounding them. The inflammation, however, did not always stop at the adhe- sive stage, and death has been the result, as well as a succes- ful cure. 404. Mr. Trant invented an instrument he calls a propeller, for pressing back the eperon, an account of which is given in