282 Ligature of the Brachial Artery. 238. The brachial artery, a little below the bend of the arm, divides into the radial and ulnar arteries, the radial being the continuation of the brachial in direction, the ulnar in size. The brachial artery, at the bend of the arm, is cushioned on the brachialis internus muscle, having the tendon of the biceps on the outside, the median nerve on its inside, which is at first continued on the same side of the artery, which now takes the name of ulnar. This vessel inclines towards the ulna for about an inch, and then passes between the two origins of the pronator radii teres muscle; the median nerve crosses it at this part to get into the middle of the arm, and is then separated from it by the ulnar origin of the muscle. The artery continues its course, inclining outwardly, under the pronator radii teres, the flexor carpi radialis, the palmaris longus, and the flexor sublimis muscles, lying on the flexor profundus. On clearing the ulnar edge of the flexor sublimis, it is covered by the flexor carpi ulnaris; the course of the artery having been obliquely under these muscles to the extent of two inches. To tie it in any part of this course, they must be more or less divided, and the only difficulty or danger arises from the median nerve, which lies deeper under the radial origin of the pronator teres. Bat the whole of the muscular fibres may be divided without in- juring the nerve, by successive and careful incisions through them until the artery and nerve are exposed, and a ligature may then be applied above and below the wound in the vessel. It may be supposed by way of elucidation, that a man has re- ceived a wound from a sword through the flexor muscles, which injures also the ulnar artery, as may be presumed from its situation, and the continued and impetuous flow of blood. It may be further supposed, that this wound is in a slanting direction from the ulna towards the radius. The surgeon, if he thinks he can calculate the point at which the artery is injured, should cut down upon it in the direction of the fibres of the intervening muscles, and even through them until he reaches the artery; but if he has erred in his calculation he should introduce a probe into the wound, and after having ascer- tained the line it has taken, he should cut if necessary across the muscular fibres in that direction until he exposes the