137 Protrusion of the Bone. the edges of the wound having a piece of lint between them. This precaution should be particularly atttended to after a great battle, when it is perceived that from the air, the crowded state of the hospital, or the season of the year, the stumps, although they may appear to unite in the first instance externally, do not in reality do so internally. 139. It has been proposed to use ligatures made of catgut or other animal substances, which may be cut short, and left in the wound to be absorbed. This has taken place in some instances, whilst in others little abscesses have followed, allowing their discharge, and not expediting the cure, so that the practice has not prevailed; although it is said that greater success has attended in America, ligatures used in this way made of very fine shreds of the strong tendons of the large deer of that country. Ligatures should not be applied on large veins when they continue to bleed, if it can be avoided, although it has frequently been done without subse- quent inconvenience. A little delay and moderate pressure will generally suffice to arrest the bleeding. 140. If the surgeon find, after completing the operation, that the bone cannot be sufficiently covered to make a good stump, a piece should be sawn off at once, and the error remedied,with little comparative inconvenience to what would occur afterwards, if the bone be too long. No false shame should prevent its being done. If, however, the error have occurred, and the end of bone should become uncovered during the process of healing, it may be allowed to separate of itself, as it cannot be sawn off, at this period, without diffi- culty and much suffering; for an exposed surface will then remain, from which an exfoliation will take place before the stump can heal. In cases of great protrusion, an incision should be made down on to the bone, which should be firmly held by strong pincers, or by a tube in which it will fit, when it is to be sawn off by the chain-saw at a sound part, above that which has been exposed. The wound, in all cases, should be well supported by compress and bandage, to secure a good stump; whence the necessity for the bone being shorter than in those secondary amputations which are done at the period of election, and which will, on the contrary, often unite n 2