215 Illustrative Cases. angles, for want of a proper splint to keep them straight, is praying for amputation or for death. The miserable being on the other side has lost his thigh; it has been amputated. The stump is shaking with spasms; it has shifted off the wisp of straw which supported it. He is holding it with both hands in an agony of despair. These Commentaries are written to prevent as far as possible such horrors; and they may be pre- vented by efficient and well-appointed medical officers; but there must also be greater attention to these points than has hitherto been given by the Government of the country. Don Bernardino Garcia Alvarez, captain of the regiment of Laredo, thirty years of age, was wounded at the battle of Toulouse by a musket-ball, which passed through the thigh, a little above its middle. The wound was not considered a dan- gerous one until the 30th, twenty days after the injury, when a considerable bleeding took place; and as the vessel from which it came seemed to be very deeply seated, the Spanish surgeon in charge tied the common femoral artery. I saw the gentleman in consequence of this having been done. The haemorrhage was suppressed by the operation, and the limb soon recovered its natural temperature, but gangrene made its appearance on the great toe on the third day afterwards. It did not seem to increase, but the limb swelled as if nature was endeavouring to set up sufficient action to maintain its life; and this con- tinued until the tenth day after the operation, when he died completely exhausted. On the dissection of the limb, the femoral artery was found to be perfectly sound in every part below where the ligature had been applied. The vessel which bled could not be discovered; but it was certainly a branch from the profunda, and not the femoral itself. In this case the ligature of the femoral artery destroyed the patient, and the practice pursued must be condemned. The gunshot wound should have been largely dilated, at both orifices if necessary, until the wounded vessel was discovered, which was in all probability not completely divided by the ulcerative or sloughing process which had taken place, and its division would in all probability have suppressed the bleeding. A young gentleman, aged twelve, accompanying his brothers shooting, in December, 1844, was struck in the upper part of