296 Symptoms of Concussion. perhaps full or hard, varying from 84 to 90, and even to 100. In such cases, an augmented pulsation of the carotids may often be observed, and is considered by some to be confirmative of the fact of concussion, although it is by no means a sign to be entirely depended upon. Such a person will not be coma- tose, but -watchful, sleeps little or none, talks incoherently, or is often really delirious, refuses food if offered, drinks with avidity, has a hot skin, and a white tongue. If other symp- toms occur, such as spasms or convulsions, the absolute loss of any sense, or paralysis of any or the whole of a part, the case is complicated by laceration of the brain, compression, or other cause of mischief, from the effects of which, if he cannot be relieved by bloodletting, he gradually sinks into a state of coma, and dies. The deviations which take place from the usual and or- dinary modes of breathing, are supposed to offer distinctive signs of the nature of the injury which has taken place, but they are uncertain; they mark the degree of injury, and perhaps the part injured, rather than anything else. Stertorous breathing has always been considered a sign of ex- travasation causing compression of the brain. Many cases how- ever have occurred of slight extravasation with partial loss of power of one half the body, accompanied by great numbness, without any stertor in breathing; but a well-marked case of large extravasation has rarely or never been observed with- out it, or another peculiarity of breathing which is less thought of, although an equally characteristic and dangerous sign of such mischief having taken place when it is permanent; this is a peculiar whiff or puff from the corner of the mouth, as if the patient were smoking. This, when observed among other urgent symptoms, is usually followed by death. Ster- torous breathing and the whiff or puff at the corner of the mouth are presumed to indicate an injury to the cerebro-spinal axis as well as to the cerebrum; but whether the injury be direct or indirect is uncertain, although it is frequently accompanied by extravasation or laceration. When the breathing is only oppressed or laboured or heavy, neither extravasation nor lesion to any extent can in general be dis- covered after death. The surgeon will then practically be