Conclusions. 168 the acids or cautery may be defended by cloths or other material, wetted with hot or cold water according to the feel- ings of the sufferers, and poultices of various kinds may be had recourse to, if unavoidable. Eleventh.—After the diseased parts have been destroyed by the actual or potential cautery, they cease in a great measure to be contagious, and there is less chance of the disease being propagated to persons having open wounds or ulcerated surfaces. A number of wounded thus treated are less likely to disseminate the disease, than one person on whom consti- tutional treatment alone has been tried. Twelfth.—The pain and constitutional symptoms occasioned by the disease, considered as distinct from the symptoms which may be dependent on disease endemic in the country, are all relieved, and sometimes entirely removed, by the destruction of the diseased surface; which must, however, be carefully and accurately followed to whatever distance, and into whatever parts it may extend, if the salutary effect of the remedies is to be obtained. Thirteenth.—On the separation of the sloughs, the ulcerated surfaces are to be treated according to the ordinary principles of surgery. They cease to eliminate the contagious principle, and do not require a specific treatment. Fourteenth.—The constitutional or febrile symptoms, whenever, or at whatever time they occur, are to be treated according to the nature of the fever they are supposed to re- present, and especially by emetics, purgatives, and the early abstraction of blood if the fever be purely inflammatory, and by less vigorous means if the fever prevailing in the country be of a different character. Pain should be alleviated by opium, which should be freely administered. Fifteenth.—The essential preventive measures are separa- tion, cleanliness, and exposure to the open air,—the first steps towards that cure which cauterization will afterwards in general accomplish. Sixteenth. -If the sufferer be very young, or of a weakly habit, his strength will frequently require to be supported in the most efficient manner by a due administration of the cinchona bark, wine, and a generous diet; means often found