127 Amputation at the Elbow-joint. together with the great sigmoid cavity and the coronoid pro- cess of the ulna, the insertion of the brachialis internus having been previously separated from the coronoid process. Before this is done, the ulnar nerve should be separated with its attach- ments from the inner condyle, and turned aside to avoid injury. The joint being now fully exposed, the head of the radius may be sawn off or cut through with the strong spring scissors if possible, above the tubercle into which the biceps tendon is inserted. The extremity of the humerus should next be pushed through the wound, and the broken end sawn off, a spatula or other thin solid substance being placed underneath it, to prevent the brachial artery or median nerve being in- jured. Any haemorrhage which there may be having ceased, the fore-arm is to be bent, the bones are to be placed in appo- sition, and the incisions approximated by sutures and sticking- plaster, duly supported by compress and bandage, so that union may take place if possible, particularly of the transverse wound first made. The arm should be supported by a sling, and dressed early, as the shot hole or holes must remain open and discharging. Some motion of the new joint to be formed may be expected under gentle passive movements; but as a stiff joint cannot always be avoided, the arm should be kept bent. 123. Amputation at the elbow-joint has been recommended, but not frequently performed. It may be done in any way by which good covering can be obtained, and it has been supposed that the long stump thus made is more useful if the olecranon process be sawn across, and left with the triceps attached to it, rather than if it be removed. When the parts are sound, a flap may be made in front by introducing a straight double- edged knife over the outer condyle, and carrying it across and through the soft parts over the opposite or inner condyle, when by cutting downwards and outwards a flap is to be formed of from three to four fingers' breadth in length. A shorter flap is to be made behind, when both are to be raised, and the bleed- ing vessels previously secured, the external lateral ligament being divided. The radius is to be separated from the humerus, when the olecranon may be sawn across, or, if the arm be bent,