Illustrative Cases. 543 abdomen having subsided; threw up his tea and a quantity of clotted blood this morning. 26th.—Had a bad night; pulse 125, and full. Complains of great pain in the hepatic region, and backwards towards the spine. Bleeding to sixteen ounces; chloride of mercury, four grains; conserve of roses, nine grains: to be made into two pills, one to be taken twice a day. 30th.—Vomited in the night, mixed with blood; tea &c. remain on the stomach this morning; pulse 108. July 5th.—The adnatae have a yellow tinge; in other re- spects is doing well. R Chlorid. hydrarg. gr. x.; extr. colocynth comp. 3j.: to be made into ten pills, one to be taken three times a day. 20th.—The wound perfectly healed; is cleaning his accoutre- ments, boots, &c. Was discharged on the 28th July, perfectly recovered. Owen M'Caffrey, aged thirty-three, 1st battalion 95th regi- ment, was wounded on the 18 th of June at the battle of Waterloo by a musket-ball, which penetrated the cavity of the abdomen on the right side, about midway between the superior anterior spinous process of the ilium and the linea alba. When admitted into the Minimes General Hospital three days after, he was in the most deplorable state; the whole abdomen was tense and exquisitely tender; the pulse small and wiry; vomiting incessant, with hiccough and ghastly visage. From this period to the 24th he was thrice largely blooded, and the strictest antiphlogistic plan was laid down, and rigidly adhered to. Laxative injections were adminis- tered, the whole of the abdomen was frequently fomented, and opiates were administered to allay the irritability of tha stomach, and to procure ease and rest. On the 25th the wounded intestine sloughed, and the feces escaped by the external orifice, the adherence of the two surfaces of the perito- neum preventing any, even the smallest portion, getting into the cavity of the abdomen. 26th.—The high inflammatory action having been reduced, milk, rice, and sugar, and the farinaceous part of the potato were allowed. July 1st.—No very alarming symptom remains. Haifa fowl