Illustrative Cases. 542 which however was of no moment; though I was compelled to return to England on sick leave, in October, 1812, as the spasms increased with greater severity, incapacitating me from doing my duty, and at times renderiug me totally helpless. " I now gradually recovered my health, and in the spring of 1815 accompanied the 10th Hussars to Belgium, and served at Waterloo. " My health gave way again in 1821, and I certainly was in a precarious state for three or four years; but I gradually recovered, and by dint of great care and attention to diet I am now (1853) in robust health, and can take the strongest exercise with impunity." John Richardson, of the 1st Royal Dragoons, was wounded at the battle of Waterloo by a musket-ball, which entered two and a half inches above the nmbilicus, and passed out on the left side, close to the lumbar vertebrae. He threw up a considerable quantity of blood, and the stomach was so irritable that nothing would remain on it. He complained of pain (which cut him right across, as he termed it); his eyes were suffused, and face flushed; had headache; pulse 130. Thirty ounces of blood were taken from the arm, emollient injections thrown up the rectum, and poultices applied to the wounds. June 20th.—Some blood came away with the injections during the night; great pain in the right side and shoulder; saline draughts are returned, tinged -with bile and blood; pulse 130. Bled to sixteen ounces; injections and poultices continued. 21st.—A draught was thrown up mixed with blood, and a quantity of biliousfluid; diarrhoea during the night; the fasces were mixed with blood; pulse 120; skin hot. Bleeding to twelve ounces; blood sizy. 22nd.—Slept a little during the night; had several alvine evacuations of a bilious fluid mixed with blood. The tension of the belly is not so great. He still complains of pain. Tea remains on his stomach. Bleeding to twelve ounces; fomen- tations and poultices to the belly; chicken and beef broths; injections frequently. 24th.—Feels considerable relief from the tension of the