290 Concussion of the Brain. is most seriously injured, more particularly with respect to the prognosis than to the treatment. Great severity and persistence of the symptoms lead to the belief that the part of the brain or spinal marrow on which they depend, is directly injured rather than, indirectly affected, and that the result is more likely to be fatal. Permanent insensibility and loss of motion may depend on cerebral mischief only. The loss of the mobility of the iris implies an affection of the tubercula quadrigemina. Convulsions, vomiting, a drawing up of the limb not affected by paralysis, stertor, a difficulty in swallow- n strabismus and relaxed sphincters, show derangement of he spinal functions; which is well marked when tickling the eyelashes does not cause closing of the lid, of the verge of the anus no contraction of the sphincter, of the sole of the foot no motion of the toes. 245. In order to simplify the investigation of Injuries of the Head, they have been divided into two great classes, one de- nominated Injuries from Concussion, the other Injuries from Compression or Irritation, of the Brain. By the term Con- cussion of the Brain, a certain indefinable something, or cause of evil which cannot be demonstrated, is understood to have taken place; the effect of which is often clearly proved by the almost instantaneous death of the individual, or by the suc- cession of symptoms which quickly lead to his destruction. The term concussion is very aptly and forcibly illustrated by the homely but striking expression in use in our sister coun- try, when a man has been suddenly killed by a fall on the head, "that the life has been shook out of him." On a dis- section of the brain in a pure case of this kind, no trace of injury or even of derangement of any part of it can be per- ceived. Life is extinct, but the brain is intact. The imma- terial has been separated from the material part by an injury apparently inflicted on the very seat of life, with as little apparent derangement of its structure, as if death had occurred in a secondary manner from the abstraction of blood by a rupture of the heart. Modern surgery has in fact added nothing to our infor- mation on the subject, perhaps from the peculiar difficulties of the case, which may not admit of removal in the present