Ligature of the Femoral and Profunda A rteries. 263 the artery, when the vessel will be exposed. In dividing tliis fascia and sheath, the point of the knife is always to be directed to the centre of the artery, so that if it be cut by accident it may be seen, when the only result will be the necessity for the application of a ligature above, and one below it. The artery being fully exposed, as ascertained by the pul- sation being felt by the finger, it is to be separated from its cellular attachment to the sheath on each side by a blunt or silver knife; and the aneurismal needle or probe, armed with a strong single thread of dentists' silk, is to be passed under it from' the inner or pubic side outwards, by which all injury to the vein from the round point of the needle or probe will be avoided. Two common knots are to be made in the usual manner, when one thread may be cut off, or the two twisted together and brought carefully out of the wound; the edges of which are then to be duly approximated and retained in that situation by sticking plaster and a moderate compress, secured in a similar manner. The knee is to be bent forwards to relax the parts, and laid on the outside with a pillow beneath it. The needle will pass more easily under the artery if the thigh be bent on the trunk; before the knots are tied, the surgeon should ascertain that pressure on the part or artery which he has nearly surrounded by the ligature, suppresses the pulsation in the tumour below. 224. The point of a sword entering the anterior part of the thigh two inches below Poupart's ligament, and wounding the superficial femoral artery, will necessitate the application of two ligatures, one above, and the other below the wound in the vessel; but as the profunda under ordinary circumstances is given off posteriorly at this spot, it is possible the upper liga- ture may be placed on the main artery a little above the bifurcation. The result might, and would probably be on some sudden movement of the patient, a recurrence of the haemorrhage, by regurgitation from the profunda into the main trunk below the ligature, and thus through the wound in the artery, the lower ligature assisting by the obstacle it offers. In such a case, the wound should be re-opened, and the profunda sought for and tied. It has been argued that the ligatures, being applied close to the origin of collateral