310 Symptoms of Compression. should not be made to its vascular structures only, in explana- tion of the cause of its derangements. 255. "When compression of the brain is caused by an extrava- sation of blood, the patient is insensible, breathes slowly, loudly, and in a heavy laboured manner, or with stertor, and cannot be awakened, although the noisy breathing may be for a time suspended. The breath is sometimes emitted from the corner of the mouth, like a whiff or puff of smoke, and with some- thing of a similar noise: this, when permanent, is a more dangerous symptom than the common snoring or stertorous breathing. He sometimes froths at the mouth, and occasionally appears convulsed, but neither hears nor sees, nor takes the least notice of those about him. The countenance is generally flushed if the shock or blow has been slight, pale or livid if it should have been great. The pulse is usually slower than natural, sometimes irregular or intermitting, occasionally quick, even from the receipt of the injury. The pupils of the eyes may be contracted or dilated, being dependent for their condition more perhaps on the part of the brain affected than on the degree of injury. They are generally more contracted in the first instance than dilated; they may afterwards pass into a medium or doubtful state; one may be even dilated, and the other not. In general, as the mischief is continued and augmented, they become dilated and immovable. The eyes may be turned upwards, or may be fixed in the centre, or be drawn irregularly outwards or inwards, causing strabismus, which is, however, a more rare occurrence. If the eyelids should be partially open, tickling the cilia or the conjunctiva of the ball with a straw or a feather, will cause them to close if the spinal cord be sound. The mouth and lips are more or less compressed, and fluids run out at the corners, unless placed on the very back of the tongue by a long narrow spoon, when they are swallowed with difficulty. Paralysis of one side of the face and hemiplegia are common; paraplegia is more rare. In both kinds of palsy, one part in one limb may be more com- pletely affected than another, in which convulsive twitchings are sometimes present, as well as a frequent drawing up of the limb of the unaffected side. Tickling the soles of the feet or the palms of the hands will sometimes cause retraction of the