299 Treatment of Concussion. The bladder, which had been a little distended, acted volun- tarily. The next day he was perfectly collected, and com- plained only of a little pain in the head. Pulse 84; was quiet and slept during a part of the night. The bowels acted under the influence of the calomel and colocynth given the evening before, and of a senna draught in the morning. He quickly re- covered, without any further bad symptoms. The effects of a large abstraction of blood at too early a period are well shown in this case, especially by the convul- sions and by the peculiar kind of breathing. 249. When the period of excitement or of inflammation has begun, and the patient, although disposed to coma, is still irrational and impatient when roused, he is not to be left to await the effects of a blistering plaster or of a dose of physic, as has been recommended in such cases/but ought to be bled sitting up in bed to whatever extent may be necessary to relieve the symptoms, or at least to cause a near approach to fainting, for nothing less can relieve such a person effectually, and give him a fair chance for life. The bleeding must be steadily repeated as the symptoms recur until relief has been obtained, or until it becomes evident that the powers of the patient cannot resist the inroads of the disease and of the efforts made for its cure. The quantity of blood that may be lost in two or three days by powerful healthy men, is some- times enormous, amounting to 100, 150, and even 200 ounces with the happiest effect. The following case, which was one' of inflammation tending to effusion, will show the extent to which it ought to be carried in an elderly person of a diffe- rent habit of body. A gentleman, sixty-seven years of age, had suffered for three weeks from occasional attacks of gout in his right foot, which he had himself treated by simple means, taking the pulvis ipecacuanhas compositus at night to relieve pain. Once or twice his family had observed that his head was for a short time not so clear as usual; but no suspicion of further evil was entertained until he awoke one morning, evidently talking incoherently. As the gout had nearly disappeared from his feet, sinapisms were applied to both; purgatives and diapho- retics were freely administered, and he appeared to be re-