209 Transverse Wounds of A rteries. carotid if the aneurism should increase in size. He was un- fortunately killed in action the year afterwards by a shot through the head. 191. When a large artery, such as the brachial, in man is cut transversely to a fourth of its circumference, it forms a circular opening as in animals; and if the artery be large the bleeding usually continues until the person faints, or it is arrested by pressure. In dogs the bleeding commonly ceases without any assistance from art, and without the animal being exhausted; in horses and sheep the bleeding usually continues till the animals die; whilst in man, even with the best aid from compression, haemorrhage will in all probability recur, unless the circulation be altogether arrested. If the external opening only should be closed, a spurious, circum- scribed aneurism will be the consequence in so small an artery as the temporal, and a ligature will sometimes be required above and below a little aneurism of this description. In a larger artery the spurious aneurism may or may not be diffused. When an artery of this size is completely divided, it is less likely to continue to bleed than if it had been only wounded. When it is merely cut or torn half through, but not completely divided in the first instance, it is in the same state with regard to haamorrhage, as if it had partially given way by ulceration. It can neither retract nor contract, and will con- tinue to bleed until it destroys the patient, unless pressure be accurately applied, and maintained until further assistance can be procured. The practice to be pursued is to divide the vessel if it be a small one, such as the temporal artery, when it will be enabled to retract and contract; and the bleeding will in general permanently cease under pressure, especially when it can be applied against the bone. If the artery is of a larger class, and continues to bleed, it should be sufficiently exposed by enlarging the wound; a ligature should be applied above and below the opening in the vessel, which may or may not be divided between them at the pleasure of the surgeon. In June, 1829, 1 happened to be at Windsor, on a visit to my old friend the late Dr. Ferguson, and was called to a young gentleman, the upper part of whose right femoral artery had t 2