408 Admission of Air into the Cavity of the CJiest to at an earlier period, or about the end of the third week. . After wouuds penetrating the chest, and which do not admit the effused fluid to flow out, it should be done much earlier. It is possible that both sides of the chest may be affected; but both sides may not be punctured in succession, for an error in puncturing both, or even the sonorous or sound side, instead of the dull or affected side, has been almost immediately destructive of life. 318. The admission of atmospheric air into the cavity of the chest during this operation has been much deprecated, and many inventions have been recommended for its prevention; but it is scarcely possible to prevent some air getting in. It is often seen to do so; it has been proved by auscultation to have done so, and is usually absorbed in a few hours. In one case which I saw, it gave rise to distressing symptoms, from pressure on the lung, but was removed by a common syringe, to the great relief of the patient. In all these cases two things must be considered. Can the compressed lung expand so as to fill the chest when the fluid is withdrawn? The answer must be, that in many cases it is so bound down by adhesions that it can dilate but slowly, if at all. If it be asked, whether a vacuum is formed in the chest, the answer will be, no; and it will then be admitted, on consideration, that air always finds its way into the chest, and never does harm in persons in health. When mischief ensues after an operation or an injury, it occurs from the irritation caused in a particular state of constitution, and not from the admission of air. If the wound into a cavity can be closed and healed, the air will remain with impunity until absorbed. If the wound cannot be healed, unhealthy inflammation may be pro- pagated from it to the whole cavity with which it communi- cates. Dr. H. M. Hughes has published several cases of pneumo- thorax, in the first part of the eighth volume of the Guy's Hospital Beports for 1852. In the sixth case, which he calls a genuine example of pneumo-thorax from rupture of one or more of the vesicles of an emphysematous lung, the patient died speedily; and, on examination, he says—" It is also an interesting fact that no evidence of inflammatory action