280 Ligature of (lie Axillary Artery. nerve of the axillary plexus lies over the artery, and may be mistaken for it. When the veins coming from the neck are large and numerous,great care should be taken toavoid injuring them, as they frequently cause not only much basmorrhage, but great delay. Great care must also be taken in all these operations to prevent the ingress of air into any of the veins •which may by accident be opened, as its admission in quantity has occasioned sudden death, although the entrance of a few bubbles may not be so dangerous as has been supposed. 236. When the axillary artery is to be tied for a wound, the patient is to be firmly supported or placed in the hori- zontal position, the arm to be slightly separated from the body, and an incision made in the course of the axillary artery, through the integuments, superficial fascia, and the great pectoral muscle—in fact, through the anterior fold of the armpit. The length of the incision will depend on the part at which the artery is to be secured. The parts divided being separated, the pectoralis minor will be seen crossing to the coracoid process at the upper part of the wound, and the artery may be felt below it, enclosed in its cellular sheath, ■with the nerves of the arm and its venae comites. At the lower edge of the pectoralis minor, the artery is crossed by the outer of the venae comites, which passes be- tween the external cutaneous and the external origin of the median nerve, at the spot where they separate from the plexus. The artery may be tied below this separation, or the nerves and vein may be drawn to the outside, and the artery tied above the union of the external with the internal root of the median nerve as high as the origin of the arteria thoracica acromialis, the pectoralis minor being either raised and pushed upwards, or divided if necessary. The internal root of the median nerve is in connexion with the internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves; the larger of the vense comites is to the inside and behind, but as it ascends it receives its fellow, and with the cephalic vein forms in front of the artery the subclavian vein. 237. The brachial artery can be traced by its pulsation from the lower edge of the teres major muscle to below the bend of the arm, where it is covered by the pronator radii teres muscle. At first it is to the ulnar side of the humerus, rest-