524 Omentum may be cut off. a musket-ball, which passed in on one side, and came out at the other, carrying with it a portion of omentum, which gradually became as large as an orange, in which state I saw it four days after the accident. Little had been done; he had not suffered much pain, although the abdomen was tender; he had vomited; passed blood with his motions; was feverish and ill. I visited this man every three or four days; he suffered from privations of every kind, yet each time I found him better. The protruded omentum gradually diminished in size, and was at last drawn into the wound in the abdomen, and covered by granulations. He left Toulouse before me, nearly well. If the omentum be greatly bruised or injured, it may be cut off, and the vessels tied if bleeding; but it should not be returned further than the edges of the peritoneum, over which the external wound is to be closed. Ravaton wrote a hundred years ago —" The views of a surgeon must be very confined who advises the application of a ligature to the omentum, when protruding from the cavity of the belly in a healthy state. It is a cruel and deadly manoeuvre, contrary to reason and experience. To restore it to its place is so simple, just, and reasonable, that I am sur- prised it does not occur to every one. The reduction is easily effected. It is sometimes difficult to retain the reduced part, except by sutures. I admit that when the omentum is stran- gulated, gorged with blood, black, and about to become gangrenous, the result of its restoration to the cavity may be doubted; yet experience has demonstrated that it is the safest mode of proceeding, taking care not to close the wound entirely, but to leave an opening at the lower part to give vent to any effusion or suppuration that may take place." 387. When a portion of intestine is protruded without being wounded it is to be returned, whatever may be its state, unless it be soft and unresisting between the fingers, of a dull blue or black colour, and to every surgical eye deprived of life or mortified. At any state previous to this (to English- men) almost certainly fatal condition, it should be restored into the cavity of the abdomen. When a portion of intestine is thus returned tbree directions are given by most modern surgeons, and especially by Chelius, section 517, on which his