165 Successful Use of Acids in India. " Hospital gangrene appeared amongst the wounded of the 29th Regiment a little later than in the hospitals of other corps. The disease declared itself on the 18th of January, in a stump case; and between that date and the 26th of the same month, fifteen cases had come under treatment. At first I could tell, by the peculiar dark, florid countenance of the patient, that his wound had taken on the gangrenous affection; yet I cannot say that there was, in these cases, any marked inflammatory fever. Subsequently, in the prevalence of the disease, this dark red colour of the face was neither well marked, nor by any means so constant. In many cases the disease seemed purely local; but in the great majority there was certainly much feverish, constitutional disturbance accompanying the local affection, and often preceding it. My experience of the disease, as it occurred amongst the wounded at Ferozepore, does not enable me to determine, satisfactorily to myself, whether it is essentially a local or a constitutional affection. I am inclined to place it in the former category; and there is no doubt whatever, in my mind, that the essential means of treatment are local. " In the treatment of this disease I proceeded regularly on one plan, and found that so efficacious that I was not inclined to try any other. The plan adopted was, the application of the strong nitric acid, so as completely to cut off the diseased from the sound part, or part so far sound as only to be affected with inflammation. The acid, however, required to be rubbed in with the blunt end of the probe, so that it not only de- stroyed the cuticle, but killed the cutis vera, and probably the cellular membrane underneath. The narrow yellow ring of dead skin thus formed, separated like a piece of leather, generally carrying with it the whole slough, and leaving a clean, healthy surface, as well as edges to the wound. I never attempted to apply the acid to the surface underneath the slough, neither is such an application necessary; the vital seat of the disease is in its circumference, however large the area. I must admit, that the disease sometimes crossed the acid boundary, and a second, and even a third application of the remedy was required; but this was rare. Neither was consti- tutional treatment neglected, but this varied according to the