530 Treatment cfa Divided Intestine. its way from without inwards, obviates the evils which might arise from the occlusion of the passage. In an experiment, in which the dog was killed upon the eleventh day after the application of the ligature, the canal of the bowel was com- pletely restored, and the bond of connexion between the divided parts was firm and organised. Similar effects are produced when a small ligature is applied around the edges of a wound, from two to three lines in diameter, provided it be drawn with sufficient firmness not to slip off. The process of reparation is not, however, so speedily completed, owing to the breach being much wider than when a ligature is simply placed around the tube. The mucous membrane requires a longer period for its reproduction, and the quantity of lymph deposited around and enclosing the ligature is proportionally greater. 390. The idea of sewing together, and thereby restoring the continuity of a wounded bowel, is attributed to four surgeons of Paris, in the thirteenth centnry, who, having united their efforts for the relief of the sick poor in that city, procured, it is said, a portion of the trachea of an animal, one end of which they introduced into the upper part of the divided bowel, and the remaining piece into the lower, and then brought the divided ends into contact, and retained them by as many sutures as appeared to be necessary. Their writings, in which this operation is described, are lost. Peter De Argelata, who lived about the middle of the fifteenth century, says that Jemerius, Roger, and Theodoric supported the intestine by a canula of elder wood, whilst Gilbert de Salicetti condemns both the use of the trachea and the elder-wood tube, and recommends, if anything be used, that it should be the dry and hardened bowel of some animal. These ancient surgeons believed that a transverse division of the intestine was neces- sarily a fatal injury, and only resorted to the methods they recommended when the division was less complete. Duverger de Maubeuge, in the beginning of the eighteenth century, apparently unaware of what had been done before h.s time, brought forward this method of the four masters as an in- vention of his own. He cut off a portion of mortified intes- tine in a case of strangulated hernia, introduced a piece ot the