432 Relief of Oppression of Breathing- column, which had hcen repulsed, could rally and recover its ground. He was an object of particular attention to me, for the few minutes he lived after I saw him; he had coughed up a little blood, and died gasping, as if suffocated, the chest labouring on each side to do its work in vain. His command- ing officer, Colonel the Hon. George Lake, lay dead by his side, killed instantaneously by a musket-ball, which passed from the upper part of the left through the right side of the chest. A French gentleman, fencing with his pupil in July, 1834, received a blow under the right axilla in a very violent lunge, whereby the button of the foil was broken off, and the foil itself passed into and through the back part of the thorax, the point coming out between the sixth and seventh ribs on the left side, near the angles. There was hut little bleeding. The chief symptoms were those of great inflammation of the contents of the cavity, which gave way to full and repeated bleeding from the arm, with perfect rest and almost starvation. He recovered very favourably, and was quite well in about eight weeks. He remains well, and is following his profession as a teacher of fencing. 330. When an incised wound into the chest is large and direct, injuring the lung, two very important points usually demand immediate attention. The first is, to relieve the oppressed state of the breathing; the second, to suppress the bleeding. In large penetrating wounds of the chest, with injury of the lung, it has been observed that the patient has breathed most easily when the external wound has been covered; and has been hardly able to hreathe when it was opened, which is attributed to the air getting into that side of the thorax in inspiration, instead of entering the lung by the trachea. If the wound admit of being well closed, the difficulty of breathing diminishes; adhesion may take place, and the inflammatory action within the chest may terminate; but if the inflamma- tory symptoms continue, adhesion does not take place, and the secretion and effusion of a quantity of serous fluid are the consequence. This secretion of fluid is the natural conse- quence of inflammation which has passed the stage of adhe-