Ligature of the Posterior Tibial Artery. 267 the calf of the leg, the peroneal artery will be exposed by it; but if it be certain that the peroneal artery is the vessel in- jured, the incision should be made towards the fibular side of the leg. When the surgeon has divided the fascia he will find this artery covered by the fleshy fibres of the flexor longus pollicis muscle, at any distance below three inches and a half from the head of the fibula; these fibres being divided, the artery will be found close to the inside of the bone. Above that part the artery is under the fascia, and upon the tibialis posticus muscle. It has not an accompanying nerve. Both arteries will be readily found, by either of the incisions, if the surgeon be acquainted with their situation. The posterior tibial artery may require to be tied between the ankle and the heel. In this situation its pulsation may be felt, and that will be the best guide to the artery. It has the tendons of the tibialis anticus, and of the flexor digi- torum communis, nearer to the malleolus than itself, and distant about a quarter of an inch; there is a vein on each side of the artery. Posterior to this is the posterior tibial nerve, and nearer the heel the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. To tie the artery near the heel, its pulsation should be felt, and an incision more than two inches long made upon it, through the common integuments and superficial fascia; a strong aponeurosis will be found beneath, covering the sheath of the vessels and adhering to the tendons. This apo- neurosis must be carefully opened on a director passed be- neath it, and then the sheath of the vessels: the artery should be tied with a single ligature, unless wounded. The nerve is nearer the heel. The posterior tibial artery may be tied a couple of inches higher up in the small part of the leg, by making the incision on the tibial edge of the soleus muscle, under which it lies. 228. The posterior tibial artery, an inch and a quarter, or from that to an inch and a half, below the inner ankle, gives off the internal plantar artery, and assumes the name of external plantar. The internal and smaller artery passes forward on the inside of the foot, under the origin of the abductor pollicis, to the outer or metatarsal side of the great toe, and need give no trouble.