Wounds of the Knee-joint. 92 I hope yet to see a man walking with ease and comfort on whom it has heen performed. The recommendation thus given is the result of the experience of former times, of the whole of the war in the Peninsula and at Waterloo, matured by that of the last seven-and-thirty years in London Hospitals, and by a due consideration of the state of surgery throughout all civilized Europe and America. Surgery is never stationary, and surgeons of the present day must con- tinue to show that it is as much a science as an art. 87. Wounds of the knee-joint from musket-balls, with frac- ture of the bones composing it, require immediate amputa- tion; for although a limb may be sometimes saved, it cannot be called a recovery, or a successful result, where the limb is useless; and is a constant source of irritation and distress after several months of acute suffering have been endured, to obtain even this partial relief from impending death. For one limb thus saved, ten lives will be lost; and the sufferer is often glad, after months and years, to lose the limb thus saved, more particularly when the ball has lodged in the arti- culating surface of either of the bones. Amputation at a secondary period, in these cases, does not afford half the chance of success, for many will not survive the inflammation and the fever which will ensue. The amputation should there- fore be immediate, unless excision can be substituted for it. 88. Compound fractures of the patella, without injury of the other bones, admit of delay, provided the bone be not much splintered. If the ball should have pierced the centre of the patella, and passed out nearly in an opposite direction behind, the limb will not be saved. If the ball have struck the patella on its edge, and gone through it transversely, opening into the joint, it will very rarely be saved; but if it be merely fractured, there is hope under the most rigorous antiphlogistic treatment, and delay is proper. A ball will occasionally penetrate the capsular ligament, and lodge in the knee-joint, without fracturing the bone; if it cannot be ex- tracted without opening extensively into the cavity of the joint, and the extraction of the ball is absolutely necessary, amputation had better be performed at first, for it will be ultimately necessary. The condyles of the femur and the lower part of the bone being spongy, a ball may pass through