136 Hcemorrhage in Secondary Amputations. ones bleed. "When a nerve is known to accompany an artery, it should be carefully separated from it. 136. If the bleeding should continue from above the ligature on the extremity of an artery, it is generally caused by some small branch given off from it, which has been cut so close to the trunk of the vessel as not to have been observed. In that case the artery itself is to be drawn out by the tenaculum or spring-forceps until the bleeding point can be seen, and a ligature placed above it, when the piece below should be cut off with the first ligature applied. This inconvenience will be in general avoided by taking care to divide the principal artery at one stroke of the knife, and with it half an inch at least of the surrounding substances, if the operation be done by the circular incision; if by flaps, the extent of the exposed arteries should be carefully examined, and the ligatures applied at the highest point of exposure, when all below should be removed. 137. When a tourniquet is used, and applied too close to the incised parts, it often prevents, even when loosened, the principal vessel from being found, from its having pressed on the ends of the muscles. If one be used, it should be removed as soon as possible after the principal artery has been secured. The repeated tightening and loosening of the tourniquet will cause more vessels to bleed in the end, and more blood to be lost, than if it had not been used; it ought not to be resorted to when good assistance is procurable. In cases of this kind, in which the stump may not cease to ooze, the cir- culation being good, and sponging with cold water not effectual, the wound should not be finally closed for two, four, or more hours, until the oozing has ceased, and the parts can be freed from the coagulated blood, and brought together. 138. In cases in which union is not expected to take place, both ends of the ligatures should be cut off; for union is not to be desired of the external parts in many instances of secon- dary amputation, particularly after serious injuries; the in- flammation consequent on which has in some degree impli- cated the structures divided in the operation, rendering them less liable to take on the healthy action of adhesion. The soft parts should be simply approximated by two or more sutures,