Wounds of Arteries of Arm and Fore-arm . 237 be done. If this operation had not succeeded, the ligature of the artery above the clavicle was a further resource; but as the artery was sound below, with the exception of the end engaged in the face of the stump, the operation was success- ful; and no doubt should be entertained in such cases, of the propriety of an operation which is attended with little risk, compared with that which destroys one man for every one it saves. 203. Punctured wounds of the arteries of the arm and fore- arm ought to be treated by pressure applied especially to the part injured, and to the limb generally; but when the bleeding cannot be restrained in this manner, in consequence of the extent of the external wound, the bleeding artery is to be ex- posed, and a ligature applied above, and another below the part injured, whether the arteries are radial, ulnar, or interosseal. 204. When the external wound closes under pressure, and blood is extravasated in such quantity under the fascia and between the muscular structures, as is not likely to be re- moved by absorption under general pressure, the wounded artery should be laid bare by incision and secured in a similar manner, even at the expense of any muscular fibre which may intervene. 205. When an aneurismal tumour forms some time after such an accident, in the upper part of the fore-arm in parti- cular, the application of a ligature on the brachial artery is admissible, on the Hunterian principle. 206. When the ulnar artery is wounded in the hand, and which is comparatively a superficial vessel, two ligatures should be placed upon it in the manner hereafter to be directed. When the opening is small, pressure may be tried. 207. When the radial artery is wounded in the hand, in which situation it is deep-seated, the case requires greater consideration. When there is a large open wound, and the bleeding end or ends of the artery can be seen, a ligature should be placed on each; but this cannot always be done without more extensive incisions than the tendinous and nervous parts will justify. 208. When search has been made by incisions through the