Conclusions. 166 state of the patient; emetics, purgatives, saline medicines, and low diet being sometimes required; whilst in other instances, ether, ammonia, laudanum, and generous diet were admi- nistered. " When speaking of the symptoms of this disease, I should have mentioned that a burning, gnawing sensation was some- times loudly complained of. The application of the acid soon removed that pain, and the acid itself did not often seem to produce much suffering. In one instance, deemed a favourable one, I tried venesection, and I fear did mischief. Calomel and antimonials were useful. I did not try the arsenical solution. The change of air, which the march of the wounded on their return to Kussowlee occasioned, certainly had a very beneficial effect on all the gangrenous and sloughing sores. "At the same time that hospital gangrene was prevalent at Ferozepore, some wounds took on a malignant fungous affec- tion, which spread over the healthy surface like the hospital gangrene. The dirty, fibrous-looking, fungous growth rose con- siderably above the edges of the wound, partially overlapping them; these edges were inflamed, but not livid and vesicated as in the cases of gangrene; but here also the disease took the circular or oval form. The affection here noticed I observed only in wounds of the fore-arm and hand; Colonel Barr's wound, which was of the fore-arm near the wrist, took on this disease. The application of nitric acid in the same way as for hospital gangrene eventually checked its progress. " In no case that came under my observation did the gan- grene directly prove fatal, though in many cases it contributed largely in bringing about an unfavourable termination." 172. Conclusions.—First. Hospital gangrene never occurs in isolated cases of wounds. Second.—It originates only in badly-ventilated hospitals, crowded with wounded men, among and around whom clean- liness has not been too well observed. Third.—It is a morbid poison, remarkably contagious, and is infectious through the medium of the atmosphere applied to the wound or ulcer. Fourth.—It is possibly infectious, acting constitutionally, and producing great derangement of the system at large,