Illustrative Gases. 413 prevent his walking about in the confinement to which he was doomed as a prisoner of war. My attention was drawn to him in consequence of an obvious fulness of the intercostal spaces, of the great difficulty of breathing, and of a puffy in- flammatory swelling which was forming around, and at the seat of the wound in front. Through this I made an incision into the cavity of the chest, the walls of which, on introducing the finger through the opening, appeared to be very much thicker than usual. A large quantity of pus was discharged, and the man was relieved, but this amelioration was not of long continuance, and he gradually sunk and died. On opening the body, the inside of the wall of the chest was found to be half an inch in thickness, in consequence of a firm deposition on the pleura of a yellowish ash colour, honeycombed or ulcerated as it were in plates, particularly where the opening had been made. The lung was shrunk up from the anterior and lower part of the chest, but adhered to the wounded part behind, and was covered by a layer of false membrane of considerable thickuess. The wound through the lung could not be distinctly traced, from its being diseased throughout. At Santander, in October of the same year, 1813,1 received some eight hundred wounded in the affairs of Le Saca, Vera, &c. One of the light division had been shot through the left side of the chest; the posterior wound had closed, but a suffi- ciently large quantity of matter was discharged through a small anterior one to show that there must be some depot from which it proceeded. The wound was laid open into the cavity of the chest, and free vent given to a quantity of matter. Some small pieces of rib were discharged, and a bit of something like the cloth of his coat also came away. He could lie on either side, and hopes were entertained of his re- covery until after I left Santander, in December, to join the army in France, when he suffered a relapse of inflammation and died. A soldier of the German legion was wounded at Waterloo, by a lance, between the sixth and seventh ribs of the left side. He spat up much blood for several days, and was carried to Antwerp, where he remained for several months, n n 2