Nervous Influence. 40 he is peculiarly obliged to guard. The skin shows no sign of discoloration or derangement. Position gives the explana- tion why the ball took such a peculiar course; the symptoms show the nature of the injury. From other effects he has perfectly recovered, but his leg is comparatively as useless to him as an artificial one, whilst it is a constant source of suffering, sometimes aggravated to that of misery. 38. The cases related elsewhere, of mortification taking place in the foot and leg, after the division of the principal artery in the thigh, show that the maintenance of the life of a part depends on the blood. The cases now related show that neither an injury nor the division of the principal nerve, nor, perhaps, of all the nerves going to a part, will destroy that life. The complete failure of the circulation in a part such as the foot, impairs, but does not totally destroy, the sensibility im- parted by the nerves, until some hours—nay, days—after the loss of life has taken place, nor until decomposition is about to occur. An injury then to the nerve causes great pain in the parts supplied by it; some loss of the power of motion; some deprivation of its ordinary sensibility, as shown by a feeling of numbness; and an incapability, to a certain extent, of resist- ing heat or cold. When all the nerves have been divided, the power of moving the limb is lost, as well as its sensibility in u general sense. The temperature remains at a natural standard under ordinary -circumstances, but no extra evolution of heat can take place by which cold is resisted, nor any absorption of it, which perhaps renders the application of a high temperature, particularly when combined with moisture, harmless. The circulation is capable of maintaining the ordinary heat of a part although it is deprived of the in- fluence of the special nerves of sensation and of motion, but a greater evolution of heat appears to depend on some- thing communicated by the nerves in a state of integrity. In the case of Sir P. Broke, this something appeared to be derived from the brain, on which part the wound was inflicted, and the transmission of which was interrupted by the injury. The evolution of animal heat has of late been supposed to be dependent on electricity, from the resemblance which exists between it and the nervous power, although the attempts to F