Operation for Artificial Anus in the Back. 584 should never take place unless in connexion with something within the cavity rendering it necessary. 17. If the epigastric, circumflexa ilii, or other artery in the wall of the abdomen, be injured and bleed, the wound should be enlarged, and the bleeding vessel secured by ligature. If the main trunk or the external iliac artery be sought for and tied, the patient will in all probability die. 18. When balls lodge in the bones of the pelvis, they should be carefully sought for and removed, if it can be done with propriety and safety. 19. In a wound of the bladder, an elastic gum catheter should be kept in it, frequently without a stopper, until the wound is presumed to be healed—unless its presence should prove injurious from excess of irritation, not removed by allowing the urine to pass through it by drops as it is brought into the bladder. 20. In all cases in which a catheter cannot be introduced, in consequence of the back part of the urethra or the neck of the bladder being injured, an opening for the discharge of the urine should be made from the perineum into the bladder. It is essential to life. 21. The treatment of all these injuries must be eminently antiphlogistic, principally depending on general and local blood-letting, absolute rest, abstinence from food, and in some cases almost even from drink, the frequent administration of enemata, the early exhibition of mercury, and especially of opium, in the different ways usually recommended, with refer- ence to the part injured. 422. As the operation for opening into the colon may be necessary, after an injury of that part, as well as from disease below it, the following method, recommended by Mr. Hilton, is briefly transcribed from the Reports of Guy's Hospital. A line drawn parallel to the spinous processes directly down- wards from the angle of the seventh, eighth, or ninth ribs across the costo-iliac space to the crest of the ilium, will cor- respond with the outer edge of the erector spinoe muscle and the apices of the transverse processes. A measured inch out- wardly corresponds with the outer edge of the quadratus