Illustrative Cases. 555 appeared to subside, until the 30th of June, when bleeding took place from the wound during the night to the extent of twenty ounces, and ceased spontaneously. On the 15th July the haemorrhage recurred with so much fever as to warrant twenty ounces of blood being taken from the arm, and this was repeated next day. The bilious discharge ceased in the middle of August, and on the 2nd September he was dis- charged convalescent. Lieut. Edward Hooper, 1st battalion, 38th regiment, was wounded by a musket-ball on the 9th December, 1812. It passed through the anterior edge of the liver, and, glancing round the ribs, was cut out about two inches from the spine. On his being wounded, he could scarcely believe his shoulder was not the part affected. His pulse was inter- mitting ; the breathing hurried and laborious, and in a short time the tunicse conjunctivas became yellow. He was very largely bled, and warm fomentations were applied to the abdomen, from which, and the bleeding, he received some temporary relief; but, in consequence of his removal that night to the rear, the symptoms were much aggravated on the morning of the 10th. He complained of acute pain over the whole abdomen, increased on pressure; vomiting; quick, hard, and wiry pulse (no pain referred to the wound). The bleeding was repeated ad deliquium, warm fomentations and an enema also repeated, and a saline mixture, with a very few drops of tincture of opium, to allay the irritability of his stomach. On the following evening the vomiting had ceased; his pulse was less frequent and hard; pain less. On the 11th, afterpassingaveryrestless night,the pulse again rose; theabdo- men became tense, but not very painful, and he made ineffec- tual efforts to stool. He was again bled, a large blister was applied over the abdomen, and an ounce of castor-oil was given immediately. The blister acted well, and the purgative gave him three copious stools, of dark and foetid faaces. On the 12th he complained of twitching pains, referred to the right shoulder, and was ordered one grain of calomel, with two of antimonial powder, three times a day. Jan. 13.—Was free from pain; pulse fuller, and less fre- quent; urine clear; tension of abdomen subsided. The calomel