336 Portions of broken bone to be removed from the brain. likely to recover from an injury, all foreign or irritating matters having been removed, than when suffering from their presence. 268. The establishment of the principles which ought to regu- late the practice of surgery in cases of fracture with depression of the inner table of the skull, is of the greatest importance. The principle being laid down that it is right and proper to examine all such wounds with a blunt flat probe, in order to ascertain if possible whether the inner table is depressed and broken; the question necessarily arises, what is to be done when such depression and breaking do wn of the inner table have been ascertained to have taken place ? There can be no hesi- tation in answering, that in all such cases the trephine should be applied, although no symptoms should exist, with the view of anticipating them. The old doctrine, it may be said, in regard to fractures generally, is revived in these cases, but on a principle with which our predecessors were not sufficiently acquainted. A patient very often survives a mere depression of the skull; he may, and occasionally does survive,a greater depression of the inner than of the outer table; but it has not been shown that he ever does survive and remain in tolerable health, after a depression with fracture of the inner table, when portions of it have been driven into the dura mater. If cases could be advanced of complete recovery after such injuries, they would not supersede the practice recommended, unless they were so numerous as to establish the fact, that injuries of the dura mater and brain by pieces of bone sticking in them are curable without an operation, and without leaving any serious defects. There are great ob- jections to the trephine being applied in ordinary cases of fracture, not attended by symptoms of further mischief; but the nature of the cases particularly referred to having been ascertained, the practice should be prompt and decisive in every instance in which the surgeon is satisfied that there is not merely a slight depression or separation of the inner table, but that several points of it have been driven into the dura mater. If one trephine will suffice, the central point being applied close to the edge of the middle of the wound in the bone, it should be applied there; but if the cut be longer,