Ball passed per A num. 545 time; but the wound gradually closed in, and the man re- gained his health, and was. sent to the rear, with a slight coloured discharge from the wound, not quite free from odour. Ensign Wright, 61st Regiment, was wounded by a musket- ball, on the morning of the 10th of April, at Toulouse. The ball passed through the abdominal parietes, on the right of the linea alba, nearly half way betwixt the umbilicus and the pubes, and lodged. Sense of debility, tremor, nausea, small feeble pulse, and pain in the lower part of the abdomen, were the immediate symptoms. Peritonitic and enteritic symptoms, of considerable violence, having begun to manifest themselves on the 11th, copious and repeated evacuations of blood were made, by order of Mr. Guthrie, the Deputy Inspector-General in charge of all the wounded. Fomentations were applied to the belly; abstinence in food and drink was strictly enjoined; and the most rigid antiphlogistic regimen followed. The same practice was pursued during the 12th, 13th, and 14th; venesection being performed either two or three times every day, as the augmented state of the local and general inflammatory symptoms seemed to require. The bowels during the above period had continued perfectly free, and the dejections were tolerably natural in colour, but rather dark, and extremely foetid. He had been frequently troubled with nausea, and vomiting of bilious matter. Two small doses of castor-oil had been exhibited. Toast-and-water, tea, boiled milk-and-water, with a little soft bread soaked in it, and mutton and chicken broth, in small quantities at a time, were all that was allowed him for food and drink. April 15.—Pulse above 100, weak and small; temperature natural; the tongue clean. Continued affected with a degree of nausea and vomiting, after drinks especially; and some diarrhoea was present. 17th.—Was bled last night to twelve ounces, in consequence of increased pain of abdomen and augmented pyrexia; to-day, quiet and easy, and has had several stools. 18th. —Diarrhoea and tenesmus troublesome during the night; ball voided with the faeces at six a.m.; it is somewhat A a a 2