36 Delusion 03 to Bayonet Wounds. flicted by the bayonet. When a small instrument passes deep through a fascia, it makes an opening in it which is not in- creased by the natural retraction of parts, inasmuch as it is not sufficiently large to admit of it; and which opening, small as it is, may be filled or closed up by the soft cellular tissue below, which rises into it, and forms a barrier to the discharge of any matter which may be secreted beneath. If the instru- ment should have passed into a muscle, it is evident, that if that muscle were in a state of contraction at the moment of injury, the punctured part must be removed to a certain distance from the direct line of the wound when in a state of relaxation, and vice versd. The matter secreted, and more or less in almost every instance will be secreted, cannot in either case make its escape, and all the symptoms occur of a spon- taneous abscess deeply seated below a fascia. That inflam- mation should spread in a continuous texture,is not uncommon; that matter when confined, should give rise to great constitu- tional disturbance, is, if possible, less so; but that this dis- turbance takes place without the occurrence of inflammation, or of the formation of matter, may be doubted; and it may be concluded, that there is no peculiarity in punctured wounds that may not be accounted for in a satisfactory manner. Serious effects have been attributed to injuries of nerves, but without sufficient reason; nevertheless, those who have seen locked-jaw follow a very simple scratch of the leg from a musket-ball, more frequently than from a greater injury, are not surprised at any symptoms of nervous agitation that may occur after punctured wounds. As many bayonet wounds through mus- cular parts heal with little trouble, it is time enough to dilate them when assistance seems to be required. Cold water should be used at first; care should be taken not to apply a roller or compress of any kind over the wound; and matter, when formed, should be frequently pressed out. 23. A great delusion is cherished in Great Britain on the sub- ject of the bayonet—a sort of monomania very gratifying to the national vanity, but not quite in accordance with matter of fact. Opposing regiments, when formed in line, and charging with fixed bayonets, never meet, and struggle hand to hand and foot to foot; and this for the very best possible reason,