512 Injuries of the Abdominal Paries. has been said to run sometimes nearly round under the skip, or between the muscles and the peritoneum, proceedings upon the recurrence of which little expectation need be placed. It may, however, do something of the kind for a considerable distance, passing even over or between the spinous processes of the vertebrae behind. In such cases, when they actually occur, the course of the ball will usually be marked by a line on the skin, more or less of a reddish-blue colour; and the constitutional alarm, if it should occur at all, will subside early. A ball may, however, pass under and between the muscular layers of the wall of the belly, (or run for several inches nearer to the peritoneum,) giving rise to great anxiety, until the sloughs have separated from the openings of entrance and of exit, at which parts they prevail to a greater extent than in the middle of the track of the projectile. In some few instances an opening will require to be made in the middle of this track or course of the ball for the evacuation of pus, or of other extraneous matters which may be detained in it. When a ball lodges in the wall of the abdomen, and is deeply situated, it sometimes escapes notice, and when found is often better left alone unless it prove troublesome. When it approaches the surface, it may be removed if it cause in- convenience. When removed after the lapse of twenty or more years, I have found some dense cellular membrane form- ing a sac around and adhering to the ball, which is usually more or less flattened and irregular. 378. Injuries of the wall of the abdomen, from cuts or stabs affecting the muscular and tendinous parts, are said to be frequently troublesome, and even dangerous, from their giving rise to pain, vomiting, and severe general derangement. This only occurs when suppuration takes place, and from some ac- cidental circumstance the matter does not find a ready exit, but collects between the muscles, or within or under their aponeurotic sheaths. This is indicated by the pain and swelling of the part, proceeding sometimes to the formation of an abscess, which ought to be prevented, if possible, by an early enlargement of the wound, so as to remove the cause o£Jrri- tation, and the obstacle to the free discharge of the secreted matter. If the swelling should become prominent in a more