114 Primary Amputation of the Arm. below the opening, and the subclavian not to be ligatured till all other means have failed; amputation of the arm by the circular incision; caset'requirmg this operation; Mr. Luke's operation by two flaps; excision of the elbow-joint; injwies of (lie joint not requiring this operation; cases in which it i3 admissible; mode of operating; amputation at the elbow-joint recommended, but not often performed; mode of operating; supposed advantage attend- ing the retention of the olecranon; amputation of the fore-arm; seldom requisite; the flap operation preferable, particularly near thewrist?mode of operating ; the circular operation in the middle of the fore-arm; amputation at the wrist; in all injuries of the hand, requiring an operation, the thumb and one or more fingers to be preserved if possible; treatment of metacarpal bones frac- tured by a muslcet-ball; of injured metacarpal bones, the fingers being destroyed; removal of the heads of the metacarpal bones when necessary; amputation of the phalanges; Langenbeck's operation for excision of the phalangeal joints; excision of the metacarpal bone of the thwinb by Langenheck, tlie periosteum being separated from the bone, and left behind in the wound. 102. An upper extremity should not be amputated for almost any accident which can happen to it from musket-shot; and there is scarcely an injury of the soft parts likely to occur which authorises amputation as a primary operation. 103. If the head or articulating extremity of the bone entering into the composition of the shoulder-joint be merely or slightly injured by musket-shot, the arm ought to be saved with some defect of motion in the joint. The wound should be enlarged in the first instance, to allow of a sufficient examination with the point of the finger, and any loose pieces of bone should be removed. Inflammation is to be restrained within due bounds until suppuration has been established, when, if a clear depending opening should not exist for the discharge of the matter poured out, it should be made, and any loose portions of bone removed. The principal points to attend to are, the prevention of sinuses around the joint, by the forma- tion of dependent openings, position, perfect quietude, due support, the methodical application of bandages, and occa- sional mild stimulating injections into the wound. A simple incised wound penetrating the joint, and even injuring the bone, does not call for any immediate operation. An attempt should be made to effect a cure by the first intention, which can only be managed by means of a proper position and support.