502 /noised Wounds of the Tongue. the bone being sharp and angular. In order to remove the splinters, and to prevent the evils anticipated, M. Baudens divided the lip from the angle downwards and outwards, below the base of the bone, and as far back as the edge of the masseter muscle. He then separated the flaps, and sawed the jaw across, first near the symphysis, and then behind, outside the attachment of the masseter. The facial artery was twisted, four sutures were inserted, and the jaw duly supported. The patient was bled twice, and in six weeks was cured; at the end of that time he could eat solid food. After the healing of such wounds, mechanical means are often necessary to enable the sufferer to eat and to live without causing disgust to his neighbours and friends. It is said there are fifteen men in the Hotel des Invalides in Paris, wearing silver masks on the lower part of their faces, in consequence of injuries of this kind. Colonel Carleton was an instance of a ball fracturing the jaw directly through its body, near where the masseter muscle is attached on both sides; the jaw was in three pieces, besides splinters; several teeth were knocked out, and the tongue very much hurt. By sawing off the splinters both from within and without, and by cleansing and supporting the parts with great care, he recovered after a length of time, the deformity after such a wound being much less than might be ex- pected. 370. Incised wounds of the tongue do sometimes give rise to haemorrhage, somewhat difficult to restrain, particularly if it occur a few days after the receipt of the injury, when the tongue is swollen and painful. It does not so frequently occur after gun-shot wounds. As the vessels of one side do not communicate with those of the other, any bleeding ■which continues after the artery of one side has been properly secured, can only take place from a wound of the artery of the other, which must then also be tied. This should be done by drawing the tongue as far as possible out of the mouth by a flat pair of forceps, which may be easily effected at an early period, when it is not tender and painful. At a later period, and under difficult circumstances, various styptics, such as the mineral acids, the nitrate of silver, &c, will be useful.