538 Enlargement of the external Wound venience to his general health or constitution, until the 6th of October, 1846, when he died of inflammation of the brain, at Fort George, in Scotland. On dissection, the abdominal viscera, including the intestinal canal, appeared perfectly healthy; but on a minute examination of the portion of small intestine (found to be the ileum) situated in the inguinal region of the side operated upon, directly opposite to the cicatrix of the external wound, it was discovered to be firmly attached to the abdominal parietes by an adventitious mem- brane, to the extent of two lines, which then diverged, and formed itself into a canal of a funnel shape for about five incites and a quarter in length, and of a homogeneous structure, which united itself with the continuous intestinal tube. By this •wonderful provision of nature the healthy functions were un- interruptedly carried on, and permanently continued, without any pain or detriment to the patient's general health. On appearance, Jan. 23, 1847. A. Maclean, M.D., late Surgeon, 76th Regiment. Cases of extravasation, or of effusion, terminating by the formation of a sac, pouch, reservoir, or foyer surrounding it, ■whilst the rest of the cavity remains free from inflammation, are so rare in natives of our northern climates, that I am indisposed to infer that they do take place, except as very accidental circumstances. The fact that such things do take place should be borne in mind, and surgery should not be wanting in giving its aid, under all well considered and reasonable circumstances. It is easier to do nothing than to think and to act. The general treatment to be pursued in the acute period of all these cases of inflammation, has been sufficiently marked, antiphlogistic to the utmost extent consistent with pro- priety, by bleeding, leeching, and cupping ; the repeated administration of enemata; the early exhibition of mercury and opium, and subsequently of gentle aperients. 397. Continental surgeons, and by pre-eminence Baron Larrey, who is followed on this point by most French surgeons, inculcate the necessity of enlarging the wounds made by a musket-ball in the wall of the belly, although the baron is par-