Ligature of the Common Iliac Artery. 256 so that they might not be in the line of the incision, and that they should be covered by newly divided healthy parts, so that they might thus adhere to each other. Three strong sutures and three or four smaller ones were put in through the skin, in order to prevent the parts bursting asunder from the move- ments of the patient. This operation was only formidable, as a whole, from the circumstance, that space could not be obtained for the introduction of both bands, for, strange as it may appear, the safety of, and ease in doing the operation, depend on the first incision in the fore part of the abdomen being so large that the peritoneum containing the bowels may be freely drawn over by the expanded hands of the assistant, so that the operator can see what he is doing beneath. In my first case the whole of the parts under the peritoneum could be distinctly seen, and several gentlemen not in the profession who were present, saw the common iliac artery in its natural situation. The patient suffered little or nothing from the operation, which was performed on the Saturday; there was no augmentation of the pulse until Sunday evening, when it rose to 120; she then experienced some pain, which was materially diminished, although not altogether removed, by the abstraction of four- teen ounces of blood. At four in the morning, Mr. Hancock, now surgeon to the Charing-cross Hospital, took away fourteen ounces more, after which she had not a bad symptom. The bowels were not moved for the first four days. The tempera- ture of the limb diminished, but not much, which may be attributed to the limb being constantly rubbed night and day by two persons; and a hot brick, or bottles of hot water, covered with flannel, being applied to the feet, of the tempera- ture of from 120° to 140°. One nurse rubbed the lower part of the limb, and another the upper, for three days and threenights; if an interval of a few minutes occurred, a hot flannel was put on the limb. The friction was very slight, so as not to injure the cuticle. The patient occasionally dozed a little; still the same gentle friction was kept up. The ligature came away on the twenty-sixth day after the operation. The external incision healed very readily, but was followed, as is usual in all exten- sive wounds of the muscular wall of the abdomen, by a