426 Collapse of the Lung not constant. he external wound was enlarged, until I could distinctly hear the air rush out, and see the part where the weapon had penetrated between the ribs; upon which he declared himself relieved, when the wound was closed by compress and ban- dage. It did not, however, unite; active inflammation of the cavity of the chest ensued, requiring frequent and consider- able losses of blood for its suppression. At the end of three weeks the man was sent to Elvas, in a favourable state for recovery. 324. When an opening is made into the cavity of the chest in the dead body, the lung gradually recedes from the pleura lining its wall, for some distance; it is said to collapse; but this does not take place to anything like the same extent in the living body; and if the continued admission of air through the wound be prevented, it scarcely takes place at all: or, should it have done so, the air is usually absorbed, and the lung quickly recovers its natural dimensions and functions. Neither does a wound in the chest, when kept open, usually cause this collapse to the extent which it is generally sup- posed to do in the living body. The lung can be seen in motion, and performing its office, although imperfectly, as it does not fill the cavity of the pleura. When the lung is wounded by a ball actually going through its substance, it does not neces- sarily collapse; and abrasions, or deeper injuries of its surface, lead to no such result. To cause the complete collapse of a living lung, its surface muRt bo compressed by a fluid, as in empyema, or by confined air, as in emphysema, or in pneumo- horax. In extreme cases, when the patient can no longer lie down, but sits up, supported, in the greatest agony of respiration, approaching to suffocation, the face and lips swollen and blue, the pulse almost imperceptible and countless, an opening should be made into the chest by a trocar and canula, for the purpose of evacuating the highly compressed and compressing air, and to allow the expansion of the lung after its evacuation. When this compressed air has been drawn off, as in the case of Lord Beaumont, the compressing power being removed, the lung expands in part, if not entirely, in spite of the breach in it, aud the mediastinum and heart return to their natural situ-