193 Cases illustrative of the Practice. wounded at the battle of Rolica, in August, 1809, by a musket- ball, which passed through the anterior and upper part of the fore-arm, fracturing the ulna. Shortly afterwards a profuse haemorrhage took place, and the staff surgeon in charge tied the brachial artery. In the night the haemorrhage recurred, and the man nearly bled to death. The arm was then ampu- tated, when the ulnar artery was found in an open and slough- ing state. Be/marks.—A simple incision to expose the wounded artery and to place two ligatures upon it, would have saved this man his arm, and his life. At the battle of Vimiera, which followed a few days after- wards, a soldier received a somewhat similar wound, save that the brachial artery bled forthwith, which was only stopped by the tourniquet. Warned by the preceding case, I cut down on the artery, carefully avoiding the nerve, which had been tied in the former instance, and found the artery more than half divided. It was secured by a ligature above and below the wound; the bleeding did not afterwards return, and the man recovered. 185. Thomas Carryan, of the 3rd regiment, was wounded at Albuhera, on the 16th May, 1811, on the inside of the calf of the right leg, the ball passing out on the fore and outside of the tibia: it bled considerably for some minutes, when it ceased, and the haemorrhage did not return until the 15th of June, on which day a little blood followed the dressings, and increased on the patient making any exertion; so that on the 4th, the gentleman under whose care he was, tied the femoral artery on the outside of the sartorius muscle, which suppressed the haemorrhage for that day, the limb continuing with little or no interruption of the same temperature to the hand as the other. On the 5th, the original wound had a bad appearance, and some coagulated blood was readily pressed out of it; on the 6th, a greater quantity came away; and on the 7th, the exertion of using the bed-pan was followed by a stream of arterial blood, which ceased on tightening the pre- cautionary tourniquet. The limb was amputated above the ligature on the artery. Its dissection showed the anterior tibial artery to have been s