Entrance and Exit of Balls. 25 its dangerous nature, which nothing but its subsidence, and the absence of symptoms peculiar to the internal part presumed to be injured, should remove. The opinion given under such cir- cumstances should be very guarded; for if this symptom of alarm should continue, great fears may be entertained of hidden mischief. Colonel Sir "W. Myers was shot at Albuhera at the head of the Fusilier brigade, at the moment of victory, by a musket-ball, which broke his thigh, and lodged. The continuance of the alarm and anxiety satisfied me it had done other mischief. He died next day, of gangrene of the intes- tines. General Sir Robert Crawford was wounded at the foot of the lesser breach at the storming of Ciudad Rodrigo by a musket-ball, which entered the outer and back part of the shoulder, and came out at the axilla. There was a third wound, a small slit in the side, apparently too small to admit a ball. The continuance of the anxiety and alarm pointed out some hidden mischief, which I declared had taken place; and when he died, his surgeon found the ball loose in his chest. It had been rolling about on his diaphragm. Surgery was not advanced enough in those days, to point out the situation, or to authorize an attempt for the removal of the ball. It must in future be done. This constitutional alarm and derangement are not always present to so marked an extent. A soldier at Talavera was struck on the head by a twelve-pound shot, which drove some bone into, and some brain out of, his head: he was walking about, complaining but little. 7. It is not always possible from their appearance to decide which opening is the entrance, which the exit of a ball; or when two holes are distant from each other, to ascertain whether they have been caused by one, or by two distinct balls. When a ball is not impinging with much impetus, it may become a penetrating, without being much of a contused wound, which will close in and heal with little suppuration. If the ball do not press upon, or interfere with some important part, the little inflammation which follows may give rise to the formation of a sac, which adheres to and possibly keeps it quiet for years, if not for life. 8. The wound made by the entrance of a musket-ball is D