122 Excision of the head of the Humerus. cut through, and the sub-scapularis, inserted into the small tuberosity, should also be divided. The head of the bone is then readily brought out, and may be easily detached from any surrounding connexions, and sawn off with little, or almost no loss of blood. The elbow is to be supported, so as to bring the end of the sawn bone in apposition with the glenoid cavity. The flap may be allowed to unite with the parts below as soon as it will, the shot-holes, if any, being in general sufficient to allow of such discharge as may be necessary. In cases of recent injury, some aid will be obtained in keep- ing the sawn end of the humerus in apposition with the glenoid cavity, by not dividing the long tendon of the biceps. This must be done by dissecting it out of its groove in the humerus, between the tuberosities, and by cutting through the cap- sular ligament vertically, so as to follow it up to its attach- ment to the upper edge of the glenoid cavity, when it is to be drawn aside with a blunt hook, until the operation has been completed: a proceeding difficult of accomplishment in old cases of disease or injury, and in them not necessary nor ad- visable. 117. Professor B. Langenbeck, in order to save the deltoid muscle, proposed and practised this operation during the Danish war in Schleswig Holstein in the following manner, with success in several instances. Begin the incision through the integuments and deltoid muscle immediately below the anterior border of the acromion, and continue it directly downwards, over the minor tuberosity of the humerus, to the extent of four inches. Separate the parts, open the sheath of the long tendon of the biceps muscle, and draw out and hold it on one side with a blunt hook. Botate the arm out- wards (if it urill rotate) to facilitate the division of the tendon of the sub-scapularis; then rotate the arm inwards, to aid in the division of the tendons of the supra spinatus, infra- spinatus, and teres minor muscles, inserted into the great tuberosity. Complete the division of the capsular ligament, push the bone through from below, using the arm as a lever if you can, and saw it off. No arteries of consequence are wounded.