40 Treatment by Incision. tinous appearance arising from the fluid secreted into them now nearly in the act of being converted into pus. The septa dividing the tissue into cells have not, at this period, lost their life, and the fluid hardly exudes, as it will be found to do a few hours later, when the matter deposited has be- come purulent. When this change has taken place, the patient is in danger, and if relief be not given, he will often die under the most marked symptoms of irritative fever of a typhoid type. Nature herself sometimes gives the required relief, by the destruction of the superincumbent skin; but this part is tough, offers considerable resistance, and does not readily yield until the deep-seated fascia is implicated, and the muscular parts are about to be laid bare, An incision made into the inflamed part, through the cellular tissue, and down to the deeper-seated fascia, which should not be divided in the first instance, gives relief. One of four inches in length usually admits of a separation of its edges to the amount of two inches, by which the tension of the skin, which principally causes the mischief which follows the inflammation, is removed. As many incisions are required as will relieve this tension, according to the extent of the inflammation, which is also relieved by the flow of blood, which requires attention, as it is often considerable, particularly if the deep fascia be divided, on which the larger vessels are found to lie. If the necessary incisions are delayed until the quagmire feeling is fully established, the skin above it is generally under- mined and dies. The following case is given as the first known in London in which long incisions were made for the cure of this disease; and their effect in relieving the constitutional irritation is so strongly marked as to need no further explanation. Thomas K , aged forty, a hard drinker, was admitted into the "Westminster Hospital, under my care, on the 21st of October, 1823, having fallen and injured his left arm against a stool four days previously. On the 30th, the skin being very tense, the part springy and yielding the boggy feel described, pulse 120, mind wandering, I proposed, in consultation with my colleagues, to make incisions into the part; but which