Immediate Amputation enforced- 9 demn the last strong point yet taught by every one, that an amputation in sound parts should follow, in most instances, the formation of the line of separation hetween the dead and the living parts which occurs in all cases which end favourably. I have done so because experience has taught me that this amputation almost always causes the unnecessary loss of the joint above the mortified part, whilst it is frequently the cause of the death of the sufferer, who might without it, have escaped. The chemistry of modern times has shown the means of destroying the insupportable odour of putrefying parts so destructive to the failing strength of the patient, and which was often a determining cause for amputation. Of these deodorizing means, which are now so effectual, men of science should take advantage, and there are none better, if so good, as the solution of chloride of zinc invented by Sir William Burnet. The necessity for immediate amputation, under certain circumstances, -when formerly forbidden; and the abstaining from it under others, when formerly recom- mended, are two improvements of the utmost importance in modern surgery, due to that war. The opinion of Mr. Hunter, which was inculcated at the commencement of the war in Portugal, in 1808, that an ampu- tation, even if necessary, or likely to be eventually necessary, had better be deferred for several weeks, until the constitution of the patient should have been accustomed to the injury, could not be enforced for want of the necessary conveniences; and was found to be practically erroneous by every surgeon who was obliged to perform these operations as soon as pos- sible after the receipt of the injury; and although the first amputation done in that country, after the battle of Rolica, was performed by myself, and the last, in all probability, under my direction, at the battle of Toulouse, no one can claim precedence over his brethren, in showing the inaccuracy of his views previously entertained on this subject—an inac- curacy now universally acknowledged. Mr. J. Bell had taught that the great arteries leading to the extremities of the body, could not be compressed by any ordinary means so as to prevent the passage of blood through them, to the probable loss of life from this cause alone. An