All general rules admit of exceptions. B45 examination was so soft, and the feeling of depressed bone beneath so distinct, combined with the fact of the continued lethargic state of the patient, that an incision was made into it, when the bone beneath was found broken into several small pieces. On clearing away the blood, twfi pieces which were loose were readily raised and removed by the elevator and forceps, and egress given to an ounce or two of blood, which were extravasated beneath, apparently from the rupture of the vessels passing between the dura mater and the bone. The patient regained his senses in the course of the night and morning of the third day, and under a strictly anti- phlogistic regimen gradually recovered, some other small pieces of bone coming away; one or two others apparently re-uniting to the uninjured parts, showing that it is not always necessary to remove every portion of bone which may be broken, provided any bond of union remains, and principally that which exists between it and the dura mater. These different cases stand out in bold relief as eminently successful, and opposed to those said to have been equally so under la chirurgie expectante. They tend to show that however good a general rule may be.it may admit of many and important exceptions; and they prove that experience, aided by sound and correct observation, is essentially necessary for the form- ation of a scientific surgeon. 273. In young persons the brain will bear a greater degree of pressure and of irritation with impunity than it will in persons of mature age. By far the greater number of cases in which recovery has taken place after fracture and depression of the skull with injury of the brain, and even loss of its substance, have occurred in children or in persons under the adult age- greater reliance may therefore be placed on the powers of nature in them, and less frequent recourse may be had to the aid ot operative surgery in order to prevent mischief, than in older persons, even when the bone is fractured as well as depressed. It will be found, and the remark is important, that cases of fracture and depression reported to have been successfully treated without operation, have occurred prin- cipally in young persons. The result of my experience has rendered it imperative to