303 Illustrative Case. sensible, sat up in bed, and vomited some blood. In the afternoon lie had another and slighter fit, from which he quickly recovered. On the third day he was free from all bad symptoms; and said, when asked, that he had only a very slight headache. The pulse occasionally intermitted. On the fourth he declared he was starved, became snappish and irritable, complained of pain in the head, and had a quick and irregular pulse. On the fifth, he got up and dressed himself, had another slight convulsive fit, and fell into a state of stupefaction, for which bleeding gave little relief; and in the evening he died. From the first period of his improving until his death, sensation and motion remained. On examina- tion a starred fracture without depression was found corre- sponding to the wound on the forehead, continuing to the base of the frontal bone, across the ethmoid, over the body of the sphenoid bone, breaking off the posterior clinoid processes, and extending to the basilar process of the occipital bone, but not quite to the foramen magnum. The anterior lobe of the right hemisphere of the cerebrum was lacerated to the extent of an inch; that part was surrounded by the usual appear- ances of inflammation. Some blood was extravasated on the tentorium, beneath the posterior lobe of the brain, and lymph was effused over the whole of its surface, between the arach- noid membrane and the pia mater. The trephine, if resorted to, would only have added to the mischief. Inebriation from spirituous liquors may complicate a case at its earliest period, from the stupefaction it occasions; but the odour of the spirits is usually demonstrative of the fact, and the stomach-pump in such cases is an admirable remedy. 251. Mania sometimes supervenes on concussion, as the in- flammatory symptoms subside. It is best treated by the dif- ferent preparations of opium. George Grey, aged forty-five, a stout man, fell, Nov. 1, 1839, from an omnibus, and received a blow on the right parietal bone, a little behind the coronal suture. He lies on his back in a state of stupefaction, although sensible when pinched, but is restless, and suffers from convulsive motions of the'