Manner of Making a Continuous Suture. 531 trachea of a calf, brought the divided intestine over it, and fastened it by a suture. The trachea was passed on the twenty-first day, and the external wound was closed by the forty-fifth, the patient recovering. Ramdohr, a German surgeon, who lived in the early part of the last century, seems to have been the first to join the ends of a divided bowel by introducing the upper end within the lower. He removed two feet of mortified intestine in a case of strangulated hernia; performed this operation on the ends of the bowel, retained the parts by stitches, and his patient perfectly recovered. Heister says the mortified parts were in his possession. (Haller's Disputac. Anatom. vol. vi. Observ. Med. Miscel. 18.) Since his time many of the most eminent surgeons of France, Italy, America, and Great Britain have turned their attention to this subject, but the conclusion at which I have arrived is, that the continuous suture is in all cases of serious injury the most simple and the best. 391. In making a continuous suture, a fine needle anda waxed silken thread should be introduced through the gut, beginning on the inside close to one end of the cut part, aud bringing it out on the peritoneal surface a little more than a line distant from where it entered. The needle is then to be carried to the opposite side through the bowel from without inwards, and the sewing thus continued uutil completed, each stitch being about the sixth part of an inch asunder, and about that distance from the edge of the cut. The threads or stitches should not be drawn close until the whole are inserted, when on being drawn moderately tight one after another the cut edge of the intestine should be turned inward by a blunt probe, so that the peritoneal surfaces shall be in contact under the stitches, and in the best situation for union, tho mucous coat forming a ridge within; the outside being perfectly smooth, the stitches not being too light, whilst the end may be secured by a knot made by a turn of the thread over the needle. This done, the intestine should be returned into the cavity of the abdomen and events awaited. Recoveries more frequently follow wounds of the colon than of the jejunum or ileum, but the result must always be doubtful, beiug dependent on many causes which the surgeon can neither foresee nor control.