421 Illustrative Case of Lord Beaumont. 14th.—Eight o'clock: Slept after four o'clock; on waking took an aperient draught, and is much easier; pulse 120, soft, small, and weak.—Three p.m.: On the dyspnoea returning twenty-one leeches were applied, and the oppression was re- lieved; an enema given, which acted freely. — Half-past twelve: A returning oppression relieved by eleven leeches; calomel repeated, and thirty minims of solution of opium. 15th.—Eight a.m.: Slept at intervals; little or no expecto- ration, no blood; thinks he would faint if he sat up in bed; pulse 130, soft, small, and weak; little pain; lies tolerably flat; respiratory murmur distinct on both sides.—Nine p.m.: Oppression returned; twenty-four leeches; repeat calomel and colocynth; an enema, after which the bowels became free. —Evening: Six grains of calomel, and opium draught. 16th.—Eight a.m.: Had forty-eight leeches applied at intervals twice during the night; slept at intervals, and is easier; no pain in the chest; pulse 108.—Evening: An enema; six grains of calomel, and one grain of opium. 17th.—Eight a.m : Slept during the night, and is better; pulse 108, soft; breathes freely; no pain. —Evening: Has had leeches applied twice during the day, making in all 245, and each time with relief; an enema,—calomel and opium as before.—Twelve at night: More oppression, and, as the pulse was fuller and quicker, a vein in the arm was opened, but only four ounces of blood could be obtained. 18th.—Eight a.m.: Slept at intervals, although very restless; pulse 120, fuller; oppression in breathing returning; bleeding' to twenty ounces, which caused him to faint; senna draught. Evening: Has been much relieved by the bleeding; blood cupped and buffy; twenty leeches; enema; calomel and opium. In the night, at two o'clock, the dyspnoea returning, twenty- two leeches were applied, and thirty minims of solution of opium given. 19th.—Eight a.m.: Easier, quieter, better; pulse 110, soft; can lie quite flat on his back. The wound discharged so little^ that the external parts were dilated inwards towards the ster- num, until the pulsation of an artery could be seen, perhaps the internal mammary, which it was not thought advisable to