191 Proofs of Contraction and Retraction. fibrin, but with a less degree of contraction than the upper end of the same artery; the layer still, however, forming an obstacle sufficient to cover and close three-fourths of the ori- fice, the blood having flowed through the remaining fourth, which had probably given way by accident; which accident is usually some sudden or continued motion being given to the extremity or part injured, and which motion it is imperatively necessary to avoid, when the lower end of a wounded artery has not been secured by ligature. A soldier who had his arm carried away by the bursting of a shell at the siege of Ciudad Rodrigo, was brought to me shortly afterwards. The axillary artery becoming brachial, was torn across, and hung down lower than the other divided parts, pulsating to its very extremity. Pressed and squeezed in every way between my fingers in order to make it bleed, it still resisted every attempt, although apparently by the narrowest possible barrier, which appeared to be at the end of the artery, and formed by its contraction. The orifice of the canal was marked by a small red point, to which a very slight and thin layer of coagulum adhered, the removal of which had no influence on the resistance offered by the very extremity of the artery to the passage of blood through it. In this, and in another instance of a similar nature, the end of the artery being cut off at less than an eighth of an inch from the extremity, it bled with its usual vigour. In both, the vessel for near that distance was contracted so as to leave little or no canal at its orifice, which in these cases was filled by a coagulum of the size and shape of a very small pin. Private J. Barnes, 29th Regiment, on the 16th of May, 1811, at the battle of Albuhera, received a musket-ball in the right thigh, behind and above the knee, inclining downwards and inwards, close to the condyles of the femur, and in the direction of the femoral artery becoming popliteal; it bled violently at the moment, and so continued for a few minutes, during which time he conceives he lost two quarts of blood. It then ceased, and he was dressed in the usual slight manner, and remained two days upon the field of battle, until removed to Valverde, nine miles, on a bad road, and on men's shoulders,