482 Probability of a Hernia in consequence. upwards and back again cannot be doubted; and it is probable that incarceration may take place for a length of time before strangulation occurs from some sudden and distending impulse giving rise to it. When the solid viscera of the abdomen are injured as well as the diaphragm against which they are applied in their natural situation, the wound may sometimes be considered a fortunate one; for the liver or spleen may adhere to the open- ing in the diaphragm, and fill up the space between its edges. A wound of the diaphragm may be suspected from the course of the ball, particularly when it passes across the chest below the true ribs. It is necessarily accompanied by an opening into the cavity of the abdomen, and is by so much the more dangerous. The symptoms will partake of an injury to both, although they are principally referable to that of the chest, and are those of intense inflammation, accompanied by a difficulty of breathing, which in the case of Mr. Drummond was a peculiar sort of jerk; in that of Captain Prevost it was more spasmodic. The risus sardonicus, hiccough, pain on the top of the shoulder, and loss of power of the arm, which were all more or less present, in all probability depended on some larger fibrils of the phrenic nerve being wounded. The treatment should be antiphlogistic, with a free external open- ing for the discharge of matter. The accession of jaundice shows an injury to the liver; vomiting of blood, or its passage per anum, indicates a wound of the stomach or intestines. 353. When the patient recovers, the probability of a hernia taking place into the chest, through the diaphragm, should be explained to him; if any reason should exist for the belief that it had occurred, he should be doubly cautious, as to eating and drinking in small quantities only, and remaining in the erect position for some time after each meal; he should carefully avoid a stooping posture, and all muscular exertion or straining. If symptoms of strangulation should come on, an opening made into the abdomen would appear to offer the only chance for life. The hernia may perhaps be drawn back into its place in the abdomen; but if firm adhesions have formed between the protruded part and the edges of the opening in the diaphragm, the case must be treated as one of