Wounds of the Stomach. 559 of the passage being free. It is a sufficient reason for such operation to allow the opening in the stomach to be seen. It is very probable that effusion will take place into the cavity of the abdomen if it be not done, and the death of the patient will follow. It is very probable he will die if it be done, and therefore in such cases little has been hitherto attempted. I am of opinion, however, that in the case I have last alluded to a blunt hook may be sometimes introduced through the wound into the stomach, so as to keep it stationary whilst the external opening is carefully enlarged; and that it ought to be done in such cases, and the wound in the stomach closed, in the manner recommended. I have never had a case under my care in which I could have done this; but I have seen some die in whom it might have been done, and it deserves to be considered, when surgeons shall be in sufficient numbers on a field of battle to attend to such recommendations, and to the after-treatment these cases require. When the stomach is injured by a musket-ball, and its contents are discharged externally, the edges of the wound, not being in a condition to unite, must remain open for several days. The person should be placed in the meantime in the most easy and comfortable position, which may enable the contents of the stomach to be readily passed out externally if they show any disposition to be thus evacuated. The ex- ternal wound should be dilated as far as the peritoneum, if it should require it, so as to admit of the passage being direct, and symptoms must be awaited, and treated as they arise. If the patient should survive the first or inflammatory stage he should be supported by clysters composed of strong beef or veal broth, given five or six times during the twenty-four hours. When it may be expected that the wound in the stomach has closed, or that the injured portion has adhered to the neighbouring parts, warm jellies and light broths may be frequently given in small quantities, but solid food should be forbidden until complete recovery has taken place I have seen inattention to this precaution in more than one instance prove fatal. 408. Fistulous openings have been known to follow wounds of the stomach, and to continue for years. The case related by