29 of a Gun-shot Wound. becomes less painful to the patient, although frequently more sensible when touched. If there be two openings, the exit of the ball, or the counter opening, is in general much the cleanest, being often in a fair granulating state before the entrance of the ball is free from slough. If the inflammation have been smart, the limb is at this time, a little swelled for some dis- tance around; fibrin and serum are thrown out into the cellu- lar membrane, or areolar tissue, as it is now termed; the redness diminishes; the sloughs are discharged, together with any little extraneous substances which may be in the wound; and there is frequently a slight bleeding, if the irritable granula- tions are roughly treated. The limb, on the twelfth, and even fifteenth day, retains the appearance of yellowness and discoloration which ensues from a bruise, and which con- tinues a few days longer. The sloughs do not, sometimes, separate until this period, and, in persons slow to action, not even until a later one. The wound now contracts; the middle portion of the track first closes, and is no longer pervious; the lower opening soon heals, whilst that made by the entrance of the ball continues to discharge for some time, and towards the end of six weeks, or sometimes two months, finally heals with a depression and cicatrix, marking distinctly the injury that has been received. 16. The state of constitution, the difliculties and distresses of military warfare, exposure to the inclemency of the weather, or the imprudence of individuals, will sometimes bring on a train of serious symptoms, in wounds apparently of the same nature. After the first two or three days, the symptoms gradually increase, the swelling is much augmented, the redness extends, and the pain is more severe and constant. The wound becomes dry, stiff, with glistening edges, the general sensibility is increased, the system sympathizes, the skin becomes hot and dry, the tongue loaded, the head aches, the patient is restless and uneasy, the pulse full and quick, there is fever of the inflammatory kind. The swelling of the part increases from deposition in the areolar tissue to a con- siderable extent above.and below the wound, and the inflam- mation, instead of being entirely superficial or confined to the d2