300 Trehtment of Concussion; Illustrative Cases. lieved. On the third morning he became more loquacious and forgetful, was occasionally incoherent, and complained of a certain loss of power, and of numbness in the right side. Pulse 84, full and regular; tongue white; some confusion of ideas was evident, with slight headache. He was cupped at ten in the morning to ten ounces, without advantage; as all the symptoms appeared to be increasing, at four in the after- noon sixteen ounces of blood were taken from the arm, which produced a marked effect for some time. At ten at night the symptoms having returned, and the blood drawn being very much cupped and buffed, twelve ounces more were taken from the arm, when the pulse quickened, and began to in- termit; he appeared to be about to faint, and the object seemed to be attained. Calomel and opium were then given every four hours until the mouth became affected; but the essential symptoms were already subdued, and the patient recovered, with a slight sensation of numbness and loss of power of the right side of the body and head. The necessary effect was in this case produced by the loss of forty ounces of blood. In a younger and more vigorous man it might have required three or four times as much to have been taken away by repeated bleedings, before the object could have been attained; of this the following case is a good instance. Mr. B , having jumped out of a carriage, the horses of which were running away at full gallop, fell on his face, and was found insensible and motionless. Some cold water having been poured upon him, he gradually recovered, and afterwards ate a hearty dinner, drank a bottle of port-wine, and walked home, a distance of three miles. He thought himself quite well the next morning, and went to bathe; but on returning about noon he felt uneasy, lay down on a sofa, began to talk incoherently, and was soon quite delirious. At one o'clock he was bled, but the symptoms of inflammation were not completely subdued until he had lost eighty-four ounces of blood, the last quantity being taken away at eleven at night. The vigorous treatment adopted in this case during the first ten hours in all probability saved the life of the patient.