. Wounds of the Face. 497 original wound cannot be enlarged; although Birch, says Christopher Wren, hung up a man wounded in this way, by the heels, when the ball dropped out through the glottis and mouth. General Sir E. Pakenham, who was killed at New Orleans by a ball which went through the common iliac artery, had been twice shot through the neck in earlier life. The first shot, which went through high up, from right to left, turned his head a little to the right. The second shot, from left to right, brought it straight. My kind and excellent friend had ever afterwards a great respect and regard for the doctors and a strong feeling for the wounded. The recollec- tion of that regard, and the advantages derived from it, has made me sometimes think it might be advantageous for the unfortunate as well as for the doctors, if every general could be at least shot once through the neck or the body, before he was raised to the command of an army in the field; for there is nothing like actual experience of suffering to make men feel for their fellow-creatures in distress. 365. Wounds of the face made by swords, or sharp cutting instruments, should be always retained in contact by sutures. When the cut is of small extent, and not deep, the skin only should be included by the thread, and that in the slightest pos- sible manner, and the part supported by adhesive plaster and bandage. When the cheek is divided into the mouth, one, two, or more sutures may require to be inserted more deeply,' but the deformity of a broad cicatrix will in general be avoided, by carefully sewing up the whole line, taking the very edge of skin only; and a cut in the bone or bones of the cheek should not prevent the attempt being made to unite the external wound over it. Incised or even lacerated wounds of the eyelids and brows should be united by suture, as far as it can possibly be done in the first instance, by which a subsequent painful operation may be avoided; great care should be taken in doing this; the suture must be inserted through the eyelid, and a leaden thread is often the best, the first being introduced at the very edge of the lid, and two, or as many more afterwards as may be necessary. They may remain for three or more days, as cir- cumstances seem to require. If the eye be wounded, any part c u 2