382 Effusion into (lie Chest. and does not attract attention, unless accompanied by a thin, frothy, mucous expectoration, indicating the presence of bronchitis; of pneumonia, if reddish. The patient usually lies on his back while the pain is severe, and has a great in- disposition to turn fully on to the affected side. At a later period, when effusion has taken place, he turns on this side to relieve the difficulty of breathing, caused by the pressure of the fluid on the sound lung through the bulging of the mediastinum; but the manner of lying, or decubitus, is of little importance, and should be subservient to the feelings of the patient, who is sometimes comfortable only when raised to nearly an erect position. When the complaint is not subdued at an early period, an effusion of serous fluid, more or less in quantity, takes place. The whole cavity of the side affected has been known to be filled in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, giving rise to symptoms dependent on the degree to which the effusion has taken place: this is the evil which in injuries penetrating the cavity of the. chest is most to be feared. When the external wound has been closed, or is so partially closed as not to allow the escape of the effused fluid, it is commonly the immediate cause of the death of the patient. Its secretion and early evacuation are therefore the most important points to be attended to in wounds of the chest. The respiratory murmur becomes less distinct as soon as the pain prevents the ordinary distension of the affected side of the chest, and diminishes the quantity of air which usually penetrates the lung in any given time. As soon as a thin layer of fluid commences to be thrown out between the pleurae, this murmur becomes fainter, and when it is complete it ceases. If the patient can bear percussion, the side affected yields a dull, dead sound, instead of the ordinary clear sonorous one of health. The position of the patient when erect, by causing the fluid to descend, may allow of the respiratory murmur being heard at the upper part of the chest; and it may be perceived in front, but not behind, when he lies on his back, until the cavity is filled, when the sound altogether ceases. At the spot in the back corresponding to the root of the lung, or at any other point at which a previously-formed