484 Theory of the Sounds of the Heart. the centre of the second bone to the upper edge of the appendix of the right ventricle; and the centre of the third bone corresponds to the right side of the right auricle; the right ventricle being lower down. A needle penetrating the chest at the costal extremity of the fifth rib, close to the upper edge of its cartilage, will touch the septum of the ventricle. The apex of the heart is an inch and a half below this, and inclined to the left side. The semilunar valves of the pulmonary artery correspond to a spot a little below the centre of the third bone of the sternum. The aortic valves are a few lines below and behind the pulmonary. The mitral valves are a little lower, and still more deeply seated. The pulmonary artery, after touch- ing the sternum, inclines to the left, and is found close to the sternum, between the second and third ribs. The aorta ascends to the first bone, and crosses it to form the arch. One-third of the heart, consisting of the upper part of the right ventricle and of the whole of the right auricle, is beneath the sternum; the remainder of the right, with the left ventricle and auricle, are to the left side of that bone. 356. On applying the ear to the prsecordial region, the patient being in the erect position, two sounds are distinguishable in a healthy heart—one duller and more prolonged, the other clearer and shorter; between these there is scarcely an appre- ciable interval. The period of repose is sufficiently marked before the first or duller sound returns. Of the time thus occupied, one half is filled up by the first or dull sound; one quarter by the second or sharp sound; one quarter by the pause or period of repose. Twenty-nine theories have been proposed, each accounting for the sounds of the heart. The theory of Dr. Billing appears to prevail at present, which supposes that the sounds thus heard " are caused by the valves, which, being mem- branous, each time they resist the reflux of the blood, are thrown into a state of sudden tension, which produces sound." The impulse of the heart, as far as it can be felt by the touch, depends much on the position in which the body is placed. In the erect position it is heard between the fifth and sixth ribs. In the recumbent posture the impulse is