Illustrative Oases. 342 was bled again this day to the extent of twelve ounces, as a matter of precaution. 23rd. Continues free from any bad symptom. May 8th. The wound is now much contracted} and he feels no inconvenience. A small portion of the bone still feels bare to the probe, but the greater portion of the depressed piece is covered with healthy granulations. No exfoliation has taken place. May 24th. The wound is nearly healed; he is in good health and spirits, and without incon- venience. This case may be properly contrasted with that of O'BrieD, as showing by the result the difference between an uninjured and an injured brain. If the fractured and depressed bone had not been at the back part of the head, it is probable the depressed portion would have been removed in the first in- stance, as it certainly would have been after the 15th, if the unfavourable symptoms had not yielded to the general treat- ment; but the bone would then have been removed under much more unfavourable circumstances than at first. The following case is related in support of the extent to which blood-letting ought frequently to be carried to pre- serve life. There having been no reason to believe that the symptoms depended on fractured and depressed bone, the scalp was not divided; and as the symptoms were coeval with, and not consecutive on, the injury, they were therefore sup- posed to depend on concussion rather than on compression of the brain. If the trephine had been applied on the fourth day because the insensibility continued, the additional injury would in all probability have proved fatal. If the depletion of all kinds had been less effective, the inflammation of the brain, or of its membranes, would certainly have terminated in the effusion of lymph or the formation of matter, which the use of the trephine would not have prevented nor re- moved. George Mills, an artillery driver, aged twenty-eight, was admitted into the Dep&t de Mendicite Hospital, Toulouse, May 29,1814, in consequence of having been thrown from his horse on his head against the ground. He had fallen on the right side of the os frontis, immediately above the eye, where the surface of the skin appeared to be scratched and bruised,