362 Two kinds of Protrusion of the Brain. truded at the part where there was the least opposition. When the tumour was torn off, little haemorrhage ensued, but a dark-brown, bloody cavity was seen in the substance of the brain; and when cut off and examined, the protruded part seemed to be covered by the pia mater, with or without a layer of cerebral matter, and was made up generally of coagulated blood. No case of this kind recovered. In the second kind of protrusion, or that which usually although not necessarily takes place when the first or active inflammatory symptoms are on the decline, the tumour is formed of the substance of the brain. It has been supposed that in whatever manner a case of hernia cerebri may arrive at a favourable termination, there must inevitably be a loss of brain proportionate to the extent of the protrusion—a conclu- sion which the experience of the Peninsular war did not con- firm, whilst it may lead to the establishment of an erroneous practice for the too early removal of the protrusion. The loss of a portion of one of the hemispheres of the brain is now known to occasion little or no inconvenience in many instances, either to the intellectual or corporeal faculties; nevertheless, as the precise quantity which a person may lose with impunity has not been ascertained, it may be. as well not to deprive a patient of any, provided its removal can be dispensed with; and that it may be so dispensed with the practice of that war gave positive proof in several instances, by the protruded part being gradually withdrawn within the skull, the wound having afterwards healed by the ordinary processes of nature. There were three cases of recovery from a protrusion of the brain after the battle of Toulouse. Bernard Duffy, 40th Regiment, aged twenty-four, was wounded on the 10th of April, and admitted into the Caserne de Calvete Hospital, on the 13th, with fracture and depression of the upper part of the os frontis. Some portions of detached bone were removed; he was largely bled and purged. On the 14th, he complained of severe pain in the head, giddiness, dimness of sight, and drowsiness. The pupils were much dilated; pulse 60, and full. An incision was made down to the bone, and the divided arteries were allowed to bleed