Sujipression of Urine, <Lc. 266 during the first twenty-four hours after all these operations; it may be gradually removed by the patient's taking mild diluent drinks. The constitutional irritation is frequently great, the pulse rising in forty-eight hours from 85 to 120; if this continue until the third day, when the fear of morti- fication will have passed away, it should be moderated by the abstraction of a small quantity of blood. In some cases of this kind I have had occasion to bleed twice, and with the happiest effect, the pulse having fallen in consequence to its natural standard. The medicines given at the same time were saline draughts every six hours, with from four to six drops of Battley's solution of opium. The ligatures came away on and about the fifteenth day. In many cases they remain a much longer time without inconvenience. 226. The popliteal artery is never to be secured by liga- ture, unless wounded and bleeding. Under ordinary circum- stances, an incision should be made at least three inches long in the course of the wound, the patient being laid on his face, and the limb extended. If the injury to the artery has been committed where it lies in the ham between the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle, the bleeding and the pulsation will point out its situation. The integuments and fascia having been divided, the posterior saphena vein and nerve, if seen, are to be avoided and drawn aside, when, by carefully sepa- rating some dense cellular or areolar membrane, and drawing the heads of the gastrocnemius from each other, the bleeding artery will be seen, as well as the vein and nerve. The nerve should be hooked inwards, and the vein carefully drawn out- wards. 227. The posterior tibial, or the peroneal artery, or both, if wounded at the same time, are to be tied according to the principles laid down in Aphorism 197, page 230. An incision, from six to seven inches long, should be made nearer to the inner edge of the leg than to the centre, and should be carried through the gastrocnemius muscle, the plantaris tendon, and soleus muscle, down to the fascia, under which the arteries lie with their accompanying veins, having the posterior tibial nerve to the fibular side of the artery. If the incision has been made in the upper part of