re Mode of Operating. stance, and then made two lateral flaps; but this operation, dependent on the fear of haemorrhage, was never performed in the British army. 80. My first successful operation, performed in 1815, was done from without inwards, the flaps being anterior and pos- terior, the artery being compressed against the pubis. The patient is to be laid on a low table, or other convenient thing, in a horizontal position; an assistant standing behind and leaning over, compresses the external iliac artery, be- coming femoral as it passes over the edge of the pubis. The surgeon, standing on the inside, commences his first incision some three or four inches directly below the anterior spinous process of the ilium, carries it across the thigh through the integuments, inwards and backwards, in an oblique direction, at an equal distance from the tuberosity of the ischium to nearly opposite the spot where the incision commenced; the end of this incision is then to be carried upwards with a gentle curve behind the trochanter, until it meets with the com- mencement of the first; the second incision being about or rather less than one-third the length of the first. The integu- ments, including the fascia, being retracted, the three gluteal muscles are to be cut through to the bone. The knife being then placed close to the retracted integuments, cuts steadily through everything on the anterior part and inside of the thigh. The femoral or other large artery may then be drawn out by a tenaculum or spring-forceps, and tied. The capsular ligament being well opened, and the ligamentum teres divided, the knife should be passed behind the head of the bone thus dislocated, and made to cut its way out, care being taken not to have too large a quantity of muscle on the under part, or the integuments will not cover the wound, under which circumstance a sufficient portion of muscular fibre must be cut away. The obturatrix, gluteal, and ischiatic arteries are not to be feared, being each readily compressed by a finger until they can be duly secured. The capsular ligament, and as much of the ligamentous edge of the aceta- bulum as can be readily cut off, should be removed. The nerves, if long, are to be cut short. The wound is then to be carefully cleansed, and brought together by three or more soft