463 Balls rolling on the Diaphragm. cular man, of full habit, was wounded by a musket-ball at the battle of Waterloo; it fractured the third and fourth ribs behind on the left side, and broke the left arm. He was brought to Brussels, where the inflammatory symptoms were subdued by repeated general and local bleedings, and the other ordinary but strictly antiphlogistic means, during the first six weeks, by which time the external wound had nearly closed, and no trace of the ball could be perceived. At the end of this time, Staff-surgeon Collier, now Inspector-General of Hospitals, under whose care he was, and who furnished me with these particulars of the case, which I saw in Brussels, finding that his symptoms became worse, that he had rigors and evening exacerbations, and that the difficulty of breathing had increased almost to suffocation, decided on opening into the cavity of the chest, following the course of the ball. This he did by a deep incision, which enabled him to remove some pieces of the ribs which were denuded but not detached. A bag-like protrusion was then felt between the ribs near their angles, which was opened, and nearly two pints of thick foetid pus escaped; the relief which followed being as com- plete as sudden. The wound was dressed from the bottom, and every means adopted, except introducing a tent, to pre- vent its closing, but in vain; the opening closed, and matter again collected, requiring a second incision for its removal. Between these two operations, small bleedings were resorted to most beneficially. A short gum-elastic catheter was intro- duced into the cavity of the chest after the second incision; but little matter however was secreted. From this time he gradually recovered, and was sent to England, cured, in November. 347. The presence of a ball, rolling about on the diaphragm, can now be ascertained by means of the stethoscope at an early period, so as to admit of an operation being undertaken with confidence for its removal; whilst the knowledge acquired by auscultation or percussion of the filling of the chest by fluid, whether serous, bloody, or purulent, is at the same time incon- testibly demonstrated. The presence of a ball, or of any other foreign body, decides the question as to the place where the opening into the chest should be made; on this point, the