334 Trephine at different periods- •wounded French prisoners in 1812, a portion of bone by the trephine, which had been fractured by a sword some months before: the wound had not healed, and some pieces of bone were depressed. One piece, in particular, of the inner table, was sticking in and irritating the dura mater, and was in all probability the immediate cause of the fits from which the patient had been suffering. He recovered. A British soldier received a wound at the affair of El Boden, in front of Ciudad Rodrigo, from a sword, on the top of the head; he accompanied me to Alfaiates, on the retreat of the army. The bone was apparently only cut through, yet the inner table was depressed, and felt rugged when examined with the probe. The symptoms of inflammation increasing on the fourth day, and not being relieved by copious bleeding, I removed a central portion of the cut bone by one large crown of the trephine, and took away several small pieces which were sticking into the dura mater, after which all the symp- toms gradually subsided. 266. The whole of the French wounded, who remained on the ground or were taken prisoners after the battle of Sala- manca, were under my care, and among them there were several severely wounded by sword-cuts received in the charges of heavy cavalry made by Generals lie Merchant and Bock. The cerebellum was laid bare in two cases without any immediate bad effect. In one particular case, which re- covered, (after the battle of Waterloo,) the brain was seen pulsating for several weeks; and the statements made to me by the different officers at Brussels and Antwerp, and afterwards at Yarmouth and Colchester, entirely confirmed the observations I had made, and the recommendations I have inculcated on this particular point as resulting from the prac- tice of the Peninsular war. 267. It would appear that too much stress is laid upon a differ- ence which is supposed to exist in the danger of trephining a man on the first or on the seventh day after an accident; and that an error may be committed in believing that the trephine is a more dangerous instrument on the first day than on the seventh. The question is not whether the man is to be trephined or not; but which will be the best and safest day