Wounds of the Bladder very dangerous; 572 at night, sixty drops of laudanum. At ten, being very rest- less, twenty drops more, which procured some sleep although he vomited frequently; belly relieved by the fomentation; three stools mixed with blood. Sept. 6th.—All the symptoms relieved; passes blood with his urine; sickness and vomiting troublesome; pulse 90, rather firm than feeble.—One o'clock : Complains of violent pain in the left leg and thigh, belly, and loins; pulse 116, full and strong. Bloodletting to sixteen ounces. Barley water with nitre for common drink.—Six p.m. : Pulse 96 ; bowels open, with discharge of blood; symptoms generally relieved. Tincture of opium, twelve drops at night. 8th.—Slept better; less pain; paralysis continues. In the evening symptoms aggravated; lost twelve ounces of blood; enema, &c. repeated; pulse 120. 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th.— Pulse 96; bowels open; urine bloody; is generally better. 15th.—Wound of exit healed; urine bloody; bowels open. Chicken broth for the first time. 20th.—The opening of entrance having nearly closed was enlarged, and a free exit allowed for the matter. Oct. 20th.—Wounds quite closed; is free from pain, is able to move about the house on crutches; warm stimulating applications to the limbs seem to have given most relief. Nov. 20th.—Paralytic affection gone; he can now mount his horse, and has only a feeling of numbness and torpor in the left leg and thigh. 415. The general opinion which formerly prevailed, that wounds of the bladder by musket-balls, were for the most part mortal, is now known to be erroneous. When the bladder is wounded below, or where it is not covered by the peritoneum, persons recover by what may be considered the almost un- aided efforts of nature. A large number of cases came under my observation, at Brussels and at Antwerp, and many had already died. Persons rarely recover in whom urine has found its way into the general cavity of the abdomen. They generally die of inflammation, in from three to six days. When the bladder is wounded where it is covered by the peritoneum, and the opening or openings do not by some