Case of Lieutenant-Colonel Dumaresq. 456 the chest is altogether contracted and flatter; the heart has been moved behind the sternum; the beat of the apex being on the other side of the xiphoid cartilage, and that of the heart, as a whole, is more indistinct than usual. Is otherwise in good health. It is possible that the ball may be lodged in or be retained by layers of coagulable lymph in the angle formed between the diaphragm, the ribs, and the spine. William Downes, of the 11th Regiment of Infantry, aged thirty-three, was wounded by a musket-ball, on the 31st August, 1813, in the Pyrenees; it fractured the fourth rib of the leftside, passed through the chest, and came out behind through the scapula. He spat a good deal of blood, although little flowed from the wound. The next day he was bled largely twice, to relieve the bleeding from the lung, and was sent to Passages, where he was bled daily; and thence, a ship being ready, to Santander, where he arrived on the 14th of Sep- tember. A free bloody purulent discharge took place from the anterior wound, but little from the posterior, and he ex- pectorated a bloody purulent matter, and occasionally a little blood. Towards the end of September the sanguineous ex- pectoration ceased; but the soft parts of the chest had sloughed and separated under an attack of hospital gangrene, from which he had a narrow escape during the month of October. The wound in the chest gradually closed during the month of November; and on the 14th of December he was discharged convalescent, his health tolerably good, but his breathing by no means free; no expectoration. The left arm was impaired in power, in consequence of the mischief done to the muscles of the fore-part of the chest and shoulder by the hospital gangrene. The chest was altogether somewhat flattened and shrunk, but there did not seem to be any diseased action going on within. Case of Lieutenant-Colonel Dumaresq, aide-de-camp to Lord Strafford,by himself—Whilst turning round, after a successful charge of infantry, at Hougomont, on the 18th of June, 1815,1 was wounded by a musket-ball, which passed through the right scapula, penetrated the chest, and lodged in the middle of the rib in the axilla, which was supposed to be broken. When desired to cough by the medical officer who first saw