Treatment of Effusion of Blood 534 closed. I havo seen the epigastric artery tied several times with success. A Portuguese cacador on picquet was wounded at the second siege of Badajos, in a sally made by some French cavalry. He had three or four trifling cuts on the head and shoulders, and one across the lower part of the belly, on the right side. He bled profusely, and when brought to me had lost a considerable quantity of blood, which came through a small wound made by the point of a sabre. This wound I enlarged until the wounded but undivided artery became visible; upon this two ligatures were placed, and the external wound was sewed up. The peritoneum was opened to a small extent, but the bowel did not protrude, and the patient (not being an Englishman, and not, therefore, so liable to inflam- mation) recovered after being sent to Elvas. A soldier of the same regiment, cut down at the same time, died as soon as he was brought into camp, having been severely wounded in'the chest and the abdomen. He was said to have died from haemorrhage, from a wound in the belly, two inches in length, made by one of the long-pointed swords of the French dragoons. I had the curiosity to enlarge the wound, and found one of the small intestines had been cut half across, another part injured, and that the blood came from an artery which had been opened by the point of the 6word in going through the mesentery, which wound had caused his death. 395. When this operation cannot be done successfully, or with advantage to the patient, whose life is in jeopardy from the continued drain, the wound should be closed by suture, and a compress laid over it, and retained by a bandage methodi- cally applied for the purpose of aiding the muscular parietes in keeping up that pressure on the viscera, which may be useful in arresting the flow of blood from the wounded part. If the bleeding continue, or, haviug been arrested, should recur, and the belly become in consequence distended, the sutures being evidently so tense as to be likely to cut their way out, or if the blood should ooze out between the stitches, they may be in part removed, in order to give immediate relief. When the belly becomes very painful, tense, and manifestly full,