291 Concussion of the Brain. state of our knowledge; although all writers seem to coincide in opinion that a sudden stoppage of the circulation of the blood is the more immediate cause of death. That the posi- tive shock communicated to the brain from one side to the other, and the repercussion which follows from its resiliency, are capable of giving rise to a direct and visible injury, is in- disputable. It usually falls on what may be termed the edges of the hemispheres, which appear to be discoloured, bruised, and sometimes torn, so as to have caused the term laceration to be given to this kind of injury. This mischief, however, is most commonly found in the examination of those persons who have survived the accident for some days, and is there- fore only a predisposing cause of death. 246. When an injury is not immediately fatal, and life, although for a time in imminent danger, is not destroyed, yet fluctuates on the verge of destruction, gradually to be restored, again to fail, and at the end of several days to be eventually extinguished, the changes which take place in the functions of the brain during this period are accompanied by alterations which are observable in its appearance. The assemblage of phenomena which have taken place constitute inflammation; and it is only by that vigorous treatment which subdues inflam- matory action, that a person in whom they have occurred can be preserved. The immaterial part of man is so intimately connected with his material part, that they cannot be sud- denly separated without the material part receiving an irre- coverable, though often an imperceptible detriment; the bonds which unite them cannot be temporarily loosened without a derangement taking place, which appears to require for its reco- very the aid of some of those processes of nature which are known to occur in the restoration to health of other parts of the body. A moderate shock is often immediately followed by sick- ness, faintness, weakness, and in a few hours by a slight head- ache, from which the person quickly recovers without further inconvenience; or the headache may remain for several days the sole symptom or sign of an injury having been sustained; the slightest possible approach to that action which we call in- flammation having sufficed to effect a cure. One step fur- ther, the headache continues, the stomach sympathises, there