Wounds of the Knee-joint. 90 them or between them, and fall into the knee-joint, or it may make a prominence on the side of the patella, without passing out, or immediately interrupting the motion of the leg, for the soldier may walk some distance afterwards. The popliteal artery may also be divided in addition, and either of these cases will render amputation necessary; for the ball must be taken out on the fore part, and the general inflammation of the joint will either destroy the patient in a short time, or, after much distress and hazard, leave him no alternative but amputation. If a ball lodge in the condyles of the femur, within the capsular ligament, and cannot be easily extracted, amputation is advisable; for the limb, if preserved, will not be a useful one. If the ball, on the other hand, lodge without the capsular ligament, and cannot readily be extracted, the •wound should be healed as soon as possible; and although it may cause some little inconvenience to the knee-joint, the limb and life of the patient may be saved, as I have seen in many instances, when a continuance of persevering efforts to extract it would have exposed both to great danger. Many cases of wounds of the knee-joint, in which the capsular ligament is wounded, and the articulation opened into without injury to the bones, do well, such as simple incised wounds made with a clean cutting instrument. The success attend- ing all wounds of the knee-joint depends entirely upon the antiphlogistic mode of treatment being rigidly enforced, and to a very great extent. The limb is to be placed in the straight position, a splint is to be put underneath it, in order to prevent any motion, and cold or iced water is to be applied, especially in summer, to diminish the increasing heat. General bleeding may be had recourse to in suffi- cient quantity to keep all general inflammatory action in due bounds; but it is on local blood-letting that the surgeon must principally rely for the prevention of inflammation. Cupping can sometimes be performed with marked effect; but leeches are more serviceable when they can be procured in sufficient numbers; from twenty to forty, or more, may be applied at a time; and whenever the sensation of heat is felt, and is accompanied by pain, they should be repeated until these symptoms subside. The necessity for the local abstraction of blood is so great, that it should never be lost sight of for a