488 M. Larrey on Opening the Pericardium, rhage will continue internally, and that the patient may die after much suffering, principally from oppression, caused by the escape of blood into the cavity of the chest. If the wound be a stab, the external opening may be accu- rately closed, and the escape of blood prevented; but as the pressure of the blood in the pericardium is unequal to restrain the action of the heart, blood forced out through the opening fills the cavity of the pleura, and causes suffocation, unless from some accidental circumstance, the opening in the heart becomes obstructed, and the bleeding ceases. If all the circumstances be considered, there can be no doubt of the propriety of closing the wound in the first instance, if the flow of blood be excessive and appear likely to endanger life. It seems to be as little doubtful that the wound should be re-opened after a time, if the danger from suffocation be imminent. The relief obtained by the escape of a little blood may be efficacious, whilst it does not necessarily follow, although it is more than probable it will be so, that its place will be occupied by a further extravasation of blood, which will prove fatal. It is a choice of difficulties, and death from haemorrhage is easier than death from suffoca- tion. In the case of the Due de Berri, whose right ventricle was wounded, and who died from loss of blood, Steifensand reprehends Dupuytren for having opened the external wound every two hours, to prevent suffocation; but if death were actually impending from the filling of the cavity of the chest being about to cause suffocation, there was nothing to be done but to give relief at all hazards. 359. "When the sufferer has recovered from the imminent danger attendant on the infliction of the injury, and the peri- cardium is believed to be so full of blood or of serum as to prevent in a great measure the movements of the heart, it has been proposed by Baron Larrey to open the pericardium by the following operation—equally, as he thinks, applicable in an ordinary case of hydrops pericardii:— " An oblique incision is to be made from over the edge of the ensiform cartilage, to the united extremities of the carti- lages of the seventh and eighth ribs. The cellular tissue being