Injuries of Nerves. 48 came away for a year. A second cut on the right side did not penetrate the bone. After a temporary paralysis of the right side, he recovered with a loss of power and a disordered sen- sation in the second, third, and little fingers of the right hand, aggravated by cold weather and by mental anxiety. Seven years afterwards he fell from his horse and suffered from concussion of the brain, which added to his former sen- sations, by rendering the left half of his whole person incapable of resisting cold, or of evolving heat. In a still atmosphere abroad,at 68° Fahr., he said, the left side requires four coatings of stout flannel, which are augmented as the thermometer descends every two degrees and a half, to prevent a painful sense of cold; so that when it stands at the freezing point the quantity of clothing on the affected side becomes extremely burdensome. When exposed to a breeze, or even in moving against the air, one or even two oilskin coverings are necessary in addition, to prevent a sensation of piercing cold driving through the whole frame. Moderate horse exercise and generous diet improved the general health; the warm-bath caused a distressed effect; the shower-bath, cold or tepid, increased the paralytic affection. Frictions with remedies of all kinds increased it also, and so did sponging with vinegar-and-water, as well as any violent stimu- lating quick excitement, or earnest attention to any particular subject. The admiral died unrelieved, twenty-six years after the receipt of the injury, of disease of the bladder. 37. Brigade-Major Bissett was wounded, on horseback, in the Kaffir war, by a musket-ball, which entered on the outside of the lower part of the left thigh, passed upwards across the perinasum, wounding the rectum within the anus— from which part he lost a quantity of blood—and came out through the pelvis on the opposite side. The course of this ball was accounted for by the fact that he saw the Kaffir who shot him standing some yards below him when he fired. The ball, in its passage upwards and across the thigh, injured the great sciatic nerve, and the consequence is con- tinued pain in the toes, instep, and foot, with contraction of the muscles, and lameness, together with the usual incapability of bearing heat or cold, particularly the latter, against which