Removal of the Os Calcis. 100 posterior tibial artery; this will allow the foot to be dislocated outwards, and the lower end of the tibia to be brought well out through the wound. An assistant keeping the foot and tendons out of the way, the lower end of the tibia is to be removed by a fine saw to the same extent as the fibula, or as high as the injury or disease requires. The articulating sur- face, or injured part of the astragalus, is then to be removed, after which, the foot is to be returned to its proper position, and the cut surfaces of the tibia and astragalus brought into and kept in close approximation by suture, strapping, and bandage. The limb is to be placed on an outside leg-splint, having a foot-piece to it; and in order to prevent any matter oozing, an opening should be maintained on the outside of the joint, with a corresponding hole in the dressing and splint, for this purpose, until the recovery is completed. The shot-hole will sometimes answer the purpose when the injury is inflicted by a musket-ball. There are no vessels to tie unless wounded accidentally. Removal op the Os Calcis. 93. If this bone should be much shattered, and the injury nearly confined to it alone, it may be removed in the follow- ing manner. Make a semilunar incision down to the bone from the posterior angle of the inner malleolus, across the sole of the foot to the external malleolus, the convexity of the flap being forwards. This flap being turned back, the tendo Achillis is brought into view, and is to be separated from its attachment, or cut across above it. The point of junction be- tween the calcis and astragalus having been ascertained, the ligamentous fibres are to be cut through, and the joint between them opened, when the knife is to be carried from behind for- wards, in order to divide the inter-osseous ligament between them. Some ligamentous fibres passing between the calcis and cuboid bones are then to be cut through, when the os calcis may be dissected out without difficulty. The posterior tibial artery and nerve will be divided. This bone was first removed for disease of its substance by Mr. Hancock, and the operation has been done several times since by Mr. Greenhow and others, with success. 94. When the bones of the leg are not injured, although those of the tarsus are so far destroyed as to render amputa-