390 Purulent Effusion. root, if no adventitious attachments have retained it in a different position; and the pleura has become a thick, yellow- ish-white, irregular, honey-combed sort of covering for it, as well as completely lining the chest. The serous as well as the purulent effusion are both free from any unpleasant odour, unless a kind of gangrene has taken place, when the latter becomes very offensive, and of a greenish-black colour, as well as the substance of the false membranes extending to, and sometimes beneath the pleura covering the condensed lung, into which openings have even thus been made. In some cases the surface of the pleura is covered with small tubercles, some as large as a filbert; in others it appears to have a reticular or honey-combed appearance; and in par- ticular cases, large irregularities, or excavations, may be ob- served in it when much thickened, being evidently spots of ulceration, which, if they had proceeded, would have ended by allowing passage to the matter outward, until it formed an external abscess, implicating in all probability, one or more of the ribs; thus giving rise to an exfoliation, which by being separated internally, might in time be the cause of further mischief, if not previously covered by a thin layer of false membrane. When chronic pleurisy succeeds to a more acute attack, or they alternate with each other, particularly after penetrating wounds of the chest, several layers seem to be laid down one upon the other. This deposit is never so thick upon the pleura pulmonalis; nevertheless it is thick enough in most instances to prevent the lung from again dilating, the substance of it being generally quite permeable to, although so compressed as to be deprived of air. It is then flattened, drawn upwards towards its root against the mediastinum and spinal column, unless, by some previous adhesion, such course has been prevented, and it adheres, as it has been often known to do, to the side of the chest. As that adhesion may occur in more than one spot, so may the effusions or deposits take place between them, constituting circumscribed sacs, and rendering the case more complicated. 304. The changes which take place in the structure of the lung in pneumonia are three in number:-—I. Engorgement; II. Hepatization; III. Purulent infiltration. The formation