403 Symptoms of Empyema. temporary abatement, are followed by those of effusion, which are not in turn removed, the occurrence of empyema may be suspected. Empyema may form from a pulmonic abscess bursting, or a gangrenous spot being detached and falling into the cavity of the pleura. An abscess in the liver, or other parts, may also communicate with the pleura, and abscesses, formed from injury, or otherwise, in the wall of the chest, may also give rise to it. It is usually, however, caused by acute inflammation, by penetrating injuries, or by the introduction of foreign substances. It should, however, be borne in mind that when it occurs from wounds, the external opening must have healed, or the complaint would be simply a wound in the chest, with a discharge from the cavity of the side affected. A true surgical case of empyema, following an injury of the chest, in which the wound has healed, is not to be ascertained but by the same means, as in a case arising entirely from internal causes, unless the protrusion of the cicatrix should indicate the presence of matter behind it. 314. The symptoms by which the termination of inflamma- tion in effusion may be known, are dyspnoea or difficulty of breathing, which is greatest when the effusion has taken place rapidly, less when it has been gradual; inability to lie on the unaffected, or sound side, which subsides or is entirely removed, after the operation has been performed and the fluid evacuated, although it should be replaced by air in con- sequence of the lung being unable to resume its natural position. When the effused fluid has filled one side of the chest, that side is evidently enlarged, and this can be dis- tinctly seen when the dilatation does not exceed half an inch, measuring by a tape from the spinous process of a vertebra' behind to the centre of the sternum. The ribs are nearly if not quite immovable, and partially raised, offering a strong contrast to the active motion of the ribs of the other side. The intercostal spaces iu these persons may be more or less filled up, rendering the whole surface smooth and soft. In some very severe cases the external parts become cadematous, so that the ribs cannot be felt, and this sign, although not always present, is certainly pathognomonic, when it takes