220 Errors demonstrated. tissue in the neighbourhood of the artery were sloughy. There was some enlargement of the right limb, but apparently no mortification. The femoral artery was pervious; the course of the wound was through a bed of fat, fourteen inches in length, and three inches in depth, over the pubes, and no muscular substance was injured; the blood found in the aneurismal sac was firmly coagulated, and there was no mark of recent oozing from the injured artery. If this gentleman had been wounded at the foot of the breach in the wall of Ciudad Rodrigo, in January, he might, to his great dissatisfaction, have been one of eleven officers whom I saw lying dead, and as naked as they were born, on the face of the breach of Badajos,in April. He would have been saved by one doctor, or an old woman, and a little cold water in 1812, and did die of seven in 1845, after an operation most bril- liantly performed, but done in the wrong place, even if any operation had been necessary, which it was not. The case is an experimentum crucis of principles. The first error committed in this case, was in calling and believing a wounded artery to be a circumscribed, false, or diffused traumatic aneurism. Nothing can be called an aneu- rism, by which word a dilated vessel, or a diseased, shut or closed sac, is understood, which has one or more holes in it, made by a ball, or by anything else, the wound or track of which remains open. It is simply a case of wound in which the artery has been divided or injured, and whilst this track of the ball remains open, no ingenuity of argument can make it otherwise. When the external openings made by the ball have closed, the case may then be called, if there be a collec- tion of blood, whether fluid or coagulated, one of circum- scribed, false, diffused traumatic aneurism, or anything else that philologists may please to designate it. The dissection report proved this case to be simply a small collection of bl00d—three ounces and a half, or seven small table-spoon- fuls—communicating with two open wounds. Calling this an aneurism, or a shut sac of any kind, was the first fundamental error, as fatal as erroneous. The second error consisted in the belief, contrary to all ex- perience, that any sac or bag, or collection of blood by what-