Paralysis of the same side. 312 counted for as to the face, that an extravasation of blood into one hemisphere of the cerebrum/or even of the cerebellum, can cause paralysis of the complete half of the body on the opposite side. It has been demonstrated, that the right side of the body and the left side of the face may be paralytic at the same time and from the same injury apparently of the left side of the head-; the mischief which caused the paralysis of the right side being found in by far the greater number of instances on the left side of the brain, and that which gave rise to the paralysis of the left side of the face to have been caused by an injury in the course of the portio dura of the seventh pair of nerves when about to leave, or after it had left the brain. Burdach found in 268 cases of lesion of one side of the brain, that 10 presented paralysis on both sides of the body, and 250 of one side; in 15 of these the paralysis was on the same side as the injury. Convulsions took place in 25 cases on the same side as the disease ; in three on the opposite side. In cases of lesion of one corpus striatum, there were, in 36 in- stances, paralysis of the opposite side, and six with convulsions of the same side, and in no instance convulsions of the opposite side. In 28 cases of cerebral lesion of one side the muscles of the opposite side of the face were paralysed, in 10 those of the same side. Paralysis of the eyelid was in six cases on the same side, in five on the opposite side. Paralysis of the muscles of the eyeball occurred in eight cases on the same side, in four on the opposite. Paralysis of the iris in five cases on the same side, and in five on the opposite; the tongue being generally drawn towards the paralysed side of the face. A man fell down stairs and received an injury on the head from the fall, which rendered him nearly insensible at the moment. There were no signs or appearances on the outside of the head indicative of any serious mischief, nor were any found on examination after death. The pulse was quick, and rose to 140; the left side was paralytic; the breathing not stertorous, but accompanied by a little puff on the right side of the mouth: the pupils somewhat dilated; he could not speak, convulsions supervened, and he died the day afterwards. On dissection, the peculiar flatness of the convolutions of the