258 Ligature of the A orta, and of the Internal Iliac A rtery. placed the point of his fore-finger on the vessel at the part where he intends to pass his ligature, he scratches with the nail upon and on each side of it, so as to separate it from its cellular attachments, and from the vein which accompanies, hut lies behind it. Thus far the operator proceeds by feeling; but it is now necessary that the sides of the wound should be separated, and kept apart by blunt spatulte curved at the ends, so as to take up as little space as possible, and not injure the peritoneum. The surgeon should if possible 6ee the artery, and the ligature carried on the eye of a bent probe, or a con- venient aneurismal needle, should be passed under it from within outwards, when it should be taken hold of with the forceps; the probe or needle should then be withdrawn, and the ligature firmly tied twice, or with a double knot. Great care must be taken to avoid everything but the artery. The peritoneum which covers it, and the ureter which crosses it, must be particularly kept in mind. The situation of the ex- ternal iliac artery and vein, which have been crossed to reach it, must be always recollected, and if there be sufficient space, they should be kept out of the way, and guarded by the finger of an assistant. 221. The external iliac artery has been so often and so success- fully tied, that a description of the two methods of proceeding commonly adopted will suffice, with a few additional remarks. The first, recommended by Mr. Abernethy, is in accordance with the operations on the common, and on the internal iliac. The patient being laid on his back, with the shoulders slightly raised, and the legs bent on the trunk, an incision is to be made about three inches and a half in length in the direction of the artery, terminating over or a little above Poupart's ligament. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle will be exposed, and an opening being made into it, a director is to be introduced, and it is to be slit up to the extent of the external incision. The internal oblique and transversalis muscles are then to be " nicked," so as to allow a director or the point of the finger to be introduced below them, when they also are to be divided, the finger separating them from the fascia transversalis and the peritoneum. The fascia transver- salis running from Poupart's ligament to the peritoneum is