Nature of Cells and Cyto-hlastema. 179 cell itself. From the surface of this kernel a small, very thin transparent vesicle is raised, appearing as a segment of a sphere, which soon expands, and becomes so large when full grown, that the kernel lies as a minute corpuscle upon its interior wall; the material for its formation being supplied by the cyto-blastema, and is converted into a vesicle by the kernel which is first formed, its embryo existing in the forma- tive substance. The first trace of organization is the production of a small perceptible body or nucleolus, which deposits on the surface a granular substance from the cyto-blastema, to give rise to a little producing organ, the kernel or nucleus. This further transforms the surrounding cyto-blastema into a granular sur- face, from which the vesicle is formed, raised, expanded, and filled with a liquid, in which vesicle thus enlarged the kernel remains enclosed, and adhering to a certain spot of its wall. If two nucleoli lie close to one another, they coalesce and become one solid mass, capable of producing one cell only, containing one kernel and two nucleoli. This view is that of Schleiden and Schwann,supported by Mulder, but not entirely approved by Henle; inasmuch as no kernel can be perceived in the cells of many cellular systems, whilst in the act of formation. In the elementary parts of animals which have long since lost their cellular form, the remnants of kernels are frequently found, as have been demonstrated in the preceding diagrams. The manner, however, in which the elementary first- seen granules are formed in the cyto-blastema, science has not yet been able to discover. The chemists have proved that all elementary organic substances consist of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, susceptible of endless modifications of their respective forces, under which an organic molecule or ovum is produced, and after that, under certain circumstances, an animal such as man. 177. When the current of blood through the main trunk of the arteries of an extremity is cut off, the circulation is carried on by the collateral branches. This collateral circulation is more perfect, more active in young persons during the increase or growth of the body, than it is either at maturity or in the decline of life. The important point is not, however, alone