198 Peculiar illustrative Cases. coagula. The artery, on being carefully opened to the closed end, appeared to have been injured above the part divided by the ball, and communicated with the sac by a small fissure or rupture. The end of the artery was then slit up, so as to show the very little thickness of the closing substance, and the great original contraction of the diameter of the vessel. There was no internal coagulum, neither was there any laid over the external part of the artery; between it and the bone there was a coagulum lying of the size of a small phial cork. The other end of the artery could not be found, from the gangrenous state of the parts. Private P. Turnbull, of the grenadiers of the 74th Regiment, of good stature, was wounded on the 10th April, 1814, at Toulouse, by a musket-ball passing from the inside to the outside of the middle of the thigh; he says it bled consider- ably at first, but soon ceased; the wound was not painful, and he thinks he observed the leg and foot to be colder than the rest of his body for the first two or three days, but did not much attend to it, further than conceiving the numbness, coldness, and impeded power of motion as natural to the wound. . c .,. On the 18th of April, the gentleman in charge of tins patient pointed him out to me as an extraordinary case of Lngrene coming on without any, as he supposed sufficient cause The wound on the outside of the thigh, or the exit of the ball, was nearly healed, and that on the inside was without inflammation or tumefaction, and with merely a little hardness to be felt on pressure. The pulsation of the artery could be distinctly felt to the edge of the wound, but not below it; the leg was warm, the gangrene confined to the toes The artery of the other thigh could be distinctly traced down to the tendon of the triceps. As he was at a small hospital, about two miles from town, on the field of battle I did not see him until the 20th, and again on the 23rd, when, although the gangrenous portion included all the toes it had the apperone. of having ceased. Satisfied that it would again extend, I left directions with the assistant-surgeon that the limb should be ammitated below the knee. The surgeon, whom I had not seen, and who did not under-