Illustrative Cases. 575 wise much disturbed. There was at first a difficulty in passing urine, but this gradually subsided, although he always suffered pain in micturition, which was frequent and distressing. He remained in this state until December, when he passed with considerable effort, and after mucb difficulty, a hard piece of his jacket about half an inch in length, and larger than the orifice of the urethra through which it was forced. As it was not encased by calcareous matter, it could not have been long in the bladder, but must have been lodged near it before it ulcerated its way in, giving rise to the constant desire and irritation which he had so long experienced. His symptoms then subsided, although they had not entirely disappeared when he left for England. A French soldier was wounded by a musket-ball on the back part of the right hip, at Almaraz, on the Tagus, was taken prisoner, and sent to Lisbon in the autumn of 1813 The ball had lodged, but gave him little inconvenience at the time, beyond some pain in the course of the sciatic nerve subsequently followed by defect of motion on the right side' Four months after the injury, pain came on about the region of the bladder, with great desire to pass urine, which he could not do when standing, but which dribbled away when lying down. When quiet he suffered little, but great pain followed any attempt at continued motion. A catheter could be introduced, but with great difficulty when it reached the prostate gland, which was exceedingly tender to the touch After a time the instrument could not be passed, and the man was in great agony, until something appeared to give wav and a discharge of matter took place, when the urine followed and he was relieved. An abscess had formed in all probability' from the proximity of the ball, which still could not be felt The man recovered, retaining, however, his former state of lameness and defect of power, although relieved from the vexatious irritation of the bladder. A soldier, of the fourth division of Infantry, was wounded at the battle of Toulouse, whilst entering a'redoubt, by a musket-ball, which entered at the left groin, and crossing thl pelvis came out on the upper part of the opposite hip behind The urine flowed from both wounds and from the rectum in