424 Signs of Emphysema air has found its way into the interlobular structure of the lung. A third and very rare kind has been added, in which air, being extravasated under the pleura, has raised it in the form of a pouch. The morbid appearances these diseases afford, and the symptoms they give rise to, do not fall within the range of surgical skill, and are not frequently within the controlling power of medical science and ability. Emphysema is free from redness, and is distinguished from oedema, or the swelling containing a serous fluid which is also colourless, by its not pitting on pressure or retaining the mark of the finger. It is, on the contrary, elastic; and the displace- ment of the air, on pressing on the part, gives rise to a pecu- liar noise, resembling the crackling of a dry bladder partly filled with air on its being compressed, usually called crepita- tion. This swelling extends as the air introduced increases in quantity, until the whole of the areolar tissue of the body may be fully distended. Emphysema most commonly occurs from fractured ribs, a point from one or more of which abrades the surface of the lung. Through the opening thus made, the air escapes into the sac of the pleura, and thence by the side of the broken part of the ribs into the cellular membrane. The distress in breathing arises from the air being diffused over the surface of the lung, which it gradually causes to collapse under the pressure exercised by the act of expiration; whilst, at the same time, the mediastinum yielding, the opposite lung suffers in a similar way, although to a less extent, until the aerifica- tion of the blood is so greatly obstructed as at last to interfere with life; unless relief be obtained by the equalisation of the pressure made on the lung by the compressed air in the cavity of the pleura, with that exercised on the inside of the lung through the glottis. In ordinary, but not severe cases of fractured ribs, a slight degree of emphysema is frequently observed over the injured part, implying that the lung has been injured; such a case requires the application of a compress, wetted with a little spirit and cold water, retained by a bandage. The great art in the treatment of broken ribs by compress and bandage, consists in their proper application, which can only be