212 DOMESTIC COOKERY. and put them to the pulp; and to every pound, a pound and a half of double-refined sugar beaten fine; boil them together twenty minutes, but be careful not to break the slices. If not quite clear, simmer five or six minutes longer. It must be stirred all the time very gently. When cold, put it into glasses. To butter Oranges hot. Grate off a little of the outside rind of four Seville oranges, and cut a round hole at the blunt end opposite the stalk, large enough to take out the pulp and seeds and juice; then pick the seeds and skin from the pulp; rub the oranges with a little salt, and lay them inw'ater for a short time. You are to save the bits cut out. Set the fruit on to boil in fresh water till they are tender, shifting the water to take out the bitterness. In the mean time, make a thin syrup w'ith fine sugar, and put the oranges into it, and boil them up; turning them round, that each part may partake of the syrup, as there need not be enough to cover them, and k tthem remain in it hot till they are to be served. About half an hour betore you want them put some sugar to the pulp, and set over the fire; mix it well, and let it boil; then add a spoontul of white w'ine I’or every orange, give it a boil, and then put in a bit of fresh butter, and stir over the fire to thicken; fill the oraimes with it, and serve them with some of the s^rrup in the dish. Put the bits on the top. To fill preserved Ornn<j;es; a corner Dish. For five take a pound of jNaples biscuits, some blanched almonds, the yolks of four eggs beaten, sugar to your taste, four ounces of butter w armed : grate the biscuits, and mix with the above and some orange-flowTr-w aier. Fill preserved oranges, and bake in a very slow oven. If you like them frosted, sift sugar over them as soon as lilleil ; otherwise wdpe them. Custard to fill will do as well ; if so, you need not hake the oranges, but put it in wdien become cold. Whole Oranges carx'cd. Cut on the rinds any shapes you please with a pen- knife; cut a bit off near and round the stalk, and vvitit an