052 * The mind of Mf. D’Israeli, naturally susceptible of vivid impres- sions, seems to have caught a richness of fancy from his intimacy with oriental poetry. The pompous imagery of the eastern poet is given in an English form, so judiciously, that it has little of that extravagance which would inevitably deform a bald translation. The romances are interspersed with poetry, which, like his prose, abounds with luxuriant imagery. A richness of language and oriental novelty of thought adorn the poems. The story of Leila and Mejnoun is the principal romance, and the more highly to be valued for its beauty and pathos. The suc- ceeding one is elegant and pleasing, and the third is very ingenious.”— Monthly Review. 15. ELEMENTS of the SCIENCE of BOTANY, as established by Linnmus, ornamented with one hundred and twenty-fom beautiful En- gravings to illustrate all the Classes and Orders of his, System; accom- panied with such amusing and illustrative Facts as may serve to make the Subject more interesting or impressive, and a complete Glossary of Terms. Handsorriely printed by Bfensley, in two volumes, foolscap 8vo, Second Edition. Price ll. 6s. In this work any allusion to the sexes of plants has been carefully omitted, the atithor being decidedly of the opinion of Sir William Jones—“ that the allegory of sexes and nuptials of plants, even if it were complete, ought to be discarded, as unbecoming the gravity of men, who, while they search for truth, have no business to indulge their ima- gination ; and while they profess to give descriptions have nothing to do with metaphors.” 16. The CURIOSITIES of LITERATURE, consisting of Anec- dotes, Characters, Sketches, and Observations, literary, critical, and historical. Fifth Edition. In two handsome and closely printed. Vo- lumes, 8vo. ll. Is. “ For literary loungers, few books offer a greater feast than Mr. UIsraeli Curiosities of Literature; a book secure of admission where- ever literary amusement is not excluded.”—British Critic. 17. MEMOIRS of MARMONTEL. Written by Himself: includ- ing Anecdotes of the principal Characters of the Eighteenth Century. , A new Ti-anslation with Notes and Illustrations. By the Author of the Swiss Emigrants. In 4 Vols. ]2mo. ll. Is. We are not sure that we have perused any book, that has afforded : US more entertainment than these little Volumes. The narrative is so