PRESERVES. 225 L 5 those subdivided. But I am not versed in the minutiae, and only make the observation to guard against under- boiling, which prevents sweetmeats from keeping; and quick boiling and long, whicti brings them to candy. Attention, without much practice, will enable a per- son to do any ot' the following sorts of sweetmeats, &c. and they are as much as is wanted in a private family: the higlier ariicles of preserved fruits may be bought at less expense than made. Jellies of fruit made with equal quantity of sugar, that is, a pound to a pint, require no very long boiling. A pan should be kept for the purpose of preserving; of double block tin, with a bow-handle opposite the straight one for safetj'’, will do very well; and if put by nicely cleaned, in a dry place, when done with, will last for several years. Those of copper or brass are impro- per, as the tinning wears out by the scraping of the sweetrneat-ladle. There is a new sort of iron, wnth a strong tinning, which promises to wear long. Sieves and spoons should be kept likewise for sweet things. Sweetmeats keep best in drawers that are not connect- ed with a wall. If there be the least damp, cover them only with paper dipp-d in brandy, laid quite close ; put- ting a little fresh over in spring, to prevent insect-monld. When any sweetmeats are directed to be dried in the sun or in a stove, it will be best in private families, where there is not a regular stove for the purpose, to put them in the sun on flag-stones, which reflect the heat, and place a garden glass over them to keep insects olF; or if put in an oven, to take care not to let it be too warm, and watch that they do properly and slowly. To keep Currants. The bottles being perfectly clean and dry, let the cur- rants be cut from the large stalks with the smallest bit of stalk to each, that the fruit not being wounded no moisture may be among them. It is necessary to gather them when the weather is quite dry; and if the- servant can be depended upon, it is best to cut them under the trees, and let them drop gently into the bottles.