DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 303 To preserve Gilding and clean it. It is not possible to prevent flies from staining the gilding without covering it; before which, blow otF the light dust, and pass a feather or clean brush over it: then ’with stripes of paper cover the frames of your glasses, 4 and don’t remove it till the flies are gone. Linen takes oft the gilding, and deadens its brightness; lit should therefore never be used for wiping it. Some means should be used to destroy the flies, as they injure furniture of every kind, and the paper likewise. Bottles hung about wdth sugar and vinegar, or beer, will ! attract them; or fly-water put into little shells placed ! about the room, but out of the reach of children. To clean Paint. Never use a cloth, but take off' the dust with a little long-haired brush, after blowing off the loose parts with the bellow^s. With care, paint will look well for a length of time. When soiled, dip a sponge or a bit of flannel into soda and water, wash it oft* quickly, and dry imme- diately, or the strength of the soda will eat ofFthe colour. When wainscot requires scouring, it should be done from the top downw ards and the soda be prevented from running on the unclean part as much as possible, or marks will be made w^hich will appear after the whole is finished. One person should dry with old linen as fast .as the other has scoured oft* the dirt and washed the soda off. To clean Paper Hangings. First blow oft* the dust with the bellows. Divide a white loaf of eight days old into eight parts. Take the I crust into your hand, and beginning at the top of the pa- per, wipe it downw'ards in the lightest manner with the crumb. Don’t cross nor go upwards. The dirt of the paper and the crumbs will fall together. Observe, you must not wipe above half a yard at a stroke, and after • doing all the upper part, go round again, beginning a little above where you left off. If you don’t do it ex- ' tremely lightly, you will make the dirt adhere to the paper* It will look like new if properly done.