Dairy. 263 gently towards the side of the tub, letting the whey pass through the fingers till it is cleared, and lading it off'as it collects. The other is, to get the whey from it by early breaking the curd ; the last method deprives it of many of its oily particles, and is therefore less proper. Put the vat on a ladder over the tub, and fill it with curd by the skimmer: press the curd close with your hand, and add more as it sinks; and it must be finally left two inches above the edge. Before the vat is filled, the cheese-cloth must be laid at the bottom; and when full, drawn smooth over on all sides. There are two modes of salting cheese ; one by mixing it in the curd while in the tub after the whev is out; and the other by putting it in the vat, and crumbling the curd all to pieces with it, after the first squeezing with the hands has dried it. The first method appears best on some accounts, but not on all, and therefore the custom of the cou)itry must direct. Put a board under and over the vat, and place it in the press : in two hours turn it out, and put a fresh cheese-cloth ; press it again for eight or nine hours; then salt it all over, and turn it again in the vat, and let it stand in the press fourteen or six- teen hours; observing to put the cheeses last made un- dermost. Before putting them the last time into the vat, pare the edges if they do not look smooth. The vat should have holes at the sides and at bottom to let all the w'hey pass through. Put on clean boards, and change and scald them. To preserve Cheese sound. Wash in w^arm W'hey, when you have any, and wu’pe it once a month, and keep it on a rack. If you want to ripen il, a damp cellar will bring it forward. When a whole cheese is cut, the larger quantity should be spread with butter inside, and the outside wiped, to preserve it. To keep those in daily use, moi.st, let a clean cloth be wrung out from cold water, and wrap round them when carried from table. Dry cheese may be used to advan- tage to grate for serving with macaroni or eating with- out. These observations are made with a view to make