domestic cookery. 196 skillet, and boil it again. It should look thick like treacle, but of a bright light gold-colour. It is a most elegant cover. Calf^s Feet Jelly. Boil two feet in two quarts and a pint of water till the feet are broken, and the water half wasted ; strain it, and when cold, take off the fat, and remove the jelly from the sediment; then put it into a saucepan, with sugar, raisin wine, lemon-juice to your taste, and some lemon- peel. When the flavour is rich, put to it the whites of five eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. Set the saucepan on the fire, but don’t stir the jelly after it be- gins to warm. Let it boil twenty minutes after it rises to a head ; then pour it through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot water to prevent waste, and sqeezing it quite dry. Run the jelly through and through until clear; then put it into glasses or forms. The following mode will greatly facilitate the clearing of jelly : When the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a tea-cupful of cold water; let it boil five mi- nutes longer; then take the sauce-pan off the fire covered close, and keep it half an hour; after which, it will be so clear as to need only once running through the bag, and much waste will be saved. Observe, feet for all jellies are boiled so long by the people who sell them, that they are less nutritious; they should be only scalded to take oft the hair. The liquor will require greater care ia removing the fat; but the jelly will be far stronger, and of course allow more water. Note: jelly is equally good made of cow-heels nicely cleaned ; and as they bear a less price than those of calves, and make a stronger jelly, this observation may be useful. Another way.—Boil four quarts of water with three ' calPs-feet, or two cow-heels, that have beenonly scalded, till half wasted ; take the jelly from the fat and sediment; mix with it the juice of a Seville orange and twelve le- mons, the peels of three ditto, the whites and siiells of twelve eggs, browm sugar to taste, near a pint of raisin