SWEETMEATS. 223 will have too much acid to keep. Yon reserve pan of it, and add a little sugar, to do those that are to dry ; for they will not require to be so sweet as if kept wet, and will eat very nicely if only boiled as much as those. Don’t break them. One parcel may be done after an- other, and save much sugar. Lemon Drops. Grate three large lemons, with a large piece of double- refined sugar; then scrape the sugar into a plate, add half a tea-spoonful of flour, mix well, and beat it into a light paste with the white of an egg. Drop it upon white paper, and put them into a moderate oven on a tin plate. Barbeny Drops. The black tops must be cut oft : then roast the fruit before the fire, till soft enough to pulp with ^a silver spoon through a sieve into a china basin ; then set the ' basin in a saucepan of w^ater, the top of which will just fit it, or on a hot hearth, and stir it till it grows thick. When cold, put to every pint a pound and a half of sugar, the finest double-refined, pounded and sifted through a lawn sieve, which must be covered with a fine linen, to prevent its wasting while sifting. Beat the sugar and juice together three hours and a half if a large quantity, but tw’o and a half for less; then drop it on sheets of white thick paper, the size of the drops sold intheshops. Some fruit is not so sour, and then less sugar is neces- sary. To know if there be enough, mix till well incor- porated, and tlien drop; if it run, there is not enough sugar, and if there is too much it w'ill be rough. A dry room will suffice to dry them. No metal must touch the juice but the point of a knife, just to take the drop oft'the end of the wooden spoon, and then as little as possible. Ginger Drops: u good Stomachic. Beat two ounces of fresh candied orange in a mortar, with a little sugar, to a paste; then mix one ounce of powder of white ginger with one pound of loaf-sugar. Wet tlie sugar wdth a little water, and boil all together to a candy, and drop it on paper the size of mint drops.