DOMESTIC COOKERY. 272 times a day, in common pans, giving them only as much as will quite fill them at once. When you put fresh, let the pans be set in water, that no sourness may be con- veyed to the fowls, as that prevents them from fattening. Give them clean water, or the milk of the rice, to drink; but the less wet the latter is when perfectly soaked, the better. By this method the flesh will have a clear whiteness which no other food gives; and when it is considered how far a pound of rice will go, and how much time is saved by this mode, it will be found to be as cheap as barley-meal, or more so. The pen should be daily cleaned, and no food given for sixteen hours before poultry be killed. To choose Eggs at Market, and 'preserve them. Put the large end of the egg to your tongue ; if it feels warm it is new. In new-laid eggs, there is a small divi- sion of the skin from the shell, which is filled with air, and is perceptible to the eye at the end. On looking through them against the sun or a candle, if fresh, eggs will be pretty clear. If they shake they are not fresh. Eggs may be bought cheapest when the hens first begin to lay in the spring, before they sit; in Lent and at Easter they become dear. They may be preserved fresh by dipping them in boiling w^ater and instantly taking them out, or by oiling the shell ; either of which ways is to prevent the air passing through it: or kept on shelves with small holes to receive one in each, and be turned every other day; or close-packed in a keg, and covered with strong lime-water. Feathers. In towns, poultry being usually sold ready-picked, the feathers, which may occasionally come in small quanti- ties, are neglected ; but orders should be given to put them into a tub free from damp, and as they dry to change them into paper bags, a few in each ; they should hang in a dry kitchen to season; fresh ones must not be added to those in part dried, or they will occa- sion a musty smell, but they should go through the same process. In a few months they will be fit to add to beds, or to make pillows, without the usual mode of