DOMESTIC COOKERY. 248 Strong Beer, or Ale. Twelve bushels of malt to the hogshead for beer (or fourteen if you wish it of a very good body), eight ibr ale; for either pour the whole quantity of water hot, but not boiling, on at once, and let it infuse three hours close covered; mash it in the first half hour, and let it stand the remainder of the time. Run it on the hops pre- viously infused in water; for strong beer three quarters of a pound to a bushel; if for ale, half a pound. Boil them with the wort two hours from the time it begins to boil. Cool a pailful to add two quarts of yeast to, which will prepare it for putting to the rest when ready next day ; but if possible put together the same night. Tun as usual. Cover the bung-hole with paper when the beer has done working; and when it is to be stopped, have ready a pound and a half of hops dried before the fire, put them into the bung-hole, and fasten it up. Let it stand twelve months in casks, and twelve in bottles, before it be drank. It will keep, and be very fine, eight or ten years. It should be brewed the be- ginning of March. Great care must be taken that the bottles are perfectly prepared, and that the corks are of the best sort. The ale will be ready in three or four months; and if the x^ent-peg be never removed, it will have spirit and strength to the very last. Allow two gallons of water at first for waste. After the beer or ale is run from the grains, pour a hogshead and a half for the twelve bushels, and a hogs- head of water if eight were brewed; mash, and let stand, and then boil, &c. Use some of the hops for this table- beer that were boiled for the strong. When thunder or hot weather causes beer to turn sour, a tea-spoonful, or more, if required, of salt of wormwood put into the jug w'ill rectify it. Let it be drawn, just before it is drunk, or it xvill taste flat. Excellent Table Beer. On three bushels of malt pour of hot water the third of the quantity you are to use, which is to be thirty-nine