249 HOME-BREWERY. M 5 gallons: cover it warm half an hour, then mash, and let it stand two hours and a half more, then set it to drain. When dry, add half the remaining water, mash, and let it stand half an hour, run that into another tub, and pour the rest of the water on the malt, stir it well, and cover it, letting it infuse a full hour. Eun that off, and mix all together. A pound and a half of hops should be infused in water, as in the former receipt, and be put into the tub for the first running. Boil the hops with the wort an hour from the time it first boils. Strain off and cool. If the whole be not cool enough that day to add to the yeast, a pail or two of wort may be prepared, and a quart of yeast put to it over night. Before tunning, all the wort should be added together, and thoroughly mixed with the lade-pail. When the wort ceases to work, put a bit of paper on the bung- hole for three days, when it may safely be fastened close. In three or four weeks the beer will be fit for drinking. Note. Servants should be directed to put a cork into cv’^ery barrel as soon as the cock is taken out, and to fasten in the vent-peg, the air causing casks to become musty. To refine Beer, Ale, Wine, or Cider. Put two ounces of isinglass-shavings to soak in a quart of the liquor that you want to clear, beat it with a whisk every day till dissolved. Draw off a third part of the cask, and mix the above with it: likewise a quarter of an ounce of pearl ashes, one ounce of salt of tartar cal- cined, and one ounce of burnt alum powdered. Stir it well, then return the liquor into the cask, and stir it wdth a clean stick. Stop it up, and in a few days it will be fine. Extract of Malt for Coughs. Over half a bushel of pale ground malt, pour as much hot (not boiling) water as will just cover it. In forty- eight hours, drain off the liquor entirely, but without squeezing the grains; put the former into a large sweet- meat-pan, or sauce-pan, that there may be room to boil as quick as possible, without boiling over; when it be-