194. DOMESTIC COOKERY. the juice of a Seville orange, four ounces of loaf, sugar, and the yolks of four eggs ; beat all together for ten mi- nutes; then by gentle degrees, pour in a pint of boiling cream; beat till cold; put into custard-cups set into a deep dish of boiling water, and let them stand till cold again. Put at the top small strips of orange-paring cut thin, or preserved chips. Raspberry Cream. Mash the fruit gently, and let them drain ; then sprinkle a little sugar over, and that will produce more juice; tlien put the juice to some cream, and sweeten it; after which, if you choose to lower It with some milk, it will not curdle; which it would, if put to the milk, be- fore the cream; but it is best made of raspberry-jelly, instead of jam, when the fresh fruit cannot be obtained. Another way.—Boil one ounce of isinglass-shavings in three pints of cream, and new milk mixed, for fifteen minutes, or until the former be melted ; strain it through a hair-sieve into a basin; when cool put about half a pint of raspberry-juice, or syrup, to the milk and cream ; stir it till well incorporated ; sweeten, and add a glass of brandy; whisk it about tdl three parts cold ; then put it into a mould till quite cold. In summer use the fresh juice; in winter, syrup of raspberries. Spinach Cream. Beat the yolks ot eight eggs with awooden spoon or a whisk; sweeten them a good deal; and put to them a stick of cinnamon, a pint of rich cream, three quarters of a pint of new milk ; stir it w'ell; then add a quarter of a pint of spinach-juce ; set it over a gentle stove, and stir it one way constantly till it is as thick as a hasty pudding. Put into a custard-dish some Aaples biscuits, or pre- served orange, in long slices, and pour the mixture over them. It is to be eaten cold; and is a dish either for supper, or for a second course. Pistachio Cream. Blanch four ounces of pisiactiio nuts ; beat them fine with a little rose-wuitcr, and add the paste to a pint of k cream; sweeten ; let it just boil, and put it into glasses. aj]: it, Piit