DOMESTIC COOKERY. 106 into a very cold place. When cold, take off the cake of fat (which will make crusts for servants’ pies), put the soup into a double-bottomed tin sauce-pan, and set it on a pretty quick fire, but don’t let it burn. It must boil fast and uncovered, and be stirred constantly, for eight hours. Put it into a pan, and let it stand in a cold place a day; then pour it into a round soup china-dish, and set the dish into a stew-pan of boiling water on a stove, and let it boil, and be now and then stirred, till the soup is thick and ropy; then it is enough. Pour it into the little round part at the bottom of cups or basins turned upside down, to form cakes; and when cold, turn them out on flannel to dry. Keep them in tin canisters. When they are to be used, melt them in boiling water; and if you w ish the flavour of herbs, or any thing else, boil it first, strain off the water, and melt the soup in it. This is very convenient in the country, or at sea, where fresh meat is not always at hand; as by this means a basin of soup may be made in five minutes. Soup maigre. Melt half a pound of butter into a stew-pan, shake it round, and throw in six middling onions sliced. Shake the pan well for two or three minutes; then put to it five heads of celery, two handfuls of spinach, two cabbage- lettuces cut small, and some parsley. Shake the pan well for ten minutes ; then put in two quarts of water, some crusts of bread, a tea-spoonful of beaten pepper, three or four blades of mace; and if you have any white beet leaves, add a large handful of them cut small. Boil gently an hour. Just before serving, beat in two yolks of eggs and a large spoonful of vinegar. Another.—Flour and fry a quart of green peas, four onions sliced, the coarse stalks of celery, a carrot, a tur- nip, and a parsnip; then pour on them three quarts of water. Let it simmer till the whole will pulp through a sieve. Then boil in it the best of the celery cut thin. Stock for brown or ivhite Fish-Soups. Take a pound of skate, four or five flounders, and two pounds of eels. Clean them well, and cut them into