156 DOMESTIC COOKERY. ounces of butter in it, till it all looks like flour, and, with a gill of boiling cream, work it up to a fine paste. Another, not sweet, but rich.—Rub six ounces of butter in eight ounces of fine flour ; mix it into a stiffish paste, with as little water as possible : beat it well, and roll it thin. This, as w^ell as the former, is proper for tarts of fresh or preserved fruits. Bake in a moderate oven. A very fine Crust for Orange-cheesecakes, or Szveetmeats, when to he particularly nice. Dry a pound of the finest flour, mix with it three ounces of refined sugar; then work half a pound of but- ter with your hand till it come to froth; put the flour into it by degrees; and work into it, well beaten and strained, the yolks of three, and whites of two eggs. If too limber, put some flour and sugar to make it fit to roll. Line your pattypans, and fill. A little above fifteen minutes will bake them. Against they come out, have ready some refined sugar beat up with the white of an egg, as thick as you can; ice them all over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. Salt butter will make a very fine flaky crust; but if for mince-pies, or any sweet things, should be washed. Observations on Pastry. An adept in pastry never leaves any part of it ad- hering to the board, or dish, used in making. Jt is best when rolled on marble, or a very large slate. In very hot weather, the butter should he put into cold water to make it as firm as possible ; and if made early in the morning, and preserved from the air until it is to be baked, the cook will find it much better. A good hand at pastry will use much less butter, and produce lighter crust, than others. Salt butter, if very good, and well washed, makes a fine flaky crust. • Remark on using preserved Fruit in Pastry. Preserved fruits should not be baked long; those that have been done with their full proportion of sugar, re- quire no baking; the crust should be baked in a tin shape, and the fruit be afterwards added; or it may be put into