173 VEGETABLES.' spoonfuls of vinegar, and give one boil over the fire. Serve it for cold meat, or with sausages on it. Another luay.—Shred the cabbage; wash it: and put it over a slow fire, with slices of onion, pepper, and salt, and a little plain gravy. When quite tender, and a few minutes before serving, add a bit of butter rubbed with flour, and two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil up. Another.—Cut the cabbage very thin ; and put it into the stew-pan with a small slice of ham, and half an ounce of butter, at the bottom, half a pint of broth, and a gill of vinegar. Let it stew covered three hours. When it is very tender, add a little more broth, salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix these well, and boil them all till the liquor is wasted ; then put it into the dish, and lay fried sausages on it. Mushrooms. The cook should be perfectly acquainted with the dif- ferent sorts of things called by this name by ignorant peo- ple, as the death of many persons has been occasioned by carelessly using the poisonous kinds. The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part and stalk are white. As the size in- creases, the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringed fur of a very fine salmon-colour; which continues more or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be at- tended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges and middle. Those that have a white or yellow fur should be carefully avoided, though many of them have the same smell (but not so strong) as the right sort. To steio Mushrooms, The large buttons are best, and the small flaps while the fur is still red. Rub the large buttons with salt and a bit of flannel; cut out the fur, and take ofi' the skin, from the others. Sprinkle them with salt, and put into a stew-pan with some pepper-corns: simmer slowly till done ; then put a small bit of butter and flour, and two