BEEF. 35 yellow; let each bit be near an inch thick: dip them in- to vinegar, and then into a seasoning ready prepared of salt, black pepper, allspice, and a clove, all in fine pow- der, with parsley, chives, thyme, savoury, and knotted marjoram, shred as small as possible, and well mixed. With a sharp knife make holes deep enough to let in the larding; then rub the beef over with the seasoning, and bind it up tight with tape. Set it in a well-tinned pot over a fire or rather stove: three or four onions must be fried brown and put to the beef, with two or three car- rots, one turnip, a head or two of celery, and a small quantity of water, let it simmer gently ten or twelve hours, or till extremely tender, turning the meat twice. Put the gravy into a pan, remove the fat, keep the beef covered, then put them together, and add a glass of port wine. Take off the tape, and serve with the vege- tables; or you may strain them off, and send them up cut into dice for garnish. Onions roasted, and then stew- ed with the gravy, are a great improvement. A tea-cup- ful of vinegar should be stewed with the beef. A Fr lean dealt of Beef. Take a nice bit of lean beef; lard it with bacon sea- soned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice. Put it into a stew-pan with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlick, a shalot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. When the meat is become tender, cover it close : skim the sauce well, and strain it: set it on the fire,'and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the meatfon sorrel-sauce. To stew a Rump of Beef. Wash it well; and season it high with pepper, Cayenne, salt, allspice, three cloves, and a blade of mace, all in fine powder. Bind it up tight, and lay it into a pot that will just hold it. Fry three large onions sliced, and put them to it, vvith three carrots, two turnips, a shalot, four cloves, a blade of mace, and some celery. Cover the meat vvith good beef-broth, or weak gravy. Simmer it as gently as