54 DOMESTIC COOKERY. To collar Calf’s Head. Scald the skin off a fine head, clean it nicely, and take out the brains. Boil it tender enough to remove the bones : then have ready a good quantity of chopped parsley, mace, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, mixed well: season it high with these; lay the parsley in a thick layer, then a quantity of thick slices of fine ham, or a beautiful-coloured tongue skinned, and then the yolks of six nice yellow eggs stuck here and there about. Roll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can. Boil it, and then lay a weight on it. A cloth must be put under the tape, as for other col- lars. Mock Turtle, Bespeak a calPs head with the skin on, cut it in half, and clean it vvellj then half-boil it, take all the meat off in square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil them in some veal and beef broth to add to the richness. Fry some shalot in butter, and dredge in flour enough to thicken the gravy ; stir this into the browning, and give it one or two boils; skim it carefully, and then put in the head; put in also a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the meat is quite tender. About ten minutes before you serve, put in some basil, taragon, chives, parsley, Cayenne pepper, and salt, to your taste; also two spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and one of soy. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. Forcemeat-balls, and small eggs. A cheaper luay.—Prepare half a calFs head, ivithout the skin, as above : when the meat is cut off, break the bones, and put them into a sauce-pan with some gravy made of beef and veal bones, and seasoned with fried onions, herbs, mace, and pepper. Have ready tw-o or three ox-palates boiled so tender as to blanch, and cut into small pieces ; to which a cow^-heel, likewise cut into, pieces, is a great improvement. Browni some butter, flour, and onion, and pour the gravy to it; tlien acid thi^ meats as above, and stew. Half a pint of sherry, an an- chovy, two spoonfuls of w^alnut-ketchup, the same ol