POULTRY-YARD. 271 small (or rather cracked) grits soaked in milk. As soon as they have gained a little strength, feed them with curd, cheese-parings cut small, or any soft food, but nothing sour; and give them clean water twice a day. Keep the hen under a pen till the young have strength to follow her about, which will be in two or three n eeks; and be sure to feed her well. The food of fowls goes first into their crop, which softens it; and then passes into the gizzard, which by constant friction macerates it: and this is facilitated by small stones, which are generally found there, and which help to digest the food. If a sitting hen is troubled with vermin, let her be w-ell washed with a decoction of white lupins. The pip in fow'ls is occasioned by drinking dirty water, or tak- ing filthy food. A white thin scale on the tongue, is the symptom. Pull the scale off with your nail, and rub the tongue with some salt j and the complaint will be removed. It answers well to pay some boy employed in the farm or stable, so much a score for the eggs he brings in. It will be his interest then to save them from being purloined, which nobody but one in his situation can prevent; and sixpence or eightpence a score will be buying eggs cheap. To dress Moor-Fowl with Red Cabbage. Truss the moor-game as for boiling; put them on with a little soup, let them stew for half an hour; cut a stock of red cabbage in four quarters, put it to the moor-fowl, season with white pepper and salt, a little piece of butter rolled in flour; the addition of a glass of port wine is liked by many people. Lift out the cabbage, and place it neatly in the dish, the moor- fowl on it. Pour the sauce over them* and garnish with small slices of bacon fried. To fatten Fowls or Chickens in four or five Days. Set rice over the fire with skimmed milk, only as much as will serve one day. Let it boil till the rice is quite swelled out: you may add a tea-spoonful or two ©f sugar, but it will do well without. Feed them three