DOMESTIC COOKERY. 270 upon as profitable. Some fine young fowls should be reared every year, to keep up a stock of good breeders; and by this attention, and removing bad layers and care- less nurses, you will have a chance of a good stock. Let the hens lay some time before you set them, which should be done from the end of February to the begin- ning of May. While hens are laying, feed them well, and sometimes with oats. Broods of chickens are hatched all through the sum- mer, but those that come out very late require much care till they have gained some strength. If the eggs of any other sort are put under a henw'ith some of her own, observe to add her own as many days after the others as there is a difference in the length of their sitting. A turkey and duck sit thirty days. Choose large clear eggs to put her upon, and such a number as she can properly cover. If very large eggs, there are sometimes tw^o yolks, and of course neither will be pro- ductive. Ten or twelve are quite enough. A hen house should be large and high ; and should be frequently cleaned out, or the vermin of fowls will in- crease greatly. But hens must not be disturbed while sitting; for if frightened, they sometimes forsake their nests. Wormwood and rue should be planted plentilully about their houses; boil some of the former, and sprinkle it about the floor ; which should be of smooth earth, not paved. The windows of the house should be open to the rising sun ; and a hole must be left at the door, to let ihe smaller fowls go in; the larger may be let in and out by opening the door. There should be a small sliding board to shut down when the fowls are gone to roost; which wmukl prevent the small beasts of prey from com- mitting ravages, and a good strong door and lock may possibly, in some measure, prevent the depredations of human enemies. When some of the chickens are hatched long before the others, it may be necessary to keep them in a basket of wool till the others come forth. 'Ihe day after they are hatched, give them some crumbs of white bread, and