234. DOMESTIC COOKERY. and three quarters of a pound of sweetmeats cut not too thin. Let all be kept by the fire, mix all the dry ingre- dients; pour the eggs strained to the butter; mix half a pint of sweet wine with a large glass of brandy, pour it to the butter and eggs, mix well, then have all the dry things put in by degrees; beat them very thoroughly, you can hardly do it too much. Having half a pound of stoned jar-raisins chopped as fine as possible, mix them carefully, so that there shall be no lumps, and add a tea-cupfnl of orange-flower w^ater. Beat the ingre- dients together a full hour at least. Have a hoop well buttered, or, if you have none, a tin or copper cake-pan ; take a white paper, doubled and buttered, and put in the pan round the edge, if the cake-batter fill it more than three parts; for space should be allowed for rising. Bake in a quick oven. It wdll require three hours. Rout Drop Cakes. Mix tw'o pounds of flour, one ditto butter, one ditto sugar, one ditto currants, clean and dry ; then wet into a stiff paste, w’ith two eggs, a large spoon of orange-flower water, ditto rose-water, ditto sweet wine, ditto brandy, drop on a tin-plate floured ; a very short time bakes them. Flat Cukes, that will keep long in the house good. Mix two pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, and one ounce of caraways, with four or five eggs, and a few spoonfuls of water, to make a stiff paste; roll it thin, and cut it into any shape. Bake on tins lightly floured. While baking, boil a pound of sugar in a pint of water to a thin syrup; while botli are hot, dip each cake into it, and put them on tins into the oven to dry for a short time; and when the oven is cooler still, return them there again, and let them stay four or five hours. Little White Cakes. Dry half a pound of flour, rub into it a very little pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few ca- raways, and as much milk and w'atcr as to make a paste ; roll it thin, and cut it w^ith the top of a canister or glass. Bake fifteen minutes on tin plates.