DOMESTIC COOKERY. 232 butter and eggs for havifig yeast, and eat equally light and rich. Jf the leaven be only of flour, milk and water, and yeast, it becomes more tou‘;h, and is less easily di- vided, than if the butler be first put with those ingre- dients, and the dough afterwards set to rise by the fire. The heat of the oven is of great importance for cakes, Cuspecially those that are large. If not pretty quick, the batter will not rise. Should you fear its catching by being too quick, put some paper over the cake to pre- vent its being burnt. If not long enough lighted to have a body of heat, or it is become slack, the cake will be heavy. To know when it is soaked, take a broad-hladed knife that is very bright, and plunge into the very cen- tre, draw it instantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the cake immediately in, and shut up the oven. If the heat was suflicient to raise, but not to soak, I have with great success had fresh fuel quickly put in, and kept the cakes hot till the oven was fit to finish the soaking, and they turned out extremely well. But those who are employed, ought to be particulai’ly careful that no mistake occtfr from negligence when large cakes are to be baked. -1 Iceingfor Cakes. For a large one, beat and sift eight ounces of fin- sugar, put into a mortar with four spoonfuls of rose- water, and the whites of two eggs beaten and strained, whisk it well, and when the cake is almost cold, dip a feather in the iceing, and cover the cake well; set it in the oven to harden, but don’t let it stay to discolour. Put the cake into a dry place. To ice a very large Cake. Beat the whites of twenty fresh eggs ; then by degrees beat a pound of doubt -refined sugar sifteil through a lawn-sieve; mix these .'ell in a deep earthen pan; add orange-flower water, and a piece of fresh lemon-peel; of the former en >agh to flavouf, aivd no more. Whisk it for three hours till tlie mixture is thick and white; then with a thin broad bit of board spread it all over the