DOMESTIC COOKERY. 262 two meals of skim, and one of new milk ; or in good land, by the skim-milk only. Butter likewise should be made, and potted down for winter-use, but not to inter- fere with the cheese as above, which will not take much time. To prepare Rennet to turn the Milk. Take out the stomach of a calf as soon as killed, and scour it inside and out with salt, after it is cleared of the curd always found in it. Let it drain a few hours; then sew it up with two good handfuls of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted; or keep it in the salt wet, and soak a bit, which will do over and over by fresh water. Another wap.—Clean the maw as above; next day take two quarts of fresh spring-water, and put into it a handful of hawthorn-tops, a handful of sweet-briar, a handful of rose-leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted marjoram, and two large spoonfuls of salt. Let them boil gently to three pints of water; strain it off’; and when only milk- M^arm, pour it on the veil (that is, the maw). Slice a lemon into it; let it stand two days; strain it again, and bottle it for use. It will keep good at least twelve months, and has a very fine flavour. You may add any sweet aromatic herbs to the above. It must be pretty salt, but not brine. A little will do for turning. Salt the veil again for a week or two, and dry it stretched on sticks crossed, and it will be near as strong as ever. DonT keep it in a hot place when dry. To make Cheese. Put the milk into a large tub, warming a part till it is of a degree of heat quite equal to new; if too hot the cheese will be tough. Put in as much rennet as will turn it, and cover it over. Let it stand till completely turned ; then strike the curd down several times with the skim- ming-dish, and let it separate, still covering it. There are two modes of breaking the curd ; and there will be a difference in the taste of the cheese, according as either is observed; one is, to gather it with the hands very