DOMESTIC COOKERY. 220 This way the jam is greatly superior in colour and fla» vourto that which is made by putting the sugar in at first. Another \uny.—Put the fruit in ajar in a kettle of wa- ter, or on a hot hearth, till the juice will run from it, then take away a quarter of a pint from every pound of fruit; boil and bruise it half an hour, then put in the weight of the fruit in sugar, and adding the same quan- tity of currant-juice, boil it to a strong jelly. The raspberry-juice will serve to put into brandy, or may be boiled with its weight in sugar for making the jelly for raspberry-ice or cream. To preserve Greengages. Choose the largest, when they begin to soften ; split them without paring, and strew a part of the sugar which you have previously weighed an equal quantity of. Blanch the kernels with a small sharp knife. Next day, pour the syrup from the fruit, and boil it with the other sugar, six or eight minutes, very gently; skim and add the plums and kernels. Simmer till clear, taking off any scum that rises ; put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels to it. If you would candy it, do not add the syrup, but observe the direc- tions that will be given for candying fruit; some may be done each way. Damson Cheese. Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar in a saucepan of water, or on a hot hearth. Pour olF some of the juice, and to every two pounds of fruit w'eigh half a pound of sugar. Set the fruit over a fire in the pan, let it boil quickly till it begin to look dry ; take out the stones, and add ihe sugar, stir it well in, and simmer two hours slowly, then boil it quickly half an hour, till the sides of the pail candy; pour the jam then into potting-pans or dishes about an inch thick, so that it may cut firm. If the skins be disliked, then the juice is not to be taken out; but after the first process, the fruit is to be pulped through a very coarse sieve with the juice, and managed as above. The stones are to be cracked, or some of them and the kernels boiled in the jam. All the juice may be