179 PICKLES. Prepare various sorts of vegetables thus : Quarter small white cabbages, salt three days, squeeze, and set them in the sun to dry. Cauliflowers cut in their branches ; take off the green from radishes ; cut celery in three-inch lengths ; ditto young French beans whole, likewise the shoots of elder, which will look like bamboo. Apples and cucumbers, choose of the least seedy sort; cut them in slices, or quarters if not too large. All must be salted, drained, and dried in the sun, except the latter; over which you must pour boiling vinegar, and in twelve hours drain them, but no salt must be used. Put the spice, garlick, a quarter of a pound of mustard- seed, and as much vinegar as you think enough for the quantity you are to pickle, into a large stone jar, and one ounce of turmeric, to be ready against the vege- tables shall be dried. When they are ready, observe the following directions: Put some of them into a two- quart stone jar, and pour over them one quart of boiling vinegar. Next day take out those vegetables; and when drained, put them into a large stock jar, and boil- ing the vinegar, pour it over some more of the vege- tables ; let them lie a night, and do as above. Thus proceed till you have cleansed each set from the dust which must inevitably fall on them by being so long in 1 doing ; then, to every gallon of vinegar put two ounces of flour of mustard, mixing, by degrees, with a little of it boiling-hot. The whole of the vinegar should have been previously scalded, but set to be cool before it was put to the spice. Stop the jar tight. This pickle will not be ready for a year; but you may make a small jar for eating in a fortnight, only by giving the cauliflower one scald in water, after salting and dry- ing as above, but without the preparative vinegar ; then pour the vinegar, that has the spice and garlick, boiling- hot over. If at any time it be found that the vegetables have not swelled properly; boiling the pickle, and pour- ing it over them hot, will plump them.