210 DOMESTIC COOKERY. clear; then take out the pieces of apricots singly as they become so; put them into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels over them. The scum must be taken off as it rises. Cover v\dth brandy-paper. To preserve Apricots in Jelly. Pare the fruit very thin, and stone it; weigh an equal »][uantity of sugar in fine powder, and strew over it. Next ' day boil very gently till they are clear, move them into a bowl, and pour the liquor over. The following day pour the liquor to a quart of codlin-liquor, made by boil- ing and straining, and a pound of fine sugar; let it boil quickly till it will jelly; put the fruit into it, and give one boil, skim well, and put into small pots. To preserve green Apricots. Lay vine or apricot leaves at the bottom of your pan, then fruit, and so alternately till full, the upper layer being thick with leaves ; then fill with spring water, ami cover down, that no steam may come out. ISet the pan at a distance from the fire, that in four or five hours they may be only soft, but not cracked. Make a thin syrup of some of the water, and drain the fruit. When botli are cold, put the fruit into the pan, and the syrup to it; put the pan at a proper distance from the fire till the apri- cots green, but on no account boil or crack; remove them very carefully into a pan with the syrup for two or three days; then pourolf as much of it as wall be neces- saiy, and boil with more sugar to make a rich syrup, and put a littla sliced ginger into it. When cold, and the thin syrup has all been drained from the fruit, pour the thick over it. 'j'he former will serve to sweeten pies. Apr'icois or Peaches in Brandy. Wipe, weigh, and pick the fruit, and have ready a quarter of the weight of fine sugar in fine powder. Put the fruit into an ice-pot that shuts very close; throw the sutjar over it, and then cover the Iruitwith brandy* Be- tween the top and cover of the pot, pul a piece of double cap-paper. Set the pot into a sauce-pan of water till the brandy be as hot as you can possibly bear to put your