136 DOMESTIC COOKERY. making the paste as stiff as you can to be smooth, which you will make it by good kneading and beating it with the rolling-pin. When quite smooth, put in a lump into a cloth, or under a pan, to soak till near cold. Those who have not a good hand at raising crust may do thus : Roll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bottom of the pie, then a long piece for the sides. Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bring- ing the former rather further out, and pinching both to- gether : put egg between the edges of the paste, to make it adhere at the sides. Fill your pie, and put on the co- ver, and pinch it and the side crust together. 1 he same mode of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed into a tin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall be filled and covered; but in the latter case, the tin should be buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough; and as the form usually makes the sides of a lighter colour than is proper, the paste should be put into the oven again for a quarter of an hour. With a feather, put egg over at first. PUDDINGS, &c. Observations on making Puddings and Pancakes. The outside of a boiled pudding often tastes disagree- ably ; which arises from the cloth not being nicely wash- ed, and kept in a dry place. It should be dipped in boiling water, squeezed dry, and floured when to be used. If bread, it should be tied loose : if batter, tight over. The water should boil quick when the pudding is put in; and it should be moved about for a minute, lest the ingredients should not mix. Batter-pudding should be strained through a coarse sieve, when all is mixed. In others the eggs separately. The pans and basins must be always buttered. A pan of cold water should be ready, and the pudding dipt in as soon as it comes out of the pot, and then it will not adhere to the cloth. Very good puddings may be made without eggs; but they must have as little milk as will mix, and must boil