351 11. A DAY in SPRING, and other Poems. By Richard PTestall, Esq. R. A. Elegantly printed in 8vo. with four exquisite Engravings by Heath, after Designs by the Author. 12s. 12. ORIENTAL TALES, translated into English Verse. By John Hopprier, Esq. R. A. With a Plate, after a Design of Mr. Lascelles Hoppner. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 7s. 12. The WORKS of Mrs. CHAPONE;—containing Letters on the Improvement of the Mind—IMiscellanies in Prose and Verse—Cor- respondence with Mr. Richardson on the Subject of Paternal Authority and Filial Obedience—A Series of Letters to Mrs. Elizabeth Carter- Some Fugitive Pieces, and many Miscellaneous Letters. To which is added, an Authentic Life of the Author, drawn up by her own Family. A new Edition, handsomely printed in four Volumes, small Octavo, price 16s. in boards. “ W'e strongly recommend these volumes to the attention of young female readers in particular, as containing a fund of entertainment and instruction, which may in vain be looked for in many modern publica- tions, repeated editions of which have been obtruded by fashion upon the public.”—British Critic, January 1808. 13. QUEEN-HOO HALL, a Legendary Romance, interspersed with several original and beautiful Ballads; illustrative of the Domestic Manners and Amusements of the Fifteenth Century. By the late Joseph Strutt, Author of “ Rural Sports and Pastimes of the People of England,” &c. In four neatly printed Volumes, small 8vo. Price l6s. in boards. “ This is a most interesting and agreeable romance. The events are probable, the succession of them is conducted in the most pleasing manner, and the denouement must be highly satisfactory to every reader, ■while the characters are natural and well supported, and the sentiments breathe all the high honour, the grateful courtesy, and the pious humi- lity, which are supposed to have characterised the age of chivalry.”— Monthly Review. 14. ROMANCES; consisting of Mejnoun and Leila, a Persian 1 Romance, interspersed with Notes and Poetry, descriptive of Oriental ! Scenery; Love and Humility, a Roman Romance; The Lovers, or t the Birth of the Pleasing Arts, an Arcadian Romance. By I. D'Israeli. IThird Edition. With an Engraving, after a Design by Westall. Fools- cap 8vo. 7*' 6d.