27 MEAT. meat is brought from a distance in warm weather, the butcher should be ordered to cover it close, and bring it early in the morning; but even then, if it is kept on the road while he serves the customers who live nearest to him, it will very likely be fly ‘blown. This happens often in the country. Wash all meat before you dress it: if for boiling, the colour will be better for soaking; but if for roasting, dry it. Boiling in'a well-floured cloth will make meat w'hite. Particular care must be taken that the pot is w^ell skim- med the moment it boils, otherwise the foulness will be dispersed over the meat. The more soups or broth are skimmed, the better and cleaner they will be. The boiler and utensils should be kept delicately clean. Put the meat into cold w ater, and flour it well first. Meat boiled quick will be hard; but care must be taken that in boiling slow it does not stop, or the meat w'ill be underdone. If the steam is kept in, the water w ill not lessen much; therefore when you wish it to boil away, take off the cover of the soup-pot. Vegetables should not be dressed w^iththe meat, except carrots or parsnips with boiled beef. As to the length of time required for roasting and boil- ing, the size of the joint must direct; as also the strength of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and in boiling, the regular though slow progress it makes; for if the cook, when told to hinder the copper from boiling quick, lets it stop from boiling up at all, the usual time will not be suf- ficient, and the meat will be underdone. Weigh the meat; and allow for all solid joints, a quarter of an hour for every pound, and some minutes (from ten to twenty) over, according as the family like it done. A ham of twenty pounds will take four hours and a half, and others in proportion. A tongue, if dry, takes four hours slow boiling, after soaking: a tongue out of pickle, from two hours and a half to three hours, or more if very large ; it must be judged by feeling whether it is very tender. c 2