ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 156 edge of tlie hollow behind the spine, and is in relation with the posterior crucial ligament. The external semilunar cartilage forms nearly a complete circle ; its two cornua, fixed, one before, the other between the points of the spine of the tibia, are so close at their insertion that they may be said to be interposed between the attachments of the internal semilunar plate. Its external border is in contact behind with the tendon of the popliteus muscle, and is therefore separated by this from the fibrous capsule. From this fibro- cartilage a ligamentous band ascends, to be attached to the inner condyle of the femur in connection either in front or behind with the posterior crucial ligament (accessory hand of the posterior crucial ligament). Transverse ligament.—Towards the front of the joint the convex borders of the inter-articular fibro-cartilages are connected by a slight transverse band, which receives this name. Its thickness varies much in difierent bodies. Capsular membrane.—Under this name is described the fibrous tissue which invests the joint in the intervals between the stronger bands which have been named ligaments. It is incomplete, not extending underneath the tendons of the extensor muscles. Between the sides of the patella and the femur it consists of fibres connected with the insertion of the vasti muscles and with the fascia lata, and thus forms the structures, uniting the patella to the tibia, which have been called lateral patellar ligaments; posteriorly it covers the condyles of the femur beneath the gastrocnemius muscle. In this last situation it is thin, and a sesamoid bone is often found in connection with it in the outer, less frequently in the inner head of the muscle. Fig. 143. —Vertical Antero-Posterior Section OP the Left Knee-Joint, seen fkom the outer OK LEFT SIDE. 5 Tbe section is made somewhat obliquely a little to the o\itside of the middle, so as to preserve entire the crucial ligaments with their attachments : it is from a young subject of eighteen or nineteen years. 1, 1, the upper portion of the synovial cavity of the joint, showing in the part above the patella the synovial pouch which extends upwards between the extensor tendons and the femur ; 1', an aperture made into the posterior portion of the synovial cavity; 2, 2', ligamentum mucosum ; 3, ligamen- tum patellse; 2', 3, the subpatellar synovial fatty cushion; 4, bursa above the insertion of the liga- mentum patellse into the anterior tibial tuberosity ; 5, 5', the anterior crucial ligament; 5', points also to the internal semilunar cartilage within the joint; 6, lower part of the posterior crucial liga- ment, the ujjper part of which is towards 2 ; 6', the accessory band joining the external semilunar carti- lage, which is cut short; 7, the spine of the tibia. The synovial membrane is the largest in the body. Traced downwards from the femur on either side of the joint, it may be foUowed from the capsule to the upper surface of the semi-lunar cartilages, round the free borders of those structures to then- inferior surfaces