VERTEBKAL COLUMN. 6 rib. The body of the first dorsal vertebra is, however, distiuguished by having on each side a complete articular surface for the head of the first rib, besides a smaller surface on the lower border for one facet of the second rib: the costal surface on the tenth vertebra is usually complete for the tenth rib ; and ou the eleventh and twelfth there is only one articular surface on each side for the corresponding ribs. The laminoi, shorter and deeper than in the cervical vertebrae, are imbri- cated or sloped one pair over another like tiles on a roof. The pedicles are nearly on a level superiorly with the upper surface of the body ; and hence the superior notches are very shallow, while the inferior notches are com- l^aratively deep. The spinous process, described as bayonet-shaped, is three-sided, elongated, and sloped, and terminates in a slight tubercle. It is longest and has the greatest downward inclination in those towards the centre of the series; and in them the terminal tubercles are slender, whUe those of the upper and lower vertebrae are thickened. The transverse processes are directed outwards and backwards, and present in front of the extremity, which is enlarged into a rough tubercle, a smaU surface for articulation with the tubercle of the rib. There is, however, no such surface in the case of the eleventh or twelfth dorsal vertebrae. In several of the lowest dorsal vertebrae there may readily be recognized on the extremity of the transverse process, when looked at from behind, three tubercular elevations, varying somewhat in form and size, and which are named the external, internal, and inferior tubercles of the transverse pro- cess. In the twelfth vertebra, in which the transverse process is extremely short, those three tubercles are most fully developed. They correspond respectively to the transverse, mammillary, and accessory tubercles after- wards noticed in the lumbar vertebrae. (See Fig. 4, e, f, 6.) The articulati7ii/ processes have their cartilaginous siirfaces nearly verti- cal. Those of the superior processes look backwards and slightly upwards and outwards, those of the inferior processes look forwards and slightly downwards and inwards. But the superior articular processes of the first dorsal vertebra are similar to those of the cervical, and the inferior of the twelfth dorsal to those of the lumbar vertebrae. The ting is nearly circular, and is smaller than in the cervical or lumbar region. LUMBAR VERTEBRA. The lumbar vertebraj are five in number. They are distinguished by their great size and the absence of costal articulating surfaces. The body has a greater diameter transversely than from before back- wards, and viewed from above or below its surface presents a reniform outline. That of the fifth lumbar vertebra has the distinctive character of being considerably deeper at its anterior than at its posterior margin. The laminoB are shorter, deeper, and thicker than those of the dorsal vertebrae. The superior notches are shallow, the inferior deep, as in the dorsal vertebrae. The spinous process, projecting horizontally backwards, is shaped like the blade of an axe, but is thickened and rough along the edge which forms its extremity. The transverse processes, long and compressed, with a superior and infe- rior thin margin, project directly outwards. Their extremities lie in series with the external tubercles of the lower dorsal transverse processes and