ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. 126 process. These form the figure of a cross with the transverse ligament, and serve to bind the occiput to the first two vertebrae ; from this arrange- ment 18 derived the term cruciform, which is sometimes applied to the transverse ligament and its appendages together. Fig. 113. — Transverse VERTicATi Section of the lower part of the Occipital Bone, and the TWO UPPER Vertebra behind the Articula- tions (after Arnold). 4 1, 1, apparatus ligamea- tosus and posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae dissected off the back of the odontoid process, and turned up on the occi- pital bone; 2, 2', vertical part, and 3, 3, transverse or principal part of the cru- cial ligament; x , neck of the odontoid process ; 4, 4, the alar, lateral, check, or occipito-odontoid ligaments; 6, 5, the accessory ligaments of the atlanto-axial capsules, or the lower lateral ligaments of the odontoid process ; 6, 6, part of the capsular ligaments of the condyloid articula- tions ; 7, 7, capsular ligaments of the atlanto-axial articulations; 8, 8, intertransverse ligaments between the occiput and atlas. Two synovial membranes axe placed one in front and another behind the odontoid process ; the first of these is situated between the process and the anterior arch of the atlas, the other between the process and the transverse ligament. Fig. 114. Fig. 114.—View of the Articulation of THE Odontoid Process of the Axis with THE Atlas, the upper part op the An- terior Arch of the Atlas and the Head of the Odontoid Process having been REMOVED BZ A HORIZONTAL SECTION. \ 1, cut surface of the odontoid process ; 2, cut surface of the anterior arch of the atlas ; 3, transverse ligament ; between 1 and 2, the anterior synovial cavity ; between 1 and 3, the posterior synovial cavity of the articulation ; at the sides of the odontoid process, between the anterior and posterior synovial sacs, are seen loose ligamentous fibres ; 4, is placed on the back part of the left superior articular process of the atlas : the anterior part of this process, and that of the other side, have been partly removed by the section. For the sake of distinctness, the synovial spaces are represented somewhat wider than natural. The odontoid or c/iecfc ligaments are two thick and very strong bundles of fibres which extend from the sides of the summit of the odontoid process outwards and a little upwards to be implanted into the rough depression on the inner side of the condyles of the occipital bone, and into a small part of the margin of the foramen magnum. Some of the fibres of the two liga- ments are continuous across the middle line.