xxvii THE BLOOD. loss may bo repaired by regeneration of a new portion of tissue of the same kind ; but the extent to which this restoration is possible is very different in difforeut textures. Thus, in muscle, a breach of continuity may be repaired by a new growth of connective tissue ; but the lost muscular sub- stance is not restored. Regeneration occurs in nerve ; in bone it takes place readily and extensively, and still more so in fibrous, areolar, and epithelial tissue. The special circumstances of the regenerative process in each tissue will be considered hereafter ; but we may here state generally, that, as fiir as is known, the reproduction of a texture is effected in the same manner as its original formation. In experimental inquiiies respecting regeneration, we must bear in mind, that the extent to which reparation is possible, as well as the readiness with which it occurs, is much greater in many of the lower animals than in man. In newts, and some other cold-blooded vertebrata, indeed (not to mention still more wonderful instances of regeneration in animals lower in the scale), an entu-e organ, a limb, for example, is readily restored, complete in all its parts, and perfect in all its tissues. In concluding what it has been deemed advisable in the foregoing pages to state respecting the development of the textures, we may remark, that, besides what is due to its intrinsic importance, the study of this subject derives great interest from the aid it promises -to afford in its application to pathological inquiries. Re- searches which have been made within the last few years, and which are still zealously carried on, tend to show that the structures which constitute morbid growths are formed by a process analogous to that by which the natural or sound tissues are developed : some of these morbid productions, indeed, are in no way to be distin- guished from areolar, fibrous, cartilaginous, and other natural structures, and have, doubtless, a similar mode of origin; others, again, as far as yet appears, are peculiar in structure and composition, but still their production is with much probability to be referred to the same general process. The prosecution of this subject, however, does not fall within the scope of the present work. THE BLOOD. PHYSICAL AND OKGANIC COTSTSTITUTION. The most striking external character of the blood is its well-known colour, which is florid red in the arteries, but of a dark purple or modena tint in the veins. It is a somewhat clammy and consistent liquid, a little heavier than water, its specihc gravity being 1052 to 1057 ; it has a saltish taste, a slight alkaline reaction, and a peculiar faint odour. To the naked eye the blood appears homogeneous ; but when examined with the microscope, either while within the minute vessels, or when spread out into a thin layer \ipon a piece of glass, it is seen to consist of a trans- parent colourless fluid, named the "lymph of the blood," "liquor sanguinis," or "plasma," and minute solid particles or corpuscles immersed in it. These corpuscles are of two kinds, the red and the colourless : the former are by far the most abundant and have been long known as "the red particles," or "globules," of the blood; the "colourless," "white," or "pale corpuscles," on the other hand, being fewer in number and less conspicuous, were later in being generally recognised. "When blood is drawn from the vessels, the liquor sanguinis separates into two parts ; into fibrin, which becomes solid, and a pale yellowish liquid named serum. The fibrin in solidifying involves the corpuscles and forms a red consistent