TPIE FRONTAL BOISTE. 33 canal, and throngliont the inner surface the dimpling of the convolutions of the cerctrum ; 8, the parietal foramen ; 9, the irregular pits for the glaudulu; Paccliionii. On the inner surface, the hollow corresponding to the eminence is called the parietal fossa. This surface is marked by grooves branching upwards and backwards, corresponding with the course of the middle meningeal vessels, and by depressions corresponding with the convolutions of the brain. A slight depression along tho superior border completes with the one of the opposite side a groove marking the course of the longitudiiial sinus ; and a depression at the posterior inferior angle forms a small part of the groove of the lateral sinus. Near the upper border there are in most skulls, but particularly in those of old persons, small irregular pits, fovece glandulares, the result of absorption produced by the so-named glandulae PacchionuL Borders.—The anterior, superior, and posterior borders are serrated. The inferior border presents in the greater part of its extent a sharp or squa- mous edge, with a slightly fluted surface directed outwards and overlapped at its anterior extremity by the great wing of the sphenoid, and behind that by the squamous part of the temporal bone ; but at its posterior part it is serrated, and articulates with the mastoid portion of the temporal. The posterior border is the most deeply serrated. The anterior border is slightly overlapped by the frontal bone above, but overlaps the edge of that bone inferiorly. THE FRONTAI. BONE. The frontal bone, arching upwards and backwards from above the orbits, forms the fore part of the vault of the skull. It likewise presents inferiorly two thin horizontal laminjB, the orbital plates, which form the roofs of the orbits and are separated by a mesial excavation, the incisura ethmoidalis. Fig. 30.—Fkontal Bone prom BEFORE, SHOWING ITS ExTER- Fig. 30. NAi. Surface. 1, frontal protuberance; 2, na- sal spine, and above this the ser- rated surface for articulation of the nasal and superior maxillary bones; 3 to 4, supra-orbital edge —3, internal, and 4, external an- gular process ; 5, supra-orbital notch or foramen; 6, glabella; 7, superciliary eminence and ridge ; 8, temporal ridire, and behind this a part of the tem- poral fossa. The frontal is articulated with twelve bones, viz., posteriorly with the parie- tals and sphenoid; outside the orbits with the malars ; and between the orbits, from before backwards, with the nasal, superior maxillary, lachrymal and ethmoid bones. Anterior Surface.—Tho part forming the greatest convexity of the fore- head on each side is called the frontal eminence. It is separated by a alight depression below from the superciliary ridge, a curved elevation of