17 DEVELOPMENT OF TITE VEllTEBR/E. dissimilar elements from its substance. In the first place, tlie outer half of each is (lividcil by a transverse fissure into two parts, of which the anterior, or that towards the head, is afterwards converted into the root and ganglion of a spinal nerve ; Fig. 14. 3 1 T Fig. 14, A.—Transverse section through the spinal part of the onibryo represented in fig. 13, at the place where the spinal canal is still open, or is only a groove. _ 1, chorda dorsalis ; 2, spinal canal or primitive groove ; 2 to 3, medullary plates, continuous with 4, the corneous layer of the bla.stoderm ; 5, the middle layer ; its outer part divided into two lamina;, the upper being the volunto-motory, in which osseous and muscular plates after- wards make their appearance, and the lower being the involunto-motory or intestino-fibrous lamina; 6, the epithelial, or lowest layer of the blastoderm ; 7, the inner part of the middle layer, in which the primitive vertebral seg- ments are developed. Fig. 14, B (adapted from Remak and Kolliker).—Transverse section of the lumbar part of an embryo more advanced, or towards the fifth day, showing the spinal canal and spinal marrow closed, the visceral plates and intestine formed, &c. 1, chorda dorsalis in its sheath ; 2, canal of the spinal marrow ; 3, medullary substance of the spinal marrow; 4, corneous layer; 5, outer lamina of the middle layer forming the visceral plates, and along with the corneous layer the amnion 4 X 5 ; 6', inner lamina of the middle layer or intestino-fibrous ; the figure 5' is placed in the peritoneal cavity ; immediately above it are seen the rudiments of the Wolffian bodies, the aorta in the middle between them, and on each side the Wolffian duct ; 6, the intestinal cavity and epithelial layer, extending at 5', 6, into the blastoderm of the yolk sac. and the posterior is the source of the transverse process of a vertebra and adjacent portion of a rib. The inner part of the primordial vertebral mass passes inwards in two modes: 1st, by its deepest part it passes above and below the chorda dorsalis, and joining with the corresponding structures from the opposite side, surrounds Fig. 15: Fig. 15 (from Remak and Kolliker).'—The cervi- cal part of the primitive vertebral column and adjacent parts of an embryo of the sixth day, showing the division of the primitive vertebral seg- ments into permanent vertebral arches, rudiments of the spinal nerves, &c. 1, 1, chorda dorsalis in its sheath, pointed at its upper end; 2, points by three lines to the original intervals of the primi- tive vertebra;; 3, in a similar manner indicates the places of new division into permanent bodies of ver- tebra; ; c indicates the body of the first cervical vertebra; in this and the next the primitive divi- sion has disappeared, as also in the two lowest represented, viz., d and the one above; in those intermediate the line of division is shown : 4, points in three places the vertebral arches; and 5, similarly three commencing ganglia of the spinal nerves : the dotted segments outside these parts are the muscular plates. the chorda; 2nd, its more superficial part completes the formation of a rintr or a part of a cylinder, round the spinal conl. This may be considered as tiic