FASCIiE OF THE LOWER LIMB. 206 The fascia on the^orsum of the foot is reduced to a thin membrane pro- longed from the anterior annular ligament over the extensor tendons. Beueatli it, deep fasciae are placed over the short extensor of the toes and the interossei muscles. The 2^lantar fascia is stronger and thicker than any other of the fibrous membranes. It is composed of dense, white, glistening fibres, the greater number of which are ranged in a longitudinal direction, and extend from the under surface of the os calcis forwards to the heads of the meta- tarsal bones. It presents a central and two lateral portions, clearly marked ofi' from each other by two strong intermuscular septa, indicated on the surface by grooves. The inner portion, very thin and unlike the others, invests the abductor poUicis, and is often partly removed with the skin in dissection. It is continuous round the inner border of the foot with the dorsal fascia and with the internal, annular ligament. The outer part covers the abductor minimi digiti, and is much stronger, particularly between the outer tubercle of the calcaneum and the base of the fifth metatarsal 'bone, between which points it forms a strong ligament. It is continuous round the outer border of the foot with the dorsal fascia, and sends a thin prolongation forwards over the insertion of the abductor and the short flexor of the little toe. The central portion, like the corre- sponding part of the palmar fascia, is narrow behind, and becomes wider and thinner towards the toes. At the back, where it -is thickest, the fascia is attached to the inner tubercle on the under surface of the calcaneum immediately behind the origin of the flexor brevis digitorum, with which muscle it is closely connected. Nearly opposite the middle of the meta- tarsal bones, this fascia, becoming broader and thinner as it advances, begins to divide into five processes, one for each of the toes ; and from this point forwards to the base of the toes, numerous strong transverse fibres are superadded, wliich bind the processes together, and connect them closely with the skin. Near the articulation of the toes with the metatarsal bones, each of the five processes divides, to permit the passage of the flexor tendons ; and the two bundles of fibres resulting from the division of each process, after strengthening the sheath of the tendons over which they pass, are attached to the sides of the metatarsal bone, and are blended with the transverse ligament uniting those bones. From the point of splitting of each process, as in the hand, fibrous bands are continued forwards to the skin in the division between the toes. The two intermuscula/r septa which lie between the middle and lateral portions of the plantar fascia are prolonged deeply upwards into the sole of the foot ; they separate the flexor brevis digitorum from the abductor pollicis on the inner side, and from the abductor minimi digiti on the outer side, and give partial origin to each of these muscles. In both the foot and the hand there is a band of transverse fibres across the roots of the digits, placed immediately beneath the skin, and connected with the subjacent sheaths of the tendons. The digital nerves and vessels are covered by this structure, which receives the name of transverse liga- ment of the toes or fingers. In the foot a somewhat similar band, but con- sisting merely of a stronger part of the dorsal aponeurosis, crosses the place of the metatarso-phalangeal articulations.