THE BLOOD. xxvm mass, named the clot or crassamenhim of the blood, from which the serum gradually separates. Hie relation between the above-mentioned constituents of the blood in the liquid and the coagulated states may be represented by the subjoined scheme :— 'Corpuscles Liquid blood Liquor sanguinis Fibrin Serum Clot Coagulated blood. Fig. XV, 4C 7 Fig. XV.—Red Cor- puscles OF Human Blood ; magnified about 500 diameters (Wagner). 1, shows depression on the surface; 2, a cor- puscle seen edgeways; 3, red corpuscles altered by exposure. Sed Corpuscles.—These are not spherical, as the name " globules," by which they have been so generally designated, would seem to imply, but flattened or disk-shaped. Those of the human blood (fig. XV., 2) have a nearly circular outline, like a piece of coin, and most of them also present a shallow cup-like depression or dimple on both surfaces ; their usiial figure is, therefore, that of biconcave disks. Their magnitude difi'ers somewhat even in the same drop of blood, and it has been variously assigned by authors ; but the prevalent size may be stated at from -g^Vtjth to -g-g-Vo*^ °^ diameter, and about one-fourth of that in thickness. In mammiferous animals generally, the red cor- puscles are shaped as in man, except in the camel tribe, in which they have an elliptical outline. In birds, reptiles, and most fishes, they are oval disks with a central elevation on both surfaces (fig. xvx., from the frog), the height and extent of which, as well as the proportionate length and breadth of the oval, vary in different instances, so that in some osseous fishes the elliptical form is almost shortened into a circle. The blood corpuscles of invertebrata, although they (except in some of the red-blooded annehdes) want the red colour, are also, for the most part, flattened or disk-shaped ; being in some cases circular, in others oblong, as in the larvae of aquatic insects. Sometimes they ap- pear granulated on the surface like a raspberry, but this is probably due to some alteration occurring in them. The size of the corpuscles differs greatly in different kinds of ani- mals ; it is greater in birds than in mammalia, and largest of all in the naked amphibia. They are for the most part smaller in quadrupeds than in man; in the elephant, however, they are larger, being ^_ijj_th of an inch, which is the largest size yet oLservod in the blood-corpuscles of any mammiferous Fis. XVL Fig. XVI.—Blood Corpuscles op the Froo ; MAGNIFIED ABOUT 600 DIAMETERS. 1, shows their broad surface ; 2, one seen edgeways ; 3, shows the effect of weak acetic acid ; the nucleus has become distinct; 4, a colourless or lymph corpuscle (from Wagner).