185 MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. The lower surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle is covered by the digastric muscle, the sub-maxillary gland, and the sub-mental vessels and nerve. The deep surface which looks upwards and inwards to the mouth, is in contact with the geuio-hyoideus and part of the hyo-glossus and stylo- glossus muscles, the ninth and gusta- tory nerve-s, the sub-lingual gland, and the duct of tlie sub-maxillary gland. The posterior border alone is free and unattached, and behind it the duct of the sub-maxillary gland turns in passing to the mouth. Fig. 161.—A, THB Lower Jaw and Hyoid Bone, from below, with THE Mylo-Hyoid Muscles at- tached. b, the same, prom behind, with the Mtlo-Htoid AND Genio-Hyoid Mus- cles ATTACHED. | a, the symphysis; 6, the angle of the lower jaw ; c, the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone ; d, in B, the inferior dental foramen and upper end of the mylo-liyoid ridge : in A, 1, the left, 1', the right mylo-hyoid muscle from below : in B, 1, the right, 1', the left mylo-hyoid muscle from above ; 2, the right, 2', the left genio- hyoid muscle from above; 3, the cut ends of the attachment of the genio- glossi muscles to the superior genial spines. The genio-hyoid muscle, a narrow muscle resting on the mylo-hyoid, and in contact with its fellow in the middle line, arises from the inferior of the two genial tubercles behind the symphytis of the jaw, and is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone. It is in contact above with the lower border of the genio-glossus muscle. Actions.—The genio hyoid and mylo-hyoid muscles draw the hyoid bone upwards and forwards, as happens in the first stage of deglutition. The stylo-hyoid muscle draws it upwards and backwards, and comes into action in raising the pitch of the voice. The anterior belly of the digastric muscle acts b}' itself like the genio- hyoid, and the posterior half like the stylo-hyoid; but when both bellies act together, they are capable of producing two movements, in one of which, when the lower jaw is fixed, the hyoid bone is elevated, and in the other, when the hyoid bone is held downwards by the depressing muscles, the digastric muscle opens the mouth by depressing the lower jaw. B. MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. The tongue is a muscular organ attached posteriorly to the hyoid bone, and inferiorly to the lower jaw. It is composed partly of fibres peculiar to itself—the inf/rinsic muscles, which will be noticed in another place; partly of muscles arising from neighbouring parts—the extrinsic muscles about to be described. The {fcnio-glossus or gcnio-hyo-glossus muscle is fan-shaped, aud is placed vertically in contact with its fellow close to the mesial plane. It arises by Fig. IGl.