BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB, 110 looking upwards, which in the middle three projects between the dorsal interosseous muscles on each side. The heads, smaller than the tarsal extremities, are marked on their sides by depressions and tubercles. Their articular surfaces, smooth and convex, are prolonged on the inferior aspect, where they terminate in bifid margins. That of the first metatarsal bone presents inferiorly a ridge in the middle, with grooved depressions placed one on each side and corresponding to the position of the sesamoid bones. THE PHALANGES. The phalanges of the toes so closely correspond in general conformation with those of the fingers that it will only be necessary in this place to state the points in which they differ from the latter. The phalanges of the four outer toes are much smaller than the corres- ponding phalanges of the hand ; but those of the great toe are larger than those of the thumb. The shafts of the first row of phalanges in the fo\ir outer toes are compressed laterally and narrowed in the middle ; those of the second row, more especially the fourth and fifth, are very short, and consist of little beyond what is necessary to unite their articular extremities. The last two phalanges of the little toe are in adults not unfrequently connected by bone into one piece. Sesamotd Bones.—Two sesamoid bones lie side by side in the plantar wall of the first metatarso-phalangeal joint, and glide in the grooves on the head of the first metatarsal bone. Small sesamoid bones sometimes occur in the corresponding joints of the other toes. THE BONES OF THE FOOT AS A WHOLE. The foot is narrowest at the heel, and as it passes forwards becomes broader as far as the heads of the metatarsal bones. The posterior extremity of the calcaneum is inclined inwards and backwards. The astragalus, overhanging the sustentaculum tali, inclines inwards from the calcaneum so much that its external superior angle is directly over the middle line of the calcaneum, and hence the internal malleolus appears more prominent than the external. The foot is arched from behind forwards, the posterior pier of the arch being formed by the heel, the anterior by the balls of the toes. The arch, indeed, may be considered as double in front, with a common support behind. The internal division of the arch is that which bears the greater part of the weight of the body, and is most raised from the ground ; it consists of the calcaneum in its posterior two thu ds, the scaphoid and cimeiform bones, and the three inner toes ; the outer arch is formed by the calcaneum in its whole length, the cuboid bone, and the fourth and fifth toes, a great part of which rests upon the ground in standing. Besides being arched longitudinally, the foot presents likewise a transverse arch formed by the cuboid and three cuneiform bones and the metatarsal bones. DEVELOPMENT OF THE LOWER LIMB. The early stages of development in the lower Umbs are similar to those which have been already described in connexion with the upper. _ _ Ossification—7V/e invoininate hone is formed from the three pnncipal pieces nreviouslv mentioned, viz., the ilium, ischium, and os pubis, and various others of an Linhvsial nature The deposit of bone commences in the cartilaginous piece of the ilium a little later than in other large boncR ; it is followed by that in the ischium and still later by that in the pubis. One epiphysis extends over the whole length of the crest of the ilium ; a second covers the tuberosity of the ischium, passing forwards