81 RADIUS. ULNA. articular surface, which is slightly concave, is somewhat five-sided and divided by a line into a quadrilateral internal part, which articulates with the semi- lunar bone, and a triangular external part, which articulates with the scaphoid bone. The uhiar articular surface is vertical, and forms a right Fig. 71.—JliOHT Eadius pbom bepoke. Pig. 71. pig_ Fig. 72.—Eight Eadics prom behind, J _ _^ _ 1, Lead, showing the hollow above for the humerus, and the short cylindrical surface surrounding it for the ulnar articulation ; 2, the neck ; 3, the tubercle ; 4, is opposite to the oblique line ; 5, internal border or interosseous ridge ; the shaded part near 5 marks llie slight hollow in which the flexor longus pollicis muscle lies ; 6, carpal articular surface; 7, styloid process ; 8, the articular hollow for the lower end of the ulna; 9, impression at the middle of the outer border of the attachment of the pronator radii teres; 10 and 11, oblique depressions marking the places of the extensor longus digitorum and extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis ; between 7 and 8, the dorsal grooves for the tendons of the extensor muscles. angle with the inferior surface ; it is concave from before backwards, forming a semilunar cavity, in which the rounded lower end of the ulna plays. At the external angle of the inferior surface a part projecting downwards, called the styloid process, gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the wrist joint, while the anterior and posterior margins are likewise rough and prominent for other liga- ments. On its external and posterior aspects the inferior extremity of the radius is marked by grooves, which transmit the extensor ten- dons. Thus, on the external border, is a flat groove directed downwards and forwards which lodges the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi internodii jjoUicis; and on the posterior surface are three grooves, the middle one of which, oblique and narrow, and with prominent borders, lodges the extensor secundi internodii pollicis; while of the two others, which are broad and shallower, the external, subdivided by a slight mark, gives passage to the extensores carpi radiales longior and brevior, and the internal transmits the extensor communis digitorum and extensor indicis. THE ITLNA, The ulna is the internal of the two bones of the forearm. It is longer than the radius by the extent of the olecranon process. It is largest at its upper extremity, and is curved and three-sided elsewhere, except for a short distance at the lower end, where it is straight and cylindrical. It is inclined downwards and outwards from the humerus in such a direction that a straight line passing from the gi-eat tuberosity of the humerus down- wards through the capitellum would touch the lower end of the ulna. The ulna articulates with the humerus and the radius : in tlic natural skeleton it is not in contact with the carpal bones, being separated from the cuneiform bone by an inter-articular fibro-cartilage.