CHEMICAL COMPOSITION. '^x'^vii the dried corpuscles too much, viz. to 129 parts per 1000 of bloody Le- canu also gives it at from 120 to 130. Becquerel and Rodier at from 131 to 152 Schmidt, from three modes of calculation, which it is needless here to explain, arrived at the conclusion that the proportion of moist red co^lcles'in ioOO parts of blood is from 480 to 520 ; but h^e are reasons for regarding this as too high au estimate He considers that in the moist state they consist of 31 per cent, of solid matter and 69 per cent, of water : on this understanding, of course, much of the water esti- mated by the loss in drying blood must be assigned to the coi-puscles. Different observers agree that, as a general rule, the proportion of. red particles is greater in the blood of the male sex than in that of the female. Lecanu gives the following mean result, derived from numerous analyses, exhibitmg the proportion ot dry crassamentum and water in the blood of the two sexes. No deduction is made for the fibrin; but, considering its small relative quantity, any possible variation m it cannot materially affect the general conclusion. Male. Female. Crassamentum, from . 115-8 to H8 . . 68-3 to 129-9 "Water . . . .778 to 805 . . 790 to 853 Becquerel and Rodier state the crassamentum in the female at from 113 to 137. Lecanu found the following differences in the crassamentum according to temperament:— Male. Female. Sanguine temperament . . . 136-4 . . • 126-1 Lymphatic temperament . . . 116-6 . . . 117-3 As regards age, Denis found the proportion of crassamentum greatest between the ages of 30 and 40. Sudden loss of blood rapidly diminishes it. In two women who had suffered from uterine hajmorrhage, the crassamentum amounted to only 70 parts in 1000. The same effect may be observed to follow ordinary venesection. In a person bled three times in one day, Lecanu found in the first drawn blood 139, and in the last only 76 parts of crassamentum in the 1000. This effect may be produced very suddenly after a bleeding. Prevost and Dumas bled a cat from the jugular vein, and found 116 parts of crassamentum in 1000, but in blood drawn five minutes afterwards, it was reduced to 93. The sudden loss of blood probably causes a rapid absorption of serous and watery fluid into the vessels, and thus diminishes the relative amount of the red particles. It is found that the blood of warm-blooded animals is richer in crassamentum than that of the cold-blooded; and, among the former, the proportion is highest in the class of birds. Liquor Sanguinis.—The fluid part of the blood, as already described, separates spontaneously into fibrin and serum. The fibrin may be obtained by stirring the blood as soon as possible after it is drawn, or by washing the crassamentum with water, to free it from cruor. Procured in either of these ways, the fibrin contains pale corpuscles and a small portion of fat. From dried fibrin of healthy human blood, Nasse obtained near 5 per cent, of fab, and still more from the fibrin of buffy blood. The propor- tion of fibrin in the blood does not exceed 2^ parts in 1000 ; indeed, according to the greater number of observers, it is not more than 2i. As a general rule, the quantity is somewhat greater in arterial than in venous blood, and it is increased in certain states of the body, especially in inflam- matory diseases and in pregnancy. Nasse thinks that the whole fibrin * For an account of Schmidt's method, see Lehmann's Physiological Chemistry (Cavendish Society's Translation), vol. ii.