88 BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. compressed antero-posteriorly, are each divided by a sliallow groove into two condyles. Those of the middle roio are four in number. Smaller than those of the preceding set, they resemble them in form, with this diflference, that their Ijroximal extremities present on the articular surface a slight middle elevation and two lateral depressions, adapted to articulate with the condyles of the first phalanges. The terminal or ungual phalanges, five in number, have proximal extremi- ties similar to those of the middle row, but with a rough depression in front, where the flexor tendons are inserted. They taper towards their somewhat flattened and expanded free extremities, which are rough and raised round the margins and upon the palmar aspect in the ungual process. Sesamoid bones. —A pair of sesamoid bones is placed in the palmar wall of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the thumb ; and similar nodules, single or double, are sometimes found in the corresponding joint of one or more of the other fingers, most frequently of the index and little fingers. DEVELOPMENT OF THE UPPER LIMB. EiRST APPEARANCE OF THE LIMBS.—The earliest traces of limbs in the human embryo are observed in the fourth or fifth week as elevations of the ventral plates on the sides of the body, tipped with a thickening of the cuticle. In the fifth or sixth week there is distinguishable in each a laterally compressed expansion, the rudimentary hand or foot, and a more cylindrical pedicle, the arm or leg. About the eighth week the division into fingers and] toes takes place, the pollex of each 1 year. 15 or 16 years. 17 or 18 years. 22 years. Fig. 79.—Ossification op the Scapula. A, the scapula from a child of about one year old. 1, shows the large spreading ossifi- cation from the primary centre. 2, the commencing nucleus m the coracoid process. B theTcapulffrom a boy of about fifteen or sixteen years. The coracoid process, (rep^esenteri too much separate in the figure), is now partially umted at its base ; a nucleus 3 has appeared in the acromion, and another, 4, at the lower angle. C shows the condition of the scapula at seventeen or eighteen years of age a second poinCsrharaPpeared in the acromion, and ossification has advanced into the ndge of the base, 6. twenty-two years of age; the acromion and the ridg; of the base are sliU separate. A thin scale on the comcoid process and an epiphysis of the glenoid head, which sometimes occur, have been omitted.