190 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. leading from the mouth to the pharynx, is called the isthmus of the fauces. The soft palate is acted on by five pairs of elongated muscles, two superior^ one in the middle, and two inferior. Of the two inferior pairs of muscles', one is common to the palate and tongue, the otlier to the palate and pharynx. ^ The palato-glossus or constrictor istlimi faucium occupies the anterior pillar of the fauces. Superiorly it is anterior to all the other muscles of the velum, and its fibres are continuous with those of its fellow of the opposite side ; inferiorly, it is lost on the side of the tongue. Fiff. 165. Fig. 16.5.—DiAGRAMMATio View OF the Muscles in the antekiok wall and SIDES OP THE PhARTNX, FROM BEHIND. ^ The posterior wall of the pharynx has been divided by a vertical incision in the middle line, and the cut edges drawn to the side so as to expose the nasal, buccal, and laryngeal openings into the pharynx, a, is above the out surface of the basilar part of the occipital bone, and below that are the posterior nares; 6, upon the cut petrous bone, points by a line to the cartilage of the Eustachian tube of the right side ; c, the back of the ramus of the lower jaw; d, the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage ; e, middle of the upper part of the cricoid cartilage; /, base of the tongue in the buccal aperture above the epiglottis ; g, lower end of the cavity of the pharynx leading down into the gullet; 1, supe- rior constrictor of the pharynx seen from within, and part of the middle con- strictor; 2, palato pharj'ngeus descend- ing to its insertion in the pharynx and thyroid cartilage ; 2', the lower part of the same muscle, on the right side, the tipper having been removed; 3, placed on the internal pterygoid muscle, points to the levator palati; 4, the circumflexus palati muscle on the right side descend- ing from the navicular fossa, and winding round the pulley-like groove of the hamular process into the palate ; 5, the retractor or azygos uvulse muscles ; above e, the transverse arytenoid muscle, and below it on each side the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle. The palato-pharyiigeiis, occupying the posterior pillar of the pharynx, arises in the soft palate by fibres connected with those of the opposite side, and passing partly above and partly below the levator palati and azygos muscles. As the muscle descends it becomes greatly expanded, and its fibres are found extended from the posterior cornu of the thyroid cartilage, back to the middle line of the pharynx posteriorly. The azygos uvulce (Morgagni), so called from having been supposed to be a single muscle, consists of two slips arising, one on each side of the middle line, from the tendinous structure of the soft palate, and, sometimes, from the spine of the palate-plate, and descending into the uvida. The two slips are separated by a slight interval above, and unite as they descend. The levator palati arises from the extremity of tlie petrous portion of the temporal bone, in front of the orifice of the carotid canal, and from the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube. Approaching the middle line as it