MUSCLES OF THE THOllAX. spaces the external layer, 9, 9, of the riglit usually lying anterior to those of the left, and, curving upwards, limit an opening for tlie transmission of the oesophagus, before ending in the central aponeurosis. Fig. 195.—The Lower Halp ot/ THE Thorax, with four Lum- bar Vertebrjj, opened so as TO snow THE Diaphragm from before (modified from Luschka). ^ a, sixth dorsal vertebra; b, fourth lumbar vertebra; c, ensi- form process of the sternum; d, the aorta descending in front of the lower dorsal vertebraj ; d', the aorta emerging in the abdomen below the arch formed by the meeting of the pillars of the dia- phragm ; e, the cesophagus de- scending through its aperture in the diapliragm ; /, opening in the tendon of the diaphragm for the inferior vena cava ; 1, central, 2, right, and 3, left division of the trefoil tendon of the diaphragm ; 4, right, and 5, left muscular part, descending from the margins of the tendon to be attached to the ribs ; 6, the right, and 7, the left crus or pillar of the muscle ; 8 to 8', in the three upper intercostal spaces of the right side the internal layer of intercostal muscles inter- rupted towards the vertebral co- lumn, where in the two upper is seen ; in the lowest space shown the external layer is not represented ; 10, 10, on the left side, indicate the form and position of a part of the subcostal or innermost layer of intercostal muscles. h. The ligamentum areuatum internum is a fibrous band which extends from the body to the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, and sometimes also to that of the second, and arches over the upper part of the psoas muscle. The ligamentum areuatum externum extends outwards from the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the last rib, arching over the front of the quadratus lumborum : it is the upper part of the fascia covering that muscle, somewhat increased in thickness. From both ligamenta arcuata diaphragmatic muscular fibres take their origin, and are directed upwards to the posterior part of the tendinous centre. c. The fibres arising from the cartilages of the six lower ribs form a series of serrated slips interdigitating with the attachments of the transversaHs abdominis muscle. They sometimes arise also in part from the osseous ribs. The fibres proceeding from the ensiform cartilage form a narrow slip, sometimes divided, on each side of which there occurs an interval, in which the lining membranes of the thorax and abdomen are separated only by a small quantity of loose connective tissue. The anterior fibres of the diaphragm are much the shortest. The fibres of the sternal and costal slips, after being united into the general plane of the muscle, rise in an Fig. 195.