289 SUPERFICIAL PLANTAR MUSCLES. From the insortion, oflfsets of the tendon are prolonged forwards to all the cuneiform bones, to the os cuboides, and to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones ; and one thin process is durected back to the sustentaculum tali. The tendon is covered by a synovial membrane behind the malleolus. Close to its insertion, where it lies against the astra- galus, it contains a sesamoid fibro-cartilage, which is occasionally converted into bone. The tibialis posticus is concealed in great part by the aponeurosis prolonged over it from the muscles on either side. Superiorly it is not covered by these muscles, and supports the posterior tibial and peroneal vessels. SHORT PLANTAR MTTSCIES. Common Fiexor or the Toes. —The flexor brevis digitorvm, or flexor perforatiis, arises by a small pointed and tendinous attachment from the inner part of the greater tuberosity of the calcaneum, from- the deep sur- face of the plantar fascia for about two inches forwards, and from the intermuscular septum on each side. The muscle terminates in four slender tendons, inserted into the second phalanx of each of the four outer toes. Each tendon prior to its insertion divides and gives passage between its parts to the tendon of the long flexor, in a manner precisely similar to the arrangement of the tendons of the flexor subUmis and flexor profundus muscles of the hand. This muscle lies between the abductor pollicis and abductor minimi digiti, and is covered by the plantar fascia, which adheres very closely to the posterior part of its surface, and gives origin there to some of its fibres; it conceals the flexor acces- sorius, with the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, the lumbricales, and the plantar vessels and nerves. Fig. 220.—Superficial Plantar Muscles, as seen on the REMOVAL OF THE PlANTAK FasOIA. Fig. 220. 1, abductor pollicis ; 2, flexor brevis digitorum dividing into four slips for the lesser toes : in the second, the sheath is opened so as to show the tendon of the flexor brevis perforated by that of the flexor longus ; in the other three toes the trans- verse and oblique crossing fibres of the sheath are shown ; 3, strongest portion of the plantar aponeurosis left upon the surface of the flexor brevis, near the os calcis ; 4, abductor minimi digiti : the lumbricales muscles are also in part shown. Mdscies op the Great Toe.—The abductoy pollicis pedis arises from the inner part of the larger protuberance of the calcaneum, from the internal annular ligament and the tendinous and fibrous struc- tures on the inner border of the foot as far forwards as the internal cuneiform bone, from the septum between it and the flexor brevis digitorum, and from the plantar fascia covermg it. The fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which, after uniting with the internal head of the flexor brevis pollicis, is inserted into the inner border of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. The flexor brevis pollicis pedis, smgle aud pointed behind, but divided into u