157 THE KNEE-JOINT. and thence to the tibia. The crucial ligaments are invested in front by a reflected portion of the membrane continued forwards from the posterior wall of the joint. Between the tibia and patella the synovial membrane lies upon a largo pad or cushion of fat, on the surface of which it forms two lateral folds (alar ligaments) which lit into the space between the tibia, patella and femur, while from the middle of the pad it sends backwards a cylindrical process, the ligamciUum nmcosum, through the joint to the front of the inter condyloid fossa. Above the patella the synovial membrane extends upwards some distance, forming a large pouch between the extensor tendons and the femur. A[ovEMENTS, &0.—In ordcf to explain the nature of these movements, it is neces- sary to state some considerations with regard to the relations of the several parts of the knee-joint to each other. The knee-joint may bo regarded as consisting of three articulations conjoined, viz., that between the patella and femur, and two others, one between each condyle of the femur and the tibia. In most mammals the synovial membranes of those three joints are either completely distinct or communicate with each other by only small openings. In the human subject the ligamentum mucosum is an indication of the original distinctness of the synovial membranes of the inner and outer joint, and the crucial ligaments may be looked upon as the external and internal lateral ligaments of those tAvo joints respectively. Each portion of the articular surface of the femur belongs either to one or other of the three component joints of the knee, and no part is common to any two of them. On a well-marked Fig. 144. Fig. 144.—The snPEKFioiAL parts of the Knee-joint uemoved, and the E,tTERNAi, Condyle op tub Femuu sawn off obliquely, togetuer with half the patella so ah to expose both tue crucial ligaments togbthkr. ^ ' In A, the parts are in the position of extension, in B, that of flexion, the figures bein" designed to show the different state of tension of the crucial ligaments in these positions" 1, sawn surface of the femur ; 2, sawn surface of the patella ; 3, ligamentum patellte • 4, an tenor or external crucial ligament, tense iu A, and relaxed in B ; 6, posterior'o^ internal crucial ligament, relaxed in A, tense in B ; 6, internal, and 7, external semilunar cartilage ; 8, transverse ligament; 9, articular surface of the tibia, extending behind the external semilunar cartilage ; 10, on the head of the fibula, points to the anterinr superior tibio-peroneal ligament; 11, upper part of the interosseous membrane