133 TEMPORO-MAXILLAllY ARTICULATION. The internal lateral ligament, thin, loose, and elongated, lies at 8ome distance from the joint. It extends from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone downwards and a Uttle forwards, to be attached to the mner border of the dental foramen in the inferior maxiUary bone. Between it and the lower jaw are placed the external pterygoid muscle, the internal maxiUary artery, and the inferior dental nerve. It has no immediate connec- tion with the joint, and by some anatomists is not recognised as a ligament. The inter-articular fibro-cartilage is a thin plate, placed between the articular surfiices of the bones. It is of an oval form, broadest trans- versely, thickest posteriorly, and thinnest at its centre, where it is sometimes perforated. The inferior surface, which is in contact with the condyle, is concave ; the superior is concavo-convex from before backwards, conformmg with the articular surface of the temporal bone. Its circumference is con- nected at the outside with the external lateral ligament, and anteriorly with the external pterygoid muscle. Fig. 123. Fig. 123.—Antero-Poste- RioR Section op the Tem- poro-Maxillary ARTictr- LATJON OP THE RIGHT SIDE. ^ 1, is placed close to the articular eminence, and points to the superior synovial cavity of the joint; 2, is placed close to the articular surface of the head of the lower jaw, and points to the inferior synovial cavity of the joint; X , is placed on the thicker posterior portion of the inter- articular fibro-cartilage. Synovial Membranes.— The synovial membrane which lies between the inter-articular fibro-carti- lage and the glenoid cavity is larger and looser than that which is interposed between the fibro- cartilage and the condyle of the jaw. When the fibro-cartilage is perforated the upper and lower synovial cavities necessarily communicate one with the other. The stylo-maxillary ligament is the name given to a strong or thickened band of fibres connected with the cervical fascia extending from near the point of the styloid process to the posterior border of the ramus of the jaw, where it is inserted between the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles. It separates the parotid from the submaxillary gland. It may be proper also to mention in this place the stylo-hyoid ligament, a thin fibrous cord, which extends from the point of the styloid process to the lesser comu of the hyoid bone, and serves to suspend that bone from the styloid process. A considerable portion of the stylo-hyoid ligament is some- times converted into bone in the human subject, and in animals it is naturally osseous, and constitutes the epi-hyal bone. Movements.—The jaw is capable of movements of elevation and depression, of some degree of lateral displacement, and of protraction and retraction; but it is to be observed that when the jaw is depressed, as in opening the mouth, the condyle advances from the glenoid cavity so as to bo placed on the articular eminence in front