MUSCLES OF THE PEllINiEUM. 2C1 bladder. At tlie place where it is reflected inwards to the side of the bladder, it forms the lateral true vesical ligament. At the side of the bladder and prostate, the recto-vcsical fascia gives a prolongation forwards on the veins (prostatic) which cover the prostate, and is firmly adherent to the capsule of that organ, except at its base, where an angular furrow, occupied by large veins, exists between the prostate and bladder. Into thi-i furrow the incision for lithotomy ought not to extend, on account of the danger from wounding the veins and from the infiltration of urine. A portion of the recto-vesical fascia invests the vesiculae seminales, and is extended across between the bladder and the rectum ; continuing into the membrane of the opposite side, it supports the bladder, and separates that organ from the intestine. On the rectum the ftiscia is also reflected upwards and downwards, gradually degenerating into a thin membrane over the surface of the bowel, as it likewise does on the bladder. c. The obturator fascia is a membrane stretched over the lower part of the surface of the obturator internus muscle within the pelvis. It is connected superiorly vrith the white band before referred to, which consists indeed of its superior fibres, ahd it is attached in the rest of its circumference to the rami of the pubis and iscliium, the ischial tuberosity, and the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments. It lies between the obturator internus muscle and the ischio-rectal fossa, and presents in its substance towards the muscle a canal, which contains the internal pudic artery and nerve in their course to the perinseum. The obturator fascia is sometimes included in the description of the pelvic fascia while the recto-vesical is considered as an offset from it. It will be found, however, on dissection, that the recto-vesical fascia is always most directly continuous with the pelvic fascia, and that the obturator fascia is only loosely connected with it. Indeed, the fibres of the levator ani muscle in most cases pass upwards to some extent beyond the white line, and thus separate the obturator from the pelvic fascia. The iscJdo-rectal fossa is a pyramidal space occupied by subcutaneoiis fat. It is bounded externally by the obturator fascia, posteriorly by the gluteus maximus muscle and great sacro-sciatic ligament, and internally by the recto-vesical fascia; anteriorly, its base is limited by the margin of the perinseal and the sub-pubic fasciae. In the female the pelvic fascia is connected with the vagina in the same manner as with the other pelvic organs. I.IUSOLES OF TH12 PERINiEUM. The muscles of the perinseum difi"er somewhat in the two sexes, and must tlierefore bo separately described in each. In both sexes they may be divided into tAvo groups according as they are more immediately connected with the lower orifice of the alimentary canal or with the genito-urinary outlet. In both groups superficial and deep muscles are to be distin- guished. A.—IN THE MALE. a. ' Anal Grottp.—Tlie internal or circular sphincter is a thick v'm<r of unstnped muscle connected with the lowest circular- fibres of the rectum which will fall more natm-ally to be considered along with the anatomy of that organ.