263 COCCYGEUS-TRANSVERSTJS PERINyEI. bladder, tHe prostate, and tlio neighbouring part of the urethra, with cor- responding fibres from the muscle of the opposite side, and blend also with those of the external sphincter and deep transverse perinoeal muscles. The anterior portion of the levator ani, which arises from the ramus of the pubes, close to the symphysis and above the pubic arch, and also from the adjacent fascire, is sometimes separated at its origin by areolar tissue from the rest of the muscle. From this circumstance, and from its connec- tion with the prostate gland, it was described by Sautorini, and since by Albinus and Sosmmerring, as a distinct miiscle, under the name of the levator prostatce. Its fibres pass backwards parallel with the middle line. The upper or pelvic surface of the levator ani is in contact with the recto-vesical fascia, the capsule of the prostate, and the lower end of the rectum. The under, or perinoeal surface, invested by the thin anal fiiscia, is covered by the fat which occupies the ischio-rectal fossa. The posterior border is continuous with the coccygcus. Fig. 203.—Left half of the Male ]Pelvis, to snow the Levator Ani and CocoTGEUs Muscles (after Cloquet). ^ a, the promontory of the sacrum ; 6, tlie crest of the pubis; c, the last bone of the coccyx; d, the spine of the ischium ; e, the symphysis pubis ; /, a small portion of the anal part of the rectum ; g, half the prostate gland ; h, half the bulb and a portion of the penis with the urethi-a, &c. ; 1, upper part of the obturator in- ternus muscle exposed by removing from within it the pelvic fascia ; 2, coccygeus muscle, and above it and between it and d, the sacro-sciatic ligaments ; 3, inner surface of the levator ani; the white line extending between d and e, shows the place of its origin from the fascia of the pelvis ; below is shown the descent of its fibres to the anus and to the portions of the perinseum before and behind it. Fig. 203. The coccygeals muscle is composed of fleshy and tendinous fibres, forming a thin, flat, and triangular sheet, which arises by its apex from the spine of the ischium and the lesser sciatic ligament, and is attached along its base to the border of the coccyx and the lower part of the sacrum. The fibres of this muscle diverge as they approach the middle line, while those of the levator ani rather converge as they descend. The internal or pelvic surface of this muscle assists in supporting the rectum • its external or under surface rests on the front of the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and on the gluteus maximus muscle. The Icvatores ani and coccygci muscles together have been named somewhat appro pnatcly by Meyer, the pelvic diaphragm. ^ ^ b Genito -urinaby Gkoup. -Covered by the special fascia of the perlnroum arc three muscles, placed superficially-the transverse (superficial transverse), the ischio-cavernosus and the bulbo-cavernosus; while situated more deeply Ween the .superficial and deep layers of the sub-pubic fascia, are the deep transverse muscle and the constrictor of the urethra, sometimes describe M one muscle under the name of compressor of the urethra