47 THE PALATE BONE. part of the floor of the nasal cavity ; its infenor surface is rough, and is marked near its posterior border by a transverse ridge passing inwards from the base of the pyramidal process, giving attachment to the tendinous fibres of the tensor palati muscle. Fig. 40.—Thk Palate Bone op the Right Side. | A, from the outside and behind ; B, from the inside. 1, the upper surface of the palatine plate ; 2, its posterior curved border or palatine arch ; 3, posterior nasal or palatine spine ; 4, the rough surface of adjacent articulation rising superiorly into the vomenc crest, as in A ; 5 5, the nasal process ; 6, the ridge or shelf support- ing the inferior turbinated bone; 7, the sphenoidal process; 8, in B, the orbital process, showing a cellular cavity ; 8', in A, its orbital surface ; 9, the spheno- palatine notch; 10, 11, 12, the pyramidal process—10, rough surface of union with the external pterygoid plate, 11, with the internal ditto, and 12, the inter- pterygoid smooth surface; 13 13, palato-maxillary or posterior palatine canaL The vertical plate, is very thin. Its internal surface looks towards the nasal cavity, and is divided into two parts, corresponding to the g middle and inferior meatus of the nose, by a nearly horizontal ridge which articulates with the inferior turbinated bone. The external surface is traversed by a smooth impression, directed downwards and slightly forwards, the upper part of which forms the internal wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa, while the lower part is hollowed into a deep groove, completing with the superior maxil- lary the posterior palatine canal, which transmits the large descending palatine nerve and accompanying vessels. In front of this canal the external surface is in contact with the internal surface of the maxillary bone and the side of the antrum ; behind the canal it articulates iuferiorly with the hinder border of the maxillary, superiorly with the inner surface of the pterygoid process. The pyramidal jn-ocess or tuberosity fits into the cleft between the ptery- goid plates. It presents posteriorly a triangular surface which is smooth and grooved, and completes the pterygoid fossa on its sides ; it is rough for articulation with the borders of the pterygoid plates, Iuferiorly, close to its connection with the horizontal plate, are two small foramina, the posterior and external small palatine foramina, the extremities of two minute canals which transmit the smaller palatine nerves ; the external one is smallest and inconstant. The orbital process surmounts the anterior margin of the vertical plate. It has the general appearance of an inverted pyramid, and has five surfaces, two of which, the superior and external, are free, and the rest articulated. The superior surface forms the posterior angle of the floor of the orbit ; the external looks into the spheno-maxillary fossa, the anterior articulates with the maxillary, the internal with the ethmoid, and the posterior, wliich is small and only exists towards the extremity of the process, articulates with the sphenoidal spongy bone. The orbital surface is frequently found enlarged, extending upwards between the n 12