vii VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE TEXTURES. thickening of the liquid and its conversion into a jelly; and in the jelly itself the coutractioii still proceeds, causing separation of water, and division into a clot and serum. Their permeability to iluids, their ready capability of physical changes, and their comparative chemical inertness, are properties by which colloid bodies seem fitted to form organised structures, and to take part in the processes of the living economy. In a recent research,* Mr. Graham has found that silicic acid may combine both in a dissolved and in a gelatinous state with a variety of very different fluids without undergoing alteration; and presuming that the organic colloids are invested with similar wide powers of combination, he remarks that the capacity of a mass of gelatinous silicic acid to assume alcohol, or even olein, without disintegration or alteration of form, and to yield it up again in favour of some other substituted ' fluid, may perhaps afford a clue to the penetration of the colloid matter of animal membrane by fatty and other bodies insoluble in water; and moreover, that the existence of fluid compounds of silicic acid of a like nature, suggests the possibility of the formation of a compound of colloid albumen with olein, soluble also and capable of circulating with the blood. The important relation which this new chemical doctrine bears to the constitution and organic processes of the animal body, has appeared to justify the introduction of the present notice of it; for fui'ther information the reader is referred to the sources already cited. VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE TEXTURES. Of tlie phenomena exhibited by living bodies, there are many "which, in the present state of knowledge, cannot be referred to the operation of any of the forces which manifest themselves in inorganic nature ; they are therefore ascribed to certain powers, endowments, or properties, which so far as known, are peculiar to living bodies, and are accordingly named " vital properties." These vital properties are called into play by various stimuli, external and internal, physical, chemical, and mental ; and the assemblage of actions thence resulting has been designated by the term "life." The words " Ufe" and "vitality" are often also employed to signify a single principle, force, or agent, which has been regarded as the common source of all vital properties, and the common cause of all vital actions. As ordinarj' physical forces, such as mechanical motion, heat, electricity, chemical action, and the like, although differing from each other in specific character and mode of operation, are nevertheless shown to be mutually convertible and equivalent, and are held to be but different modifications of one and the same common force or energy, so it may in like manner come to be shown that vital action is similarly related to the physical forces as they are related to each other, and is also a mani- festation, under conditions special to the living economy, of the same common energy. 1. Assimilative Force.—Of the vital properties, there is one which is universal in its existence among organised beings, namely, the property, with which all such beings are endowed, of converting into their own sub- stance, or " assimilating," alimentary matter. The operation of this power is seen in the continual renovation of the materials of the body by nutri- tion, and in the increase and extension of the organised substance, which necessarily takes place in growth and reproduction ; it manifests itself moreover, in individual textures as well as in the entire organism. It has been called the "assimilative force or property," "organising force]" • On the Properties of Silicic Acid and other Analogous Colloidal Substances —Pro ceedings of the Royal Society, June 16th, 18G4. '•'-•tncefi, rro-