ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LfMB. 144 The synovial cavity of tlie carpal articulations is extensive and complicated. Passing between the two rows of carpal bones, it sends likewise two processes between the three bones of the first row, and three between the four bones of the second. It is further continued downwards into the four lower carpo- metacarpal and three intermetacarpal articulations of the ulnar side. In some nire cases there is continuity with the synovial membrane of the wrist-joint, by deficiency of one of the interosseous ligaments between the carpal bones. pj„ J33 Fig. 133.—Tbansverse Section of the Syno- °' ' VIAL Cavities op the Inferior Radio- ulnar, Radio-Carpal, Inter-Carpal, and Carpo-Metaoarpal Articulations. ^ 1, points to the triangular fibro-cartilage below the ulna ; 2, placed on the ulna, points to the cavity of the sacciform synovial mem- brane ; 3, external lateral, and 4, internal lateral ligament, and between them the synovial cavity of the wrist; 5, scaphoid bone ; 6, semi- lunar ; 7, cuneiform ; 8, 8, upper portion, and 8', 8', lower portion of the general synovial cavity of the intercarpal and carpo-meta- carpal articulations; between 5 and 6, and 6 and 7, the interosseous ligaments are seen sepa- rating the carpal articular cavity from the wrist- joint ; between the four carpal bones of the lower row, and between the magnum and scaphoid the interosseous ligaments are also shown; the upper division of the synovial cavity communicates with the lower between 10 and 11, and between 11 and 12 ; x, marks one of the three interosseous metacarpal ligaments ; 9', separate synovial cavity of the first carpo- metacarpal articulation ; 13, first, and 14, fifth, metacarpal bone. Note. It is to be observed that in this figure, and in others of a like kind which represent the joint cavities, the white or black lioes indicating the synovial membranes are, for the sake of clearness, generally represented as passing over the surfaces of the articular cartilages, although this is not the case in nature. These lines therefore must be held to represent merely the whole continuity of the articular, or, as they are often called, the synovial surfaces. The pisiform hone is articulated by a fibrous capsule and synovial mem- brane with the cuneifonn bone. Inferiorly it is united by two strong liga- ments with the unciform and fifth metacarpal bones, and is sometimes also connected with other metacarpal bones ; superiorly it receives the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle. The synovial membrane is usually distinct, but sometimes communicates with that of the radio-carpal articulation. The anterior annular ligament of the wrist is a strong and thick band, which extends from the prominences made by the trapezium and scaphoid bone on the radial side of the carpus, directly across to the pisiform bone and unciform process, and converts the transverse arch of the carpus into a ring through which the flexor tendons of the digits pass into the hand. The posterior annular ligament, placed at the back of the wrist, is only a thickened part of the aponeurosis of the forearm. It extends from the lower part of the radius, at its outer border, to the inner part of the cunei- form and pisiform bones, and serves to bind down the extensor tendons. CONNECTION OF THE METACARPAL BONES WITH THE CARPDS, AND WITH EACH OTHER. The four inner metacarpal bones are bound together at their distal extre- mities by thin fibres passing between them, and constituting on their palmar