40 BONES OF THE HEAD. spongy bonea, dips forwards and doAvnwards, and is connected with the vomer. A thin edge, the sphenoidal crest, extends from the rostrum to the ethmoidal spine, and articulates with the central plate of the ethmoid. The sphenoidal spongy bones, cornua sphenoidalia, or hones of Berlin, are a pair of thin curved plates, whose closest anatomical relationship in the adult is with the sphenoid bone, but which are originally distinct, and are frequently united by earlier or stronger anchylosis with the ethmoid or palate bones, so as to adhere, at least in part, to either of these in dis- articulation of the skull, and thus to lay open the sinuses of the sphenoid. The anterior part of each looks forwards, and leaves a considerable round opening by which the sinus communicates with the nasal cavity; the lower and posterior part is of a triangular form, with the apex directed backwards. At the anterior and outer angle of the sphenoidal spongy bone is a small part which enters into the formation of the inner wall of the orbit, articulating in front with the ethmoid, behind with the sphenoid, above by a small angle with the frontal, and below with the orbital process of the palate bone. It is most frequently fused in the adult with the sphenoid or ethmoid, often, however, with the palate bone only, and sometimes it remains free. (See Cleland in Trans, of Roy. Soc. for 1862.) The GREAT WINGS, aim majores, project outwards and upwards from the sides of the body. The lower and back part of each, horizontal in direction, occupies the angle between the petrous and squamous portions of the temporal bone ; from its pointed extremity it sends downwards a short and sharp projection, the spinous process. The upper and fore part is vertical, and three-sided, lying between the cranial cavity, the orbit, and the temporal fossa. The cerebral surface of the great wing is concave, and forms pai-t of the middle fossa of the base of the cranium. The external surface (temporo- zygomatic) is divided by a ridge into an inferior part, which looks down- wards into the zygomatic fossa, and an elongated superior part, looking outwards, which forms a part of the temporal fossa. The anterior surface looks forwards and inwards, and consists of a quadrilateral orbital portion, which forms the back part of the external wall of the orbit, and of a smaller inferior portion which overhangs the pterygoid process, looks into the spheno- maxillary fossa, and is perforated by the foramen rotundum. Posteriorly, the cerebral and external surfaces are separated by the margins which articulate with the temporal and parietal bones ; anteriorly, the superior divisions of the external and anterior surfaces are separated by ths margin which articulates with the malar bone, while their inferior divisions come into contact with each other, and form the upper part of the posterior boundary of the pterygo-maxillary fissure ; internally, the cerebral and orbital surfaces come into contact at the outer border of the sphenoidal fissure ; and superiorly, all three surfaces abut against the triangular area which articulates with the frontal bone. The SMALL WINGS, aloe m.inores, or wings of Ingrassias, extend nearly horizontally outwards from the fore part of the superior surface of the body. The extremity of each is slender and pointed, and comes very close to, but not into actual contact with the great wing. The superior surface forms part of the anterior fossa of the base of the cranium, the infeiior overhangs the sphenoidal fissure and the back of the orbit. The anterior border, thin and serrated, passes directly outwards, and ai-ticulates with the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The posterior border is prominent and free, and forms tlie boundary between the anterior and middle cranial fossM : it is pierced at its base by the optic foramen, and immedhitcly beyond that projects