MUSCLES OF THE PERINiEUM. 2G-1 The transversus perincei muscle" arises from tlie inner surface of the pubic arch, near the ischial tuberosity, and is directed obliquely forwards and inwards to unite with the muscle of the opposite side, as well as with the sphincter ani and bulbo-cavemosus at the central point of the perinieum. It lies immediately in front of the Une where the perinceal dips back to join the sub-pvibic fascia. It is sometimes absent, and at other times one or more small muscular slips are found lying on the same plane with it, in front or behind. The ischio-cavernosus, or erector penis muscle, embracing the crus penis, arises from the inner part of the tuber ischii, behind the extremity of the crus penis, and from the pubic arch along the inner and outer sides of the crus. From this origin the fleshy fibres are directed forwards to a tendinous expansion which is spread over the lower surface of the crus penis, and is inserted into the under and outer surfaces of that body towards the fore part. This muscle serves to compress the crus penis, with which its tendinous fibres an; blended, and thus it contributes to produce, or at least to maintain, the erection of the penis. The muscles of the two sides have been described by Krause as in some cases con- nected by a thin tendinous expansion, which, according to that anatomist, extends along the outer side of the penis over the dorsal surface of the organ, and at the same time over the vessels lying upon it (Mliller's Archiv, 1832): but this connection between the muscles has been in vain sought for by Theile and by Kobelt (Die miinn- lichen und weiblichen Wollust-Organe, 1844). By Houston there have also been described (Dublin Hosp. Eeports, vol. v.), under the name of compressores venoe- dorsalis penis, two slips of muscle, separated from the erectores penis on each side by an interval, though apparently belonging to them. They are said to arise from the pubic arch, above the origin of the erector muscles and the crura of the penis, and, passing upwards and forwards, are inserted above the dorsal vein, by joining each other in the middle line. These muscles, which are well developed in the dog and several other animals, are by no means constant in the human subject. The bulho-cavernosus, accelerator urinse, or ejaculator seminis, may be considered as a single muscle, consisting of two symmetrical parts. The fleshy fibres of the muscle take origin behind from the central tendon of the j)erinEeum, and from a median tendinous raphe' interposed between the two halves of the muscle. The larger number of the fibres are directed round the bulb and the adjoining part of the corpus spongiosum urethrre, and join above that body with those from the opposite side by a strong aponeurosis. At the fore part, a portion of the muscle passes over the sides of the corpus cavernosum, and is attached to that body in front of the erector penis : from its insertion a tendinous ofl'set is said to be prolonged over the dorsal vessels of the penis (Kobelt). The posterior fibres, shorter than the anterior, are inserted into the front of the triangular ligament. The fibres which invest the most prominent part of the bulb are more or less dis- tinct from those contiguous to them, and have been described by Kobelt as forming a separate muscle, to which he has given the name comjpressor hemisphwrhlm bidbi. The fibres of this muscular slip are connected by a small tendon, above the uretlu'a, with the corresponding part of the opposite side. - This muscle compresses the bulb and the adjoining part of the corpus spongiosum of the urethra, so as to evacuate fluid lodged in the canal, as well as to increase the turgcscence of the glans during erection. The deep transversus im-inm muscle is a thin rather inconstant fasciculus, which, arising from the margin of the pubic arch, is directed inwards and