FLEXOR MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 193 At its scapular origin the muscle is covered by the trapezius, in the middle of its course by the sterno-mastoid, and at its upper part by the platysma; it crosses the scaleni muscles, the cervical nerves, the sheath of the common carotid artery and jugular vein, and the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles. The muscle occasionally is attached to the clavicle instead of the scapula, arising from the former bone about its middle, and in such a case the posterior belly is absent. One instance has been recorded (U. Quain) in which the posterior belly alone was present, and was connected to the hyoid bone by a band of fascia. The muscle has likewise been observed double, one slip being attached to the clavicle and the other to the normal place of origin on the scapula. Actions.—While the sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid muscles act only as depressors of the hyoid bone, and the sterno-thyroid as a depressor of the larynx, the sterno-thyroid muscle, being a direct depressor of the thyroid cartilage, may draw down the hyoid bone Avhcn it acts in conjunction with the thyro-hyoid : the latter muscle elevates the larj'nx when the hyoid bone is fixed. In the act of swallowing, the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage pass suddenly upwards and forwards, and their natural position is restored by the action of the muscles under consideration, the bone moving in the direction of the omo-hyoid muscles. In the utterance of low notes the larynx and hyoid bone descend below the natural level, in the direction in which the sternal muscles pull; while in the utterance of high notes there is little elevation of the hyoid bone, but the larjmx is raised by the action of the thyro-hyoid muscles. PLEXOR MUSCLES OF THE NECK. The sterno-cleido-mastoid or sterno-mastoid muscle is attached inferiorly in two parts to the anterior surface of the sternum and the inner third of the clavicle. The sternal attachment is thick and rounded, tendinous in front and fleshy behind. The clavicular portion, separated from the sternal by a narrow interval, is flat, and is composed of fleshy and tendinous fibres. Those two portions become blended together about the middle of the neck into a thick and prominent muscle, which, extending upwards and back- wards, is attached superiorly to the anterior border and external surface of the mastoid process, and from thence backwards into a rough ridge of the temporal, and by a thin aponeurosis into the outer part of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. This muscle is covered for more than the middle three-fifths of its extent by the platysma. It is also crossed by the external jugular vein, and by the ascending superficial branches of the ceiwical plexus of nerves. It rests on part of the stemo-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and crosses the omo-hyoid muscle; in the middle part of the neck it covers the cervical plexus and the great cervical vessels, and in the upper part, the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles : it is pierced by the spinal accessory nerve. The sterno-cleido-mastoid is occasionally described as two muscles, under the names sterno-mastoid and cleido-mastoid. Normally, the fibres of the clavicular part run upwards for some distance internally to those of the sternal part before finally blending with them. The muscle varies much in breadth at the lower end, the variation being due altogether to the clavicular part, which is sometimes as narrow as the sternal tendon, while in other instances it extends for three inches along the clavicle. This part of the muscle may likewise, when broader than usual, be divided into several slips separated by intervals near the clavicle. A band of muscular fibres has, in a few instances, been found reaching from Ihe trapezius to this muscle over the subclavian artery; and the margins of the two muscles have been observed in contact. In animals without a clavicle the cleido-mastoid muscle is continued into the clavicular part of the great pectoral muscle, thus forming a mastoido-humeral muscle. The scalenus anticus muscle is attached superiorly to the anterior 0