240. DORSAL MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. thence obliquely upwards and backwards, increasing somewhat as it ascends, and is inserted into a groove situated externally to the inferior curved lino of the occipital bone. The two oblique muscles, with the rectus major, form the sides of a small triangular space, in the area of which the posterior primary branch of the sub-occipital nerve and the vertebral artery will be found. Actions.—Tho transverso-spinales muscles, including the complexus, are essentially extensors of the head and vertebral column ; and the movements produced by them vary according as the muscles of one side or both are in action, in a manner similar to that already pointed out in regard to the erector muscles. The interspinales and intertransversales muscles approximate the vertebrae between which they pass, and thus may act as extensors and lateral flexors respectively of the portion of the vertebral column in which they are situated. Of the four muscles last described, two—the rectus minor and superior oblique— act principally by drawing the head backwards, that being the chief movement allowed between the atlas and occipital bone; while the principal action of the rectus posticus major and the inferior oblique, when acting on one side, is to rotate the atlas and skull upon the axis. DoKSAL AND LiTMBAE, Fasci^s;.—Under the name of lumbar fascia or a23oneurosis it has been customary to describe three layers of strong fibrous substance sheathing the erector spinse and quadratus lumborimi muscles. The deeper parts of this structure, to which by some the name of lumbar fascia is restricted, will be described along with the abdominal muscles, with which they are chiefly connected. The superficial or x)osterior layer is that through which the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior are attached to the spines of the dorsal, lumbar and sacral vertebrse and to the crest of the ilium. This layer, which is of considerable strength, extends outwards beyond the origin of the latissimus and serratus inferior, and being closely united with the middle layer, binds down firmly the erectores spinse muscles : it is by some described as the lower part of the vertebral aponeu- rosis, with which it is continuous, by others it has been named the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi. The vertebral aponeurosis, strictly so called, is situated, on the same plane as the serratus posticus inferior, and consists of a thin lamella which sepa- rates the muscles belonging to the shoulder and arm from those which support the spine and head. Its fibres are for the most part transverse ; some however are longitudinal. Above, it passes beneath the superior serratus ; below, it is connected with the tendons of the latissimus and inferior serratus muscles, and in being stretched from the spinous processes outwards across the vertebral groove, it helps to enclose the angular canal in which are lodged the long extensor muscles. Muscles of the Thokax. The muscles of the thoracic waU are the inter-costales, levatores costarum, subcostales and triangularis sterni, and along with these the diaphi-agm mter- veniug between the thorax and abdomen may conveniently be grouped. The intercostal viuscles consist of two thin layers of oblique short muscular fibres filling up the inter-costal spaces: these layers are named respectively the external and internal muscles. The external intercostal m.uscles are formed of muscular fibres, with some tendinous fibres intermixed, directed obUquely downwards and forwards from one xib to another. Theix- extent for the most part is from the