VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 10 extremity termed the head, and a narrower lower part or neck. It presents ui iront a smootli surface for articulation with the atlas, and behind, a smootn groove to receive the transverse Ugament of the atlas. The study ' Fig. 7. Fig. 7.—The Axis Vertebra, i A, seen from above and behind ; B, seen from the right side. 1, the body; 4, the vertebral ring or foramen ; 5, the spinous process, bifid and very large ; 6, the transverse process; 7, the superior articulating process; 7', the inferior oblique articu- lating process ; 1* in A, is placed at the side of the odontoid process; in B, in front of it, marking the smooth surface of articulation with the anterior arch of the atlas. of development appears to show that the odontoid process is in reality the body of the atlas anomalously connected with the vertebra dentata. The superior articular surfaces, placed, like those of the atlas, in front of the intervertebral groove, lie on the sides of the base of the odontoid process, partly on the body and partly on the arch of the vertebra. These surfaces look upwards and slightly outwards, and are of considerable size ; they receive the weight of the head transmitted through the lateral masses of the atlas. The inferior articulating processes, separated by a notch from the body, are similar in form and position to those of the succeeding vertebrse. The spinous process is very large, rough, and deeply bifid, affording attachment to several muscles, and is grooved on its inferior surface. The plates which support it are of proportionate size and strength. The transverse jjrocesses are short, and are scarcely grooved or bifurcated. The foramen at the root of each is inclined obhquely downwards and inwards. THE FIXED OR UNITED VERTEBEiE. THE SACRUM. The sacrum (os sacrum) is placed below the last lumbar vertebra, above the coccyx, and between the ossa innominata, and forms the upper and back part of the pelvis. It consists in early life of five vertebrae, which in the adult are united into one bone. The first of the five is the largest vertebra in the column ; those which foUow become rapidly smaller, and the fifth is rudimentary. Hence the sacmm is massive above and slender below, and is triangular in general form, with its base directed upwards. It is concave and smooth in front, convex and uneven behind. The direction of its surfaces is very obHque, its pelvic aspect looking downwards and forwards, and forming at the place where it meets with the last lumbar vertebra the projection termed promontory. It presents for consideration a pelvic, a dorsal, and two lateral surfaces, a base and an apex, together with the sacral portion of the spinal canal. The pelvic surface is concave from above downwards, and slightly so from side to side. It is marked across the middle by four transverse lines or