MUSCLES OF THE HAND. 225 tlio common extensor through a compartment of the annular ligament, comes in contact with the tendon from that muscle destined for the index finger, and miitea with it to form the expansion already described. Fig. 185.—Transverse Section op iHERiani Hand between tub Carpds and Meta- carpus, snowma the anterior Annular Ligament op the Carpus, and the places OF THE VARIOUS EXTENSOR AND FlEXOR TeN- DONS, SEEN FROM TUB DISTAL SIDE. i This figure is also designed to show the transverse arch formed by the second row of ciirpal bones. a, metacarpal articular surface of the trapezium for the metacarpal bone of the thumb ; a', palmar ridge of the trapezium ; i, articular surface of the trape- zoid bone for the second metacarpal bone ; c, the surfiice of the os magnum for the middle metacarpal; d, the surface of the unciform for the fourth, and e, that for the fifth metacarpal bone; e', unciform process ; between a' and e', the cut edge of the annular ligament is represented, the ends attached to the projecting parts of these bones, and sending another process towards the trapezium at 11, by which the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis is enclosed in the groove of the trapezium ; 1, tendon of extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis; 2, extensor primi internodii; 3, extensor secundi internodii ; 4, extensor indicia ; 5 and 6, long and short radial extensors of the carpus ; 7, the four divisions of the tendon of the common extensor of the fingers, the middle two belong to the third and fourth fingers ; 8, extensor minimi digiti; 9, extensor carpi ulnaris ; 10, flexor carpi radialis ; 11, flexor longus pollicis ; 12, marks a point between the four divisions of the flexor superficialis digitorum ; 13, the same of the flexor profundus; 14, the median nerve ; 15, points to the middle of the cut margin of the palmar aponeurosis stretched across the annular ligament; 16, the fibres of the palmaris brevis muscle j 17, cut surface of the muscles of the ball of the thumb ; 18, muscles of the little finger. Fig. 185. MUSCLES OF THE HAND. Besides the tendons of the long muscles and the lumbricales already described, there are placed in the hand one superficial muscle called palmaris brevis, the short muscles of the thumb and little finger, and the interossei muscles. The palmwris brevis is a thin flat subcutaneous muscle, which arises from the inner margin of the palmar fascia and annular ligament; its fibres pro- ceed transversely inwards, and are inserted into the skin along the inner border of the palm. The palmaris brevis crosses the muscles of the little finger and covers the ulnar artery and nerve. It is subject to considerable variation in its breadth and thickness consisting sometimes of only a few scattered fibres. ' Muscles of the Thumb.—The fleshy mass which forms the thenar prominence, or ball of the thumb, consists of four muscles. The abductor pollicis (abductor brevis pollicis,—Alb.), superficial and flat, arises from the annular ligament and from the ridge of the os trapezium and, proceeding outwards and forwards, is inserted by a tendon into the radial border of the first phalanx of the thumb at its base. The opponens pollicis, placed behind the abductor, arises from the annular ligament and from the os trapezium and its ridge, and is inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bono of the thumb at the radi-il border.