293 FASCIA LATA. FEMORAL SHEATH. ci/orm process, which crosses the surface of the infmidibuliform sheath of the femoral vessels. This margin in the middle of its extent is continued into looser tissue, but superiorly and inferiorly it ends in two more distinct incurved extremities, the superior and inferior cornua. The inferior comu, the most completely defined part of the margin, lies in the angle between the internal saphenous and the femoral vein, below their junction; while the superior comu forms a larger curve, and is bound down to the fascia of the thigh a little below and in front of Gimbemat's ligament. It is customary to call the parts of the fascia lata which are placed external and internal to the saphenous opening the iliac and pubic portions. The iliac portion is intimately connected above with Poupart's ligament, as well as with the fascia transversalis and deep layer of the superficial fascia of the abdomen, and internally forms the falciform margin of the saphenous opening ; the pubic portion, attached superiorly to the pectineal line, passes on its outer side deeply behind the sheath of the vessels, with which it is connected, and is continued into the fasciae between the muscles. In the natural state, the saphenous opening is filled up by the cribriform fascia, a thin and somewhat irregular membrane which is continuous exter- nally with the falciform margin of the opening, and is attached internally to the surface of the pubic portion of the fascia lata : it' receives its name from being perforated by numerous small blood-vessels and by the superficial lymphatics of the thigh as they pass in to join the deep group. The fascia lata of the thigh has various deep processes. One of these, leaving the main fascia at the insertion of the tensor vaginse femoris muscle, passes upwards within that muscle as a strong flat band on the surface of the vastus extemus, and is attached superiorly round the origin of the rectus femoris, and to the tendinous arch at the insertion of the gluteus minimus muscle. Two processes, the external and internal intermuscular septa, bind the fascia to the femiu: in the lower part of the thigh : the external septum, situated between the vastus extemus muscle and the short head of the biceps, is inserted into the linea aspera from the lower border of the tendon of the gluteus maximus to the outer condyle of the bone : the internal septum, much thinner, is inserted into the femur between the vastus intemus and the adductor muscles. Sheaths of the Femoral Vessels.—The femoral vessels are surrounded by an investment of fascia, which in its upper part is particularly distinct, and receives the name of the crural sheath. This sheath, commencing at the deep crural arch, is continuous with the fascia transversalis and fascia iliaca. Its outer border descends in contact with the artery, while its inner border is inclined outwards from the margin of Gimbemat's ligament, and comes in contact with the vein at the distance of less than an inch lower down : the sheath is therefore funnel-shaped. It is divided into three compart- ments, separated by thin septa : the outermost contains the artery, the middle one the vein, and the innermost forms a space the, upper end of which corresponds to the crural ring, and which is occupied by a lymphatic gland and some fat; this compartment is interesting to the surgeon as being the passage by which femoral hernia descends, and on this account has been named the crural canal. Extending upwards from the opening for the femoral vessels in the adductor magnus muscle, is an aponeurotic membrane which consists of trans- verso fibres passing from the surface of the vastus intemus to the adductor magnus and adductor longus muscles. It becomes thinner as it ascends and it encloses between the muscles named a passage sometimes called