191 MUSCLES DEPRESSING TPIE HYOTD BONE. passes downwards and forwards, it is inserted aponenrotically into the pos- terior part of the soft palate, and meets its neighbour of the opposite side. In its upper part it is placed above the concave margin of the superior constrictor. The circumflexii^ or tensor palati arises from the navicular fossa at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, from the outer side of the Eustachian tube, from the spine of the sphenoid, and the edge of the tympanic plate of the temporal bone. It descends perpendicularly, resting on the internal pterygoid plate, between it and the internal pterygoid muscle, and ends in a tendon which, winding round the hamular process, lubricated by a bursa, extends horizontally inwards, and terminates in the forepart of the aponeu- rosis of the soft palate and the posterior border of the palate bone. Actions.—The muscles of the pharynx and soft palate are so arranged as to accomplish, in conjunction with those of the tongue and hyoid bone, the action of deglutition—that is to say, tlie propulsion of food into the oesophagus without any portion being permitted to pass into the nasal cavity or larynx. While the tongue near the fauces is thrown upwards and backwards by the stylo-glossi muscles, and the larynx is drawn upwards and forwards under it by muscles attached to the hyoid-bone, and by the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, so as to be both closed by the epiglottis and overlapped by the tongue, the palato-glossi muscles constrict the fauces and shut off the bolus from the mouth. The soft palate is raised and made tense by its superior muscles ; the palato-pharyngei, being approximated, nearly touch one another (the uvula lying in the small interval between them), and prevent the passage of the food towards the upper part of the pharynx or the posterior nares, while at the same time they form an inclined surface for its guidance into the lower part of the pharynx. The food being thus thrown into the grasp of the constrictors of the phai7nx, those muscles contract from above downwards and force it into the tube of the gullet below. MUSCLES DBPEESSING THE HYOID BONE. The sterno-hyoid muscle, a flat band of longitudinal fibres, arises variously, from the sternum and the posterior stemo-clavicular ligament, from the clavicle and that ligament, or from the clavicle only, and occa- sionally, to a small extent, from the cartilage of the first rib. It is inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone. The muscle is concealed below by the sternum and the stemo-mastoid, higher up by the skin and fascia only; it lies on the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles, which it partly covers. The inner border approaches that of the corre- sponding muscle towards the middle of its extent, but is separated from it by a slight interval superiorly, and by a larger interval near the sternum; the outer margin is in contact with the omo-hyoid near the os hyoides. The muscular fibres are, in many cases, interrupted by a transverse tendinous intersection. The sterno-thyroid, broader and shorter than the preceding muscle, behind ■which it lies, arises from the thoracic surface of the first bone of the sternum lower down and more internally than the sterno-hyoid muscle, and ascends' diverging a little from its fellow, to be inserted into the oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. The greater part of its anterior surface is concealed by the sternum and (he sterno- hyoid muscle as well as by the stemo-mastoid. By its deep surfocc it rests on the innominate vem, the lower part of the common carotid artery, the trachea, and the thyroid body The mncr margin is contiguous to the muscle of the other side in mat Sen "^'^^^ '""^ T^^^^ °^ ^-^-0^°-^ - This muscle is often partly crossed by transverse or oblique tendinous lines. At