ARTICULATIONS OF THE RIBS. 129 the head of the rib to the intervertebral substance, and divides the articu- lation into two parts, each Uned by a separate synovial membrane. The Fig. 117. Fig. 117.—View of a part op the Vertebral Column, including the 6Tn, Cth, 7th, 8tii, and 9tii Dorsal Vertebr.e, with a part OP TDK 6th, 7th, and Stu Ribs, prom the right side and FRONT. J The 5th and 9th ribs have been removed so as to show the articular surfaces of the vertebris eorrespondiug to them ; 1 to 2, the anterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrro; at X X , a portion of the ligament is removed, so as to expose the inter- vertebral plate between the 8th and 9th veitebne, in which the diagonal fibres of the outermost ligamentous plates are represented ; 3 and 4, the heads of the 6 th and 7th ribs, from which the stellate or anterior costo- central ligaments are seen spreading over the two adjacent vei-tebral bodies and inteiTertebral substance ; 5, the head of the 8th rib, from which the stellate ligament has been removed, so as to expose the upper and lower synovial cavities, and between them the intervertebral or deep costo-central ligament; 6, lower, and 6', upper facet of the costo-central articulation ; 7, posterior costo-transverse ligament; 7', the costo-transverse synovial cavity ; 7", the costo-transverse articular facet of the 5th vertebra ; 8, the anterior or superior costo-transverse ligament; 9, superior articular process of the 5th vertebra ; 9', inferior of the 9th. ligament does not exist in the articulations of the first, eleventh, or twelfth ribs, in consequence of those ribs being each, attached to only one vertebral body by a single synovial joint. Fig. 118. Pig. 118.—Five Dorsal VERTEBRiB, with portions OP THE corresponding RibS. | 1 and 2 are placed on the laminre of the vertebrae, close to the interspinous ligaments ; 3, one of the liga- menta subflava, which are only in part seen, being covered to some extent by the lamina? of the vertebrae ; 4, anterior costo-transverse ligament; 5, posterior costo-transverse ligament. The COSTO-TRANSVERSE ARTICULATION Uuite.? the tubercle and neck of the rib to the cor- responding transverse process by a synovial joint and ligaments, and by a longer ligament to the transverse process above. The posterior costo-i/ransverse ligament is a distinct band extending out- wards from the posterior part of the summit of the transverse process to the rough external part of the tubercle of the rib. K