DIVISION I. SYSTEMATIC OE DESCEIPTIVE ANATOMY. Systematic or Descriptive Anatomy embraces the consideration of the organs of the body in an order arranged according to their nature and con- nections. It is called Systematic in opposition to Topographic or Demon- strative Anatomy, in which the various dissimilar organs found in each region are described together, and which is particularly adapted for the study of the relative position of parts. The organs and parts of the body may be regarded from two distinct points of view, the Physiological and the MorphologicaL Viewed in their physiological aspect, they form a series of instruments fitted for the accomplishment of particular purposes. Thus, for example, the bones form levers, which are moved by the muscles ; and the combinations of these in the hand are fitted for grasping, while those of the foot are adapted for walking. But considered apart from the functions of its organs, the human body, as well as all other organisms, exhibits a regular plan in its construction, to investigate the nature of which is the object of Morphological Anatomy. That plan cannot be competently examined except with the aids furnished by the study of Development and Comjjarative Anatomy. One of the most general facts connected with the plan of construction of the human body is its segmented nature, similar sets of parts being placed in succession, so that the line of their series forms the long axis of the body, and parts found in one segment or member of the series correspond, often very distinctly, to parts in other segments. The segmented plan is that on which are constructed not only vertebrate animals, or all those which are possessed of a vertebral column, but also the higher invertebrate classes. It is most inanifcstly displayed in the class articulata, in some of which nearly the whole body is composed of a chain of precisely similar segments ; while in others the segments are fused together in groups, so as to form more complicated structures. In the human body the appearance of segmentation is seen most con- spicuously in the osseous system; it likewise pervades the nervous system, and is observable in some other structures. The trunk of the body is formed by a series of segments, indistinguishably blended together in some of the systems, but distinct in others; while the liinbs are rather to be regarded as lateral outgrowths connected with a certain number of segments. Such segments of the body may be named vertebral segments, or, as Goodsir has suggested, somatomes; and to distinguish sections of the skeleton, the nervous, muscular, or other systems, the terms sclerotome, neurotome, mijotome, &c., proposed by the same author, may sometimes be con- veniently employed. u