158 ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. femur, the inferior limits of the patellar surface are quite distinguishable; the line ■which separates this surface from the outer tibial joint passing directly between it and the condyle, and that which separates it from the inner joint being continued backwards, so as to cut off from the rest of the inner condyle a narrow tract at the side of the inter-condyloid fossa. Tlie movement of the patella on the femur is one partly of gliding, partly of coaptation. This is illustrated by a careful examination of the articular surface of the patella, which is not uniformly curved from above downwards, as it would be, were the movement one of gliding only, but exhibits on each side of the vertical ridge three very slightly depressed surfaces, separated by two slight transverse elevations, and along the inner margin a seventh area, upon which the transverse lines do not encroach (Goodsir). When the knee is extended, and the patella drawn upwards by the extensor muscles, the two inferior facets of the patella are in contact with the upper margin of the femoral surface; in semiflexion the middle facets only are in contact with the femur; in greater flexion, the superior parts of the patella are in contact with the lower part of the femoral surface; and in extreme flexion the patella, which has been gradually turned outwards by the increasing prominence of the inner condyle, rests by its innermost facet on the inter-condyloid margin of that condyle. If the condyles of the femur be examined as they rest upon the tibia in the flexed position of the joint, it will be seen that the inner condyle is more elongated than the outer, and that the portion of the inner condyle which lies in front of the anterior limit of the external condyle inclines obliquely outwards, to reach the patellar surface. In the movement of extension the condyles move parallel to one another, until complete extension is nearly reached, and then, the anterior part of the rolling surface of the external condyle having already come in contact with the tibia, the inner condyle continues to glide backwards, and brings its oblique anterior part into contact with the tibia, so that the bone is rotated inwards on the tibia, and over-extension is prevented, not merely by the tightness of the ligaments, but by the femur being pressed up against the tibial spine. In complete extension the lateral ligaments and the external cracial ligament are tight, while the posterior crucial ligament is relaxed; in flexion the external lateral and external crucial ligaments become relaxed, and the posterior crucial ligament is tightened. In extension of the joint no rotation of the leg is possible; in the flexed condition a considerable amount is allowed. When the weight of the body keeps the bones in their position in the extended knee, the extensor muscles are relaxed, the patella drops down from its position in contact with the femur, and the ligamentum mucosum then comes into play, supporting the synovial membrane and fat below the patella. (See Meyer, op. cit.; Goodsir, in "Edin. Med. Journ.," 1855, and "Proceedings of Roy. Soc. of Edin.," 1858; Langer, " Sitzungsber. d. Acad, der Wissensch. Wien," 1858; Henke, "Zeitschr. fiir rat. Med.," v. viii., 1859.) ARTICULATIONS OF THE LEG AND ANKLE. Pbboneo-tibial Articulations.—The tibia and fibula are connected at their tipper and lower extremities by synovial articulation, and their shafts are united by an interosseous membrane. Tbo superior extremities of the bones present two flat oval articular surfaces, retained in close contact by an anterior and a posterior superior tihio-fibular ligament, both of which pass upwards and inwards from the head of the fibula to the external tuberosity of the tibia. Tbe synovial membrane which lines this joint not unfrequently communicates posteriorly with that of the knee. The interosseous membrane or ligament, which connects the shafts ot the tibia and fibula, passes between the external ridge of the tibia and the ridge on tbe inner surface of the fibula, and is composed for the most part of parallel fibres running outwards and downwards, only a few fibres crossing them in a different direction. The membrane is broader above than below, and presents superiorly an elongated opening for the transmission of the anterior tibial vessels, and inferiorly a small aperture for the passage of the anterior branches of the peroneal vessels.