BONES OF THE HEAD. 72 between several bones of the skull and vertebrsB in man and animals is generally ad- mitted by scientific anatomists, and that the difficulties which oppose the enunciation of clearer views on the serial relations of the cranial elements arise in great measure from deficient information and want of agreement among anatomists as to individual points in the correspondence of those elements throughout the animal series. (See, in addition to the works previously referred to, Huxley, " Elements of Comparative Anatomy," 1864 ; Clcland, " On the Relations of the Vomer," &c., Trans. Hoy. Soc. 1862; Spix, " Cephalogenesis," 1815; Von Baer, " Entwickelungsgesch. der Thiere," 1828—37 ; Hallman, "Die Vergleich. Anat. des Schlafenbeins," 1837; B ojauus in Isis, 1818—1819.) THE VARIOUS FOKMS OF THE SKULL. I. Differences according to Age.—In the earlier stages of its development the posterior part of the skull bears a very large proportion to the anterior part; so much so, that in the second month of foetal life the line of the tentorium cerebelli is vertical to the ba.sis cranii, and divides the cranial cavity almost equally into two parts. At the time of birth the parietal region has reached its largest development in proportion to the occipital and frontal regions. The greatest frontal breadth is then smaller in pro- portion to that between the parietal eminences than afterwai-ds. In the first years of childhood the superior parts of the skull grow more rapidly than the base. Thus, in the frontal region, the upper part of the frontal bone grows more rapidly than its orbital processes, giving the prominent appearance of the frontal eminences peculiar to children. The face at birth is calculated as being scarcely an eighth of the bulk of the rest of the head, while in the adult it is at least a half (Proriep, " Characteristik des Kopfes nach dem Entwicklungsgesetz desselben"). In harmony with the growth of the face the lower part of the forehead is brought forward by elongation of the anterior cranial fossa, and on the appi'oach of adult age it becomes in the male still more prominent by the expansion of the frontal sinuses. The face becomes elongated in the progress of growth, partly by increased height of the nasal fossoe, partly by the growth of the teeth and the enlargement of the alveolar arches of the jaws. In old age the proportion of the face to the cranium is diminished by the loss of the teeth and absorption of the alveolar portions of the jaws. In consequence of this the upper jaw retreats, while in the lower jaw the same cause gives, especially when the mouth is closed, a greater seeming prominence to the chin. II. Sexual Differences.—The female skull is, in general, smaller, lighter, and smoother than that of the male; it is less marked by muscular prominences, and has also the frontal sinus less developed. The face is smaller in proportion to the cranium, the jaws narrower, and the frontal and occipital regions less capacious in proportion to the parietal. (Huschke.) The female skull resembles the formed skull of the boy more than that of the adult male ; but it must also be admitted that it is often impossible to determine the sex by the appearance or form of a skuU. HI. National Differences.—'fha.t characteristic forms of skull are presented by the various races of men has probably been long known, but was first distinctly pointed out by Camper. Subsequently the investigations of Blumenbach raised the study of those diflFerent forms to a recognised position in ethnology. The extent and constancy of the ethnical differences of skulls are matters open to discussion; but it must be allowed, that although many skulls are to be met with which fail to exhibit the characteristics of the race to which they belong, or which present peculiarities similar to those of nations considerably removed from them, yet not only are there certain forms of skull highly distinctive of the principal varieties of mankind, but the pre- vailing form in one nation is often very distinguishable from those found in nations inhabiting neighbouring countries. Great differences occur with respect to size in the skulls of different nations. Among the smallest skulls may be mentioned those of the Hindoo and ancient Peruvian ; among the most massive those of the Scandi- navian, the Caffre, and the Maori. Various characters are found belonging to the skulls of rude tribes, which serve to distinguish them from those of civilised nations. Among those characters may be mentioned,—a depressed appearance between the middle line of the calvarium and the temporal ridge, both of which stand out promi- nently, making the roof of the skull seem like a house top; a greater width of the zygomatic arches, and of the anterior nares; greater strength of the jaw8 and teeth,