175 MUSCLES OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. and must aid it in drawing down the integument of the forehead; but it probably acta also as an opponent to the compressor naris muscle. The compressor nans, acting alon"' with its fellow of the other side, depresses the cartilaginous part of the nose, and to some extent also compresses the alaj together. The actions of the other muscles are sufficiently indicated by their names; the dilatation of the alas is perceptible in natural inspiration, and is well marked in dyspnoea. Muscles of tub Lips and Mouth.—ArDiincl the orifice of the mouth ftro situated an orbicular muscle with concentric fibres, and numerous other muscles, whose fibres converge towards the aperture, viz., superiorly the common elevator of the lip and nose already described, the proper elevator of the upper lip, the elevator of the angle of the mouth and the zygomatic muscles, laterally the risorius and buccinator muscles, and, inferiorly, the depressor of the angle of the mouth and that of the lower lip ; and lastly, acting indirectly on the lower lip, the levator menti. The orbicularis oris, or sphincter oris, consists of a labial or inner, and a facial or peripheral part. The labial or marginal portion reaches outwards from the oral aperture as far as the red part of the lip, and forms a slightly convex fasciculus of pale fine fibres closely applied to each other. Its fibres are free from bony attachment, and are traceable from one lip to another round the corner of the mouth. The facial portion, thinner and wider than the other, blends by its outer border with the several muscles that con- verge to the mouth from the contiguous parts of the face, and is more particularly stretched outwards by its attachment to the buccinator musclOj the fibres of which seem almost to be continuous with the deeper part of the orbicularis. Besides those fibres it has others that are attached to the subjacent cartilage and bone ; viz., in the upper lip two bundles for each half ; and in the lower lip one for each. In the upper lip one of the fleshy slips (accessorius orbicularis superioris) is thin and weak, and is attached opposite the incisor teeth, close to the alveolar edge of the upper jaw-bone ; and the other, thicker and pointed, is fixed to the septum of the nose. In the lower lip the reinforcing fasciculus (accessorius orbicularis inferioris) arises from the surface of the lower jaw, near the root of the canine tooth, and external to the levator labii inferioris. From these points of attach- ment the fibres are directed outwards towards the angle of the mouth and blend with the rest. To the inner part of the orbicularis oris muscle the skin of the lips is closely con- nected, whilst over the outer part fatty tissue is interposed between them. The deep surface is in contact with the mucous membrane and the labial glands, as well as with the coronary arterial arch in each lip. The levator labii superioris arises immediately above the infra-orbital foramen, close to the lower border of the orbit, from the superior maxUlary and malar bones, and passes downwards and a little inwards to be blended •with the orbicularis and other muscular fibres in the upper Up. At its origin this muscle is overlapped by the orbicularis palpebrarum, but its lower part is subcutaneous; it partly conceals the levator anguli oris, and the com- pressor naris, and beneath it the infra-orbital vessels and nerve emerge from the canal of that name. The levator anguli oris, or musculus caninus, arises in the canine fossa immediately below the infra-orbital foramen, inclines downwards and slightly outwards, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth. At its origin this muscle is concealed by the elevator of the upper lip; its anterior