BONES OF THE HEAD. 86 beyond the inner, forming a thin scale with tho rough surface looking inwards and overlapping the corresponding bevelled edge of the parietal bone. Bnt in front the border is thicker, looks directly forwards, and is serrated for articulation with the great wing of the sphenoid bone. The outer surface is in its greatest extent vertical, with a slight con- vexity, and forms part of the temporal fossa. From its lowest part a long process, the zygoma, takes origin. The zygoma, or zygomatic process, is at its base of considerable breadth, and projects outwards. It then becomes narrower, and is twisted on itself so as to present an outer and inner surface, and a sharp upper and lower border. The superior margin is the thinnest, and is prolonged furthest forwards. The bevelled extremity is serrated, and articulates with the malar bone. At its base the zygomatic process presents two roots. The anterior root is a broad convex ridge, directed inwards. The posterior root passes backwards, and is divided into two parts, of which one turns inwards in front of the meatus externus, while the other, gradually subsiding, is continued backwards over that opening, and marks behind it the line of union of the squamous and mastoid portions of the bone. At the point of division of the two roots is a slight tubercle, which gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the lower jaw. Between them is the glenoid fossa, a depression elongated from without inwards, and which, together with a cylindrical elevation on the anterior root of the zygoma in front of it, is coated with cartilage, and forms the articular surface for the joint with the lower jaw. The fissure of Glaser separates this articular part of the glenoid fossa from the remaining part behind, which is formed by the tympanic plate of the petrous division of the temporal bone and lodges a portion of the parotid gland. Fig. 33. —The Eight Tem- poral Bone from the innkr side. i The indications -where marked are the same as in the preceding figure. 11, the inner or cerebral surface of the squamous portion; 11 x , the squamous edge ; 12, inner surface of the mastoid portion ; 13, the sigmoid groove of the lateral sinus— the figure is placed at its upper part, and close to the mastoid foramen ; 14, the apex of the petrous bone; 15, the meatus auditorius internus; 16, the shelf of bone covering the aqueduct of the vestibule ; 17, is above the aqueduct of the cochlea ; 18, the superior petrosal groove ; 19, the eminence of the supe- rior semicircular canal ; W, the hiatus Fallopii. The MASTOID PORTION is rough externally for the attachment of muscles, and is prolonged downwards behind the aperture of the ear into a nipple- shaped projectfon—the mastoid process. This process forms the outer wall of a deep groove on its inner side, the digastric fossa, which gives attachment to the