GENEKAL CONSIDERATIONS ON THE TEXTURES. iv " organic systems" to designate the textures taken in this point of view, and the term has been very generally employed by succeeding writers. Of the tissues or organic systems enumerated, some are found in nearly every organ ; such is the case with the connective tissue, which serves as a binding material to hold together the other tissues which go to form an organ ; the vessels, which convey fluids for the nutrition of the other textures, and the nerves, which establish a mutual dependence among different organs, imparting to them sensibility, and governing their move- ments. These were named by Bichat the " general systems." Others again, as the cartilaginoiis and osseous, being confined to a limited num- ber or to a particular class of organs, he named " particular systems." Lastly, there are some tissues of such limited occurrence that it has appeared more convenient to leave them out of the general enumeration altogether, and to defer the consideration of them until the particular organs in which they are found come to be treated of. Accordingly, the tissues peculiar to the crystalline lens, the teeth, and some other parts, though equally independent textures with those above enumerated, are for the reason assigned not to be described in this part of the work. Structural Elements.—It is further to be observed, that the tissues above enumerated are by no means to be regarded as simple structural elements ; on "the contrary, many of them are complex in constitution, being made up of several more simple tissues. The blood-vessels, for instance, are com- posed of several coats of difi"erent structure, and some of these coats consist of more than one tissue. They are properly rather organs than textures, although they are here included with the latter in order that their general structure and properties may be considered apart from their local distribution ; but indeed it may be remarked, that the distinction between textures and organs has not in general been strictly attended to by anatomists. The same remark applies to mucous membrane and the tissue of the glands, which structures, as commonly understood, are highly complex. Were we to separate every tissue into the simplest parts which possessed assignable form, we should resolve the whole into a very few constructive elements ; and, having regard to form merely, and not to difference of chemical constitution, we might reduce these elements to the following, viz.—1. simple, fibre; 2. homogemeous membrane, either spread out or forming the walls of tubes or cells ; and 3, globules or granules, varying in diameter from the ^2^00*^ *° ^o'o 0*^ of These, with a quantity of amorphous matter, homogeneous or molecular, might be said, by their varied combinations, to make up the different kinds of structure which we recognise in the tissues ; and if we take into account that the chemical nature of these formative elements and of the amorphous matter may vary, it will be readily conceived that extremely diversified combinations may be produced. PHYSICAL PROPERTIES. The animal tissues like other forms of matter are endowed with various physical properties, such as consistency, density, colour, and the like. Of these the most interesting to the Physiologist is the property of imbibmg fluids, and of permitting fluids to pass through their substance, which is essentially connected with some of the most important phenomena that