259 FASCIiE OF THE PERINiEUM. ture, and forms in cases of obliquo hernia one of tlie coverings of the tumour. The fascia iliaca, more limited in extent, but stronger than the fascia transvcrsalis, lines the back part of the abdominal cavity, and covers not only tlie muscle from which it derives its name, but also the psoas. The densest portion of its fibres is stretched transversely from the iliac crest, over the margin of the psoas muscle to the brim of the pelvis, where it is intimately blended with the periosteum. Superiorly, this membrane, be- coming much weaker, is connected internally with the sacrum, and by smixU and distinct processes with the intervertebral substances and the neighbouring margins of the lumbar vertebras ; and finally it becomes blended Avith the ftiscia which covers the diaphragm and forms the liga- mentum arcuatum externum. The external iliac vessels Ue in front of this part of the iliac fascia. To the outer side of those vessels, the fascia tui-ns forwards to be connected with Poupart's ligament and the fascia transvcrsalis, as already described ; to the inner side of the femoral vein it is attached to the ilio-pectineal line, where also the fascia lata, being traced upwards, is foimd to terminate ; and between these two points, namely, behind the femoral vessels, it continues downwards over the margin of the pelvis, forming the back part of the sheath of those vessels, in the same manner as its fore part is formed by the fascia transvcrsalis. The psoas parvus is closely connected with the iliac fascia, by means of an exiDansion of its tendon. At the back part of the abdomen is the aponeurosis of the quadratus lumborum muscle, forming the anterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis; this, together with the posterior and middle layers, has been already described along with the transvcrsalis muscle, with the aponeurotic origin of which they are all connected. FASCIiE or THE PERINiEUM. As a knowledge of the disposition of the fasciae of the perinseum and pelvis assists the comprehension of the attachments and relations of the muscles of those regions, the fasciae will here be first described. Superficial Fascia.—In the posterior half of the perinseum the sub- cutaneous fat is continued deeply into the ischio-rectal fossa, the pyramidal space intervening between the obturator fascia and the levator ani muscle. In the anterior half of the perinseum, beneath the subcutaneous fat, is placed a special layer of fascia, continuous with the dartos, the j^roj^er superficial perineal fascia, sometimes called fascia of Colics. This fascia is bound down on each side to the margm of the pubic arch as far back as the ischial tuber- osity ; posteriorly, along a line from the ischial tuberosity to the central point of the perinseum, it turns round the posterior margin of the trans- versus perinnei muscle to join the sub-pubic fascia, to be presently described. From its deep surface likewise, an incomplete septum in the middle line dips down to the urethra and passes forwards into the scrotum. It thus happens that air blown in beneath the proper perinaaal fascia on one side passes forwards and distends the scrotum to a certain extent on that side; it may then penetrate to the other also, and if injected with suflicient force may reach the front of the abdomen and travel upwards beneath the super- ficial fascia ; but it neither passes backwards to the posterior half of the permreum nor down upon the thighs. The same course is followed by urine or matter extravaaated beneath the proper perinceal fascia. s 2