279 ANTERIOR JIUSCLES OF THE LEG. The ilio-psoas muscle, the flexor of the hip-joint, flexes the thigh on the body, or the body on the thigh, according as cither of these is the most fixed. The pectineus is partly a flexor and partly an adductor. The adductores magmis, longus and brevis adduct the thigh, and along with their opponents the gluteus medius and minimus, and with the gluteus maximus, balance the body on the femur in walking. The adductor muscles and ilio-psoas, together with the pectineus, being all inserted at the back part of the femur, tend to rotate the thigh outwards at the same time that they produce their adducting and flexing actions. The advantage of this prepon- derance of rotators outwards over rotators inwards becomes apparent by reference to the movements which take place in walking. When a step is taken, the pelvis is drawn forwards on that side on which the foot has been advanced, which involves a considerable rotation of the pelvis outwards at the other hip-joint, by the action of the muscles of the opposite limb. The quadriceps extensor femoris extends the knee-joint, but, as already mentioned with regard to the gluteus maximus, its action is not requisite for the maintenance of the erect attitude, the knee-joint remaining in complete extension without muscular aid while the foot is firmly planted on the ground. This may be tested by the fact that the patella of a person standing with the knee extended will be found to lie quite loosely, but will become at once fixed when it is attempted to lift the foot. The rectus femoris, sartorius, gracilis, semitendinosus, semimembranosus, and long head of the biceps act on both the hip and knee-joints. The sartorius produces the flexion of the hip and knee-joints, accompanied by abduction, which occurs in the posture assumed by the tailor in sitting, and the muscle derives its name from this circumstance. The rectus femoris flexes the hip and extends the knee; it acts wholly from its anterior head of origin when the thigh is fully extended, and the posterior head is alone tense when the thigh is bent. The Itarristring muscles extend the hip and flex the knee. It is to be observed, however, that in the ordinary movements of the body, the hip and knee-joints are flexed and extended together, and that therefore the joint on which those long muscles act must be determined by the other muscles which pass over either of those joints separately. The gracilis acts as an adductor on the hip-joint. The gracilis, semitendinosus, and sartorius muscles form the group of rotators inwards at the knee-joint; they act along with the popliteus in this respect to greatest advantage in the flexed state of the knee; but they likewise favour the commencement of flexion by undoing that rotation inwards of the femoral condyles on the tibia by which extension of the knee is completed. The sJiort head of the biceps is the only flexor of the knee, which passes over that joint alone. The whole of this muscle produces external rotation of the leg. The subcrureus in extension of the knee-joint probably raises the upper part of the synovial membrane, and prevents it from being pressed between the patella and femur. MUSCLES OF THE LEG AND FOOT. ANTERIOR REGION. Between the tibia and fibula, on the front of the leg, are placed four muscles—the tibialis anticus, extensor proprius pollicis, extensor longus digitorum, and peroueus tertius ; and on the dorsum of the foot one muscle only arises,—the extensor brevis digitorum. The tibialis avticus arises from the external tuberosity of the tibia, and about two-thirds of the outer surface of that bone ; from a small portion of the adjoining interosseous ligament; from the strong fascia of the leg ; and from an aponeurotic septum placed between it and the extensor loncrus digitorum. The tendon in which all the muscular fibres terminate before