HUMERUS. 79 tendon of the biceps muscle : this groove, commencing between the tuberosities, desceuds with an iucliuation inwards, and is bounded by two roufh rid"es, the external and most prominent of which gives attachment to the peotoralis major muscle, the internal or posterior to the latissimua dorsi and teres major. Towards the middle of the shaft, on the inner lateral line, is a rough linear mark ^j.^ where the coraco-brachialis muscle is inserted, and lower down there is a medullary foramen dii'ectod downwards into the interior of the bone. On the external part of the shaft, neai- its middle, in a line anteriorly with the external bicipital ridge, is a large, rough, and uneven surface, of a triangular shape, the impression of the deltoid muscle. Below this the external bicipital ridge is continued into a smooth elevation which, descending on the front of the shaft to the inferior extremity, separates an external from an internal surface, wliile at the sides two sharp edges, the external and internal supracondyloid ridges spring from the eminences of the same name and ascend for some distance, separating the anterior from the flat posterior surface. About the middle of the shaft externally, a broad depression, the musculospinal groove, passes downwards and forwards in a spiral direction, limited above by the deltoid impression and below by the external supracondyloid ridge, and lodges the musculo-spiral nerve and the accompanying artery. Fig. 70.—Right Humerus from behind. 1,3, 8, & 10, the same as in Fig. 69 ; 15, is placed above the olecranon fossa. ii IS The inferior extremity is much enlarged laterally, flattened from before backwards, and is curved slightly forwards. Projecting on either side are the external and internal supracondyloid eminences (the condyles of most authors, epicondyle and epAtrochlea of Chaussier), the internal of which is much more prominent than the external, and is slightly inclined backwards. The inferior articular surface, fitting by peculiar curved grooves and eminences to the corresponding surfaces of the radius and ulna, is divided by a ridge into an external and an internal part. The external part, articulated with the radius, consists of a rounded eminence directed forwards, called the capitellum, and a groove internal to it; it does not extend to the posterior surface. The internal part, the trochlea, articulates with the ulna, and extends completely round from the anterior to the posterior surface of the bone ; it is grooved down the middle like the surface of a pulley, and Ls somewhat broader behind than in front; anteriorly, its margins are inclined downwards and inwards; posteriorly, upwards and outwards, and so that seen from behiud, it lies in the middle part of the bone. Anteriorly, the internal margin of the trochlea is the most prominent, and widens below into a convexity parallel to the groove ; posteriorly, the external margin is most