63 NASAL CAVITIES AND SINUSES. The roof is horizontal in its mi.lillo part, but sloped downwards before and behind The middle part is formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, the fore part by the frontal and nasal bones, and the back part by the sphenoidal spongy bone. i i 4. i. The floor formed of the palate plates of the maxillary and palate bones, is smooth, and concave from side to side. Towards its anterior extremity is the superior orifice of the incisor canal. pig_ 54.—Vertical Antero- F'S- 54. Posterior Section of a Part of the Cranium, to THE Left of the Middle, VIEWED FROM THE InNER Side, to show the Odter Wall op the Left Nasal Fossa, &a. ^ 1, nasal bone ; 2, nasal pro- cess of the superior maxillary bone ; 3, ascending plate of the palate bone ; 4, superior turbi- nated bone of the ethmoid— below it the superior meatus, behind it tlie opening into the left sphenoidal sinus; 5, the middle turbinated bone—below it the middle meatus, in which are seen the uncinate process of the ethmoid, and between it and the inferior turbinated bone the opening into the maxillary sinus, superiorly and anteriorly, the opening of the infundibulum and ante, ior ethmoidal cells; behind it, and above S, the spheno-palatine foramen ; 6, the inferior turbinated bone—below it the inferior meatus x x, below these marks the section of the palatine plates of the left palate and superior maxillary bones ; 7, the left frontal sinus ; 8, the left sphenoidal sinus ; 9, the left optic foramen in the root of the lesser wing of the sphenoid and anterior clinoid process ; 10, the ridge of the dorsum sellae divided; and between 9 and 10, the sella tur- cica ; 11, is placed on the posterior surface of the petrous bone, close to the internal auditory meatus ; 12, is placed on the basilar process of the occipital bone, close to the foramen lacerum posterius; 13, is placed below the anterior condyloid foramen ; 14, left styloid process ; 15, external, and 16, internal pterygoid processes ; 17, posterior palatine canal aud grooves. The external wall is the most extensive. The bones which take part in its formation are the nasal, superior maxillary, ethmoid, lachrymal, inferior spongy, and palate bones, and the internal pterygoid plates. The superior and inferior turbinated processes of the ethmoid bone (superior and middle turbinated bones), aud the inferior spongy bone, projecting inwai-da, overhang three galleries or meatus. The superior meatus, very short, is directed domiwards and forwards between the superior and inferior turbinated processes of the ethmoid bone ; into it open anteriorly the posterior ethmoidal cells, and posteriorly the spheno-palatine foramen. The middle meatus, the space between the inferior turbinated process of the ethmoid and the inferior spongy bone, communicates at its foro part with the anterior ethmoidal cells, and, by means of the infundi- bulum, with the frontal sinus, while in its middle is the opening of th(! maxillary sinus. The inferior meatus, longer than the others, lies below the inferior spongy bone, between it and the floor of the nasal cavity ; in its fore part is the orifice of the nasal duct.