ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. 122 vertebro9 _and firmly attached to both ; the direction of the obliquity being reversed m each successive layer, in one stretching downwards from right to left, and m the next from left to right. Some of the fibres also are nearly horizontal. The central part of the fibro-cartilage is a pulpy and elastic material which, when the pressure which confines it is taken off by cutting through the intervertebral substance, rises up so as to assume a conical form. It is then seen to be of a lobate structure, and, examined under the micro- scope, exhibits a finely fibrous and homogeneous matrix, with numerous spherical and elliptical cells, some of them resembling cartilage-corpuscles, others larger and of various appearance. It is now generally admitted that the pnlp of the intervertebral disc is a persistent part of the chorda dorsalis; homologous, therefore, with those larger vestiges of the chorda dorsalis which occupy the biconical cavities between the bodies of the vertebraj in fishes. According to Luschka, there is present in each disc a synovial cavity, and the lobes of the pulp are synovial villi, similar to those which are to be found in the knee and shoulder joints, but of larger size, and occupying the whole cavity ; and it is worthy of notice that in like manner secondary cavities, developed within the chorda dorsalis, are found in the intervertebral substance in many fishes. The same writer describes small synovial sacs, in the cervical region, in those parts of the discs which are attached to the lateral elevations of the bodies of the vertebrEe. Occasionally the pulp of the discs projects backwards, through the surrounding laminae, so as to form a slight projection into the spinal canal. (Luschka, "Die Halbgelenke des Menschlichen Kbrper's," Berlin, 18£8, p. 84.) A thin cartilaginous layer, incomplete towards the circumference, covers the surfaces of the vertebrse and gives attachment to the discs. Ex- cluding from consideration the first two vertebrse, between which it does not exist, the intervertebral material forms in length about a fourth of the movable part of the column. The dorsal part of the column has, comparatively with the length, a much smaller proportion than the cervical or lumbar parts. The discs in the cervical and lumbar regions are thicker in front than behind, and it has been determined that the convexity of those portions of the column is due to them much more than to the bodies of the vertebrae, while the arching of the dorsal portion, on the contraiy, is rather owing to the shape of the bones. (W. and E. Weber, " Mechanik der menschl. Gehwerkzeuge," p. 90, et seq., Gottingen, 1836.) The anterior common ligament is a strong band of fibres, which is placed on the front of the bodies of the vertebrse, and reaches from the atlas to the first bone of the sacrum, becoming broader as it descends. It consists of longitudinal fibres which are dense, firm, and well marked. The superficial fibres extend from a given vertebra to the fourth or fifth below it; the fibres subjacent to these pass over the bodies of several vertebrse ; whilst the deeper ones pass only between adjacent vertebrse. The band is thicker towards the middle of the bodies of the vertebrse than at their margins, or over the intervertebral cartilages ; by which means the transverse depressions of the bodies are filled up, and the surface of the column rendered more even. The fibres adhere more closely to the margins of the bones than to the middle of their bodies, and still more closely to the intervertebral carti- lages. Upon the sides of the bodies there are some fibres which are thin and scattered, and reach from one bone to another. The posterior common ligament is situated within the spinal canal, and is attached to the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae ; it extends from the occiput to the sacrum. It is smooth, shining, and broader at the