MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 286 external semilunar cartilage, and receives additional fibres from the postmor ligament of the joint. The muscular fibres diverge as they pass downwards, Fig. 217. Fig. 217.—Deep Postekior Mdsoles os tue Leg. \ a, popliteal surface of the femur; 6, bare surface of the upper fourth of the fibula, from which the soleus muscle has been removed ; c, malleolus iu- tenius ; d, malleolus externus ; e, tuberosity of the os calcis, with the tendo Achillis inserted into it, and the plantaris on its inner side; ], inner head of the gastro- cnemius cut short at its origin ; 2, outer head ; 3, plantaris ; 4, tendon of the semimembranosus muscle near its insertion, seen spreading in three portions, viz., to the inside of the tibia, towards the popliteal fascia, and towards the ligamentum posticum ; 5, tendon of the biceps inserted into the head of the fibula; 6, popliteus muscle; 7, upper part of the origin of the soleus from the fibula, cutshort; 7', lineof its tibial origin ; between these fi^urea is seen the perforation in the upper part of the interosseous membrane ; 8, tibialis posticus ; 8', its tendon, pass- ing between the flexor digitorum communis and the tibia ; 9, flexor digitorum communis; 9', its tendon, with that of the tibialis posticus, passing behind the malleolus internus ; 10, flexor longus pollicis; 10', placed beside its tendon, where it passes over the tibia and astragalus ; 11, peroneus longus ; 11', its tendon behind that of the peroneus brevis, passing down behind the malleolus externus; 12, peroneus brevis. 110/ -da and are inserted into all that triangular sur- face of the tibia which is above the posterior oblique line. The tendon of the popliteus muscle occupies the groove on the femur in flexion only. The popliteus is bound down by an aponeurosis, principally derived from the tendon of the semi- membranosus muscle. The popliteal vessels and internal popliteal nerve lie upon its posterior surface, and it is covered by the gastrocnemius muscle. 10', tibialis posticus. The three remaining muscles of this group are bound down together by a deep fascia, which extends between the tibia and fibula, and separates them from the soleus. TheyZexor longus digitorum pedis, ai flexor perforans, arises from the posterior surface of the tibia, in the space below the oblique line, and as far down as -within three inches of . ^ the inner ankle; it likewise aiises by aponeu- rotic fibres connected with the flexor longus pollicis, which pass over the surface of the The fleshy fibres pass obliquely backwards into a tendon