292 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE LOWER LIMB. tl, Jinnf" wT^^f"* °f k'l^^ ^'^'l as an extensor of fln . f '"''f °f ^^"^ I'^S ^''^^ ankle-joint, it is fitted to act as a flexor of the knee ; .vlicn the knee is fixed cither by being placed in complete ex ension or by the sustained action of the extensor muscles, the gastrocnemius acts entirely on the foot, and combines with the solezis in extending the ankle and astragalo- calcaneal joints By the complete contraction of these muscles the heel is lifted from the ground and the body is raised on the toes. In leaping, as the limb is suddenly straightened by extension both at the knee and ankle joints, the gastrocnemius acts in the most advantageous manner possible on the foot, seeing that by the movement ot the knee its fibres are kept stretched. The tibialis antiais muscle flexes the foot upon the leg and raises its inner side- the peroneus tertius flexes the foot and raises its outer side: the tibialis posticus extends the foot and gives it an inward direction: the peroneus longus and brevis extend the foot and give it an outward direction. The peroneus longus, in crossing the foot inferiorly, strengthens the transverse arch formed by the metatarsal bones and anterior range of tarsal bones; especially when that arch is pressed upon by the weight of the body falling on the balls of the toes, as in stooping with bended knees. flexor and extensor muscles of the toes, including the lumbricales, act like the corresponding muscles in the hand. The direction of the flexor longus digitorum is, however, modified by the flexor accessorius, so as to bring its line of action into the direction of the middle of the foot and of the short flexor. The flexor accessorius and tendon of the foot and of the long flexor likewise assist the short flexor and the plantar aponeurosis in maintaining the arch of the foot. FASCIA OF THFi LOWER LIMB. TTie svperficial fascia of the lower limb is similar to that of other parts of the body. The subcutaneous layer is continuous with that of the lower part of the abdomen. The disposition of the deeper and more membranous part on the front of the thigh deserves attention in respect that it is so firmly attached to Poupart's ligament as to prevent the passage of fluids \mder it, from the thigh to the abdomen. The aponeurosis of the loiver limb, or fascia lata, is similar to the aponeu- rosis of the upper limb, but in some parts much stronger. In the gluteal region it is attached to the crest of the ilium, and descends as a strong membrane on the surface of the gluteus medius, as far as the upper margin of the gluteus maximus muscle ; it there divides into two layers, one superficial to the gluteus maximus, a continuous sheet, attached at its inner end to the sacrum, the other on the deep surface of that muscle. These two layers incase the muscle, and again unite at its inferior margin. On the thi{ih the fascia lata forms a continuous sheath, varying in thick- ness in different parts. It is strongest on the outer aspect of the limb, where its dense and glistening parallel fibres give it much the appearance of a tendinous aponeurosis, and where it serves the purpose of a tendon to the tensor vaginae femoris, and to a large part of the gluteus maximus. It is thinnest in the upper and inner part of the thigh, where it covers the adductor muscles. Near the knee, it is considerably strengthened by ten- dinous expansions given off from the lower termination of the extensor and flexor muscles of the knee-joint. In front of the thigh, a little below and external to the inner end of Poupart's ligament, is placed the saphenous opening, an aperture in the fascia lata through which the internal saphenous vein passes to join the femoral vein, and which receives special attention from its being the place of exit of femoral hernia. The outer part of this opening extends to the femoral artery, and is bounded externally by a cresceutic margin, the fal-