217 SUPERFICIAL FLEXOR OF THE FINGERg". The palmaris longus, the smallest muscle of this group, Is placed between the flexores carpi radialis and ulnaris, resting on the flexor sublimis : it arises from the inner condyle and the intermuscular septa ; forming a small muscular belly, which soon ends in a long slender tendon, inserted into the palmar fascia, near the middle of the wrist, and sometimes sending a slip to the short muscles of the thumb. The palmaris longus is frequently wanting. It is subject to many variations of form, e. g. the muscular fibres may occupy the middle of the muscle, which then commences and ends by an elongated tendon; or the muscular structure may be placed towards the lower end, the upper part being tendinous. Occasionally there are two long palmar muscles, one having the ordinary shape, while the other has one of the forms above referred to. The most remarkable peculiarity is that in which a small muscle, a second palmaris longus, placed nearer to the inner border of the fore- arm than' the usual muscle, covers the ulnar artery for some space above the carpus, and terminates partly in the annular ligament or in the fascia, and partly in the short muscles of the little finger. The flexor carpi ulnaris, the innermost muscle of the superficial group, arises by two heads, one of which is attached tendinously to the inner condyloid eminence of the humerus, the other to the inner side of the olecranon, and to the posterior border of the ulna for three-fourths of its length, by an aponeurosis which is inseparably connected with the investing aponeurosis of the limb. The fibres from the humeral head descend vertically, those from the ulna pass obliquely forwards, and terminate in a tendon, which, emerging from the first head, descends along the anterior margin of the muscle, and is ultimately inserted into the pisiform bone : this tendon is prolonged, by means of ligamentous structures, to the fifth metacarpal and unciform bones, as well as to the annular ligament and muscles of the little finger. This muscle rests on the flexor profundus digitorum. The ulnar nerve passes down into the forearm, in the interval between the two heads, and is then covered by the muscle : for the middle part of its course the ulnar artery is also covered by it, and in the lower part of tbe forearm, the nerve and artery, emerging from behind the muscle, lie on its radial side. The flexor diqiix>rum sxMimie vel perforatus, the superficial flexor of the fingers, is a broad flat muscle placed behind the preceding mitscles, along with which it takes its principal origin. It is divided inferiorly into four tendons, which pass to be inserted into the second phalanx of each of the four inner digits. More particularly, it arises from the inner condyle by the common tendon, and the fibrous septa common to it and the other muscles ; from the internal lateral ligament ; from the anterior surface of the coronoid process at the inner side ; and by a thin flat portion from the oblique Hne and part of the anterior border of the radius. The fleshy belly enlarges towards the middle of the forearm, and again dimiuishes somewhat before its division. The four tendons pass under the annular ligament of the wrist in pairs, one in front of the other ; the anterior pair consisting of those for the middle and ring fingers, the poste- rior of those for the index and little fingers. That for the little finger is smaller than the others. In the palm of the hand the tendons diverge, and each accompanied by a tendon of the flexor profundus, enters a fibrous sheath which binds both tendons down to the palmar surface of the phalanges. Opposite the first phalanx the tendon of the flexor sublimis divides into two parts, which fold