CORPUSCLES. xxxi soluble coloured substance from the tegumentary frame, which is insoluble, ami remains behind, shrunk to about two-thirds of its original diameter. To me the human blood-corpuscles, when deprived of theii- coloured part by- means of distilled water, and subsequently treated with solution of iodine, appear under the microscope like somewhat thick shrunken sloughs. The human blood-corpuscles, as well as those of the lower animals, often present deviations from the natural shape, which are most probably due to causes acting after the blood has been drawn from the vessels, but in some instances depend upon abnormal conditions previously existing in the blood. Thus, it is not unusual for many of them to appear indented or jagged at the mai-gin, when exposed under the microscope, (fig. xv., ^) and the number of corpuscles so altered often appears to increase during the time of observa.- tion. This is, perhaps, the most common change ; but they may become distorted in various other ways, and corrugated on the surface ; not unfre- quently one of their concave sides is bent out, and they acquire a cup-like figure. It is even a question with some observers, whether the biconcave figiure which the corpuscles generally present may not be due to a distension of the circumferential part of an originally flat disk. Mr. Gulliver made the curious discovery, that the corpuscles of the Mexican deer and .some allied species present very singular forms, doubtless in consequence of ex- posure ; the figitres they assume are various, but most of them become lengthened and pointed at the ends, and then often slightly bent, not unlike caraway-seeds. The red disks, when blood is drawn from the vessels, sink in the plasma ; they have a singular tendency to run together, and to cohere by their broad surfaces, so as to form by their aggregation cylindrical columns, like piles or rouleaus of money, and the rolls or piles themselves join together into an irregular network (fig. xvii.). In a few moments after this has taken place, a heaving or slowly oscillating motion is observable in the mass, and the rolls may then become broken up, and the corpuscles more or less completely disjoined (Jones). Generally the corpuscles separate on a sUght impulse, and they may then unite again. The phenomenon is probably of a physical kind : it will take place in blood that has stood for some hours after it has been drawn, and also when the globules are immersed in serum in place of liquor sanguinis. By processes, which need not here be detailed, Vierordt and Welcker have estimated the number of rod corpuscles ia a cubic millimetre of human blood. The former assigns it at upwards of 5,000,000 ; the latter at 6,000,000 in the male, and 4,500,000 in the female. Pale or colourless Corpuscles (fig. xviii.).—These are comparatively few in number, of a rounded and slightly flattened figure, rather larger in man and mammalia than the red disks, and varying much less than the latter in size and aspect in difl:erent animals. In man (during health) the proportion of the white corpuscles to the red is about 2 or 3 to 1000. This proportion is diminished by fasting and increased after a meal, especially of albuminous food. Their number compared with the red corpuscles is said to bfl greater