BONES OF THE UPPER TJMB. 80 proinnicnt. Atove the trochlea posteriorly is a large and deep pit, the olecranon fossa, which receives the olecranon process of the ulna in extension of the forearm ; and above it anteriorly, separated from the olecranon fossa only by a thin lamina of bone, is the mucli smaller coronoid fossa which receives the coronoid process in flexion. Above the capitellum is a shallow depression, into which the head of the radius is pressed in complete flexion. ^ Varieties.—U is not uncommon to 'find a small hooklike process, with its point directed downwards, placed in front of the internal supracondyloid ridge, the suj)racondyloid process. From its extremity, a fibrous band, giving origin to the pronator radii teres muscle, passes to the internal supracondyloid eminence, and through the arch thus formed passes the median nerve, accompanied frequently by the brachial artery, or by a large branch rising from it. This process represents a portion of the bone completing a foramen in carnivorous animals. Much has been M'ritten on the subject. (Struthers' Edin. Med. Journ. 1848. Gruber, "Canalis supracondyloideus humeri," Mem. de I'Acad. Imp. de St. Petersburg, 1859, p. 57. Hyrtl, " Topogr. Anat." v. ii. p. 283.) The thin plate between the olecranon and coronoid fossae is sometimes perforated. THE RADIUS.* The radius is the external of the two bones of the forearm, and extends from the humerus to the carpus. Tt is thickest at its lower extremity. It articulates with the humerus, the ulna, the scaphoid, and the semi- lunar bones. The head, or superior articular extremity, is of the form of a disc, with a smooth vertical margin. It presents on its summit a depression, which articulates with the capitellum of the humerus, and is surrounded by a convex part, broadest internally where it glides upon the groove internal to the capitellum. The smooth, short, cylindrical surface of the vertical margin, likewise broadest internally, rolls on the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna and within the orbicular ligament. The head is supported on a con- stricted portion of a cylindrical form, named the ner^. The shaft or body is slightly curved, with the convexity directed outwards and backwards. On its internal aspect superiorly, where it is continuous with the neck, is the bicipital tuberosity, to the posterior border of which is attached the tendon ol^ the biceps muscle. Below the bicipital tuberosity the shaft presents three sides, the external of which is rounded into the others by smooth convex margins, while the anterior and posterior surfaces are separated by an acute internal margin, which gives attachment to the interosseous ligament. The external surface is convex transversely as well as longitudinally ; it is marked near the middle by an oval rough part, about one inch and a half long, which gives insertion to the pronator radii teres. The anterior surface is marked in its. upper part by a shallow longi- tudinal wroove for the flexor longus pollicis ; inferiorly it is expanded, and presents a flat impression corresponding with the pronator quadratus ; and above the middle is the foramen for the medullary vessels, directed upwards into the bone. The posterior surface presents slight oblique impressions of the extensor muscles of the thumb. The lower extremity of the radius, broad and thick, and someAvhat quadri- lateral, presents inferiorly a large surface, which articulates with the carpus, and internally a small one, which articulates with the ulna. The carptil ♦ When the arm is at rest it hangs naturally with the thumb directed forwards and inwards, as in partial pronation; but in anatomical description the forearm is placed as in supination, with the thumb directed outwai-ds and the palm of the hand looking foi-warda.