138 ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPrER LIMB. its origin, where it again becomes continuous with the synovial membrane of the capsule iu such a maimer as to preserve the integrity of the mem- brane. The bursal prolongation of the synovial membrane on the tendon of the subscapularis muscle is of variable extent, sometimes scarcely existing, sometimes forming a considerable pouch on the venter of the scapula. Subacromial Bursa,—Superficial to the muscles covering the top of the joint is a considerable bursa mucosa, by means of which the contiguous sur- faces of the coracoid and acromion processes, and of the coraco-acromial ligament and deltoid muscle are lubricated, so as to facilitate the movements of the subjacent head of the humerus. MovEMKNTS.—Great freedom of movement of the humerus in every direction is admitted at the shoulder-joint; but superiorly and posteriorly the extent of the move- ment is somewhat limited by the margin of the acromion. When the arm is raised, the great tuberosity of the humerus becomes locked against the acromion as soon as the position is reached in which the limb lies at right angles to the trunk, and all further elevation is accomplished by movements in the sterno-clavicular and acromio-clavicular articulations. The arch formed by the acromion, the coracoid process and the deltoid ligament, lined by the subacromial bursa, forms a sort of secondary socket, in which the extremity of the humenis, covered by the tendons inserted into the great tube- rosity, revolves, and against which it is pressed when the weight of the body is made to rest upon the arms : in quadrupeds, the weight of the body is transmitted through ihe glenoid fossa to the humerus. ARTICULATIONS OF THE FOREARM AND ELBOW. Union of the Radius and Ulna.—The bones of the forearm are united by a superior and inferior articulation and an inter-osseous membrane. Fig. 127. Fig. 127.—The upper part op the Ulna, Orbicular Ligament of the Eadius. WITH the 4 1, upper division of the sigmoid surface on the olecranon; 2, extremity of the coronoid process; 5, orbicular liga- ment. In the superior radio-ulnar articulation, the con- nection of the head of the radius with the small sig- moid cavity of the ulna is effected by means of the annular or orbicular ligament, a strong band of fibres attached to the ulna in front and behind at the extremities of the small sigmoid cavity, and forming four-fifths of a ring which encircles the head of the radius and binds it firmly m its situation. The outer surface is connected with the external lateral ligament of the elbow, whose fibres are inserted into it ; the deep surface is smooth, and is lined by the synovial membrane of the elbow joint. The inferior radio-ulnar articulation .—The connection between the semi- lunar surface of the radius and the lower end of the ulna is effected by means of a fibro-cari;ilage, a synovial membrane, and some scattered liga- m lus fibres in front and behind. The ^ria^^^-^fi^^^-'^^Z S: ^ T^late attached by its base to a ridge separatmg the carpal from the iilnar ^tulatSg surfJce of the radius ; and ^/^^^^^^'^.^^^^^ root of the Styloid process of the ulna, and to the side of that process, its n^^ef^lMsio.^ras the ulna, its lower towards the cuneiform bone.