77 CLAVICLE. # ..n„ffi^ tissue in othera. A vascular foramen usually piercc.9 the ":*cfo?th: Tpin,, a,,., othc. a., to be found on the antenor snrfaco of the bone, near the neck. THE CLAVICLE. The clavicle or collarbone extends transver-sely outwards, with an inclina- tion backwards, from the summit of the sternum to the acromion process of the scapula, and connects the upper Umb with the trunk. It is curved somewhat like an italic/: the f«^7«^^<^y 1 of curve is directed forwards, and extends over two-thirds of the len^h of the bone ; that of the outer curve looks backwards, and is most marked near the outer fourth of the bone. The clavicle, towards its scapular end, is compressed and broad from above downwards, but in the extent of its inner curve it is more or less prismatic or cylindrical. In its description, four surfaces of the shaft may be distinguished, together with the two extremities. Fig. 68.—The Eight F'g- ^8. Clavicle. ^ A, from above; B, from below. 1, sternal end ; 2, acromial end ; 2', small facet for arti- culation witb the acromion ; 3, groove on the lower sur- face for the subclavius mus- cle ; 4, rough elevation at the place of attachment of the coraco-clavicular liga- ments ; 5, rough depression at the place of attachment of the costo-clavicular or rhomboid ligament; 6, in front, the mark of the attachment of the pectoralis major ; 7, that of the deltoid muscle. The superior surface is broadest in its outer part; it is principally sub- cutaneous, but near the inner extremity presents a slight roughness, marking the clavicular attachment of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. The anterior surface opposite the outer curve is a mere rough border, from which the deltoid muscle takes origin, but in the inner half of its extent is broadened out into an imeven space more or less distinctly separated from the inferior surface, and giving attachment to the pectoralis major muscle. The posterior surface is broadest at the inner extremity, and smooth in the whole extent of the internal curvature ; but towards its outer extremity it forms a naiTow rough border which separates it from the superior surface, and gives attachment to the trapezius muscle. On the inferior surface an elongated roughness near the scapular extremity marks the attachment of the coraco- clavicular ligaments ; extending inwards from this, over the middle third of the bone, is a groove in which the subclavius muscle is inserted; and near the sternal end is a smaller rough depression, to which the costo-clavicular ligament is attached. The internal extremity is the thickest part of the clavicle. It presents a somewhat variably concavo-convex surface, somewhat triangular in form, with its most prominent angle directed downwards and backwards. Tho compressed external extremity is convex from before backwards, and articulates by a small oval surface with the acromion.