67 NERVES OF THE BACK OF THE ARM. the circumflex artery lies the muscular nerve of the same name, which ends in the deltoid. 1. Musculo-spiral nerve. 2, 2. Ulnar nerve. 3, Offset to the long head of the triceps- 4. Offset to the inner head of the triceps. ttt Three branches to the outer head of the triceps. 6. Branch to the anconeus. 7. Upper external cutaneous of the musculo-spiral. 8. Lower external cutaneous of the musculo-spiral, 9. Nerve to the teres minor. 10. Cutaneous branch of the cir- cumflex nerve. The musculo-spiral nerve, 1, begins in the brachial plexus (Plate i. 13) ; and, reaching the digits, supplies the extensor and supinator muscles on the back of the arm and forearm, together with some of the integuments. In the arm the trunk winds behind the humerus from the inner to the outer side, and divides at the outer condyle into two—radial and posterior interosseous nerves (Plate xii.). The nerve lies in the groove of the humerus between the inner and outer heads of the triceps, and turns to the front of the arm above the supinator longus muscle, H. Offsets of the part of the nerve now dissected supply the extensors of the elbow-joint and the teguments. Muscular hrayiches enter the heads of the triceps. One, 3, belongs to the parts. A, and B, of the long head ; others, 4, and 6, supply the inner head, D ; and three f f f enter the outer head, C. To the inner and long heads some branches are furnished by the trunk of the nerve in the axilla (Plate iv. 2). The branch, 6, of the anconeus is very slender, and is con- tained in the triceps. Cutaneous nerves,—Two external cutaneous appear with super- ficial arteries on the outside of the limb ; the upper one, 7, smaller than the other, reaches in the integuments of the arm as far as the elbow ; and the lower nerve, 8, is continued beyond the elbow, on the back of the forearm, nearly to the wrist. Whilst the musculo-spiral is contained in the axilla it furnishes an internal cutaneous nerve to the inner and hinder parts of the arm (Plate iv. 1). ' If the musculo-spiral nerve is cut across, or its action much im-