35 ANEURISM AFTER BLEEDING. veins * When it is contained in the integuments, its projection in a fat arm might be taken for the swell of a vein on an insufficient examination. The occasional existence of such a state of the arteries should lead to a careful examination of the front of the elbow before venesection, with the view of detecting pulsation not only in the brachial trunk, but also in any other unusually placed artery. Injury of an artery in blood-letting would be manifested by the blood being redder than ordinary venous blood ; by the fluid escaping in jerks ; and by pressure on the vein below the open- ing not stopping the bleeding. Such an untoward accident should be met by placing a conical compress on the wound ; and by applying a bandage firmly along the limb with the intention of preventing the escape of the blood, and its accumulation under the deep fascia. As the wound in the artery does not heal readily, like that in the skin and the vein for instance, a blood-tumour or aneurism usually follows. Into this tumour the blood passes through the hole in the artery, and it is inclosed in a sac formed by the sur- rounding parts (false aneurism). Or the wound in the back of the vein not healing, a permanent communication with the artery is established, through which the arterial blood is driven into the vein, producing distension, and a varicose condition of the superficial veins below the elbow. If the edges of the contiguous openings in the vessels unite without the intervention of any sac, so that the vein receives blood directly from the artery, the term aneurismal varix is applied to that con- dition of the parts. If, on the contrary, a sac or tumour is formed between the artery and vein, which communicates with both, and serves as a channel by which the arterial current can pass into the vein, the aneurism is called varicose. For the treatment of a blood tumour or aneurism formed after bleeding, whether it opens only into the artery (traumatic false aneurism) or joins both the artery and the vein (varicose aneu- rism), an operation on the brachial artery will be needed if its en- * Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries, by Professor Quain. D 2