10 DISSFX'TIOX OF THE UPPER LIMB. An anterior circumflex cirtery, not now visible, crosses between the humerus and the coraco-brachiaUs to the shoulder. The external mammarij, e, is a long slender irregular branch, which is directed across the axilla to the chest, lying about mid- way between the anterior and posterior folds. It supplies the glands, and the wall of the chest, assisting the long thoracic artery. Muscular and cutaneous branches.—Small offsets near the end of the artery supply the coraco-brachialis, K, and the long head of the triceps, N. And a cutaneous twig, w, accompanies the internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerye. An inspection of the Drawing will suflBce for showing the vessels or nerves likely to be injured in wounds into the axilla, or in incisions made into it by the surgeon. Along the anterior boundary, where this joins the chest, are placed the long thoracic vessels ; and lying along the posterior boundary, but within the margin of the latissimus, are the subscapular vessels and nerves with glands. On the side of the limb, or at the outer part, the trunks of the axillary vessels and nerves, and the cords of the brachial plexus are aggregated together; whilst on the side of the chest there is only an occasional small artery. If an incision is to be made into the arm-pit the surgeon should select the inner boundary as the freest from vessels, and should direct the knife about midway between the anterior and posterior folds. Only the position of the chief vein to the artery was retained in the dissection ; and the smaller veins, which would complicate the drawing without coiTcsponding utility, were removed. The axillary vein, I, the chief trunk of the limb, is continuous in the arm, just beyond the axilla, with the cutaneous vein— basilic. Placed on the inner or thoracic side of, and partly con- cealing the axillary artery, it receives small contributing veins corresponding with the arterial branches. Some of these are seen in the Plate. VEINS OF THE AXILLA. I. Axillary vein. m. Subscapular vein. 2). External mammary vein, r. Cutaneous and muscular vein.