17 MUSCLES OF THE THORAX AND ARM. front of, and may take even a position at a right angle to the other.* In replacing the external fragment of a broken shaft of the clavicle, the piece of bone must be moved outwards indirectly by forcing outwards the scapula; and it is to be raised to the level of the inner fragment by lifting and supporting the elbow. At the outer part of the dissection is the projection of the shoulder, which is produced by the upper end of the arm bone covered by the deltoid muscle, R. When the limb is pendent the swell of the muscle runs into that of the arch formed by the clavicle and acromion; and when the limb is raised and lowered, the arm bone can be felt moving under the muscle. In dislocation of the shoulder joint the upper end of the humerus sinks down from the deltoid; and a hollow then occupies the site of the prominence. This injury is accompanied necessarily by unnatural direction of the shaft of the arm bone forwards or backwards, and by a sharp edge along the bony arch of the clavicle and the acromion process. The muscles of the chest and shoulder, which are partly dis- played in the Drawing, give to the scapula and the shoulder joint some of their varied movements. The scapula has a gliding motion over the ribs, and can be moved in opposite directions. It is drawn forwards by the small pectoral, B, and serratus magnus muscle, F, which attach it to the chest. The shoulder being a ball and socket joint is provided with * A Treatise on Fractures in tiie Vicinity of Joints, by Robert William Smith, M.D.: Dublin, 1850; p. 210. MUSCLES OF THE THORAX AND ARM. A. Pectoralis major. B. Pectoralis minor. C. Latissimus dorsi. D. Teres major. K. Coraco-bracliialis, L. Biceps, its short head. 0. Biceps, the long head. IsT. Triceps extensor brachii. P. Insertion of pectoralis major. R. Deltoid muscle. S. Subclavius muscle. V. Costo-coracoid membrane. F, Serratus magnus. H, Subscapularis. J. Clavicle with the cut attach- ment of the pectoralis major. C