DISSECTION OF THE UPrER LIMR. 16 Part of the arch is subcutaneous, and the fore finger when carried along it traces successively the outline of the clavicle, acromion, and spine of the scapula. From its slight depth injuries of it are easily ascertained, because all irregularity of the surface can be detected at once Avith the finger. On the inner side of the shoulder joint below the clavicle, and projecting at the edge of the deltoid muscle, R, is the coracoid process. It gives attachment to the three muscles B, K, and L, as well as to a strong ligament (coraco-clavicular), which passes from its upper and hinder part to the under surface of the clavicle, and unites together firmly the two bones. On the surface of the body this projecting osseous point can be felt between the deltoid and pectoral muscles. In consequence of the clavicle acting as a prop to keep the shoulder from the trunk, it is very liable to be broken. By direct violence it may be shattered at any spot; but force applied to the outer end through a fall or a blow produces fracture generally about the middle of the bone. In fracture of the shaft, that is, internal to the line of the eoracoid process and the strong ligament joining this part to the clavicle, the scapula and shoulder joint, having lost their support, fall downwards and inwards towards the chest, forcing the outer past the inner fragment; and the large muscles of the chest which are inserted into the humerus assist in brinainj? the shoulder into closer apposition with the thorax. The inner fragment, freed from the weight of the shoulder, remains in its natural position, though it appears more than usually prominent; and the muscles attached on opposite sides, viz., the great pectoral and sterno-mastoid, may act also as antagonists, and prevent its disj^lacement. If the fracture takes place opposite the strong ligament uniting the coracoid process with the clavicle, the scapula remains attached to the clavicle by that ligament, though not perfectly supported by it, and the shoulder falls but little towards the chest. In fracture external to the ligament, there is, however, consider- able displacement of the bone, for the outer detached end being loose, and being acted on by the trapezius muscle, is placed in