DISSECTIOX OF THE UPPER LIMB. 8 Two other points deserve attention also : Firstly, that t^vo arteries instead of one may be found as often as 1 in 10." Secondly, that not unfrequently the nerves, which should serve as the deep guide to the artery, are not placed around the parent trunk, but encircle a large branch formed by the conjunction of the usual offsets at this spot with some of the branches which are derived, as a rule, fi'om the brachial artery. When practising on the dead body the tying of the part of the artery issuing from the axilla the following directions may be observed :— The limb is to be placed at right angles to the trunk, and the operator stands between the two. With the eye fixed on the prominence of tlie coraco-brachialis muscle, K, which is the superficial guide to the vessel, a cut is to be begun in the hoUow of the arm-pit, and to be continued along the side of the muscle for two inches ; but the knife is not to be carried deeper at first than through the skin and fat. The axillar}' vein will now be recognised through the deep fascia or aponeurosis of the limb by its blue colour ; and the aponeurosis being divided along the outer edge of the vein as far as the cut in the integuments, this vessel may be detached with care from the subjacent parts, and drawn inwards with a narrow retractor. Xext, the brachial plexus around the artery mil serve as the deep guide. Search is to be made for the axillary trunk by cutting a piece of fat from the hollow out of which the vein has been drawn; and it is to be made in a horizontal direction or towards the humerus, instead of backwards towards the axillary fold. The operator tries to find the artery in the midst of the nerve- tninks without attempting to distinguish the individual nerves. After the thin arterial sheath has been opened by the knife, the needle may be passed readily, and the vessel is to be tied with as little displacement as possible. When the artery is not surrounded by the nerves of the brachial * The facts on ^vhich this statement rests Avill be found in the Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries of the Human Body, by Richard Quain, F.R.S. : London, 1844.