41 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE ARM. formed by one muscle ; but after the dissection has been made, it will be seen to consist of the biceps, D, and coraco-brachialis, H, which may be traced upwards under the anterior fold, R, of the arm-pit. As the chief muscle, D, acts as a flexor of the elbow- joint, it becomes much enlarged in persons occupied, like black- smiths, in bending the elbow. On each side of the swell of the muscles is a surface depres- sion : the two meet below in a hollow in front of the elbow, which contains the superficial veins and nerves ; but above they separate, the inner one joining the arm-pit, and the outer one subsiding at the insertion of the deltoid muscle, S. In the inner depression, which is most marked, lies the basilic vein, g, with the large internal cutaneous nerve, 4, and lymphatics: these are contained in the fat, and are usually distant a short way from the edge of the biceps. Beneath the fascia of the limb and close to the muscle are lodged the brachial vessels, h, and the companion median nerve, 7. The outer depression is less wide and deep, and corresponding with it is the superficial vein, the cephalic, h. In it, towards the elbow, the external cutaneous nerve of the forearm makes its appearance through the fascia (Plate iii. 3). Wounds in the outer bicipital hollow may be large and deep without injuring any important part; whilst in the inner one scarcely a puncture can be made without endangering some vessel or nerve. The issue, seton, and cautery are applied usually at the top of the outer bicipital groove, just below the insertion of the deltoid muscle, because the spot is free from any active subjacent muscle to give rise by its contractions to pain in the sore that has been produced. MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE AEM. The muscles on the front of the humerus which pass over the elbow, viz., the biceps, D, and the brachial is anticus, F, bend the elbow-joint by bringing forwards the bones of the forearm, to which they are fixed. Behind the humerus is a large three- headed or tricipital muscle which is attached to the ulna, and,