12 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. The imisculo-sjnral, 13, occupies, naturally, a position beneath the vessel, but it has been pulled inwards, and is represented in the Plate as on the inner side. Here it furnishes two small branches : one muscular, 14, to the inner and middle heads of the triceps ; the other is the internal cutaneous, IG, which is distri- buted to the integuments of the back of the arm. The circumflex 7ierve, 12, accompanies the artery of the same name, h, to the deltoid muscle. See Plate v. Large internal cutaneous nerve, 18, lies on the axillary artery, and gives a small cutaneous offset, 20, to the integuments of the arm over the situation of the bloodvessels ; but its direction has been altered by the displacement of the skin. Small internal cutaneous nerve, 11, (nerve of Wrisberg) issues beneath, though sometimes through the axillary vein, and is joined by a branch, 7, from the highest lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax. Its position close to the vein has been disturbed by the dragging of the skin. Muscular Iranches. The nerve to the teres major, 8, and the nerve to the latissimus, 9, are directed with the subscapular vessels along the back of the arm-pit to their destination; the former gives an offset to the subscapularis muscle. The nerve to the serratus magnus is continued on the surface nearly to the lower border of its muscle, giving backwards offsets to the fleshy fibres. Its origin is connected with the trunks of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves in the neck. Pressure applied to the nerves of the brachial plexus may occa- sion pain, or loss of power and feeling, according to its degree, in a greater or smaller part of the limb. In the use of crutches the weight of the body acts injuriously on the nerves, for the arm is arched over the top of the crutch, and the nerves are compressed between the humerus and the artificial prop of the^ody. This inconvenience may be remedied by the crutch-head being so con- structed as to bear least on the centre of the arm over the large nerves.