DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 26 Alar thoracic. This belongs to the ghinds in the axilla, and is seldom to be found as a distinct branch (Quain) : offsets to the glands are generally supplied by the subscapular. Plate i. If the alar thoracic exists as a separate artery, it may spring from the second or the third part of the axillary trunk. The external mammary, e, appears to be a compensating branch to the long thoracic, d, both supplying like parts. It begins near the termination of the axillary trunk, and is accom- panied by a vein, m. Anastomosis of the tranches. The blood finds its way from one part of the body to another through the communications of the smaller vessels, though its flow in the main trunk is obstructed; and the anastomoses of the branches of the axillary artery with those of the neck and chest, by which the collateral circulation would be established after ligature of the axillary artery, will be now considered. On the chest the thoracic offsets of the upper thoracic, acromial and long thoracic, external mammary, and subscapular branches, anastomose with the intercostal and internal mammary arteries. On the shoulder the branches of the axillary communicate with two branches of the subclavian trunk, viz., the posterior scapular and supra-scapular. Offsets of the subscapular artery, distributed to both surfaces of the scapula, join both the above- mentioned subclavian branches. Other anastomoses take place with the supra-scapular in the following way :—through the deltoid muscle offsets of the acromial thoracic, dorsal scapular, and posterior circumflex communicate with that artery ; and through the capsule of the shoulder-joint the anterior and posterior circumflex unite with it. VEINS IN" THE AXILLA. All the smaller companion veins which would interfere with the view of the arteries and nerves, have been taken away. h. Axillary vein. j I. Cephalic vein. Tc. Brachial vein. L m. External mammary, n.. ^» ' * ' ^ / The axillarij vein, h, has the same extent as the artery by