84 DISSECTION" OF THE AEM. alters the position of the arm, and the opening in the vein is closed by the skin being brought over it. Should this displacement of the skin take place, the blood accu- mulates under it, forming a tumour called "thrombus," and com- presses the vein. When sufficient blood has been obtained the thumb is to be placed on the vein, as before, close below the opening, for the purpose of stopping the bleeding, and the bandage is to be loosened. A small compress of linen, made ready before the operation is begun, is to be placed on the wound ; and is to be fixed in position by the fillet applied like a figure of 8 around the elbow whilst the limb is slightly bent. Slight pressure of the bandage, a half bent state of the elbow, and rest, are most con- ducive to the healing of the wound. If the median cephalic,/, should be selected for venesection in consequence of its greater size, the steps to be taken in the opera- tion are the same as those above referred to, with the exception of the manner in which the current of blood in it is to be checked. Tying up the limb in the usual way will scarcely make pressure enough upon the median cephalic in a muscular arm, because the vein sinks into the hollow on the side of the biceps. A more effectual compression may be exerted by sinking the thumb in the groove between the biceps and supinator longus muscles ; or if a fillet is used, by inserting under it a small compress over the situation of the vein. In consequence of its position in a hollow, the vein may be rather more difficult to reach with the lancet, especially in a fat person. From the position of the brachial artery under the median basilic vein puncture of it may take place in the operation of bleeding. This serious accident is occasioned by cutting the vein directly over the artery, and pushing the lancet too deeply after transfixing the vein. Injury of another artery may ensue under the following circumstances. One of the large arteries of the forearm (radial or ulnar) may arise higlicr in the arm than usual, and in passing the elbow to its destination, may lie superficially, — being placed generally under the aponeurosis of the limb, but sometimes in the fat, by the side of the