7 LIGATURE OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. inwards below); another nerve beneath the artery for a short dis- tance is the circumflex, 12. Two named branches, the subscapular, /, and the posterior cir- cumflex, h, leave this part of the artery opposite the edge of the subscapularis muscle. Ligature of the vessel. The origin of several branches from the axillary artery opposite the shoulder joint, would interfere with the application of a ligature at that spot ; but for a dis- tance of two inches beyond (towards the arm) the vessel is free from any large branch, and might be tied without risk of haemorrhage. Suitable as the lower part of the axillary trunk seems to be for an operation at this place, surgeons have not chosen it for the application of a ligature. Doubtless the advantages offered by tying the brachial and subclavian arteries have caused those vessels to be selected in preference to the axillary ; but the small channels that remain for the collateral circulation after the main artery is secured may have had some influence in inducing sur- geons to let the operation on this part of the axillary artery remain unpractised. For the only collateral vessels to carry on the circu-/^^^-^jj^ lation after the occlusion of the trunk would be the small an(M - indirect anastomoses through the following muscles, viz., the! coraco-brachialis, biceps, and long head of the triceps; and through the shaft of the humerus. Although the collateral vessels are so small and indirect, they are sufficient for carrying on the circulation, as the artery has been tied Vfith success in this situation. M. Blandin secured the vessel here in a man who received an injury of the artery from the dis- charge of a gun. The man recovered.* Should the surgeon be called upon to tie the artery he should keep in mind its situation along the edge of the coraco-brachialis, with its companion vein on the thoracic side and partly concealing it, and with large nerves of the brachial plexus around it. Though the vessel is usually very superficial, it may be placed under muscular fibres directed over it from the latissimus to the pectoralis. * Traite d'Anatomie topographique, p. 506 : Paris, 1834.