NERVES BEFORE THE BEND OF THE ELBOW. 89 undertaking the operation of placing a ligature on a wounded artery in front of the elbow. There is another unusual state of the brachial artery which would give rise to unlooked-for haemorrhage from a wound in the lower half of the arm. For instance, the artery leaves sometimes the edge of the biceps, and courses, with or without the median nerve, along the line of the inner intermuscular septum, D. At the elbow it returns to the middle of the limb through the origin of a wide pronator teres muscle, or round a projecting bony point of the humerus (Quain). In such a deviation in the course of the artery, a wound near the elbow on the inner side of the arm, far removed from the line of the biceps muscle, might open this large trunk, and give origin to most alarming, if not dangerous haemorrhage. NERVES BEFORE THE BEND OF THE ELBOW. The anterior cutaneous nerves of the forearm cross the super- ficial veins in front of the elbow in coursing to their destination. 1. Large internal cutaneous nerve. 2. Small internal cutaneous, or the nerve of Wrisberg. 3. External cutaneous nerve. 4. Anterior part of the large internal cutaneous. 5. Cutaneous offsets to the arm of the internal cutaneous. 6. Posterior part of the internal cutaneous. 8. Median nerve. The large internal cutaneous nerve, 1, enters the fat about mid- way along the arm, and divides into two parts :—One, 4 (the anterior part), is continued along the front of the forearm to the wrist; the other, G (posterior part), ramifies on the back of the forearm on the ulnar side, reaching to the lower third. The primary branches of the nerve lie generally under the median basilic vein, instead of over it as in this dissection. Near the arm-pit a cutaneous offset, 5, leaves the trunk to supply the integuments over the biceps muscle. Small internal cutaneous nerve, 2, or the nerve of Wrisberg. The origin of the nerve is seen in the arm-pit in Plates i. and ii. It pierces the fascia internal to, and lower down tlian the large