MUSCLES OF THE SCAPULA AND SHOULDER, 55 shoulder-joint, it is inserted into the middle impression on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The superficial fibres from the spine of the scapula and the fascia are directed forwards over the fibres coming from the blade part of the bone. The teres minor, L, arises by the side of the infra-spinatus from the fascia, and from a special impression along the axillary border of the scapula. Covering the joint, it is inserted into the lowest mark on the great tuberosity of the head of the humerus, and into the bone below by a few fleshy fibres. The three muscles above noticed are called " articular" from touching the joint. When in action they cause the humerus to move in the following directions. If the bone is hanging the supra-spinatus will assist the deltoid in raising the arm ; and the infra-spinatus and teres minor acting together will draw back- wards the point of bone to which they are fixed, becoming external rotators. If the humerus is elevated the two last muscles below the scapular spine will assist the deltoid in carrying backwards the arm almost horizontally. They suffer more or less injury in dislocations of the shoulder- joint. Should the humerus be dragged downwards from its socket all three may be torn across; or, the muscles remaining whole, a shell of bone, into which they are inserted, may be detached from the humerus. In dislocation backwards the head of the humerus lies under the infra-spinatus, K, and teres minor, L, which are relaxed; and the supra-spinatus is directed backwards, and made tense round the spine of the scapula. But supposing the bone dislocated forwards (on to the other side of the scapula), the infra-spinal muscles will be much stretched if not torn. The two arm muscles are the deltoid, forming the prominence of the shoulder, and the triceps, which lies behind the arm bone. The deltoid muscle, N, arises from the scapular arch opposite the attachment of the trapezius, viz., from the outer third of the clavicle, and from the acromion and the lower edge of the spine of the scapula as far back as the posterior smooth triangular surface, where it blends with the deep fascia covering the infra-spinous muscles. It narrows below, and is inserted into an impression on