86 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. A. Palmaris bre\is. B. Abductor pollicis. D. Flexor brevis pollicis (outer N. First dorsal interosseous head). E. Tendon of palmaris longus. G. Adductor minimi digiti. H. Adductor pollicis. J. Abductor minimi digiti. K. K, Pieces of tbe slieath of the muscle. 0. 0. Two outer lumbricales. R. Tendons of the flexor digit- orum sublimis. S. Tendon of flexor carpi ul- naris, V. Flexor sublimis tendons in the flexor tendons. palm of the hand. W. Tendon of flexor profundus to L. Part of the palmar fascia. the ring finger. X. Anterior annular ligament. Palmaris Irevis, A. This small subcutaneous muscle is un- attached to bone. Consisting of fleshy bundles, more or less separate, which are attached to the palmar fascia, L, it is inserted into the skin at the inner border of the hand, extending down- wards a varying distance from the pisiform bone. Its insertion is marked by a surface depression. When the muscle contracts it elevates the skin on the inner side of the hand, and increases slightly the depth of the palmar hollow. The tendon of the jpalmaris longus, E, enters the hand over the annular ligament: from its outer side an offset is prolonged to the thumb muscles, whilst the main part ends in the palmar fascia. Tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum, V. Four in number, they are directed through the palm over the deep flexor; and at the root of each finger one enters the sheath of the digit, K, with a tendon of the deep flexor. Near the front of the metacarpal phalanx it is slit for the passage of the deep flexor tendon, W ; and it is inserted by two slips into the sides of the second phalanx, about half way along the bone. This muscle brings the middle phalanges towards the palm, and bends thus the nearest phalangeal joints—the flrst stage in the movement of closing the fingers. As the fingers are approximated to the palm, the muscle raises the metacarpal phalanges by means of the digital sheaths binding its tendons to the bones; and it acts finally as a flexor of the wrist-joint.