20 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. and the scapula, separating the fleshy fibres from the blade-bone, and projects above the npper border of the muscle.* Teres major, D. Only the general position of the teres, ^Yhich extends from the lower angle and border of the scapula to the humerus, can be now seen. The muscle is described with Plate v., D. The deltoid muscle, R, forms the prominence of the shoulder, and reaches from the scapular arch to the arm bone below the level of the axilla. Only the fore part of the muscle is here represented: its insertion and connections are seen in Plate v., N. Three muscles of the arm, biceps, coraco-brachialis, and triceps, are laid bare in the dissection—the two former, which are superficial to the humerus, being much more apparent than the latter, which is behind the bone. The anatomy of the triceps will be given in the notice of Plate vi. The Mceps muscle consists above (origin) of two parts, long head and short head. The short head, L, is fixed by a wide tendon to the coracoid process; and the long tendinous head, 0, narrow and rounded, passes along the groove in the humerus, and through the shoulder joint, to be attached to the top of the glenoid articular surface of the scapula. The muscle is shown lower in the arm in Plate iv. Coraco-lrachialis, K. It arises from the coracoid process of the scapula, and the tendon of the short head of the biceps; and it is inserted into the inner side of the shaft of the humerus about midway between the ends. Its upper extremity lies beneath the pectoralis major; its insertion is concealed by the brachial vessels; and the intermediate part (belly) is subcutaneous in the arm-pit, and serves as the guide to the axillary vessels. Through the fleshy fibres of the muscle the musculo-cutaneous nerve, 11, is transmitted. ♦ The student will find the state of the muscles in dislocations of the shoulder joint fully treated in the article, Abnormal Conditions of the Shoulder Joint, in the Cyclopcedia of A natomy and Physiology, by Robert Adams, Esq., 1849.