Ill NERVES OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. brane to the back of the wrist, where it swells into a reddish gangliform body, 7, under the tendons of the common extensor^ and gives oifsets to the articulations. All the muscles of the deep layer, and those of the superficial layer, except these three anconeus, long supinator, and long radial extensor of the wrist—receive branches from this nerve. As the nerve supplies the extensors and supinators of the forearm, injury or disease of it may be attended by paralysis of those muscles ; and as the flexor and pronator muscles in front, supplied by diflTerent nerves (median and ulnar), would then be unopposed in their action, they would determine the position of the limb. Consequently, after the function of the nerve is de- stroyed, the hand would be pronated, the wrist bent, and the fingers semiflexed by the action of the anterior group of muscles on the joints. This state of the limb is seen in the colic of painters. With the subjoined concise notice of the general arrangement of the muscles, vessels, and nerves of the arm, and of the similarity between the two limbs, the anatomy of the upper limb will be brought to an end. The upper has its counterpart in the lower limb ; and with the palm of the hand up, the front of the upper limb is represented by the back of the lower ; and the opposite. The movements of the joints have a close resemblance in the two members : but the scapula and radius, possessing special movements, are provided with some muscles which are not required in the buttock and the leg. As all the joints in the upper limb bend forwards, the flexors occupy the anterior, and the extensors the posterior surface ; contrary to their position in the lower limb on the opposite aspects of each segment. The vessels have a ramified distribution in the limbs—the branches diminishing in size, and increasing in number towards the digits, in the same way as the bones. The offsets of the artery, unobstructed by valves, join freely