57 ARTERIES OF THE SHOULDER. A knowledge of the attachments of the muscles to the upper part of the humerus will be serviceable in counteracting in frac- ture of that bone the displacement of the fragments. In fracture of the neck of the bone near the teres minor insertion the upper end, into which the three dorsal scapular muscles are inserted, will be fixed in the glenoid hollow, and tilted rather outwards. "Whilst the lower end will be inclined inwards towards the trunk by the latissimus dorsi, teres major, and pectoralis major, pulling in the direction of their fibres; and it will be finally carried up- wards inside the upper fragment by the contraction of the muscles coming from the scapula to the humerus, viz., deltoid, coraco- brachialis, and triceps. In an oblique fracture lower down (about opposite N on the deltoid) the relative position of the fragments to each other would be reversed. In that case the upper fragment will be drawn in- wards towards the trunk by the latissimus, teres major, and pectoralis major; but though the lower end of the humerus will be elevated by the muscles descending from the scapula, as before said, it will be placed outside the upper end by the power of the deltoid muscle alone. ARTERIES OF THE SHOULDER. The shoulder possesses few vessels in comparison with some other parts. Two small arteries with their veins are met with in this region, and they are derived from the axillary trunk. The posterior circumflex artery, a, one of the lowest branches of the axillary trunk (Plate i. h), appears between the humerus and the long head of the triceps; and winding forwards round the shaft of the humerus, it is distributed to the under surface of the deltoid muscle. It supplies chiefly the deltoid, but offsets enter also the teres minor, and the long head of the triceps. Some branches are given to the head of the humerus, and anastomose in front with the anterior circumflex. A cutaneous off'set descends to the in- teguments over the deltoid. In the operation of amputation at the shoulder-joint the as- sistant follows the knife with his hands to seize the large axillary