107 DEEP MUSCLES OF THE FOREAEM. The supinator Irevis, A, nearly encircles the upper part of the radius, and is the highest of the deep muscles. It arises from the ulna below the small sigmoid notch, from the orbicular liga- ment of the radius, and from the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint. The fibres curve forwards and downwards, and are inserted into the radius so as to cover that bone as low as the pronator teres, except along a triangular surface on the inner side : the lowest fibres taper to a point externally, and the highest enclose the neck of the radius. The connections of the supinator with muscles, vessels, and nerves, are numerous and complicated. An anterior view of the muscle is given in Plate ix. Perforating the muscular fibres is the posterior interosseous nerve ; and the posterior interosseus artery appears at the lower border. The muscle turns the upper end of the radius backwards, and supinates the hand. It is the direct antagonist with the biceps of the pronator teres; and in consequence of the attachment of both muscles near the upper end of the radius, they keep the upper fragment supinated in fracture of the shaft of the bone. Extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, B, the largest of the thumb extensors, arises from both bones of the forearm, and from the interosseous membrane, viz., from three inches of the radius below the supinator, and from a narrowed surface of the ulna of about the same length, and close to the outer edge. In company with the next extensor it occupies the outer com- partment of the annular ligament; and it is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and into the os trapezium (Theile). It moves the thumb out of the hollow of the hand towards the radius, hence the origin of the term abductor which has been given to it. After the thumb is drawn backwards, the muscle will assist in the extension of the radial side of the wrist. The extensor primi internodii pollicis, C, is the smallest of the extensors, and arises from one bone and the interosseous mem- brane—being attached to the posterior surface of the radius for about an inch, but to rather more of the membrane. After pass- ing through the annular ligament, the muscle is inserted into the