DISSECTIOIT OF THE ARM. 30 the outside. The swell of the muscle serves as a guide to the brachial artery along its inner edge. The deep fascia, or the aponeurosis of the limb, invests closely the arm, and is pierced here and there by the nerves and vessels of the integuments. Its component fibres take different directions, some being transverse, others oblique ; and it is joined at spots by offsets from the tendons of the muscles. One such offset, added to it from the tendon of the biceps in front of the bend of the elbow, gives it increased strength between the deep artery, Z, and the superficial median basilic vein, g. On each side of the arm is a thickened part, which is fixed to the humerus between the flexor and extensor muscles, and is called intermuscular septum : these processes are attached to the condy- loid ridges of the bone ; and the inner one, best developed, is marked by the letter D. JSTear the bend of the elbow, where the piece of the fascia is reflected, the contiguity of the underlying brachial artery may be observed. The fascia is prolonged over the muscles to the forearm ; and appearing through it below the elbow is a well-marked yellow line, I, pointing to an intermuscular space which contains the upper end of the radial vessels. Straightening the elbow-joint increases, and bending the joint relaxes the tightness of the fascia. So the pain consequent on tension of the fascia from accumulation of blood or other fluid beneath it, or from swelling of the parts enclosed by it, may be relieved by placing the limb in a bent position. Great irregularity prevails in the arrangement of the superficial veins in front of the elbow. The condition of them depicted in the Plate is not quite usual, though it is sufiSciently regular for the purpose of describing their anatomy. SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF THE ELBOW. a. Median vein of the forearm. h. Anterior ulnar veins, c. Posterior ulnar veins. d. Radial vein of the forearm. /, Median cephalic vein. g. Median basilic vein. h. Basilic vein of the arm. k. Cephalic vein of the arm.