DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 32 superficial to the vein. In the line of the yellow space, I, under the fascia, the brachial artery, I, crosses underneath the median basilic vein, the two being separated only by the aponeurosis of the limb somewhat thickened by the prolongation fi'om the tendon of the biceps. This vein being well supported underneath, the current of blood in it can be readily stopped by the thumb or finger, or by a band round the arm above the elbow compressing the basilic vein. The lasilic vein, h, begins at the point of union of the median basilic, g, with the posterior ulnar veins, c. Ascending through the lower part of the arm in the groove or depression inside the biceps, it sinks under the fascia half way up the arm, and becomes the axillary vein. The cejjhalic vein of the arm, ^, formed, as before said, by the junction of the median cephalic,/, with the radial vein, con- tinues on the outer side of the biceps as far as the shoulder, and ends in the axillary vein. See Plate ii., I. Blood-letting is practised commonly in the veins in front of the elbow. Either the median basilic, g, or the median cephalic,/, is selected for venesection according to its size ; and the median basilic is most frequently opened in consequence of its being the largest, and on • account of the readiness with which it may be fixed and compressed against the firm supporting parts beneath. If the operation is to be performed by the student for the first time, the following directions may be of use. To stop the flow of blood in the superficial veins, a narrow band or fillet is to be tied around the arm from two to thi'ee inches above the elbow. This band should not be drawn too tightly, as moderate pressure will arrest the current of blood in the veins ; and too great tightness will compress the brachial artery in thin persons, and prevent the free entrance of the blood into the limb below the elbow. After the bandage has been applied, the state of the arteries should be examined, to ascertain that the pulse beats with the same force and frequency as in the other arm ; for if the pressure diminishes the current of blood in the main artery, a full stream will not be maintained through the opening made into the vein.