28 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. plexus, and supply the pectoral muscles : the small pectoral receives its offsets at the under surface from the nerve marked 4. Is^erve to the serratus maf/nus, 5, comes from the plexus above the clavicle, and may be seen ramifying in its muscle. Nerve to the laiissimus dor si, C, enters opposite the axilla the under surface of its muscle. The nerve to the teres major and subscapular is, 10, belongs specially to the first muscle, giving only a small piece to the latter ; for the subscapularis is supplied higher up in the axilla by an offset of the plexus. The remaining branches of the brachial plexus are continued to the upper limb, viz. The small internal cutaneous, 9, (nerve of Wrisberg), com- municates in the axilla with the second intercostal nerve, 8. The musculo-cutaneous, 11, pierces the coraco-brachialis. The median, 12, the ulnar, 13, and the large internal cutaneous, 14, lie by the side of the axillaiy artery, and will be traced afterwards in the limb. The remaining two branches of the plexus, circum- flex and musculo-spiral, are concealed by the great axillary vessels. RemarJcs on the plexus.—A tumour in the axilla compressing ' any of the surrounding nerves may occasion pain or dulness of feeling, according to the degree of injury, in the part to which the nerve or nerves affected by it may be distributed. In dislocation downwards of the humerus into the arm-pit, the head of the bone pressing on the nerves which lie along its inner side, occasions the pain or numbness in the limb. In the flap amputation of the shoulder joint, the large vessels and nerves are cut last as the knife forms the flap on the inner side : and the nerves, not contracting after division like the other structures, reach to the end of the flap, and may be involved in the cicatrix left after the wound is healed, if they are not cut shorter. One lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax, 8, has been left to show its connections with the nerve of Wrisberg, 9. Sending a communicating offset to this nerve in the axilla, it is con- tinued onwards to the integuments of the arm as the intercosto- humeral.