DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 90 the artery ; or, as is more commonly done, by stopping the currents in the radial and ulnar trunks by pressure above the wrist, and by applying a graduated compress to the seat of injury. If, when the orifice of the artery has not been secured by a thread, pressure has been found ineffectual in stopping the bleeding, ligature of the ulnar artery, or of this and the radial, would have to be performed in addition to a compress to the wound. But there is an occasional condition of the vessels, which renders the arrest of the haemorrhage difficult unless the artery is tied in the wound. For instance, a third artery, sometimes as large as either the radial or the ulnar, may join the middle or the outer part of the superficial palmar arch, so a-s to bring blood freely to the wound. And as this vessel (usually an offset of the anterior interosseous, but sometimes of the brachial or the radial*) courses with the median nerve beneath the annular ligament, and generally beneath the muscles, pressure would not be productive of much benefit in stopping the current in it, and ligature of it would be scarcely practicable. Recurring bleeding with the existence of this state of the vessels would be quite uncontrollable by means which would arrest it when the ordinary arrangement existed. As the state of the palmar wound is sometimes unfavourable to any attempt to place a ligature on the vessel there, and as surgeons have a reasonable disinclination to enlarge wounds of the palm to search for the bleeding orifice, ligature of the brachial trunk has been practised when the bleeding resists the usual means of stopping it. The following case, illustrative of the inefficacy of securing the main trunk of the limb at a distance from the wound when a large branch joins the arch directly, as in the condition stated above, is instructive. " A young man wounded his palmar arch: secondary haemorrhage took place several times ; the radial and ulnar were tied, but the bleeding returned ; an artery of some size, a ' vas aberrans,' was discovered beating in the middle of the forearm, close under the * Examples of these conditions of the arteries, collected chiefly by Mr. Quain, are contained in the museum of University College, London.