96 DISSECTION" OF THE HAND. arises from the two bones bounding the metacarpal space, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal phalanx, chiefly into the bone, though it joins also the extensor tendon by a fibrous process. The first or most external, which is sometimes called abductor indicis, is the largest : it is marked by N. These muscles act as abductors of the fore and ring fingers from the middle one; and they can move the last-mentioned digit to each side of a line passing lengthwise through it. The first may adduct the metacarpal bone of the thumb to that of the index finger. The palmar set, only three in number, lie in the three inner spaces; and the middle finger does not receive any of this set. Arising from the metacarpal bone of the finger to which each belongs, they are inserted, like the dorsal, into the nearest phalanx of the fingers; each has but a slight attachment to the bone, blending most with the extensor tendon.* When acting they bring together the separated fingers, and will draw the fingers, into which they are inserted, viz., the fore, ring, and little, towards the middle digit. DEEP ARTERIES OF THE HAND. The radial artery ends in the palm of the hand by forming an arch ; and it furnishes arteries to the digit and a half left un- supplied by the ulnar trunk. It enters likewise into numerous communications with offsets of the ulnar artery. a. Deep palmar arch. h. Profunda branch of the ulnar artery, c. Large artery of the thumb. cl. Digital artery to the radial side of the fore finger. e Communicating branch to the deep arch from the digital artery to the little finger. /, /. Two inner interosseous ar- teries. h, Ji. Offsets to lumbrical muscles. Radial artery. Passing into the hand through the first inter- osseous space, it furnishes digital arteries to the thumb and the fore finger, and ends in the deep palmar arch. * This difference in the insertion of the dorsal and palmar sets, is stated by Theile in the work on the muscles before quoted, p. 286.