71 DISSECTION OF THE FROXT OF THE FOREARM. to the styloid process of the radius will mark the course of the vessel on the front of the forearm. In the iqjper half the forearm the artery is concealed by the supinator longus;* and it rests in succession on the supinator brevis, pronator teres, C, and flexor sublimis digitorum, F. Yense comites lie on the sides of the artery. But no nerve is in contact with it—the radial being placed too far out. This part of the artery may be superficial to the long supinator, lying even in the integuments, when there is an unusual origin from the brachial. In the lower half o1 the forearm the vessel is not covered by muscle, but is contained in a hollow between the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis, E, and supinator longus, L. Only the common teguments cover the vessel here. It is supported by part of the flexor sublimis, F, flexor longus pollicis, H, and lower down by the pronator quadratus and the end of the radius. The usual veins surround the artery. The radial nerve, 3, is at some little distance outside the vessel, and becomes cutaneous behind the tendon of the supinator longus. The offsets of the radial artery are for the most part small, but near the elbow and wrist they acquire greater size. Xo one is large enough usually to interfere with the placing a ligature on the trunk. Ligature of the radial artery.—In the upper half the vessel would not require to be tied in the living body unless it was wounded. In seeking it amongst the tissues infiltrated with blood the supinator longus, and the line of the vessel, will serve as material aids to the surgeon. In the lower third of the forearm, the radial may be secured for a wound in the palm of the hand. With a cut about one inch and a half long the integuments and superficial veins and nerves are to be divided in the line of the vessel. The fascia may be * lu Anatomical Plates the radial artery is usually delineated, with the supinator longus removed from it, as if the vessel was uncovered by muscle iu the upper half of the forearm. In this Plate the muscle is shown covering the artery, as it exists before it is displaced, to impress upon the memory the fact that where the radial is so protected it cannot be easily injured.