DEEP ARTERIES OF THE HAND. 97 The digital artery of the thwrib, c (art. magna pollicis), courses along the metacarpal bone, and divides into two branches near the joint between that bone and the phalanx: these supply the sides of the thumb, and join at the tip in the usual way. The digital artery of the index finger, d (art. radialis indicis), lies along the second metacarpal bone ; and issuing from beneath the adductor pollicis, H, runs on the radial border of its digit to the extremity, where it anastomoses with the digital artery from the superficial palmar arch. Sometimes it joins the superficial palmar arch through a branch, g, Fig. I. The deep palmar arch, a, is the curve formed by the end of the radial artery. It reaches from the first to the fourth interosseous space, but placed near the carpus, and is rather convex forwards, like the superficial arch. At the inner end it communicates with the profunda branch, l, of the ulnar; and with the branch, e, belonging to the digital artery of the inner side of the little finger. The arch has a deep position in the hand;—internally it is covered by the adductor minimi digiti, L; externally by the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis, F; and between these, by the flexor tendons: it rests on the three middle metacarpal bones, and their intervening muscles. Offsets of the arch.—From the concavity small offsets are directed back to the carpus. Three small perforaVmg arteries pierce the three inner dorsal interosseous muscles to reach the back of the hand. The chief branches are described below:— Interosseous branches, ff—Only two of these now appear, and the third lies beneath the adductor pollicis: they extend to the clefts of the flngers, giving muscular twigs, and end by joining the digital arteries of the superficial arch. Muscular Iranches, h, h, supply the two or three inner lumbrical muscles. Through the communication of the radial with the ulnar artery at the inner side of the hand, blood would find its way directly into the superficial palmar arch, after ligatm^e of the ulnar trunk above the wrist; and by means of the anastomoses between the branches of the two arteries (p. 89), the blood would be conveyed from the superficial to the deep arch.