DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 36 largement cannot be controlled by pressure. And the operation suited for the cure of the disease would be that of opening the tumour, and applying a ligature above and below the wound in the artery. If the tumour is somewhat solidified by the deposi- tion of laminated fibrin in it, Hgature of the brachial artery in the middle third of the arm would be had recourse to by some surgeons. But the safer practice seems to consist in tying the vessel at the wounded part as a rule ; and this treatment would be most suitable also for aneurism connected with a wound of the radial or the uhiar artery in consequence of its unusual origin, and its superficial position in the fat in front of the elbow. Pro- fessor Syme advocates cutting down upon the tumour in aneurism from a wound of the brachial in front of the elbow. He says: " I have treated all the aneurisms at the bend of the arm, resulting from wound of the humeral artery through venesection, which have come under my care, amounting to ten in number, by opening the sac, and applying ligatures on both sides of the aperture."* In the aneurismal varix equable pressure on the limb, which will check the arterial blood entering the tube of the vein to any great extent, may do away with the necessity of any operative proceeding. Should the disease be a source of suffering, and interfere with the use of the arm, as in a labouring man for example, it may be readily cured by ligature of the artery at the part wounded. In venesection puncture of a nerve will sometimes cause great pain. In the Plate several branches of the internal cutaneous nerve cross the median basilic vein, and any of these might be injured ; but as their position cannot be ascertained during life, no precaution can be taken to avoid them. Commonly the punc- ture occasions only pain at the time of bleeding, though in some conditions of the body it may give origin to serious general dis- turbance of the health. Inflammation of the vein or phlebitis may result from bleeding; it will require the treatment appropriate to that affection. * The Paper on the Treatment of Aneurism before referred to. Medico- Chirm'gical Transactions, 1860.