MUSCLES OF THE THORAX AND ARM. 10 From the direction of its fibres the muscle is chiefly employed in moving forwards the scapula over the ribs ; and, when the scapula is fixed, it will act on the ribs so as to draw them out- wards, and increase the size of the chest in inspiration. Ifc supports, too, the lower end of the scapula whilst a weight is caiTied on the shoulder. Latissimus dorsi, C. The oblique direction of this muscle behind the axilla, converging with the pectoralis major to the insertion into the humerus, is more fully seen in this than in the preceding dissection. The chief notice of this muscle is given with the explanation of Plate i. Siidclavius, S. This small muscle is contained in a sheath of the costo-coracoid membrane, of which a piece has been cut away near the inner end. Named from the position to the clavicle, its origin is attached to the first rib, and its insertion is fixed into the grooved under surface of the clavicle. It can depress the clavicle or elevate the first rib, according as the one or the other bone may be in a state to be moved. The shoulder muscles coming into view in this dissection are, the subscapularis, teres major, and deltoid. The SKbsccqjuIaris, H, arises from the hollowed costal surface of the scapula; and its fibres are directed outwards and upwards over the shoulder joint to their insertion into the small tuberosity and the neck of the humerus. By its lower edge it projects much beyond the scapula, and touches the latissimus dorsi and teres major. The subscapularis supports internally the shoulder joint, of which it is one of the articular muscles. When the arm is raised, the subscapularis assists in depressing it; and the hanging limb is rotated inwards by the muscle. This muscle is injured in the following dislocations of the humerus. When the bone is forced into the lower part of the axilla, it may either be covered by the subscapularis; or may be di'iven through the muscular fibres, and, coming into contact with, press upon the mass of the axillary vessels and nerves. In the forward dislocation on the inner side of the cervix of the scapula, the head of the bone passes between the subscapularis c 2