DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 42 drawing backwards that bone, acts as an antagonist to the flexor muscles. A. Fascia of the forearm. B. Offset to the fascia from the tendon of the biceps. (ij--^u.^ C. Inner intermuscular septum of the arm. D. Biceps flexor brachii muscle. F. Brachialis anticus muscle. H. Coraco-brachialis muscle. K. Inner head of the triceps exten- sor muscle, M. Middle head of the triceps. N. Teres major muscle. P. Latissimus dorsi muscle. R. Pectoralis major muscle. S. Deltoid muscle, The deep fascia of the arm is continuous with that of the fore- arm, A, and is attached to the prominences around the elbow. C marks the inner intermuscular septum of the arm, which is inserted into the condyloid ridge of the humerus, and gives origin in front to the brachialis anticus, F, and behind to the inner head of the triceps, K. In front of the septum a piece of the fascia has been left with superficial lymphatic glands on it. At B, an offset from the tendon of the biceps joins the fascia. Biceps Irachii muscle, D. The origin by two heads from the scapula, is shown in Plate ii. Half way along the arm the heads blend in a fleshy belly ; and the muscle is inserted below by a tendon into the tubercle of the radius, after giving a fibrous process, B, to the deep fascia. A third slip or head arises occa- sionally from the middle of the humerus ; and if it crosses over the main vessels, as it is directed outwards, it may complicate the operation of tying the artery. Except at the origin and insertion the muscle is superficial; and it covers partly the other two muscles in front of the humerus, viz., the coraco-brachialis, H, and brachialis anticus, F. Along the inner edge lie the brachial artery, 1c, and the accompanying veins and nerves ; and along the outer edge is the cephalic vein, h. The muscle flexes the elbow-joint by acting on either the radius or the humerus, according as the one or the other may be free to be moved. It is also a supinator of the hand. And if the radius is fijced it can assist in carrying the limb forwards from the side. As the muscle contracts in the living body the swell of its belly rises towards the pectoralis major.