24 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. marked by a line over the surface of the pectoralis raajor, which has been described already (p. 21). The surface depressions on the sides of the clavicular attach- ment of the pectoralis major being taken as the limit of the incisions, the operator divides by a transverse cut near the clavicle the integuments and the thin platysma muscle, and afterwards the clavicular part of the pectoralis, looking for the cephalic vein at the outer edge of the muscle. "When the thick fleshy fibres of the pectoral muscle are cut through, the subjacent fat with small veins, arteries, and nerves, ramifying in it, will appear. TVith much caution the surgeon finds his way amidst these dangers to the axillary sheath, Y, which he opens to the necessary extent. In the bottom of the wound the firm white brachial plexus of nerves will conduct now to the arteiy deeply placed between, and overlapped by the nerves and the axillary vein. The artery will be recognised by its pulsation, feel, and colour; and when it is detached from the contiguous parts, the operator may enter the aneurism needle between the vein and arteiy, so that the point of the instrument may be directed towards the nerves as it turns under the arterial trunk. Aneurism of the upper part of the axillaiy artery is a formid- able disease. It may be confined to the axilla, enlarging forwards and backwards where there is least resistance, or it may pass the bounds of that space, and project above the clavicle into the neck. As long as the disease is low on the vessel, and is confined to the axilla, ligature of the end of the subclavian artery has been resorted to in its treatment. But when it rises above the collar- bone, and the subclavian operation is rendered unsuitable or impracticable, surgeons have sometimes had recourse to the extreme measure of amputating the limb at the shoulder-joint, as there " seemed to be no alternative," to use the words of Professor Syme. In the last-mentioned class of cases, which are so embarrassing to treat. Professor Syme recommends, that the aneurism should be laid open, and the contents removed, as in the old plan of opera- ting on blood-tumours. From the result of two cases treated successfully in this way, he hopes that "axillaiy aneurism not