BRANCHES OF THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 49 not in contact with each other : thus, one, the smallest (radial) may lie in the place of the brachial trunk ; and the other, the larger artery, may be moved inwards from the edge of the biceps to the inner intermuscular septum. The depth of the artery varies with different states of the biceps muscle. Sometimes the brachial trunk is covered, at the spot where ligature is practised, by a fleshy slip of origin of the biceps from the humerus. The presence of fleshy fibres over the artery would cause some embarrassment to an operator unac- quainted with that fact ; and the knowledge of the occasional existence of this condition teaches, that a previous examination of the arm should be made, with the view of detecting it by the diflPerence in the force of the pulsations of the artery. Change in the position of the median nerve with respect to the brachial artery may bring danger in an operation, as the nerve serves as the deep guide to the vessel. In the ordinary arrange- ment the nerve is superficial to the artery, and is met with first; but not unfrequently it crosses under the artery, and would not -be found so soon as the vessel. When this last named position of the nerve exists, the danger of wounding the artery or its com- panion veins is increased in consequence of these being nearer the surface, and being reached unexpectedly. Branches of the artery.—The offsets of the artery are small and numerous, but only a few have received names. After supplying the muscles and contiguous parts the chief branches course to the elbow, and join offsets of the trunks in the forearm. The superior profunda tramh arises from the trunk of the artery above the letter, ^, and winds to the back of the arm, where it ramifies in the triceps, and ends at the elbow. (See Plate vii.) One offset is marked, m, in the Drawing. The inferior profunda, n, arises near the spot which is com- monly chosen for ligature of the trunk, and runs along the ulnar nerve to the elbow : it anastomoses with the posterior recurrent branch of the ulnar artery. The nutritive artery of the shaft of the humerus arises between Tc, and *, and entering an osseous canal, supplies the medullary structure of the bone. E