ARTERIES OF THE FOREARM. 75 carefully cut for the same extent. After the sheath has been opened and separated from its contents in the usual way, the aneurism needle may be carried round the artery. As this part of the radial is so superficial the student, when first practising the operation, cuts oftentimes, not only the cover- ings of the limb, but also the artery. If the vessel is tied for a wound near the wrist two ligatures should be applied, although the size is so small, on account of the free communication of the radial with the ulnar artery in the palm of the hand. Branches of the artery.—Small unnamed muscular and cuta- neous offsets leave the trunk of the artery at intervals; and larger named branches arise near the beginning and ending. The recurrent radial ascends under cover of the supinator longus, and anastomoses on the outer part of the elbow with the superior i^rofunda (Plate xii.): it supplies some of the outer group of muscles. The superficial volar Iranch, g, descends to the hand across or through the short muscles of the thumb. When small, it ends in those muscles (Quain); and when larger, it joins the superficial palmar arch (Plate x.). With this vessel of very unusual size a wound of it might require it to be tied. The anterior carpal branch (Plate ix. cl), which is generally so small as not to deserve notice, arises near the wrist, and is lost on the carpus. Muscular and cutaneous branches arise at tolerably regular intervals. One to the integuments is marked by c. From a muscular branch near the wrist a twig entered the median nerve. The ulnar artery, h, is concealed almost entirely by muscles whilst it is in the forearm, only a small part near the wrist being visible before the natural position of the flexor carpi ulnaris has been disturbed.* And the part of the artery, which is repre- * In Plates of the vessels of the forearm, where the ulnar artery is laid bare j to view in the lower third or more, the flexor carpi ulnaris has been drawn aside in the dissection. This rather deep condition of the artery should be 1 kept in mind in any attempt to put a ligature on it. i