MOVEMENT OF THE RADIUS. 79 It acts on the radius, moving the lower end round the ulna so as to put down the palm of the hand. Movement of the radius.—The rotatory motion of the hand is due to the movement forwards and backwards of the lower end of the radius over the ulna. When that bone is brought for- wards the palm of the hand is placed down, or the limb is pro- nated; and when the bone is moved back the dorsum of the hand is turned towards the ground, and the member is supinated. The pronator muscles are in front, and passing from the inner side of tlie limb, draw forwards the radius ; while the supinators, which turn back the bone, are placed on both the front and hinder part of the limb. The action of the supinators will be given with the description of Plate xii. Two pronators are connected with the radius;—one, pronator teres of the superficial layer, being attached about midway between the ends ; and the other, pronator quadratus, of the deep layer, is fixed into the lower part. Both are therefore inserted below the upper half of the bone; and during their contraction the lower end of the radius is moved over the ulna—the upper end not changing its position to that bone, but rotating in its band like a wheel. And as the active supinators (supinator brevis and biceps) are fixed to the upper part of the radius, their influence on the lower end is neutralised as soon as the bone is broken through at or near the middle ; so that the lower frag- ment can be then moved forwards without obstacle by the action of the pronators. Fracture of the radius near or below the middle is attended by pronation of the hand, and by displacement of the lower fragment, in consequence of the action of one or both of the pronators, and of the weight of the hand articulated to the radius. But the upper fragment of the broken bone does not change its place; it remains on the outer side of the ulna, though tilted away from that bone by the action of the supinators. Readjustment of the displaced lower fragment will be made by supinating the hand, for this movement carries back at the same time the lower end of the broken radius into contact with the upper. Future displacement of the lower fragment will be prevented if the