9 BRANCHES OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. plexus, as referred to above, it Avill be nearer the vein and the surface than it is usually. In the treatment of aneurism of the lower end of the axillary trunk Professor Syme has recently recommended a return to the old practice of opening the sac, and after removing the contents, putting a thread around the vessel above and below the sac. In a postscript to a communication published in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions* he says :—"On the 15th of August, in accordance with the principles above explained, I performed the old operation for aneurism, not traumatic, at the lower part of the axilla, in a gentleman about tifty, recommended to my care by Dr. Embleton, of Embleton in Northumberland. The patient returned home on the 5th of September." Branches of the artery. The lower part of the axillary artery supplies the following branches to the wall of the chest and the shoulder. Long thoracic artery^ lies in the axilla along the angle formed by the meeting of the anterior and inner boundaries, and may be injured by a cut made along the anterior axillary fold. Its origin is concealed by the pectoralis major. Alar thoracic branch^ cl. This small artery to the arm-pit was present in this body, though it is generally absent (Quain). It is distributed to some of the glands, and to the fat of the axilla. The subscapular artery, f, is the largest offset, and arises oppo- site tKe'edge of the subscapularis muscle. Taking the border of the muscle as its guide, it reaches the chest, to which and the shoulder it is distributed. A companion vein and nerve run with it, and all are secured from external injury by the projecting margin of the latissimus dorsi. Many offsets enter glands and the contiguous muscles ; and one, g, larger than the rest, is the dorsal scapular artery. The posterior circumflex artery, h, arises close beyond the pre- ceding, and winds behind the humerus to the shoulder with the nerve, 12, of the same name. Its distribution is represented in Plate V. * On the Treatment of Axillary Aneimsm, by James Syme, F.R.S. Edin., vol. 43, p. 143 : London, 1860.