88 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. these, connected with the deep flexor, is shown in the opened sheath of the ring finger. In the thumb and the little finger the synovial membrane of the sheath is continued upwards into a large synovial sac which surrounds the tendons of both fiexors beneath the annular ligament SUPERFICIAL ARTERIES OF THE HAND. The arrangement of the superficial palmar arch and its offsets, which is described as the usual one, is figured here, but many hands were examined before this condition was found. The arteries to the thumb and the radial side of the fore finger will be described in the explanation of Fig. ii. a. Ulnar artery in the forearm. I. Radial artery in the forearm. c. Superficial jjalmar arch, d. Superficial volar branch, /. Four digital branches of the superficial palmar arch. g. Communicating artery from the palmar arch to the radial branch of the index finger. 7^. Communicating branch to the deep arch from the digital artery of the little finger. The ulnar artery, a, enters the hand over the annular ligament, and curving towards the ball of the thumb forms the superficial palmar arch : it supplies branches to the greater number of the digits. The superficial palmar arch—the continuation of the ulnar artery—lies across the hollow of the hand, between the lower border of the annular ligament and the ball of the thumb. With its convexity towards the fingers, it reaches nearly as far forwards as a line, across the palm, from the middle of the fold between the thumb and the fore finger. Diminishing in size, it ends externally by joining branches of the radial, viz., the superficial volar branch, cl, pretty constantly, and the branch to the radial side of the fore finger (Fig. ii., d) occasionally, by means of the small communicating branch, g. At its inner end the arch is covered by the palmaris brevis muscle. A, and thence to the ball of the thumb, by the integu- ments and the palmar fascia; it rests on the tendons of the fiexors of the digits, and on the ulnar and median nerves.