21 ARTERIES OF THE AXILLA. If the limb is in a state of abduction, it can be brought to the side of the chest by this muscle. The costo-coracoid membrane, Y, is a rather strong laj'er of fascia between the upper limb and the neck, and is placed there apparently for the purpose of protecting the large blood-vessels. Occupying the interval between the first rib and the coracoid process, it is fixed above to the clavicle before and behind the subclavius muscle which it incases. Below it blends with the special sheath (axillary) of the blood-vessels, giving to this additional strength; and it is continued onwards beneath the small pectoral muscle, where it gradually ceases. The axillary sheath around the vessels and nerves coming from the neck to the upper limb, consists in part of a prolongation from the deep fascia of the neck, and in part of a stronger layer added from the costo-coracoid membrane. It resembles the crural sheath around the blood-vessels of the lower limb, and is funnel- shaped like that tube. In it are the axillary artery and vein, and the brachial plexus; and piercing the front are branches of those trunks, viz., the cephalic vein, the acromial thoracic artery, c, and anterior thoracic nerves, 2, 3. In a dissection of the axillary sheath the tube is to be opened in the manner shown in the drawing, to see the position to each other of the contained blood- vessels and the brachial plexus of nerves. ARTERIES OF THE AXILLA. The connections of the trunk of the axillary artery, and the distribution of most of its branches, can be studied in Plate ii. a. Axillary artery. c. External mammary branch. h. Superior thoracic branch. /. Subscapular branch. c. Acromial thoracic branch. g. Dorsal branch of the sub- d. Long thoracic branch. scapular. The axillary artery, a, crosses from the chest to the arm through the axilla ; and is limited above by the lower border of the subclavius muscle, S., and below by the lower edge of the teres major, D. Without dissection, the situation of the vessel may be indicated by a line, on the surface of the body, from a point of