31 SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF THE ELBOW. The median vein, a, lies along the middle of the forearm, and divides near the bend of the elbow into two, viz., an outer, the median cephalic vein, /; and an inner, the median basilic vein, g, into which the other veins of the forearm open. At its ending the median communicates with a deep vein through the fascia. Anterior and posterior ulnar, veins, h, and c, gather the blood from the opposite surfaces of the inner half of the forearm, and both join the median basilic, g,—the anterior ulnar entering about the middle, and the posterior ulnar at the ending of that vein. The radial vein, d, ramifies on the back, and outer part of the forearm, and opens into the end of the median cephalic, /. Often- times this vein is very small; or it may be wanting. The median cephalic vein, f, reaches from the point of splitting of the median, a, to the outer border of the limb, where it unites with the radial, d, and forms the large cephalic vein, Jc. It crosses the limb obliquely in the hollow between the prominent biceps and the external muscles of the forearm. Underneath it lies the large external cutaneous nerve, 3, and over it pass some offsets of the same nerve. Generally this vein is the smallest of the two pieces into which the median divides, and is sometimes absent. A moderately tight bandage round the limb just above the elbow, as in the operation of bleeding, does not stop the flow of blood in the median cephalic vein in a muscular arm in conse- quence of the projection of the biceps arresting the pressure of the band. But the current of blood in the vessel may be com- manded by the thumb inserted into the hollow outside the biceps, and pressed downwards steadily. The median iasilic vein, g, is directed inwards from the median vein, a ; and uniting with the posterior ulnar veins, c, gives rise to the basilic vein, h. Usually longer and larger than the median cephalic, it is commonly more transverse in its direction, and is firmly supported by the subjacent fascia and muscle. Joining it below are the anterior ulnar veins. The chief branches of the large internal cutaneous nerve, 1, lie under, and smaller offsets over the vein ; but in this dissection the main part of the nerve was