DISSECTION OF THE SHOULDER. 54 scapular muscles, and from the lower edge of the scapula as far forwards as an inch from the long head of the triceps. It bounds the axilla behind, and lies in front of the long head of the triceps (Plates i. and ii.). The muscle diverges in front from the axillary border of the scapula, leaving a triangular interval between it and the bone; and it is concealed partly by the latissimus dorsi, E, when viewed from behind. The latissimus dorsi, E, is attached to the lower part of the trunk of the body by the one end, and to the humerus by the other. Winding over the lower angle of the scapula and the teres major, it ascends in front of the teres to its insertion into the bicipital groove (Plate ii.). In the dissection the muscle slipped down somewhat in conse- quence of its relaxed condition, but its natural place on the angle of the scapula is displayed in Plate vi. These two muscles could draw the arm to the scapula if the member was at a distance fi'om the trunk ; or if the limb was fixed, as in climbing, they would help to approximate the trunk to the raised limb. And when the latissimus has drawn the humerus backwards, it will rotate inwards that bone. If the lower end of the raised humerus is not free to move, this muscle acting with the teres and pectoralis major draws down the upper end, and may dislodge the head from the articular surface of the scapula. The dorsal scapular muscles, H, K, and L, cover the shoulder- joint above and behind, and converge to the head of the humerus. A deep fascia covers the muscles, and gives origin to the flesLy fibres: one piece dips between the two infra-spinous muscles, K and L, and is fixed to the scapula. The supra-s]jinatus muscle, H, fills the hollow above the spine of the scapula. Arising from the bone and the fascia, it passes over the shoulder-joint to be inserted into the upper impression on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The infraspinatus muscle, K, is named fi'om its position below the spine of the scapula. It arises, like the preceding, from the underlying bone and the fascia stretched over it; and, crossing the