23 LIGATURE OF THE AXILLARY. but concealed by it, the circumflex and musculo-spiral nerves— the former reaching only to the edge of the subscapularis muscle. Numler and position of the arterial offsets. Branches are dis- tributed internally to the thorax, and externally to the shoulder and arm. From the first part come two offsets, the highest thoracic, h, and acromial thoracic, c ; the first is small and irregular in its size and position; and the latter, much larger, springs close to the edge of the pectoralis. Only occasionally is there any named branch on the second part. Four or five branches spring from the third part of the parent trunk. The first of these, long thoracic, d, is close to the border of the pectoralis minor. The next or subscapular branch arises opposite the lower border of the subscapularis muscle. Two circumflex arteries take origin near the last, but they are con- cealed by the trunks of the axillary vessels. The last-named branch given off is the small external mammary, e. Ligature of the artery.—The axillary artery may be tied near the clavicle, as well as near the ending (p. 7). Near the clavicle, or above the small pectoral muscle, the vessel lies deeply, and is reached only after cutting through the pectoralis major. Two offsets, superior and acromial thoracic, spring usually from this part of the artery, with the supra-scapular (a branch of the subclavian) sometimes, and they leave scarcely interval enough for the application of a ligature, especially if the first is large. The connections also of the artery with superficial vessels and nerves are so complicated (see Plate) as to render hazardous ligature of it at this spot. The vessel might be tied in this situation for aneurism of the lower part of the arterial trunk, or for the arrest of haemorrhage after an operation high up the arm -; but the difficulties in securing the vessel, and the chances of recurring bleeding, may j almost deter a surgeon from having recourse to the operation, j Should it be necessary to ligature the artery here, a practical knowledge of the anatomy will assist the operator in his attempts to secure the vessel. With the arm outstretched, the position of the artery will be