25 AETERIES OF THE AXILLA. amenable to ligature of the subclavian artery may be remedied by the old oiDeration ;" and he thinks that, even in cases where ligature of the subclavian is practicable, the plan recommended may be preferable.* Branches of the artery. All the branches are distributed to the chest and the shoulder, and maintain the circulation in the limb when the parent vessel has been obliterated. The number of the named branches has been estimated differently by anatomists in consequence of their irregularity. The highest thoracic, b, is the smallest branch, and ends on the top of the chest above the pectoralis minor. The acromial thoracic, c (humeral thoracic, thoracic axis ?), supplies three sets of offsets, viz., external or acromial, internal or thoracic, and middle or ascending. The outer set enters the deltoid muscle ; the inner set is furnished to both pectoral muscles, a few twigs reaching the side of the chest; and the middle set courses over the axillary sheath to the subclavius, and the pectoral and deltoid muscles. The long thoracic branch, d, arises opposite the lower border of the small pectoral muscle, and courses along it to the fifth or sixth intercostal space, where it ends in the surrounding parts, and communicates with the intercostal arteries. In the female it supplies the breast. The subscapular, f, a large branch, passes along the muscle of the same name to the inferior angle of the scapula, and is dis- tributed by large branches to the contiguous muscles, serratus and latissimus, anastomosing in the first with the intercostals. Near its beginning the dorsal scapular branch, g, leaves it to supply the opposite surfaces of the scapula. See Plate v. Two circumflex arteries encircle the humerus, meeting on the outer side. Plate v. may be looked to for a delineation of them. Other muscular ofl'sets (not marked by letters of reference) enter the coraco-brachialis muscle. Two occasional branches are noticed below, viz., the alar thoracic and external mammary. * See a Paper, before referred to, on the Treatment of Aneurism, in the Medico-Chirnrgical Transactions of London for 1860.