DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE ARM, 60 The inner head, G, larger below than above, and concealed by the middle head, arises from the hinder surface of the humerus below the winding groove, extending laterally to the intermuscular septa, and upwards to the insertion of the teres major (Theile). See Plate vii. for its extensive origin. The middle or long head, H, reaches the inferior or axillary border of the scapula, from which it takes origin for about an inch. The outer and middle heads blend about the middle of the arm, but the inner one joins lower down. The muscle ends below in a wide, strong tendon, which receives deep fleshy fibres down to the elbow joint, and is inserted into the end of the olecranon process of the ulna—a small bursa lying between the tendon and the tip of that piece of bone. This muscle is represented in the thigh by the extensor muscle of the knee-joint. It is subcutaneous except above ; and it is separated laterally from the muscles in front of the humerus by processes of fascia—the intermuscular septa. The long head lies between the teres muscles. By the action of this muscle the elbow-joint will be extended; and supposing the limb removed from the body, it can be approxi- mated to the trunk by the long head. But should the upper limb be fixed at a distance from the side, the muscle can assist in moving the trunk (through the scapula) towards the fixed arm, as in dragging the body forwards by a rope. When the olecranon process of the ulna is detached by fracture, it is drawn upwards by the triceps, as far as the lower fleshy fibres of the muscle will allow, in the same manner as the upper frag- ment of the patella, in transverse fracture of that bone, is carried upwards by the extensor cruris. When replacing the displaced fragment force is not to be employed alone for tiie purpose of drawing it down towards the end of the ulna; but the interval is also to be diminished by moving backwards the shaft of the ulna by the extension of the elbow-joint. In dislocation forwards of the humerus the olecranon becomes very prominent behind the elbow, and the tendon of the extensor muscle stands out from that bone something like the tendo