78 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOKEARM. tiguous interosseous membrane ; and sometimes by a round slip, N, from the inner part of the coronoid process of the ulna. Its tendon passes beneath the annular ligament, X, and is conveyed along the thumb by a fibrous sheath to be inserted into the last phalanx. Most of the muscle is covered by the flexor sublimis, but part of it below is in contact with the radial artery where the pulse is felt. Between the upper attachments of this muscle and the supinator brevis, H, to the radius, is a narrow slip of the bone from which the flexor sublimis digitorum arises. The muscle bends the phalanges of the thumb, and brings the metacarpal bone towards the palm of the hand. It will flex the wrist after the digit. Flexor prof undus digitorwn, L (perforans). It arises from the anterior and inner surfaces of the shaft of the ulna as low as the pronator quadratus ; and other fibres spring from the membranes outside and inside the bony attachment, viz., from the interosseous membrane externally, and from an aponeurosis common to this muscle and the flexor carpi ulnaris internally. The fleshy fibres end in tendons which are united together above the wrist, only the most external being separate; and these, passing beneath the annular ligament, X, and across the hand, are inserted into the last phalanges of the fingers. See Plate x. On the sides of the muscle are the flexor longus pollicis, K, and flexor carpi ulnaris, Gr. On it rest the ulnar vessels, and the ulnar and median nerves. This muscle bends the last phalanx of each finger ; and con- tinuing its action it will aid in flexing the other phalanges and the wrist. The iwonator quadratus, P, lies beneath the preceding, and covers the lower ends of the bones of the forearm for about two inches, though more of the ulna than of the radius. Scarcely any part of the muscle is seen, but the interosseous nerve and artery pass beneath its upper edge, marking its extent upwards. It is covered by the other two muscles of the deep layer, and the radial vessels touch the outer edge, near the wrist.