ARTERIES AT THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. 109 ARTERIES AT THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. The posterior interosseous artery, and the ending of the anterior interosseous artery and some of its offsets, ramify amongst the muscles on the back of the forearm. Opposite the elbow joint the radial recurrent artery is directed backwards to the superficial muscles. a. Posterior interosseous artery. b. Recurrent interosseous. c. Communicating branch to the anterior interosseous. d. Continuation of the posterior interosseous artery. e, e. Perforating offsets of the ante- rior interosseous. /, /. Terminal parts of the anterior interosseous. g. Recurrent radial artery. h. Trunk of the radial artery. The posterior interosseous artery springs fi^om the common interosseous trunk in front of the limb (p. 83, Plate ix.), and bends back above the interosseous membrane. Appearing, behind, between the supinator. A, and extensor ossis metacarpi, B, it is directed between the superficial and deep strata of the muscles as far as the lower third of the forearm ; here it becomes superficial, and courses along^,tlie tendon of the extensor car^^^ulnaris, Gr, to the wrist, where it ends in offsets, which communicate with the anterior interosseous,/, and with the posterior carpal, (Plate xi.). Its named branches are recurrent and muscular. Muscular branches supply the deep layer, and the digital and ulnar extensors of the superficial layer; those to the superficial layer have been cut in detaching the muscles. The recurrent branch, d, ascends between the supinator. A, and anconeus, H ; and supplying both muscles, anastomoses with the superior profunda artery. (Plate vii.) The anterior interosseous artery, f, comes from the front, through an aperture in the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and ends on the back of the wrist, anastomosing with the posterior carpal and interosseous arteries ; it gives a considerable offset to the outer side of the wrist. Perforating branches of the anterior interosseous artery, e, e, three or four in number, pierce the interosseous membrane, and