83 NERVES OF THE FOREARM. Near the beginning, a small branch, anterior ulnar recurrent, ascends under the pronator teres to join the anastomotic branch. The interosseous artery arises near the preceding, and divides into two, anterior and posterior, for the front and back of the limb. The posterior is seen in Plate xii. The anterior interosseous, k, runs on the interosseous mem- brane between the two deep flexors as far as the pronator quadratus, P, where it passes through the membrane to end on the back of the wrist (Plate xii.): as the artery leaves the front of the limb it sends a branch on the interosseous membrane to the fore part of the wrist. It supplies branches to the deep muscles. Another offset median, n, ends in the median nerve and the flexor sublimis muscle: sometimes this last branch is large, and is continued with the nerve to join the palmar arch in the hand. A metacarpal Iranch proceeds along the inner edge of the meta- carpal bone of the little finger, on which it ends. A small anterior carpal Irancli takes origin opposite the lower edge of the pronator quadratus.: it joins the corresponding branch of the radial artery. Some cutaneous offsets pass forwards to the integuments at the outer edge of the flexor carpi ulnaris: three of these may be observed in Plate viii. NERVES OF THE FOREARM. The median and ulnar nerves supply the muscles on the front of the forearm, whilst the integuments receive nerves mostly from other trunks. The two have a marked difference in position when entering and leaving the forearm: thus above, the median is superficial in front of, and the ulnar is behind the elbow; but below, the median is deeply placed beneath the annular ligament, whilst the ulnar passes over the ligament. 1. Trunk of the median nerve. 2. Anterior interosseous branch. 3. Ulnar nerve. 4. Branches of ulnar nerve to flexor carpi uhiaris muscle. 5. Branch of ulnar nerve to flexor digitorum profundus. 6. Cutaneous palmar branch of the ulnar. 7. Palmar cutaneous nerve of the median.