LIGATURE OF THE BRACHIAL. 47 artery is the inner edge of the biceps muscle ; and the deep guide during the operation is the large median nerve. When the vessel is to be secured the operator stands on the inner side of the limb, and fixing his eye on the spot thus marked *, makes a cut two to three inches long on the biceps muscle near the inner edge, but not over the vessel. The skin, fat, and deep fascia are to be divided down to the fleshy fibres ; and the incision is then to be moved inwards over the line of the brachial artery, the loose skin readily allowing this shifting of its position. Bending now the elbow, to relax the biceps muscle and allow of its being kept out of the way, the firm median nerve is to be looked for close to the edge of the biceps, where it lies outside the vessel, or is coming inwards over the arterial trunk. The median nerve being found, and the knife having been carried along it to divide its sheath, is next to be drawn inwards from the edge of the biceps with a narrow retractor, but special care must be taken not to drag the artery out of place with the nerve. Within the space limited by the nerve on the one side and the muscle on the other, the operator seeks the artery by cutting away the fat bit by bit.f Supposing the artery recognised, its sheath is to be seized with the forceps, and a piece is to be cut out, care being taken that the point of the scalpel does not injure the vessel beneath. Without loosing the sheath from the forceps a blunt instrument, like the point of a director, may be inserted into the hole of the sheath to separate the artery; and on its withdrawal the aneurism needle is to be carried round the vessel in the same channel. The surgeon avoids detaching the artery from its sheath more than is required for the passage of the needle; for separation of the two destroys the vasa vasorum, occasioning the death of the + Some experience in superintending the operations of students on the dead body has convinced me of the expediency of directing the nerve to he drawn inwards. If this mode of proceeding is not adopted, the beginner comes upon the ulnar nerve and the basilic vein, which he may mistake for the median nerve and the brachial artery.