100 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOKEARM. P. Fibrous bands joining the ex- tensor tendons near the knuckles. S. Splitting of the extensor tendon. T. Insertion of the extensor tendon into the last phalanx. R. Expansion from the extensor tendon opposite the finger joints. V. Tendon of the indicator muscle. X. Posterior annular ligament. + Deep fascia of the arm. The sli'pinator lo7igus, B (" brachio-radialis," Soemmer.), is the most external muscle; it appears also in the anterior view of the forearm, with the description of which (Plate viii.) part of its anatomy has been given. Arising, as before said, from the upper two thirds of the condyloid ridge of the humerus, and from the intermuscular septum, it is inserted into the radius close to the root of the styloid process. Narrowed at the origin, it is widened below the elbow over the subjacent muscles forming the prominence on the outer side of the forearm. The anterior border touches the brachialis anticus, J, the biceps, A, and the pronator teres (Plate viii.); and the posterior edge is in contact with the extensor carpi radialis jongior, C, and with the extensor carpi radialis brevior,* D. Near its insertion the tendon is covered by the extensors of the thumb. This supinator acts mostly as a flexor of the elbow joint. If the hand is greatly pronated, the muscle can draw backwards the radius to a small extent; and if the hand is much supinated, the lower end of the radius will be moved somewhat forwards as in pronation: in both cases the hand is brought into a state mid- way between pronation and supination (Theile). * This projection backwards of the supinator so as to touch the extensor carpi radialis brevior is not referred to by anatomists of authority. It is not represented by Albinus in his standard work, Tabulfe Anatomicse Muscu- lorum Hominis. Lond. 1747 ; nor in the modern work of Bourgery and Jacob, Traitd complet de 1'Anatomic de I'Homme. Paris, 1833. Neither Theile, in his treatise on the muscles in Soemmerring's Anatomy (Lehre von den Muskelm, &c. Leipzig, 1841) ; nor Henle, in his recent Handbnch der Systematischen Anatomic des Menschen, Dritte Abtheilung, Braun- schweig, 1858, takes notice of the fact. Cruveilhicr is silent also respecting this connection of the muscle in his systematic work, Traite d'Anatomic descriptive. Deuxi^me Edition. Paris, 1843.