101 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF THE FOREARM. The extensor carpi radialis longior, C, arises from the lower third of the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus, and, below the elbow, from the intermuscular septum between it and the following extensor. In the lower part of the forearm its tendon passes through the posterior annular ligament with the shorter extensor, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. The muscle is superficial above and below; but it is covered by the supinator longus in the upper part of the forearm. The extensor carpi radialis Irevior, D, takes origin from the outer condyle of the humerus by the common tendon,* and from the capsule of the elbow joint. Beyond the annular ligament the tendon is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the second finger. This extensor is superficial in great part, but two muscles of the thumb, K and L, rest on it below. Along the outer edge lie the long radial extensor of the wrist, and the long supinator. Both radial extensors draw backwards the hand, extending thus the wrist. The longer muscle can assist the supinator in bending the elbow; and the shorter one may help in straightening the elbow after the joint has been bent. Extensor digitorum communis, E. Attached above by the common origin, it ends below in four tendons : these cross the back of the hand, and are inserted into the middle and ungual phalanges of the fingers. On the hand the little finger tendon is often united in part with that of the ring finger. Near the knuckles all are joined by lateral bands ; but those of the ring-finger tendon being stronger than the rest, prevent extension of that digit whilst the fingers on the sides (little and middle) are bent. On each finger the tendon forms a common expansion over the first phalanx with the tendons of the lumbricales and interos8ei.| * This common tendon is fixed to the lower part of the condyle, and sends downwards aponeurotic septa on the under and lateral surfaces of three other muscles, viz., the extensor digitorum communis, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris. t On the back of the fore and ring-fingers the special extensors of those digits blend with the common expansion.