95 SPECIAL MUSCLES OF THE HAND. AMudor minimi digiii, J., arises behind from the pisiform bone; and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx on the inside, sending an offset to join the extensor tendon * It draws the little from the ring finger, and assists in bending the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. Adductor minimi digiti, vel opponens, L, arises posteriorly from the annular ligament, and the hook of the unciform bone ; and it is inserted into the inner side of the fifth metacarpal bone. The fibres shortening as they contract, draw forwards the me- tacarpal bone, and deepen the hollow of the palm. Flexor hrevis minimi digiti, K, takes origin from the annular ligament and the unciform process, superficial to the preceding muscle; it is inserted with the abductor into the base of the first phalanx. By its position in the hand this muscle is enabled to act as a flexor of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. In the central group of the hand are included superficial and deep muscles: the former, or the lumbricales, are attached to the deep flexor tendons; and the latter, the interossei, lie between the metacarpal bones. The lumljrical muscles, four* in number, and marked by the letter 0, arise from the tendons of the flexor digitorum profundus, near the wrist. Placed on the radial side of the flexor tendons, each joins, opposite the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, the extensor tendon on the back of the first phalanx. The two external muscles arise each from a single tendon, and the two internal from two tendons for each. They flex the metacarpo-phalangeal joints by bringing forwards the first phalanges, and assist the special flexors in closing the fingers. The interossei muscles occupy the inter-metacarpal spaces—two being present in each space except the first, in which there is only one: they are divided into two sets, palmar and dorsal. The dorsal set, four in number, are shown in Plate xi. Each * Lehre von den Muskeln, &c. Voii Friedrich Willielm Tlieile. Leipzig, 1841, p. 283.