40 Hints for the Table. A turbot, if kept two or three days, will eat much finer than a very fresh one; it being only necessary to sprinkle the fish with salt, and hang it by the tail in a cool place. Before putting it into the kettle, make an incision in the hack, rub it well with salt, and then with a cut lemon. If a turbot be boiled too fast, it will be woolly. Careme directs a boiled turbot to be garnished with a large boiled lobster, and this lobster to be garnished with smelts, fastened with silver skewers. A small turbot broiled is excellent. A roasted turbot was the boast of a party of connoisseurs, who dined at Friceur’s, in 1836; but a gentleman had the curiosity to ask M. Friceur in what manner lie set about dressing the fish :—“ Why, Sure, you no tell Monsieur le Docteur Somerville (one of the epicurean guests); we no roast him at all, we put him in oven and bake him.” This anecdote is related in a recent number of the Quarterly Review. Nasturtium flowers make a brilliant garnish for a turbot; as do also lobster-spawn and cut lemon. By the way, Quin, unlike the herd of epicures, preferred the flesh of the dark side of the turbot. Cold turbot, or soles, may be dressed as salad: or the fillets may be warmed in white sauce for a side dish. Or, the fish may be made into a delicious omelet. COD. The larger Cod are generally the firmest and best flavoured fish, the smaller ones being soft and watery—though they may be improved by sprinkling them with salt a few days before they are cooked. Cod is a winter fish, coming in at October, and going out in February; its highest season is about Christmas. Still, as some cod cast their spawn months earlier than others, a few may be met with in tolerable order throughout the year. A fine fish, in the London season, has been sold for 30s. The Cod on the south-east side of the Bank of Newfoundland are as fine again in flavour as that on the north-west side. Cod is obtained, perhaps, finer in London than in any other city in the world; it is caught on the Dogger Bank, and brought alive in wells, by boats to Gravesend, and forwarded to London still alive, where it is immediately crimped, the best fish being with a small head and thick at the neck: but what will the “ humanity” folks say to the crimping, which M. Soyer considers greatly to improve cod as well as salmon. In choosing a Cod, see that it rises high, and is round and thick about the poll, with a deep pit just behind the head; the body full towards the tail; the sides as if ribbed; the fisli