33 Frogs and Snails. EDIBLE FEOGS. The hind legs of frogs are fricasseed, and their lore legs and livers are put into soups on the Continent. The edible frog is considerably larger than the common frog, and though rare in England, is common in Italy, France, and Germany. Frogs are brought from the country to Vienna, 3000 or 4000 at a time, and sold to the great dealers, who have conservatories for them. Frogs fried, with crisped parsley, such as is given with fried eels, are a dish for the gods. There is a notion prevalent that they are very dear; but, in the carte of the Rocker de Cancale, at Paris, grenouilles frites are marked at the moderate price of a franc and a half per •plat. SNAILS.—A SNAIL DINNEE. Snails abound in Italy and Spain more than in the other parts of Europe. In Italy, snails anciently were, and still are, much used for the table. They are regularly sold in the markets, as well as in those of Switzerland, Spain, and France, and are exported in barrels to the Antilles. In the vineyards of France, the peasants collect them, and feed them till winter, when the snails seal themselves up; and in this state they are purchased by the confectioners, who prepare them in the shell with butter and herbs, and forward them to Paris. In Transylvania, the large wood snail is a favourite dish. It is drawn out of the shell, cut small, mixed with a kind of savoury stuffing, and served up and replaced in the shell. In some parts ot the country, instead of eggs and fowls, the peasants pay their tribute in snails and game. Mr. Paget states one lady’s ordinary winter supply to be upwards of 5000 snails. Here is an amusing anecdote of an experimental snail dinner. The chemical philosophers, Dr. Black and Dr. Hutton, were particular friends, though there was something extremely opposite in their external appearance and manner. Dr. Black spoke with the English pronuncia- tion, and with punctilious accuracy of expression, both in point of matter and manner. The geologist, Dr. Hutton, was the very reverse of this: his conversation was conducted in broad phrases, expressed with a broad Scotch accent, which often heightened the humour of what he said. It chanced that the two doctors had held some discourse together upon the folly of abstaining from feeding on the testaceous creatures of the land, while those of the sea were considered as delicacies. Wherefore not eat snails ? they are known to bo nutritious and wholesome, and even sanative in some cases. The epicures of old praised them among the richest delicacies, and the Italians still esteem them. In short, it was determined that a gastronomic experiment should be made at the expense of the snails The snails were procured, dieted for a time, and then stewed ior the benefit of the two philosophers, who had cither invited no quests to their banquet, or found none who relished in prospect the piice de D