Trout. 47 jaundice; and it is probable that the golden colour of the fish, when in high season, induced the ignorant to suppose that it was given by Providence, as a signature to point out its medicinal quality.* TEOXJT. Trout come into season in April; but they can scarcely be said to be in perfection until May and June; from which time they continue in season till September. They vary much in flavour : the silvery fish, with yellowish pink flesh, is delicious ; the dusky trout, with white flesh, is almost tasteless; and the black trout is a worthless, insipid fish. The trout, when in good condition, is short and thick, with a small head, and a broad tail; the sides and head marked with red and purple spots, with the belly of a silvery whiteness. The Driffield river (the Hull), in the East Hiding of Yorkshire, produces the largest trout in England; although the Thames occasionally yields very fine ones. The Fordwich trout, of Izaak Walton, is the salmon trout; and its character for affording “ rare good meat,” besides the circum- stance of its being really' an excellent fish, second only to the salmon, is greatly enhanced, nc doubt, by the opportunity of eating it very fresh. Fordwich is two miles north-east of Can- terbury ; and specimens of the salmon-trout may be seen exposed for sale in the fishmongers’ shops at Eamsgate during the season. The salmon-trout is also occasionally taken in the Medway, by fishermen who work long nets for smelts, during the autumn and winter. Vast quantities of this fish are brought to the London market, chiefly from Scotland, and when in high season, are but little inferior in flavour to the true salmon. Thames trout are occasionally taken weighing 161b., and from 8 to 121b. is a common weight. There is no fish in Britain which can equal them in flavour and in goodness. The Hampshire trout are very celebrated; but those from the Colne and the Carshalton river are preferred by many persons. Small trout in Scotland and Cumberland are made very palatable by dredging oatmeal over them, and frying them in fresh butter. The red trout from the lake near Andermath, on the St. Gothard road, are the very finest in Europe. The trout from the lake of Como are also much recommended. The hamlet of Simplon is also celebrated for its delicious trout; and at the post- house there, the pates de chamois are excellent. * Tliis doctrine of signatures subsisted for a considerable time among medical practitioners, and gave rise to the names of many plants, from the resemblance of their loaves and roots to the form of many parts of the human body; such as lung-wort, liver-wort, spleen-wort, &c.—Hunter.