The Art oj Dining. 21 tion of meat, and it is easy to conclude that the brown sauce must be stronger. State without the machinery of state, is of all states the worst. Mr. Walker relates that he once received a severe frown from a lady, at the head of her table, next to whom he was sitting, because he offered to take some fish from her, to which she had helped him, instead of waiting till it could be handed to him by her one servant. The old English habit of talcing wine together affords one ot the most pleasing modes of recognition when distant, and one of the prettiest occasions for coquetry when near. There is a well- known lady-killer, who esteems his mode of taking wine to be, of all his manifold attractions, the chief; and, to do him justice, the tact with which he chooses his time, the air with which he gives the invitation, the empressement he contrives to throw into it, the studied carelessness with which he keeps his eye on the fair one’s every movement till she is prepared, and the seem- ing timidity of his bow, when he is all the while looking full into her eyes—all these little graces are inimitable.— Quarterly Review. The difficulty of getting a glass of wine in the regular way, has often exercised the ingenuity of mankind. Mr. Theodore Hook was once observed, during dinner at Hatfield House, nod- ding like a Chinese mandarin in a tea-shop. On being asked the reason, he replied, “ Why, Lady Salisbury, when no one else asks me to take champagne, i take sherry with the epergne, and bow to the flowers.” The expense of a dinner at a restaurant in Paris, is pretty nearly the same as at an English coffee-house, and greater than at an English club. At the respectable houses, a gentleman may dine for six or seven francs, or augment the expenses to the prices of the Albion or the Clarendon; but, a large party may be furnished at the best restaurant in Paris, the Rocker de Cancale, for two Napoleons, or 35s. a head, with such a dinner as would be charged in London at five guineas a head.— Metropolitan. When the allied monarchs arrived in Paris, in 1814, they were compelled to contract with a restaurateur, (Very) for the supply of their table, at the moderate sum of 3000 francs a day, ex- clusive of wine. The following maxims for giving a dinner are translated from Physiologie de Gout:— How is a meal to bo regulated in order to unite all things requisite to the highest pleasures of the table ? I proceed to answer this question.