121 Sherries. in 1858, was about 30/.; before the failure it was less than one moiety of that sum. The same occurred with all the wines of the country. The common wines were formerly drunk by the peasant at about one halfpenny the pint; the same quantity now averages about twopence. The failure in the crop of oranges and lemons was likewise most disastrous in its consequences. Competent judges are agreed that about the finest port wine ever known was found at Wotton, in 1824, in some cellars that had been bricked up not later, and perhaps much earlier, than the time of George Grenville, the minister, who died in 1770. The Compte de Cosse, maitre-d’hotel to Louis XVIII., possessed some port which was more than a hundred years old; but it had lost its colour, and its flavour was by no means fine.— The Art of Dining. The White Wines of Portugal have lost the only chance they ever had of a start in the race of competition with sherry. The excellence of the wines of Lisbon, Bucellas, and Carcavellos is not to be disputed, when due justice is done them, and they are obtained from first-rate houses. In the 15th and 16th centuries, when port was unknown in the rest of Europe, and very little known in Portugal, her white wines were prized to the extent of an exportation which, for that period, was enormous. Many of the most distinguished gourmets in England far prefer dry Lisbon to all other wines, and will drink nothing else; and ac- complished judges prefer it to Madeira, which it resembles in quality with less luscious richness, according it a vast superiority over the ordinary class of sherries. SHEBBIES. Sherry of a due age, and in good condition, is a fine, perfect, and wholesome wine; free from excess of acid, and possessing a dry aromatic flavour and fragrancy; but, as procured in the ordinary market, it is of fluctuating and anomalous quality, often destitute of all aroma, and tasting of little else than alcohol and water.—Brande. It has often been said, that sherry is a compound wine; but this is a mistake. The best pale and light golden sherries are made from the pure Xeres grape, with only the addition of two bottles of brandy to a butt, which is no more than l-215th part. Neither are the deep golden and brown sherries, of the best quality, compound wines, though they may be called mixed wines; for they are coloured by boiling the wine of Xeres. Pale sherries are, however, the purest; though, all the gradations of colour upon which so much stress is laid, have nothing to do with the quality of the wine, but depend entirely upon the greater or smaller quantity of boiled wine used for colouring it.—