149 Making Tea. quantity of a breakfast cup and a half of boiling water flow upon it, and pour the infusion out in two minutes. By this means, you have all the flavour, without too much of the bitter principle, of the tea. Put a lump of sugar into the tea-pot, and the tea will infuse in half the usual time. Half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda put into the pot, will hasten the infusion; and should the water be hard, it will increase the strength of the tea by half. The beneficial results of the introduction of tea and coffee have been strangely overlooked or underrated. It has been described as leading “to the most wonderful change that ever took place in the diet of modern civilized nations—a change highly important both in a moral and physical point of view. These beverages have the admirable advantage of affording stimulus without producing intoxication, or any of its evil consequences. Lovers of tea and coffee are, in fact, rarely drinkers; and hence the use of these beverages has benefited both manners and morals. Raynal observes, that the use of tea has contributed more to the sobriety of the Chinese than the severest laws, the most eloquent discourses, or the best treatises on morality.” Cocoa, as a nutritive, stands very much higher than either coffee or tea, in consequence of the large quantities of fat, starch, and gluten contained in it; but, owing to the quantity of fatty matter, it is apt to disagree with some delicate stomachs. Choco- late is a much less reliable article; the finest being made up with mutton suet and common sugar, together with ordinary cocoa. Other adulterations are flour, potato-starch, Venetian red, and other colouring matter. Breakfast.—Luncheon.—Supper. In persons with weak stomachs no meal requires to be more studied than breakfast. If the stomach is overloaded at the commencement of the day, or if anything unwholesome is taken, digestion is deranged, and the stomach will not be right again for hours.—Mayo. The carte of a well-appointed breakfast is as follows: On a table, where everything should be neat and simple, there should be as many different kinds of rolls, as the person who prepares them is able to make. These should differ from each other as much in form as in taste; and on the side table there should be some cold dishes, such as fowls, pheasants, partridges, tongue, ham, cold pates, &c. Few persons are displeased at seeing a