38 Units for the Table. Alpine trout, the rotheli of Swiss Germany, and the sckwarz ■renta of Saltzburg. The Christchurch salmon is decidedly the best in England; lor the Thames salmon may now be considered extinct, not more than four having been caught in as many years, though a good many have been sold as such. Split salmon is fashionable; and it is the best mode in which the fish can be dressed to ensure its being boiled throughout. On the Tweed, and in other salmon districts, a salmon is never boiled whole. Culvered or crimped salmon is the only kind introduced at the table of the true gourmet. If it be left too long in the water, it loses all its taste and colour. Sir Humphry Davy has described the mode of crimping salmon in its native district. The fish is first stunned by a blow on the head, then cut crosswise just below the gills, and crimped by cutting to the bone on each side, so as almost to divide him into slices : he is next put into a cold spring for ten minutes, and then put slice by slice into a pot of salt and water boiling furiously; time being allowed for the water to recover its heat after the throwing in of each slice : the head is left out, and the thickest pieces are thrown in first. Sir Humphry explains the effect of crimping and cold in preserving the curd of the fish, by con- cluding that the fat of the salmon between the flakes of the muscles being mixed with much albumen and gelatine, is ex- tremely liable to decompose, but is kept cool by the spring; and, by the boiling salt and water (which is of a higher temperature than that of common boiling water) the albumen is coagulated, and the curdiness is preserved. And the crimping, by prevent- ing the irritability of the fibre from being gradually exhausted, seems to preserve it so hard, that it breaks under the teeth, while a fresh fish, not crimped, is generally tough. This may improve small fish, hut will cause a large, fine fed fish to eat too dry and brittle. To choose crimped salmon, see that it rises at the edges of the cuts, and that the muscle is well contracted between them, which should develope the flakes, and appear firm and elastic. At Killarney, on the lake bank, the freshly-caught salmon is cut into slices, and broiled over a fire of arbutus-wood, in the ashes of which are placed potatoes, not only for roasting, but that they may receive the fat and juices of the broiling fish. It is said that one of the wonders which the Frazers of Lovat, who were lords of the manor, used to show their guests, was a voluntarily cooked salmon, at the Falls of Ivilmorac. For this purpose a kettle was placed upon the flat rock on the south side of the fall, close by the edge of the water, and kept full and