156 Hints for the Table. and Chinese sugar-candy does not yield to our highest refined sugar. ihe natives of the East Indies are excellent cooks : their stews and haricots are capital, but a prejudice exists against these pre- parations amidst the greater number of Anglo-Indians, who fancy that “ black fellows ” cannot do anything beyond their own pillaus, and are always in dread of some abomination in the mixture; a vain and foolish alarm, where the servants are cleanly, and currie is not objected to. The natives of Scinde, in India, believe that fish diet pro- strates the understanding, and, in palliation of ignorance in any one, they often plead that “ he is but a fish-eater.” An Indian breakfast is an unrivalled repast: fish of every kind—fresh, dried, pickled, or preserved; delicate fricassees, risoles, croquettes, omelettes, and curries, of all descriptions; cold meats and game of all sorts; p&tes, jellies, and jams, from London and Lucknow; fruits and sweetmeats; with cakes in endless variety, splendidly set out in china, cut glass, and silver, the guests providing their own teacups, plates, Ac. The King and Queen of the Sandwich Islands, and their suite, who visited this country in the jrear 1825, were wantonly charged with gluttony and drunkenness by persons who ought to have known better. “It is true,” observes Lord Byron, in his Voyage to the Sandwich Islands, “ that, unaccustomed to our habits, they little regarded regular hours for meals, and that they liked to eat frequently, though not to excess. Their greatest luxury was oysters, of which they were particularly iond; and one day, some of the chiefs having been out to walk, and seeing a grey mullet, instantly seized it and carried it home, to the great delight of the whole party; who, on recognising the native fish of their own seas, could scarcely believe that it had not swum hither on purpose for them, or be persuaded to wait fill it was cooked before they ate it.” The best proof of their moderation is, however, that the charge at Osborne’s Hotel, in the Adelphi, during their residence there, amounted to no greater an average than seventeen shillings a head per day for their table: as they ate little or no butcher’s meat, but lived chiefly on fish, poultry, and fruit, by no means the cheapest articles in London, their gluttony could not have been great. So far from their always preferring the strongest liquors, their favourite beverage was some cider, with which they had been presented by Mr. Canning. The Spanish Olla Podrida consists of carrots, peas, earabansas {a peculiar kind of bean), onions, garlic, lettuces, celery, and long pepper, with slices of beef and ham, all boiled together, and served in one dish. To an uneducated stomach this does not