100 Hints for the Table. The butter of Epping and Cambridge is thought to be only conceitedly in the highest repute; though its superiority is thus explained. The cows which produce the former feed during the summer in shrubby pastures ; and the leaves of the trees and numerous wild plants which there abound are supposed to im- prove the butter. The Cambridgeshire butter is produced from cows that feed one part of the year on chalky uplands, and the other on rich meadows or fens; which alternation is thought to explain its excellence. The London dealers having washed and repacked Irish butter, often sell it as Devon and Cambridge butter. Dutch butter and cheese have associations of extreme cleanli- ness ; for, so scrupulous are the makers, that bare hands are never allowed to come in contact with the materials. Malt Liquors. Theee is a general prejudice against beer in the case of the bilious and the sedentary; but it appears without foundation. Bilious people are such as have weak stomachs and impaired di- gestion, and those who are sedentary are nearly in these respects always in a similar state. Now, beer does not tend to weaken sucb stomachs, to become acescent (sour), or otherwise to dis- agree with them : on the contrary, it will be found, in tbe majority of cases, that beer agrees with them much better than wine, since it is far less disposed to acescence, better fitted to act as a sto- machic, and, therefore, to invigorate both the digestive organs and the constitution at large. Of course, sound home-brewed beer of a moderate strength is here referred to: no man can answer for the effects of the stuff usuall}’ sold as beer, and strong ale is always difficult of digestion. Lord Bacon attributes anti-consumptive virtues to ale; with- out crediting them, Dr. Hodgkin asserts, from well proved expe- rience, that the invalid who has been reduced almost to extremity by severe or lingering illness, finds in well-apportioned draughts of sound beer one of the most important helps to his recovery of health, strength, and spirits. In beer, the nutritive matters derived from the grain vary from four to eight per cent., so that beer is food as well as drink. A little beef eaten with it makes up the deficiency in gluten as compared with milk, so that beef, beer, and bread, our character- istic English diet, are most philosophically put together to sus- tain and to stimulate the bodily powers. Strong ales have about the same strength and influence as hock, and the light French wines; but they contain, in addition, and as distinguishing them from the wines, the nutritive matters of