Hints for the Table. 124 is made from the good remaining in the malt, after enough wort has been extracted for making the wine. British wines are not so weak as they are commonly thought to be. Raisin and other wines made in this country are often much stronger than the highest average of port, in consequence of the saccharine matter, or of added sugar, which is suffered to ferment into alcohol. Besides, British wines commonly contain a large quantity of unfermented sugar, or they have become pricked in consequence of the production of a little vinegar, and hence are extremely apt to disorder the stomach. A very superior raisin wine, with the Frontignac flavour, was made by Mr. A. Aikin; the recipe for which will be found in the Transactions of the Society of Arts for 1829; or, in The Family Manual. Champagne made from gooseberries has often been mistaken by reputed good judges for champagne from grapes. Exempli yratid: Lord Haddington, a first-rate judge of wines, had a bottle of mock and a bottle of real champagne set before him, and being requested to distinguish them, he mistook the product of the gooseberry for the genuine article. Superior wine is made from the pure juice of grapes, with from lib. to 21b. of sugar, and loz. of crude tartar to each gallon. A superior elder wine may be made, by using, instead of raw sugar, 41b. of loaf-sugar to each gallon of mixed juice and water. Parsnep wine has been made to approach nearer to the Malm- sey of the Madeira and the Canaries than any other wine. WINE, AND DECANTING. On a question of “ good living,” Wine may, perhaps, be ex- pected to hold the place of honour. But, whilst conceding this, we are minded to note a distinction. It has, we think, been too much the custom to treat of Wine specially, if not exclusively, as to “ conviviality”—the word being generally used in a sophisti- cated and somewhat uncandid sense. We wish to be more philo- sophical and indeed more just; to view Wine as a delightful social friend; as also a very interesting natural product. Its beneficent influences in daily life (not overlooking considerations medical) claim our gratitude. It is beautiful to tbe eye, agree- able to the palate, of exquisite fragrance, cheering to the spirits, invigorating to the mental and physical powers. But when further we consider it in reference to its capability of preserva- tion—say, the expressed juice of the grape without any factitious addition, brought by a process of fermentation skilfully adminis-