179 Table Anecdotes. absolutely necessary fox' liinx to despatch a special messeiiger im- mediately : then seizing a pen, he wrote this billet to his cook: Sauvez les entremets—les entrees sont per dues.” Mr. Wellesley Pole used to say, that it was impossible to live like a gentleman iix England under 40,000/. a year; and Mr. Brummell told a lady how much she ought to allow her son for dress—that it might be done for 800/. a year, with strict economy. M. Senioi', in an excellent Essay on Political Economy, in the Encyclopcedia Metropolitana, states, that a carriage for a woman of fashion must be regarded as one ot the necessaries of life; and we presume he would be equally imperative in demand- ing a cabriolet for a man.— Quarterly Review. When Dr. Johnson was asked why he was not invited out to dine as Garrick was, he answered, as if it was a triumph to him, “ Because great lords and ladies don’t like to have their mouths stopped!” But who does like to have his mouth stopped ? Did he, more than others ? People like to be amused in general; but they did not give him the less credit for wisdom, and a capacity to instruct them by his writings. In like manner it has been said that the king only sought one interview with Dr. Johnson; whereas, if he had been a buffoon or a sycophant, he would have asked for more. No; there was nothing to complain of. It was a compliment paid by rank to letters, and once was enough. The king was more afi'aid of this interview than Dr. Johnson was, and went to it as a schoolboy to his task. But he did not want to have this trial repeated every day; nor was it necessary. The vei-y jealousy of his self-love marked his respect; and if he had thought less of Dr. Johnson, he would have been moi'e willing to l'isk the encounter. They had each their place to fill, and would best preserve their self-respect, and perhaps their respect for each other, by remaining in their proper sphere. So they made an •outcry about the Prince leaving Sheridan to die in absolute want. He had left him long before. Was he to send every day to know if he was dying ? These things cannot be helped, without ex- acting too much of human nature.—Nortlicote's Conversations. A nice point is thus settled in Bosioell's Life of Dr. Johnson. —Roswell. “ I consider distinction of rank to be of so mixch importance in civilized society, that if I were asked on the same day to dine with the first duke in Englaud, and with the first man in Britain for genius, I should hesitate which to prefer.”— Johnson. “ To be sui-e, sir, if you were to dine only once, and it were never to be known where you dined, you would choose rather to dine with the first man for genius; but, to gaiix respect, you should dine with the first duke in England. For nine people in ten that you meet with would have a higher opinion of you for