Salmon. 37 reservoirs for every sort of fresh-water fish: and the char, gray- ling, and trout are preserved in different waters—covered, and under lock and key, Sir Humphry Davy describes a fish-dinner at Lintz, on the Danube, of a different kind from any in England. “ There were the four kinds of perch, the spiegel carpfen and the silvois glacis, all good fish, which we have not in England, where they might be easily naturalized, and would form an admirable addi- tion to the table in inland counties. Since England has become Protestant, the cultivation of fresh-water fish has been much neglected. Fish is of little account in an East Indian dinner, and can only maintain its post as a side dish; for in the hot season, fish caught early in the morning would be much deteriorated before dinner. In Norway fish are prepared for distant markets by putting them into an oven of a moderate heat, and gradually but thoroughly drying them. Fried fish is best drained by wrapping it in soft whited-brown paper, after which it will not soil the napkin upon which it is served. Fish is often spoiled by the mode in which it is served. It is mostty covered up, when it is made sodden by the fall of the condensed steam from the cover. The practice of putting boiled and fried fish on the same dish is bad, as it is deprived of its crispness from contact with the boiled; and garnishing hot fish with cold parsley is abominable. Dried salt-fish should be soaked in water, then taken out for a time, and soaked again before it is dressed. This plan is much better than constant soaking; the fibres of the fish being loosened by alternate expansion and contraction, which occasions the fish to come off in flakes. Fish sauce should always be thick enough to adhere to the fish. It had better be too thick than too thin, for it can be thinned at table by adding some of the cruet sauces. Dutch sauce is excellent for all kinds of fish; as it does not, like most other sauces, destroy the flavour of the fish. SALMON. The cupidity of fishermen, the rivalry of epicures, and the fastidiousness of the palate of salmon eaters, have fancifully multiplied the species of the salmon. One of the most cele- brated varietes in the annals of epicurism is Vombre chevalier, of the Lake of Geneva, identical with the char of England, the*