20 Hints for the Tabic. To order dinner well is a matter of invention and combination. It involves novelty, simplicity, and taste; whereas, in the generality of dinners, there is no character but that of dull routine, according to the season. The same things are seen everywhere at the same season, and, as the rules for providing limit the range very much, there are a great many good things which never make their appearance at all, and a great many others which, being served in a fixed order, are seldom half enjoyed. To form an agreeable dinner-party, every guest should be asked for some reason, upon which good fellowship mainly de- pends; for, people brought together unconnectedly, had better be kept separate. If the master of a feast wishes his party to succeed, he must know how to command, and not let his guests run riot, each according to his own fancy. In entertaining those who are in a different class from our- selves, it is expedient to provide for them what they are least used to, and that which we are most in the way of procuring of superior quality. Many people, from their connexion with foreign countries, and with different parts of their own, are enabled to command with ease to themselves, what are interesting rarities to others; and one sure way to entertain with effect, is, to culti- vate a good understanding with those with whom we deal for the supply of the table.— Wallcer. To ensure a well-dressed dinner, provide enough, but beware of the common practice of having too much. The table had much better appear bare than crowded with dishes not wanted, or such as will become cold before they are partaken of. The smaller the dinner, the better will be the chance of its being well cooked. Plain dinners are often spoiled by the addition of delicacies; for so much time is consumed in dressing the latter, that the more simple cooking is neglected. The elements of a good dinner are fewer than is generally sup- posed. Mr. Walker observes that, “common soup, made at home, fish of little cost, any joints, the cheapest vegetables, some happy and unexpensive introduction (as a finely-dressed crab, or a pudding), provided everything is good in quality, and the dishes are well dressed, and served hot and in succession, with their adjuncts—will ensure a quantity of enjoyment which no one need he afraid to offer.” All strong dishes should be eaten last, for any mild dish after them will taste flat and insipid. As a rule, take the light-coloured sauce first; for high colour is always obtained by intense reduc-