Hints for the Table. 136 Regent’s punch is made as follows: three bottles of Cham- pagne, one bottle of hock, one bottle of Curaijoa, a quart of brandy, a pint of rum, two bottles of Madeira, two bottles of Seltzer- water, four pounds of bloom raisins, Seville oranges, lemons, white sugar-candy, and, instead of water, green tea; the whole to be highly iced. Benson Hill, however, gives the following method: put three citrons and three Seville oranges, cut the rind into slices, and strain the juice into a stewpan; add two sticks of cinnamon, broken, six cloves, and a dessert-spoonful of Vanilla powder, to be simmered in clarified sugar for four hours. Then add thejuice of 18 fresh lemons, and, instead of with water, complete the sherbet by a strong infusion of the finest green tea; add equal portions of old Jamaica rum and Cognac brandy, according to the strength required, and all being well mixed, should be passed through a sieve. Oxford Punch, by a Christchurch man: Rub the rinds of three- fresh lemons with loaf-sugar, so as to extract the oil; peel finely two lemons more, and two Seville oranges. Use the juice of ten lemons, and four Seville oranges. Add six glasses of ealfsfoot jelly; put it in a large jug, and stir the whole. Pour in two quarts of boiling water, and set the jug upon the hob for twenty minutes. Strain the liquor into a large bowl; pour in a bottle of capillaire, half a pint of sherry, a pint of Cognac brand}-, a pint of old Jamaica rum, and a quart of orange shrub; stir it well as you pour in the spirit. If not sweet enough, add sugar to your taste. Cold punch, when well made, is always weaker than grog or toddy; and the acid with which it is impregnated, has not only a bracing effect upon the stomach, but operates as a diuretic— thereby counteracting considerably the activity of the spirit. The ill effects of drinking punch may be prevented by adding to it a piece or two of preserved ginger, and a little of the syrup. Toddy, the term for a mixture of spirits and water, appears to be taken from the Indian word tari or tadi, pronounced toddy by Europeans,—the sap or wine of a palm.— Craufurd. Wine and water was named Negus, from one Francis Negus, Esq., in the days of George I.; when a toping party of Whigs and Tories falling into a high dispute, and Mr. Negus being present, he recommended them in future to dilute their wine, as he did: this suggestion changed the argument to one on wine and water, which concluded with the drink being nicknamed Negus.