5G Hints for the Table. Choose a crab, dead or alive, by the redness of the shell, and by its weight. The shell of a lobster should be hard and firm; when boiled, the spring of the tail should be strong and elastic. Hot Crab.—Pick the Crab, cut the solid part into small pieces, and mix the inside with a little rich gravy or cream, and season- ing ; then add some curry paste, and fine bread-crumbs; put all into the shell of the crab, and finish in a Dutch oven, or with a salamander. The land-crabs of the West Indies far excel those of our coasts in delicious flavour. Prawns and Shrimps should be elastic, the flesh moist, and the skin well filled out. The ancients esteemed the fish of the razor-shell, when cooked, as delicious food; and Dr. Lister thought them nearly as rich and palatable as the lobster. In England and Scotland they are now rarely used for the table; but in Ireland they are much eaten during Lent. Mussels, in England, are chiefly eaten by the humbler classes ; in Lancashire they have been planted in the river Wyre like oysters, where they grow fat and delicious; as likewise in Shrop- shire and Wales. In the neighbourhood of Rochelle, too, they are fattened in salt and fresh-water ponds. In “ the Forme of Cury,” (1390,) is a receipt for dressing “ Muskels in brewet,” and also one for making “ Cawdel of Muskels.” Scallops abound on the coasts of Portland and Purbeck, in Dorsetshire, and near Yarmouth, in Norfolk. They were exten- sively used in the reigns of Henry Till, and Elizabeth, and are still considered a luxury; in some parts, tliej' are pickled and barrelled. Most shell-fish are very indigestible, and from the indisposition caused occasionally by eating them, the idea of their being poi- sonous has arisen. Oysters, when eaten in large quantities, often cause great disturbance : shrimps and mussels have produced death; but whether from their indigestibility, or poisonous quality, is more doubtful than is commonly supposed. There can be little doubt that the mussel, like the oj'ster, and, indeed, like most other edible animals, is comparatively unfit for the food of man, at certain periods. Pennant, however, remarks, that for one who is affected by eating mussels, a hundred remain uninjured. It is stated, that lobsters or other shell-fish will be improved in flavour, and will lose much of their hardness and indiges- tibility, if killed before they are boiled. In Barbadoes the fish of the beef-shell are cooked for the table; they are very firm eating, short and well tasted.