141 American Summer Drinks. matter so produced; and gum is a nutritious article of vege- table diet. The following receipts for these American Summer Drinlcs have been contributed by Major Unett, 18th regiment, to the Illustrated London News:— Mint Julep is brandy-and-water, sweetened with pounded white sugar, in which are stuck leaves of fresh-gathered mint. Pounded or planed Wenham Lake Ice is put into the tumbler, and the drink is imbibed through a straw or glass tube. At the American bars, the brandy-and- water is first put into a large silver or glass goblet, then the ice, planed or broken very small; pounded white sugar is then dashed over them with a tablespoon; the whole is then violently shaken, or tossed from one goblet to another, and served up in a clean goblet; fresh mint is stuck in the ice, a piece of lemon peel hangs over the brim, and a straw is put into the glass. Sherry Cobbler is made as Mint Julep, sans lemon-peel or mint, sherry being substituted for brandy; and when served, nutmeg is grated over the top. Stone Wall, or Fence, is an English Cider Cup, i.e., cider, -wine, brandy, &c., served with ice and a straw. Grin Sling is the same as the above, but with gin as the spirit. Mississippi Punch. One glass of Outard brandy, half ditto of Jamaica nun, a tablespoonful of arrack, a quarter of a lemon, and a tablespoonful of pounded white sugar; fill the tumbler with water and ice, let it be thoroughly mixed, and serve with a straw. The mixture is made “ right away,” in half the time it takes to relate the process. Sherry Cobbler (Canadian receipt). Take a lump of ice; fix it at the edge of a board; rasp it with a tool made like a drawing-knife or car- penter’s plane, set face upwards. Collect the fine raspings—the fine rasp- ings, mind—in a capacious tumbler; pour thereon two glasses of good sherry, and a good spoonful of powdered white sugar, with a few small bits, not shoes, of lemon, about as big as a gooseberry. Stir with a wooden macerator. Drink through a tube of macaroni or vermicelli. To a tumbler two-thuds filled with lemonade, add a wine-glass of brandy, and fill to the brim with green lime-shrub. This is very pretty tipple.—Benson Sill. The Wenham Lake Ice is now extensively used in England, and many cargoes of it are annually exported from Boston to India. This ice has one recommendation, which cannot be too strongly urged,—its extreme purity. On this account, it may be mixed with water or milk for drinking; wines or spirits may he diluted with it; and butter or jelly placed in direct contact with it. Its crystalline brilliancy is likewise very inviting, especially in contrast with the dull, not to say dirty, ice of our country. In the deliciously refreshing American drinks, “ Sherry Cobbler ” and “ Mint Julep,” the ice itself is employed. A small piece of ice let fall into a glass of porter is a luxurious addition, which has only to be more extensively known to be generally adopted. Another advantage of this purity is, that the ice will last considerably longer: for, in a “ Refrigerator,” or ice-chest, a