Hints for the Table. 26 probability be required, that out of thirteen persona, of different ages, one of them, at least, shall die within a year, it will be found that the chances are about one to one that one death, at least, will occur. 1 his calculation, by means of a false interpretation, has given rise to the prejudice, no less ridiculous, that the danger will be avoided by inviting a greater number of guests, which can only have the effect of augmenting the probability of the event so much apprehended.— Quetelet, on the Calculation of Probabilities. This superstition obtains in Italy and Russia, as well as in England. Moore, in his Diary, vol. ii. p. 206, mentions there being thirteen at dinner one day at Madame Catalani’s, when a French countess, who lived with her upstairs, was sent for to remedy the grievance. Again, Lord L. said he had dined once abroad at Count OrlofFs, who did not sit down to dinner, but kept walking from chair to chair, because “ the Naristiken were at table, who, he knew, would rise instantly if they perceived the number thirteen, which Orloff’ would have made by sitting down himself.”—Things not generally Known. Walpole gives an odd account of a Mrs. Holman, whose pas- sion was, keeping an assembly and inviting literally everybody to it. “ She goes to the drawing-room to watch for sneezers, whips out a curtsey, and then sends next morning to know how 3rour cold does, and desire your company on Thursday.” Carving. To be able to carve well is an useful and elegant accomplish- ment. It is an artless recommendation to a man who is looking out for a wife. Bad carving is alike inconsistent with good manners and economy, and evinces in those who neglect it, not only a culpable disrespect to the opinion of the world, but carelessness, inaptitude, and indifference to any object of utility. The Honours of the Table were until within a few years per- formed by the mistress of the house. In the last century, this task must have required no small share of bodily strength, “ for the lady was not only to invite—that is, urge and tease— her company to eat more than human throats could conveniently swallow, but to carve every dish, when chosen, with her own hands. The greater the lady, the more indispensable the duty,— each joint was carried up in its turn, to be operated upon by her, and her alone; since the peers and knights on either hand were so far from being bound to offer their assistance, that the