138 Hints for the Table. shake it well, and in a week the cura^oa will be bright, and equal in flavour to that imported from Malines. Ratafia may fie made by infusing in brandy the fresh blossom of the whitethorn, peach or apricot kernels, or very ripe grapes, and sweetening tfie same. The four-fruit liqueur consists of equal proportions of the .juices of strawberries, raspberries, currants, and cherries—sweet- ened. A wineglass full in a tumbler of spring-water makes a delicious summer beverage. Walnut liqueur is made in Prance, by adding a pint of brandy to a dozen of unripe walnuts, with sugar or syrup to the palate. The French likewise preserve the walnuts. Ratafia, and similar liqueurs, are frequently extremely dele- terious. A melancholy instance of this occurred at Pisa, and is thus related by Mrs. Starke. Two ladies were living together, when one of them complaining of cramp in her stomach, the other gave her a wineglass of ratafia, which happened to be in the house. Shortly after having swallowed it, she died, so evidently in consequence of poison, that strong suspicions fell upon her friend; who, to prove her innocence, took the same quantity of ratafia herself which she had administered to the deceased, and ex- pired within a few hours. Prompted by this circumstance, Pro- fessor Santi, of Pisa, wrote a beautiful little work, to show that x-atafia has, of late years, been made with Italian laurel leaves; the extract from which is a deadly poison. Kirsch, or as it is called in Germany, Kirschenwasser (cherry- water), is manufactured in large quantities in the Black Forest and iu Switzerland; but the best quality is made in the Forest. In France it is made exclusively in Franche Comte, the centre of the trade being at Fougerolles (Haute Saone), where several important houses are established. As soon as the cherries are ripe the trees are beaten by the peasants with large poles, and the fruit as it falls is picked up by children and thrown into tubs. The juice is then pressed out by the hands, or with pieces of wood, after which the stones are taken out from the mass, broken, and the kernels are put into the cherry-juice. After the whole has undergone fermentation for a fortnight, or a month, it is distilled. The bouquet of the Kirsch is owing to the prussic acid in the cherry-kernels. The clearest and most colourless Kirsch is considered the best; like all other spirits, it much improves by age. According to Le Normand, Kirschenwasser is “downright poison.” In Paris, a spurious kirschenwasser is distilled from the kernels of prunes.