Hints for the Table. 62 poke.—HAMS. The Berkshire breed of pigs is one of the best in England. Even the cottagers’ pigs in the Windsor Forest district are of a superior description: bacon is the principal food of the labourers, and they are good judges of its qualities. Pork, however dressed, is always unwholesome; yet, if cooked in the French fashion, the stimulant of a sauce makes it aperient, and, of course, less indigestible than when dressed plainly. Pork, goose, duck, and such oily meats, are more digestible when eaten cold than hot. The delicacy of a roasting-pig can only be ensured by his being nurtured on mother’s milk, exclusively, from his birth to his dying day. The most delicate rabbits are fattened in the same manner. The head of a sucking-pig, split, well seasoned with pepper and salt, and deviled, is most relishing. Apples boiled, and mixed with beans and meai, are said to cause a pig to increase ten pounds a week in weight, and render the flesh of the most delicious flavour. The old method of brawning a young boar was by shutting him up in a small room, in harvest-time, feeding him with nothing but sweet whey, and giving him every morning clean straw to lie upon; and before Christmas he was sufficiently Irawned, and proved fat, wholesome, and sweet. Much of the superiority of York hams is attributed to the fineness and cleanness of the Yorkshire salt. The hams of Bayonne (as they are improperly called,) are cured at Pau, in the Lower Pyrenees; where also is carried on an extensive trade in the smoked legs of geese. Spanish hog-meat and Westphalia hams are said to owe much of their peculiar excellence to the swine being led on beech-mast, which our limited forests cannot to any extent allow. It is said that a peck of acorns a day, with a little bran, will make a hog increase one pound in weight daily, for two months together. Westphalia hams are prepared in November and March. The Germans place them in deep tubs, which they cover with layers of salt and saltpetre, and with a few laurel-leaves. They are left four or five days in this state, and are then covered with strong brine. In three weeks they are taken out, and soaked twelve hours in well water; lastly, are then exposed for three weeks to the smoke produced by burning the juniper-bush. Not only are the smoked hams of the bear much prized, but the paws are great delicacies. The other flesh sometimes re- sembles beef, and is excellent. If a ham be boiled with veal and savoury herbs, their juices will insinuate themselves between the fibres of the ham, after