17 Cooking by Gas. is mainly owing to the contradictory receipts in different cookery- books, and the liberties taken with them. Cooking by Gas is now generally adopted in large establish- ments with success. One of the earliest Gas Kitchens is en- graved in Conrad Cooke’s Cookery and Confectionery, published in 1824 ; it consists of a platform 2ft. 8in. high, the upper part brick, with shelves for saucepans, &c., beneath. It is contrived for stewing, the gas being conveyed in moveable burners, over which are set the stewpans upon trivets. Another mode is as follows : A large round or oval of burners, or jets of flame, is provided, in the midst of which is fixed a perpendicular spit, to hold the meat to be roasted. Over the flame is placed a cover of sheet iron, at bottom surrounding the jets, and contracted towards the top, so as to bring all the heat of the gas as near as possible to the meat. This cover resembles a large inverted funnel, the pipe of which resembles a chimney, to let out the gas; the heat of which boils a tin vessel placed over it. Soyer was one of the earliest persons to improve Gas Cookery. For the Keform Club kitchen he invented gas stoves, each divided into five com- partments, and each having a separate pipe and brass cock, with a main to each stove, thus supplying gas to heat the five compartments at once, the flame being regulated by the cocks. Thus, the same heat is obtained as from charcoal, the moment the gas is lit; it is a fire that never requires making up; creates neither dust nor smell (except the gas be not properly turned off), and is quite free from smoke. Upon Ins octagonal trivet, Soyer could place nine stewpans over the gas, some simmering, others boiling, at the same time. In another of his contrivances, the gas ascends from a gridiron perforated pipe through a layer of pumice-stone, on emerg- ing from which it is lighted, when the flame keeps the pumice-stone red-hot, and the cooking is as convenient as if done by charcoal. In 1850, Soyer cooked at Exeter, for the Agricultural Society’s Dinner, “ a baron with saddle-back of beef a la Magna Charta,” weighing 535 pounds, the joint being the whole length of the bullock—rumps, rounds, loins, ribs, and shoulders, to the neck. It was roasted in the open air, within a temporary inclosure of brickwork; the monster joint frizzling and steaming away over 216 jets of gas from pipes half an inch in diameter, the whole being covered in with sheet-iron; when, in five hours, the beef was dressed for 5s. Gas Cooking Apparatus is too numerous for us to detail. One of its latest extensive adoptions is for cooking the great Guildhall dinner, on Lord Mayor’s Day, in the kitchen in the crypt beneath the hall. PBESEKVATION OP POOD. Charcoal, when recently burned, has much efficiency in pre- venting the offensiveness of animal decay from becoming sensible to the smell. Sprinkled in the state of powder over the parts of dead animals, it preserves them sweet for a length of time. Placed in pieces between the wings of a fowl, it keeps away c