Table Anecdotes. 109 Isleworth, and take with him a card for a dinner invitation to Mr. Ralph and his wife. The servant mistook the word curd for cart, and set out full speed with the latter. The supposed indignity offended the pride of Ralph, who, with great gravitjr sent back the messenger and his carriage with a long expostula- torv letter. Foote was ostentatious and vulgarly fine before his guests. As soon as the cloth was removed from the table, he would ask, “Does anybody drink port?” If the unanimous answer hap- pened to be “ no,” he always called out to the servant in waiting —“ take away the ink.” Fontenelle, who lived till within one month of 100, was rarely known to laugh or to cry, and even boasted of his insensibility. One day, a certain bon vivant Abbe came unexpectedly to dine with him. The Abbe was fond of asparagus dressed with butter; for which also Fontenelle had a gieatffout, but preferred it dressed with oil. Fontenelle said, that for such a friend there was no sacrifice he would not make; and that he should have half the dish of asparagus which he had ordered for himself, and that half, moreover, should be dressed with butter. While they were conversing thus together, the poor Abbe fell down in a fit of apoplexy; upon which his friend Fontenelle instantly scampered down stairs, arid eagerly bawled out to his cook, “ the whole with oil! the whole with oil, as at first.” It is related of Mr. Alderman Faulkner, of convivial memory, that one night, when he expected his guests to sit late and try the strength of his claret and his head, he took the precaution to place in his wine-glass a strawberry, which his doctor, he said, had recommended to him on account of its cooling qualities. On the faith of this specific, he drank even more deeply, and as might be expected, was carried away earlier than usual. When some of his friends condoled with him next day, and attributed his mis- fortune to six bottles of claret which he had drunk, the alderman was extremely indignant—“ the claret,” he said, “ was sound, and never could do anybody any harm—his discomfiture was altogether caused by that confounded single strawberry” which he had kept all night at the bottom of his glass. The first Lord Lyttleton was very absent in company: one day, at dinner, his lordship pointed to a particular dish, and asked to be helped of it, calling it, however, by a name very different from that which the dish contained. A gentleman was about to tell him of his mistake. “ Never mind,” whispered another of the party; “ help him to what he asked for, and he will suppose it is what he wanted.”