Hints for the Tulle. 180 having dined with a duke; and the great genius himself would receive you better because you had been with the great duke.” Lord Chancellor Erskine would sit upon the bench, and having sketched a turtle upon a card, with a certain day and hour, would pass it to a friend in court as a dinner invitation. A city lawyer is related to have carried in his pocket written cards—as follows: —“ Turbot and lobster-sauce, sir, at six; shall be happy in having your companywhich invitation he handed about very liberally to friends’ friends, &c. He lived like a prince in the country: the usual amount of his maltster’s bill was 7001.; and once he malted the produce of twenty acres of barley, of his own growing ; but the bill was not 102. less for that. Have your name clearly announced on going to a pai’ty, and it will be prudent to take care that the servants make no mistake regarding it. The mishap that, as we read, befell a certain Mr. Delaflete, in London, may serve to illustrate the consequence of want of caution in this respect. From the indistinct mode of pronouncing his name, the porter understood it to be Delajlote and so proclaimed it to the groom of the chambers, who, some- how or other, mistook the initial letter of the name, and the luckless visitor, a quiet, shy, reserved young man, was actually ushered into the midst of a crowded drawing-room by the omi- nous appellation of Mr. PF.elaflote. On the other hand, do not be too precise in your instructions, or you may be placed in the predicament of Lady A. and her daughter, who having been much annoyed by the gaucheries of a country booby of a servant, who would persevere in giving in their names as the Eight Honourable Lady A. and the Honourable Miss A., at length took him seriously to task, and desired that in future he would men- tion them as simple Lady A. and plain Miss A. Their astonish- ment may be conceived when they found themselves obeyed to the letter—and Devonshire House was electrified by the intelli- gence that Simple Lady A. and Plain Miss A. were “ coming it up. Ferdinand I. of Naples prided himself upon the variety and excellence of the fruit produced in his royal gardens, one of which was called Paradise. Duke Hercules, of Ferrara, had a garden, celebrated for its fruits, in one of the islands of the Po. The Duke of Milan, Ludovico, carried this kind of luxury so far, that he had a travelling fruit garden, and the trees were brought to his table, or into his chamber, that he might, with his own hands, gather the growing fruit, Charles II. dined with the citizens of London the year that Sir Kobert Viner was mayor, who getting elated with continually toasting the royal family, grew a little fond of his majesty.