175 Table Anecdotes. Sir Walter Scott once happening to hear his daughter Anne say of something that it was vulgar, gave the young lady the following temperate rebuke:—“ My love, you speak like a very young lady ; do you know, after all, the meaning of this word vulgar ? ’Tis only common; nothing that is common, except wickedness, can deserve to be spoken of in a tone of contempt; and when you have lived to my years, you will be disposed to agree with me in thank- ing God that nothing really worth having or caring about in this world is uncommon.” The courtesy and obliging disposition of Julius Caesar (by whom we are termed barbari) were notorious, and illustrated in anecdotes which survived for generations in Rome. Dining on one occasion at a table where the servants had inadvertently, for salad-oil, furnished coarse lamp-oil, Caesar would not allow the rest of the company to point out the mistake to their host, for fear of shocking him too much by exposing the mistake. The anecdote of Cleopatra dissolving one of her pearls in vinegar, and drinking it to Antony’s health at supper, is sus- pected to be an historical fiction. Foremost among the pleasures of the table are, what an elegant novelist has termed “ those felicitous moods in which our animal spirits search, and carry up, as it were, to the sur- face, our intellectual gifts and acquisitions.” Of such moods Sir Thomas Lawrence took peculiar advantage; for it is related that he frequently invited his sitters (for their portraits) to partake of the hospitalities of his table, and took the most favour- able opportunity of “ stealing ” from them their “ good looks,” traits which he felicitously transferred to canvas. Yon Raumer, in his observations upon London society, re- marks, that “ eating and drinking seem to produce no effect upon the English.” “Ido not applaud,” continues he, “ inordinate and boisterous talking after dinner; but, that people should be just as cold, quiet, and composed at the end as at the beginning ; that the wine should produce no apparent effect, is too dry and formal to my liking. Perhaps the old-fashioned tippling was so disgusting that people now shun the slightest approach to joviality; or, perhaps, port and sherry oppress rather than ele- vate, and have little power in transforming gloomy fogs into sky- blue fantasies. In short, I am for the German plan; frank, lively conversation, even though it be a little too long and too loud; light wine, and a light heart; and, at parting, joyous spirits, and onty just mathematics enough to perceive that live is an even number.” Lord Byron knew a dull man who lived on a bon mot of