Hints for the Table. 04 Walnut-oil may be used in salads. Sunflower-seed oil is as sweet as butter, and is much used in Russian cookery. In preparing a salad, it is a common mistake to wash lettuces; they ought never to he wetted; they thus lose their crispness, and are pro tanto destroyed. If you can get nothing but wet lettuces, you had certainly better dry them; but, if you wish for a good salad, cut the lettuce fresh from the garden, take off the outside leaves, cut or rather break it into a salad bowl, and mix it with the sauce the minute before it is eaten. It is surprising that we do not hear more of the effects of swallowing the eggs or larva of insects, with raw salads. Fami- lies who can afford it should keep a small cistern of salt water, or lime and water (to be frequently renewed), into which all vegetables to be used raw should be lirst plunged for a minute, and then washed in pure fresh water. Parmentier’s salad vinegar is made as follows:—Shalots, sweet savoury, chives, and tarragon, of each three ounces; two table- spoonfuls of dried mint-leaves, and the same of balm; beat these together in a mortar, and put them into a stone gallon bottle; fill up with strong white-wine vinegar, cork it securely, and let it stand a fortnight exposed to the sun, when filter it through a flannel bag. Sweet Dishes. Pastry is digested with difficulty, in consequence of the oil which it contains; puddings, from their heaviness, that is, close- ness of texture; in proportion as they are light, they become digestible.—{Mayo.) Pastry is so abundant at Damascus as to cost scarcely anything: Lamartine says he never saw so many varieties elsewhere. The Italians often put sugar into their paste. A green apricot tart is commonly considered the best tart that is made; but a green apricot pudding is better. The difference between a tart and a tourte is, that the first is always covered with paste, whilst the latter is sent to table open, or with a trellis-work of paste over the fruit. A plum-pudding is hardly ever boiled enough; a fault which reminds one of a predicament in which Lord Byron once found himself in Italy. He had made up his mind to have a plum- pudding on his birthday, and busied himself a whole morning in giving minute directions to prevent the chance of a mishap; yet, after all the pains he had taken, and the anxiety he must have undergone, the pudding appeared in a tureen, and of about the consistency of soup.