Whisky and Gin Punch. 135 Making Punch. For making punch, the water should not boil, nor should it have been boiled before, else the punch will not have the creamy head so much relished: the sugar powdered will aid this effect. It should be well mixed, by stirring in each ingredient as it is added. Arrack will much improve punch: its flavour may be imitated by dissolving a scruple of the flower of benjamin (to be obtained of any druggist) in each pint of rum. The juice and thin peel of a Seville orange add variety of flavour, especially to whisky punch; lime-juice is also excellent. The aroma of the lemon is best obtained by rubbing a few lumps of sugar upon the surface of the peel. Several additions maybe made to soften the flavour of punch; as a wine-glass of porter, or of sherry; a tablespoonful of red-currant jelly : a piece of fresh butter; the substitution of capillaire for sugar; or half rum and half shrub. The reason for cutting lemon-peel thin is commonly thought to be to avoid the bitter white of the lemon; but it should be known that the scent and flavour which constitute the use and value of the fruit, reside in minute cells close to the surface of the lemon; and by paring it exceedingly thin you cut through these cells, and thus let out the flavour; whereas, if you pave it thickly into the white, the cells are left entire, and the essential oil remains in the peel. When, however, the peel is cut thinly, much of the oil remains on the white; but this may be abstracted by nibbing a lump of sugar over it. Tamarinds will give punch a flavour closely resembling arrack. A tablespoonful of Guava jelly much improves punch. Good whisky-punch, when well made, is, certainly, of all the tipples ever invented by man, the most insinuating and the most loving; because, more than any other, it disposes the tippler to be pleased with himself. It brightens his hopes, assuages his sorrows, crumbles down his difficulties, softens the hostility of his enemies, and, in fact, induces him for the time being to think generously of all mankind, at the tip-top of which, it naturally and good-naturedly places his own dear self, with a glass in one hand and a mug in the other, without a wish ungratified, and as unsuspicious of evil as if not a single drop of gall, or a sprig of wormwood, existed on the face of the earth.—Basil Hall. Summer gin punch is thus made at the Garrick Club. Pour half a pint of gin on the outer peel of a lemon, then a little lemon- juice, a glass of maraschino, about a pint and a quarter of water, and two bottles of iced soda-water; and the result will be three pints of the punch in question.