Pines.—Melons.—Grapes. 105 than in any other part of the world. They are very large, and no fruit can be more luscious. The melons of India, Cabool, and Persia, bear no comparison with them ; and even the celebrated fruit from Ispahan itself. The water-melons of Bokhara are good, and attain an enormous bulk; twenty persons may partake of one; and two of them, it is said, sometimes form a load for a donkey. A West Indian water-melon, according to Monk Lewis, has been much overrated: he says, “ I never met with a worse article in my life; the pulp is of a faint greenish yellow, stained here and there with spots of moist red, so that it looks exactly as if the servant in slicing it, had cut his finger, and suffered it to bleed over it. Then the seeds being of a dark purple, present the happiest imitation of clotted gore; and, altogether, (prejudiced as I was by its appearance,) when I had put a single bit into my mouth, it had such a kind of Shylocky taste of raw flesh about it (not that I recollect ever having eaten a bit of raw flesh itself), that I sent away my plate, and was perfectly satisfied as to the merit of the fruit.” Grapes should bear a blooming freshness: when the stalks are dry, the fruit is mostly stale. The following are choice varieties: black Damascus, Lisbon, and Frontignac, with round berries; black Muscadine and Hamburgh, with long berries; Frontignac and sweet-water, with round white berries ; Muscats, with long white berries; red Hamburgh and Muscat. Grapes may be freshened by cutting the stalk of each bunch, and placing it in wine, as flowers are placed in water. The bloom of plums, grapes, cucumbers, or other fruit, may be restored by lightly dusting over them calcined magnesia. THE STEAWBEEEY.—EASPBEEEY.—CHEEEIES, ETC. The old Bohemian strawberry, the hautbois, was long a favourite, and men still keep up the cry in London of “ Fine hautbois,” though very few go into the market. The arrival of the old scarlet strawberry from America was an era in strawberry culture. This was succeeded by the Carolina. Our experimen- talists began the task of improvement, and with very great suc- cess. Strawberries are now triple the size they were, are more prolific, better in flavour, and the period of production is prolonged by the observing of early and late sorts. To improve the flavour of strawberries, squeeze each gently with a spoon, and the advantage will be similar to that of boiling the potato. Strawberries can be had in perfection only in dry weather, for a very slight shower will render this fruit compara- tively flavourless. Raspberries should be eaten as soon after they are gathered as