64 Hints for the Table. SAUSAGE-MEATS. Of English sausages, the finest are made at Epping, Norwich, Oxford, and Cambridge. Bologna and Gottingen sausages are fine; indeed, most university towns are celebrated for “ savoury meats.” Oxford sausage-meat is made as follows: Take one pound and a half of pig-meat, cut from the griskins, without any skin; half a pound of veal; and one pound and a half of beef-suet. Mince these meats separately, very finely; then mix them with a dessert spoonful of dried, powdered, and sifted sage; pepper and salt to taste; and the well-beaten yolks and whites of five eggs. The whole should be well beaten together, as much depends upon the mixing. Theodore Hook gives this receipt iu his Adventures of Peter Priggins, the College Scout. Soyer tells us that the best Sausages he ever tasted were a pre- sent to him by Sir George Chetwynd, and were made by a country pork-butcher at Atherstone, a small town near Greendon Hall; they are more plainly made, and also better seasoned than, and not subject to burst, as the Cambridge ones, or at all events those made in London under that name. Oxford produces good sausages, not so choice in appearance, but to some tastes better in flavour: the plainer they are, the better they dress for breakfast. The skin must be transparent, that the meat should be seen through; they keep good two or three days in a cold place in sum- mer, nearly a week in winter, with care. Dr. Kerner of Wurtemburg states that the smoked sausages, which constitute so favourite a repast in his country, often cause fatal poisonings. In one instance thirty-seven persons died out of seventy-six who had eaten them; and though the most able chemists analysed the meat, no trace of any known poison could be discovered. Professor Graham, in his work on Chemistry, states that in Wurtemburg the sausages are prepared from very various mate- rials. Blood, liver, bacon, brains, milk, bread, and meal are mixed together with salt and spices; the mixture is then put into blad- ders or intestines, and after being boiled is smoked. When these sausages are well prepared, they may be preserved for months, and furnish a nourishing savoury food; but when the spices and salt are deficient, and particularly when they are smoked too late or not sufficiently, they undergo a peculiar kind of putrefaction, which begins at the centre of the sausage, and causes death. Savoury Pies. In large dinners, two cold pies of game or poultry are often sent