Hints for the Table. 70 Game in the third course is seldom half enjoyed; as it has, probably, been preceded by some substantial dish, thereby taking away the relish, and overloading the appetite. The far-famed eatable birds’ nests abound in the Philippine Islands, and are nothing more than a kind of seaweed (Sphere- coccus cartilaginous), which the swallow eats, and having softened it in its stomach, throws up as a jelly, and forms into a nest, which is subsequently smeared over with dirt and feathers. In this state the nests are sent to China, cleaned, and sold at very high prices : they are then fine jelly, and being dressed with stimulants, form a first-rate relish at the tables of the Chinese. Some of our own epicures may be glad to hear that the Sphero- coccus crispus, which might serve for the composition of this luxury, is to be found in abundance on the western and northern coasts of Great Britain. The south of France is the great larder of Paris. Thence we have, from Provence, the exquisite pale truffle, and oil pure and colourless as water; pdtes led on by the sublime pule de foix gras; the poulard truffe ofPerigord; the unbrandied claret of Bordeaux; the liqueurs of Marseilles; the nougat* of the same emporium; the oranges of Hyeres; the muscat of Lunel; the ortolans, quails, verdiers, bec-figues, the olives, figs, anchovies, almonds, fruits dried and pi’eserved in jelly, en compote, in brandy and out of it, and other countless delicacies. EGGS. The finest-llavoured hens’ eggs are those with bright orange yolks, such as are laid by the game-breed and by speckled varieties. The large eggs of the Polish and Spanish breed have often pale yolks, and little flavour. In making Christmas plum-puddings, duck eggs are more serviceable, and more economical in their application, than are those of fowls, and being larger in size, heavier, and far richer, they may be regarded as worthy the attention of the housewife. Seagulls’ eggs, when boiled hard, and eaten with pepper, salt, vinegar, and mustard, make a delicious breakfast dish. Many persons have an antipathy to these eggs; but it must have arisen from eating them in a soft state, when they have always a fishy taste. A vast number of the eggs of rooks are commonly sub- stituted for those of the plover, to which they bear a very close and apt resemblance—insomuch, that the difference between them is scarcely capable of being detected by accurate observers. * Tlio nougat is a sort of cake, composed of filberts, pistachio nuts, the kernels of the pine cone, and Narbonnc honey.