JUnU fur the Table. 126 will, also, often occur temporarily from change of season or temperature, and be self-curative. Indeed, all but very old wine will be liable to occasional derangement of “ condition” from natural causes, and it is after these perturbations that the “ deposit” occurs which we have to speak of under our second heading on “ condition,”—namely that Mechanical. Having reference then to wine in bottle, the state of turbidness referable to the re-admixture of a “ deposit” by agitation of the liquid, though consistent with perfect healthiness in the wine, is not “ condition.” Displeasing to sight, wine in this state is impaired in flavour and bouquet, also less salutary. For, albeit there are degrees of this ill “ condition,” some “ deposit” being more per- nicious than other, it is always bad. What in fact is this “ deposit” but something eliminated from the wine during the process of its maturation P As might be supposed, the results of that process—“ deposit”—are, when tasted separately, found to be most unpalatable. Yet, unnatural as is the reunion of the “ deposit” with the wine, this disadvantage is often, we may almost say generally, incurred (more or less) by reason of the difficulty of avoiding it. At rest in its Bin, the wine ‘will be bright; but who shall remove it, extract the cork, and separate perfectly the bright and pure portion from the foul and bitter “ deposit P ” No sooner is the bottle transferred from the posi- tion in which it has lain than disturbance of the “ deposit” is apt to begin; if placed upright for drawing the cork, there is pre- sently a partial subsidence of the rejected impurities; then fol- lows the jolt attendant on extraction of the cork; then the agita- tion inseparable from pouring off,—aud so is lost the “ condition” perchance attained to by many years’ keeping! Some attempts have from time to time been made to palliate, by mechanical aid, this inconvenience; but these contrivances have been so imper- fect as only to increase trouble without effecting their object. We have, however, lately met with an Instrument which effectu- ally meets the difficulties of the case, and deserves thereby to be esteemed an especial boon to that large section of mankind—the admirers of wine. Henceforward it is our own fault if we do not drink our wine (such as we can get) in “ condition.” We refer to a little machine, entitled “ Ellis’s Patent Elutriator,”*—to be used for the elutriation or decanting of wine. (See Frontispiece.) This is, in one, a basket wherein the bottle of wine is steadily deported from its bin; a fixing whereby, still without change of position, the bottle is held firm whilst the cork is removed; and a tilterfor pouring oft' the wine. In aid of the latter part of the operation of decanting, the Elutriator is furnished with an inge- * Made at Farrow’s, Great Tower-street, London.