41 Soles.—Haddock.— Whiting. stiff, red in the gills, and bright in the eyes, else it will not eat firm. Again, press your finger on the body of the fish, when, if it be stale, the impression will remain; if fresh, it will rise again on removal of the pressure. If a cod-fish be hung up for a day, the eyes being taken out, and their place filled with salt, the fish will eat much firmer, and its flavour will be improved. Cod-fish should be crimped in thin slices, when they will be boiled equally; but if crimped in thick slices, the thin or belly part will be overdone before the thick part is half boiled. Again, thin slices need not be put into the kettle, until the guests are arrived. Enclose a silver spoon in the belly of a cod-fish during the boiling: if it be in good condition, the silver will remain un- coloured, when taken from the fish at table. The Dutch eat stewed and baked cod-fish with oiled butter and lemon-juice. The Norwegian Cod-fishery is stated to employ 5000 boats, with 25,000 men; the season commencing with February, and lasting seven or eight weeks. SOLES.—HADDOCK.—WHITING.—LING.—BEEAM. The Sole is principally from the North Sea, but the small-sized caught in shallow water, on our coast, are the best: sometimes 1000 pairs are taken at one haul; some are seven pounds each— the older they are, the larger they become. In a haul, perhaps the first ever taken there, in Ballinskillig’s Bay, close in-shore, and not far from Derrynane, there were taken, in October, 1848, 60 soles, weighing 2 cwt.! Soles, when in good season, are of creamy-white on the lower sides, and thick about the shoulder; the slime on the dark side should be transparent, and that on the lower side frothy. Above all things, avoid soles with a sky-blue tinge. The Haddock is a fine fish, with firm snow-white flesh, and a creamy curd between the flakes; the larger the fish, the firmer it eats; the finest are taken in Dublin Bay, and on the Devon and Cornwall coasts. The large haddocks are in season from June till February; the smaller ones at all times. They should be chosen as cod. In France, whitings are not skinned, but only slit, dipped in flour, fried in very hot dripping, and served without any sauce. The Ling, taken on the Cornish coast, is the best of the whole cod tribe, though we seldom hear of it, except salted. Like the cod, it has a remarkably fine sound; its flesh separates in curdy