165 Table Anecdotes. yesterday, and we are such prudent managers, that we make a point of eating it up while it is good, and nice and fresh, before we begin upon anything else.” It was suggested to a distinguished gourmet, what a capital thing a dish all fins (turbot’s fins) might be made. “ Capital,” said he, “ dine on it with me to-morrow.” “Accepted.” “ Would you believe it ? when the cover was removed, the sacrilegious dog of an amphitryon had put into the dish, ‘ Cicero, Do finibus.’ ‘ There is a work all fins,’ said he.”—Bulwer. A cunning Welsh squire, a zealous diner-out, had the following not unfair bait for those who swallowed it:—“ I have a little book at home,” he would say slyly, in a corner, to such of his friends as had venison, or game, or any other good things to be eaten, “ and in that little book is your name.” He died, however, without making a will, at the age of eighty-six.—Nimrod. The late Duke of Bridgewater, when in London, would not undertake the trouble of keeping house: he therefore made an allowance of 2000Z. a year to a friend, with whom he dined when not otherwise engaged, and to whose table he had the privilege of inviting his intimate friends. One of the best practical jokes in Theodore Hook’s clever Gil- bert Gurney, is Daly’s hoax upon the lady who had never been at Richmond before, or, at least, knew none of the peculiarities of the place. He desired the waiter, after dinner, to bring some “maids of honour,” those cheesecakes for which the place has, time out of mind, been celebrated. The lady stared, then laughed, and asked, “ What do you mean by ‘ maids of honour ?’ ” “ Dear me!” said Daly, “ don’t you know that this is so courtly a place and so completely under the influence of state etiquette, that everything in Richmond is called after the functionaries of the palace ? What are called cheesecakes elsewhere, are here called maids of honour; a capon is called a lord chamberlain ; a goose is a lord steward; a roast pig is a master of the horse; a pair of ducks, grooms of the bedchamber; a gooseberry tart, a gentleman usher ot the black rod ; and so on.” The unsophisticated lad}' was taken in, and when she actually saw the maids of honour make their appearance in the shape of cheesecakes, she con- vulsed the whole party by turning to the waiter, and desiring him in a sweet but decided tone to bring her a gentleman-usher o( the black rod, if they bad one in the house quite cold. One of Lord Byron’s odd fancies was dining at all sorts of odd out-of-the-way places. Somebody popped upon him in a coffee-house in the Strand, where the attraction was, that he paid a shilling to dine with his hat on. This he called his