Smoking. 143 the southern Russian provinces. Manufacture, on the other hand, exercises a great influence over the quality of tobacco. In Algiers, where the climate is most favourable, the cigars are not smokable, because they are badly prepared. Again, some En- glish-made cigars are of much greater excellence than many of the cigars imported from Havanuah, and paying the highest duty as manufactured tobacco; and there is no doubt whatever that it is quite practicable to make cigars in this country which shall be undistinguishable in appearance, and not very distin- guishable in flavour, from any except those first-class Havannah cigars which scarcely ever come into consumption.” Dr. Pan-, after dinner, but not often till the ladies were about to retire, claimed in all companies his privilege of smoking, as a right not to be disputed; since, he said, it was a condition, “ no pipe, no Parr,” previously known, and peremptorily imposed on all who desired his acquaintance. The hookah is reckoned an essential part of a gentleman’s establishment in the East Indies; and every one who aims at haut ton must be possessed of a hookah, and hoolcah-burdar, or servant, whose sole duty is to atteud it. This machine is rather complicated, and consists of a chauffoir, a tobacco-holder, a water-vase, and a pipe. The latter varies in length, from three to twenty feet, and is generally made of fine leather, wrought so as to be air-tight and flexible. The vase is usually filled with plain water; but those who wish to smoke luxuriously, put into it rose-water, which gives the smoke a peculiarly delicate flavour. The meerschaum pipe and amber mouthpiece are well known. Meerschaum is a mineral production, found at no great distance from the surface, principally near Broussa, and under the shadows of Olympus. Though yielded by a land of smokers, not a pound of it is sold in the native market. It is all packed and sent direct to Trieste, and thence to Vienna, to be fashioned into those many shapes of elegance and ugliness well known to all classes of tobacco consumers in Britain. Meerschaum pipes, however, are often imported into Smyrna from the German factories. The true material, of course, is imitated by the mechanical forger, but, by adepts, the fraud is at once detected, as real “ meer- schaum” absorbs the essential oil, which “composition” does not. To a perfect meerschaum pipe an amber mouthpiece is essential—a mouthpiece of amber from the Baltic Sea. In the East it is still considered to be a sort of alchymised gum, or transmuted white of eggs. Of this substance, too, the thievish Greek has many imitations to sell—the best being of Bohemian