3 Artificial Digestion by Pepsin. making cheese : it is a syrupy solution, which being mixed with starch'and dried, forms a greyish powder, and is either used by itself, or mixed with re-agents which do not affect its digestive properties. Thus prepared, pepsin can be taken either in water, or between slices of bread; and according to Dr. Ballard, who has introduced it into London practice, it is capable of represent- ing and replacing the normal gastric juice of the human body; and it not only acts per se on the food, but restores the lost activity of the secretive organs.* DIGESTION OF VARIOUS FOOD. The time required, to digest various kinds of food has been duly observed. St. Martin, the man who has an opening into his stomach, produced by a gun-shot wound, is in New York, and a number of physicians of that city, experimenting with a view to ascertain the time requisite for the digestion of food, have found that a thermometer introduced into his stomach, rises to 101° Fahrenheit. The carrot is consumed in five hours. Eoast beef, underdone, will digest in an hour and a half. Melted butter will not digest at all, but float about in the stomach. Lobster is comparatively easy of digestion. Upon the application of the gastric juice to a piece of purple tissue paper, the colour at once fades. The patient, Martin’s, health has been uniformly excellent; and since his recovery from the first effects of the wound, he has supported a large family by his daily labour. WHAT AN EPICURE EATS AND DRINKS IN HIS LIFE-TIHE. It mil rather take the reader by surprise to be told, that in a life of 65 years’ duration, with a moderate daily allowance of mutton, for instance, he will have consumed a flock of 350 sheep; and that altogether, for dinner alone, adding to his mutton a reasonable allowance of potatoes and vegetables, with a pint of wine daily for 30 years of this period, above 30 tons of solids and liquids must have passed through his stomach. Soyer, in his popular work, the Modern Housewife, says:— Take seventy years of the life of an epicure, beyond which age many * Among the cases recorded by Dr. Ballard is that of a lady, sixty-six years of age, who for four years had suffered pain, which “ she had no words to describe,” for three or four hours after every meal. The natural consequences were excessive prostration and complete disgust for food; and she had for many weeks limited herself to four rusks and a little milk and beef-tea per diem. The first day pepsin was used she ate and enjoyed a mutton-chop; in a few days she ate freely, and gradually improved, and at length was able to give up the pepsin entirely, to eat without pain, and walk some miles without fatigue.—Dr. Ballard, on Artificial Digestion, p. 30. B 2