60 Hints for the Table. Welsh beef (observes Dr. Hunter,) is ready at a moment’s warning, to go upon actual service. It is a little army of itself, when flanked by mustard and vinegar. STEAKS AND CHOPS. How many considerations are requisite to produce a good Rump-steak! as the age, the country, and the pasture of the beef; the peculiar cut of the rump, at least, the fifth from the commencement; the nature of the fire; the construction and elevation of the gridiron; the choice of shalot, perchance; the masterly precision of the oyster-sauce, in which the liquid is duly flavoured with the fish. It were better if pepper and salt were interdicted from your broiling steak ; and tongs only should be used in turning it. If left too long on the fire, the error of all bad cooks, the meat will be hard and juiceless. If sauce be used, it should be made hot before it is added to the gravy of the steak. People who want to enjoy a steak should eat it with shalots and tarragon. So says Mr. Cobbett; adding, that an orthodox clergyman told him that he and six others once ate some beef- steaks with shalots and tarragon, and that they voted unani- mously that beef-steaks were never so eaten before. But this is not orthodox cookery. What strange fancies have some epicures. Asafcetida will be remembered by its garlic-like smell; and Dr. Reece was accus- tomed to enjoy a steak with tincture of asafcetida poured over it for sauce! A mutton chop with shalot, is a nice tavern relish: but its perfection has disappeared with the famous Offley, of Henrietta- street, Covent Garden, who lived before the days of gas-cookery. To enjoy this relish at home, mince the shalot, and warm it in a little good gravy, which pour over the chop when broiled. Soyer’s New Mutton Chop.—Trim a middling-sized saddle of mutton, which cut into chops half an inch in thickness with a saw, without at all making use of a knife (the sawing them off jagging the meat and causing them to cat more tender), then trim them, season well with salt and pepper, place them upon a gridiron over a sharp fire, turning them three or four times; they would require ten minutes’ cooking; when done, dress them upon a hot dish, spread a small piece of butter over each (if approved of), and serve: by adding half a tablespoonful of Soyer’s Gentlemen’s or Ladies’ Sauce to each chop when serving, and tinning it over two or three times, produces an excellent entrSe; the bone keeping the gravy in whilst cook- ing, it is a very great advantage to have chops cut after the above method. At home, when I have a saddle of mutton, I usually cut t wo or three such chops, which I broil, rub maitre d'liotel, butter over, and serve with fried potatoes roimd, using the remainder of the saddle the next day for a joint. The above are also very excellent, well-seasoned and dipped into egg and bread-crumbs previous to broiling. Lamb chops may be cut precisely the same, but require a few minutes’ less broiling. You must remark that by 1'lus plan the fat and lean are better divided, and you can enjoy both;