87 Early Green Eeas. equally palatable as, and much more nutritious than, the white. Sorrel gives flavour to turnip-tops, but is dangerous. The long French spindle-shaped turnip is of great excellence, and is much used in Germany, generally stewed.* In dressing turnips, never omit to mix with them a small lump of sugar, to overcome their bitter taste. Parsneps, from Teltow, a village in the neighbourhood of Berlin, are a peculiar delicacy of the Prussian cuisine. PEAS. The French have a proverb : “Eat green peas with the rich, and cherries with the poormeaning, we suppose, that peas re- quire to be nicely stewed with butter, flour, herbs, <fcc. Mr. Cobbett notes : “ The late King George III. reigned so long, that his birthday formed a sort of season with gardeners ; and ever since I became a man, I can recollect that it was always deemed a sign of bad gardening if there were not green peas in the garden fit to gather on the 4th of June.” A note in the fifth edition of Pennant’s London, states that when the editor (in 1812) visited Goldsmiths’ Hall, the more opulent members of the Company had experienced a severe dis- appointment in not being able to procure (on account of the back- wardness of the season) the customary supply of 52 quarts of green peas at their annual feast on the 29th of May. Five guineas per quart were offered; but, unable to obtain the full supply, they, either to prevent competition, or the disputes which might arise, wisely abstained from producing any of this enviable luxury. We suspect there is some error in this story. David Hume shrewdly observes : “ The same care and toil that raise a dish of green peas at Christmas, would give bread to a whole family during six months.” This is a calculation somewhat in the manner of Joseph Hume. SPINACH, ETC. Spinach is one of the wholesomest vegetables served at table, especially when simply dressed. It should be very carefully * Until the beginning of tbe eighteenth century, the turnip was only cultivated in England in gardens, or other small spots, for culinary pur- poses ; but Lore! Townshend, attending King George I., as Secretary of State, to Germany, observed the turnips cultivated in fields, as fodder for cattle, and spreading fertility over lands naturally barren; on his return to England, he brought over with him some of the seed, and gave it to a few of his own tenants, who occupied soil similar to that at Hanover. It was sown, and the experiment succeeded: the cultivation of field turnips soon spread over the whole county of Norfolk; and gradually it has made its way into every other district of England.