163 Clubs of London. Wales (afterwards George IV.); and Captain Morris was the laureat, the sun of this jovial system: in 1831 he bade adieu to the Society, but in 1835 revisited it, and was presented with an elegant silver bowl; at the age of 90, he sang:— “ When my spirits are low for relief and delight, I still place your splendid memorial in sight; And call to my muse, when care strives to pursue, ‘Bring the steaks to mymem’ry, and the bowl to my view.’ ” There was also a Beef-steak Club, which is mentioned by Ned Ward in 1770. Peg Woffington was a member; and the Presi- dent wore as an emblem a gold gridiron. And at the sale of Mr. Harley’s curiosities, in November, 1858, a silver gridiron, worn by a member, was sold for 1Z. 3s. Crockford, who established the Club which bore his name, in the house now the “ Wellington,” in St. James’s-street, was a remarkable man. According to the Edinburgh Review,— Crockford started in life as a fishmonger, in the old bulk-shop next door to Temple Bar Without, which he quitted for “ play” in St. James’s. He began by taking Watier’s old club-house, where ho set up a hazard- bank, and won a great deal of money: he then separated from his part- ner, who had a bad year, and faded. Crockford now removed to St. James’s-street, had a good year, and built the magnificent club-house which bore his name; the decorations alone arc said to have cost him 94,0(XB. The election of the club members was vested in a committee; the house appointments were superb, and Ude was engaged as mattre d?hotel. “ Crockford’s” now became the high fashion. Card-tables were regularly placed, and whist was played occasionally; but the aim, end, and final cause of the whole was the hazard-bank, at which the proprietor took his nightly stand, prepared for all comers. His speculation was eminently successful. During several years, everything that anybody had to lose and cared to risk was swallowed up; and Crockford became a millionaire. He retired in 1840, “much as an Indian chief retires from a hunting country when there is not game enough left for his tribe;” and the Club then tottered to its fall. After Crockford’s death the lease of the club-house (thirty-two years, rent 1400/.) was sold for 2900L James Smith has left us the following sketch of his every-day life at the Union Club:— At three o’clock I walk to the Union Club, read the journals, hear Lord John Ilusscll deified or diablcrizcd, do the same with Sir Bobert. Peel or the Duke of Wellington, and then join a knot of conversationists by the tiro till six o’clock, consisting of lawyers, merchants, and gentlemen at large. We then and there discuss the Three per Cent. Consols (some of us preferring Dutch Two-and-a-half per Cents.), and speculate upon the probable rise, shape, and cost of the New Exchange. If Lady Harrington happen to drive past our window in her landau, we compare her equipage to the Algerine Ambassador’s; and when polities happen to be discussed, rally Whigs, ltadicals, and Conservatives alternately, but never seriously,' such subjects having a tendency to create acrimony. At six the room M 2