Hints for the Table. 146 is taken for breakfast. Napoleon the First’s method was to put the ground coffee into a dry pot, with a little isinglass, and hold it over the fire, shaking it to prevent burning; and when smoke rises from it, take off the pot, and gently pour in boiling water, which will at once bring out all the fine properties of the coffee without carrying off the aroma; a cup is then poured out, and returned to the pot, and in two or three minutes the coffee will be clear for use. A French physician recommends coffee made cold by infusion, to stand a day, and then be filtered; and two table-spoonsful of this coflec to be poured into a breakfast cup of hot milk. Or, the coffee, Turkey or Bourbon, should be roasted only till it is of a cinnamon colour: it should be coarsely ground soon after it is roasted, but not until quite cool. The propoi-tions for making coffee are usually one pint of boiling water to two ounces and a half of coffee. The coffee being put into the water, the coffee-pot should be covered up, and left for two hours sur- rounded with hot cinders, so as to keep up the temperature, without making the liquor boil. Occasionally stir it, and after two hours’ infusion, remove it from the fire, allow it a quarter of an hour to settle, and when perfectly clear, decant it. Isinglass, or hartshorn shavings, are sometimes used to clarify coffee; but by this addition you lose a great portion of its delicious aroma.— From, Le Manuel de VAmateur de Cafe. Soyer gives the two following receipts:— Choose the coffee of a very nice brown colour, hut not black (which would denote that it was burnt, and impart a bitter flavour); grind it at home if possible, as you may then depend upon the quality; if ground in •any quantity, keep it in a jar hermetically sealed. To make a pint, put two ounces into a stewpan, or small iron or tin saucepan, which set dry upon a moderate fire, stirring the coffee round with a wooden spoon con- tinually until it is quite hot through, but not in the least burnt: should the fire be very fierce, warm it by degrees, taking it off every now and then until hot (which would not be more than two minutes), when pour over a pint of boiling water, cover close, and let it stand by the side of the fire (but not to boil) for five minutes, when strain it through a cloth or apiece of thick gauze, rinse out the stewpan, pom- the coffee (which will be quite clear) back into it, place it upon the fire, and, when nearly boiling, serve with hot milk if for breakfast, but with a drop of cold milk or cream if for dinner. French Fashion. To a pint of coffee, made as before directed, add a pint of boiling milk, warm both together until nearly boiling, and serve. The French never use it any other way for breakfast. Benson Hill gives the following method: beat up an egg— ' two for a large pot—and mix it well with the coffee till it is formed into a ball: put it into the pot, and fill up with cold water; simmer it for an hour, but do not stir it; and just before