67 Turkey.—Bustard. The brown Norfolk turkey may be fattened to resemble the American, by cramming it with walnuts soaked in water, four days before killing. This is for roasting only; it makes the flesh darker, and gives it the flavour of game. Turkeys are kept wild at Holkham Hall, Norfolk, by the Earl of Leicester, to whom they afford the same sport as any other bird in cover. —H. W. Brand. Some poultry, like game, is much improved by keeping. A Christmas turkey, if hung from a fortnight to three weeks, will acquire much of the flavour of game; and fowls may be similarly improved. A boiled turkey, capon, leg of lamb, or knuckle of veal, will be much enriched by putting into the saucepan with either a little chopped suet, two or three slices of peeled lemon, and a piece of bread. A turkey will be much improved by roasting it covered with bacon and paper. Chesnuts roasted and grated, or sliced, and green truffles stewed and sliced, are excellent addenda to forcemeat for turkeys, or some game. Chesnuts stewed in gravy are likewise served under turkey. Turkeys and pheasants, ready stuffed with truffles, are regu- larly imported from Paris by Morel, of Piccadilly. Two Italian cardinals laid a bet of a dinde aux truffes (a turkey with truffles), the payment of which the loser postponed till the very eve of the Carnival, when the winner reminded him of the debt. He excused himself by saying that truffles were nothing that year. “ Bah, bah!” said the other, “ that is a false report originating with the turkeys.” THE BTTSTABD. Bustards, some twenty years since, were bred in the open parts of Suffolk and Norfolk, and were domesticated at Norwich. Their flesh was delicious, and it was thought that good feeding and domestication might stimulate them to lay more eggs; but this was not the case. There were formerly great flocks of bus- tards in England, upon the wastes and in woods, where they were hunted with greyhounds, and were easily taken. The bus- tard is, however, now extremely rare in this country. Three female birds were shot in Cornwall, in 1843; on Romney Marsh, in 1850; and in Devonshire, in 1851. In January, 1856, a very which latter, it is to be regretted, are extinct. In the reigns of George I. and II., Kiehmond Park could boast of a flock of two thousand wild turkeys; but being situated near London, there were constant fights between the keepers and poachers, which occasioned the destruction of the birds.—Jesse's Country Life.