To Dress a Ham. G3 having dislodged the salt, hy which means the meat is enriched and made tender. At first sight, this will appear an extravagant mode of boiling a ham; bnt it should he recollected, that the broth will serve the charitable purposes of the family, and cannot be considered as lost. In Germany, a pint of oak sawdust is put into the boiler with each ham. To preserve the rich flavour of a ham, it should be braized; the braize will afterwards serve as a rich brown sauce, or flavouring. York House, Bath, has long been noted for the fine flavour of the hams dressed there, as follows. After being cleaned, the ham is soaked in warm water long enough to remove the outside skin; it is then trimmed, and placed in a stewpan of sweet-wort, and slowly cooked, when the ham will he of superior flavour to that given in France by dressing it in champagne. About fifty years ago, some American exquisites boiled bam in Madeira wine. This was an expensive luxury which met with little encourage- ment. It took its rise from an incident which occurred hi Prussia. Frede- rick the Great once condescended to partake of a festival prepared for him by one of his courtiers, and among many dishes of exquisite flavour, he was particularly struck by that of a ham. He partook of it copiously, accompanying each mouthful with great praise, not only of the meat, but of the cook who had prepared it. A short time afterwards, his majesty directed a ham to be cooked that should have the same flavour as the one he had so much enjoyed. On being told how it had been boiled, he ex- pressed astonishment at the novel method; yet, not to lose himself the pleasure he had promised himself, ordered the cook to apply to the courtier for the requisite quantity of ■nine. The king being an absolute monarch, the liquor and lives of his subjects were at his disposal; said being of a despotic temper, no one thought of disobedience; the wine was furnished, but to cheek future like requisitions, the practice of boiling ham in wine was discontinued, and it is believed lias not been renewed. A fresh ox tongue, stuck with cloves, roasted, and sent to table with port-wine sauce, and currant jelly, is a pleasant variety to the routine of ordinary dishes. Bacon should be a mass of fat, with the least possible quantity oflean; the lean, when salted, being hard, indigestible, and un- nutritious; while the pure fat, when of a pink, pearly hue, is as delicate as any food. Bacon may be kept for many months hy the following means:— when the flitches have hung to dry, not later than the last week in April, separate the hams and gammons from the middles, put each into a strong brown paper bag, and tie or sew up the mouth: do not uncover them till they are wanted for use, and then only the particular one that is wanted. Eubbing bacon or hams with fresh elder-leaves will keep off the hoppers. In larding veal, poultry, or game, for savoury pies, the bacon should be put in symmetrically, so as to appear, when cut, like a draft-board.