Hints for the Table. 184 A true fine gentleman is what one seldom sees : in him appear all the great and solid perfections of life, with a beautiful gloss and varnish: everything that he says or does is accompanied with a manner, or rather a charm that draws the admiration and goodwill of every beholder.—Steele. Good manners is the art of making those people easy with whom we converse: whoever makes the fewest persons uneasy is the best bred man in company.—Swift. The polite of every countiy seem to have but one character. A gentleman of Sweden differs but little, except in trifles, from one of any other country. It is among the vulgar that we are to find those distinctions which characterize a people.— Gold- smith. Let a man’s pride be to be a gentleman: furnish him with elegant and refined pleasures, imbue him with the love of intel- lectual pursuits, and you have a better security for his turning out a good citizen, and a good Christian, than if you have con- fined him by the strictest moral and religious discipline, kept him in innocent and unsuspecting ignorance of all the vices of youth, and in the mechanical and orderly routine of the severest system of education.— Quarterly Review. Whoever is open, loyal, and true; whoever is of humane and affable demeanour; whoever is honourable in himself, and in his judgment of others, and requires no law but his word to make him fulfil an engagement—such a man is a gentleman.—T>e Yere. Full dress, after all, is the test of the gentlewoman. Common people are frightened at an unusual toilette; they think that finer clothes deserve finer manners, forgetting that any manner to be good, must be that of every day.—Miss Landon. “ I know,” says Balzac, “ no such sure test of a gentleman as this, that he never corrects a solecism in conversation, or seems to know that a solecism has been committed. There is the Marquis de (we forget his title), confessedly the best bred man in France, and one of the most learned and eloquent, to whom a Provencal may talk two hours without losing the impression that he delights the Marquis by the purity of his diction; whereas, there is hardly a little abbe, or avocat, or illiterate ■parvenu, to whom one can speak without being corrected at every third sentence.” THE END. Savill & Edwards, Printers, 4, Chandos-street, Covent-garden.