61 Veal.—Mutton. whilst the other is a lump of meat near the bone and fat at the other end, which partly melts in cooking, and is often burnt by the flame it makes; the new ono not being divided at the bone, keeps the gravy in admirably. If well sawed, it should not weigh more than the ordinary one, being about half the thickness.—The Modern Housewife. VEAL. Yeal is perhaps more used in the French Kitchen than any other meat. In England, there is no better show of veal than at Cambridge, on market-day. tide considers a sirloin of veal far preferable to a fillet, than which nothing is drier. That part of veal is always best for fricandeaux, which is inter- mixed with fat. MUTTON. Prime mutton is at least five years old, has a very brown outer skin, very small nerves, and small grain, and yields brown gravy. In Earl Cowper’s establishment, mutton is never killed till it is six years old; and this meat is very superior both in quality and flavour. Mutton killed in Leadenhall market, and preserved in a cask of sugar, has been eaten in India, after a six months’ voyage, as fresh as the day it was placed on the shambles. The Dartmoor sheep, which produces the esteemed Oakhamp- ton mutton, is a small breed, weighing about 141b. per quarter. Mutton to imitate venison should be five or six years old, else the light colour will discover the deception. The saddle of mutton is the most uneconomical joint from the butcher’s shop; considering the little meat to be cut from it, and the great waste in skin, fat, and bone. The amateur of tender meat will find the under fillets most excellent. A leg of mutton should never be spitted, as the spit will let out the gravy, and leave un unsightly perforation just as you are cutting into the pope’s eye. A fillet of mutton, salted for three days, boned, and then stuffed, half roasted, and stewed in gravy, is an economical luxury. A stewed shoulder of mutton is excellent. And a roast neck of mutton is a fit dinner for a prince: so thought George 1Y. A boiled shoulder of mutton and a boiled duck are excellent dishes for a bachelor’s dinner. A broiled blade-bone of mutton is a relishing supper dish. The father of the late Duke of Devonshire had one got ready for him every night at Brookes’s Club-house. Lamb is more exquisitely dressed in the Turkish Kitchen than in that of any other country.