Whitebait. 45 lampreys in this sauce before serving. Garnish with slices of lemon and sippets of toasted bread. WHITEBAIT.—SHAD. We quote the following particulars of this delicacy from the Curiosities of London To the large taverns at Blackwall and Greenwich gourmets flock to eat Whitebait, a delicious little fish caught in the Reach of the Thames, and directly netted out of the river into the frying-pan. They appear about the end of March or early in April, and are taken every flood-tide until September. Pennant describes Whitebait as esteemed by the lower order of epicures. If this account be correct, there must have been a strange change in the grade of epicures frequenting Greenwich and Blackwall since Pennant’s days; for at present the fashion of eating Whitebait is sanctioned by the highest authorities, from the court of St. James’s in the West to the Lord Mayor and his court in the East; besides the philosophers of the Koyal Society; and her Majesty’s Cabinet Ministers, who wind up the Parlia- mentary session with their “ annual fish dinner,” whither they go in an Ordnance barge, or a Government steamer. Wliitebait are taken by a net in a wooden frame, the hose having a very small mesh. The boat is moored in the tideway, and the net fixed to its side, when the tail of the hose, swimming loose, is from time to time handed into the boat, the end untied, and its contents shaken out. Whitebait were thought to be the young of the shad, and were named from then’ being used as bait in fishing for whitings. By aid of comparative anatomy, Mr. Yarrell, however, proved Whitebait to be a distinct species, Clupea alba. Perhaps the famed delicacy of Wliitebait rests as much upon its skilful cookery as upon the freshness of the fish. Dr. Pereira has published the mode of cooking in one of Lovegrove’s “ bait-kitcliens” at Blackwall. The fish should be dressed within an hour after being caught, or they are apt to cling together. They are kept in water, from which they are taken by a skimmer as required; they arc then thrown upon a layer of flour, con- tained in a large napkin, in which they are shaken until completely en- veloped in flour; they are then put into a colander, and all the superfluous flour is removed by sifting; the fish are next thrown into hot lard con- tained in a copper cauldron or stew-pan placed over a charcoal fire; in about two minutes they are removed by a tin skimmer, thrown into a colander to drain, and served up instantly, by placing them on a fish- drainer in a dish. The rapidity of the cooking process is of the utmost importance; and if it be not attended to, the fish mil lose their crispness, and be worthless. At table, lemon juice is squeezed over them, and they are seasoned with Cayenne pepper; brown bread and butter is sub- stituted for plain bread; and they arc eaten with iced champagne, or punch. The Thames and the Hamble, (which runs into the South- ampton Water,) are the only rivers in England in which white- bait has been taken. Scottish epicures may now enjoy whitebait, in common with those of Blackwall and Greenwich; for it is obtained in abundance