59 Sirloin of Beef. was the slaughter, that only the haunches were saved, and the rest given to the dogs.* Mutton gravy is preferable to that made with beef, for venison: it should be seasoned only with salt. A lamp-dish and water-plates are almost indispensable for the full enjoyment of venison. In Ceylon, the natives cover down newly-killed venison with honey, in large earthen pots; these are not opened for three years, and the meat so preserved is said to be of exquisite flavour. BEEF. The Sirloin of Beef is commonly said to have been named from a loin of beef knighted by Charles II.; and at Friday Hill, in Essex, they show a table upon which the ceremony was per- formed ; but the story is much older: for Fuller, in his Eccle- siastical History, relates of King Henry VIII. at the Abbey of Reading, “ A sirloin of beef was set before him, so knighted, saith tradition, by this King Henry.” A sirloin of beef should not weigh more than 201b. or 241b.: a larger piece cannot be well roasted; the time it requires causing the outside to be too much done, while the middle remains raw. That part of a rump of beef which eats best boiled, is also best when roasted. When the fat slice is taken off, remember that the narrow side is infinitely the best meat. Salt Round of Beef is a magnificent specimen of this class; yet how often do we see it standing in a dish to get cold, the dish filled with the gravy that runs from it. To prevent this loss, M. Soyer hit upon the following expedient:—Fill two large tubs with cold water, into which throw a few pounds of rough ice, and when the round is done, throw it, cloth and all, into one of the tubs of ice-water; let remain one minute, when take out and put it into the other tub; fill the first tub again with water, and continue the above process for about twenty minutes; then set it upon a dish, leaving the cloth on until the next day, or until quite cold; when opened, the fat will be as white as possible, besides having saved the whole of the gravy. If no ice, spring water will answer the same purpose, but will require to be more fre- quently changed: the same mode would be equally successful with the aitch-bone. When a warm round of beef is sent to the larder, do not forget to turn the cut side downwards, so as to let all the gravy run to that part which you intend to eat cold. * In 1837, Earl Spencer presented, for the use of tho Royal Parks, 783 head of deer, comprising selections from tho most approved breeds; which have been distributed at Windsor, Hampton Court, Bushy, Richmond, and Greenwich.