Hints for the Table. 68 fine male bustard was taken near Hungerford, in Berkshire, on the borders of Wiltshire, this being the only male taken for many years in England : it weighed 13§ lbs., and its wings measured from tip to tip 6 feet 3 inches; it is preserved in the museum of the Zoological Society. A writer in the Penny Cyclopaedia (voce Bustard) says: “We are old enough to re- member one and sometimes two bustards as the crowning orna- ments of the magnificent Christmas larder at the Bush inn, Bristol, in the reign of John Weeks, of hospitable memory ; and we have heard, too, a romantic story of the last of the Salisbury Plain bustards, (a female,) coming into a farmer’s barton, as if giving herself up. In 1819, a large male bird, taken on New- market Heath, was sold in Leadenhall market for five guineas.” We remember to have seen the bustard in the Guildhall dinner bill of fare on Lord Mayor’s Day, but do not recollect the year of its disappearance. Mr. Gould considers that from the progress made in the science of agriculture and various other causes, the bustard may be regarded as extinct in this island.* In the Art of Dining (1852), Fisher, of Duke-street, is stated to have sent a fine bustard to Windsor, price 7\ guineas. There are some fine bustards in India, where they are pursued on horseback, and shot by pistols. A young hen makes a very fine dish at table: the flesh of the breast is full of triangular cavities. THE BITTERN.—HERON.—GULL. The flesh of the bittern was formerly in high esteem, nor is it despised in the present day: when well fed, its flavour somewhat resembles that of the hare, nor is it rank and fishy like some of its congeners. The long claw of the hind-toe is much prized as a toothpick, and formerly, it was thought to have the property of preserving the teeth .f The young of the black-headed gull proves to be excellent eating. Its eggs resemble crows’ more than plovers’ eggs: but vast quantities of them are sold for plovers’ eggs. This hint may help to prevent the amateurs of plovers’ eggs from being gulled.— Quarterly Review. * A bustard was shot in the Bustard-country (Norfolk), in 1831. Mr. Jesse knew a Norfolk gentleman, a great sportsman, who assured him that he once had a pack of bustards rise before his gun; he suddenly came upon them in a gravel-pit. Mr. Southey and Sir ltichard Colt Hoare both mention the curious fact, that the bustard has been known to attack men on horseback at night. + Southey relates, “A bittern was shot and eaten at Keswick byayoring Cantab a few years ago; for which shooting I vituperate him in spirit whenever I think of it.”