Uinta for the Table. 174 service of porcelain made after a particular pattern, sent to China a specimen dish, ordering that it should be exactly copied for the whole service. It unfortunately happened that in the dish so sent, the Chinese manufacturers discovered a crack; consequently, the entire service sent to the party ordering it, had a crack in each article, carefully copied from the specimen crack; thus illus- trating the imitative skill of the Chinese. “ Allow me, gentlemen,” said Curran, one evening to a large party, “ to give you a sentiment. When a boy, I was one morning playing at marbles in the village of Ball-alley, with a light heart, and lighter pocket. The gibe and the jest went gladly round, when suddenly, among us appeared a stranger, of a remarkable and very cheerful aspect; his intrusion was not the least restraint upon our merry little assemblage. He was a benevolent creature, and, the days of infancy (after all, the happiest we shall ever see) perhaps rose upon his memory. Heaven bless him ! I see his fine form, at the distance of half a century, just as he stood before me in the little Ball-alley, in the day of my childhood. His name was Boyse; he was the rector of Newmarket. To me he took a particular fancy. I was winning, and full of waggery; thinking everything that was eccentric, and by no means a miser of my eccentricities ; everyone was welcome to a share of them, and I had plenty to spare, after having frightened the company. Some sweetmeats easily bribed me home with him. I learned from Boyse my alphabet and my grammar, and the rudiments of the classics. He taught me all he could, and then he sent me to a school at Middleton. In short, he made me a man. I recollect it was about thirty-five years afterwards, when I had risen to some eminence at the bar, and when I had a seat in parliament, on my return one day from the Court, I found an old gentleman seated alone in my drawing-room, his feet familiarly placed on each side of the Italian marble chimney-piece, and his whole air bespeaking the consciousness of one quite at home. He turned round—it was my friend of Ball-alley. I rushed instinc- tively into his arms, and burst into tears. Words cannot de- scribe the scene which followed. “ You are right, sir, you are right. The chimney-piece is yours—the pictures are yours —the house is yours. You gave me all I have—my friend—my benefactor!” He dined with me: and in the evening I caught the tear glistening in his fine blue eye, when he saw poor little Jack, the creature of his bounty, rising in the House of Com- mons to reply to a right honourable. Poor Boyse! he is now "one; and no suitor had a longer deposit of practical benevolence in the Court above. This is his wine—let us drink to his memory !”—Curran's Life, by his Son.