Hints for the Table. 152 National Dinners, Etc. The Romans made little use of cattle as food; and the fatten- ing of cattle for this specific purpose was unknown to them. Neither can we find evidence that beef and mutton were eaten by the Roman people generally. Pliny mentions the use of beef, roasted, or in the shape of broth, as a medicine, but not as food. Plautus speaks of beef and mutton as sold in the markets: but, amidst the immense variety of fish, fiesh, and fowl, we hear little of the above meats in the Roman larder. Fish and game, poultry, venison, and pork, are often mentioned as elements of a luxurious banquet; but undoubtedly the common food of all classes was vegetable, flavoured with lard or bacon. In this particular there was a great decline from the heroic ages. The warriors of Homer waxed strong and mighty on roast beef; but Regulus and Cincinnatus “ filled themselves,” as Lord Macaulay would say, with beans and bacon. The cattle slain in sacrifice, furnished, we must suppose, a special banquet for the epicure. Such, perhaps, were among the peculiar delicacies of the “ Sup- pers of the Pontiffs.”—Saturday Review, No. 98. The best French cooks are from Picardy; those from Orleans come next; then Flanders, Burgundy, Courtois, Lorraine; the Parisian last but one; the Norman last of all. A German dinner is remarkable for the simplicity of its cookery, in contrast with that in other parts of the Continent. Thus, at the primitive hour of one, after the soup, the invariably boiled beef revolves round the table, attended by its two “ satellites,”— a bowl of smoking brown gravy, and a dish of potatoes, or sliced pumpkin. Next comes fish, or fowls—then the pudding—and lastly, some sort of roast meat with its never-failing accompani- ments of stewed plums or pears, and salad. The table-d’hdte is probably best enjoyed in Germany, where it is frequented by persons of the highest rank, from grand dukes and princes downwards. The stranger will find much more urbanity here than in a similarly mixed assemblage in England: the topics and news of the day are discussed without restraint; and local or general information may frequently be thus obtained. Added to this, the best dinner is always to be had at the table- d’hote. It answers the landlord’s purpose to provide sumptu- ously, en gros, for a large company, and he, therefore, discourages dining in private. A table-d' hole dinner at Weimar usually opens with potage au viz and grated cheese. To this succeed plain boiled beef and