Lighting Rooms. As boiling water will often break cold glasses, so cold liquid will break hot glasses: thus, wine, if poured into decanters that have been placed before the lire, will frequently break them. In purchasing wax, spermaceti, or composition candles, there will be a saving by proportioning the length or size of the lights to the probable duration of the party. Mixed wax and spermaceti candles, four to the pound, will last ten hours; a short six will burn six hours; and a three, twelve hours. There should be as many lights at the dinner table as there are guests. Candle-making has become a scientific manufacture, especially in the hands of Price’s Company at Vauxhall, whose elegant modifications of the more costly wax-light give improved light for less money. Gas-lighting has been introduced into private houses, but with equivocal success. Mr. Lockhart well observes that “ the blaze and glow, and occasional odour of gas, when spread over every part of a private house, will ever constitute a serious annoyance for the majority of men—still more so of women.” Sir Walter Scott, in 1823, introduced gas-lighting into the dining-room at Abbotsford. “ In sitting down to table in autumn, no one observed that in each of three chandeliers there lurked a little tiny bead of red light. Dinner passed off, and the sun went down, and suddenly, at the turning of a screw, the room was filled with a gush of splendour, worthy of the palace of Aladdin; but, as in the case of Aladdin, the old lamp would have been better in the upshot. Jewellery sparkled, but cheeks and lips looked cold and wan in this fierce illumination ; and the eye was wearied, and the brow ached, if the sitting was at all protracted.”—Life of Scott, vol. v. American waiters are not fond of being called bjr the sound of a bell, and unless in large towns you scarcely see them in the United States. Bells, however, are not in universal use in Europe: they are more frequent in England than in any other country; even in France they ai-e far from general. In Turkey there are none, as Lord Byron tells us : Turkey contains no bells, and yet men dine. In some large establishments in Britain, the in-door signal for dinner is the loud sounding of a gong instead of the bell. Flowers have, of late years, been introduced at table with delightful effect. The Itomans, it is certain, considered flowers essential to their festal preparations; and, at their desserts, the number of flowers fur exceeded that of fruits. “ Thirteen to Dinner."—There is a prejudice, generally, on the pretended danger of being the thirteenth at table. If the