Hints jor the Table. 170 Mr. Pitt’s great recreation, after the fatigue of business, was stealing into the country, entering a clean cottage, where there was a tidy woman and a nicely scoured table; and there he would eat bread and cheese like any ploughman. He detested routs, and always sat down to plain dinners. He never eat before he went to the House of Commons; but when anything important was to be discussed, he was in the habit of taking a glass of port wine with a teaspoonful of bark in it. Yet Mr. Pitt was a man of princely hospitality, and amiable nature, as appears in the following extract from a letter wri tten by the Marquis Wellesley, who was an early, constant, and intimate friend of the illustrious statesman:— In all places, and at all times, his constant delight was society. There he shone with a degree of calm and steady lustre which often astonished me more than his most splendid efforts in Parliament. His manners were perfectly plain, without any affectation; not only was he without presumption or arrogance, or any air of authority, but he seemed utterly unconscious of his own superiority, and much more disposed to listen than to talk. He never betrayed any symptom of anxiety to usurp the lead or to display his own powers, hut rather inclined to draw forth othors, and to take merely an equal share in the general conversation: then he plunged heedlessly into the mirth of the hour, with no other care than to promote the general good humour and happiness of the company. His wit was quick and ready, but it was rather lively than sharp, and never envenomed with the least taint of malignity; so that, instead of exciting admiration or terror, it was an additional ingredient in the common enjoyment. He was endowed, beyond any man of his time whom I knew, with a gay and social heart. With these qualities, ho was the life and soul of his own society: his appearance dispelled all care ; his brow was never clouded, even in the severest public trials; and joy, and hope, and confidence, beamed from his countenance in every crisis of difficulty and danger.—Communicated to the Quarterly Hevieio. Lord Byron notes: “ What a wreck is Sheridan! and all from bad pilotage; for no one had ever better gales, though now and then a little squally. Poor dear Sherry! I shall never forget the day he, and Rogers, and Moore, and I passed together; when he talked, and we listened, without one yawn, from six to one in the morning.” One night, Sheridan was found in the street by a watchman, bereft of that “ divine particle of air,” called reason; and fuddled, and bewildered, and almost insensible. He, the watchman, asked, “ Who are you, sir ?”—no answer. “ What’s your name ?”—A hiccup. “ What’s your name P”—Answer, in a slow, deliberate, and impassive tone, “ Wilberforce!” Byron notes: “ Is not that Sherry all over P—and, to my mind, excellent. Poor fellow! his very dregs are better than the first sprightly runnings of others.” Ozias Linley, Sheridan’s brother-in-law, one day received a