Sportsmen’s Living. 11 which saturates the acid in the stomach, and allays the febrile action. Carbonate of Soda also neutralizes acid in the stomach ; and Liquorice is stated to have the same salutary effect. John Hunter used to say that most people lived above par, which rendered the generality of diseases and accidents the more difficult of cure. Baron Maseres who lived to be near ninety, and who never employed a physician, used to go one day in every week without dinner, eating only a round of dry toast at tea. sfoetmen’s living. Sir Humphry Davy in his Salnionia, is understood to record the following, as the opinion of Dr. Babington, on the erroneous idea, that high living is requisite to sustain us against the fatigues of sporting. “ A half-pint of wine for young men in perfect health is enough, and you will be able to take your exercise better, and feel better for this abstinence. How few people calculate upon the effects of constantly renewed fever in our luxurious system of living in England! The heart is made to act too powerfully, the blood is thrown upon the nobler parts, and with the system of wading, adopted by some sportsmen, whether in shooting or fishing, is delivered either to the hemor- rhoidal veins, or what is worse, to the head. I have known several free livers who have terminated their lives by apoplexy, or have been rendered miserable by palsy, in consequence of the joint effects of cold feet and too stimulating a diet; that is to say, as much animal food as they could eat, with a pint or per- haps a bottle of wine per day. Be guided by me, my friends, and neither drink nor wade. I know there are old men who have done both and have enjoyed perfect health; but they are devil’s decoys to the unwary, and ten suffer for one that escapes.” EXEECISE AND MEALS. Exercise should neither be taken immediately before, nor im- mediately after a full meal. Mr. Abernethy’s prescription is—to rise early and to use active exercise in the open air, till slight fatigue be felt, then to rest one hour and breakfast. After this rest three hours, in order that the energies of the constitution may be concentrated in the work of digestion; “ then take active exercise again for two hours, rest one, and dine. After dinner rest for three hours; and afterwards, in summer, take a gentle stroll, which, with an hour’s rest before supper, will constitute the plan of exercise for the day. In wet weather, the exercise may be taken in the house, by walking actively backwards and forwards, as sailors do on shipboard.”