27 The Art of Carving. very master of the house, posted opposite to her, might not act as her croupier; his department was to push the bottle after dinner. As for the crowd of guests, the most inconsiderable among them—the curate, or subaltern, or squire’s younger bro- ther—if suffered through her neglect to help himself to a slice of the mutton placed before him, would have chewed it in bitterness, and gone home an affronted man, half inclined to give a wrong vote at the next election. There were then professed carving- masters, who taught young ladies the art scientifically; from oue of whom Lady Mary Wortley Montague said she took lessons three times a week, that she might be perfect on her father’s days; when in order to perform her functions without interrup- tion, she was forced to eat her own dinner alone an hour or two beforehand.—Lord Whamcliffe's edition of the Correspond- ence of Lady W. Montague. You should praise, not ridicule your friend, who carves with as much earnestness of purpose as though he were legislating.— Dr. Johnson. When those persons who carve badly come to keep house themselves, they will soon find to their cost, the extravagance and waste of bad carving and bad management. In a club, nothing is so prejudicial as bad carving. A joint ill carved at first by one, is always disregarded by the other mem- bers ; and, frequently, from this circumstance, a joint of great weight and price is no longer presentable, and is left to the loss of the establishment.— Tide. In serving soup, one ladleful to each plate is sufficient. A knife applied to fish is likely to spoil the delicacy of its flavour; so that it should be helped with a silver slice or trowel, and be eaten with a silver fork and bread. Do not pour sauce over meat or vegetables, but a little on one side. In helping at table, never employ a knife where you can use a spoon. The fairest mode of cutting a ham, so as to eat fat and lean evenly, is to begin at a hole in the centre of the thickest part, and cut from it thin circular slices: by this means also the moisture and flavour of the ham are best preserved. The upper pai-t of a roast sirloin of beef should be carved at the end, and never cut in the middle, unless you wish to destroy the joint in revenge. Be careful always to cut down straight to the bone, by which method you never spoil the joint, and help many persons with little meat; what remains looks well, and is good to eat. In carving a leg of mutton, slice it lightly, else, if you press