89 Onion.—Horse- radish. THE ONION. The British onion* is one of the worst description, in compa- rison with the onions of Egypt and India, which are great deli- cacies. Spanish and Portuguese onions are mild, but do not keep well: they are only in perfection from August to December, when great quantities are sent by the wine-growers in Spain and Portugal as presents to their customers in this country. A dish of Spanish onions stewed in browii gravy is a worthy accompaniment to a roast capon. Prom 700 to 800 tons of onions are imported every year from Spain and Portugal, and in these countries it forms one of the most common and universal supports of life; it is remarkably nutritious, and contains from 25 to 30 per cent, of gluten. The Spanish or Reading onion is large, flat, white, and mild, and resembles the Portugal onion, but is better adapted for cul- tivation in this climate. HOBSE-EADISH. Several fatal cases of poisoning have occurred of late years by the accidental substitution of Monkshood, or Aconite, for Horse- radish. On January 22, 1856, three persons died at Dingwall, by this mistake at dinner. Hence it is important to note the distinctive characters between the two roots. Thus, Monkshood is conical in form, and tapers perceptibly to a point. Horse-radish is slightly conical, then cylindrical, and nearly of the same thickness throughout. Monkshood is coffee-coloured, or brownish, outside; while Horse-radish is white or yellowish-white. Monkshood tastes at first bitter, and then produces tingling; while Horse-radish tastes bitter or sweet, and very pungent. , The two roots, when scraped, are very different: Monkshood is succu- lent, and when scraped, soon turns pinkish; while Horse-radish scrapes firm and dry, and does not alter in colour. The odour of Monkshood is earthy; that of Horse-radish, in scraping, is very pungent and irritating. The only actual resemblance between the two roots is in then- crowns, and that is very slight. It seems, therefore, most extraordinary that a cook should, by any possibility, confound the two roots; since, in prepar- ing them for the table, one could not but observe the difference in colour, form, and odour. * Sir Thomas Browne, in a letter to his son, Edward, dated 1676, says: “ I have heard that St. Omar was a place famous for good onyons, and furnished many parts therewith; some were usually brought into England, and some transplanted, winch were cryed about London, and by a mistake called St. Thomas onyons.”