106 Hints for the Table. possible; since they lose much of their flavour in a few hours. Mulberries should also be eaten only when fresh gathered. The finest dessert cherries are the Mayduke, Bigarreau, white- heart Waterloo, and black-heart. Dried cherries are a very useful article for the dessert in winter and spring. They are gathered when ripe, kept free from bruises, and dried upon earthenware dishes in a very cool oven. Large gooseberries have mostly less flavour than the smaller kinds. The yellow gooseberries have generally a much richer and more vinous flavour than the white. The Warrington red is perhaps the best dessert fruit. The white Dutch currants, with yellow fruit, are by far the sweetest and are preferable for dessert. PLUMS. Plums ripen nearly throughout six months in the year : among the fine dessert varieties are the green-gage, violette, early Orleans, and Morocco; Cox’s plum, the Imperatrice, oblong, with thick bloom ; the nectarine, purple gage, and violet diaper. A fine green-gage has a yellowish-green skin with a purplish tint, marbled with russety, muddy red; the flesh is very melting, and the juice abundant, sugary, and of delicious flavour. The cherry plum, like the Bigarreau cherry, is very handsome in the dessert. Cox’s plum has been kept twelve months, by wrapping it in soft paper, and storing it in a dry room. Green-gages, when grown upon a healthy standard, though not so large, are much richer than when they are produced against a wall. The Brignole plum is named from Brignole, a town of France, famous for its prunes, of which this ranks among the best sorts. Prunes, on the Continent, are stewed, and served as a winter dessert-dish; but in this country they are mostly used in medi- cine. They are prepared in France chiefly from the St. Catharine plum ; and in Portugal, from a plum which is named from the village of Guimarens, where they are principally dried. They contain so large a quantity of sugar, that brandy is distilled from them when fermented ; and it has even been proposed to manu- facture sugar from them. PEACH, ETC. Peaches of the best kind have the flesh firm, the skin thin, of a deep or bright red colour next the sun, and of a yellowish-green next the wall; the pulp should be yellowish, highly flavoured, and juicy, and the stone small. Nectarines should be chosen by the same rule as peaches. The peach-apricot is finest and largest; but the old Moor Park apricot is much prized.