116 Hints for the Table. present century. It was as abundant as 1831: superior to that year in fulness and flavour, and can only find its equal in 1811, known by the name of the “ Comet-year.” We had thus a second comet-year, quite as abundant. Observations made with the greatest care proved that the grape arrived at complete ma- turity, and exempt from any kind of malady, fermented with the most satisfactory rapidity; that the gleuconometer (the instru- ment which gives the strength of the juice when first pressed) marked 13^, while in ordinary years it does not exceed 11 or 12; that the colour was beautiful, and the bouquet already deve- loped. The first growths have a rare degree of delicacy and homogeneity, and the good ordinary wines, and even the most common, deserve to be classified this year in a higher rank than is ordinarily assigned to them. The Cote-d’Or will again acquire all the prestige attached to its name, and, with the wines of 1858, must satisfy the most difficult tastes, and defy all com- petition. Mr. Musgrave, in his observations made in Burgundy, or the Cote-d’Or, says: “ When a regiment on march gains first sight of the Clos Yougeot, the officer in command gives orders to present arms,” to acknowledge the supremacy of the grape. “ The Chambertin estate comprises less than twenty acres—Golden Fields or Golden Slopes, as the people style them. Near it lies the Clos Napoleon. The pressoir, the crushing machinery three hundred years old, is a ponderous structure that exhibits no indications of decay; its component parts have been but slightly altered since the main post—the entire stem of a fine oak—supporting the screw apparatus, was sunk twenty feet deep into the ground, before Louis XIV. was born! But the richest wine does not flow from this machine; it is the fruit of the first crush, the bursting of the grapes under their own pressure when heaped in a vat, and left for hours to distil into the trough be- neath. Little of this splendid wine reaches England; it is fre- quently stolen on the way, almost always adulterated. The Roussillon wines require age: and, if originally of fine qualitv, they are not in perfection unless they have been ten or twelve years in bottle. Sauterne has not quite so much strength as Barsac; but it is very fine and mellow. Barsac is distinguished by its strength and flavour in good years, and is generally lively and sparkling, and very mellow. Barsac and oysters are a first-rate luncheon. Both these wines keep well: some Sauterne that dates from the middle of the last century, is said to be in existence. Vin-de-Bar, which grows at Bar-le-Duc, is a wine not much known in England, but is in considerable estimation in France.