39 Salmon.—Turbot. boiling. There is a considerable extent of the rock where tents were erected, and the whole was under a canopy of overhanging trees. There the company are said to have waited till a salmon fell into the kettle and, was boiled in their presence; “ a mode of entertainment, I confess,” says Mr. Hofland, “ myself inca- pable of coveting, being too much of a sportsman, and too little of an epicure, to desire conquest so unworthy, and cooking so unnatural.” There is annually given at Aberdeen, “ a Eoyal Salmon Dinner,” at which sometimes as man}'- as two hundred guests enjoy “ the fine fish.” Probably the largest salmon ever heard of, in the London market, wa3 in the possession of Mr. Grove, of New Bond-street: it weighed eighty-three pounds. So successful has the artificial breeding of salmon become in France, that whereas, a few years ago, it was di fficult to procure this fish in Paris for less than three or four shillings per pound, it can now be sold as low as sixpence per pound. Salmon Cutlets are fried as follows : Dip slices of salmon into Florence oil, strew over them Cayenne pepper and salt, and wrap them in oiled paper; fry them ten minutes in boiling lard, and then lay the papered cutlets on a gridiron, over a clear fire, for three minutes longer. In broiling salmon, set the gridiron on a slope, with a vessel to receive the oil that drains off, which, if it fell into the fire, would spoil the fish.* Dried salmon should be very red when cut; otherwise it is a bad fish. The Parr, very like a small trout, is a most delicious little fish when fried; and when potted, equal to the Charr. TUEBOT. The best proof of condition in the Turbot is the thickness of the body, and an opaque light cream-colour on the pale side; if thin, with a bluish cast, like water tinged with butter-milk, the fish is out of season. In 1832, a turbot weighing 192 pounds was caught off Whitby. From fifteen to twenty pounds is the usual weight, but a turbot of a single pound weight has a very fine flavour. * In 1842, a poor fellow was taken before the authorities of Paris, for begging in the streets. He had studied the science of Cookery under the celebrated Careme, and was the inventor of the delicious Saumons trvffes a la troche: he attributed his poverty to the decline of Cookery from a science to a low art! Wo remember to have rend that cooks, in nine cases out of ten, after ministering to the luxury of the opulent, creep into holes and comers, and pass neglected out of the world,