123 Wines : Catawba and Isabella. cellars, the following benediction is pronounced over the precious tipple: “Lord God, thou who lovest mankind, direct thine eyes to this wine, and those who shall drink it: bless our vessels, thrice blessed, as the wells of Jacob, and the pool of Siloam, and as thou hast blessed this drink of the Apostles. 0 Lord, thou who wast present at the wedding at Cana, and by changing the water into wine, revealed thy glory to thy disciples, send thy Holy Spirit on this wine, and bless it in thy name.” Great mistakes are made in judging of wine merely by its age. It is the year or vintage—not the mere lapse of time which stamps the value. Thus, hock of 1811, (the comet year,) is more valuable than hock of 1801, and claret of 1834, than claret of 1824. AMEKICAN WINES. Catawba is a delicious American white wine, grown in Ohio and Virginia, and Missouri: it is both still and sparkling, and was one of the native wines which obtained a prize at the Crystal Palace Exhibition in New York. In the latter State is grown the Isabella, another favourite wine. Catawba is, however, the principal wine, and is a great favourite in Kentucky and Ten- nessee. In comparing these wines with those of Europe, we must bear in mind that they are distinct in flavour from any or all of them. It is their peculiarity that no spurious compound can be made to imitate them, and in purity and delicacy there is no known wine to equal them. The most expensive wine in Europe, Tokay, is also the lowest in alcoholic per centage, 9'85. Now, still Catawba shows a per centage of 9-50 only, being, in fact, the lowest per centage of spirit to be found in any wine in the world. In the United States, the native wines are fast supplanting the foreign, espe- cially the sparkling kinds; and at the hotels the majority of the wines are home. Catawba and Isabella are also largely grown in California; there, and in Texas, grapes of superior colour and flavour are grown “ as large as plums.” In Texas, the El Paso and Mus- tang are very fine wines; the latter has been pronounced the port wine grape, of superior quality and yield. BBITISH WINES. Of the juice of the giant rhubarb leaf-stalks may be made a delicious wine, equal to green gooseberry, and very closely re- sembling champagne. The manufacturers of British wine for sale employ the firs! wort from malt, to supply the deficiency of sugar in our native fruits; they find this substitute economical, especially when beer