Hints for the Table. 48 It would be worth the trouble of a journey to Austria to a gourmet, to eat the delicious trout there. They are the fish bred in the snow-fed rivulets of the Alps, brought from thence, and prepared for the table in stews, perforated with holes, sunk in some running stream. They are carefully fed; and when re- quired for the table, make but one leap from the cold water into the saucepan. They are served either fried, or simply boiled, in their own dark blue coats, beautifully spotted with red; and when in good condition, have all the firmness of the white of an egg. Trout, from half a pound to a pound weight, if split open, and sprinkled with cayenne pepper and salt, and broiled, are excel- lent for breakfast. The following are two choice old receipts for dressing trout:— “ Broi/lecl Trouts’’ (1657.) Take out the entrails, cut the fish across the side, and wash them: fill the cuts with thyme, marjoram, and parsley, chopped fine; set the gridiron on a charcoal fire, rub the bars with suet, and lay the trouts on, basting them with fresh butter, until they are well “ broyled.” Serve with a sauce of butter and vinegar, and the yolk of an egg, beaten well together. To Stew Trout.—Clean and cut them, and broil them on a charcoal fire; then melt in a stewpan, half a pound of fresh butter, a lit tle beaten cinnamon, and some vinegar; put in the fish, cover it up, and stew it over a chafing-dish for half an hour; then squeeze a lemon on the fish, beat up the sauce, and dish for service. This is the old English fashion. The Italian stews his fish with white wine, cloves, and mace, nutmegs sliced, and a little ginger. The French add a slice or two of bacon. SMELTS. GUDGEONS. FLOUNDERS. BARBEL. Smelts are caught in vast quantities on the shores of the Scheldt. The name smelt is Hutch, from the fish seeming to melt away and disappear, when disturbed by the fisherman. Smelts are served upon a silver skewer run through the gills. Smelts are now supplied in Loudon in much greater abuudance than formerly, as large numbers are brought from Holland, but they are not considered so fine as those of our own coast. London formerly used to be supplied from the Medway at Rochester, where smelts were considered the best; a custom existed for the Corporation of Rochester to present the Lord Mayor of London, on his visit to that town, on occasion of the triennial visitation to Yantlet Creek, with a dish of smelts. Smelts were never known in the Dublin market till 1848, when they were received from an enterprising Englishman on the west coast of Ireland. Gudgeons, if fried of a nice pale brown, almost come up to the smelt in flavour. At Bath they are little, if at all, inferior to the most delicate smelts. They occur in the Parisian cartes a diner.