182 Hints for the Table. It is. related that at a roaring dinner of a round dozen of jolly Irishmen, all were extended in due time upon the floor, ex- cept two heroes, who drank seven bottles of claret more between them, and beginning then to complain of a great “ chill in their stomachs,’ from that thin cold French stuff, finished a bottle of brandy between them, and walked home (somehow or other). Alexander Newell, Dean of St. Paul’s, and Master of West- minster School, in the reign of Queen Mary, was an excellent angler. But (says Puller) while Newell was catching of fishes, Bishop Bonner was catching of Newell, and would certainly have sent him to the shambles, had not a good London merchant con- veyed him away upon the seas. Newell was fishing upon the banks of the Thames when he received the first intimation of his danger, which was so pressing, that he dare not go back to his own house to make any preparation for his flight. Like an honest angler, he had taken with him provision for the day: and when, in the first year of England’s deliverance, he returned to his country and his old haunts, he remembered that, on the day of his flight, he had left a bottle of beer in a safe place on the bank; there he looked for it, and “ found it no bottle, but a gun—such the sound at the opening thereof; and this (says Puller) is be- lieved (casualty is mother of more invention than industry) the origin of Bottled Ale in England.” The pleasures of the table, when used in moderation, admit of some defence; they promote social intercourse. Man, unlike animals, is in best humour when he is feeding, and more dis- posed than at other times to cultivate those amicable relations by which the bonds of society are strengthened. The influence of this principle is more acknowledged in England than in any other country. With us, no public meeting is valid without a dinner; no party leader is chartered in public estimation, till his services have been anticipated or acknowledged, and his public principles pledged, amidst circling bumpers and convivial cheers. Even ■charity obeys the same law ; and the beneficent institutions for the sick, and the lame, and the blind, find increase of propriety in then- annual festive celebrations.—Mayo. Sir Walter Scott has left these few simple rules of presidency: “ 1st. Always hurry the bottle round for five or six rounds, without prosing yourself, or permitting others to prose. A slight filip of wine inclines people to be pleased., and removes the ner- vousness which prevents men from speaking—disposes them, in short, to be amusing, and to be amused. “ 2nd. Push on, keep moving! as young Rapid says. Do not think of saying fine things—nobody cares for them any more