66 Hints for the Table. Bubble-and-squeak is a favourite dish in Shropshire. George IV., when Prince of Wales, happened to partake of it at a bachelor’s table in that county, and the homely dish was after- wards frequently seen at Carlton House. In the Salters’ Company’s books is the following receipt to make a Game Pie for Christmas, in the reign of Bichard II. Take a pheasant, a hare, a capon, two partridges, two pigeons, and two rabbits; bone them, and put them into paste the shape of a bird, with the livers and hearts, two mutton kidneys, force- meats, and egg-balls, seasoning, spice, ketchup, and pickled mush- rooms, tilled up with gravy made from the various bones. A pie was so made by the Company’s cook in 1836, and was found to be excellent; which proves that our ancestors excelled in cookery more than four centuries and a half ago. Poultry and Game. THE TUEKEy. The turkey ranks as one of the most useful benefits conferred by America on the rest of the world.* Though surpassed in ex- ternal beauty by the peacock, its flesh is greatly superior in excellence, standing almost unrivalled for delicacy of texture and agreeable sapidity. Ou this account, it has been naturalized with astonishing rapidity throughout the world, and almost universally constitutes a favourite banquet dish. The Indians value it so highly, when roasted, that they call it “the white man’s dish,” and present it to strangers as the best they can offer. In Eng- land, the rapid increase of turkeys had rendered them attainable at country feasts as early as the year 1585. Our name for them is very absurd; as it conveys the false idea that the turkey originated in Asia; owing to the ridiculous habit, formerly pre- valent, of calling every foreign object by the name of Turk, Indian, &c. Wild turkeys have been shot, in their native woods, weighing thirty and even forty pounds, and standing three feet higb.f * When M. Brillat-Savarin, judge of the Court of Cassation, and an amateur gastronomer, was in America, once, on his return from a shooting excursion, in which he shot a wild turkey, he-fell into conversation with Jefferson, who began relating some interesting anecdotes about Wash- ington and the war; when, observing the air distrait of M. Brillat- Savarin, he stopped, and was about to go away: “ My dear sir,” said the gastronomer, “ I beg a thousand pardons, but I was thinking how I should dress my wild turkey.” f The Culloden l)uke of Cumberland introduced into Windsor Forest great herds of red and fallow deer, and encouraged a breed of wild turkeys;