Hints for the Table. 132 So much is the specific gravity of alcohol liquors affected by change of temperature, that thirty-two gallons of spirits in winter will measure thirty-three gallons in summer. Of this fact, spirit merchants take advantage, by making tlieir large purchases in winter, and effecting their sales in summer. French Brand}' being hut slightly rectified, is not strong, but contains usually nearly half its weight of water. The reason of this is that the re-distillation of the spirit injures the volatile oil obtained from the grape or wine. Yet, much of the French brandy imported into this country consists either in part or wholly of corn spirit, and more frequently of beet-root spirit. “British Brandy ” consists mostly of corn-spirit, flavoured. To improve it, put about eight French plums into every pint of spirit; steep for ten days, when strain the spirit, and it will have much of the flavour of French brandy. Put five or six drops of the water of ammonia into a bottle of brandy, cork it, and shake it well; and if the brandy be new, it will acquire nearly all the qualities of that of the oldest date. The trade mode of reducing brandy, as given in evidence on a trial, is to add three pints of water to ten gallons of spirits, by which it will be reduced from seven under proof, to ten and one- eighth under proof. In America, a liquor named cider-brandy is obtained by distil- lation from cider. A very strong liquid is got by allowing cider to be frozen, and then drawing off the fluid portion. But, a far more wholesome liquor than either is the pomoua wine, which is prepared by adding one gallon of brandy to six of cider, after it is racked off. Eum is generally valued from its great age, but long keeping is not so requisite to the goodness of all kinds as may be ima- gined. Bum of a brownish transparent colour, smooth oily taste, strong body and consistence, good age, and well kept, is the best. That of a clear limpid colour, and hot pungent taste, is either too new, or mixed with other spirits. Sliced pine-apple put into rum gives it the flavour of the fruit, and hence the designation, pine-apple rum; but chemists imitate this flavour so closely as to convert not only ordinary rum but even ordinary spirit into “Pine-apple Rum.” Good shrub is delicious: were it fashionable, it would be ranked as a liqueur. Until the distillation of whisky was prohibited in the High- lands, it was never drunk at gentlemen’s tables. “ Mountain Dew,” and such poetic names, are of modern origin, since this liquor became fashionable.