Giving Dinners. 23 1 have silt in durance stately to go through the ceremony of a dinner, the essence of which is to be without dinner; and how olten in this land of liberty I have thought myself a slave. Such is now the mania for large parties, or so absorbing the vanity of caste, that, during the flush of the London season, there is no longer a semblance oi sociability—nor can even pleasure, in anil by itself, be deemed the main object of pursuit: for, we verily believe that if all the pleasantest people in town were collected in a room, the men and women of “society” would bo restless in it, unless they could say they were going to the ball or wncert of the night:— “ Which opens to the happy few An earthly paradise of or-molu.” Quarterly Review. It is a foolish plan to profess to give dinners better than other people. “ Unless you are a very rich, or a very great man, no folly is equal to that of thinking that you soften the hearts of your friends, by soups a la bisque and Vermuth wine, at a guinea a bottle! They all go away, saying, ‘ What right has that d—d fellow to give a better dinner than we do ? What horrid taste —what ridiculous presumption! ’ ”—JBulwer. When will mankind cease to be hoaxed with the idea that the pleasures of society are in proportion to the grandeur of the scale on which they are enjoyed. One of the greatest sources of com- plaint in society is the want of propriety in the conducting of entertainments in all their varieties, from the simple family din- ner to the splendid banquet: for instance, a family dinner; a family dinner to which guests are admitted; a common dinner party; an entertainment; a bachelor’s dinner; a ministerial dinner; and a dress dinner. Though these and similar enter- tainments are distinct, yet the distinctions are not so strictly observed as those in other usages of societ}'. At the plainest as well as of the most splendid of these entertainments, everything ought to be as good and as well cooked, and nice as possible; but the style of service ought to be varied, rising from the simple, in elegant succession, to the sumptuous. Splendid banquets are often failures. Foote thus describes one: “ As to splendour, as far as it went, I admit it, there was a very- fine sideboard of plate; and if a man could have swallowed a silversmith’s shop, there was enough to satisfy him ; but as to all the rest, the mutton was white, the veal was red, the fish was kept too long, the venison not kept long enough : to sum up all, every thing was cold except the ice, and every thing sour except the vinegar.” A shabby, scheming system of giving dinners is thus satirized by Bulwer : “The cook puts plenty of ilour into the oyster sauce;