57 Water-souchy.—Sardines.—Anchovies. WATER-SOUCHY.* There are two methods of making Water-souchy. It may not only be made clear, but, by sacrificing a good many fish, stewing them well with parsley, roots, &c., as usual, and then pulping them through a sieve, an excellent purie is produced, which makes a delicious accompaniment to the large and entire fish served therein. SARDINES.—ANCHOVIES.—PILCHARDS. The Sardine, the delicious little fish which the gourmets of Paris so much delight in, when preserved in oil, and sent to their capital in tin boxes, is still more exquisite when eaten fresh on the shores which it frequents. The Sardine is caught in immense quantities along the southern coast of Brittany, and on the western shore of Finisterre, as far northward as Brest. It comes into season about the middle of June. The preserving and boxing for Paris is almost all done at Nantz, whither the fish are carried for the purpose. A large quantity are also salted. They are caught with nets from 12 to 15 feet wide, and 400 or 500 feet long. The genuine Gorgona Anchovy is of small size, silvery, and rather flat, the line of the back slightly curved; the flesh varies with age: if three months old, it will be pale; if six months old, rather pink; and if twelve months old, a beautiful deep pink colour. The scales separate from the surface with so much ease, that it is a common notion that the anchovy is not possessed of this integument. In eating the fish, the head must be taken off, on account of its bitterness, a quality which has obtained for this species the name of enchrasicolus, from a strange idea that the gall-bladder is in the head. Anchovies are closely imitated by the French merchants, by curing Sardines in red brine, and packing them in wine casks. Sardines are, however, flatter and larger than anchovies. When perfectly fresh, the former are accounted excellent fish; but, if kept for any time, they entirely lose their flavour and become quite insipid. Pilchards should be eaten as fresh as possible ; they have a fine curdy flavour if dressed when just taken from the nets, but they acquire an oily taste in a few hours after death. * Water-souchy was formerly as fashionable a tavern dish ns white-bait is at present. We remember a vast inn at Dorking, once celebrated for its water-souchy: it originally bore the sign of the Chequers, but was changed at the Kcstoration to the Old King’s Head.