129 The Loving Cup. raisin or ginger wine, prepared as above, and stirred hot to the yolks of four fresh eggs, will be found excellent. In the Curiosities of London, we find this illustration of a civic custom, which is honoured to this day :— The Loving Cup is a splendid feature of the Hall-feasts of the City and Inns of Court. The cup is of silver or silver-gilt, and is filled with spiced wine, immemorially termed “ sack.” Immediately after the dinner and grace, the Master and Wardens drink to their visitors a hearty welcome; the cup is then passed round the table, and each guest, after he has drunk, applies his napkin to the mouth of the cup before he passes it to his neighbour. The more formal practice is for the person who pledges with the loving cup to stand up and bow to his neighbour, who, also standing, removes the cover with his right hand, and holds it while the other drinks; a custom said to have originated in the precaution to keep the right, or dagger-hand, employed, that the person who drinks may be assured of no treachery, like that practised by Elfrida on the unsuspecting King Edward the Martyr at Corfe Castle, who was slain while drinking. This was why the loving cup possessed a cover.—F. W- Fairholt, F.S.A. The Art of Drinking Wine. Eating has its rationale, and in well-conditioned society its rules of propriety are as closely observed as any other part of the system by which we live and have our being; and but little pains is requisite to prove that drinking should be reduced to the same order. To commence refection with drinking Tokay or Lachryma Christi, would be as great a breach of propriety as to eat game before soup. A French epicurean wine-drinker decrees, that the red wines should always precede the white, except in a French dinner, usually preceded by oysters. In this case, the ostreal delicacies should be saluted with a treble volley of Chablis; or, for greater solemnity, with libations of Pouilly, or Mont-Rfiehet; or even with Sauteme, Barsac, or White Hermitage. But, for this im- portant reason, red wine should open the repast. Our French exemplars assert the most proper wine during the first course to be, without any contradiction, Burgundy of the least celebrated growth, and which, for this reason, is known as Low Burgundy. Such are Avallon, Coulange, Tonnere, and generally all those known under the designation of Macon and Auxerre. You then ascend to Baume and Pomard; and if you choose to confine yourself to the Burgundian topography, you have the generous Richebourg, the high-flavoured St- George, the purple Chambertin, and the exquisite Romande. But, if you can ill bear the trammels of classification, and wish to give a fillip to your taste by change of flavour and soil, Champagne K