Hints for the Table. ] 66 “ Affltf-house,” and he used to boast of the comfort of being covered at meal-time. Lord Byron describes “ a largish party” as “ first silent, then talky, then argumentative, then disputatious, then unintel- ligible, then altogethery, then drunkhe also mentions “ a cork- screw staircase, which had certainly been constructed before the discovery ol fermented liquors, and to which no legs, however crooked, could possibly accommodate themselves.” Maplett, in his Green Forest (1567), says, it is reported “ that the ele being killed and addressed in wine, whosoever chanceth to drinke of that wine so used, shall ever after lothe wine.” A wit once said to a water-drinker with a purple face, “ better things might, primd facie, be expected.” Dr. Franklin pleasantly observes, that the only animals created to drink water, are those who from their conformation are able to lap it on the surface of the earth; whereas, all those who can convey their hands to their mouth were destined to enjoy the juice of the grape. The occasional worshippers of Bacchus come off cheaply; ’tis those who imitate the fuddling Silenus that generally drop into an early grave. As a witty old gentleman once said in the hearing of some of his hard-going neighbours, “ they never dry their nets.” The habitual characteristic sobriety of the Highlander’s de- portment often belies the copiousness of his potations of whisky, and he will preserve the most perfect decorum under the influence of a quantity of spirits which would render an Irishman frantic. “The Irish,” said Sir Jonah Barrington, “are drunk before dinner, and mad after it.” “ Always drinking and never drunk,” is, on the contrary, the maxim of the most intemperate High- landers. It has been written of the Irish, that they make you welcome by making you drunk. But it is to this generous virtue, excess of hospitality, that excess in wine is greatly to be attributed. Then, again, Irish gentlemen have long been renowned for one incentive to drinking, beyond the excellence of their punch and claret—namely, the novelty and point of their convivial toasts. This once called forth the cutting remark, that an Irish squire spent one-half of his day in inventing toasts, and the other half in drinking them.—Nimrod. The author of The Parson’s Daughter, when surprised one evening in his arm-chair, two or three hours after dinner, is reported to have apologized by saying, “When one is alone the