Hints for the Table. 178 however, prudently made a calculation (hewas an excellent steward,) of the expenses of married life, and in the estimate set down Madame’s expenditure at so many louis. Now, Ude customarily conveyed his billets in an envelope of pat6s, and he intended to shroud his offer in a pdte d’Amandc; but, unfortunately, in the confusion of love and cookery, the estimate of housekeeping was sent instead of the proposal. The next day, Ude was apprised of his mistake by a letter from his mistress, stating the high esti- mation in which she held M. Ude; but that as louis were too small an allowance for a woman of fashion, she must decline the honour of becoming Madame Ude. The story got wind, and by a sort of lucus-a-non-lucendo analogy, the name of Paid d’Amandc was changed into Pate d'Amour. Mr. Coleridge’s was the only conversation we ever heard in which the ideas seemed set to music—it had the materials of philosophy and the sound of music; or if the thoughts were sometimes poor and worthless, the accompaniment was always fine. Coleridge sometimes told a story well, though but rarely. He used to speak with some drollery and unction of his meeting in his tour in Germany with a Lutheran clergyman, who ex- pressed a great curiosity about the fate of Dr. Dodd in a Latin gibberish which he could not at first understand. “ Doctorem Toit, Doctorem Tott ! Infelix homo, collo suspensus !”—he called out in an agony of suspense, fitting the action to the word, and the idea of the reverend divine just then occurring to Mr. Coleridge’s imagination. The Germans have a strange super- stition that Dr. Dodd is still wandering in'disguise in the Hartz forest in Germany; and his Prison Thoughts are a favourite book with the initiated. Sir James Mackintosh had a great deal of humour; and, among many other examples of it, he kept a dinner party at his own house for two or three hours in a roar of laughter, playing upon the simplicity of a Scotch cousin, who had mistaken the Rev. Sydney Smith for his gallant synonym, the hero of Acre. Cookery was quite as much the Earl of Peterborough’s hobby as War. It appears to have been far from unusual for him to assist at the preparation of a feast over which he was about to preside; and, when at Bath, he was occasionally seen about the streets, in his blue ribbon and star, carrying a chicken in his hand, and a cabbage, perhaps, under eacli arm. Cambaceres, second consul under the French republic, and arch-chancellor under the empire, having one day been detained in consultation with Napoleon beyond the appointed hour of dinner, begged pardon for suspending the conference, but it was