9 Drinking at Meals. the singular remark that anger causes bile to flow into the stomach; hence the indigestion of the choleric man. A black frost gives a glorious appetite. Corned beef and greens send up in their steam your soul to heaven. The music of knives and forks is like that of “ flutes and soft recorders,” “ breathing deliberate valourand think, oh think! how the imagination is roused by the power of contrast between the gor- cock lying with his buttered breast on the braid of his back upon a bed of toasted bread, and whurring away in vain down the wind before the death shock.—“ Nodes ” of Blackwood. DRINKING AT MEALS. When fat meats, or sauces composed partly of butter, are taken, and cold drink directly after, the butter and fat are ren- dered concrete, and separated from the rest of the aliment. This congealed oily matter being then specifically lighter than the remaining contents of the stomach, swims on the top of the food, often causing heavy, uneasy, and painful sensations about the cardia and breast, and sometimes a feeling of scalding and anxiety; at other times, when the stomach regains its heat, this fatty matter is rejected, by little and little, from weak stomachs, in oily regurgitations, which are very disagreeable. In such cases a little compound spirits of hartshorn, with a glass of warm water and sugar, will convert the fat into a soap, and give instant relief.—Sir Janies Murray's Medical Essays. Weak alcoholic drinks gently stimulate the digestive organs, and help them to do their work more fully and faithfully; and thus the body is sustained to a later period in life. Hence poets have called Wine “ the milk of the old,” and scientific philosophy owns the propriety of the term. If it does not nourish the old so directly as milk nourishes the young, yet it certainly does aid in support- ing and filling up their failing frames. And it is one of the happy consequences of a temperate youth and manhood, that this spirituous milk does not fail in its good effects when the weight of years begins to press upon us.—Johnston’s Chemistry of Common Life. Dr. Mayo observes, that nothing produces thirst so much as quenching it, or grows more readily into habit than drinking. Much liquid weakens the stomach, and produces flatulence and fat. WATER-DRINKING. It by no means follows in all cases, perhaps not even in the majority, that the purest water is the best for the health of a given family, or for the population of a given district. The