Iiock and Soda Water. 139 The cabbage is stated in a French journal to be a sovereign remedy for intoxication from wine, and even ^o have the power of preventing it; for we are assured that by eating a certain quantity of cabbage before dinner, we may drink wine ad libitum, without experiencing inconvenience. Brandy has been found a perfect antidote to drunkenness from beer. A man upon whom the experiment was inadvertently made in the south of France, described himself after the intoxica- tion had left him, as “ awakened from a long and painful dream.” This curious remedy has since been tried, and always with suc- cess : and a French physician has verified it. Onion soup is thought highly restorative by the French. It is considered peculiarly grateful, and gently stimulating to the stomach after hard-drinking or night-watching, and holds among soups the place that soda-water, Champagne, or ginger-beer does among liquors. Who does not recollect a first bottle of wine, unequalled by its successors! We remember ordering a bottle of Grave at the Tete-de-Bceuf, at Abbeville, which was marked in the carte at three francs. It came—people may talk of Rudesheim, Bur- gundy, and Hermitage, and all the wines that ever the Rhone or the Rhine produced, but never was their wine like that bottle of Grave. We drank it slowly, and lingered over the last glass, as if we had a presentiment that we should never meet with its like again. When it was gone, quite gone, we ordered another bottle. But no—it was not the same wine. We sent it away, and in vain;—and another—there was no more of it to be had. Soda Water and Summer Drinks. Hock and soda-water make one of the most delicious suc- cedanea to an excess of wine:— Get very drunk; and when You wake with head-ache, you shall see what then,—• Ring for your valet, hid him quickly bring Some hock and soda-water, then you’ll know A pleasure worthy Xerxes the great king; For not the best sherbet sublimed with snow, Nor the first sparkle of the desert spring, Nor Burgundy in all its sunset glow, After long travel; ennui, love, or slaughter, Vie with that draught of hock and soda-water.—Byron. Soda-water is the simplest stimulating liquid. To permanently weak stomachs it is generally unwholesome. It is always un- wholesome during a meal, but is an excellent beverage at some interval afterwards.