Hints for the Table. 102 In the neighbouring county of Gloucester, however, a glass of good mild ale is sought for in vain.—Nimrod. BITTER BEER. None of the substances which have been employed or recom- mended to replace or supplant the use of the hop approach it in imparting those peculiar properties which have given the English bitter beer of the present day its high reputation. The love of beer and hops has been planted by Englishmen in America. It has accompanied them to their new empires in Australia, New Zealand, and the Cape. In the East, their home-taste remains unquenched, and the pale ale of England follows them to re- motest India.—F. W. Johnston. In the year 1850, it was asserted by M. Payen, that strychnine was commonly employed by brewers in the manufacture of “ bitter beer,” or “ pale alewhen the chief brewing firm of England, Messrs. Allsopp and Sons publicly denied, in the most unequivocal terms, that strychnine, or any other deleterious sub- stance, was ever employed by them in the manufacture of their beer.* And, on forty samples of their ales being examined by the “ Analytical Sanitary Commission,” they were all found to consist of the products of malt and hops, and the constituents of pure spring-water, no other ingredient of any kind being discovered, either organic or inorganic. Subsequently, M. Payen explained, acknowledging that his statement was “ far from being based upon ascertained facts.” “These bitter beers,” says the Lancet, “differ from all other preparations of malt, in containing a smaller amount of extractive matter, thus being less viscid and saccharine, and consequently more easy of digestion ; they resemble, indeed, from their lightness, a wine of malt rather than an ordinary fer- mented infusion, and it is very satisfactory to find that a beverage of such general consumption is entirely free from every kind of impurity.” CIDER AND PERRY. Ciders contain little extractive, or solid nutritious matter. No bitter or narcotic ingredient has been added to them. They contain, on an average, about nine per cent, of alcohol—thus, resembling in strength the common hock, the weaker cham- pagnes, and our stronger English ales. In Normandy not less than 5000 differently-named varieties of the acid or bitter apple are known, and grown for the manu- facture of cider. Some of these varieties are distinguished by as many as eighteen different names. * Messrs Allsopp commenced building, in 1858, the largest brewery in the world, for brewing Pale Ale only.