96 Hints for the Table. old sorts. It is called the Victoria plum; it thrives everywhere, is prolific, handsome, and good in flavour. It will, there is no doubt, for centuries to come, maintain its form, and remind people of the reign of good Queen Victoria. The winesour is the most valuable of all our plums for preserving, and great quantities preserved are sent annually from Wakefield and Leeds to distant parts of England. They will keep one or two years, and are preferable to those imported from abroad. Preserves and jellies made in copper vessels are always con- taminated more or less with copper; and in green preserves, copper is used intentionally for increasing the colour. The jellies in bottles, and those sold by confectioners as isinglass and calf’s- foot jelly, consist principally of gelatine, variously coloured. Bottled fruits and preserved vegetables are subject to the same poisonous processes as in pickling. Thus, gooseberries and gages are greened by copper. Red fruits have their colour heightened by beet-root, especially if they are damaged, or of inferior quality. Orange marmalade, when genuine, consists wholly of the Seville or bitter orange; but, for cheapness’ sake, is frequently adulterated with sweet oranges, apples, and turnips. A yellow kind of Swede turnip is much used for this purpose; and partly decayed and even sucked oranges are used in the spurious mar- malade. Richmond “Maids of Honour” are delicious cheese-cakes, peculiar to Richmond in Surrey, and doubtless named from its regal days, when Richmond had its royal palace and court. It is stated that one thousand pounds was once paid to the fortunate possessor of the receipt for making this cheese-cake, with the good-will of the business, said to have been originally established in Hill Street, Richmond. George III. had his tables at Windsor Castle and Kew regularly supplied with these cheese-cakes.— Things not Generally Known. Macaroons are many hundred years old; for we find them men- tioned as a kind of delicate sweetmeat placed before hermits by hospitable persons. The poisonous essential oil of bitter almonds, or “ flavouring,” as it is called, is now prepared by chemists for the use of dealers in cordials, to make the genuine “ noyeauand for confectioners and cooks, to give a fine bitter flavour to custards, cakes, &c. Many of the baneful effects which have been so frequently attri- buted to confectionary and the use of copper vessels, have pro- bably been produced by this poison. Although the poisonous nature of black-cherry water has long been known, it is still em- ployed in cookery and confectionary to a dangerous extent.