Hints for the Table. 34 resistance. A huge dish oi' snails was placed before them: still, pliiloso- phers are but men after all; and the stomachs of both doctors began to revolt against the experiment. Nevertheless, if they looked with disgust on the snails, they retained their awe for each other, so that each, conceiv- ing the symptoms of internal revolt peculiar to himself, began, with infi- nite exertion, to swallow, in very small quantities, the mess which he internally loathed. Dr. Black at length showed the white feather, but in a very delicate manner, as if to sound the opinion of his messmate. “ Doctor,” he said, in his precise and quiet manner—“Doctor, do you think that they taste a little—a very little, green P” “ D d green ! d d green, indeed! Tak’ them awa’—tak’ them awa’!” vociferated Dr. Hutton, starting up from table, and giving full vent to his feelings of abhorrence. So ended all hopes of introducing snails into the modern cuisine; and thus philosophy can no more cure a nausea, than honour can set a broken Fish. Fish of different kinds varies in digestibility. The most digestible is whiting, boiled; haddock next; cod, soles, and turbot are richer and heavier; eels, when stewed, notwithstanding their richness, are digestible. Perch is, perhaps, the most digestible river-fish; salmon is not very digestible, unless in a fresher state than that in which much of it reaches the London market.— Mayo. That we are large consumers of fish may be inferred from the fact that the annual supply of this article to the London market alone exceeds 402,964,000 lbs. of fish proper, i. e., in its raw state. To this we may add some 47,816,000 lbs. of dried and smoked fish; making a grand total of 450,780,000 lbs. and upwards, and this, be it remembered, exclusive of shell fish. The consumption of fish in the metropolis has been considerably increased by the vigilance of the inspectors at Billingsgate: it formerly happened that a family who had once or twice purchased bad fish, gave up the use of an article which there was some un- certainty of procuring in a proper state. The high price of fish is not, as generally supposed, from any monopoly in the sale of it; but is, in a great measure, owing to the system of credit which the retail dealer is compelled to give; the frequent losses he sustains, and to the practice of the patronage of noblemen and gentlemen being disposed of by their servants in consideration of a heavy per-centage. A full season and scarce supply occasionally raise the price enormously; as in the case of four guineas being paid for a lobster for sauce, which, being the only one in the market, wa3 divided for two London epicures! During very rough weather,