148 Hints for the Table. The custom of taking coffee after a late dinner, and just before going to rest, is bad: because its stimulant properties upon the nerves of the stomach exert a power destructive to sleep—it pro- motes an activity of mind, and gives a range to the imagina- tion which prevents self-forgetfulness, that sure harbinger of repose. Yet, Voltaire, Fontenelle, and Fourcroy, who were great coffee- drinkers, lived to a good old age. Laugh at Madame Sevigne. who foretold that coffee and Racine would be forgotten together! For breakfast, coffee is considered better than tea. The sto- mach, needing a nourishing beverage in the morning, finds it in coffee only; needing none after dinner, it obtains a mere stimu- lant in tea. Tea-Making. The physiological effects of Tea are well known. It exhilarates without sensibly intoxicating. It excites the brain to increased activity, and produces wakefulness. It soothes, on the contrary, and stills the vascular system, and hence its use in inflammatory diseases, and as a cure for headache. The exciting effect of green tea upon the nerves makes it useful in counteracting the effects of opium and of fermented liquors. The Chinese themselves, and the Oriental nations generally, hardly consume anything but black tea. The English consume in the proportion of one part of green to four of black. The Americans two parts of green to one of black. The English in Bengal, and in the Australian settlements, scarcely consume any- thing but green. The English at Bombay and Madras hardly use anything but black; and the English and other residents settled at Canton, black. In Holland, much more black than green tea is used; aud in Russia nearly the whole consumption is green. Tea, in general, does more harm from the quantity of unne- cessary liquid which it introduces into the stomach, than by its specific qualities. Unnecessary liquid weakens the stomach, and turns to wind.—Mayo. The danger of drinking strong green tea is not so seriously apprehended as it should be. Prussic acid has been obtained from the leaves in so concentrated a state, that one drop killed a dog almost instantaneously. A strong infusion of Souchong lea, sweetened with sugar, is as effectual in poisoning flies, as the solution of arsenic generally used for that purpose. To make tea, the tea-pot should not be scalded, which causes the escape of some aroma: if you make it for yourself, let the