Hints for the Table. 154 scnted with a soup-plate holding eleven small, dry sweet cakes, each as big as a Genevese watch-glass. The wine was scarcely drinkable, except- ing, I presume, one bott le of Burgundy, which the generous master of the house kept faithfully to himself, not offering even the ladv by his side, n stranger, and his own invited guest, a single glass.” The etiquette of a Russian dinner is very formal. When the guests are seated, the master and mistress of the feast remain standing, it being their business to attend upon the company, and to see that the servants do their duty. Nothing can escape their observation: your plate does not remain a moment empty, nor your glass a moment either empty or full. French wines are mostly drunk ; Madeira is also a favourite; and a bottle of port is set down expressly for the Englishman. At her own time, the mistress gives the signal, and all rise from the table. Turkish cookery is much praised by Soyer. When at Con- stantinople he described its regime as containing— Many dishes which are indeed worthy of the tabic of the greatest epicure. He will not consider his Oriental mission terminated to his satisfac- tion till he secs in the bills of fare of France and England “ their puree de volaillc au res tomates et coucombres and puree de Bulimia aromastiee a la creme by the side of our potages a la Bcinc, Portue, Jullienne, and mulligatawney; near our whitebait, red mullets, turbots, and salmon, their fried sardines, bar fish, gurnards, sturgeon, red mullets aux herbes. oyster pilafF, mackerel, salad, &c.; and with our roast beef, saddleback of mutton, and haunch of venison, their sheep, lamb, or kid, roasted whole, and the monster and delicious kebab; by our entries of supreme de volaille, salmis, and vol-aux-vents, their doulmas koifteo, sis kabobs, haharram boutou, pilaff, aux cailles, &c.; with our vegetables, their Bahmia fried leeks and celery, Patligau bastici, and sakath kabac bastici: with our macedoines, jellies, charlottes, &c., their lokounda, moukahalibi, Baclava gynoristi, okmekataive. Their cofTec, iced milk, and sherbet— in fact, all their principal dishes—might with the best advantage be adopted and Frenchified and Anglicised; not so their method of serving, in which they mix sweet and savoury dishes throughout the repast,.” M. Soyer goes on to say that he had dined with the general-in-chief of the culinary department of the Sultan, and that for four guests above seventy small dishes formed the bill of fare. This repast was the fac- simile of the dinner daily served up to the Sultan, who always takes his meals alone. A Persian banquet is a strange repast. The guests are first served with coffee in very small cups, and without cream or sugar : then tea, in large cups, and at last dinner. The table-cloth, or sofra, of flowered cotton, is spread upon the carpet; and this cloth is used so long unchanged, that the accumulated fragments of former meals collect into a musty paste, emitting no very savouiy smell; but the Persians are content, for they say that changing the sofra brings ill luck. A piece of their bread or cake is then set for each guest, to be used as a plate and napkin. Then a tray is placed between each two persons, containing two