112 Hints for the Table. If newly-bottled wine be exposed to the sun, it will begin shortly to deposit, and improve in flavour; and even the rawest wine of this kind, by placing the bottle in water, and boiling it, may be made, in the course of a day, to assume the quality which it would have had after many years keeping. In the United States, Madeira is commonly boiled, and the same treatment is applied to port. In Spain, brown sherry undergoes the same process. Bitter almonds, it was thought by the Romans, checked intoxi- cation ; and there is somewhere an anecdote about the physician of the Emperor Tiberius, who, if he had eaten his usual quantity of this fruit, would drink three bottles of strong wine, but otherwise easily succumbed. The practice of eating cheese to bring out the flavour of wine was a Roman custom; and there is evidence of plates of cheese being provided for the tasters at sales of wine in old Rome, just as is done in England at the present day. The pipe of wine measure varies according to the description of wine. The pipe of port contains 130 gallons, of sherry 130, of Lisbon and Bucellas 140, of Madeira 110, and of Yidonia 120. The pipe of port, it should be observed, is seldom accurately 130 gallons, and it is not unusual to charge what the vessel actually contains. As the first-rate growths of wines are confined to a small num- ber of vineyards, and these often of very limited extent, the supply of such wines can never equal the demand. Every one who can afford the luxury, is naturally desirous to stock his cellar with those of the choicest quality; he orders no others; and the manufacturer and wine-dealer are thus induced to send into the market a quantity of second-rate and ordinary kinds, under the names of the fine wines, which they are unable to furnish. In this way, great confusion and misunderstanding have arisen in those countries where they are but little known, with respect to the true characters of many wines of the greatest name.—Dr. Henderson's History of Wines. Wines should vary with the seasons: light wines are best in summer; in winter, generous wines are preferred. White wine is drunk with white meats, and red with brown meats. Light wines are suitable to light dishes, and stronger wines to more substantial dishes. In summer, wine and water, cooled by a piece of ice being put into it, is a luxury. Light dry wines, such as hock, claret, Burgundy, Rhenish, and Hermitage, are, generally speaking, more salubrious than the stronger varieties, as port, sherry, or Madeira. Claret, in par- ticular, is the most wholesome wine known: champagne, except