31 Soups: Turtle. The French have a soup which they call “ Potage a la Camerain," of which it is said, “ a single spoonful will lap the patient in Elysium, and while one drop remains on the tongue, each other sense is eclipsed by the voluptuous thrilling of the lingual nerves.” Giblet soup, according to Dr. Hunter, is as full of gout as the richest turtle. As turtle is the regina voluplatis, this dish may he said to be one of her maids of honour. Marigold-flowers, dried and rubbed to powder, improve broths and soups, however much this addition has fallen into disuse. Asparagus tops should be put into soup at the moment of sending it up. Carrageen or Irish Moss is an excellent thickener of soups and broths; and it is a very economical substitute for isinglass in orange, lemon, or savory jellies, and blane-mange. Grouse soup is made at Hamilton on the principle of a young grouse to each of the party, in addition to six or seven brace stewed down beforehand for stock. TURTLE. Ude asserts, that the receipt for turtle-soup, in his French Coclc, is the best, if not the only practical one in print, upon which he has bestowed his utmost care and attention. When in manu- script, he obtained a very high price for it. In dressing a turtle, be cautious not to study a very brown colour; the natural green being preferred by every epicure and true connoisseur. To keep turtle-soup three weeks or a month, cover it about an inch thick with lard with which a little oil has been mixed; it being poured on when it will only just flow. If you warm turtle-soup in a bain-marie, it will retain its flavour; but, if you warm it often, it will become strong, and lose its delicacy of flavour. The usual allowance at what is called a Turtle-Dinner, is 61b. live weight per head. At the Spanish-Dinner, at the City of London Tavern, in 1808, four hundred guests attended, and 2500 lb. of turtle were consumed. For the Banquet at Guildhall, on Lord Mayor’s Day, Novem- ber 9th, 250 tureens of turtle are provided. Dr. Kitchiner observes, that turtles often become emaciated and sickly before they reach this country, in which case the soup would be incomparably improved by leaving out the turtle, and substituting a good calf’s head. In turtlea’ eggs, the yolk soon becomes hard on boiling, whilst