83 Fielding.—Mustard. view, pepper proves an excellent tonic, and is calculated to create appetite, and to promote digestion. PICKLES. A great deal of attention has been paid to the examination of pickles sold hy oilmen; and in all the sixteen specimens examined by Dr. Hassall, he found copper in various amounts; wherefore, the only safety for the public is that all housekeepers should take the matter into their own hands, and become themselves the makers of their pickles. Of the poisonous pickles the green, as gherkins and beans, contain the largest amount of copper, which is thought to be necessary to insure the fine green colour; hut this may he as well obtained by the use of pure vinegar and a proper quantity of salt; and every oilman who understands his business can produce green pickles without the aid of copper. We cannot be surprised at the frequency of poisoning by eating pickles, when we find the writers of cookery-books ordering the vinegar for gherkins to be boiled in a hell-metal or copper pot, and poured hot on the cucumbers. Again, greening is recom- mended : it is made of verdigris, distilled vinegar, alum powder, and bay-salt; and Haffald, in her cookery-book, directs: “ to render pickles green, boil them with halfpence, or allow them to stand twenty-four hours in copper or brass pans.” To detect suspected vinegar, put three or four drops on the blade of a knife; add one drop of sulphuric acid, and heat the under surface of the knife over a candle-flame, when the vinegar will evaporate, and deposit the copper on the knife-blade, if any he present. Mangoes are pickled when unripe, and brought from the East Indies. They are imitated by pickling small unripe melons, which are then called melon-mangoes. Old pickles are rarely crisp, hut they are of much finer flavour than new ones; though not so esteemed. In cheap pickles, the vegetables are scarcely half saturated with the vinegar, which is of the worst kind, being adulterated with sulphuric acid, as may he detected by the sulphurous odour of such pickles. Epicures sometimes mix mustard with sherry or raisin wine. The French mix it with tarragon, shalot, and other flavoured vinegars, and pepper. It may amuse the reader to relate a spe- cimen of the pompous and even Royal style assumed hy the Duke of Northumberland in his well-known household book for 1512. He does not give an order for the making of mustard, of which it is stated that the annual allowance was 160 gallons, hut it is introduced with the following formal preamble: “ It seemeth good to us and our Council,” &c.