Hints jor the Talle. 70 settlers at Hudson’s Bay, excellent eating, and, when roasted, equal in flavour to jroung beef; and the cygnets are considered a great delicacy. The eggs are so large, that one of them is enough for a moderate man, without bread, or any other addition. The flesh of cygnets was once highly esteemed; and is still, or was lately, served at the dinners of the corporation of Norwich, who are bound by some tenure annually to present the Duke of Norfolk with a large cygnet pie. We find several entries of swans among the delicacies of the City Companies’ feasts. In a dinner of the Brewers’ Company, as early as the reign of Henry V., 1419, six swans are charged at 2s. 6d. each; and a swan appears to have been a customary fine in the Company. THE CANY ASS-BACK DUCK. The canvass-back duck, in the rich, juicy tenderness -of its flesh, and its delicacy of flavour, stands unrivalled by the whole of its tribe in America, or any other quarter of the world. At American public dinners, hotels, and private entertainments, the canvass-backs are universal favourites. They not only grace, but dignify the table, and their very name conveys to the imagination of the eager epicure the most comfortable and exhilarating ideas. Hence, on such occasions, it has not been uncommon to pay from one to three dollars a pair for these ducks; indeed, at such times, if they can they must be had, whatever be the price.—(Wilson and Bonaparte’s American Ornithology.)—Swainson refers to the canvass-back duck as the ortolan of the duck family, and the turtle of the swimming birds. Charles Mackay, in his Transatlantic Sketches, in the Illus- trated London Hews, says: “ Baltimore is celebrated for the can- vass-back duck, one of the greatest delicacies of the table in the New World. The canvass-back feeds and breeds in countless myriads on the waters of Chesapeake Bajr. Among the wild celery which grows on the shores of the shallow waters the can- vass-back finds the peculiar food which gives its flesh the flavour so highly esteemed. Baltimore being the nearest large city to the Chesapeake, the traveller may be always certain, during the season, of finding abundant and cheap supplies. Norfolk in Vir- ginia, at the entrance of Chesapeake Bay, is, however, the chief emporium of the trade, which is carried on largely with all the cities of the Union, and even to Europe, whither the birds are sent packed in ice, but where they do not usually arrive in such condition as to give the epicure a true idea of their excellence and delicacy. If steam shall ever shorten the passage across the Atlantic to one week, Europe will, doubtless, be as good a cus- tomer for the canvass-back duck as America itself.”