Hints for the Table. 16 roasting, under some of the leading roasters of the day. This is a valuable hint for some of the “ professed cooks” of our country. Daubing consists in passing bacon through meat; while lard- ing is only on the top and sides, or surface only. Braising is now common in large kitchens: it enriches meats, game, and poultry, which may be kept ten days or a fortnight in the braise. Braising is well managed in France by burying the braising kettle in live wood-ashes. A fricandeau is best pre- pared by putting red-hot embers upon the cover of, as well as beneath, the stewpan. A Bain-marie, or Water-bath, and a Hot-plate, are very useful to cooks for keeping articles warm without altering the quantity or quality. If you keep sauce, broth, or soup by the fire-side, the soup reduces and becomes too strong, and the sauce thickens as well as reduces. Broiling and frying are nicer arts than commonly thought. For all articles the gridiron should be allowed to get bot, and be rubbed with fat, or chalked for fish, lest the bars mark the article broiled. Crumbs for frying are best prepared by drying bread before the fire, then pounding it in a mortar, and sifting it. Charcoal makes the best broiling and frying fire. The saute-pan is very useful to fry meat lightly before stewing it. Entrees are those dishes which are served in the first course with the fish. Entremets are the second course which comes, between the roast meat and the dessert. Entrees and Entremets should never be attempted without means and appliances to boot; for “ better first in a village than second at Rome,” is a maxim peculiarly applicable to cookery. The danger from copper cooking vessels is threefold: 1. From their being untinned, and the articles prepared in them affecting the copper. 2. From their contracting the poisonous rust, ver- digris, when put away damp. 3. From soups and stews being left to cool in them. The instance of a party of gentlemen being poisoned at Salt Hill, from neglect of the latter kind, is well known. In 1829, a gentleman was poisoned in Paris by par- taking of soup which had been warmed in a foul copper sauce- pan. And, in 1837, the daughter of the Countess of L. and all her family, residing in Paris, were poisoned by a stew, which had been allowed to stand and get cold in a copper pan. In our system of cookery, the paucity of standards of taste is a great disadvantage. In France, a dish once tasted is always known again: but in England, such is not the case, for a ragout, fricassee, or curry, will vary in flavour at different tables. This