122 Hints for the Table. (IngUs’s Spain.) In short, it is entirely by the aroma and by the taste, not at all by the colour, that sherries are to be judged. The wide differences in colour depend entirely upon the pro- portion of boiled wine; while those slighter shades, perceptible among the pale and light golden wines, are owing to some small difference in the ripeness of the fruit; or, to factitious decolor- ization by our wine-merchants. The finest and driest sherry is called Amontillado. It is very rare: out of forty butts collected from the same vineyard, not above two or three having this quality. Sherry is only taken as a win de liqueur in France, and not with dinner as in England. MADEIRA. Madeira, as a stimulant, equals port, and, when in fine con- dition, may truly be called a generous wine: unfortunately, it is rarely to be procured; and as it is generally more acid, than either port or sherry, it is, consequently, not so well adapted to stomachs inclined to dyspeptic acidity. Wine-drinkers in England are very commonly deceived into the idea that a voyage to the East or West Indies is sufficient to ensure the excellence of Madeira wine: but this is an obvious fallacy, for if the wine were not of a good quality when shipped from the island, a thousand voyages could not make it what it never had been. It is well known to every merchant in Madeira, that a great proportion of the wines so shipped are of an inferior quality, and are purchased in barter by persons who are com- monly known by the name of truckers.—Holman's Voyage. So destructive has been the vine disease in Madeira, of late years, that the production of its beautiful wine can no further be hoped for. The bidding for the famous pipe of Madeira, at the sale of the effects of the late Duchess de Rag-use, in 1858, caused a great commotion in Paris. This famous wine, known to all as the “ 1814 pipe,” was fished up near Antwerp in 1814, where it had lain in the carcass of a ship wrecked at the mouth of the Scheld in 1778, and which had lain there ever since. As soon as the valuable discovery was made known, Louis XVIII. despatched an agent to secure the precious relic. A share of the glorious beverage was presented to the French Consul, who had assisted at its discover}', and thus it came iuto the cellars of the Duke de Ragusc. Only four and forty bottles were remaining, and these wore literally sold for their weight in gold to Rothschild, who was opposed by Voron and Milland. Veron was angry, because he declared that he had made the reputation of the wine, by mentioning it in his Memoirs, on the occasion of the dinner given to Taglioni by the Duchess de Raguse, whereat the famous “1814 was produced as the greatest honour to bo paid to the great artist.—Court Journal. When the celebrated Malmsey, made in Crete, is stored in the