35 Freshness of Fish. scarcely an oyster cau be procured in the metropolis. In the height of the season, a line cod-fish has been sold for a guinea ancf a half. And some moyen-age readers may recollect a piquant story of Lady Eldon (the Chancellor’s parsimonious wife), con- senting to sell half a turbot which she had ordered, when told of its extravagantly high price. Salmon at Billingsgate is now often sold at the rate of butcher’s meat; and, owing to the rapidity of its conveyance by steam, is in much better condition than when higher prices were demanded for it. No general rule of certainty can be laid down for determining the freshness of Fish, and its fitness for food, as has been com- monly supposed, unless we are acquainted with the habits of the several species. Mr. Yarrell, the distinguished naturalist, ob- serves : “ It may be considered as a law that those fish that swim near the surface of the water, have a high standard of respira- tion, a low degree of muscular irritability, and great necessity for oxygen, die soon—almost immediately when taken out of the water, and have flesh prone to rapid decomposition. On the con- trary, those fish that live near the bottom of the water have a low standard of respiration, a high degree of muscular irrita- bility, and less necessity for oxygen; they sustain life long after they are taken out of the water, and their flesh remains good several days. The carp, the tench, the various flat fish, and the eel, are seen gaping and writhing on the stalls of the fishmongers for hours in succession; but no one sees any symptoms of motion in the mackerel, the salmon, the trout, or the herring, unless present at the capture. These four last-named, and many others of the same habits, to be eaten in the greatest perfection, should be prepared for the table the same day they are caught ;* but the turbot, delicate as it is, may be kept till the second day with advantage, and even longer without injury; and fishmongers, generally, are well aware of the circumstance, that fish from deep water have the muscle more dense in structure—in their language, more firm to the touch—that they are of finer flavour, and will keep longer than fish drawn from shallow water.— Yarrell’s History of British Fishes. * The chub swims near the top of the water, and is caught with a fly, a moth, or a grasshopper, upon the surfaco; and Isaac Walton says, “ But take this rule with you—that a chub newly taken and newly dressed is so much better than a chub of a day’s keeping after he is dead, that I can compare him to nothing so fitly as to cherries newly gathered from a tree, and others that have been bruised and lain a day or two in water.” D 2