52 Hints for the Table. ilesh is eaten fresh, suited, or preserved with aromatics; and even the cord which pervades the spine, constitutes a Russian delicacy named veirga. Caviare is consumed in vast quantities all over the Russian empire; it is also sent to Italy; Germany and France take con- siderable quantities, and England a little. Caviare is a shining brown substance, in small grains, exactly like brambleberries nearly ripe. It is obtained from sturgeon, which are taken in March, in millions, on their spawning beds in the mouth of the Danube, the Dnieper, the Don, or the Volga, where both nets and hooks are employed against the fish. The membrane of the roe being removed, the grains are washed with vinegar, or the cheap white wines of the country; next dried in the air, salted, put into a bag and pressed, and then packed in casks. After all, says a tourist, Caviare is not worth the money: it is a bitter, cucumber- tasted stuff; is eaten raw with oil and lemon-juice, and tastes worse than Hamburgh herrings or Swedish salmon. It is, how- ever, one of the most valuable articles of Russian trade, the sales reaching annually two millions sterling. An inferior caviare is made from the roes of other large fish. Caviare is increasing in estimation in this country, if we may judge by the increased importation of it. Caviare was an old English luxury; lor Charles II., when he laid the foundation-stone of the Royal Exchange, was regaled “ with a chine of beef, fowls, hams, dried tongues, anchovies, caviare, and wines.” MISCELLANEOUS. The Plaice, when in good order, is a most delicious fish, though of no great reputation. To get rid of its watery softness, it should be well beaten with a rolling-pin, before it is dressed. Slcate should be soaked in salt and water, to extract the rankness which it has when dressed too fresh, but which vanishes if the fish be kept a day or two. Skate is absurdly rejected by some persons. If this fish be hung up for a day or two, then cut into slices, broiled, and eaten with butter, it will be delicious. The female skate is more delicate than the male. The Basse is highly extolled by Pliny and Ovid, but rarely appears at the table of wealthy moderns. Yet, a Cornishman will eat a basse boiled, baked, fried, stewed, or made into a pie. The wholesomest sea-fish are the common, speckled, and green cod; haddock, pout, whiting, pollack, whiting pollack, hake, forked hake, and ling : the flesh of all these is white and divides into flakes, and is excellent for invalids. The Hake, though rarely admitted to the table of the wealthy,