Hints for the Table. 90 MUSHROOMS.—TRUFFLES. The value ol Mushrooms as food has been underrated.* “ They are second only,” says Cuthill, “ to beef and mutton. The price of mushrooms during winter is very high, and until people grow them more plentifully, they will be high priced. So, also, are sea- kale and asparagus. Yet these three vegetables are all natives of Britain. The great mistake in cooking mushrooms has been, want of attention to their condition; they should be perfectly fresh, and every hour they are kept tends to make them unwhole- some. The only simple test where doubts exist about the true edible mushrooms, is putting salt over the gills, which, if the mushrooms be genuine, will turn black in a short time, being exactly the colour of an old overgrown one. On poisonous fungi salt has no effect. No person need have the least doubt about mush- rooms grown by themselves, and from pure horse manure, and pure spawn; of course no one would think of mixing horse- chestnut leaves, or old decayed wood, with their bed. Poisonous mushrooms are only picked up by the town hawkers, who hunt the fields, in which, from ignorance or carelessness, he is as likely to gather toad-stools a mushrooms.—J. Cuthill, Gardener, Cambenvell. Still, the large horse-mushroom, except for ketchup, should be very cautiously eaten. In wet seasons, or if produced on wet ground, it is very deleterious, if used in any great quantity. “There is no reason,” says a writer in the Athenceum, “for our eating one or two of the numberless edible funguses—mushrooms, truffles, &c.— which our island produces, and condemning all the rest as worse than use- less, under the name of ‘ toad-stools.’ It is not so on the continent of Europe, where very generally the various species of fungi are esteemed agreeable and important articles of diet. The great drawback on the use of these esculents in this country is, that some are poisonous, and few persons possess the skill to distinguish them—with the exception of one or two species—from those which arc edible. In the markets at Home there is an ‘ inspector of funguses’ versed in botany, and whose duty it is to examine and report on all such plants exposed for sale. The safety with winch these vegetables may be eaten has led to a very large consumption in that city, where not less than 140,000 lbs., worth 4000?. sterling, are annually made use of. This in a population of 156,000! We cannot estimate the value of funguses in our own country for an article of diet as less than in Italy, nor believe that the supply would be in a less ratio. If this be correct, the value of the funguses which are allowed to spring up and die, wasted in Great Britain, would be about half a million sterling in each year. Truffles were known as a delicacy by the ancients, and were * Nevertheless, the subject has received considerable attention in this country, as may be seen in Dr. Badham’s learned work On the Edible Funguses of England.