Oranges.—Olives. 109 at full growth, will annually, upon an average, produce from 12,000 to 16,000 oranges; indeed, 26,000 have been gathered. In its native country, a single orange, when cut, will fill a deep dessert plate with its juice. There is a species of epicurism peculiar to the Azores, with respect to oranges, particularly observed by the higher classes, who only eat that side which has been exposed to the sun, and is, of course, in its fresh state, easily distinguishable by the tint —a refinement we are unable to imitate, the colour being rendered uniform by age. The clove, or mandarin, with a loose skin, is the most delicate orange. Oranges in Jamaica, for richness of flavour and for sweetness, eannot be surpassed. Indeed, a bitter or sour orange is rarely to be met with there. Oranges grown in England should be gathered just as the fruit begins to colour; they should then be kept in a warm room for about a fortnight before they are sent to table, by which means the peel will be very soft, and the juice more delicious. The shaddock is a handsome, though not a delicious, addition to our dessert; the flavour of its juice being a sweetish acid, in- termediate between that of the orange and the lemon, with rather a bitter taste. From Italy is brought a sweet lemon, with the colour and shape of an orange, except that at the stalk end is a depression, and on this a prominence, as in the lemon; but within it has the pale pulp of the lemon, and sweet juice. At Naples, in the month of March, may be bought several varieties of grapes, kept through the winter, not much shrivelled, and free from mouldiness. Oranges are so cheap, as to allow the poorest of the poor to enjoy (what Dr. Johnson complained he never had of peaches but once) their fill of them, and that daily; the best being sold at the rate of ten for an English penny. OLIVES. Olives are a green, unripe kind of plum, deprived of part of their bitterness by soaking them in water, and then preserving them in an aromatised solution of salt. The most common varieties are the small French and the large Spanish Olive. Olives a, la picholine (i.c. of the smallest kind,) have been soaked in a solution of lime or alkali. There is etiquette in eating olives. Cardinal Eichelieu is said to have detected an adventurer, who was passing himself off as a nobleman, by his helping himself to olives with a fork; it being comme ilfaut to use the fingers for that purpose.