Hints fur the Table. 98 bran, which is known to possess a resinous purgative substance • hut the efficacy of its aperient quality is generally counteracted by the bread being made too fine. In Savoy, bread is baked in thin stick-like pieces, about four feet in length, so as to be literally the staff of life. In France, bread is often baked in large rings, for the convenience of carry- ing on the arm. Salt in bread is very important. Lord Somerville relates that the ancient laws of Holland sentenced men to be kept on bread alone, unmixed with salt, as the severest punishment in a moist climate; and the effect was horrible. The French bakers do not put so much salt into their bread as the English bakers do: in fact, French bread is insipid to an English palate, whilst the Frenchman shrinks from the quantity of salt commonly used by our bakers. The beau-ideal of Anglo-Indian bread is, that it should be excessively white, utterly tasteless, and as light as a powder-puff; when toasted, and eaten dry with tea, it is tolerably good; but Bishop Heber says, he would as soon bestow butter on an empty honey-comb, which it marvellously resembles in dryness, brittle- ness, and apparent absence of all nourishing qualities. It is lamentable to see fine wheat so perversely turned into mere hair- powder. Soda-bread, or bread made with soda instead of yeast, is much eaten in the United States of America. Apple-bread, that is, bread made with the addition of the pulp of apples, is much eaten in France. Biscuit is digestible from its crispness and shortness, being readily separable and broken into minute fragments. A biscuit eaten about the middle of the day will preserve the tone of the stomach, which is debilitated by long fasting: it is, therefore, a good luncheon. The public are greatly in error in supposing the Abernethy biscuit, sold by most bakers, to have been the fa- vourite breakfast of the celebrated surgeon of that name; for this biscuit was named after Abernethy, the Scotch baker who first made it. Macaroni may be termed the Italian’s staff of life: in Italy, it is the principal food of the lower orders; but in England it is only found upon the tables of the rich, owing to the enormous price at which it is sold; and which price is justified on the plea that it cannot be so well manufactured here. The Italian pro- cess is, however, so simple, that with the finest wheat, which, if not grown in England, may always be obtained here, as good macaroni might be made here as in Italy: at least, such is the opinion of those who have witnessed the manufacture of macaroni in Italy.