tleavour to preserve your composure, and do not add to the dis- comfort you have created by making an unnecessary fuss about it. An accomplished gentleman, when carving a tough goose, had the misfortune to send it entirely out of the dish, and into the lap of the lady next to him; on which he very coolly looked her full in the face, and with admirable gravity and calmness, said,—“ Madam, I will thank you for that goose.” In a case like this, a person must necessarily suffer so much, and be suet an object of compassion to the company, that the kindest thing he could do was to appear as unmoved as possible. The manner of bearing such a mortifying accident gained him more credit than he lost by his awkward carving.—The Young Lady's Friend. Soups, Broths and soups are difficult of digestion, if made a meal of; but have not this effect if eaten in a small quantity. They may be rendered more easily digestible if thickened with any fari- naceous substance; bread eaten with every mouthful of soup answers as well.—Mayo. On a good first broth, and good sauce, you must depend for good cookery. The smallest drop of fat or grease is insufferable, and characterizes bad cookery, and a cook without method. The French chemists have ascertained that soup may be made more delicate by soaking the meat first at a low temperature, and setting aside the weak stock, to which should subsequently be added the strong broth obtained by adding fresh water to the meat, and continuing the boiling. The great fault of English soups most in favour, is their strength or weight, from the quantity of meat in their composi- tion. Soup, it should be recollected, is not especially intended as a point in a repast; wherefore, it has been shrewdly observed, that to begin dinner by stuffing one’s self with ox tail or mock turtle when two or three dishes are to follow, argues a thorough coarseness of conception, and implies, moreover, the digestive powers of an ostrich. The general fault of English tavern soups is an excess of spices, ketchup, and salt, to mask their poorness. Liebig tells how the best beef tea or brown gravy should be made. “ When one pound of lean beef, free from fat, and sepa- rated from the bones, in the finely-chopped state in which it is used for beef sausages, or mincemeat, is uniformly mixed with its own weight of cold water, then slowly heated to boiling, and the liquid after boiling briskly for a minute or two is strained