Hints for the Table. 32 the white remains liquid; a result in direct opposition to the changes in boiling the eggs of birds. The fins of the turtle make a luxurious side dish. The fins of the turbot are likewise much esteemed. Turtle may be enjoyed in steaks, cutlets, or fins; and—as soup, clear and purSe—at the Albion, London, and Freemasons’, and other large taverns. “ The Ship and Turtle Tavern,” Nos. 129 and 130, Leadenhall-street, is especially famous for its turtle; and from this establishment several of the West-end club-houses are supplied. Of course, Turtle, like everything else in this lower world, has its degrees of excellence; but the amphibious delicacy is rarely to be obtained in puris naturalibus, in this country: that is, the soup is excellent, but it is not turtle, per se. I admit it (says a writer iu the New Monthly Magazine), to be a rich and savoury compound, in which some savoury morceaux of its godfather may occasionally be found floating; but the suscitating juices with which the accidental luxury is presented to us, are extracted from the hinder- legs of a calf and an ox; the foundation, in fact, is composed of veal and beef, and a masterly introduction of appetizing condiments, which are both palatable and pleasing; but, believe me, it is no more like the turtle soup of the Western hemisphere, than pea-soup, made from that delicate vegetable in the spring, is to a nankeen-coloured mess concocted in the winter, bearing the same name. The truth is, the turtle is too expensive a delicacy to warrant such a lavish expenditure of its succulent nourish- ment, and the luscious treasure is husbanded accordingly. In the West Indies, e’estune autre affaire: the turtle are too plentiful to require the meretricious aid of stock and gravy. There, the whole is consumed for soup, excepting the calhpeo; and I need scarcely add, it is exquisitely delicious. A turtle of eighty to one hundred pounds, is con- sidered, by all right-judging epicures, to be the proper size and growth for perfect eating; and will furnish a satisfactory repast for some ten or a dozen lovers of this delicacy; although I have known three turtles to be slain for a regular turtle-feast in one of the Caribbean Islands; viz., a chicken turtle for steaks, than which a juvenile fowl is not more delicate; one of a hundred for soup and stewed fins; and a large hen turtle for eggs, and callipash, or stew, and from which also the never-to-be-suffi- ciently-lauded green fat is pilfered, to fill up any deficiency in the supply for the tureen. Gentle reader, if you have any accidental acquaintances, cultivate them, by all means, to the utmost extent in your power; they are kind, open-hearted, and liberal to a fault; and if, perchance, they send you a turtle of the true breed, take my advice, do not think of dress- ing it at your own house (for which you will insure the gratitude of your cook), but send it to the Albion, the London Tavern, or Birch; and in return, they will, any one of them, send you sufficient soup for three or four parties. Give them the turtle, and whenever you wish to entertain a select few of the lovers of good eating, you can command a liberal supply of matchless soup, without tho trouble or expense that would have attended the abortive attempts of your own servant for one entertainment.