55 Lobsters.—Prawns. with condiments and without condiments; oysters for breakfast, dinner, and supper; oysters without stint or limit—fresh as the fresh air, and almost as abundant—are daily offered to the pnlntes of the Manhattanese, and appreciated with all the gratitude which such a bounty of nature ought to inspire. The epicures of Cape Town journey 300 miles, to Mossel Bay, to enjoy a feast of the delicious oysters found there. A humorous writer in the North British Review remarks:— It has been often said that he must hare been a bold man who first ate an oyster. This is said in ignoranco of the legend which assigns the first act of oyster-eating to a very natural cause. It is related that a man walking one day picked up one of theso savoury bivalves, just as it was in the act of gaping. Observing the extreme smoothness ot tho interior of the shell, he insinuated his linger bet ween them that he might feel their shining surface, when suddenly they closed upon the exploring digit, with a sensation loss pleasurable than he anticipated. The prompt withdrawal of his finger was scarcely a more natural movement than its transfer to his mouth. It is not very clear why people when they hurt their fingers put them into then- mouth; but it is very certain that they do; and in this case the result was most fortunate. The owner of the finger tasted oyster juice for the first time, as tho Chinaman in Elia’s essay having burnt his finger first tasted crackling. The savour was delicious ; ho had made a great discovery; so lie picked up the oysters, forced open the shells, ban- queted upon their contents, and soon brought oyster-eating into fashion. And unlike most fashions, it has never gone and is never likely to go out. LOBSTEES AND CEABS.—PEAWNS AND SHBIMPS. Lobsters and Crabs should not be chosen by their size: for a thin crab will appear as large as a fat one, from the stomach being formed on a kind of skeleton, and, therefore, not falling in when empty. The heaviest are the best, and those of middling size are sweetest. The speculation in Lobsters is very great. Thus, suppose 2000 lobsters to be received in London on a Monday in May, and they would probably sell for 80£.; whereas, if 10,000 should be brought into the market on the following day, they would sell for only 160Z.! In 1816, one fish-salesman in London is known to have lost 1200Z. per week, for six weeks, by lobsters! To stew a Lobster in the Irish way, cut, break, and pick a boiled lobster, and put it into a stewpan with a mixture of mus- tard, vinegar, and cayenne pepper, and a good-sized piece of floured butter; cover it, and simmer five minutes, when throw in a glass of sherry or Madeira; boil up, and serve garnished with sliced lemon. In Ireland a lobster is thus cooked in a dis- patcher, over a spirit lamp, before the company. Mr. Michael Angelo Titmarsh, in his Irish Sketch-book, greatly extols this dish: “ porter is commonly drunk with it, and whisky punch afterwards.”