Hints for the Table. 80 fine, and warming them with a little pepper and salt, in vinegar and water. It is excellent with young roast turkey. Russian sauce (horse-radish, mustard, vinegar, &c.) was named from Dr. Hunter having seen it prepared by a Russian princess. Ham relish may he made by seasoning highly with cayenne pepper, a slice of dressed ham, then broiling it, and adding butter, mustard, and a little lemon-juice. Our bread sauce is capable of much improvement, of which the French cooks have taken advantage in their britsau.ee, “which, though, no doubt, imitated from the English composition, bears no greater resemblance than one of Sir Thomas Lawrence’s por- traits of an old woman to the original; all the harsher points being mellowed down, and an indescribable shading of seductive softness infused.”—Quarterly Review. Notwithstanding the taunt of the French, on melted butter being our national sauce, it is rarely well made—a fact which may have occasioued the late Earl of Dudley to observe, on a deceased Baron of the Exchequer: “ He was a good man, sir, an excellent man; he had the best melted butter I ever tasted in my life.” Although there is little mystery in the composition of oyster- sauce, like melted butter, it is rarely well made; it commonly resembles thick butter, with lukewarm oysters in it. The making of lobster sauce is not generally understood. It can only be made in perfection with three parts cream to one of butter, with cayenne, salt, and cavice or coratch; but the common error is not chopping the lobster small enough. When cut into large dice (as directed in most cookery-books), it is scarcely a sauce, for the result is too much like eating fish with fish. Essences of anchovies, lobsters, and shrimps are commonly adulterated with bole Armenian, which contains much red oxide of iron; flour is also used for thickening, and in some cases copper is found in these sauces. Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell prepare an anchovy-sauce without any colouring, which is of greatly improved quality and flavour. To ensure this, the refuse and dirt are removed from the fish, to do which is troublesome and expensive; but, by using bole Armenian or Venetian red, the dirt and refuse are concealed. Nine-tenths of the ketchup sold by grocer-oilmen is a vile compound of liver and the roe of fish, seasoned with pepper and other condiments. If you wish the article genuine, procure the mushrooms, and make it yourself. India Soy is difficult to purchase genuine: it should be made from an Indian plant called Dolichos soja, or soya; but treacle and salt are the basis of the soy ordinarily sold.