NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. 77 appeared florid and well; the patient was in good health and fpirits, and for more than three weeks, every appearance was as favourable as I could wilh. This was a longer time than I had ufually known patients to live after amputation in thefe cafes ; mold of thole 1 had feen, having expired within a fortnight. The flump was now nearly healed over, when, all on a fudden, a total languor came on, and a fphacelus of the flump, which carried off my patient in four-and-twenty hours after its flrft appearance. Muft thefe deplorable cafes then be left to themfelves r or are the very rare in fiances of fuccefs, which fome perfons lay they have feen in them, fufficient to juftify us in running the immenfe rifque we do in meddling with them ? It muff be owned, indeed, that thefe patients, if not relieved, will at length of themfelves become vicdims to the dileafe ; but, as we know not how long they might live under it with care and quiet, why fhould we venture to rifque haflening the death of twenty perfons, let us fuppofe, for the bare poffibility of laving one ? A dreadful alternative indeed ! but let us hope that fome method may here- after be found out, to render the affildance of art lefs precarious in thefe cales. It may not be improper to add, as a farther proof of this difeafe being a general one of the whole habit, that in recent, and, as they ufually are, fpurious aneurifms of the arteries in the extremities, from bb.eding or other external injury, the operation of tying up the artery as praflifed in thefe cafes, is i.tfelf fometimes fuccelsful ; and even when that fails, the fubfequent amputation of the limb, which then becomes neceffary, mold commonly faves the life of the patient ; but thefe are only local diforders, in which the reff of the arterial fyftem is not in the Jeald concerned *. * The improvements fuggeAed by Mr. Hunter in the treatment of aneurifms, were fubfe- quent to the annotator’s obfervations on the fubjetff, as here fet down. They afford proper matter for the reader’s confideration, fince the trials hitherto made, have,'happily, tended to contradidlthe opinion, that the difeafe is a general one of the habit, and therefore not curable by any operation. Some valuable communications on this fubjeft are tQ be found in the London Medical Journal; in the yth volume of which, is a description of Mr. Hunter's operation, and an account of its fuccefs. E. Such M