84 NOTES B V THE TRANSLATOR. re£l the embrocations made ufe of, to be employed very freely, and the fridtion exerted with them to be continued for a long time, and very fre- quently renewed. It feems to be as neceflary, in the pradlice of Sur- gery, to know for how long a time, and how frequently we fhould em- ploy the means we may propofe for the cure of any furgical complaints, under different circumHances, as it is in phylic, to afeertain the proper doles of medicine, and their repetition, for the relief of internal difor- ders, in various conflitutions. ’Tis much to be lamented, that both medicine and furgery are Hill very imperfect in this particular. (t6) In cafes of rigidity alfo, mod; commonly remaining in the ten- dinous parts, after violent contufions or fractures, I cannot too much re* commend the ufe of frictions, with oily, volatile, and laponaceous ap- plications, and a Heady perfeverance in the ufe of them. I have fre- quently feen fradtures and contufions about the wriH, which, after a long time, have left the flexor tendons of the fingers, in particular on the infide of the fore arm, in a Hate of conliderable dwelling, pain, and Hiffnefs, infomuch, that after all the bones were firmlv and evenly con- folidated, there has appeared as great a degree of deformity as if a luxa- tion or fradlure fubfifled Hill*. The embrocations before mentioned, are ulually * This deformity of the wrift does not feem to be properly underflood. It is much more frequently met with, among people advancing in years, (particularly women) after falls, than in the earlier part of life, and feems to me to arife from a rupture of the ligaments, which, in a natural Hate, preferve the fymmetry of this joint. Hence the radius drops inwards, while the carpal hones feem to he thrown outwards. Whoever has feen the true dillocation of this joint, which however is always to be reduced with the greatefl eafe, will readily diflinguilh the two cafes. From repeated experience I have found, that the heft me- thod to prevent this deformity is, after making a moderate extenfion, and bending the hand inwards, fo as to relax the palmaris mufcle, &c., to pafs a bandage, pretty tight, round the lower part of the arm and wrift, and then over the hack of the hand,- fo as to put the latter into a declining fiate; by this means the radius, which caufes the greatefl part of the deformity, is raifed to its proper place. If, afterwards, a fplint of feme flrength be applied on the back of the arm, and extended about two inches over the joint of the wriil, it will ferve as a fulcrum, by being inclofed in another roller, to keep the parts in a proper fitua- tion. It is frequently proper to incluJe a comprefs, in this latter bandage, on the projedting part