COUNTER-STROKES. 141 The principal fymptoms that charade rife thefe injuries, are an acute pain, and a fwellmg, more or lefs confiderable, with a difficulty of moving the part. If thefe original accidents be not relieved, an abfcefs, a caries, a complete or partial anchylofis, may fucceed; at lead I have feen indan- ces of fome of thefe terminations. The fymptoms that fird make their appearance, fufficiently indicate the kind of remedies to which we mud have recourfe ; repeated bleedings, refolutive topics, more or lefs fpiri- tuous; in certain cafes, emollients, and anodines in others ; retentive ban- dages calculated to prevent every motion of the part; are the only means to be employed in the fird indance. But when the primary fymptoms are relieved, balfamic embrocations may be tried, fuch as thole made with the balfamum tranquillum, the martiatum, and the oil of nutmegs animated with a little volatile fpirit of fait ammoniac ; or we may ufe the foap of lead, quickened alfo with the fpirit above mentioned. I have employed this lad with fuccefs, in diffneffes of the joints, with enlarge- ment. I have feen fome complete and true anchylofes, and two incom- plete or fpurious ones, in confequence of counter-drokes received in the joint we are fpeaking of which have all happened to perfons who had negledled to apply in time for proper relief. But the effects of thefe counter-drokes are not confined to the wrid, they mod commonly produce a fradture of the fore arm ; and whether this fradture be fimple or compound, it requires no other method of treatment than fuch as is well known. It mud only be obferved, that as the bones are at fome little didance from each other, it is neceffary, before the circular roller be applied, to place two flips of linen of tolera- ble thicknefs, fo as to anfwer to the inter-oifeous fpace, one on the out, the other on the infide. This precaution is more particularly neceffary when the fradture is in the middle of the fore arm, and if it be near the elbow joint, care mud be taken not to put the arm in a (ling ; it mud, on the contrary, be kept extended, for reafons which are very evident. U If