NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. 7S Such is the nature of the diforders proceeding from the excefs or defi- ciency of intefline motion, or of that which is independent of the will, and cflential to life. On the other hand, the excefs of the loco-motive faculty, produces a great number of local difeafes, fuch as external inflam- mation, abfcefles, &c., and is one general caufe of fractures, luxations, and fprains in the extremities ; while the deficiency of it, occafions rigi- dities of all kinds in the limbs and joints, local obftrudtions, rheuma- tifm, gout, &c. Thus we fee, that dilorders produced bv the excefs or deficiency of intefline motion, are general as their caufe : thole brought on by the fame errors in the loco-motive faculty, are partial as their principle. I have conlidered fratflures and luxations as being produced by excefs of the loco-motive power, for it has always appeared to me, that mod bones were broken by the drained action of the mufcles upon them, rather than by tbe application of external forces In cafes where the limb is quite paflive at the time of receiving the accident, as where a coach or cart wheel paffes over it, it is indeed evidently otherwife. But when the accident happens by fome flip or ludden effort, tbe mufcles, inferted in the bone, are then excited to their greatefl power of action* in order that we may be kept, if pofhble, from falling. It is at this infant, I fuppofe, that the bone breaks. In fra&ures of the patella, this manifeftly appears to be the cafe. This bone is fo thick, and its texture fo firm and compact, that any outward force applied that fhould be fuffi- cient to break it, would infallibly fhatter the joint, and, perhaps the whole limb, to pieces : for external force cannot be confined immediately to the fpot oil which it is exerted, but neceflarily extends itfelf in pro- portion to the weight, velocity, and other advantages it may a<fl with. We may conceive then, that fractures of the patella, always happen while the knee is bent, tvhich it generally is, when the foot flips in any man- ner. The flrong extenfor mufcles inlertcd into the patella, then exert all their power to bring the leg to the ftraight line, which would prevent the body from falling; but as they cannot overcome the ludden effort which determines the fall, all their force muft neceflarily be fjpent on the patella, which being then prefled acrols a fulcrum, formed in the flute of genu-fledtion, by the condyles of the thigh bone being pufhed forward.