MOTION AND REST. 45 with this tumour though it contained a large collection of matter: his ftate would not even have been changed fo fuddenly, if an opening had not been too precipitately made. We fhall be convinced of this by at- tending to what happens when thefe tumours are left to nature ; if they bur ft, the opening is made much later, and it is only at this period that patients are feized with any alarming Iymptoms, and that too in a much lefs degree than after the opening has been made by art‘'Aft The reafon of this is certainly becaufe nature procures no more than a very fmall iffue to the matter. If the patients then die, they perifin much later than in the other inftance. This difference in the event teaches us at leaft that we rauft not meddle with thefe tumours, that we mull apply nothing to them to haften their opening, lince nature appears to diiap- prove of their burfting, as a termination that is not ufually according to her wifhes. But here lome one perhaps may fay, that a dileafe of fo ter- rible a kind is beyond the refources of art and the efforts of nature. Let us beware of deciding this matter fo lightly ; and of aftigning limits to nature which (he hath not prel'cribed to herl'elf; for iince we have in- ftances of caries of the dorfal vertebrae cured by her aftiftance alone, why fhould not her power be extended to the cure of caries of the lumbar ver- tebrae, if her operations were not difturbed by improper meafures r At leaft the following is a faCt which feems to prove, that this difeafe is not beyond her power of relief. A young woman of twenty-two years of age, after having fallen on the bottom of her back, down a ftaircale, felt, for a confderable while, a pain, more or lefs acute, in the region of the loins, and was feized with a gradual weaknels in that part, which, in a Ihort time, prevented her from walking, and even from lupporting herl'elf; at which period, fhe applied to me. Revolving in my mind thefe Iymptoms and the caufe that had produced them, I imagined her cafe to be a difeafe of the lum- bar vertebrae, and the beft means of cure that could be prefcribed were reft, and lying a bed. I explained to her the imminent danger of her lituation, and engaged her punctually to follow my advice. This file did very exaftly, by going to bed and remaining there conftantly, taking H care