ON THE EFFECTS OF 56 between tbemfclves. To effedt this, I placed on the channel of the fif- tula a thick, roll of wetted lint, and applied over it, thick, graduated comprefles, exactly maintained, and ftrongly bound on the part by means of a bandage carefully rolled on. .This precaution, continued for fome time, made me hope that I might cure this complaint without having recourfe to a frefh operation ; but the patient riling out of bed, infteadof uling a bed pan, and the motion he gave to the part loofening the ban- dage, I obtained only a partial fuccefs from it. The fiftula indeed clofcd itfclf, but this was frequently only for a few days, and though it was not lb deep as before, yet ftill the little finus that remained, made me always apprehend a return of the complaint. To get rid of this anxiety, I determined to pal's, for two days, into the finus, a piece of lint impregnated with fome digeftive ointment animated with precipitate. At the end of two days I omitted this tent, and re- newed my bolftering and comprcllion on the whole extent of the finus as before, with the additional precaution of placing the limb in junks and other fupporters, as 1 fhoulcl have done for a fracture of the upper part of the thigh bone, or of its neck. By all thefe attentions, I at length fuc- cecded in obtaining a perfect cicatrix ; but that I might not be expofed to a relapfe, I continued them perhaps beyond the time neceflary to ef- fect my purpofe, chufing rather to life too much precaution in this cafe then to ncglcdt any. By judging from this fa ft, it fhould feem that nothing is required in the cure of finufles, except the contact of the parts which form the channel, and a perfect ltate of reft for as long a time as is neceflary, that they fhould contract folid adhefions between themfelves. Are there not a variety of cures, effefted in thele complaints by exadl and well- maintained comprellions, which confirm this truth ? Even the precau- tions by which I fucceeded in the cure of the cafe above mentioned, do they not almoft argue the inutility of the great operation I had at firfb attempted ? At leaf! they tell us very plainly, that we muff not re- 4 fort • 1