COUNTER-STROKES. *59 vances deftined to avoid or to diminifh the effects of thefe concuflions. It remains only, to ftnifh this eflay, that I fhould give a fummary reca- pitulation of the effects of counter-ftrokes, confidered either in their limited, or their mod: extenflve fenfe; and to explain the principal cura- tive intentions bed adapted to the feveral kinds of mifchiefs that may r.efult from them. From what has been hitherto find, we fee how many different difeafes may be referred to one fingle caufe ; and how various and numerous are the effeCts of counter-ftrokes. It is not therefore, without foundation,- that, at the beginning of this eflay, I declared, that the moft ferious dif- orders of furgery, and I might have added, of medicine, arofe from a fimilar caufe. All diflocations, wrenches, every diaflafis, all contufions in the joints of the extremities, disjunctions of the facrum, divulfion of the ligaments that connect it, and feveral of the injuries that happen to the pieces that confutete the fpine, are they not the effeCts of counter- ftrokes ? Are not moft fraCtures accompliftied by the fame mechanifm, as well as moft abortions, defcents of the uterus, and herniae ? Doth not this caufe frequently make fchirrous tumours degenerate into cancers, or produce the fame effeCt on other fwellings of a fimilar tendency ? Have not counrer-ftrokes often given rife to evident mifchiefs in the import- ant organs of the abdomen and thorax, when they were in a diftempered. ftate, and fometimes when they were found ? The moft ferious difor- ders of the brain, which we have not noticed, on account of the limits prefcribed by the Aicademy, are they not the refult of counter-ftrokes ? How many fubordinate accidents afterwards fucceed all thefe original dis- orders which we have enumerated? From all thefe circumftances, it cannot be doubted, but that counter-ftrokes are among the moft general caufes of the diforders to which our frail machine is fubjeCt. But notwithftanding the multiplicity and variety of the original acci- dents which are derived from this Angle caufe, we obferve, with fatisfac- Bon, that the intentions of cure to be followed in order to counteract thefe effeCts, whatever they may be, are always nearly the fame, when Y 2 ' the