109 COUNTER-STROKES. The tibia, in particular, may experience, from the effects of a counter- ftroke, another kind of fracture, of which the other-bones are certainly but little fulceptible. At leaf! it does not appear impoffible to me, but that, in a violent fhock on the tibia, the compact fubftance of this bone may refill, while there may be a frafture in the tranfverfe bony fibres, which compofe either the fpongy or the reticular fubftance. May not a rupture of fiome of the fibres of this laft fubftance be occasioned by a fall on the feet, or by leaping from a certain height, while the body of the bone fhall remain entire ? May not an injury of this kind give rife to an abfcefs in the cavity of the bone, and to all the mifchiefs which mull attend fuch a complaint ? The following fad feems to fpeak in favour of what is here advanced. A young man, of five and twenty years of age, having received a violent blow on the broad lurface of the left tibia, had nothing more than a contufion externally without fracture, which foon gave way to fpiri- tuous topics that were applied to it. He ftill continued, however, to feel an obtufe kind of pain, which feemcd to come from the infide of the bone. He paid little attention to it for four or five months ; but the pain, which then became more acute, was accompanied with a fwelling of the bone, which increafing gradually, produced an inflammation of the periofteum and integuments, the matter of which burfting of itfelf, left a fiftulous opening externally (fK By palling a ptobe into this open- ing, it was found to penetrate into the cavity of the hone. The patient being properly prepared, the exoftofed part of the tibia was laid bare throughout its whole extent; the crown of a trepan was applied over the fiftulous orifice in the bone, and the parts furrounding the exoftofis, were removed by the gouge, chiflel, and mallet. By thefe different pro- ceedings, an opening was made through the bone, (which, though ex- oftofed, was very hard) fufficiently large, to enable the operator to ex- tract a piece of bone, eighteen lines in length, which being infulated in the medullary cavity, afforded us an inftance of a true internal exfo- liation CsJ. With