MOTION AND - REST. 21 t'ion perfect enough to form none but proper nutritive juices, and to ex- pel the remains of thofe that have been fpoiled by time and friction r from which, it neceffarily follows, that there muffc be fome depraved hu- mours remaining. Thefe being depofited upon certain parts, produce in them difeafes more or lefs acute, and more or lefs dangerous, in propor- tion to the difference of the texture and fenfibility of thofe parts. Thefe depofits ufually taking place in the feet, the wrifts, and the knees, form the gout, which, as we fee, is the evident confequence of motion not being fufficiently exerted to keep up that fluidify of the humours which conftitutes health. If old people be more toimented with the gout, it is becaufe gluttony and indolence ufually increafe in an advanced age, and that at a time when the fupplenefs of the parts and the diameter of the lymphatic veflels are diminifhed, circumftances which contribute to en- courage thofe depofits of cretaceous matter that are the evident caufe of this difeafe. Young men, though rich and voluptuous, are exempt from the gout. For, belides the natural fupplenefs of the fibres in early life, the faculty of motion is excited in them by luch a variety of paflions, that it fupplies that adlion which want renders neceflary in lefs fortunate perfons. The game of tennis, dancing, hunting, fencing, and riding, are exercifes which prevent the bad effects of the want of motion among perfons of- this defcription ; but, at the age of thirty, thefe wholefome exercifes no longer make a part of their plan of amufement. On the contrary, their prefent games fcarce require that they fhould fpeak or move their fingers ; and accordingly the gout was never fo general as at prefent, even at a time of life when it was formerly unknown. It is evident from what has been faid, that want of motion is the principal caufe of this difeafe ; the work of nature, in relieving its paroxyfms, al- lows us no room to doubt that the falutary crilis which diffipates them is owing to an increafe of motion. This muff therefore certainly be the heft method of refilling or preventing the gout, and the indications which diredl the employment of it in the cure of this difeafe, are too precife to be miflaken. Befides, experience has fo frequently eflablifhed E the