68 NOTES BY THE AUTHOR. (q) The following are fails, fupplied me by the practice of the hofpital, lince 1 fent this eflay to the academy, and come very con- du lively in lupport of the curative means, the efficacy of which I have cftablilhcd. Peter le Leu having fallen, on the zzd of December 1777, on his right knee, felt a fnarp pain, but flill took fo little notice, that he continued his work the next day. Two days after, the pain increafed fo as to make it impoffiblc for him to work ; a confiderable fwelling, attended with much fever, came on, and an abfeefs was at laft formed in the joint. A fluctuation, at a projecting point on the infide of the knee, became evident five weeks after the accident ; and the pus collecting more and more, at length formed an external and very apparent tumour. The furgeon propofed opening it, but the patient not fubmitting, he was left to the care of nature alone. Towards the end of March, the matter made two openings for itfelf, from which there iflfued at firft a matter without fmell, and in very great quantity. But the pus foon changed its nature, becoming in a few days bloody and foetid, and the patient then found himfelf in a much worfe ftate than before the vent of the matter, which had been encouraged by all kinds of maturating applications. Neverthe- lefs, the patient, left totally to himfelf about this time, confining himfelf conitantly to his bed, and avoiding all motion of the part to lave him- felf from the pain that attended it, the difeharge began to lole its foetid fmell and to become lei's plentiful. The articulating furfaces of the this'll hone and the tibia were afterwards gradually foldered together, lo that when the patient came into the hofpital on the 15th September, 1 778, he had nothing more than a fmall flltulous opening at the upper and internal part of the leg, from which only a fmall quantity of pus was difeharged, the good condition of which bclpoke the lpeedy termination of this difeafe. It has ended in a complete atichylofis, with a projection of the tibia backwards, luch as would be oblerved in a luxation of the bone towards that part, and which is probably as much owing to the deldruclion of the crucial ligaments at the time of the fuppuration of the joint, as to the polition the patient may have kept the part in during hia long continuance in bed. 4 The