47 MOTION AND REST. filently admiring fuch a phenomenon, it is the province of a man, intent upon the improvement of his art, to endeavour to give fuch an explana- tion of it as {hall not be dilavowed by nature, whofe interpreter he is to be. Let us confider what this dileafe exhibits to us in the firfl: inflance. A difturbance of the organization in the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, by means of a fhock conveyed to them, or a violent divulfion of the ligaments that unite them. The {welling of the parts being the confe- quence of thefe firfl: accidents, and a flow inflammation coming on, this at length caufes a fuppuration and abfcefs, the feat of which is in the neighbourhood of the parts affe&ed. The organization of the bodies of the vertebrae being depraved it follows, that fmall feparations or fcales mufl be thrown off from thefe bones, which is as much effected by the organic aftion of the inflamed parts, as by the matter they fur- nifh. This matter itfelf after having been efficacioufly employed in fe> parating the corrupted from the found parts, is alfo the medium to which nature intrufts the care of expelling and carrying them out ; but this purpofe is effected very {lowly. Thefe bony fragments, of greater or lefs dimenflons, being detached by means of the matter, float in that liquid, to which they prefent a greater extent of furface in proportion as they are more divided. The pus itfelf in which they are fteeped, becomes a menftruum proper to difiolve them, and its quantity increafing in pro- portion to the continuance and extent of the fuppuration that feparates the loofe pieces of bone, it at length makes a paffage for itfelf towards the depending parts which afford the leaf; refiftance. It is generally un- derneath Poupart’s ligament that thefe tumours manifefl themfelves; but the matter is fill fheltered from the external air, and undergoing no change, produces no mifchief in the parts that furroirad it. The frag- ments of bone which float in this quantity of pus, may at length be to- tally diflblved in it, fo as to form a homogeneous mafs, which perhaps may not then in any wile differ from our moft elaborate nutritive jui- ces This being premifed, we need not be aflonifhed, if, at this period, nature, after having employed the pus as a menftruum to diffolve II 2 the