COUNTER-STROKES. 53S others, I have feleCted the following remarkable inftance of this. A young man, having fallen from the height of about thirty feet upon his buttocks, felt a very great pain in the region of the os facrum and of the loins. The fecond, third, and fourth lumbar vertebra;, made even an evident projection outwards, and befides the impoffibility which the patient experienced of fupporting himfelf upon his legs, they were at- tacked with a confiderable numbnefs, and were deprived of their quick- nefs of fenfation. Repeated bleedings, a ftriCt diet, graduated and very thick compreffes applied upon the projecting vertebrae, and fupported by the circular turns of a bandage rolled very tight' round the body ; the attention of keeping the patient upon his back, with his head low, and a pillow under his loins; were the means by which this accident was perfectly cured, in lefs than fix weeks. But the patient was more ftrongly induced to maintain the pofition in which I had placed him, by the diminution of his pain upon being put into it. I obferved alfo, in the firft days after the accident, that the tighter the bandage was, the more he was relieved ; for which reafon, 1 ordered it to be frequently wetted with brandy, to prevent it from getting loofe ; and when the effeCt was not anfwered by this contrivance, I made the whole bandage tighter by applying a freih roller. The patient, who found himfelf daily growing better, attempted to rife on the twenty-fixth day ; but his pains in the lumbar region returning, I confined him to his bed for ten or twelve days longer ; and when he got up again, 1 advifed him not to walk at firft without the help of a flick, and to wear a tight ban- dage round his body, in order, for fome time, to give greater firmnefs to the fpine. A fall of this kind might have occafioned a divulfion of the facro-iliac fymphyfis, efpecially if this young man, in falling, had pitched only upon one buttock, and upon the tuberofity of the ifchium on the fame fide. Although frequent inftances occur, of the lumbar vertebras being much expofed to the effieCts of counter-ftrokes, yet they are not the only verte- bras that experience the pernicious effeCts of a fimilar caufe ; for it may aCt alio upon the dorfal vertebrae, lo as to produce very great fubfequent T 2 mifchiefs.