ON THE EFFECTS OF mifchicfs. Lateral diflortions of the fplne, and Its exceflive projection outwards, have been often occafioned by a counter-flroke, the fhock of which hath fallen upon thefe vertebrae: at lead: I have feen many deformed perfons who had become fo, only in confequencc of falls they L.:d been c'xpofed to in their younger days. With refpcCt to the method of cure to be purfued, it is almoft entirely prophylactic ; it is fcarce of anv utility, except in the firft in fiance, and fhould be little different from that which is adapted to the complaints of which I have been giving the hiftory. Bleeding, relf, and a circular bandage round the body, may be fufficient: it will be proper, however, in children, to add to thefe methods, the remedies calculated for the rickets, whenever there appears a tendency tv) this difeafe, which is itfelf often the only caufe of thefe deformities. Abforbents, tonics, bitters, preparations of fteel, and efpecially an abfti- nence from all acefcent food, are then the moft effectual remedies. After having fucceflively examined the effcCts of counter-flrokes on the different bones which compofe the pelvis, and the greatefl part of the fpine, it remains only, to complete this feclion, that 1 fhould trace thefe eifevSls upon the other bones which concur in the formation of the trunk. Among thefe, the cervical vertebras do not appear to me fufceptiblc of the bad effeCls of counter-flrokes ; but this cannot be faid either of the ribs or the fternum. That the ribs elpeciallv, may be fraCtured in a part dis- tant from that which receives the fhock, is a fact which Hands in no need of being proved ; fraClures of the ribs, with projection outwards, are always the effeCt of a counter-flroke, to which their form renders them liable. The rib being ftopped fhort, as it were, backwards, at the fame time that it receives a confiderablc fhock towards its anterior extremity, is fraCtured in the middle : this may alio happen when the fhock bears upon the cartilaginous part of the rib, or upon the fternum, provided the body that caufes it, have iome extent of furface, and fhall ftrike with a certain velocity ; but the mechanifm of this fraCture, and the treatment of it, are too well known for us to dwell upon. If the fhock fhould bear upon the angular or middle part of the rib, even in the inflance where the oppofite fide of the chef! fhould lean againft fome refilling body,