^4 NOTES BY THE AUTHOR. (c) I mean the fluid which forms the connection between the mate- rial and fpiritual parts of our being. \ (d) This medium comprehends a certain latitude, within the limits of which, health is included. (e) By thefe bounds we are to underftand the quantity of life, not the duration of it. A valetudinarian lives, but he enjoys a lefs degree of life than the man who is in full health. (j) The following fadt will prove, that however inconiiderate fuch a practice may be, there are flill many perfons who follow it.—A country furgeon, being called fome years ago to reduce a fradture of the olecranon, did nothing more than place the fore-arm in a ftate of extenfion, and main- tain it there by a bandage and fome fplints. Twenty days after the acci- dent, the parents of the patient called in the affiftance of two furgeons from a neighbouring epifcopal city. They exclaimed openly againft the pradlice that had been purlued, and decided, that as an anchylofis was the unavoidable confequence of iuch a fradture, the bent pofture of the fore-arm fhould be preferred to its extenfion. Accordingly they exerted all their efforts to feparate the union already begun, and placed the fore- arm in a (ling. This fact was told me, a few months after, by one of the furgeons concerned, who related it as a proof of his own judgment, and of the unikilfulnefs of the firffc furgeon employed, who probably had not been diredted in his pradtice by refledtions drawn from the nature of the difeafe ; otherwife he would not have fuffered pradtices lo repug- nant to the good principles he would have adopted : for to place the fore- arm in a bent poflure in a fradture of the olecranon, is the fame thing as bending the leg upon the thigh in a fradture of the patella. CgJ I fay a moderate extenfion, becaufe a too ftrong one, efpecially if the olecranon were fradtured near its origin, would pulh the cubitus too much forward, and prevent the fradtured furfaces from being adapted to each other. This would occafion, after the union was completed, a