COUNTER-STROKES. *33 1arake, it may not, perhaps appear improper to explain, in this place, in what manner a fall or an effort may give rile to them. In a falfe ftep, or a fall upon the feet, if the upper parts do not bear perpendicularly upon the facrum, but if, on the contrary, they bear a little behind, the perfon then will fall backwards. To prevent this ac- cident, the pfoas and iliacus interims mufcles, the fixed point of which is then at their attachment to the little trochanter, adt, at the inflant, with power and celerity upon the trunk, to concur in bringing back the line of gravity of the upper parts on the balls of the facrum, upon th? bones of the thigh ; but the fudden effort of thefe mufcles is fcmetimes fo great, that many of its fibres may buffer a rupture, which may give rife to an inflammation, and an abfcefs in the fubftance of them, and afterwards to a caries of the neighbouring bones ; a difeafe of fo terrible a nature, that art hath as yet difcovered no refource againft it. I have had lo little reafon to be fatisfied with the methods I have tried, or feen tried, in a number of thefe cafes, that I can venture to affirm, that it is the beft way to leave thofe who are afrlidted with this difeafe to nature, particularly when they are arrived to a certain period. The abfcefles which come forward, then burft of themfelves ; they leave fmall fiftulous openings, and the patients may live, at leafl for a certain time ; whereas they all perifh in a few days, whenever thefe immenfe collections of matter are opened largely. It is for this reafon I propofe hereafter to open, only with a trocar, any abfceff>t of this kind that may come under my notice; for notwithftanding what Mauquest de la Motte hath faid upon the fubjedt, I have never feen one of them, the opening of which could have been reafonahly attempted, by plunging a fcalpel into the abdomen. It is not when counter-flrokes have given rife to thefe extreme mif- chiefs, of which I have been mentioning inifances, that we can pretend to oppofe their effects ; the original accidents, are thofe which we muft particularly attend to relieve. But in order to do this fuccefsfully, we muft make ourfelves well acquainted with the mechanilm of the counter- T. Broke,, *