MOTION AND REST. 4j by the affiftance of maturating poultices applied to the tumour, a fiftulous. opening was made in it, from whence there iffued, according to the pa- tient’s account, more than a quart of matter as white as milk. This difcharge having continued very plentiful for three months without hopes of cure, the parents, tired with the length of the difeafe, took the refo- lution of fending this young lad to the Hofpital. When he came there he had a fiftulous opening on the right fide of the lumbar region, which furnifhed an ichorous and plentiful difcharge ; a flow fuppuratory fever accompanied, and every appearance feemed to fihew that death would foon terminate this diforder. A pledgit of loft ointment only was put upon the fiftulous orifice, and the difeafe was left to nature. I frequently faw this patient, who being better fed, and more attended to than at home, began to recover a little from the deplorable ftate to which he had been reduced. He particularly kept very quiet in his bed, and his fpine was then incurvated with an evident projeftion outwards, towards the laft dorfal vertebrae. About two months after he came into the Hofpital, the matter which oozed from the fiftulous opening, grew thicker and lefs plentiful, the countenance appeared better, the pulfe lefs frequent, and he began to give fome hope of recovery. This hope was more confirmed fix weeks after, for the difcharge was ftill leflened, and the patient began to feel fome degree of ftrength in the fpine. Two months after this laft period, the fiftulous orifice was clofed, and the pa- tient began to walk with a ftick ; but he was crooked, and feemed to have loft much of his former height. From the accidents this patient had undergone, and the deformity the lpine had contracted during the courfe of his difeafe, I imagined that fome of the dorfal vertebrae had been affected with caries ; that the re- mains of them after being confounded together, and after having been in a ftate of granulation, had at length acquired a degree of folidity l'uffi- cient in fome fort to fupply the bodies of thefe bones. I could not but confider reft as having been the chief promoter of this falutary end ; and