COUNTER-STROKES. M-3 the immediate application of the force upon them; or elfe thcfe parts will refifl, and the os brachii will be fradfured by a counter-droke, as it frequently happens. The os brachii will either be broken in its body, and then the curative intentions are too well known to be mentioned here, or elfe this bone may be fradiured at its upper extremity, or its neck, and in that cafe we mull take fuch precautions as the feat of the fradture re- quires. Though the curative indications be the fame as in all other frac- tures, yet the mode of fulfilling them is different. As it is impoffible to furround the fradtured part with a circular roller, after having put the bones into a proper fituation, we mud apply under the upper part of the arm, two thin comprefifes which muff crofs each other on the fore part of the fhoulder, while the axilla and the infide of the arm mud be de- fended with tow or lint, previoufly deeped, as well as the above-mentioned comprefifes, in a mixture of oil of rofes, the yolks of eggs, and brandy UJ. The arm mud afterwards be brought clofe to the trunk, while any hollows there may be between the arm and the trunk, either at the fore or the back part, mud be filled up with lint or tow, which is alfo to be put round the upper part of the arm and the fhoulder, and the arm is then to be kept in the fituation in which it has been placed, by the circular' turns of a roller palled round the body and including the arm, and by a bandage fomewhat fimilar to the capeline for the clavicle, taking care only that the roller fhould be long enough to make n fufficieut number of turns round the body. The arm being thus immoveably fixt to the trunk, and the fore arm put in a fling, nothing can prevent the re-union of the fradtured pieces. Jt is by this very Ample method, which is fimilar to that of M. MosCate, that 1 have cured leveral fractures of the neck of the os brachii without the lead accident. The padding recommended by that able pradtitioner, is very well calculated to anfwer the furgeon’s intentions in this cafe: and we may have recourfe to it, if we think pro- per, in preference to any other mode^-h But the fhock tranfmitted from the elbow to the os brachii, may leave that bone entire, and make ufie of it merely as a medium, by which the mifehief is conveyed to a greater didance. Thus it is that a fracture of U 2 the