MOTION AND REST. *5 Cation is to be fulfilled ? Which is the kind of remedy that'experience hath determined to be the mof fuccefsful in thefe cafes ? It is the mo- tion of the parts compofing the joint, which by afting upon the thick- ened fynovia, by rubbing and triturating it, ref ores to it that fluidity it had lofl. The indications for the ufe of this method are indeed fo pointed in this fort of anchylofis, that it cannot be fupplied by any other ; but there are other kinds of this difeafe in- which there are evidently counter-indica- tions that oppofe themfelves to the application of it; and in others again, there is as much precaution as Ikill neceffary to direct the employ- ment of it. A ha fly review of the chief caufes of this diieafe will be fufficient to direct the proper application of motion in it's cure. The anchylofis may be the effedt of too long-continued reft, of too great inadtion of the bones defined ufually to move on one another, and then it will be fufficient to re fore by degrees thele bones to their ordi- nary motion, either by the adtion alone of the mufcies that are inferted into them, fupported with a degree of firmnefs neceflarv to overcome the painful fenfation of the firf motions, or by increafing that adtion by external powers. It feldom happens, however, that inadtion alone, even though continued for a confiderable length of time, can produce this difeafe. Its mofl ufual caufes are, the difeafed fate of the bones, either on their articular furfaces, or in the neighbourhood of the articulations, the inflammation and tenfion of the ligaments that frengthen them, and of the mufcular aponeurofes that cover them. It may be obferved in- deed, that in the difeafed fate of the articular furfaces of the bones, the anchylofes may frequently be confidered as the refource of nature for the prefervation of a limb (he is not willing to lofe ; and in thefe cafes we ought to be fo far from refifing the progrefis of this diieafe, that our art muf be exerted in encouraging it by every pofible means h3). It may here well be prefumed that motion is not to be employed to bring about this falutary end, as I final! ffiew hereafter, when i ffiall expofe the indi- cations which direct the ule of ref in furpical complaints. But fettintr afide thefe circumf ances in which an anchylofis may be confidered as an advantage, motion muf be the curative medium mof to be depended upon N /