MOTION AND REST. 57 But fort to fuch an operation, till compreffion, employed with all the faga- city which different cafes may require, has been found infufficient 07. Even fiftulas of the anus prefent feme precife indications for the em- ployment of reft. The divifion of the nooze or bridge of fiefh that lies between the two openings forming the fiftuia, de es nothing more than proteCt the parts forming the nooze, from that habitual motion which prevented their re-union. When they are once divided, they enjoy, in comparifon with their former ftate, a degree of reft fufficient to allow the cicatrix to be formed throughout the whole ulcerated extent that formed the rides of the fiftuia. We may even obferve, that the healing of the wound is never more furely and more fpeeally effected, than when by means of a foft tent, we make our dreflings prefs a little upon all the difeafed part ; for they are not the ointments with which thefe tents arc covered that perform the cure, lince I have often effefted this without their aftiftance. Neither is it the pafling of the excrements that puts an obftacle to the cure ; fince I have feen perfectly cicatrized in a fhort time, fiftulas, in which the wound was conftantly covered with fceces. But the ufe of the tent is fo far from being an indifferent matter, that I have often obferved the fiftular canal to become ulcerated again, when this comprefiion was left off too foon after the formation of the cica- trix^ From thefe obfervations, the propriety of which muft be evident, it follows, that it might perhaps be pofiible to cure fiftulas of the anus without either incifion or ligature. A careful compreffion, made by means of a pretty firm tent, introduced much beyond the internal ori- fice of the fiftuia, might be the more likely to fucceed in the cure of this difeafe, if by previous evacuations and a ftri<ft diet, the firft dis- charge of excrement could be delayed till the fides of the fiftuia fliould have acquired an adhefion fufficiently ftrong and firm, not to be deftroyed by the contraction of the fphinCter. Thefe are trials to be made, if they have not yet been attempted, and the effedt of them I fihall foon have an opportunity to determine.