NOTES BY THE AUTHOR. 69 The following fa£t furnifhes another inftance in which nature fecrns to be preparing the fame kind of termination. A foldier named Pecquigni, in the regiment of Touraine, having marched fome days after he had received a wrench, has fuffered all the accidents that can poffibly follow fo imprudent a hep. A pain and inflammatory fwelling came on, the fuppuration of which being long delayed, it was refolved to remove him to another place. The tumour having at length fuppurated and opened itfelf by five or fix fiftulous orifices, which, on being probed, evidently difcovered a very extenfive caries of the bones of the tarfus, and of the joint of the leg with the foot. The patient was fent back to the hofpital at Rouen, where he came on the 14th of Auguft. He had a flow fuppuratory fever, which grew higher every night, and was at- tended with cough and a hoarfenefs. The foot and lower part of the leg were extremely fwelled, and at the circumference of the tarfus and the joint, there were feveral fiftulous openings which furnifhed a great quantity of ichorous, bloody, and very foetid pus. The ftate of ftupi- dity in which I found the patient the next day and the day after, a colliquative fever, with a diarrhoea, an afh-coloured and emaciated counte- nance, made me confider amputation as a very uncertain method of preferving his life. This, joined to the averfion I have for thefe muti- lations which are fo often ineftedtual, led me to entertain hopes, even in this cafe, critical as it was, of the effects of reft and infrequent dreffings, which I had fo effedlually employed for three months in a.caries of the wrift, which I fhall mention hereafter. Accordingly I covered the fiftu- lous openings with pledgits dipt in the commanders balfam (-6\ and put over them large plaifters of diachylon, refolving to drels my patient only every five or fix days, and putting the part between junks. Since five weeks that I have perfifted in this method, the diarrhoea has flopped, the countenance and the pulfe are infinitely mended, the difcharge is thicker, lefs in quantity, and lefs foetid ; the patient fleeps, and has recovered * lome appetite, fo that we may already indulge in the hope of feeing this malady terminate by a falutary anchylofis. L (O To