NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. The excefs of inteftine motion produces all thofe general difeafes in the habit, which are the effect of anv univcrfally irritating caufe whatfoever; fuch as inflammatory fevers, epileptic fits, univerfal fpafm of all kinds, apoplexies, violent and fudden haemorrhages, with many other diforders that fall chiefly under the province of the phyfleian, and were therefore out of our author’s difeuflion. A deficiency of inteftine motion, on the contrary, produces all thofe complaints that are the etfe<ft of a general relaxation and debility, throughout the animal oeconomv. Under this clafs may be ranged all putrid fevers, dropfies, &c. There is another furgical difeafe which may likewife be referred to either or both of the above caufes combined ; I mean true or mixed aneurifms of the larger arteries, that are not the immediate efreift: of external injury. Al- though thefe complaints manifeft themfelves in l'ome particular part, as in the thigh, leg, or arm, and therefore put on the appearance of local difeafes, yet the fatal event that almoft conftantly follows any operation performed in thefe cafes, feems to indicate a general difeafe of the whole arterial fyftem. This may proceed either from the inteftine motion of the heart and arteries being too ftrong for the refiftance of the arterial coats, or from a want of inteftine motion in the arterial coats themfelves, which, preventing them from reacting properly on the fluid thrown into them by the force of the heart, occcafions them to give way, and to fwell out into aneurifmal tumours ; or, which is moft probable, both thole caufes combined may produce this difeafe. However this may be, it is no lefts apparent, that this is lome peculiar difeafe of the whole habit ; for among the feveralinftances of this kind that I have feen, I never faw one recover after amputation, which is generally the only operation that can be per- formed in thefe cafes *. In one of them that was under my care at the Weftminfter Hofpital, I had flattered myfelf with fome hopes of fuccefs. It was a very large aneurifm of the femoral artery, for which I was obli- ged to amputate the thigh, very near the groin, becaufe the difeafe ran far up the limb. The wound, from the beginning of the fuppuration, * A cafe of popliteal aneurifm, which was treated by amputation in the Glocefter Infirmary, proved fuccefsful. E. appeared