NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. 88 (20) In fcrophulous ulcers attended with caries, I have ufed, with good iuccefs, a (mail portion of the magnes arfenicalis, which I have applied to the foul ulcers and carious bones. The idea of ufing this medicine in fcrophulous ulcers, was fuggeded to me, from a furgical manufcript I found at the Britidi Mufeum, which advifcd it, as a fpecihc in thofe cafes. But though apparently a very uleful application, and indeed more fo than any other topic 1 have ever tried, yet I cannot take upon me to fay, that it deferves this appellation. There were alio fome other curious matters I extracted from manufcripts in that collection, and of which a full account has appeared, in the work which I have published, on the treatment of cancerous difeafes. (21) I knew not, till I read this pamphlet, that volatile alkalis had been propofed by Mr. Perilhe in the cure of this difeafe ; but, for fome years pad, it has been my con dan t practice, both in private, and at the Wedminder Hofpital to give drong volatile medicines in the cure of the venereal difeafe. The volatile I ufed formerly to prefcribe, was the volatile tin&ure of guaicum ; and this I did with a view to afiift the aftion of mercury ; for I have always held, that in order to render mer- cury more efficacious in the cure of the venereal difeafe, it was neceffiary to excite the powers of it by warm and dimulating medicines. Bv this combination, I have fucceeded in curing feveral venereal complaints, which fublided after the patients had been falivated, and had per- fevered in a courfe of mercurial medicines for a verv confiderable length of time, I confidcr falivation, indeed, merely as an overdole of mercury, and cannot think it contributes the lead, in itfelf, to the expullion of the virus. But thefe, and feveral other obfervations, which reading and a careful pra&ice has fupplied me with, on the venereal difeafe, would lead me too far here. I diall only hint at one particular cafe, of a terrible venereal cancer, that had eaten away the greater part of the penis, and the cure of which feemed to prove, that the cancerous ulcer, fometimes fuccceding to this difeafe, requires a different treatment from the venereal virus itfelf; and that, although the cancer fhould be cured, the virus dill remains in the body. The patient I allude to, had taken 4 * a pro*