NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR, 11 forward, muft the more readily give way ; and thus the knee pan is bro- ken before the patient falls to the ground. That the cylindrical bones of the extremities may alfo be broken in this manner, is probable, from the great difference of fradtures happening while the limb is in a paffive, or in an adtive ftate. In the former cafe, there is generally a much greater comminution of the bones, the neighbouring parts are more injured,, and the fradtures for the mod part are compound. In the latter cafe, or when the limb is broken by forne fudden flip or effort, the mifehief is frequently, nothing more than a fimple fradture of the bone. Both thefe caufes, it is true, (to wit, a too ftrong exertion of mufcular adlion, and a violent, concuflion from external force,) may concur in producing fractures, dis- locations, and fprains. Thefe mud neceffarily be of the word kind ; and accordingly we fee, that in fradtures from fudden leaps, in which the force of the mufcles of the foot is exerted in its highed degree, and in which the part mud alio receive a very powerful external droke, pro- portioned to the height and velocity of the fall, and to the nature of the bodies on which the foot may light; in thefe cafes, I’fay, we generally find the ancle joint torn to pieces, and that a mortification, the confe- quence of this complicated injury, dedroys the patient in a very diort time, unlefs this fatal event be prevented by immediate amputation'*. Thefe * The following very remarkable accident happened to a traveller on, the box of a Rage coach. He was thrown on the ground with great violence, by the overturning of the carriage, and was foon afterwards taken to a neighbouring houfe, with his ancle in a very deformed Rate. 1 wo gentlemen of the faculty, who were immediately called, finding a great degree of mifehief done to that joint, and that, from a preternatural fullnefs of the poRerior parts, fome of the tarfal hones were dilplaced, took no fmall pains to reRore to its proper Rtuation, what was evidently much out of it. Their endeavours, however, were fruitlefs; fo that after a confulerable time (pent in the attempt, (as well as at the defire of the patient himfelf,) they were obliged to defiR. The joint was then poulticed, with a view to reduce the tenfion, which, by this time, was become very confiderable. Three days afterwards, it appeared, that an extraneous body had been forced in, between the inferior part of the tibia, and the tendo Achilhs. The violent preffure, which had been made ufe of to return this fubfiance to its place, produced a mortification of tire integuments, and thefe Houghing off in the courfe ol a few days, afforded an opportunity ot extradling, what was before fufpedted to be, a M 2 poi tion