NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. S9 a prodigious quantity of mercury before I faw him. He had had mavy univerfal fymptoms of the difeafe, which had all yielded to this treat- ment; and there remained only, when he applied to me, this tei ibis cancerous ulcer before mentioned, which had already eaten away one half of the penis, and was fpreading very fart on the prepuce towards the integuments of the abdomen. With great difficulty, 1 iucceeded in putting a flop to this cancer, without a grain of mercury, by methods which 1 ffiall give a full account of on another occaiion. To my great furprize, however, no fooner was the cancer healed, than my patient was feized with venereal fymptoms all over the body, viz. ulcers in the throat, univerfal pains, fwelled legs, and nodes upon the bones. All thefe, however, yielded readily to a prudent adminifcration of mercury, joined to a&ive volatile Emulating medicines and the warm bath ; and the patient, at this day, three years from the time of his being under my care, enjoys a perfect flate of health. (22) The beft inftrument ever invented for thefe cafes, is that publifh- ed in the Memoirs of the Academy of Surgery, under the name of Mr. Vacher, and it feems to act entirely upon thefe principles ; for, by keeping the fpine, as much as poffible, in one continued flate of extenfion, it not only prevents the vertebrae from preffing upon each other, but likewdfe hinders them from moving one upon the other, and confequently in fome meafure maintains them in a flate of reft. (23) ^ is needlefs to expatiate upon the novelty and excellence of all thefe obfervations refpedting abfceffes proceeding from carious vertebra: cf the back or loins, or, in other words, of what w’e familiarly call pfoas cafes, which deftroy fo many patients at all periods of life. But thefe call to my remembrance a remarkable cafe, which fell under my care in the Wejhminjier Hfpital, and the event of which I could never fatisfa&orily account for. This cafe is related at large in my Effay on Abfceffes, page 128, (24) From