65 NOTES BY THE AUTHOR. bony projection on the fide of the joint, which might totally impede its motion. If the fra&ure fhould have happened nearer to the extremity of the olecranon, the forcible extenfion of the fore arm would make a gap between the fraCfcured pieces on the fide of the cavity of the joint ; the olecranon would confequently become fomewhat lengthened, and thrown lip, and the effect of this injudicious practice would at lead be a difficulty and a decreafe of motion. (h) Upon this fubjedt may be feen the fecond part of my ElTay on Counter-ftrokes in other Parts of the Body befides the Head, which obtained the prize in 1771, under the the name of John Martin Bazilie. Prix de I'Jcademie, Vol. IV. (1) I have feen fome perfons attacked with this difeafe, in whom the fymptoms, before the opening of thefe abfceffes, had not been more in- tenfe than thofe here mentioned ; and who, after the evacuation of the matter, have perifhed at the period I have marked. (k) I have at prefent under my notice a very finking indance of what is here advanced. A young man of four-and-twenty years of age, who has an abfcefs in the loins after a difeafe of the fpine, fo evident, that it forms a pretty confiderable projection, had experienced, during the formation of this abfcefs, no other fymptoms than a debility of the fpine, attended with a dull kind of pain, without any remarkable fever or lofs of appetite, &c. But this abfcefs having at length burditfelf, the pa- tient was feized a few days after with a drong fever, and a total lofs of appetite and red, which gave reafon to apprehend that the diforder would loon terminate fatally. But after he had continued a fortnight in this alarming date, he began to grow better ; the difcharge, from being icho- rous and offenfive as it was, lofes daily its bad fmell, and acquires a better confidence j the pulfe becomes more regular, and every thing feems to promife, that with time and red, the patient will efcape with no other inconvenience than that of being a little deformed. Such