ON THE EFFECTS OF 1 5* natural, or at leaf!:, not an ordinary (late. At any rate, the Injuries they may be expofed to in thefe inftances themfelves, are always the effect of Counter-Strokes, taken in the mold extenfive fenfe. Thus it is, that abor- tion and its confequences may be confidered as the effect of fuch a caul'e. The moft trifling fall, or a falfe ftep, are fometimes fufficient to produce it, becaufe, in thefe circumstances, the motion of the pelvis being already (topped, while the placenta, fixed to the uterus, (till tends to move down- wards with the velocity acquired by the fall, an effort is made upon that part of the womb to which it is fixed, which would feparate it much more frequently than we obferve this to happen, if it experienced any refiftance from the womb, or if the uterus had not nearly the fame tendency downwards as that fpongy body has. But this circumftance, fo favourable in preventing its feparation in ordinary and habitual motions, becomes in- sufficient when the pelvis Suffers Shocks of any violence : the divulfion of the placenta becomes then almoSt a neceffary confequencc, notwith(landing the power which the fundus of the uterus has to follow its motion down- wards, and notwithstanding the prefence of the waters, which take off fo considerably from the weight of the placenta itfelf. We know in what manner the feparation of this organ, when begun in one Spot, extends itfelf by means of the fluid, which iffuing from the fmall ruptured fibres, is extravafated between the placenta and the Sides of the uterus; we know how the flux of the blood is brought on, and lafily, how the pains which come on, give rife to premature labour. With refpe£t to the pro- per means of preventing this alarming accident, every furgeon is acquainted with them. Bleeding, red:, and diet, are the remedies beft adapted to the complaint, and they fometimes fucceed; the moSt complete reSt cfpecially, is abfolutely neceffary. This is at leaSt all that can be done by art, under fuch circumftances. It is by the fame mechanifm, that a fall, upon the feet, or upon the knees, a leap, &c. may produce a recent hernia, or force down an old one, and thus become the diStant caufe of all the mifehiefs that may enfue. It is by the fame mechanifm that a fchirrous tefticle, which is not fupported by a fufpenfory, in the (hocks which are the confequencc of the fall, may occafion a dragging down of the cord, and excite a pain in it which may be communicated to the tef- ticle 4