MOTION AND REST. 49 nous parts that are vitiated, from whatever caufe ; and Hie depofits, in the cavity of the joint, thefe fragments, together with the pus that has fepa- rated and conveyed them there. This pus, after having employed more or lefs time in. melting down thefe fragments, might poffibly, as in the inftance above cited, be re-abforbed into the general mafs without incon- venience. My practice has not furnifhed me with any inftance in which nature hath followed this plan in fuch cafes; but the following is the moft ordinary way fhe chufes, and which fhe alfo frequently adopts in caries of the dorfal as well as of the lumbar vertebrae.. The pus-, which till the time of the complete diftolution of thefe frag- ments, feemed to exert no fenlible corroding power upon the texture of the Ikin that confines it, after coming nearer and nearer to this external .covering, at length raifes in it an inflammation of a very finall extent, and by means of the fuppuration fet forward in it, a fiftulous opening is made, which gives vent to a large collection of matter that hath often been from feven to eight months, and more, in forming. By this con- trivance the pus being evacuated by degrees, and the air not having ac- cefs to its cavity, it doth not acquire that ftate of decompofition which makes a deftruCtive principle of it. The irritating faculty of the pus fcarce fhewing itfelf till all the fragments, as well bony, as ligamentous and cartilaginous, are completely melted down, it may reafonably be pre- fumed, that the pus is as it were neutralized by the principles they im- part to it,, and that they are thefe fragments which maintain it in that mild and unCtuous ftate we obferve it to be in before this perfeCt diflolu- tion. What I have laid upon this point becomes fo much the more pro- bable from the circumftance of my having rarely found any bony frag- ments in the matter of thofe abfceffes that have opened of themfelves, and that I have always feen them in thofe collections which have been opened before the time intended by nature. It is plain however, that during a work fo long continued, and fo prudently direfted, nature muft have been in particular want of reft in the part where fhe was carrying on thefe operations, and that motion could only interrupt and trouble them. But if reft have been hitherto ufeful, it is no left neceflary to conduCt