NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. 86 (18) Burnt fponge is one of the remedies that feem to ain this man- ner, in the cure of this difeafe. If perfevered in for a long time, and ufed very freely, I am inclined to think it one of the moft ufeful alcaline and abforbent medicines againft this complaint, and alfo againfl the bron- chocele, in which latter inftance, I have fometimes ufed it with fuccefs. But to do any good in thefe laft cafes, it mult be ufed much more freely than it generally is. I have had patients who have taken more than an ounce of it every day. (19) I find, in Lieutaud’s Synopfis, and Wecker’s Antidotarium fpeciale, the following plafters of Vigo. Emplastrum de Ranis, vel de Vigo, cum mercurlo, maxima reruin copia exfurgit. Primo, coquuntur in vino Sc aceto range & lumbrici, cum radicibus ebuli & enulae, floribus chamaemeli, lavandulas, &c. Dein feorfim liquantur cera Sc axungiae, ftyrax Sc terebinthina, cum oleis rana- rum, lumbricorum, liliorum, &c. Quibus fufis adduntur olibanum mvr- rha, euphorbium & crocus, cum oleo eflentiali lavandulae. Turn decoflo & liquamini, fimul mixtis, Sc ulterius coftis, adjicitur mercurius ope terebinthinzB Sc ftyracis extin&us ; ut ex omnibus notiflima arte fubadlis emergat emplaftrum, quod inter eximia refolventia Sc incidentia haud immerito dccantatur. Ideo conducit in tumoribus cvfticis Sc anomalis ; gummata venerea evincit; glandulis fcrophulofis opitulatur, See. Pof- tremo nonnunquam adhibetur amplitudine congrua, ad movendam faliva- tionem, vel oppugnandum virus venereum adhibetur, atque in hunc fmem paratur cum duplicato vel quadruplicato mercurio, ut ad hoc opus effica- cius evadat. Lieutaud, p. 89y. R Rcguli antimonii optime preparati et in pulverem triti. Nitri purijicati et in pulverem feorjtm rcdafli ana Thefe two powders being mixed, throw a fpoonful at a time into a red hot crucible, and let the whole calcine for fix hours. This is afterwards to be pulverized and kept in a glafs veflel. To complete the procefs, we are directed to add to each pound of the powder, warmed over the fre, fix ounces of flrong cinnamon water, drop by drop, fining it con- tinually till the whole is evapoiated, E, Diachylon