120 ON THE EFFECTS OF ftammation more or lefs confiderable. The methods of cure to he em- ployed in fucli circumftances, will be every thing that can alleviate the pain, and prevent the lwelling and inflammation of the injured and bruifed parts. Bleeding, reft, and a regimen, are very proper to fulfill this double indication ; but the bleeding muft be repeated feveral times, and even at fhort intervals, if the pain ftiould be violent. Heft muft be abfolute, that is to fay, that all kind of motion of the thigh upon the trunk, or of the trunk upon the thigh, muft be prohibited till the time for the coming on of the bad fvmptoms be paft; becaufe however flight may be the friflion of the confuted and inflamed parts upon each other, it cannot but be extremely painful. With refpeft to the diet, that muft be very.ftr’nSUy obferved. Jt is undoubtedly for want of having taken thel'e precautions in the firft period of counter-ftrokes in the joint of the thigh, that feveral patients have experienced that long feries of accidents that has brought them to the grave. Nothing is therefore more eflfential than to recommend lying in bed to thofe who have received, by counter-ftroke, violent fhocks in the joint of the hip, and to confine the limb in fucli a manner, that the head of the bone fhall not be able to play in its cavity, more efpecially when motion is extremely painful. This precaution, however, will not prevent us from having recourfe to repeated bleedings, to a diet more or lefs rigid, and to refolutive topics applied round the joint. Although we can have no great dependence upon thefe topics, on account of the depth of the parts on which they are to aft, yet they arc not to be negledted. Spirituous, refolutive applications, for inftance, may perhaps convey their effefts farther .than we fuppofe. It is by purfuing this kind of treatment, which is that of all well-informed pra&itioners, that 1 have feen many of thefe fhocks, though violent, unattended with any ferious conlequence ; while others, which in the firft inftance feemed to require no attention, have produced the greateft mifehiefs, for want of having taken the above-mentioned precautions in time. Reft, above all, is the firft of remedies; and we cannot be too attentive in fulfilling this curative indi- cation. Suppofing