55 MOTION AND REST. joint. At fird, I apprehended fome caries of the bone, but having met with bony particles in the way of my probe, I thought it proper to treat this fidula by laying it open through its whole extent, by which I might be at liberty to afl; as circum fiances fhould require, if, at the time of the operation, I fhould find that the difeafe was complicated with caries. The fidula being opened through its whole extent, and appearing confi- ned to the ffefhy parts, I fhould only have made a firnpie incilion, had I not been allured from experience, that in two or three days, notwith- standing all my endeavours to the contrary, the bottom of the difeafes would have been concealed from me by the diflention, and even by the re-union of fome of the found divided parts. But forefeeing this incon- venience, which I had before experienced feveral times in fimilar cafes, I removed fome portions of the flefhy parts, and drelTed the wound to the bottom and rather clofe. I continued this precaution during the whole of the cure, which went on as ufual in other firnpie wounds. The fiftula began to fill up, and to confolidate itfelf gradually, the edges of the divided parts funk by degrees, and in two months, formed aimed a complete cicatrix, which feemed to promife a certain and fpeedy cure. But at the time when the fear was juft clofmg, the patient, who had conftantly kept his bed, having rifen and walked more than he ought to have done, felt, a few days after, fome pain; a rednefs appeared through the whole length of the lcar, with a fmall projecting biueifh point in the middle, which having bur ft with my nail, a fmall opening prefented itfelf, from whence there iffued a kind of bloody and ferous difeharge. f thought at fird that this opening was not deep, but having- probed it, I had the chagrin to find, that all I had done was in vain, and that there was now a fiftula aimed as extenfive as when I firft undertook the cafe. This difeovery foon made me fuppofe, that the afiioti of the mufcles, at a time when the fear was yet recent, might poffibly have dedroyed the adhefions formed between the parts that anfwered to the channel of the old fidula. I propofed therefore to confine this adtion, and even to annihilate it in thole parts, till they fhould have acquired a folid coherence I 2 between