NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. 83 fame callus, which prevented me from carrying the arm back to its full degree of extenfion. I brought it however, on the firffc time of applying the bandage, as near to a ftraight line as I could, and maintained it in that pofition, by fupporting it dole to the fide of tiie body. In three days time, I took off the bandage, and found I could extend the arm much ftraighter than at fir ft ; I therefore gave the joint a very gentle degree of motion, for the fpace of a quarter of an hour, and then, ap- plied the bandage again. In this manner I proceeded every fecond or third day, renewing the bandage, and giving, each time, more and more motion to the joint, as the danger of difplacing the fractured parts diminiftied. At length I fucceeded in bringing the arm perfectly to the ftraight line, and when the young gentleman got well, which was in about fix weeks after the application of the bandage, he had as free a motion and ufe of the joint as ever. I am apt to think the cure, in thefe cafes, will be much more fpeedily performed, by adopting this method, than by waiting till the twenty-fifth day, before we begin moving the difeafed joint. (15) Spirituous liniments almoft faturated with foap, and united to the adive volatile alcaline fpirit, have always fucceeded beft with me, in preventing or curing dileafes of the joint. If camphor be united with them, it feems to make them infinitely more efficacious ; for camphor, befides the great volatility of its particles, feems to poftefs a peculiar fe- dative quality, which renders it a very proper application in all inflam- mations, and in all cafes where pain muft be mitigated. This method indeed, joined to fumigations, fomentations, and ftupes, with vinegar, feems, as Dr. Cheston has very well obferved in his Pathologigae Observations and Enquiries, to be the moft likely way to fucceed in the cure of thole dreadful diforders the knee joint is fubjed to, and which, when they are incipient, are termed white fwellings. One cir- cumftance may perhaps he added, which is, that fridion itfelf, gentle fridion 1 mean, may be as efficacious in bringing about the defined end, in thefe calcs, as any of the other methods. This indeed is a circum- ftance very liecellary to be attended to, for which reafion, I always di- red