io8 ON THE EFFECTS OF # almoft entirely upon the right leg; the motion, lofmg itfelf in the an- cle-joint, produced no apparent mifchief there; but the tibia, the fibres of which are naturally rather arched forwards, gave way, and was bro- ken juft below its middle. The upper end of the fradured bone pierced the integuments, and purfuing the oblique direction of its motion, fixed itfelf in the ground. This was a kind of counter-ftroke, the mechanifm of which is very evident, and for which it is ealy to point out the means of cure ; they are the fame as thofe that are proper for every compound fradure of the leg, though arifing from another caufe. Accordingly, without conlider- ing the mechanifm or caufe of the fradure, I only attended to the cir- cumftance of reducing it properly; this was done very exadly, after having previoufly fet the integuments free, which were much upon the ftretch. After this, the eighteen-tailed bandage was applied according to the rules of art; the patient was blooded, and reftrained to a proper diet. At the ufual period the fuppuration came on, which from the fourth to the eleventh day, was plentiful. The portion of the tibia that was bare, had no unfavourable afped ; the patient’s pulfe and counte- nance were good ; notwithftanding which he began to experience fome ihiverings ; on the eleventh day he grew delirious ; and on the twelfth, he had fome convulfive motions in the lower jaw ; a fever came on ; a change took place in the limb ; the fymptoms were all aggravated, and he died on the fourteenth day from his accident A ftudent of fixteen years of age, in leaping a ditch, fradured his leg by the fame mechanifm as the man who was the fubjed of the preceding obfervation. The bones had alfo pierced the (kin, and the youth being carried home to his parents, the fradure was very exadly reduced ; he was blooded, and confined to a proper diet. He was attended very a(- fiduoufly by one of my brethren in the profeflion, and myfelf; on the twelfth day, he was again feized with convulfive fpafms in the lower jaw, accompanied with an obfeure delirium ; and on the thirteenth, he died. He is one of the three patients fpoken of in the preceding note. The