So NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. 4 keeping Thcfc refearches into the mode by which different accidents can be produced, may be thought more curious than ufeful; but it muft be con- iklered, that, in many furgical diforders, great ftrefs is delervedly laid on the manner in which an injury happens, on the nature of the inftru- ment it was made with, and even on the fituation of the patient when he received it. In the prefent in ft a nee, thefe different accidents may fuggeft very different indications of cure. But this point cannot be difeufied here, for I would not anticipate my friend in bringing forward obfervations, which are peculiar to him, and which will fhortly come from himfelf*. (9) A fat perfon might therefore fubfift longer, with a lefs proportion of nourifhment, than a lean one ; for while there is any fat remaining in the cells of the cellular fubftance, it will neceflarily be ablbrbed, for the nutrition of the animal. (10) Vide Dr. Caverh ill's treatife on the gout, relative to the cure of that difeafe by motion. (11) The gentleman who is the fubjeft of this remark, is my intimate friend. Juft after this performance was printed, he had a pretty fmart attack of the difeafe, in his foot. He attributed the return of this com- plaint, to his having again negledted his ufual amufement of tennis, for two years paft. When he was l'eized with this fit, which, from its firft: violence, feemed as if it would laft fome time, I advifed him to rife con- ftantly from his feat, notwithftanding it put him to great pain, and by degrees, to move his foot as much as pofiible. I alio directed ioft and dry fridtion, to be ufed frequently in the day. By thefe means, and by portion of the aftragalus, feparated by the fradture of that bone. The patient, by proper care, afterwards recovered. An inflance fimilar to this happened to-a poor man’s leg, owing to the falling in of a Bone Quarry; by which accident it had been molt terribly Blattered, and a large fragment of theaHragalus forced into the fame fituation with the above. E. * This alludes to the Memoir on Counter-ftrokes, annexed to the prefent publication. E.