?8 ON THE EFFECTS OF tiie correfponding bony fur faces, as it condenl'es, does nothing more than unite the olecranon to t.he body of the ulna from whence it was lb- parated, and that without any viable increafe of length. In this cafe, tne callus would only form a trifling proj.fli n on the flue of the a 'i *u- lation, which might; however, coniine the motion of the joint, ). i: were not kept under. But if we give the joint a little motion t ■ \ u the tvventy-fmh day +) after the accident, before the callus be com; .. th hardened, and it we increafe this motion by degrees, this pr >’ give way, and in a few months the joint will recover all its m . ■ have been convinced by fome cafes of this kind in which 1 have fun the praflice here laid down. It may, however, be obferved, that after the olecranon has been united by the fkilful methods required in fractures of that bone, anv difficulty of motion that may exifl, may proceed cither from the mafs of the callus on the fide of the articulation, or from the projection of one of the pieces of the hone itfelf, by rcafon of the difficulty, not to fay the impoflibility, of keeping them on a level. But whether it be that thefe caufes afl feparatcly, or in combination, to reftrain the motion of the joint, we may readily conclude from what has been faid, that mo- tion is the only power that can be employed with advantage, in removing thefe inconveniences, and in reftoring the joint to its original freedom. This is effected, at length, by polifhing and wearing down, either the hardened callus itfelf, or the bony particles projecting in the cavity of the joint. The only circumftance to he attended to is, that in the lalt cafe, as the firft motions muft neceffiirily he more painful and difficult, it will he proper to he more careful in the employment of them, than in the other inftance. If motion he almofl: a certain remedy againfl an anchylofis threatening the joint in moft of the fractures incident to it, we are not to expert lefs effeCl from this remedy, when a rigidity is likely to enfue from a com- pound fra flu re, with fplintering of the hone, in the neighbourhood of an articulation. As the ftilfnefs of the joint, in this cafe, can only pro- ceed