US COUNTER-STROKES. It njuft net however be fuppofed, that a fall, or even a coniiderable fnock on the great trochanter, are always capable of producing a frac- ture of the neck of the thigh bone. In order to accomplifti this, it is ne- celiary that the direction of the (hock (hould coincide with the force ot the motion impreiTed upon the part, if this motion be made in the direc- tion of the fibres of the neck of the thigh bone ; otberwife, the head of this bone would fooner be crufhed againft its cavity, or the cavity itfelf would be broken, rather than the neck of the bone. But if the direction or fum total of the motion be l'uch, that the fraclure cannot be the refult, then the counter-ftroke produces another kind of injury, frequently more dangerous than the fraclure ; that is, the contufion of the joint, and par- ticularly the fqueezing or bruiting of fome of the parts that are contained in it. The round or inter-articular ligament, which, in progreffive mo- tion, is never fqueezed, may become fo in a fall, or in a (hock upon the great trochanter, when the direction of the motion tends forcibly to pufh the head of the femur immediately upon the part from whence this ligament proceeds. The fynovial glands, which form a confiderabie mafs in this joint, may alfo be roughly fqueezed, between that part of the cavity which they occupy, and the head of the bone driven with force againft them ; hence will arife accidents proportioned to tile nature of tjie tftjury done to the joint. In the firft inftance, pain, fvvelling and inflammation of the parts con- tained within the joint, always manifeft themfelves, accompanied with a difficulty of motion in the limb ; and the intenfenefs of the fymptoms is proportioned to the violence of the fnock, and to the greater or lefs irritable ftate of the patient. The pain is often acute in the beginning, and is attended with a total inability to move the limb. At other times, the pain is dull, fo as, at firft, fcarcely to engage the attention of pa- tients : they continue to walk, though with fome difficulty; yet ftill they keep upon their feet, and fometimes perfift in hard labour. This difference may arife from the nature of the parts bruifed. I (hould imagine, that when the ligament is bruifed, the pain and other fymptoms are more violent, and that the contrary happens when the fynovial glands have