117 COUNTER-STROKES. external part of the thigh, which feemed tending to fuppuration. A fever came on ; and when the abfcefs became evident, all the, openings and counter-openings were made, which the finufles the pus had formed, required; the matter which came out, had no kind of offenlive fmell : it brought away along with it fome fmall bony particles, and an oleaginous fluid floated on the furface; the incifions were lengthened as much as it was thought neceflary, fetons were palled, and during the courfe of the treatment, vulnerary and deterfive injections were tried, fuch as were imagined to be bell fuited to the Hate of the parts. At different intervals, fmall portions of bone came away, feparated either from the head of the thigh bone, or from the cavity of the joint, into which feveral of the linufles penetrated. A flow fever, and a marafmus, which is its ufual attendant, dellroyed the patient, between three and four months after her admiffion into the hofpital. Upon examining the feat of the difeafe, I found the capfular ligament almoll dellroyed, the round ligament totally con- fumed, the head- of the thigh bone carious in all its furface, and even to a confiderable depth in its center; the cavity of the joint was alfo attacked with caries throughout its whole extent ; and lallly, its cartilaginous border was completely dellroyed. The following is an inllance of mif- chiefs nearly limilar, produced by a fall upon the great trochanter. A man about forty years of age, having llipt down upon the great trochanter, felt a lharp pain which obliged him to flay at home for a few days ; but the pain being relieved, he chofe to return to his bufinefs, and walkabout, which however he could not do without pain, or without fome kind of difficulty, which he endeavoured to drive againll for about a fortnight; but the pain encrealing, he was obliged to take to his bed, and to apply for relief in the country where he was. All the means em- ployed during three months, were ineffe&ual ;; the upper, pollerior, lateral, and external part of the thigh was much fwoln ; and every mo- tion attempted to be given to this extremity, was very painful to him. When he was brought into the hofpital^ it was foon perceived that there was matter formed in the vicinity of the joint; fo that the furgeon formed a very unfavourable prognoftic of the cafe. Several inffances having Ihewn R him,