ii4 ON THE EFFECTS OF through the head of that bone ; and the os innominatum not bcimr able to o t O glide over that head, becaufe it prefles upon it perpendicularly, this gives us the reafon, why the neck of the thigh bone is more reedih bro- ken, under this circumftance than under the former. Suppol'c the quan- tity of motion to be abforbed were the fame in both inftances, a fall, or a violent blow on the great trochanter, may likewife, and in fact often doth produce this frafture. In the accident of falling on the feet or on the knees, the inferior extremity of the thigh bone being flopt, while the head of it is greatly prefled by the upper parts in motion, tends more and more to form the arch, and breaks the bone at its neck, where the arch is already begun. In the inftance of a fall on the great trochanter, on the contrary, the head of the bone refilling in its cavity, while the moll prominent part is ftricken externally, the intermediate piece, which is the neck, tends to refume the ftraight line, and is fractured by a mecha- nifim the reverfe of the former. But flill the accident is the fame in both cafes, and requires the fame treatment. The proper modes of re- ducing this kind of fracture, and thofe which can heft maintain the redu- ced pieces in their fituation, are then to be adopted. Thefe are fully dif- cufi'ed in Mr. Sabatier’s paper in the fourth volume of the Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Surgery, at Paris, I fhall only add to the wife precepts contained in this paper, that befides the junk placed on the inter- nal part of the thigh, it will be proper to place two other junks on the outfide, which extending from beyond the feet, proceed fir above the hips, palling one above, the other below the great trochanter. The up- \ per extremity of thefe junks being fafiened .by a bandage pafled round the body and the hips, the motions of the thigh are by this contrivance admirably well confined. By this additional precaution, accompanied with the mold abfolute reft, 1 have fuccceded in curing, with tolerable cafe, fiome fra&ures of the neck of the thigh bone, which have left only a very flight degree of lamenefs after them. It will be proper alfo to recol- lect, that this fracture may be complicated with contufion in the joint, or on the great trochanter; and that this complication requires attentions which I fhall have occafion to fpeak of hereafter. It