NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. know, how to direct the operations of nature. If the method here pro- pofed ihould hereafter prove generally fuccefsful, many limbs will pro- bably be prefer/ed, as will appear from that part of this efiay which treats on the effects of reft in furgical diforders. (14) The practice of ufing motion in fractures of the patella and ole- cranon, in order to prevent an anchylofis of the joint, which was almoft always the conlequence of the old method of treating thefe complaints, was firft: made ufe of, as I believe, by Mr. Watson, Surgeon to the Weft- minjler Hofpital, though I know not that he has ever laid any claim to this very great improvement in the art of Surgery, So far I am certain, that 1 have feen him follow this practice above five and twenty years ago. Let me however be permitted to obferve, that there is no neceffity for waiting till the twenty fifth day, in order to begin moving the joint. Mr. Watfon’s method, in fradure s of the patella, which I have always followed fince I have been in practice, is to bring the fra61 ured extremi- ties as near as poffible to each other, and to put on fuch a bandage as lhall only allow of a very obfeure degree of motion in the joint. But this oblcure motion he permits his patients to exert on the third or fourth day after the accident, by direding them to rife out of bed, and walk gently about the room, with crutches, a little every day, till the union is fufficiently firm to allow them to bear on the ground. From following this method, I never faw the leaft inconvenience; but, on the contrary, the motion of the joint became perfectly free, after the conlolidation of the fradure, even though there were a confiderable interval between the fractured extremities. Let me be allowed to adduce a cafe, in confirma- tion of the utility of this pradice. About two years ago, I attended the fiqn of Sir Arch. Ed , who had accidentally fractured the upper part of the olecranon ; a cafe which does not occur near fo often as the frac- ture of the patella, and that for obvious reafons. The fradure was at- tended with much lwelling and contufion, which prevented me from difeovering it till fome days after the accident, though I luipeded what had happened from the firfi:. When the lwelling and tenlion were re- moved, the bones, in this young habit, had already begun to fhoot out fomc