ON THE EFFECTS OF 40 onr liquids. Is it not by the gradual concretion of a juice originally fluid, that fhe unites in the moll lblid manner, the bony parts that have fuffered a folution of continuity ? Is not this defired effect chiefly brought about by reft, and doth not motion put the greateft impediment to it ? This circumftance is univerfally known, and not contradicted by any fa<ft ; but there are many other cafes, in which nature appears to have the lame views as in fractures, and in which the indications for reft are as precife as in thefe accidents. Thefe cafes, though not unfrequent, require a degree of attention and penetration to diftinguilh them, and it is by taking a review of them, that we fhall find reft to be frequently the moft certain method that art can furnifh to the furgeon who knows how to apply it. In my firft anatomical purfuits, I had feen fome fpines of crooked perfons, that prefen ted three or four dorfal vertebrae, the bodies of which were foldered and confounded together, without having paid any particular attention to this difeafe, and without having refle<5ted on the accidents it might have produced during its continuance; but a patient whom I faw at the Hofpital in 1766, fixed my obfervation upon this ob- ject. Having been violently beaten, at the age of thirteen, by his father, he felt, a few months after, a weaknefs in the fpine, attended with pain and a difficulty of keeping an upright pofture. He at firft walked with great difficulty, and afterwards could not walk without leaning upon a ftick, with his body bent forwards. Thefe firft lymp- toms which continued more than fix months, were followed by a fever accompanied with difficulty of breathing, and pain in the middle of the back, without any very apparent fwelling externally. Thefe fymptoms were relieved by bleeding and other remedies, and the patient leemed re- ftored to his former ftate ; but the difficulty of walking and of lupport- ing himfelf increafed by degrees, and, at length, a tumour was formed towards the lateral and pofterior part of the laft falfe ribs, the increafe of which was very flow, and made no change in the colour of the fkin. This tumour extending itfelf gained the region of the loins, and more than fix months after its appearance, the fkin became inflamed, grew thin, and 6 by