COUNTER. STROKES. 129 part of the os innominatum. There was an evident reparation between tbefe two bones, and the whole of the facro-iliac fymphyfis was attacked with caries. The laffc of the lumbar vertebrae was alfo carious at its lower part, and the fuppuration had in great mealure deftroyed the pfoas and iliacus internus mufcles. Tbefe mifchiefs were probably the refult of the divulfion, which the parts, defined to ftrengthen the union of the os facrum with the os innominatum on the right fide, had experienced, at the inftant of the fallCn); and this divulfion mull: undoubtedly have been produced according to the mechanifm above mentioned. With re- fpe£t to the fymptoms that fucceeded, they are the neceffary cenfequen- ces of the dull inflammation of thefe parts, and of the fubfequent fup- puration, and they might poffibly have been prevented, if fuitable means' of relief had been timely adminiftered,. A woman accidently jumped down a few fteps, a ffiort time after having been delivered. At the time, flie felt nothing more than a trifling pain in the region of the loins, which fome days after grew worfe, and was accompanied with a difficulty of walking, which increafed gradually till ffie could no longer fupport herfelf upon the left leg. The pain ffie buffered, though not very violent, was continual; and all thefe accidents were attributed to an overflow of the milk, the more readily, as the up- per part of the thigh and the hip on that fide began to increafe in iize. This woman, who had not been carefully attended to in the beginning, was brought to the hofpital, after having kept her bed upwards of three months at home; and at that time, a very large abfcefs appeared to be forming at the back part of the buttock, the matter of which had made numberlefs linufles, which proceeded from the pelvis by the ifchiatic notch. This abfcefs having been prop>erly opened, furniffied a large quantity of pus of tolerably good quality, and devoid of fmell; it foon however became thin, of a brown colour, and very foetid ; the fever, which had been more or lefs confiderable during the difeafe, increafed ; a delirium came on, and the patient lived only eighth days after the open- ing had been made. The examination of the body prefented the facrum, and the. os innominatum on the left fide, carious throughout the whole off