COUNTER-STROKES, 13I quent mifchiefs of a very ferious nature This affertion is not made without foundation ; for 1 have found, that many of thofe diforders which are called abfceffes of the pfoas mufcles, might with propriety be afcribed to the violent preflu re of the Jaft of the lumbar vertebrae upon the fa- crpm, &c. There is the greater reafon to imagine this, becaufe, in tliefe kinds of abfceffes, the fourth and fifth of the lumbar vertebrae are fome- times carious to a confiderable depth, as well as the anterior and upper part of the facrum ; this is at leaft what I have obferved in the bodies of feveral perfons who have died in confequence of fucli abfceffes. The fol- lowing- fad, which I have feleded from among many others of the fame nature that I have noticed, feems at leaft to confirm my conjedures upon this point. ‘ " '\ \ A jflrong and vigorous man, forty two years of age, having leapt, in Auguft 1765, from about eight feet high, felt at firft, nothing more than a pain of a very doubtful nature, in the region of the loins. This pain was even diflipated a little while after ; but it foon returned, and continued, though in a very moderate degree, upwards of a month. At the end of September, the pain increafed by very perceptible degrees ; and was much more confiderable, particularly when the patient was coming down flairs. The primary caufe of his complaint having efcaped his memory, he conceived it to be the rheumatifm ; but time, and the proper means of alleviating his pains, having proved ineffedual, he began to be uneafy. His diforder now grew worfe every day ; a difficulty, and afterwards an impoftibility of walking, came on ; and in February, 1766, a colledion of matter began to fhew itfelf at the anterior, internal, and upper part of the thigh. This abfcefs was opened in March, and in a fhort time the patient experienced the fame fate as the other two perfons, ”whofe cafes I have given an account of. The examination of the body, prefented-a caries of the upper and fore part of the facrum, and of the bodies of the two laftlumbar vertebra?. Does not the flow progrefs of the dileafe feem to announce, that the fuppuration and partial deftrudion of the pfoas, were, in this inftance, only fecondary effeds of the fuppuration and caries of the neighbouring bony parts ? Thefe difeafes may be alternately caufe and 3 effed ?: