MOTION AND REST. 31 much greater degree of motion than at any other age. The only non- rilhment nature has provided for him, muff be of an acefcent quality, fo that to keep the fibres in a Bate of fupplenefs favourable to their ex- tenfion, a confiderable degree of motion was required in this living ma- chine, in order to animalize, as it were, this kind of food, and to ex- tract from it the materials proper for the growth of the body. This fame motion was not lefs neceffary to fupply a degree of heat that fhould enable the child effectually to fupport the frefhnefs of the air with which he is furrounded. For thefe reafbns, the contractions of the heart and arteries in earlieft infancy are extremely frequent, and mufcular motion very quick. At this period then, as at every other time of life, there exifts no greater degree of motion than is requifite for the wants of the animal oeconomy ; and therefore this principle cannot be interrupted or exerted above its powers without producing an alteration in its effects. While the child draws from his mother’s bread: the food nature has al- lotted to him, while he freely enjoys the faculty of moving as much as his mufcular powers will allow, his fluids are neither altered by infpifla- tion nor diflolution, and he remains in health. But if for this whole- fome food we fubftitute one that is made with unfermented flour, and if this aliment, pernicious in itfelf, be alfo given to excefs, the child will not then enjoy a degree of motion fufficient to give the nutritive juices, extracted from fuch glutinous food, the elaborations neceffary to maintain health. Hence will at length refult a fault of infpiffation, the progrefs of which will be more rapid, as external or mufcular motion (hall have been more confined by fwaddling cloaths, and therefore lefs able to fecond the effects of that motion which is primary and effential to life. Under thefe circumftances nature feems indeed herfelf to have re~ courfe to motion in order to reftore the humours to their proper fluidity. Reftleflhefs, agitations, pain, and fever, which befpeak an increafe of motion, are fo many means Ihe often employs with fuccefs in children to refill the accident property of their fluids, and the infpiffation produ- ced by it. But thefe means are far from being always, effedlual ; there F .2 arc