7 5 NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. gan and the vital principle, would be intercepted. If, for inftance, one part of the inteftinal canal, or fome of the ladeal veflels, fhould be in- capable of fecreting and abforbing the chyle, this procefs may be carried on by the reft ; but if the thoraic duel be injured, the animal muft una- voidably perifti, becaufe no more nourifhment can be conveyed into the machine *. Accordingly, the thoracic dud is placed with fo much care, that it is almoft impoflible it fhould ever fuffer from external injury. But this is all, as was before obferved, the field of conjedure, in which, any man who wanders, muft unavoidably lofe himfelf. (5) Thefe tubercles feem to be entirely compofed of the medullary fubftance of the brain. This does not appear to agree with our author’s fyftem. (6) The lymphatic veflels, are not continuations of the arteries. They are a diftind fet of veffels, whofe origin is throughout the whole furface of the body, and from the furface of every cavity in it$ and the termination of which is in the thoracic dud. They conftitute the fyftem of abforbents throughout the animal ceconomy; and, as it appears from the late difeo- veries made concerning them, by anatomifts who have been, and fome of whom are happily ftill the light of the prefent age, their fundions are as important, and as furprizing, as thofe of any other veflels in the body. (7) We have a decifive proof of the poftibility of nutrition without the aid of the thoracic duel, in the cafe related in Vol. LXX of the Philofo- phical Tranfadions, by Dr. Cheston of Glocester. In this inftance the dud was rendered impervious by the accumulation of ofiinc matter within its cavity, fo as to render the paftage of any fluid from thence to the fubclavian vein, a matter of abfolute impofllbility. (8) As thefe two kinds of motion, deferibed by our author, are very diftind, fo do the effeds they each of them produce, feem to be. * In oppofition to this opinion, fee the cafe of an offified and impervious thoracic dud, related in Vol. LXX of the Philofophical Tranfadiom, by Dr. Cheston. E. The