COUNTER-STROKES. iij the os femoris upon the tibia would not be fufficient to produce the leafc mifchief at the part where thefe bones are connected. Notwith- ffanding this,'tHe knee joint is much expofed to the effects of counter- Ur okes ; but they are chiefly occaffoned by falls upon the knee, or blows upon the patella, Reafon admits the poffibilityof counter-ffrokes with bad conlequences, in this part, and facts confirm it. A lad, of thirteen or fourteen years of age, having received a blow with a wooden fhoe on the knee, while the leg was half bent, the pon- tuflon was fcarce felt externally, notwithflanding which, he experienced at tiie inffanf, a fharp pain, which feemed to come from the infide of the joint. This pain was loon relieved ; but he ftill continued to feel it in fome degree, and a tumour appeared, which increafed gradually, with a difficulty of walking. A fever came on, and the pain grew more violent about a month after the accident. It was at this period that the patient, who had hitherto received fcarce any affifl:ance,came into the Hofpital, and was under my care. A few days after, the fluctuation being evident in a certain extent of the tumour, it was opened, and a confiderable quantity of very fluid matter was difcharged. It was thought at firfc, that it came only from under the integuments ; but becoming more and more ferous afterwards, and the wound not healing, mifchief was fuf- peCted within the joint; and in older to determine the point, the bottom of the abfcefs was completely laid open ; upon which a fmall finus, lead- ing into the joint, manifelted itfelf. In vain, after this difcovery, were all pofiible means tried to cure this young man ; deterflve injections, a proper pofition of the limb, dilatation and opening of the capfular liga- ment, every thing proved unfuccefsful. It being no longer poffible to preferve the patient’s life without amputating the thigh, which his parents would not confent to, he died fome time after. The joint being opened, manifefted a very advanced caries of the articulating condyles of the leg and thigh, with an almoft total deftruction of the crucial liga- ments. The internal furface of the patella was affeCted only with a fu- Q2 perficial