23 MOTION AND REST. the year 1776, he has finee been attacked with a terrible jaundice, which has terminated in a herpes that may probably be hill difiipated by mo- tion and the labour he is beginning to refume. A young man, very fond of tennis, and who frequently indulged in this exercife, having quitted it almod entirely for feveral years, to fol- low a profeffion which was rather inconfident with this kind of difiipa- tion, was feized at the age of thirty tvith pretty Imart fits of the gout, and which returned at very fhort intervals. Thefe fits became more and more continued and painful, notwithfhuiding he obferved the mod; regular conduft and the drifted regimen. I advifed him to play again at tennis, to the leaving off of which I attributed the appearance of this difeafe at an age when one is ufually exempt from it. He contrived his bulinefs fo as to be able, three or four times a week, to allot two or three hours to this exercife. This fucceeded at fird in lengthening the intervals of the fits, and diminifhing their violence, and at lad made them totally difappear; for during fome years pad he has not felt any return, of them. It would be needlefs to alledge any other fafts to prove the necedity of motion in the cure of the gout ; the indances which edablifh the advantage of this method are too numerous and too well known to leave us any room to doubt of the propriety of employing it in this cafe bO „ The rheumatifm differs from the gout merely in the feat of the ob-> druftion, which takes place in the aponeurofes of the mufcles in their fheaths, and in the drainers of thofe membranes that furround and con- neft them. This obdruftion being, as in the gout, the effeft of an evident infpidation of the lymph that is conveyed through the channels of thefe parts, motion mud neceflarily be alfo the proper agent in this cafe. It mud therefore be employed to redore thefe inlpidated humours to the degree of fluidity required for their free circulation. Accordingly we fee, that if the perfons who are attacked with the rheumatifm, have refolution enough to bear the very fliarp pains always occadoned upon fil'd moving the part affefted, they foon contrive to get rid of them en- E 2 tirely