MOTION AND REST. 35 are attacked with it. Latitudes, languor, fwelling and hardnefs of the lower extremities, arc all fymptoms that characterize fuch a hate of the fluids ; and cold and damp weather, inactivity, and the ufe of grofs glutinous food, which are the diflant caufes of this difeafe, can fcarce produce any other kind of vice in the habit. Accordingly in fuch a fltuation, what are the curative intentions, and by what means are they to be fulfilled ? They confift evidently in exciting the tone of the folids, attenuating the fluids, and reftoring them to their ufual fluidity. Inter- nal motion, increafed by certain remedies that have the power of exciting it, and the exertion of external motion, feem to be the proper means of obtaining thefe ends. Now, if we conful.t facts, we (hall find that daily and moderate exer- cife, exerted fo as to bring on a gentle perforation, that the juice of plants which contain a volatile alcali already formed, that the Peruvian and Winter’s bark, that wine and antifcorbutic fyrups compofed of thefe plants and of alcaline falts, that blifters, in a word, are all remedies of remarkable efficacy in the firft and fecond flages of the fcurvy. It hath even been obferved that all the fymptoms that denote this difeafe, have not unfrequently difappeared after a fever continued for a few days. It is evident then that motion is the means employed by nature and by art in oppofing this difeafe ; but to that fate of infpiflation which is the character of the firft and fecond degree of the fcurvy, there frequently fucceeds a ftate of evident diffolution in all the fluids. In this cafe the curative intention and the means of accomplifhing it muft be adapted to the change the difeafe hath undergone. Plot antifcorbutic medicines, and blifters, fo efficacious in the firft and fecond ftages of the fcurvy, be- come prejudicial in this more advanced ftage, in which diffolution hath fucceeded to infpiflation ; and a fever is then the moft dangerous accident that can happen to the patient; for a dillolution carried to its utmoft height, and death which follows it, are the lpeedy confequences of fuch an event. The