COUNTER. STROKES. *53 tide itfelf, and occafion the fchirrus to degenerate into a cancer. Thus it is too, that a counter-ftroke, taken in the mod extenfive fenfe, may occafion pain in a womb that is fwelled and inclined to become fcirrhous, which may change the nature of this termination into a worfe. Even in inftances where this vifcus is not in a dileafed ftate, it may give rife to haemorrhages very difficult of cure. Are we not alfo to confider as the refult of the kind of caufe, the effects of which we are inveftigating, to thofe pains, which, after a fall, were felt in the abdomen of a woman, who, for fome years paid, had had a fchirrhus of one of the ovaries ; and muff we not attribute to the fame caufe, the fatal alteration which hap- pened, after a fimilar event, in a tumour of the fame fort in the liver r I have feen all thefe fatal accidents be the relult of imprudent leaps, or of falls upon the lower extremities, or the bones of the pelvis. It is not, however, always neceflary, that the effects of counter-ffrokes fhould fall on difeafed vilcera, in order to give rife to diforders which were not previoufly exifling there. I have feen a man who before enjoyed a good hate of health, void almoh pure blood through the urethra for feveral days together, and this on account of having fallen aftride, from almoft the height of two feet, upon a bar of iron. From that time he has always been fubjedl to nephritic colics, and to a frequency of voiding his urine, attended with an habitual difeharge of fmall gravel; diforders to which he was entire ftranger before his fall. From whence did this blood proceed ; from the bladder, or from the kidneys ? In what manner has this counter-fhoke been able to produce a haemorrhage in the urinary channels, and give rife to thofe habitual nephritic colics which torment the patient ? Thefe are queftions, the folution of which wmuld be as ufe- ful as fatisfactory ; but I am far from pretending to folve them. It appears to me, however, from the pain which the patient told me he plainly felt at the inftant of his fall, about the region of the loins, and from the dull pain which he complains of ever fince in that part, that the kidneys may be confidered as thofe of the urinary organs which fuffered moft by the commotion. The branches of the renal plexus of nerves being vio- lently