ON THE EFFECTS OT 104 part receiving the fhock, it feldom fuffers any injury from it, this joint hath iometimes, however, experienced milchiefs originating from iuch a caufe. A young man, in leaping from about eight feet high, having refted much more on the left, than on the right foot, felt, at the inftant, a pain, which though not violent, was fucceeded by a numbnefs, and a little difficulty in motion. The vivacity of youth made him pay little attention to thefe lymptoms which were at firft flight; but the pain, as well as the difficulty of motion afterwards increafing, and the foot being much fwelled about the joint, he applied to a furgeon, though not till about two months after the accident. Every mode of relief fiuppolcd to be beft adapted to the cafe was tried in vain for four months ; the mil- chief increafed. Several abfcefl'es were formed in the vicinity of the joint, which being opened, were found to communicate with the infide of the articular cavity, into which the probe might be eafily palled. The remedies mod proper for the patient in his prefent ftate, having been tried without effedl, and the fever increafing, it was refolved to amputate his leg. Upon examining the joint, I found the aftragalus, and the arti- culating furfaces of the bones of the lep, affected with caries. A few bleedings in the firft inftance, above all things reft, and the application of refolutive fpirituous topics to the part, would certainly have prevented thole lymptoms which led to the amputation of the limb ; thefe are the means at leaft, which I have always employed, with the greatefl fuccefs, in limilar cafes. It mu ft, however, be acknowledged, that fpirituous refolutive topics are not always proper. They fhould be laid afide whenever the pain is conliderable, and cataplafms made of the pulp of emollient plants fhould be fubflituted for them; and when the pain is afluaged, embrocations with the faturnine foap may be ufed, or comprefles dipt in water quickened with lea fait, and. with fait ammoniac, to which a little brandy being added, may be applied to the part. It is very unfrequent in leaps or falls on the feet, attended with bad fymp- toms, that the foot fhould have borne perpendicularly enough on the ground, to occafion thefe fymptoms always to arife from the effe&s of counter-