COUNTER-STROKES. 155 was reduced to fuch a ftate, that his ftomach would retain nothing but liquids; and thefe he» at length became unable to pals, tor they were thrown up again in large quantities, after having remained fometimes two or three days in the ftomach. The patient fell at length into a marafmus, and died in an aftonifhing ftate of emaciation. Upon opening the bodv, 1 found the liver very hard, without being much increafed in lize ; the pancreas was fchirrhous at that part of it which is next to the duo- denum ; and this inteftine, partaking of the difeafe of the pancreas, was almoft entirely obliterated ; the ftomach was exceedingly large, and the inteftines were fcarce bigger than thole of a chicken. Befides all the pernicious effeds of counter-ftrokes upon the principal vifcera of the abdomen, how frequently has not this kind of caufe given rife to a mortal commotion in the fpinal marrow ? There are few prac- titioners who cannot produce fome in (lance of a paify in the lower extre- mities, coming on in confequence of a fall, without either diilocation or fradure of the lumbar vertebrae. A girl of feven years of age, walking in a waxed room, having fallen backwards, was unable to rife again. Being lifted up and put to bed, (lie was examined ; and although none of the bones that compofe the fpine were found injured or difplaced, yet the lower extremities had loft all power of motion. The father having refilled to fuffer his child to be blooded in the firft inftance, the parts were only rubbed with warm cloths, and fumigated with various aromatics, while vulnerary remedies were internally adminiftered. Notwithftanding thefe affiftances, and bleeding, which was afterwards performed, the parts never recovered their power of motion ; and the girl lived onlv between two and three months after the fall. We could not obtain leave to open the body ; but it is very certain, that there was no appearance externally, which indicated any kind of injury done to the bones. With refpedt to the proper mode of treatment in the feveral cafes which we have been fpeaking of, it may be obferved, that the fymptoms which are or may be the refult of counter-ftrokes, the efFedfs of which are