2 a ON THE EFFECTS OF the efficacy of this method, that it would be almoft ufelefs to bring facq, in fupport of the truth of this albert ion ; yet as thefe carry with them complete conviflion, and as they are the touchftones of juft or falfe leafoning, I fhall produce fomc inftances, in which this mode of relief has been employed with a fucccfs fo pointed, that it is impoflible we fhould not diftinguifh the vicwrs of nature in the ufe of it0o). A man who had led a very a&ive life till he was thirty years of ager was, at that period, engaged in a fedentary employment. A few years after he felt fome flight attacks of the gout which feized him every fix months. Thefe became afterwards fo fharp and fo lafting, that at fifty years of age he was cruelly tormented with it. The fits lafted five or fix ' weeks, and returned three or four times in the year; neither had the remedies he had tried at different times procured him any l'enfible reliefs The feet, the wrifts, and the knees were the ordinary feats of the dif- eafe, which, at fifty five years of age, notwithftanding he led a very fober life, had reduced him to a very miferable ftate. Being ftronsjv perfuaded that the painful life he had experienced for twenty vears paft, was owing to the little exercife his employment admitted of, he purcha- fed at that time a garden out of town, fully determined to be his own gardener. 'As he delighted in flowers, he employed himfelf in the cul- tivation of them, and laid a plan of hard work for himfelf during leve- ral hours every day. Me kept his refolution, fo that for a number of years there were few days in which he was not obliged to change his linen feveral times in the day, in confequence of the profufe iweats lie. was thrown into by his ftrong and continued exercife. The firft year he felt a change which encouraged him to proceed ; and ^it the fecond year, found and quiet fleep, a conftant appetite, and an uncommon agility, the infeparable attendants on health, fucceeded to all thofe infirmities he had before experienced. He arrived to the age of fourfeore without bearing any marks of decrepitude, and ftill continued to work in his garden, even in winter time. But a fore leg, in confe- quence of a burn, having confined him for a long time to his room in the