85 NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. ufually ordered, to relieve thefe troublefome and difagreeable complaints, but I think, fufficient ft refs is not at the fame time laid upon the free ufe of thefe liniments, and the long continuance, as well as frequent repetition, of the friclion that is to be ufed with them. This I believe to be the reafon why thefe complaints generally laft fo long, and are fome- times never removed. The patient, wearied out with the inefficacy of means, which feem to fail merely from being improperly ufed, grows importunate with the furgeon, to try fomething elfe. The furgeon, un- willing to fee his art baffled, and not perhaps attending to the true reafon of it, frequently changes his beft methods for others infinitely lefs likely to fucceed ; but to which, report, and the experience of others, feem to have given a fandtion. The officioufnefs of idle people/who are continu- ally talking of the numberlefs fine cures they have feen effedted by goofe greafe, fteeping in bullocks’ paunches, and other fuch methods, often induce patients to try them, in preference to a better method, ordered by a Ikilful furgeon, which, had they perfevered in, or ufed it properly, would, in all probability, have had the defired effedt. Time alone fome- times gradually brings about the recovery of the parts. (17) Rotrou’s Solvent—The compofition of Rotrou’s folvent is given as follows : “ Crude antimony, mixed with three parts of nitre, “ and expofed to the fire in a crucible, lofes all its phlogifton by the “ adlion of the nitre. The mixture enters into a pafte like fufion, it is “ then poured on a marble, pulverifed, and kept in a bottle.” Baume s Manual of Chemiftry, p. 206 *. (18) Burnt part of the radius, taking care, however, that it fhall not prefs on the radial artery. The back of the hand, and the arm, above the bandage, in general, fvvell pretty much ; but, to prevent inflammation, the bandage fhould be conftantly moiftened with Goulard water or fome other topic. It fhould farther have been obferved, that the radius is frequently frac- tured in this cafe, but not always in the fame place. E. * In the account of Rotrou’s Medicines given by Astruc, at the end of his fourth book, is the following combination of nitre and antimony, under the name of Pulvis Liquans : N R Regull