COUNTER-STROKES. the broken part. The treatment proper for thefe 'accidents is too well known, to make it neceffary for me to enter into any details upon the hibjedh There is one obfervation, however, to be made ; which is, that in a fracture from a coimter-ftroke, the bone being broken at the inflan t that the force which occafons the fracture, is fuperior to the re-' finance of the bone, the reft of the motion may be fpent on other parts ; while there are cafes, where the fhock, being applied immediately to the part where the fracture happens, continues to exert all its a ft ion. upon the fpot itfelf, after having produced the principal injury we have been mentioning. This circumstance may deferve fome. confideration reflect- ing; the cure of thefe accidents. Although moft of the fractures" happening to the body of the thigh bone may be the effect of counter-ffrokes, they are not, however, always owing' to this caufe. But the fame cannot be laid of fractures which lrap- ° pen to the neck of this bone, fince thefe are never the confequence of a blow received immediately upon the part. The circumftances under which this frafture ufually occurs, demon ft rate fufficiently that it muft always be the effeft of a counter-feroke. It hath often been produced by a fall upon the great trochanter ; and it is fometimes occafioned by a fall on the feet, or on the knees. It may be obferved however, in this re- fpedl, that the fradture of the neck of the thigh bone will fcarcely happen, if the two knees, or the two feet, bear at once and equally u.pon the ground, even fuppofmg the body to be maintained in that flraight line which would make the whole weight of the upper parts prefs upon the heads of the thigh bones ; and this, iif, becaufe the effect being divided between the two thigh bones, would be leffened ; and adly, becaufe this effort being conveyed obliquely over each of the heads of thefe bones, the offa innominata may, in fome mealure, glide over them UN a circum- flance which will render the fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone more difficult. But when the weight of the body bears only upon one extremity, although the fall be not even from any great height, yet the motion of the upper parts being entirely fpent upon the neck of the thigh bone, which is in an oblique direction to the line of gravity paffing through