MOTION AND REST. 33 iquence of it ? Thefe two agents which fhe emplovs to complete her purpofcs, are they any thing more than the produce of an increafe of motion ? But the circumflance which evidently demonftrates the effi- cacy of that principle in the cure of this difeafe, is, that the remedies adapted to it are never more fuccefsful, than when they are combined with flrong and continued exertions of mufcular motion. This is fo true, that with the ufie alone of home common diflblvent, and a few purga- tives adminiftered now and then, joined to that of vigorous exercife taken in the country and in the open air, I have fucceeded in curing feveral young perfons affeded with fcrophulous tumours in the neck, feet, or fingers, lome of which, in the latter inflances, were attended with fif- tulous ulcers and caries of the bones. But thele means muft be con- tinued for a fufficient length of time, to enable the lymph to be reflored to its natural Aate of fluidity, and to be maintained in it ; and during the employment of them, we muff forbid the ufe of milk, and all kinds of acid food. The venereal virus alfo, which, from every circumflance, feems to b^ a coagulater of the lymph, and which bears fome analogy to the fcro- phul i, fince it frequently degenerates into this, appears to require no other remedy than a certain degree of motion excited and kept up for a fuffi- cient length of time to deflroy and annihilate the effefts of this poilon. Mercury ufed in frictions, the aquila alba, the panacea, the fublimate, and all the other preparations of this mineral internally taken, the fudo- rific woods, &c., do not exhibit in their effects any thing elfe but an in- creafed degree of motion throughout the machine. Nor can the volatile alkalis, propufcd by Mr. Perilhe^1), be ufed upon any other principle in the cure of this complaint. Nature feems not to proceed any otherwile in her efforts to deftrov the virus, and to prevent its being communicated to the general mafs, when it hath originally been confined to fome part. Inflammation, and pain that attends it, and fuppuration, which is the effeff, are the means fhe oppofes to the propagation of this terrible dif» cafe. I have