n NOTES BV THE TRANSLATOR. 6 gau to my friend’* public appearance in this country, had I altered his drefs, or pared off any of its embroidery. (3) The general opinion of anatomifts is, that the Pons Varolii is formed, by the union of the peduncles of the brain, with thole of the cerebellum. Thele peduncles feem evidently to be productions of the medullary fubftance of each of thefe parts. (4) If the grayifh or cineritious colour of the brain, be the diftin- guiftiing character of a fecretory organ, it (hould feem, that the whole cortical fubftance of the brain (hould be the glandular pare of it, or lit.:? part in which the fluid deftined to be conveyed by the medullary fub- ftance is fecreted. This, indeed, is generally fuppofeh to he the cale. Nature however feems to have placed the medullary fubftance more out of the reach of external injury, than the cineritious lubftance ; for the former is deeper feated, and the latter, (from whence it is alfo called cortical,) is every where placed on the outfide of the medullary fub- ftance, furrounding it on all fides, and feeming to protect it. Accord- ingly, in wounds of the brain, it is the cineritious fubftance which is .firft afteCted, and more of that is always neceflarily dtftroyed than of the medullary fubftance. This laft indeed has been confidered, by all wri- ters, as the moft important part of the brain, and that chiefly from its more internal pofition. On the contrary, it may be urged in favour of our author’s hypothefis, that the cortical fubftance of the brain, being only deflgned to fecrete thofc fluids that are to put our loco-motive pow- ers in a&ion, it was not neceftary that it ftiould be fo particular an objeft of nature's care. It (hould feem indeed, in general, that nature is more anxious to place the organ which conveys the fecreted fluid, out of the way of danger, than that in which the fecrction is performed. For the fecrction may ftiil be carried on in one part of that organ, though ano- ther part of it ftiould be difeafed, or even deftroyed. The in fiances of this are l’o common, that it is unneceftary to mention them. But if the channel which conveys the fluid be cut off, and the fluid fo fecreted thould be neceftary to life, the communication between the fecretory or-