ON THE EFFECTS OF 2 from thofe who (hall employ themfcllves on a fubjed: fo important, To treat it properly would require the united genius and knowledge of thofe learned men of which the fociety is compofed ;~how is it pofiible then, that one man alone, left to his own powers, can flatter himfelf, that on fo intricate a queftion, he (hall be able to fatisfy judges, before whom, moderate talents cannot appear without dread ? This humiliating re- flection would prevent me from entering the lifts, were I not encouraged by the confideration of their indulgence, the infeparable attendants on learning. In granting the prize to the moft Ikilful, they do not always defpife the labours of thofe whom an honeft confidence engages in the competition. Befides, if I have laboured unfuccefsfully, my excufe wiii be in the greatnefs of the talk, which, as it aftonifhes without difeoura- ging me, I will proceed to exert my utmoft efforts to fulfill. The effedts of motion in the animal oeconomy are evident, but motion itfelf is an effedl produced by its own caufes. sdn order therefore to give as much clearnefs to the difeuftion of this queftion as it is capable of, it feems to me of feme utility, to confider the fource from whence motion is derived.-—This may enable us to explain its effedh with fome precifion, in confequence of which the application of them to furgical difeafes, will become more methodical and certain. Such is the plan I propofe to follow; the propriety of which will, I hope, appear in the unfolding of it. It is to motion that the univerfe owes that life with which it is anima- ted. Man, the epitome of the univerfe, difcovers, in all the faculties which conftitute and charafterife him, the produce of an uniform and regular motion., fubordinate to powers, the admirable mechanifin of which will ever be unknown to us. But, without endeavouring to form conjedures concerning this mechanilm, we may reafonably prefume, that motion is the effedt of a general adtive principle, dilpeded throughout the univerfe, by that Being who created it. This principle is undoubt- edly material, and among the feveral fubftances that conftitute our globe, and the beings that adorn its furface, there ieems to be but one that po:« lefti. s