81 NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR. keeping him inaconfant copious perfpiration, the fit lafled no longer than, three or four days. After it went off, he had a large boil formed on the upper and back part of the thigh, which fuppurated very plentifully, and confined him for about a week longer. (12) In fupport of this opinion, it may be added, that all perfons ' fubjedl to the rheumatifm, are always more affedled with the pain, in the ' morning, at their firf riling, after they have remained for feven or eight hours in a compleat fate of ref. The pain is fcarcely fupportable at their firf getting out of bed, but, with theexercife of the day, and gently ufing the part to motion, it always grows more tolerable. From this it fhould appear, that the advantage of warmth, however great it may be in this difeafe, cannot be comparable to that of motion ; fince the fuperior warmth of the bed and of a fate of fleep, cannot compenfate for the want of motion. (13) Perhaps it is one of the greatef defiderata in furgery, to be able, either to affif nature in the formation of an anchylofis, or to form one artificially when nature does not feem to be difpoled to it. Let me be permitted to obferve here, that all the means which the ingenuity of burgeons has hitherto contrived, to effedt this purpofe, feem totally con- trary to the method laid down, in the courfe of this effay, for bringing it about, by abfolute ref and total inaction. It has been thought, indeed, that the exciting of inflammation, would be likely to procure adhefions between thefe folid parts. This reafoning has been founded on analogy, from confidering the effedts which inflammation frequently has on the flefhy parts. Injections, caufics, and fetons pafled through the joint, in cafes of difeafed articulations, have all been tried upon this principle. I muf, indeed, confefs, that I have tried them myfelf, and been them often tried by others, without fuccefs. If the author’s ideas of forming an anchylofis are juf, as we may conclude they are from the fadts he adduces hereafter in fupport of them, (fome of which I have been vvitnefs to,) it will appear, that all the methods before propofed for this purpofe, have rather impeded than forwarded it; fo difficult is it to know,