COUNTER.STPs.OKES. Hj then conveyed almoft entirely to the infide of the joint, where it may produce accidents proportioned to its violence. An acute pain, a {’welling more or lefs considerable, with inflammation, Subsequent abSceffies, and a caries of the bones, are Sometimes the effeCt of fucli a Shock. In July 1765, a man fell from a horfe, and pitched upon his right Shoulder ; the pain, which was at find rather acute, was relieved by two bleedings, and by refolutive applications ; but it was not completely removed ; Some particular motions were always painful, and the pain increafed upon change of weather; this the patient attributed to the rheumatifm, to which he had been fubjedt for many years, and which he imagined to be fixed upon this part. Eight months having elapfed in this Situation, he was Seized in March 1766, with a high fever, for which he was blooded four times. A week afterwards, the fever having Still continued with violence, he felt in the right Shoulder, a pain more considerable than ufual, with a difficulty of motion which he had not yet experienced, and a tumour appeared, which was considered as the crisis of the difeafe. The Swelling grew larger, and the pain, which increafed notwithstanding the application of anodines, did not Seem to give way, till it might be pre- sumed that a Suppuration was formed. The collection of matter not being, however, evident to the touch, anodine and Suppurating topics were Still continued for more than three weeks. The fluctuation being; then apparent, an abfcefs was opened on the lateral, outward, and upper part of the arm, which furniffied a very great quantity of well-condition- ed pus. It was thought that the patient was faved by this evacuation, becaufe this was fuppofed to be only a critical abfcefs ; but we were foon undeceived ; the fever did not give way, the abfcefs Still furniffied a great quantity of matter, and fome Small particles of bone were found at in- tervals in the difcharge. This unfortunate difcovery rendered the nature of the malady no longer doubtful, any more than the imminent dan- ger in which the patient was ; notwithstanding all the care that could be taken of him, he fell into a heCtic, which increafed by degrees, and destroyed him in three months after the opening of the abfcel's. Upon examining the Shoulder joint, I found the head of the os brachii, and that of the Scapula, affected with a deep caries. Might O