*.S8 ON THE EFFECTS OF funs whofe lungs were much affeXed with tubercles. It muff not, how- ever, be imagintd, that the lungs, though free from the dileafed ftate above-mentioned, fhould ftill be entirely Iheltered from the effects of counter-ftrokcs in calcs of leaps or falls upon the lower extremities. I have feen perfons, without any tendency to diforder in the lungs, fei/.ed with a {pitting of blood, after fuch tails, and incur all the dangers of an hcemoptoe. 1 have known others complain of a painful dragging fenia- tion between the two fhoulders, at the place where the lungs are more particularly attached to the fpinal column; which was certainly owing to a divulilon of the connexions that fix this rather weighty vifeus to thac part. I have alfo feen inftances of perfons, who having fallen upon their heels, from the height of about two or three feet only, have been feized with fainting fits to an extreme degree. This fymptom may pof- libly be confidered as the effect of a violent commotion, which the heart may have experienced at the time of the fhock. I am, however, more inclined to think, that thefe faintings, among which I have feen an in- ffance of their returning for three weeks together, every time that the trunk was thrown into a vertical pofition, are the effeX of a concuff'ion of the brain, a difeafe which is not the objeX of our prefent enquiry ; but the vifeera of the thorax may experience injurious conculfions, by other means befide that of a fall on the feet, or a leap from a certain height. Every blow received externally upon the parts which form the cavity, may occafion confiderable injuries in thefe vifeera, even when the bony compages that furrounds them, {hall remain uilhurt. In this cafe, the heart cannot always avoid the effeX s of luch counter-ftrokes. We know the kinds of mifehief which may happen, by this way, to thele important vifeera, and the curative means to be employed againff; them ; the lame may be faid of the contufion which the liver may re- ceive from a violent blow on the falfe ribs. Repeated bleedings, a ffriX diet, diluting liquors, and refolutive fpirituous applications, are almoft the only remedies to be ufed in thefe cafes. I have undoubtedly faid enough to prove the danger of very violent {hocks, even when they fall upon parts of a more compaX texture than the brain, and to explain the wifdom and forefight which nature has difplayed, ill arranging the contri- vances