ADVERTISEMENTS. ILIFFE & SON, 3, St. Bride St., Ludgate Circus, E.C. Bicycling for Ladies.—By Miss F. J. Erskine. Every lady s. d. cyclist should possess this handy little book. It gives full information on learning to ride, choice of machine, dress, worries and remedies, care of machine, touring, etc., etc. Paper covers (postage 2jd.) 0 “Cycling primers for the use of ladies are as common as flowers in May, and their frequency gives an idea of the popularity of wheeling with the fair sex. One of the latest additions to the library is Miss F. J. Erskine’s admirably written ‘ Bicycling for Ladies.’ It fulfils the first essentials of such a handbook in being at once thorough, simple, and practical from cover to cover. There is not a superfluous paragraph in it, and it covers the whole field of the recreation; dress, touring, care of the machine, remedies for common mishaps, etc., being all treated in turn. We thoroughly recommend the handbook, which is brightened by cuts."—Dundee Advertiser. Safety Cycling.—By G. D. Leechman. An exhaustive sum- mary of the art of cycling, with chapters on the choice of a machine, riding, touring, racing, construction, housing and care of machines, accessories, maps and road books, dress, institutions, points of law, cycling for ladies. Illustrated. Paper covers (postage 2d.) 1 o “Indispensable to cyclists and to those who are beginning to cycle.”—Vide Press Notices. The Cyclist Year Book for 1897.—Edited by Henry Sturmey. 2nd edition. Well illustrated. Boards (postage 4jd.) 2 0 “ Practically a directory to the cycle trade." SUMMARY OF CONTENTS. Resume of Cycling for 1896—England's Racing Men— Our Professionals—British Path Records, 1896—Road Records—Table of Pace per Hour and per Second—Table of Pace for a Three-lap Track—Results of the Amateur Championships of theN.C.U.—Winners of Irish Champion- ships since 1875 —National Champions — The Cycling Clubs of 1896—List of Cyclist Sections attached to Volunteer Regiments—Show Statistics for 1896—Times for Lamp-lighting—Cycle Company Returns—Cycle Com- panies Registered in 1896—Value of Cycle Exports—New