i BOOKS printed R. Baldwin, whether as a Daughter, Wife, Mother, Widow, or Miflrefs, of a Family, 3 Vols. i2mo. feventh Edition, Price gs. bound. < 10. The Paths of Virtue delineated ; or, The Hiftory in miniature of the celebrated Pamela, Clarissa Harlowe and Sir Charles Orandison, in the Compafs of a Pocket j Volume, neatly printed on fine Paper. 1 “ Great Bleflings ever wait on virtuous Deeds, “ And, though a late, a fure Reward fucceeds.” Being a very proper Prefent for Young Ladies and Gentlemen, n he fecond Edition. Price 2s. 6d. neatly bound. 11. Pamela ; or Virtue rewarded. In a Series of Familiar Letters, from a beautiful young Damfel to her Parents. 4 Vols. j 5th Edition. Price 12s. j 12. Clarissa; or. The Hiftory of a young Lady ; com- | prehending the moft important Concerns of Private Life, in S Vols. i2mo. Price il. 4s. 13. The Hiftory of Sir Charles Grandison; in a Series of Letters, in y Vols. i2mo. Price il. js, 14. Meditations and Contemplations. Containing, , Vol I. Meditations among the Tombs—Refledlions on a Flower Garden—And, a Defcant on Creation. Vol. II. Contemplations on the Night—Conternplations on the ftarry Heavens.—And, A winter Piece. By James Hervey, A. M. j Late Rector of Wefton Flavell, in Northamptonfliire. In twa 1 Vols. fmall Odtavo, neatly printed from a Copy corredted by the I Author a fhort I ime before his Dtceafe, and adorned with i two Frontil'picces engraved by Grignion. The 18th Edition. Price 6s. The fame in one V’^ol. i2mo. Price 3s. 15. Reliclous Courtship, beuig hiftorical Difeourfes on the Necefllty of marrying religious Hufoands and Wives only. As alfo. Of Hufbands and Wives being of the fame Opinions in | Religion with one another ; with an Appendix on the Necelftty ' of taking none but religious Servants, and a Propofal f«r the . ' better managing Servants, ilthEdit. i2mo. Price 3s. 16. A Familiar Explalanation of the Law of Wills and Codicils, and of the Law of Executors and Adminiftra- , tors. Alfo the Rules by which Eftates in general defeend, with the Diftribution of perfonal Property, when no Will is ' made. To which is added. Plain Inftrudlions for every Per- fon to make his own Will, wfth the neceflary Forms for that | Purpofe ; and the Expence of obtaining Probates, and Letters of Adminiftration. By T. E. Tomlins of the Inner Temple, V Barr^fter at Law. 2d Edit, correded, Price 2s. 6d. j > f