SHOOTING LUNCHEONS. 53 effect of the blazing sun, which enables you to appreciate the cool waters of the burn brattling down the hillside into the blue loch below—such a lunch knows no rival in this present vale of tears. The lunch under the road-oak in mild September comes next, but lo7igo intervallo. Lowest of all we place the bestial profusion of the hot lunch, in which a precious hour of December daylight is all too often wasted. The rough surroundings of the moor go far to prevent the possibility of a vulgarly elaborate lunch. This is sometimes allowed to mar the simplicity of partridge-shooting. But its natural place is amid the pomp and pageantry of a big day in the coverts. It is an evil at all times; but it is particularly evil where it is most frequently found, because the work of a day's covert-shooting is rarely hard enough to justify it. . . . An overgrown lunch is justly abhorred by all men who are really keen on sport) but, at the same time, it is possible to err in the opposite direction. When lunch is reduced to a small packet of sandwiches per head, accompanied by a request from the host to distribute any that may be over amongst the keepers, one is inclined to suspect that this is common stinginess trying to attitudinise as hardy simplicity. Simplicity, it is true, should be the soul of a shooting lunch; but then it should be simplicity in sufficient quantities. A good packet of sandwiches, a hard-boiled egg, and a hunk of cake will amply satisfy most men. But of course in a large party some allowances must be made for individual varieties of taste. Sandwiches are by far the most convenient form of food for the purpose; but then some men dishke them extremely. For the benefit of these, let there be slices of cold meat and a loaf. Gingerbread cake is much to be commended for cold weather, and cheese may be added if necessary. Hard-boiled eggs are always in high favour, and may legitimately find a place in the menu. Soups, fish, hashes, pastry, etc.—let all these be anathema viat-anatha. As for drink, whisky or claret is best; beer always interferes with walking, and sometimes with shooting; champagne should be inexorably banished. Just one glass of brown sherry is a seductive luxury, which perhaps may be condoned; then that precious half-pipe—and away once more. If the shooting is really good, as little time as possible should be wasted over Luncheon; if bad or moderate, in the winter, a plate of Mulligatawny or an Irish Stew is not to be despised.