THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 260 bone, and where there is no risk of exerting injurious pressure on important nerve-trunks. To protect the skin the tourniquet should be applied over a few layers of gauze. The first turns of the tourniquet must be rapidly and tightly applied to arrest completely the arterial flow. Unless this is done the veins only are obstructed and the limb becomes congested. In the inferior- extremity the best place to apply a tourniquet is the lower third of the thigh, and in the superior, the middle of the upper arm. This “ bloodless method ” of operating is subject to the objection that, owing to vaso-nrotor paralysis of the smaller vessels caused by the pressrrre of the touririquet, the bleeding which takes place after its removal is often profuse. When a tourniquet cannot conveniently be applied, or when its presence interferes with the carrying out of the operation—as, for examjrle, in amputations at the hip or shoulder—the hiemor- rhage may be corrtrolled by preliminary ligation of the main artery above the seat of operation, for instance, the external iliac or the subclavian. For such contingencies also a special clamp or forceps, such as that suggested by Lynn Thomas, may be employed. In the case of vessels which it is undesirable to occlude permanently, such as the carotids, the temporary applica- tion of a ligature or clamp is sometimes most useful. Many surgeons rely for the control of haemorrhage upon digital compression of the main vessel supplying the limb. The amount of blood lost immediately may be greater than by the “ bloodless method,” but the small vessels bleed much less, so that the total loss of blood is probably about equal in the two methods. In selecting a point at which to apply digital compression, it is essential that the vessel should be lying over and close to a bone which will furnish the necessary resistance. The following are the more important vessels which lend themselves to digital compression, and the directions in which the pressure should be applied. The common carotid is pressed backward and inward against the transverse process (carotid tubercle) of the sixth cervical vertebra; the temporal against the zygoma in front of the ear; and the facial against the lower jaw at the anterior edge of the masseter muscle. In the upper extremity, the subclavian is pressed against the first rib by making pressure downwards and backwards in the hollow above the clavicle ; the axillary and brachial by pressing against the shaft of the humerus. In the lower extremity, the femoral is controlled by pressing in a direction backward and slightly upward against the brim