460 INJUEIES OF SHOULDER AHD UPPER ARM. of serving as a lever with which to return the head to its socket. Reduction having been accomplished, the fracture is adjusted in the usual way, advantage of the open wound being taken, if necessary, to fix the fragments together by wires or pegs. The best position in which to fix the limb is that of abduction at a right angle. Massage and movement should be commenced early to prevent stiffness of the joint. When it is found impossible to reduce the dislocation, it is usually advisable to remove the upper fragment. The method of allowing the fracture to unite without re- ducing the dislocation, and then attempting reduction, usually results in rebreaking the bone, or else in failure to replace the head in the socket, and has nothing to recommend it. Old-standing Dislocations of the Shoulder.—It is impossible to lay down definite rules as to the date after which it is in- advisable to attempt reduction of an old-standing dislocation of the shoulder by manipulation. Experience of a hundred cases in Bruns’ clinic led Finckh to conclude that, provided there are no complications, reduction can generally be effected within four weeks of the accident; that within nine weeks the isrospect of succeeding is fairly good; but that beyond that time reduction is exceptional. The patient is anaesthetised, and all adhesions broken down by free, yet gentle movement of the limb. The appropriate manipulations for the particular dislocation are then carried out, care being taken that no undue force is employed. If these are not successful they should be repeated after an interval of two or three days, as it is frequently found that reduction is successfully effected on a second or third attempt. Should manipulative measures fail, it may be advisable to have recourse to operation if the age of the patient and his general health warrant it, and if the condition of the limb is interfering with his occupation, or involves serious disability. If operation is deemed advisable, a few days should be allowed to elapse to permit of the parts recovering from the effects of the manipulations. The joint is freely exposed, the capsule divided, the head of the bone freed and returned to the glenoid cavity. It is sometimes so difficult to replace the head of the bone that it is necessary to resect it and aim at the formation of a new joint, an operation which usually yields excellent results. Habitual or Recurrent Dislocation.—Cases are occasionally met with in which the shoulder-joint shows a marked tendency