672 DISEASES OF JOINTS. disorganised joint to be handled requires to be seen to be aj)preciated. The rapidity of the destructive changes in certain cases of tabes, and the entire absence of joint lesions in others, would favour the view that special parts of the spinal cord must be implicated in the former group in order to explain the arthro- pathies. In syringomyelia, joint affections (gliomatous arthropathies) are more frequent than in tabes, and they usually involve the upper extremity in correspondence with the seat of the spinal lesion, which usually affects the lower cervical and upi>er dorsal segments of the cord (Fig. 257). Except that the joint disease is seldom symmetrical, it closely resembles the arthropathy of tabes. The completeness of the analgesia of the articular structures and of the overlying soft parts, is well illustrated by the fact that in one case the patient himself was in the habit of letting out the fluid from his elbow with the aid of a pair of scissors, and that the joint has been painlessly excised without an anaesthetic. Suppuration, apart from superadded infection through a breach of the surface, does not occur in any of the forms of spinal arthropathy. Pathological fracture of one or other adjacent bones may occur. The pt'ognosis is uncertain, as the disease may become arrested or may go on to complete disorganisation of the joint. Treatment, apart from that of the nerve lesion underlying the arthropathy, is usually directed towards retarding the progress of the disease, by supporting and protecting the joint by means of bandages, splints, and special apparatus. In the lower extremity, the use of crutches may assist in taking the strain oflf the affected limb. When there is much distension of the joint, considerable relief may follow withdrawal of the fluid. The best possible result being rigid ankylosis in a good position, when only one joint is affected and when the cord lesion is such as will permit of the patient moving about, it may be advisable to bring this about artificially by arthrodesis or re- section. The wounds heal well, but the victims of tabes are unfavourable subjects for operative interference on account of their liability to intercurrent complications. When the limb is quite useless amputation may be the best course. In cerebral lesions attended with hemi})legia, joint affections, characterised by evanescent pain, redness, and swelling, are occasionally met with in the paralysed limbs. The secondary