THE NERVES. 346 wrist returns to the normal. The extensor muscles should be massaged and beaten with a vibrator. In the more severe forms associated with fracture of the humerus and attended with the reaction of degeneration, it is necessary to cut down upon the nerve and free it from the pressure of a fragment of bone or from callus or adhesions. If the nerve is torn across the ends must be sutured, and if there is a wide gap between them it may be necessary to resect a portion of the humerus to obtain apposition. If the central end cannot be found or if the gap is very great, the peripheral end may be grafted into the median nerve. Finally, in cases where the paralysis is permanent and in- curable, the disability may be relieved by the transplantation of tendons. The healthy flexor carpi ulnaris is divided, its central end drawn underneath the extensor of the same name, and grafted into the common extensor of the fingers. Similarly the flexor carpi radialis may be divided and drawn beneath the first two extensors of the thumb, and grafted into the tendon of the extensor longus pollicis. After this procedure the patient may recover the use of the thumb and fingers. The extensors of the wrist may be shortened, so as to place the hand in the position of dorsal flexion, and thus improve the attitude and grasp of the hand. The radial nerve suffers in lesions of the musculo-spiral of which it is a branch, and is itself liable to be divided in cuts about the wrist. The median nerve may be contused, compressed, or divided in the upper arm or at the bend of the elbow. It is, however, more frequently divided in transverse wounds immediately above the wrist. In the forearm it supplies the pronators, the flexors of the wrist and fingers (excepting the flexor carpi ulnaris and the ulnar half of the flexor profundus), and the flexor longus pollicis. In the hand it supplies the ojqjonens, the abductor and the outer head of the short flexor of the thumb, and the two radial lumbricals, so that wherever the nerve is injured these muscles ar-e apt to be affected. The thumb remains in an extended and abducted position and cannot be opposed to the tips of the fingers, and there is wasting of the ball of the thumb. In those cases in which the nerve is injured above the origin of the branches to the muscles in the forearm, the hand cannot be pronated, and the wrist cannot be hexed except to the ulnar side. The patient is unable to hex the second phalanges on the hrst or to hex the distal phalanx of the index and middle hngers. He can, however, hex at the knuckles by the action of the interossei. The sensory