DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 535 any time-limit for attempting reduction in old-standing di.sloca- tions of the hip. Manipulation may succeed in cases of some months’ standing, and may fail when the bone has only been out a few weeks. In certain cases, even after reduction has been effected, there is a marked tendency to redisplacement. In any case, the attempt does good by breaking down adhesions, provided no undue force is employed such as may damage the sciatic nerve or vessels, or fracture the neck of the femur. If manipulation fails, and if the deformity is great and the useful- ness of the limb seriously impaired, an attempt may l)e made to effect reduction l)y operation, the head of the bone being excised if necessary; but if the head has formed a new socket for itself and there is a fairly useful joint, the condition should be left alone. Congenital Dislocations of the Ilip are described with deformities. Sprains of the hip are comparatively rare. They result from milder degrees of the .same forms of violence as pro- duce dislocation. The ligaments are stretched or partially torn, and there is effusion of fluid into the joint. Pressure over the joint elicits tenderness; and the limb assumes the position of slight flexion, abduction and external rotation, but there is no alteration in the length of the limb. Such injuries, unless carefully treated, are apt to be followed by the formation of adhesions resulting in stiffness of the joint. Contusions in this region, on the other hand, are not un- common. They are produced by a fall on the trochanter such as may cause fracture of the neck of the femur, and they give rise to symptoms which simulate to some extent those of fracture. The limb lies in the position of slight Hexion, but the bony points retain their normal relationship to one another, and there is no actual shortening. The swelling and tenderness often prevent a thorough examination being made, and when any doubt remains as to the diagnosis, the patient should be kept in bed till the doubt is cleared up. If a fracture has occurred it will reveal itself in the course of a few days by the occurrence of shortening and other evidences of fracture. In elderly patients, contusions of the hip may be followed by changes in the joint of the nature of arthritis deformans; and it has been stated, although proof is wanting, that absorption of the neck of the femur sometimes occurs. These injuries are treated by rest in bed, massage, and the other measures already described as applicable to sprains and contusions.