472 CHAPTER XXIIL INJURIES IN THE REGION OF THE ELBOW AND FOREARM. Surgical Anatomy — Examination of injured elbow — Fractures of Lower End of Humerus : Supra-condylar ; Inter-condylar; Sexiara- tion of epiphysis ; Fracture of either condyle alone ; Fracture of either epicondyle alone—Fractures of Upper End of Ulna : Olecranon; Goronoid—Fractures of Upper End of Radius : Head; Neck; Separation of epiphysis—Dislocations of Elbow: Both hones; Ulna alone; Radius alone—Fractures of Forearm: Both hones; Radius alone ; Ulna alone. The injuries met with in the region of the elbow-joint include the various fractures of the lower end of the humerus, and upper ends of the bones of the forearm, including the olecranon process j and dislocations and sprains of the elbow-joint. The differential diagnosis is often exceedingly difficult, on account of the great swelling and tension which rapidly supervene on most of these injuries, the vpain caused by manipulating the parts, and the difficulty of determining whether movement is taking place at the joint or near it. Surgical Anatomy.—The internal ejiicondyle of the humerus is more readily felt through the skin than the external. Tlie two epicondyles are practically on the same level, and a line joining them behind passes just above the tip of the olecranon j)rocess when the arm is fully extended. On flexing the joint, the ti2i of the olecranon gradually passes to the distal side of this line, and when the joint is fully flexed the tip of the olecranon is found to have passed through half a circle. The head of the radius can be felt to rotate in the dimple on the back of the elbow just below the external condyle. The coronoid process may be detected on making deep jiressure in the hollow in front of the joint. The upper arm forms with the fully extended and supinated forearm an obtuse angle, opening outward—the “ carrying angle.” This angle is usually more marked in women, in harmony with the greater width of the female pelvis. The ulnar nerve lies in the hollow between the olecranon and the internal condyle, and the median nerve glasses over