336 THE NERVES. prevent them again becoming adherent. When this is difficult, a portion may be resected from each of the nerve-trunks at a higher level, and if this fails to give relief, a fresh amputation may be performed. When there is agonising pain dependent upon an ascending neuritis, it may be necessary to resect the posterior nerve roots within the spinal canal. Subcutaneous Injuries of Nerves.—Several varieties of sub- cutaneous injuries of nerves are met with. One of the best- known examples is the compression paralysis of the nerves of the upper arm which results from sleeping with the arm resting on the back of a chair or the edge of a table—the so-called “ drunkard’s palsy ” ; and from the pressure of a crutch in the axilla—“ crutch paralysis.” A similar form of paralysis is met with from the pressure of a tourniquet, from tight bandages or splints, from the pressure exerted by a dislocated bone or by excessive callus, and from hyperextension of the arm during anaesthesia. In all these forms there is impaired sensation, rarely amount- ing to anaesthesia, marked muscular wasting, and diminution or loss of voluntary motor power, while;—and this is a point of great importance—the normal electrical reactions are preserved. There may also develop trophic changes sirch as blisters, super- ficial ulcers, and clubbing of the tips of the fingers. The pro- gnosis is usually favourable, as spontaneous recovery is the rule within from one to three months. In some cases, however, neuritis supervenes, the muscles degenerate, the electrical re- actions are altered, and recovery may be retarded or may fail to take place. Injuries which act abruptly or instantaneously are illustrated in the crushing of a nerve by the sudden displacement of a sharp- edged fragment of bone, as may occur in comminuted fractures of the humerus. The symptoms include perversion or loss of sensation, motor paralysis, and atrophy of muscles, which show the reaction of degeneration from the eighth day onwards. The presence of the reaction of degeneration influences both the prognosis and the treatment, for it implies a nerve lesion which is probably incapable of spontaneous recovery, and which can only be remedied by operation. The treatment varies with the cause and nature of the lesion. When, for example, a displaced bone or a mass of callus is pressing upon the nerve, steps must be taken to relieve the pressure, by operation if necessary. When there is reason to believe that the nerve is severely crushed or torn across, it should be exposed by incision, and, after removal of the damaged