410 INJURIES OF BONES. it is necessary to take two views of the limb—one in the sagittal and the other in the coronal plane. By the use of the fluorescent screen, the best positions from which to obtain a clear impression of the fracture may be determined before the radiograms are taken. Imperfect technique and faulty interpretation of the pictures obtained lead to certain fallacies. In young subjects, for example, epiphysial lines may be mistaken for fractures, or the ossifying centres of epiphyses for separated fragments of bone. The os trigonum tarsi has been mistaken for a fracture of the astragalus. In the vicinity of joints the bones may be crossed by pale bands, due to the rays traversing the cavity of the joint. In this way fracture of the olecranon or of the clavicle may be simulated. The neck of the femur may appear to be fractured if a foreshortened view be taken. It is possible, on the other hand, to overlook a fracture—for example, if there is no displacement, or if the line of fracture is crossed by the shadow of an adjacent bone. In deejjly placed bones such as those about the hip, or in bones related to dense, solid viscera—for example, ribs, sternum, or vertebrm—it is sometimes difficult to obtain conclusive evidence of fracture in a radiogram. It is to be borne in mind also, and especially from the medico- legal point of view, that, as early callus does not cast a shadow in a radiogram, the appearance of fracture may persist long after union has taken place. The disturbed perspective produced by the divergence of the rays may cause the fragments of a united fracture to appear displaced, although in reality they are in good position. If the limb and the plate are not parallel the bones may appear to be distorted, and errors in diagnosis may in this way arise. As most of the remaining signs are common to all the lesions from which fractures have to be distinguished, their diagnostic value must be very carefully weighed. Interference with Function.—As a rule, a broken bone is in- capable of performing its normal function as a lever or weight- bearer ; but when a fracture is incomplete, when the fragments are impacted, or when only one of two parallel bones is broken, this does not necessarily follow. It is no uncommon experience to find a patient walk into hospital with an impacted fracture of the neck of the femur or a complete fracture of the fibula; or to be able to pronate and supinate the forearm in the presence of a greenstick fracture of the radius or with a complete fracture of the ulna.