16 CONDITIONS INTERFERING WITH REPAIR. being rendered immune by gradually increasing doses of this toxin, is bled aseptically, and the serum after separating is ready for use, 0'5 per cent, of carbolic acid being added to prevent decomposition. (4) By experiments on animals the immunising value (“ unit of immunity ”) of this serum is then obtained, and the clinical dose determined. Clinical Use of Antitoxic Sera.—Each antitoxic serum has its ovm appropriate dose depending upon the value of its unit of immunity. Every precaution must be taken to prevent organ- ismal contamination of the serum or of the apparatus by means of which it is injected. Syringes are so made that they can be sterilised by boiling. The best situations for injection are under the skin of the abdomen, the thorax, or the buttock, and the skin at the seat of puncture should be purified. If the bulk of the full dose is large, it should be divided and injected into different parts of the body, not more than 20 c.c. being injected at one place. Bacteriological Diagnosis.—For purposes of diagnosis various facts regarding the morphology and life-history of bacteria are made use of. Thus by means of the microscope the general histological characters may be studied after staining with certain aniline dyes. Again, different organisms vary in their behaviour on such artificial culture-media as gelatin, agar- agar, bouillon, potato, etc., with regard to the rapidity and direction of growth; the colour and smell of the growing colonies; and the effect these have upon the medium in which they grow, some species evolving gases, others changing the chemical reaction of the medium. Variations also occur de- pending on the temperature at which the orgarusms are incubated, the jJresence or absence of oxygen, and other like conditions. Lastly, by inoculation in animals of different species and in different tissues, information valuable for the purpose of diagnosis may be obtained. Pyogenic Bacteria. From the point of view of the surgeon the most import- ant varieties of micro-organisms are those which cause in- flammation and suppuration — the pyogenic bacteria,. This group includes a great many species, and these are so widely distributed that they are to be met with under all conditions of everyday life. The nature of the inflammatory and suppurative processes will be considered in detail later; suffice it here to say that