550 INJUEIES IN REGION OF KNEE AND LEG. to carry out movements of flexion to a considerable extent without increasing the pain, any attempt to extend the joint completely is extremely painful. Tenderness may be elicited on making pressure over the inner edge of the ligamentum patellae in the groove between the femur and tibia. Considerable effusion rapidly takes place into the synovial cavity. As a rule little is to be learned by palpation. The condition is to be diagnosed from sprain of the joint, particularly from that of the internal lateral ligament which it most resembles. Treatment.—To reduce the displacement the patient is placed on a couch and, after the knee is fully flexed, the leg is rotated outward and abducted, to separate the internal condyle from the tibia, and while the rotation and abduction are maintained the leg is quickly extended. The return of the cartilage to its place is sometimes attended with a distinct snap, but in other cases reduction is only recognised to have taken place by the fact that the joint can be fully extended without causing the patient pain. Alternate flexion and extension combined with rotatory movements is sometimes successful. Several attempts are often necessary, and a general anaesthetic may be called for. After reduction the limb is fixed with sand-bags, and massage and movement employed, great care being taken that no rotatory movement is permitted at the knee. Prolonged rest and sup- port are necessary to allow of repair of the torn ligaments. When the patient begins to use the joint he must be careful to avoid movements which throw strain on the weakened liga- ments. In a considerable proportion of cases so treated no recurrence takes place, and in the course of a month or two the patient is able to resume an active life with a perfectly useful joint. Recurrent Displacement.—In cases of recurrent displacement, each attack is accompanied by symptoms similar in kind to those above described, but less severe, and the patient usually learns to carry out some manipulation by which he is able to return the cartilage into position. He seeks advice with a view to having something done to prevent displacement occurring, and to restore the stability of the joint, which, in many cases, is impaired, preventing him following his occupation. The symptoms closely resemble those of a pedunculated “ loose body,” and it is often difficult to differentiate between them. In the case of a body free in the cavity of the joint, the site of the pain may vary in different attacks, and the body can sometimes be palpated. Attempts may be made to retain the cartilage in position by