INJURIES OF JOINTS. 432 deeply placed joint.s discoloration may not appear on the surface for some days, especially if the violence has been indirect. The joint is kept in the flexed position, and is painful only when moved. Considerable effusion of blood into a joint may follow the most trivial injury in haemophilic subjects. The prognosis, as a rule, is good, although a slight degree of serous effusion into the joint {hydrarthrosis) often persists for some time. Tuberculous affections of joints not infrequently date from a contusion. Treatment.—When seen immediately after the accident, effusion may be prevented by applying firm pressure with an elastic bandage over a thick layer of cotton wool. After a few hours, massage and movement of the joint are commenced, and systematically and persistently employed. When effusion has already taken place and there is so much fluid in the joint as to interfere with movement, absorption may be promoted by withdrawing some of the fluid by means of an exploring needle, after which massage and movement are begun. Prolonged rest is to be avoided, as it results in stiffness and impaired or delayed usefulness. Wounds of Joints.—The imjjortance of accidental wounds of joints—such, for example, as result from a stab with a penknife or the point of a railing—lies in the fact that they are liable to cause septic infection of the synovial cavity. The inflammation may affect only the synovial membrane {septic synovitis); or may spread to all the elements of the joint {septic arthritis). These conditions are described with diseases of joints. Penetration of the joint may sometimes be recognised by the escape of synovia from the wound, or by the synovial membrane or articular cartilage being exposed. When doubt exists, the wound should be enlarged. The use of the probe is to be avoided, on account of the risk of carrying septic material from the track of the wound into the cavity of the joint. Penetrating wounds of joints are treated on the same lines as those associated with compound fractures. After having been disinfected, the wound should be drained or treated by the open method, and as soon as it is healed, massage and movement must be employed to prevent the formation of adhesions. Gun-shot injuries of joints have already been described (p. 228). Sprains. — A sprain results from a stretching or twisting form of violence which causes the joint to move beyond its physiological limits, or in some direction for which it is not