319 DISEASES OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. especially in cases of streptococcal throat infections, the supi)ura- tion rai)idly involves the surrounding cellular tissue, and the clinical features are those of an acute cellulitis and deeply seated abscess. When this is incised the necrosed glands may be found lying in the pus, and on bacteriological examination are found to be swarming with streptococci. In suppuration of the axillary glands, the abscess may be quite superficial, or it may be deeply placed beneath the strong fascia andi pectoral muscles, according to the group of glands involved. Those in the groin resulting from gonorrhoea and soft chancre are described under these heads. The diagnods of septic lymphadenitis is usually easy. The indojent enlargements are not always to be distinguished, how- ever, from commencing tuberculous disease, except by the fact that they usually disappear on removing the peripheral source of irritation. Treatment.—The original source of infection having been re- moved, the treatment apidicable to the glands varies according to the nature and degree of the inflammation. Rest and soothing applications are indicated in the early stage of inflammation. Glycerine and belladonna, or the oleate of mercury ointment, is useful in indolent enlargements ; lead and opium or carbolic ! fomentations in the more acute forms of lymphadenitis. If I suppuration has taken place and is confined to the glands, as in ; the groin, each focus should be attacked with the knife, spoon, j and pure carbolic acid, or the whole chain of glands may be excised. If, on the other hand, there is a large peri-glandular abscess, as is often the case in the neck and axilla, this should be opened—preferably by Hilton’s method. The opening should be enlarged to admit the Anger and allow of the removal of any glands which have not completely broken down, and which probably contain other foci of suppuration. If the suppurative bubo associated with soft chancre is simply incised, the tendency is towards the formation of an inflamed ulcer resembling the original sore. It is better, therefore, to excise the gland along ' with the infiltrated and undermined skin, unless there is already ‘ a considerable abscess, in which case it should be incised, scraped, painted with pure carbolic acid, and packed with iodoform worsted. Tuberculous Disease of Glands.—This is a disease of great I frequency and importance. The tubercle bacilli usually gain access to the glands through the afferent lymphatic vessels, which I convey them from some lesion of the mucous surface within the area which they drain. It is possible, however, that the