430 CHAPTER XXL INJUEIES OF JOINTS. Surgical Anatomy—Injuries: Contusions; Wounds; Sprains; Dis- locations—Traumatic Dislocations: Causes; Varieties; Clinical features; Treatment — Compound dislocations—Old-standing dis- locations. Surgical Anatomy.—The function of a joint is to permit of the movement of one bone upon another. The articular surfaces of the bones are covered with a thin layer of hyaline cartilage, and are re- tained in apposition by the tension of ligaments and of the muscles surrounding the joint. The capsular ligament encloses the articular ends of tlie bones, and is directly continuous with the periosteum. The capsule is lined by synovial membrane, which at the line of attachment of the ligament is reflected on to the bone as far as the articular cartilage. The synovial membrane invests intra-articular ligaments, and is pro- jected into the interior of the joint in the form of loose folds wherever the articulating surfaces are not in immediate contact. The surface of the membrane is covered with minute processes or villi, which in diseased conditions may become hypertrophied. The synovia owes its lubricating property to mucin, derived from the solution of the endothelial cells on the free surface of the membrane. The opposing surfaces of a joint being always in accurate contact, the so-called cavity is only a potential one. If fluid is poured out into the joint, the synovial membrane and the capsule are put upon the stretch, causing discomfort or actual pain, which is partly relieved by slightly flexing the joint. If the distension continues, the ligaments become elongated and the joint unstable. The common origin of bone, cartilage, periosteum, and synovial membrane from one jiarent tissue of the embryo, accounts for the readi- ness with which any one of these tissnes may be converted into another under traumatic or pathological influences. Joints derive an abundant blood-snpply through the articular arteries. The lym2')hatics, which take origin in the synovial membrane, jiass to efferent vessels which rnn in the intermnscular and other connective- tissue jilanes of the limb. The nerve-sujiply is derived chiefly from the nerves distributed to the muscles acting on the joint and to the skin over it. Sources of Joint Strength.—The cajiacity of a joint to resist disloca- tion depends upon (1) the shajie of its osseous elements ; (2) the strength