435 TRAUMATIC DISLOCATIONS. disi)laced by muscular action alone. Some acrobats are able to dislocate certain joints by voluntary contraction of their muscles. Age and Sex.—Dislocations occur most frequently in males and dtiring adult life, doubtless on account of the nature of their occupations and recreations. In children the epiphyses are separated, and in old people the bones are broken, by such forms of violence as cause dislocation in adults. iluscular debility and undue laxness of ligaments resulting from disease or previous dislocation are also predisposing factors. Clinical Varieties.—The separation between the bones may be complete or partial. When partial, portions of the articular surfaces remain in apposition, and the injury is known as a suh-hixation. Like fractures, dislocations may be simp>le or compomid, the latter being specially dangerous on account of the risk of septic infection. When seen within a few days of its occurrence, a dislocation is looked upon as recent; but when several weeks or months have elapsed, and the rent in the cap-sule has healed round the neck of the bone, it is spoken of as an old-standing dislocation. The latter will be described on p. 438. Dislocations, like fractures, may be complicated by injuries to large blood-vessels or nerve trunks, by injuries to internal organs, or by a wound of the soft tissues which does not com- municate with the joint. Further, a fracture may coexist with a dislocation. Clinical Features.—The most characteristic signs of disloca- tion are preternatural rigidity, or want of movement where movement should naturally take place, following immediately on an injury; and deformity, the part being “out of drawing” as compared with the uninjured side (Fig. 115). The deformity is characteristic and is common to all examples of the same dis- location. The bony landmarks lose their normal relationship to one another. The relationship of the long axis of the bone to the socket is also abnormal. Although any of the subsidiary signs may occur in le.sions other than dislocations, due weight must be given to them in making a diagno.sis. Loss of function is complete as a rule. Pain is much more intense than in fracture, msually because the displaced bone presses upon nerve trunks, and from the same cause there is often numbness and })artial ])aralysis of the limb beyond. Swelling of the soft parts due to effused Idood is u.sually less marked in dislocation than in fracture, but is often sufficiently great to interfere with diagnostic manipulations.