418 INJURIES OF BONES. or to the interposition of soft tissues between the broken ends. Under such circumstances it may be necessary to expose the fracture by operation, and after reducing it, to fix the fragments together by wires, pegs, staples, or screws. Operative inter- ference is usually delayed till about a week after the injury, by which time the effect of other measures will have been estimated, and accurate information obtained by means of the X-rays regarding the nature of the lesion and the position of the fragments. Such operations, however, are not to be undertaken lightly, as they are difficult, and if septic infection takes place the results may be disastrous. Consolidation of the fragments takes place more slowly when the ends have been brought together by operation than in subcutaneous fractures. Compound Fractures. The characteristic feature of a compound fracture is the existence of an open wound leading down to the break in the bone, and it is the presence of the wound which, by providing a means of entrance for bacteria, dominates the whole aspect of the case. The wound may vary in size from a mere puncture to an extensive ragged tear of all the soft parts. A fracture may be rendered compound from without, the soft parts being damaged by the object which breaks the bone—as, for example, a cart wheel, a piece of machinery, or a bullet. Sloughing of soft parts resulting from the pressure of im- properly applied splints also, may convert a simple into a compound fracture. On the other hand, a simple fracture may be rendered compound from ivithin—for example, a sharp fragment of bone may penetrate the skin, or the skin may slough as a result of extreme tension from effused blood. As a rule it is easy to recognise that the fracture is com- pound, as the bone can either be seen or felt through the wound. When any doubt exists as to whether or not a wound com- municates with the bone, it is safer to enlarge it by incision than to assume that the fracture is simple. The depends on the success which attends the efforts to make and to keep the wound aseptic, as well as on the extent of damage to the tissues. When sepsis ensues, frag- ments of bone may undergo necrosis and lead to the formation of sinuses, and union is usually attended with excessive and irregular callus formation (Fig. 104). Treatment. — The leading indication is to ensure asepsis of the wound. Even in the case of small punctured wounds