667 ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS. changes in the weather and by rest. The roughness due to fibril- lation of the articular cartilages causes coarse friction on moving the joint. It may be months or even years before the lipping and other hypertrophic changes in the ends of the bones are recognisable, and before the joint assumes the deformed features which have given the disease its name. The capsular ligament, except in cases of hydrops, becomes the seat of connective-tissue overgrowth, and tends to become contracted and rigid. Intra-articular ligaments, such as the ligamentum teres in the hip, are usually worn away and disap- pear. The surrounding muscles become atrophied, tendons become adherent to their sheaths and may become ossified, and nerves may be involved by the cicatricial changes in the tissues surrounding them. The series of morbid changes, of which the above is a brief summary, may be described as presenting a remarkable combina- tion of degeneration on the one hand, and overgrowth on the other, suggesting a j)rofound disturbance of nutrition, the cause or causes of which are at present unknown. Clinical Features.—The course of the disease as met with in persons past middle life is a very protracted one. It begins imperceptibly, and often many years pass before there is any l>ronounced disability. The earliest symptom is stiffness of a joint, especially in the morning after resting all night. The stiffness passes off temporarily with use of the lindi, but as time goes on the range of movement becomes restricted and crack- ings occur. This stage of the disease may be prolonged in- definitely. If it progresses, stiffness becomes more pronounced, certain movements are lost altogether, others develop in abnormal directions, and the ends of the bones stand out pro- minently. In contrast with chronic rheumatism there is always some movement possible, and there is not the same tendency to contraction and to ankylosis. Hydrops is frequent in the knee, and may be met with in the elbow, shoulder, and ankle; it may be associated with hydrops of the adjacent bursm. The patient complains of a feeling of weight, of insecurity, and of tiredness in the joint. Pain is occasional and evanescent, and is usually the result of some extra exertion or exposure to cold and wet. As the joint be- comes distended with fluid the ligaments are stretched, so that the limb becomes weak and unstable. The affection is extremely chronic, and may last for an indefinite nund^er of years. It is to be diagnosed from the other forms of hydrops already considered—the purely traumatic, the pyogenic, gonorrhoeal.