DISEASES OF BONE. 622 maturity. Because of its spongy structure it is also described as a cancellous or spongy exostosis. An exostosis forms a rounded or mushroom-shaped tumour of limited size which may be either sessile or pedunculated, and its free surface is smooth or nodulated. A cartilaginous exostosis in the vicinity of a joint may be invested with a synovial sac or bursa—the so-called exostosis bursata. The bursa may be derived from the synovial membrane of the adjacent joint with which its cavity sometimes communicates, or it may be of adventitious origin; when it is the seat of bursitis and becomes distended with fluid it may prevent the recognition of the underlying exostosis. Clinically., the osteoma is met with as a hard, indolent tumour attached to a bone. Unless it presses injuriously on adjacent structures it is usually discovered accidentally. The special symptoms to which it gives rise vary with its situation. In the vicinity of a joint it may interfere with movement; at the inner side of the knee it may knock against the other limb, or incapacitate the patient from riding. When growing from the dorsum of the terminal phalanx of the great toe—subungual exostosis—it displaces the nail and may project through its matrix at the top of the toe, while the soft parts over it may be ulcerated from pressure (Fig. 87). When it presses on the nerves of a limb it causes pains, cramps, and other nerve symptoms. In the orbit it displaces the eyeball; in the nasal fossae and in the external auditory meatus it causes obstruction, which may be attended with ulceration and discharge. In the skull it may project from the outer table forming a smooth rounded swelling, or it may project from the inner table and press upon the brain. The diagnosis of osteoma is to be made by the long dura- tion and slow growth of the tumour, its hardness, and by the shadow which it presents when examined by the X-rays. Treatment.—An osteoma which does not cause .symptoms may be left alone. If causing symptoms, it is removed by dividing the neck or base of the tumour with a strong chisel, care being taken to remove the whole of the overlying cartilage. The dense varieties met with in the bones of the skull present greater difficulties j if it is necessary to remove them, the base or neck of the tumour is perforated in many directions with highly tempered drills rotated by some form of mechanical engine, and the division of the bone completed with the chisel. The multiple exostoses met with in childhood and youth are