G.57 TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. swelling—the conditions for distributing the iodoform are less favourable. In the knee, the joint may be divided into compartments by .septa of connective tissue derived from the synovial membrane, and the iodoform mu.st be introduced into all of them. The trocar must be thrust in all directions, successive parts of the joint being attacked at intervals of from ten to fourteen days. Injections into the substance of the synovial membrane are painful and less' certain. Mikulicz and others have recommended the injection of iodoform into the adjacent bones when these are soft enough to allow of the entrance of the trocar. The iodoform remains in the tissues for long periods, and may be seen as a dark shadow in skiagrams. After the injection of iodoform thei’e is usually con.siderable reaction attended with fever (101° F.), headache, and malaise, and considerable pain and swelling of the joint. In some cases there is sickness, and there may be blood pigment in the urine. The severity of these phenomena dimini.shes with each subsequent injection. The production of venom congestion as introduced l)y Bier is, if carefully supervised, an important adjuvant to the iodoform treatment. The congestion appears to act beneficially by stimu- lating the formation of connective tissue, and neutralising the toxins of the bacilli. Two or three turns of elastic webbing are applied over a layer of lint a short distance above the affected joint, sufficiently tightly to constrict the veins and produce a bluish-red tinge of the skin. To prevent oedema, the limb should be bandaged below the joint. The site of application of the elastic bandage should be frecprently changed, to avoid injuring the skin and to diminish the tendency to wasting of the muscles. The congestion is maintained for from fourteen to eighteen hours each day, and in the interval the oedema around the joint may be dispelled by a bandage. The congestion .should be persevered with until a month or two after the .symptoms of the joint disease have disappeared. The con- gestion should be suspended for two or three days after the injection of iodoform. The use of bli.sters and of the actual cautery has largely gone out of fashion, but these measures may be employed with benefit for the relief of pain when this is a prominent feature. The application of the X-rays twice or thrice a week has proved beneficial in synovial lesions. Treatment by means of Koch’s tuberculin is still on its trial. Conservative treatment VOL. I—42