is the risk of the disease being communicated to the offspring; so that if either parent suffers from secondary syphilis the infection is almost inevitably transmitted. The capacity of transmitting the disease, however, may be extended after the disappearance of all secondary manifestations. The longer the interval between the time that the parent contracted syphilis and conception, the less likely is the disease to be transmitted. While it is certain that either parent may be responsible for transmitting the disease to the next generation, the exact method of transmission is not known. It is most probable that in the case of a syphilitic mother the infection is conveyed to the foetus by the placental circulation. In the case of a syphilitic father, it is commonly believed that the infection is conveyed to the ovum through the seminal fluid at the moment of conception. If a series of children, one after the other, suffer from inherited syphilis, it is almost invariably the case that the mother has herself suffered from syphilis. The syphilitic virus exercises a most injurious influence on the foetus. In many cases the foetus dies during the early months of intra-uterine life so that miscarriage results, and this may take place in repeated pregnancies, the date at which the miscarriage occurs becoming later and later as the virus in the mother becomes attenuated, until eventually a child is carried to full term. The child is still-born, or if born alive may suffer from syphilitic manifestations. In recently infected mothers a viable foetus is rarely produced. It has usually been taught that in a family of syphilitic children the elder ones suffered more severely than the younger because they came nearer to the parental infection, but it would appear that there is no such variation in severity. It is impossible to explain such vagaries of syphilitic inheritance as the infection of one twin and the escape of the other. Clinical Features.—We are not here concerned with the severe forms of the disease which soon prove fatal, but with the milder forms in which the infant is apparently healthy when born, but after from two to six weeks begins to show evidence of the syphilitic taint. The usual phenomena are that the child ceases to thrive, becomes thin and sallow, suffers from eruptions on the skin and mucous membranes. There is frequently a characteristic condition known as snuffles, in which the nasal passages are obstructed by an accumulation of thin muco-purulent discharge which causes the breathing to be noisy. A similar condition may be met with in young infants from a simple catarrh.