WOUNDS BY FIREAKMS AND EXPLOSIVES. 231 is arrested by the sliock of the injury, nothing escapes, especially if the patient is not subjected to movement for some hours, and if, as is usually the case in active warfare, he has been fasting for some time before being wounded. The punctures in the gut have therefore time to become occluded by peritoneal adhesions before the intestinal contents j)ass along the injured segment. The passage of a small-bore bullet through a solid mscus—such as the liver, spleen, pancreas, or kidney — produces comparatively little laceration ; hence there is little or no bleeding, and few symptoms of any moment ensue. Operations performed on the field are contra-indicated in abdominal injuries, as they are calculated to prevent the formation of the adhesions which naturally close the perforations, or to break down such as have occurred. Shell Wounds and Wounds produced by Explosions.—It is convenient to consider together the effects of the bursting of shells tired from heavy ordnance in warfare, and those resulting in the course of blasting operations from the discharge of dynamite or other explosives, or from the bursting of steam boilers or pipes, the breaking of machinery, and similar accidents occurring in civil practice. Two types of shell are used by artillery ; the common shell, which consists of a hollow metal cylinder containing a bursting charge of powder, discharged either by a time-fuse or by impact; and Shraimel shell, the cavity of which contains several hundred large round bullets, which are dispersed by the bursting of the shell, which is timed to take place from 50 to 100 yards in front of the enemy. The destructive effect is produced by the frag- ments into which the shell bursts, together Avith, in the case of Shrapnel, the shower of bullets thus set free. Wounds inflicted by shell fragments and Shrapnel bullets tend to be extensive in area, but they do not penetrate deeply, and they show great contusion, laceration, and destruction of the tissues implicated. On account of their comparatively low velocity the missiles frequently lodge in the tissues. Shell wounds are attended with a considerable degree of shock. On account of the wide area of contusion which surrounds the actual wound produced by shell fragments, amputation, when called for, should be performed some distance above the torn tissues, and the prognosis in all cases should be guarded, as there is considerable risk of sloughing of the haps. Unlike the wounds produced by small-bore bullets, those resulting from shell fragments comparatively seldom run an aseptic course. Wounds produced by dynamite explosions, the bursting of boilers, and the breaking of machinery have the same general characters as shell wounds. Fragments of stone, coal, or