TUBERCULOSIS. 150 which, so long as they remain, continue to furnish discharge, and so prevent healing. Sooner or later pyogenic organisms gain access to the sinus, and through it to the wall of the abscess. They tend further to depress the resisting power of the tissues, and thereby aggravate and perpetuate the tuberculous disease. This superadded infection with pyogenic organisms exposes the patient to the further risks of septic intoxication, especially in the form of hectic fever and sej^ticmmia, and increases the liability to general tuberculosis. A tuberculous abscess may in one or other of these ways be a cause of death. A chronic abscess may be met with anywhere in the subcutaneous or other cellular tissue. It is often the result of tuberculous disease in a lymphatic gland, in a bone, or in one or other of the organs of the body, such as the kidney or testicle. Residual abscess is the name given to an abscess which may make its appearance months, or even years, after the apparent cure of tuberculous disease—as, for example, iu the hip-joint or spine. It is called residual because it has its origin in the residuum or remains of the original disease. Diagnosis.—A cold abscess in the quiescent stage is to be diagnosed from a softening syjdiilitic gumma, a cyst, a Iqjoma, and from other soft tumours. The differential diagnosis of these affections will be considered later. When a tuberculous abscess is about to burst externally, it may be difficult to distinguish it from an abscess due to infection with pyogenic organisms. Help is obtained by the history, and by recognising the association of the abscess with tuberculous disease in one of the organs or tissues in the neighbourhood. Even when the abscess is opened, the appearances of the pus may not supply the desired informa- tion, and it may be necessary to submit it to bacteriological examination. When no organisms are found in the pus it is usually safe to assume that the condition is tuberculous. Experi- mental inoculation may enable us to arrive at an accurate diagnosis, but it implies a delay of two to three weeks. Treatment.—It is instructive to know that before the intro- duction of Listerian methods, surgeons deprecated the opening of tuberculous abscesses because of the almost inevitable occurrence of pyogenic infection, and of the risks which this implies. After the introduction of antiseptics, it became possible to open such abscesses without these risks, and the procedure employed was to make an opening in a dependent position, and secure drainage by means of a rubber tube. The usual result was that the abscess continued to discharge, often for long periods, and the track of the tube frequently became a persistent