59 WHITLOW. ministration of quinine, strychnine, salicylate of iron, alcoholic stimulants, and by suitable nourishment. In cases due to infection by streptococci, anti-streptococcic serum should be used. In a few rare cases amputation well above the seat of disease may, by removing the source of toxin production, offer the only means of saving the patient’s life. While the majority of surgeons continue to follow the lines of treatment mentioned above, it should be mentioned that Bier, of Bonn, advocates the employment of passive congestion in the treatment of septic lesions, such, for example, as acute suppura- tion in tendon sheaths (p. 62). Suppurative Cellulitis in Different Situations. Whitlow.—The clinical term whitlow is applied to an acute inffammation, usually followed by suppuration, occurring in the connective-tissue planes of the fingers. The point of infection is often of a very trivial character—a pin-prick, a puncture caused by a splinter of wood, a scratch, or even an imperceptible lesion of the skin. Several varieties of whitlow are recognised, but while it is convenient to describe them se])arately, it is to be clearly under- stood that clinically they merge one into another, and it is not always possible to determine in which connective-tissue [ffane a given whitlow has originated. The Purulent Blister.—In the most superficial variety pus forms between the rete Malpighii and the stratum corneum of the skin, the latter being raised as a blister in which fluctuation can be detected (Fig. 13, a). This is commonly met with in the palm of the hand of labouring men, who have recently resumed work after a spell of idleness. When the pus forms in relation to the nail,—which corresponds to the stratum corneum,—it raises the nail also, and the yellow pus is often visible through it. There is some local heat and discoloration, and considerable pain and tenderness, but little or no constitutional disturbance. Siqjerflcial lymphangitis may extend a short distance up the hand. By clipping away the raised epidermis and nail the pus is allowed to escape, and under an antiseptic dressing healing speedily takes place. Whitlow at the Nail Fold.—This variety, which is met with among those who handle septic material, occurs in the sulcus between the nail and the skin, and is due to the introduction of