584 DISEASES OF BONE. inflammation, gradually going on to purulent infiltration. Where the process is most advanced—that is, at the ossifying junction—there are evidences of absorption, rarefaction, and disappearance of the framework of the bone ; the marrow spaces and Haversian canals are enlarged and filled with greenish- yellow pus. The cavities thus formed often communicate with the exterior by holes in the cortex, through which the jJUS may escape. The veins may become the seat of thrombosis and infective phlebitis. The inflammation affects chiefly the shaft of the bone, and necrosis of a considerable portion, or even of the entire shaft, takes place rapidly—hence the name “ acute necrosis ” formerly a})plied to the disease. Doubtless the vitality of the bone is seriously impaired by the vascular and tissue changes which attend the process, but the actual death is the result of the action of the toxins. The process may remain localised to the ossifying junction, may spread along the medullary canal for a varying distance, or may extend through the cortex to the perios- teum by way of the Haversian canals. It then presents the features of periosteal inflamma- tion and suppuration, the pus accumulatiiig under the periosteum and lifting it up from the bone (Fig. 217). The periosteum of the diaphysis is easily separated — hence the Fig 2r" Acute which the pus spreads along the bUippurah^PerTos^ shaft; but in the region of the ossifying titis of Humerus, junction it is raised with difficulty, because showing stripping of its intimate connection with the epiphysial of periosteum fi'om cartilage. Less frequently there are several upper part of dia- n n i • j. i physis collections of pus under the periosteum, each being derived from a focus of suppuration in the subjacent marrow. When there is pus in the marrow there is nearly always pus under the periosteum, and the converse is usually true. The pus makes its way to the surface by the easiest anatomical route, and discharges externally, forming one or more sinuses. The pus may spread to the adjacent joint, either directly through the epiphysis and articular cartilage, or by burrowing under the periosteum and capsule. When the epiphysis is intra-articular as, for example, in the head of the femur, the pus infects the joint directly. i I I I > I I