605 SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF BONE. In the later stages of acquired syphilis, gummatous periostitis and osteomyelitis are met with. These alfections are characterised by the formation in the periosteum or marrow of a circumscrihed gumma or of a diffuse gummatous infiltration. The frame- work of the bone is rai’efied in the area immediately involved, and condensed in the parts beyond. If the gummatous tissue degenerates and breaks down, and especially if the overlying skin is perforated and sei)tic infection is snperadded, the bone disintegrates and exhibits caries; sometimes a portion of bone has its blood-sup} >ly so far interfered with by the gummatous tissue that it dies — syphilitic necrosis. Syphilitic sec}uestra are heavier and denser than normal bone because scler- osis often precedes necrosis, and they usually se}iarate very slowly. The bones S})ecially affected by gum- matous disease are: the skull, the se}jtum of the nose, nasal bones, })alate, femur, tibia, and the bones of the forearm. In the bones of the skull, gummata may form in the })ericranium, diploe, or dura mater. Au isol- ated gumma })roduces a characteristic depression or an actual perforation of the calvaria. Multiple gummata tend to fuse with each other at their margins, giving the a}qjearance of a combination of circles ; these sometimes sur- round an area of bone and cut it off from its blood-supply (Fig. 229). If the overlying skin is destroyed and se}ffic infection su})eradded, such an isolated area of bone is apt to , die and furnish a sequestrum; the se}iaration of the dead bone is extremely slow, })artly from the want of vascularity in the sclerosed bone round about, and partly from the density of the sequestrum. In exce}ffional cases the necrosis involves the entire vertical }ffate of the frontal bone. There is su})]Juration between the bone and the dura (su}qjurative the condition known as syphilitic Fig. 229.—Syphilitic Disease of Skull, showing areas of necrosis in process of separation. (In Mr. Aiinandale’s collection.)