754 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. crossed over the other, circumduction movements of the foot are carried out; (5) while standing, the inner border of the foot is raised off the ground several times, then the patient walks to and fro on the outer border of the foot, and in the same attitude lifts one foot over the other. These exercises should be carried out slowly and deliberately, with the feet bare, and they should be carefully supervised until the jiatient thoroughly understands what is aimed at. The movements should be performed a definite number of times at regular intervals, but should not be pushed so as to cause jiain or fatigue. The patient should be fitted with well-made lacing boots. In time, the limbs are further strengthened by sea- bathing, cycling, skipping, and other exercises. In cases of the second degree, the patient should be provided with special boots or with a metal plate inside the boot. The “ flat-foot boot ” is a strong, well-made lacing boot, with the heel and sole thickened on the inner side so that the foot is forced to rest on its outer border (James Miller, 1846). A metal plate inside the boot, known as Whitman’s Spring, is to be preferred to rubber pads. A plaster cast is taken of the sole while the foot is held in its proper position, and on this a metal plate, preferably of aluminium bronze, is modelled. This is covered with leather and inserted into the boot. The treatment described for cases of the first degree is carried out in addition. In cases of the third degree, the deformity is corrected under an anaesthetic. The foot is forcibly moved in all directions so as to stretch the shortened ligaments and to break down adhesions, it is then rotated into an extreme varus position, and fixed in plaster of Paris or to a Dupuytren’s splint. When the reaction consequent upon this procedure has settled down, the question of shortening or of reinforcing the tendons mainly concerned in the support of the arch of the foot may be considered. In cases of the fourth degree, in which the displacement and deformity of the bones constitute an insuperable bar to correction, some form of operative treatment is indicated. Among the numerous procedures recommended we would restrict the choice to one or other of the following:— Resection of a Wedge from the Astragalo-Scaphoid Joint (Ogston).—A longitudinal inci.sion is made over the j^rojecting head of the astragalus and the tuberosity of the scaphoid. These bones are cleared of soft parts, and the opposing articular- surfaces are removed with the chisel iu such a fashion that the astragalus is left convex and the scaphoid concave. The opposed articular surfaces of the scaphoid and internal cunei-