427 DEFECTIVE UNION OF FIlACTUEES. Badly United Fracture — Mal-Union.—Bony union with marked dis])lacement of the fragments is most common in fractures'which have not been properly treated—as, tor example, those occurring in sailors at sea; and in cases where the com- minution was so great that accurate apposition was rendered impossible. It may also result from imperfect reduction, or because the apparatus employed permitted of secondary dis- placement. Restlessness on the part of the patient from in- tractability, delirium tremens, or mania, is the cause of vicious union in some cases. Whether or not any attempt should be made to improve matters depends largely on the degree of deformity and the amount of interference with function. While the fracture is still i-ecent, the bone may be bent into position or rebroken under an aniesthetic, and set accurately. When the callus is firmly consolidated, a strong mechanical contrivance, known as an osteoclast, may be employed to re- break it, but in the majority of cases an osteotomy with chisel and mallet gives results which are more certain and satisfactory. In the milder cases, the bone may be divided with an osteotome and straightened; while in those with more marked bending or angling, a wedge may be taken from the convexity, as in the operation for bow-leg. To retain the fragments in position, splints and extension may be employed; or if these measures are insufficient, pegs, screws, bone ferrules, or other direct means may be used. Delayed Union.—The normal period required for union may be extended from various causes. The most inq)ortant of these is general debility, but the presence of rickets or tuberculosi.s, or an intercurrent acute infectious disease, may help to delay the reparative process. The influence of syi>hilis, exce^jt in its gummatous forms, in interfering with union is doubtful. The influence of old age as a factor in delaying union has been over- estimated; in the great majoi’ity of cases, fractures in old people unite as rapidly and as firmly as those occurring in middle life. At the time when union should be firm and solid it may be found that the fragments are only united by a soft cartilaginous callus, which for a prolonged period may undergo no further change, so that the limb remains incapable of bearing weight or otherwise performing its functions. Treatment.—In such cases the general condition of the patient should be improved as far as possible I)y dieting and tonics. One of the most reliable methods of hastening union in these cases is by inducing passive congestion of the limb after