158 SYPHILIS. time this is replaced by smooth, pale-pink granulation tissue; finally, epithelium may spread over the surface and the ulcer heals. As a rule the patient suffers little or no discomfort, and may even be ignorant of the existence of the lesion, unless, as a result of exposure to mechanical or septic irritation, ulceration becomes a prominent feature, and it becomes painful and tender, and yields an abundant purulent discharge. The j^rimary lesion, -whether ulcerated or not, refuses to disappear under local measures, and persists until the secondary manifestations make their appearance. It cannot be emphasised too strongly that the induration of the primary lesion, which has obtained for it the name of “hard chancre,” is its most important characteristic. It is best ap- preciated when the sore is grasped from side to side between the finger and thumb. The sensation on grasping it has been aptly compared to that imparted by a nodule of cartilage, or by a button felt through a layer of cloth. The evidence obtained by touch is more valuable than that obtained by inspection, a fact which is made use of in the recognition of concealed chancres —that is, those which are hidden from view by a tight prepuce. The induration is due not only to the dense packing of the connective-tissue spaces with leucocytes, but to the formation of new connective-tissue elements. It is most mai'ked in relation to chancres situated in the furrow between the glans and the prepuce. In the male, the primary lesion specially affects certain situations, and the appearances vary with these:—(1) On the inner aspect of the prejjuce, and in the fold between the prepuce and the glans; in the latter situation the induration imparts a “collar-like” rigidity to the prepuce which is most apparent when it is rolled back over the corona. (2) At the orifice of the prepuce tlie primary lesion assumes the form of multiple linear ulcers or fissures, and as each of these is attended with infiltration, the prepuce cannot be pulled back—a condition of acquired or syphilitic phimosis. (3) On the glans penis the infiltration may be so superficial that it resembles a layer of parchment, but if it invades the cavernous tissue there is a dense mass of induration. (4) On the external aspect of the prepuce or on the skin of the penis itself. (5) At either end of the torn fraenum, in the form of a diamond-shaped ulcer raised above the surroundings. (6) In relation to the meatus and canal of the urethra, in either of which situations the swelling and induration may lead to narrowing of the urethra, so that the urine is passed -with pain and difficulty and in a