704 DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. patten and crutches; in bilateral cases, from the use of crutches alone. Hysterical affections of the hip are also met with. The Knee-Joint. The knee is more often the seat of disease than aiiy other joint in the body. The synovial membrane of the knee extends beneath the quadriceps extensor as a cul-de-sac, which either communicates with the subcrural bursa, or with it forms one continuous cavity (Fig. 188). When the joint is distended with fluid, this upper pouch bulges above and on either side of the patella, and this bone is “ floated ” off the condyles of the femur. When there is only a small amount of fluid in the knee, it is most easily recognised while the patient stands with his feet together and the trunk bent forwards at the hip-joints, the complete relaxation of the quadriceps allowing the fluid to bulge above and on each side of the patella, where its presence is readily detected, especially on comparison with the joint of the other side. On account of the great extent of the synovial membrane, a large quantity of serous effusion may accumulate in the joint in a comparatively short time, as a result either of injury or disease. The villous processes and fringes may take on an exaggerated growth, and give rise to pedunculated and other forms of loose body. The bursae in the popliteal space, and especially that between the semi-membranosus and the inner head of the gastrocnemius, as well as the subcrural bursa, frequently communicate with the synovial cavity of the knee and may share in its diseases. The epiphyses at the knee are chiefly responsible for the growth in length of the lower extremity, and are late in uniting with their respective shafts. Serious shortening of the limb, therefore, may result if their functions are interfered with by disease or injury. The epiphysial cartilages lie beyond the limits of the synovial cavity, so that infective lesions at the ossifying junctions are less likely to spread to the joint than is the case at the hip or shoulder, where the epiphyses lie partly or wholly within the joint; disease in the lower end of the femur is more likely to implicate the knee-joint than disease in the upper end of the tibia.