590 DISEASES OF BONE. down the medullary cavity, and the bone has died in patches, several sequestra may be- included by the new case.' Each portion of dead bone is • slowly separated, and comes to lie in a cavity lined by granulations. As a result of formation of new bone by the marrow, the medullary canal may be obliterated, and the bone becomes heavier and denser—sclerosis. Wherever the periosteum has not been detached, the new bone which it forms is deposited on the original shaft, and results in an increase in the girth of the bone—hyperostosis. Pathological fracture of the shaft may occur at the site of necrosis, when the new case is incapable of resisting any strain put upon it, and is most frequently met with in the shaft of the femur. Short of fracture, there may be bending or curving of the new case, and this results in deformity and shortening of the limb (Fig. 219). The extrusion of a sequestrum may occur, provided there is a cloaca large enough to allow of its escape, but the surgeon has usually to interfere by performing the operation of seques- trectomy. Displacement or partial ex- trusion of the dead bone may cause serious complications, as when a sequestrum derived from the trigone of the femur perforates the popliteal artery or the cavity of the knee-joint. The extent to which bone which has been lost is reproduced varies in differ- ent parts of the skeleton : while the long bones of limbs, the scapula, the lower jaw, and other bones which are developed in cartilage are almost perfectly reproduced, the articular ends of bone, and bones which are entirely developed in membrane, such as the flat bones of the skull and upper jaw, are not reproduced at all. Sequelm of Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis.—The patient may not apply for treatment until the acute stage has passed off and sinuses have formed. These sinuses have rigid edges which are usually depressed and adherent to the subjacent bone and generally imply the presence of a sequestrum. Fig. 219.—Large Sequestrum of Lower Part of Shaft of Femur partly surrounded hy New Bone ; the latter is Lent as a result of fracture which took place 2^ years before amputation. (Museum, Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.)