SUPPUEATION. 64 of sinus met with clinically — the septic, and the tuberculous sinus. A laeptic sinus usually represents the track by which the discharge escapes from an abscess cavity which has been jire- vented from closing completely. The obstacle to closure may be the presence of a foreign body, such as a piece of dead bone,, a septic ligature, or a bullet in the abscess cavity, and this may act mechanically or by keeping up a discharge which must find an exit. In other cases—for example, where the sinus passes through a muscle—closure may be prevented by the constant movement of the part. The sinus is lined by granulation tissue, and when a foreign body is present a mass of redundant granulations often projects from the external opening. In a sinus of long standing there is often a considerable amount of scar tissue around it, the contraction of which drags the opening of the sinus below the level of the surrounding skin. The treatment in these cases is the removal of the cause, by enlarging the opening so as to be able to remove any foreign substance aiid to permit of disinfection as well as of thorough drainage. Any mnscles through or between which the sinus passes must be kept at rest by suitable splints, or by division of their fibres. The sinus may be scraped, and treated with pure carbolic acid or the thermo-cautery, and then stuffed with iodoform worsted, so as to encourage healing from the bottom. When the healing of a sinus is likely to be followed by contraction causing disfigurement—for example, in a sinus over the lower jaw associated with a carious tooth—it may be treated by complete excision, the raw surfaces left being approximated by stitches. The tuberculous sinus fails to close because of the presence of tuberculous tissues in its walls. As a rule the primary focus of tubercle in bone, joint, or gland is still active, and the sinus is a necessary avenue for the escape of discharge. These sinuses, which are often long and tortuous, are treated by thorough removal of all the tuberculous tissue from which they originate and by which they are lined, and by thorough disinfection with carbolic acid or some other powerful and penetrating antiseptic. Packing with iodoform worsted is a useful form of dressing. Persistent tuberculous sinuses may sometimes close after being repeatedly subjected to the Rdntgen rays. A Fistula is an abnormal canal ])assing from a mucous surface to the skin or to another mucous surface. Fistulse resulting from suppuration usually occur near the natural openings of