643 GONORRlia-:AL AFFECTIONS. septicseinic or pycemic character. It occurs chieiiy in children at a later stage of scarlet fever, anti in cases in which the thi’oat lesion is severe. There is also described a “ true rheumatic arthritis ” occurring when convalescence from scarlet fever is well advanced ; this form is favourably influenced by anti-rheumatic remedies, and is sometimes complicated with endocarditis and with chorea. Pneumococral arthritis is met with chiefly in one of the large joints in adult males, as a primary affection or as a complication of pneumonia. The changes in the joint afl'ected and the clinical features are those common to all acute jiyogenic infections, and the differential diagnosis can only be established by asj)iration and bacteriological examination of the fluid in the joint. The treat- ment is by early incision and drainage. The prognosis depends on the presence or absence of general pneumococcal infection. In measles, diphtheria, smallpox, infiuenza, and dysentery, joint lesions may occur, but are less frequent than in typhoid or scarlet fever. The joint lesions which acconqiany aeute rheumatism may be provisionally included with the other members of this group. For a description of them the reader is referred to works on medicine. Gonorrhoeal Affections of Joints.—These include all forms of joint lesion a.ssociated with gonorrhoeal urethritis or vaginitis, or with gonorrhtjeal ophthalmia. They may develop at any stage of the urethritis, and are most frequently met with when the infection has reached the posterior portion of the urethra ; they have been observed, however, after the discharge has ceased and when there are only threads in the urine. There is no connection between the severity of the gonorrhoea and the in- cidence of joint disease. In women it may originate from a vaginitis, which is only to be distinguished from an ordinary leucorrhoea by bacteriological examination of the discharge. As a complication of ophthalmia the joint lesions are chiefly met with in infants, and occur more commonly towards the end of the second or during the third week. The joint lesions may be the only evidence of metastatic infection, or they may be part of a general gonorrhoeal infection which involves the endocardium, the pleura, and the tendon sheaths. The gonococcus is carried to the joint in the blood- stream and is first deposited in the synovial membrane. On opening the joint, the gonococcus can nearly always be found in pure culture in the synovial mendjrane, althongh it may be impossible to find it in the exudate within the joint.