DISEASES OF BONE. 600 the formation of a cold abscess in the soft parts is often the first evidence of tuberculous disease in the periosteum, and its true source and nature may only be recognised on incising the abscess and exploring its interior. Diagnosis.—Before the stage of cold abscess is reached, the localised swelling over the bone is to be differentiated from a syphilitic gumma, from chronic forms of staphy- lococcal osteomyelitis, from certain forms of enlarged bursa or of gan- glion, especially in the region of the knee, from subj>eriosteal lipoma, and from sarcoma. Most difficulty may be met with in relation to periosteal sarcoma, which, however, is charac- terised by its rapid and continuous progress, by the severity and persist- ence of pain in spite of rest, and by the absence of suppuration. A rise of temperature in the evening is more likely to be present in cases of rapidly growing sarcoma than in tubercle, unless the latter is compli- cated with pyogenic infection or with phthisis. The X-rays, in the case of tubercle, show a superficial erosion of the bone, while in sarcoma there is usually a considerable forma- tion of new bony material. The Fig. 223.—Enlargement of final appeal is to exploratory incision. Lower End of Humerus and histological and bacterio- , r^eLToftier1ulJ!Js“"osteo! examination of the diseased myelitis. The term spina flSSUe. ventosa is applicable to the The early recognition and prompt condition oi the upper end treatment of periosteal tuberculosis in the region of the articular ends of long bones is of importance, as the disease, when left to itself, is liable to spread to the adjacent joint. Treatment may be carried out by the injection of iodoform, or by open incision and removal of the infected tissues with the sharp spoon. In the case of the ribs it is more satisfactory to remove the diseased portion of bone. If all the tubercle has been removed and the skin is healthy, the wound may be stitched up of the ulna. (Museum of Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.)