654 DISEASES OF JOINTS. for the articular surfaces and ligaments are still intact. There may be a feeling of weight in the limb, and in the case of the knee and ankle the patient may tire on walking and drag the leg with more or less of a limp. The movements of the joint are painless, although usually somewhat limited in range. The disability is increased by use and exertion, but, for a time at least, it improves under rest. As the disease progresses the signs and symptoms slowly become more marked. The skin over the joint becomes tense and hot, the swelling, which was at first firm and elastic, may show areas of softening, and later of fluctuation; and a cold abscess may form and produce one or more sinuses by bursting through the skin. The wasting of muscles increases, the joint becomes more rigid as the articular cartilages become affected, and the attitude of flexion is very commonly assumed, more especially in the case of the knee. Starting pains at night indicate destructive changes in the articular surfaces. The final condition tends to be one of disorganisation of the joint, with deformity and multiple sinuses. Tuberculous Arthritis.—It is convenient to group under this heading those cases of tuberculous joint disease in which the early and outstanding clinical features are the result of implication of the articular surfaces. Although, as already indicated, these symi)toms commonly develop in the later stages of white swelling, it is a matter of everyday experience that symptoms of implication of the articular surfaces may be the first evidence of tuberculous joint infection, and may exist without white swelling or any other clinical sign of disease in the synovial membrane. These remarks apply specially to such deeply seated joints as the hip, shoulder, and spine. The recognition of this form of tuberculous joint disease depends rather upon inferences founded upon certain symptoms and signs than upon direct examination of the joint itself. The patient complains of pain in the joint affected, or refers it to some other part which shares the same nerve-.supply; for example, in hip disease the pain is often referred to the knee through the obturator nerve. The pain is aggravated by move- ment, and in the case of the joints of the lower extremity the patient limps in walking. The movements of the joint are restricted or abolished. Wasting of muscles is more marked than in the early stage of white swelling. Very commonly the limb assumes an abnormal attitude as a result of the contraction of particular groups of muscles. In the more advanced stages, other signs may make their