FRACTUEES OF THE SCAPULA. 463 three weeks, after which the patient is allowed to use his arm. After the first week the bandages are removed daily to admit of massage. Fracture of the surgical neck of the scapula, although a rare accident, is of considerable clinical importance, as it is liable to be mistaken for dislocation of the shoulder. The line of fracture runs through the suprasca2iular notch, downwards and outwards to the lower margin of the glenoid, so that the glenoid and the coracoid process are sejmrated from the rest of the bone. The coraco-acromial and coraco-clavicular ligaments are usually torn, and the detached fragment, along with the head of the humerus, sinks into the axilla, causing a flattening of the shoulder, and leaving a depression below the projecting acromion. The arm is lengthened by about an inch. By supporting the arm the deformity is at once reduced, but recurs as soon as the sujjport is withdrawn. Crepitus is usually detected on carrying out this manipulation; and the coracoid process is found to move with the arm and not with the scapula. By these tests this injury is distinguished from a dislocation. A partial fracture carrying away the lower j)art of the glenoid cavity sometimes simulates a sub-glenoid dislocation. This is, however, a very rare injury. The treatment consists in bracing back the shoulders and suj^porting the elbow, and this is most satisfactorily done_by means of Duncan’s or Chiene’s bandage in the same way as for fracture of the middle third of the clavicle (j). 446). Passive movement and massage are employed from the first, and the bandage should be kept on for about four weeks. Fracture of the acromion process may result from a blow or fall on the shoulder. It is often overlooked clinically on account of the swelling resulting from bruising of soft j^arts, and the absence of marked dis^rlacement. On 2Jal2)ation, cre23itus and an irregularity at the seat of fracture may sometimes be detected. The shoulder is slightly flattened, and abduction of the arm is difficult. In rare cases the fracture passes into the acromio- clavicular joint, and is associated with dislocation of the clavicle. In connection with this fracture, reference must be made to a condition frequently met with, in which the epiphysial 23ortion of the acromion is found to be se23arate from the body of the process. This is by some (Symington, Hamilton) looked upon as a want of union of the epi23hysis, but the weight of evidence seems to prove that it is rather of the nature of an un-united fracture at this level, even when, as sometimes happens, it is bilateral (Struthers, Lane).