256 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. which [)rojects into the lumen of the vessel is known as the internal clot. The internal clot usually extends into the vessel as far as the nearest collateral branch. These processes con- stitute what is known as the “temporary arrest of haemorrhage,” which, it will be observed, is effected by the contraction and retraction of the divided artery and the formation of a blood- clot. The “ permanent arrest” takes place by the transformation of this clot into scar tissue. The internal clot plays the most important part in the process : it becomes invaded by leucocytes and proliferating endothelial and connective-tissue cells, and new blood-vessels permeate the mass forming granulation tissue. This is ultimately replaced by cicatricial fibrous tissue, which permanently occludes the end of the vessel. Concurrently and by the same process the external clot is converted into scar tissue. In course of time the collateral branches of the vessel above and below the level of section become enlarged and their inter- communication becomes more free, so that even when large trunks have been divided the vascular supj^ly of the parts beyond may be completely restored. This is known as the development of the collateral circulation. Repair of Veins.—The process of repair in veins is the same as that in arteries, but the thrombosed area may again become canalised and the circulation through the vessel be re-established. Conditions tvhich influence the Natural Arrest of Hcemorrhage. —It has already been mentioned that laceration of a blood-vessel promotes the natural arrest of haemorrhage, the twisting of the coats favouring the formation of clots. The occurrence of syncope or of profound shock also helps to stop bleeding by reducing the force of the heart’s action. On the other hand, there are various conditions which retard the natural arrest. When, for example, a vessel is only partially divided, the contraction and retraction of the muscular coat, instead of diminishing the calibre of the artery, causes the opening to gape. By completing the division of the vessel under these circumstances the bleeding can often be arrested. In certain situations also the arteries are so intimately connected with their sheaths that when cut across they are unable to retract and contract—for example, in the scalp, in the penis, and in bones—and copious bleeding may take place from com- paratively small vessels. This inability of the vessels to contract and retract occurs also in inflamed and cedematous parts and in scar tissue. Arteries divided in the substance of a muscle also sometimes bleed unduly. Any increase in the force of fhe heart’s