INJURIES. 230 evidence of actual fracture of the skull require operation to enable, the wounds to be purified and to permit of depressed fragments of bone being elevated or loose fragments removed. Foreign bodies lodged in the brain should be removed if easy of access, but prolonged searching for them is not permissible. The experience of the South African War showed tliat tlie results of these operations are on the whole eminently satisfactory. Spine.—From the records of the Boer War it would appear that in a considerable number of cases in which the vertebrse were injured by small-bore bullets, even although the bony walls of the sirinal canal liad not been fractured or depressed, and no extra-dural or intra-medullary hsemorrhage had occurred, the spinal cord in the vicinity was degenerated into a “custard-like material” incapable of any conducting power (Makins). According to Stevenson, this “must have been due to the vibratory concussion communicated to it by the passage of the bullet at a high rate of velocity.” The importance of this observation lies in the fact that in such cases no benefit can follow ojjerative interference. The cord may be partially or completely cut across by a bullet; and extra-dural and intra-medullary haemorrhage may accompany injuries to the bones. These lesions, as well as gun-shot fractures of the vertebrae, present the same clinical features and call for the same treatment as similar injuries ])i’oduced in other ways (vol. ii. chaji. vi.). Chest.—Nun-penctrating wounds are often accompanied by fractures of ribs, sternum, or shoulder girdle, and as the projectile is frequently lodged in the tissues, sepsis is liable to ensue. External haemorrhage is uncommon, but, even although the lung is not directly injured, haemop- tysis is often present. In 2)enctrating \\omvi.fi it is often impossible to distinguish between the apertures of entrance and exit, and, even when the missile has passed tlirough the lung, there is very seldom any external haemorrhage. In most cases these wounds run an aseptic course, aird they are seldom complicated by pleurisy or ]ineunionia. The symptoms most frequently j)resent are : a variable and often remarkably slight degree of shock, some cyanosis and dysimoea, slight and transient i>ain, and increased rapidity of pulse-rate. Haemoptysis is seldom a prominent symptom. Haemothorax is the most serious complication ; it is frequently accom- panied by a slight degree of pneumothorax, and is usually attended with a rise of temperature even when aseptic. These lesions and their complications are treated on the same lines as when due to other forms of injury (vol. ii. chap. xx.). The removal of bullets aird other foreign bodies lodged in the cavity of the thorax is only to be attempted when they are causing symptoms and can be accurately localised by the X-rays. Wounds of the heart or pericardium are usually rapidly fatal, but recovery has taken ptlace in cases in which there was every reason to believe that the heart had been perforated. Wounds of the Abdomen.—Recent experience has demonstrated that small - bore bullets usually produce comparatively slight disturbance even when they perforate hollow as well as solid viscera ; and that for such injrrries the results of surgical interference are extremely dis- ajipointing. In the South African War a very large percentage of perforating abdominal wounds recovered without operation—a result which is attribrrted to the fact that modern bullets make very minute punctures in the intestine, which immediately close. As the peristalsis