653 TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. tion of - fluid within the joint. It i.s analogous to the ascitic form of peritoneal tuberculosis and to the effusion in tuberculous disease of the pleura. It is the chief representative of the “ chronic simple synovitis ” of the older authors. Inasmuch as it frequently terminates in recovery with a useful joint, it may be regarded as the least serious form of tuberculous joint disease. As it is most often met with in the kuee, it will be described with the affections of that joint. Cold Abscess or Empyema of Joints.—The special feature of this type consists in the accumulation of tuberculous pus within the joint. It is analogous to the purulent type of peritoneal tuberculosis and tuberculous empyema of the pleura. It is most often met with in the knee, and is usually the result of tuber- culosis starting in the synovial membrane. It is met with in those who are much reduced in health, and who are the subjects of tuberculous lesions elsewhere. Its clinical features resemble those of hydrops so closely that the differential diagnosis is rarely made until the fluid is withdrawn by means of an explor- ing syringe. The prognosis is less favourable than in hydrops. Diffuse Thickening of the Synovial Membrane. — White Swelling of Joints.—Tumor allms was the name originally applied by Wiseman in 1676 to that form of tuberculous disease which is characterised by the gradual development of an elastic swelling in the region of a joint. It has already been pointed out that this swelling is to a considerable extent the result of inflammatory and mucoid changes in the fat and connective tissue surrounding the capsule of the joint, as well as of tuberculous thickening of the synovial membrane. It may originate from tuberculosis starting in the synovial membrane as well as from disease in the bone. The changes within the joint and the course of the disease vary within wide limits. The ai)pearances of white swelling bulk so largely in the clinical features of a large number of cases of tuberculous joint disease that it is [)robably the best- known clinical type. It is be.st illustrated in joints which are superficial—such as the knee, ankle, elbow, and wrist. The swelling, which is the first and most prominent clinical feature, develops gradually and painlessly, obliterating the bony promi- nences by filling up the natural hollows (Fig. 271). It aj^pears greater to the eye than is borne out by measurement, being thrown into relief by the wasting of the muscles above and below the joint. In the early stage the swelling is elastic, doughy, and non-sensitive, and corresponds very accurately to the sui)er- ficial area of the synovial membrane involved. At this stage there is comparatively little complaint on the part of the patient.