INJURIES OF WRIST AND HAND. 500 Fractures of the Lower End of the Ulna.—The lower end of the shaft of the ulna is seldom fractured alone. The styloid process, as has already been pointed out, is frequently broken in association with Colles’ and other fractures of the lower end of the radius. Separation of the lower epiphysis of the ulna sometimes occurs, and in rare cases results in arrest of the growth of the ulna, leading to a varus condition of the hand and bending of the radius. The treatment is similar to that for Colles’ fracture. Simultaneous separation of the epiphyses of both radius and ulna sometimes occurs, and, as a result of severe violence, may be compound, the lower ends of the diaphyses projecting through the skin on the dorsum. Fractures of Carpal Bones.—The use of the Rontgen rays has shown that fracture of individual carpal bones is a commoner injury than has hitherto been supposed, and that many cases formerly looked upon as severe sprains are examples of this injury. The scaphoid is broken more frequently than any of the others, usually by direct violence or by forced dorsiflexion. The clinical features are : localised swelling on the radial side of the wrist, marked tenderness in the anatomical snuffbox when the hand is moved laterally, and, sometimes, crepitus. In many cases, however, the symptoms are so obscure that an accurate diagnosis can only be made by the use of the X-rays. In many cases the fracture is compound and associated with other injuries, particularly forward dislocation of the semilunar bone. The treatment of simple fractures consists in fixing the wrist and carpal joints by a palmar splint, the metacarpals being slightly hyper-extended. When the fracture is compound the loose fragments should be removed. Codman and Chase recom- mend excision of the proximal half of the fractured bone. Dislocations in the Region of the Wrist. The strong ligaments of the articulations about the wrist, the comparatively free movement at the various joints, and the relative weakness of the lower end of the radius whereby it is so frequently fractured, render dislocation a rare form of injury. Dislocation may occur at the inferior radio-ulnar, the radio- carpal, mid-carpal, inter-carpal, or carpo-metacarpal joints. Dislocation of tlie inferior radio-ulnar articulation is seldom met with exqept as a complication of fracture of the lower end