630 DISEASES OF BONE. the organs or in other bones, or may be generalised throughout the body. To obtain a reasonable prospect of cure by operation, the diagnosis must be made at an early stage of the disease. It may present considerable difficulty. The lesions likely to be confused with sarcoma are chronic inflammatory conditions of bone, such as Brodie’s abscess, syphilitic gumma, tuberculous disease in the interior of the bone, innocent tumours and hydatid cysts. When sarcoma forms a swelling near a joint and is attended with synovial effusion and a local increase in temperature, the resemblance to tuberculous disease of the joint may be very close. Secondary cancer of bone may present the same clinical appearances as sarcoma, and may be mistaken for it unless its connection with a primary cancer elsewhere is recognised. Chief reliance is to be placed on information gained by examination with the X-rays, and by exploratory incision supplemented by microscopical examination of the tissue removed. Skiagraphy is not only of assistance in differentiating new growths from other diseases of bone, but may also yield informa- tion as to the situation and nature of a tumour, which may have important bearings on treatment. The prognosis varies with the period at which the tumour is recognised; with its malignancy as indicated by its rapidity of growth; and with its situation as bearing on the possi- bility of complete removal by operation. Growths on the skull, spine, or pelvis rarely lend themselves to sui’gical inter- ference. In the limbs the prognosis is graver the nearer the disease is to the trunk, because of the greater uncertainty of the disease being completely removed, and also because of the greater mortality which attends high amputations. The occurrence of pathological fracture is an unfavourable feature, as it implies that the disease has been in existence for a longer period than the history of the case would suggest. Periosteal tumours are less favourable than central ones, because they are more liable to give rise to metastases. Our own ex- perience is that the majority of cases of sarcoma of bone succumb within one or two years to secondary growths in the lungs or elsewhere. According to Konig, the permanent cures amount only to 18 per cent. Treatment.—Those tumours which lend themselves to ope- rative interference should be removed at the earliest possible moment. The usual practice has hitherto been to perform amputation well above the growth where one of the bones of a limb is involved, and this is still to be recommended as a