497 COLLES’ FRACTURE. supination are lost, the joint is swollen, and there is tenderness on pressure, especially over the line of fracture. Tenderness over the position of the ulnar styloid may indicate fracture of that process, although it is sometimes present without fracture, and has been absent in cases where a fracture was demonstrated by the Rontgen rays (Cathcart). No attempt should be made to elicit crepitus in a suspected case of Colies’ fracture, as the manipulations are extremely iiainful, and are liable to increase the displacement. As a matter of fact it niay be wanting in any form of this injury. Its absence, further, is not to be accepted as proving impaction. Treatment.—It cannot be too strongly insisted upon that success in the treatment of Codes’ fracture depends chiefly upon complete and accurate reduction. As considerable force may be necessary, especially when impaction exists, a general anmsthetic is of great assistance. The surgeon grasps the patient’s hand, as if shak- ing hands with him, and resting the palmar surface of the wrist on his bent knee, makes firm traction through the hand, and counter-extension through the forearm, with lateral movements, if necessary, to undo impaction. When the frag- ments are freed from one another the wrist is flexed, and the hand carried to the ulnar side, while the fragments are moulded into position. When reduction is complete the deformity almost entirely disappears, and the two styloid processes regain their normal positions relative to one another. As there is no tendency to redisplacement, the simj)lest possible retentive apparatus should be applied. A firm flannel bandage, a broad strip of adhesive plaster, or a poroplastic wristlet is usually sufficient. In some cases, however, a dorsal splint padded so as to flex the wrist to an angle of 45° (P. Heron Watson); or anterior and posterior splints, similar to those used for fracture of both bones of the forearm, but some- what narrower, may be employed, as they add to the patient’s comfort and sense of security. The hand and forearm are in any case supported in a sling. To avoid the stiffness which often follows this fracture, the fingers should be freely moved from the first, and massage and movement of the wrist commenced within the first few days, VOL, 1—3?