SURGERY OF THE INDIVIDUAL NERVES. 345 in the body. It is frequently compressed against the humerus in sleeping with the arm resting on the back of a chair, especially in the deejj sleep of alcoholic intoxication (drunkard’s palsy). It may be pressed upon by a crutch in the axilla, by the dislocated head of the humerus, or by violent squeezing of the upper arm, as when an elastic tourniquet is ajiplied too tightly. The most serious and permanent injuries of the nerve are associated with fractures of the humerus, esjrecially those from direct violence attended with comminution. The nerve may be crushed or torn by one of the fragments at the time of the injury, or at a later period may be coni]jressed by callus. Clinical Features.—It is impossible to tell clinically whether the nerve is torn across or merely compressed. The patient may complain of numbness and of tingling in the distribution of the radial nerve, but there is rarely any definite loss of sensation. The motor symptoms predominate, the muscles affected being the extensors of the wrist and fingers, and the supinators. If the lesion is high up, as it is, for example, in crutch par- alysis, the triceps and an- coneus may also suffer. There is a characteristic “ drop-wrist ”; the wrist is flexed and pronated, and the patient is unable to dorsiffex the wrist or finger's (Fig. 75). If the hand and proximal phalanges are supported, the second and third phalanges may be partially extended by the interossei and lumbricals. There is also considerable impairment of power in the nruscles which antagonise those that are paralysed, so that the grasp of the hand is very feeble, and the patient almost loses the use of it. Treatment.—The slighter forms of injury by compression recover under massage, douching, and electricity. If there is drop-wrist, the hand and forearm are placed on a palmar splint, with the hand dorsiflexed to nearly a right angle, and this position is maintained until the voluntary dorsiflexion at the Fio. 75.—Drop-Wiist from Museulo-Spiral Paralysis, the result of wound of upper arm.