695 THE HIP-JOINT. Among other conditions wliicli may simulate hip disease, especially in children, are ai)pendicitis, inflammation of the glands in the groin, staphylococcal disease of the upper end of the femur, and sciatica. The diagnosis from other diseases of the Id^J-joint is seldom difficult. F7'og7iosis.—The prognosis in hip disease is more serious than in tuberculosis of other joints, excepting only those of the spine, and it is most unfavourable where there are gross lesions of the bones and infected sinuses, especially in adults who are the subjects of tuberculosis elsewhere, although even these cases may eventually recover. Whatever the stage of the disease, recovery is a slow process, and even in early and mild cases it seldom takes place in less than two years, and is liable to be attended with some impair- ment of function. During the process of cure complications are always liable to occur, and after apparent recovery relapses are not uncommon. When arrested during the initial stage, there may only be a limitation in the range of movement • but when the disease has advanced to the stage in which there is de- struction of the articular surfaces, the joint is liable to become ankylosed and the limb may be shortened. The average shortening amounts to from one and a half to two inches. The formation of abscess, especially within the pelvis, is a serious complication. In cases which ternunate fatally, death usually results from meningeal, pulmonary, or general tuberculosis, septic complica- tions, and waxy degeneration. Treatment.—A large proportion of cases recover under con- servative treatment, and the functional results are so much better than those following operative interference, that unless there are special indications to the contrary conservative measures should always be adopted in the first instance. Conse7'vative IWeatimnt.—This consists in protecting the limb from injurious strain or pressure, and in preventing deformity. Absolute rest is imperative, and the patient must be confined to bed until pain and tenderness have disappeared and sleep is undisturbed. Extension by 7neans of weight U7id pulley is of most service in cases attended with pain, spasmodic contraction of muscles, rigidity of the joint, or a deformed attitude of the limb. The weight employed varies from three to eight pounds in children, to ten or more pounds in adolescents and adults, and must be adjusted to meet the requirements of each case. If pain returns