104 GANGEENE. process seldom begins as suddenly as that associated with embolism, and like senile gangrene, which it may closely simulate in its early stages, it not infrequently begins after a slight injury to one of the toes. It but rarely, however, assumes the dry, shrivelling type, as a rule being attended with swelling, oedema and dusky redness of the foot, and severe pain. According to Sir James Paget, the dead part remains warm longer than in other forms of senile gangrene; there is a greater tendency for patches of skin at some distance from the primary seat of disease to become gangrenous (Figs. 24, 25); and for the death of tissue to extend upwards in the subcutaneous planes, leaving the overlying skin unaffected. The low vitality of the tissues favours the growth of bacteria, and, if these gain access, the gangrene assumes the characters of the moist type and si^reads rapidly. There is usually a peculiarly offensive odour about the })atient, which differs from that of other forms of moist gangrene. Unless treated by amputation, death usually occurs from coma, toxaemia, or exhaustion. The rules for amputation are the same as those governing the treatment of senile gangrene, the level at which the limb is removed depending upon whether the gangrene is of ■ the dry or moist type. The general treatment for diabetes must, of course, be employed whether amputation is performed or not. Paget recommends that the diatetic treatment should not be so rigid as in uncomplicated diabetes, and that opium should be given freely. The prognosis even after amputation is usually unfavourable. In some cases the patient dies with symptoms of diabetic coma within a few days of the operation. In others there is sloughing of the flaps and death results from toxaemia. Occasionally the other limb becomes gangrenous. Even when the patient sur- vives the operation there is considerable risk of the diabetes proving fatal. A form of gangrene is occasionally met with in robust young persons, even in children, due to a marked degree of angio- sclerosis, with narrowing and thrombosis of the main arteries as well as of the smaller veins. It usually occurs in the feet, is exceedingly painful, and runs a slow, tedious course ; it gener- ally calls for amputation. Gangrene from Ergot.—Gangrene may occur from interference with blood-supply, the result of tetanic contraction of the minute vessels, such as results in ill-nourished jDersons who eat large quantities of coarse rye bread contaminated with the claviceps purpurea and containing the ergot of rye. The process, which