DISEASES OF JOINTS. 676 Bodies composed of organised connective tissue.—Bodies composed of fatty, fibrous, cartilaginous, or bony tissue are com- paratively common in arthritis deformans; they are also met with in certain forms of synovial tuberculosis, and in Charcot’s disease. They result almost exclusively from hyper- trophic changes in the synovial fringes. They may consist of fat—for example, the arborescent lipoma; more commonly the connective-tissue cells of the fringes form fibrous tissue, cartilage, and bone in varying proportions and combinations (Fig. 255). Like other hypertrophies on a free surface, they tend to become polypoidal and j^edunculated, and so acquire a limited range of movement. The pedicle or stalk may give way and the body become free. In this condition it may wander about the joint, or lie snugly in one of its recesses until disturbed by some exaggerated move- ment. It is alleged that a loose body free in a joint is cajmble of growth, deriv- ing the necessary nutriment from the sur- rounding fluid. The size and number of the bodies vary widely. Single specimens have been known to attain the size of the patella. The smaller varieties may number considerably over a Fig. 255. —Loose Bodies hundred. In arthritis deformans a rarer from Knee-joint con- ^ loose body is met with, a portion and bone. articular margins being detached by injury. In Charcot’s Univer^dTy of disease, bodies composed of bone may be formed in relation to the capsular and other ligaments, and can be made to grate upon one another. The clinical features in this group of organised loose bodies are mainly those of the disease which has given rise to them, and it is exceptional to meet with definite symptoms from impaction of the body between the articular surfaces. Treat- ment is to be directed towards the primary disease in the joint, as well as to the removal of the loose bodies. Loose Bodies in Joints which are othenvise Healthy.—It is in joints otherwise healthy that loose bodies causing the classical symptoms and calling for operative treatment are most frequently met with. They occur chiefly in the knee and elbow of healthy males under the age of thirty. The complaint may be of vague pains, which are usually ascribed to rheumatism, of occasional crack- ing on moving the joint, or of inq)airment of function—usually