375 AFFECTIONS OF CICATRICES. A healthy scar, when recently formed, has a smooth, glossy surface of a i)inkish colour, which tends to become whiter as a result of obliteration of the blood-vessels concerned in its formation. Weak Scars.—A scar is said to be weak when it readily breaks down as a result of irritation or pressure. The scars resulting from severe burns are especially liable to break down from trivial causes. The best treatment is to excise the weak portion of the scar and to cover the raw surface with Thiersch grafts. Contracted scars frequently cause deformity either by displacing parts, such as the eyelid or lip, or by fixing parts and preventing the normal movements—for example, a scar on the flexor aspect of a joint (Fig. 55). These are treated by dividing the scar, correcting the deformity, and filling up the gap with Thiersch grafts. When deformity results from dejwession of a scar, as is not uncommon after the healing of a deeply seated abscess or sinus, the best treatment is to excise the scar and bring the edges of the gap together. Another method of elevating depressed scars is by the injection into the subcutaneous tissues of sterilised paraffin. Painful Scars.—Fain in relation to a scar is usually due to the implication of nerves in the cicatricial tissue; the nerve fibres are compressed or stretched, and in some cases an ascending neuritis results. The treatment consists in excising the scar or in stretching or excising-a portion of the nerve affected. Pigmented or Discoloured Scars.—The best-known examples are the blue coloration which results from coal-dust or gun- powder, the brown scars resulting from chronic ulcer with venous congestion of the leg, and the variously coloured scars caused by tattooing. The only satisfactory method of getting rid of the coloration is to excise the scar; the edges are brought together by sutures, or the raw surface covered with Thiersch grafts according to the size of the gap. Hypertrophied Scars.—Scars occasionally broaden out and become prominent, and this may prove a source of disappoint- ment after operations, such as those for goitre or tuberculous glands in the neck. Keloid.—This term is applied to an overgrowth of scar tissue which extends beyond the area of the original wound, and the name is derived from the fact that this extension usually occurs in the form of radiating processes, suggesting the claws of a crab. It is essentially a fibroma or new growth of