SHOCK. 243 matters than his own condition,—as, for example, during tlie lieat of a battle or in the excitement of a railway accident or a conflagration,—even severe injuries may be unattended by pain or shock at the time, although when the period of excitement is over the sevei'ity of the shock is all the greater. The same thing is observed in persons injured while under the influence of alcohol. The explanation of shock usually accepted, largely on the authority of Crile and Mummery, is that the symptoms result from exhaustion of the vaso-motor centre in the medulla, whereby the vascular tone, particularly that of the arteries, is lessened and the Idood pressure falls. Most of the blood is said to leave the arteries and to collect in the large venous trunks, especially those of the abdomen, and there is thus produced an anaemia of the brain and of the superficial parts of the body. At the same time the right side of the heart becomes overloaded, and impeded in its action. The view which best accords with the clinical phenomena, however, is that put forward by J. D. Malcolm, according to whom the disturbance of the vaso-motor centre results, not in dilatation, but in contraction of the arteries. At first the superficial vessels are constricted, and, if the exciting cause is kei>t up, this condition .spreads back to the larger vessels, so that the blood is driven out into the tissues and back into the al)dominal veins. Clinical Features.—The patient is in a state of great pros- tration. He is roused from his condition of indifference with difficulty, but answers questions intelligently, if only in a whisper. The face is pale, beads of sweat stand out on the brow, the features are drawn, the eyes sunken, and the cheeks hollow. The lips and ears are pallid; the skin of the body of a greyish colour, cold, and clammy. The pulse is rapid, fluttering, and often all but imperceptible at the wrist; the respiration is irregular, shallow, and sighing; and the temperature may fall to 96° F. or even lower. The mouth is parched, and the patient complains of thirst. There is little sensibility to pain, and for purposes of operation very little ansesthetic is required to render the patient unconscious. Except in very severe cases, shock tends towards recovery within a few hours, the reaction, as it is called, being often ushered in by vomiting. The colour improves ; the pulse becomes full and bounding; the respiration dee[)er and more regular; the temperature rises to 100° F. or higher; and the patient begins to take notice of his surroundings. In certain cases the symptoms of shock so closely resemble