INJURIES OF NERVES. 333 under the most favourable conditions for repair, and this should be done at the earliest possible opportunity. Primary Suture.—The reunion of a recently divided nerve is spoken of as primary suture, and for its success asepsis is essential. As the suturing of the ends of the nerve is extremely painful, an anajsthetic is required. The wound must be en- larged in the long axis of the affected nerve, as the ends— especially the proximal end—are usually retracted. Having identified the ends and brought them into contact, they are secured to each other by the finest chromicised catgut or silk passed by a round needle, such as is used for the intestine. The sutures are made to transfix the ends of the nerve and the sheath, and should only be drawn tight enough to obtain accurate apposition. Additional sutures may be passed through the sheath around the circumference. If the ends of the nerve are bruised or torn, fresh surfaces .should be obtained by cutting them across. If the nerve is only partially divided, it may be sufficient to pass a few sutures through the sheath. Tension on the sutures may be relieved by flexing adjacent joints and fixing the limb in a splint. When the wound is healed, measures are employed to maintain the nutrition of the damaged nerve and of the parts supplied by it, while waiting for the restoration of function. The limb is exerci.sed, massaged, and douched, and protected from cold and other influences which may provoke trophic changes. The nutrition of the 23aralysed muscles is further imimoved by electricity. The galvanic current is employed, using at first a mild current of not more than five milliamperes for about ten minutes, the current being made to flow downwards in the course of the nerve, with the ])ositive electrode applied to the sj)ine, and the negative over the affected nerve near its termination. It is an advantage to have a key in the circuit whereby the current can be opened and closed at intervals, so as to cause contraction of the muscles. The results of primary suture, when it has been performed under favourable conditions, are usually satisfactory. In a series of cases accurately investigated by Head and Sherren, the i)eriod between the operation and the first return of sensation averaged 65 days. The length of time necessary for the return of sensi- bility to light touch and intermediate degrees of temperature varied, but in the majority of cases it was about one year. The return of voluntary motor power in the j)aralysed muscles and their contractibility to the interru{)ted current averaged 346 days. When sensation returns the area of insensibility to pain steadily diminishes and disa})pears; sensibility to extremes of