458 INJUEIES OF SHOULDER AND UPPER ARM. except that of abduction may be commenced on the third or fourth day. Abduction movements may be commenced a week later, and the circular bandage may then be dispensed with. By the end of a month the patient should be advised to use the arm freely. The sub-clavicular dislocation (Fig. 114) is to be looked upon as an exaggerated degree of the sub-coracoid rather than as a separate variety. It is produced by the same mechanism, but the violence is greater, and the damage to the soft parts more severe. The head passes farther in under cover of the pectoralis minor, resting under the clavicle against the serratus magnus and chest wall. The symptoms are usually so marked that they leave no doubt as to the diagnosis. The outline of the head of the humerus in its abnormal position is visible through the skin, and the shortening of the limb is more marked than in the sub-coracoid variety. The treatment is the same as for sub-coracoid dislocation. Sub-glenoid dislocation (Fig. 114) is less frequently met with than the sub-coracoid variety, and almost always results from forcible abduction of the arm. The head of the humerus passes out through a small rent in the lower and inner portion of the capsule, and rests against the anterior edge of the triangular surface immediately below the glenoid cavity, sup- ported behind by the long head of the triceps, and in front by the subscapularis muscle. It is readily felt in the axilla. All the tendons in relation to the upper end of the humerus are stretched or torn, and the great tuberosity is not infrequently avulsed. There is sometimes bruising of the circumflex nerve. The projection of the acromion, the flattening of the deltoid, the increased depth of the axillary fold, and the abduction of the elbow are very marked; the arm is slightly lengthened, rotated out, and carried forward. It is reduced by the hyper-abduction method (p. 467). Sub-spinous Dislocation.—Backward dislocation is usually termed sub-spinous, although in a considerable proportion of cases the head of the humerus does not pass beyond the root of the acromion process {sub-acromial) (Fig. 114). This dis- location is usually produced by a fall on the elbow, the arm being at the moment adducted and rotated in, so that the head of the humerus is pressed backwards and outwards against the capsule, which ruptures posteriorly. All the muscles attached to the upper end of the humerus are liable to be torn, and the tuberosities are frequently avulsed. In the milder cases the clinical features are not always well