THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 268 some times than at others—in certain cases showing almost a cyclical character—although nothing is known as to the cause of the variation. After a severe Iniemorrhage into the cellular tissue or into a joint, the patient becomes [)ale and anaemic, the temperature may rise to 102° or 103° F., the pulse become small and rapid, and Inemic murmurs are sometimes developed over the heart and large arteries. The swelling is tense, fluctuating, and hot, and there is considerable pain and tenderness. In exceptional cases blisters form over the seat of the effusion, or the skin may even slough, and the clinical features may therefore come to simulate closely those of an acute suppurative condition. The acute symptoms gradually subside, and the effused blood Fig. 58.—Extensive subcutaneous Effusion in case of Hemophilia. The condition .simulated Acute Osteomyelitis of Tibia. is slowly absorbed, the discoloration of the skin passing through the same series of changes as occurs after an ordinary bruise. Prolonged htemorrhage is usually associated with a subnormal temperature. The patients bear the loss of blood remarkably well, and the blood is rapidly regenerated. The diagnosis is usually easy if the patient or his friends are aware of the family tendency to hmmorrhage and inform the surgeon of it, but they are often very sensitive and reticent regarding the fact, and it may only be elicited after close in- vestigation. It is usually easy to exclude scurvy and purpura from the history. Eepeated hsemorrhages into a joint may result in appearances which closely simulate those of tuber- culous disease. Becent hminorrhages into the cellular tissue often present clinical features closely resembling those of acute cellulitis or osteomyelitis (Fig. 58). A careful examination, however, may reveal ecchymoses on other parts of the body which give a clue to the nature of the condition, and may prevent the disastrous consequences which would follow incision of the swelling.