620 DISEASES OF BONE. locomotor ataxia and other chronic diseases of the spinal cord. The bones become porous and brittle, with an excess of fatty marrow, so that they are liable to be fractured by forces which would be insufficient to break a healthy bone. The fragility affects especially the bones of the extremities, and may occur before there are any definite nerve symptoms, but it is more often met with in the ataxic stage, and the abrupt and un- controlled movements may play a considerable part in the causation of the fractures. They may be unattended with pain, and they may fail to unite; when repair does take jilace it is sometimes attended with an excessive formation of callus. Joint lesions of the nature of Charcot’s disease may occur simultaneously with the alterations in the bones. In syringo- myelia pathological fracture is not so frequent as in locomotor ataxia; it is more likely to occur in the bones of the upper extremity, and especially in the humerus. In paralytic dementia and other chronic forms of insanity, a similar porosity and brittleness of bones may be observed, and may result in pathological fracture, especially of the ribs or femur. In some cases of epilepsy the bones may be so brittle that they break when the patient falls in a fit, and the fracture is usually comminuted. Fragilitas Ossium, or Osteopsathyrosis.—These terms are used to include conditions in which there is an undue fragility of the bones without there being any discoverable cause. This may occur in several members of the same family, or there may be no history of heredity. The bones are easily fractured; as a rule they unite normally, but in some cases union is much delayed and is associated with deformity. The fractures may occur before birth, or at any period of extra-uterine life. Skiagrams show an extraordinary atrophy of the diaphyses of the long bones, while the epiphyses and the joints are normal. Hypertrophic Pulmonary Osteo-Arthropathy.—This condi- tion, which was described by Marie in 1890, is nearly always secondary to disease in the chest, such as chronic phthisis, empyema, bronchiectasis, or sarcoma of the lung. There is symmetrical enlargement and deformity of the hands and feet; the shafts of the bones are thickened, and the soft tissues of the terminal segments of the digits hypertrophied. The fingers come to resemble drum-sticks, and the thumbs the clapper of a bell. The nails are convex, and incurved at their free ends, suggesting a resemblance to the beak of a parrot. There is also enlargement of the lower ends of the bones of the forearm and leg, and effusions into the wrist and ankle-joints.