CLINICAL VARIETIES OF GANGRENE. 95 Moist Gangrene is an acute process, the dead part retaining its Huids, and so affording a favourable soil for the develop- ment of jmtrefactive or pyogenic bacteria. The action of the organisms, their toxins, and the inflammatory exudates on the adjacent tissues, leads to a rapid and wide spread of the process. The formation of a sulphide of iron by decomposition of the blood pigment gives to the tissues a greenish-black colour. The putrefactive gases evolved cause the tissues to become emphysematous and crepitant. The skin becomes moist and macerated, and bullai, containing dark-coloured fluid or gases, form under the epidermis. There is always an offensive putrid odour. Under certain conditions the dead part may undergo changes resembling more closely those of ordinary post-mortem decomposition. Owing to its nature the process seldom spon- taneously arrests itself, but usually continues to spread, and proves fatal from the absorption of toxins into the circulation. The clinical features vary in the different varieties of moist gangrene, but in all we have the local results of bacterial action more or less marked; and the usual constitutional disturbances associated with septic intoxication are present. The prognosis in moist gangrene is always grave in the extreme. From what has been said it will be gathered that in dry gangrene there is no urgent call for operation to save the patient’s life, the primary indication being to prevent the access of bacteria to the dead part, and especially to the raw surface exposed in the line of demarcation. In moist gangrene, on the contrary, the organisms having already obtained a footing, immediate removal of the dead and dying tissues, as a rule, offers the only hope of saving life. Clinical Varieties op Gangrene. As has already been pointed out, the factor which plays the most important rd/e in determining whether a given case of gangrene belongs to the moist or the dry type is the presence or absence of bacterial infection. The different forms which gangrene assumes clinically are so varied that it is difficult to devise a simple classiflcation. For practical purposes, however, they may be divided into two great classes : I. Those in which the gangrene is essentially due to interference with the circulation; and II. Those in which it is essentially due to bacterial infection. Gangrene essentially due to Interference with the Circulation.—This group includes the various forms of local