.108 GANGRENE. the skin, and the tissues have “a peculiar heavy but not putrid odour.” The general constitutional efl'ects of the disease are extremely severe, and death may ensue within a few hours. The treatment is the same as that of acute infective gangrene, and the prognosis is even less hopeful. In animals immunity can be produced by repeated injections of sterilised cultures or of the filtered serum of animals which have died of the disease. Cancrum Oris or Noma.—This disease is believed to be due to a specific bacillus, which occurs in long delicate rods, and is chiefly found at the margin of the gangrenous area. It is most prone to attack unhealthy children from two to flve years of age, especially during their convalescence from such diseases as measles, scarlet fever, or typhoid, but may attack adults when they are debilitated. It is most common in the mouth, but sometimes occurs on the vulva. In the mouth it begins as an ulcerative stomatitis, more especially affecting the gums or inner aspect of the cheek. The child lies prostrated, and from the open mouth foul-smelling saliva, streaked with blood, escapes; the face is of an ashy-grey colour, the lips dark-red and swollen. On the inner aspect of the cheek is a deeply ulcerated surface, with sloughy shreds of dark-brown or black tissue covering its base; the edges are irregular, firm, and swollen, and the surrounding mucous membrane is inflamed and oedematous. In the course of a few hours a dark spot appears on the outer aspect of the cheek and rapidly increases in size; towards the centre it is black, shading off through blue and grey into a dark-red inflamed area which extends over the cheek. The tissue implicated is at first Arm and indurated, but as it loses its vitality it becomes doughy and sodden. Finally a slough forms, perforating the cheek. Meanwhile the process spreads in.side the mouth, so that the gums, the floor of the mouth, or even the jaws become gangrenous and the teeth fall out. The constitutional disturbance is severe, the temperature raised, and the pulse feeble and rapid. The extremely foetid odour which pervades the room or even the house the patient occupies, is usually sufficient to suggest the diagnosis of cancrum oris. It must not be mistaken for the decomposition of sordes on the teeth and gums of a debilitated patient. It is most important to recognise the disease early, otherwise treatment is of no avail. The prognosis is always grave in the extreme, the main risks being general toxiemia and septic pneumonia. Treatment.—The only satisfactory treatment is the thorough