320 THE LYMPHATICS. organisms are sometimes carried to the glands by the blood- stream. The tuberculous infection may supervene in glands which are already enlarged as a result of chronic septic irritation, or in glands which are healthy. While any of the glands in the body may be affected, the disease is most often met with in the groups of cervical glands which derive their lymph from the mouth, nose, throat, ear, and scalp. The appearance of the glands on section varies with the stage of the disease. In the earliest stages the gland is enlarged, it may be to many times its natural size, is normal in colour, and firm in consistence without any infiltration or adhesion of the capsule, so that it is easily shelled out from its surroundings. On microscopical examination, however, there is evidence of tuberculous infection in the shape of bacilli and of characteristic giant and epithelioid cells. At a later stage the gland tissue is studded with minute yellow caseating foci which tend to enlarge and in time to become confluent, so that the whole gland is ultimately converted into a caseous mass. This caseous material is surrounded by the thickened capsule which, as a result of peri-adenitis, tends to become adherent to and fused with surrounding structures, and particularly with layers of fascia and with the walls of veins. The caseated tissue may become calcified, but more frequently it liquefies and breaks down into tuberculous pus. Disease in the cervical glands is a common accompaniment or sequel of adenoids, enlarged tonsils, carious teeth, pharyngitis, middle-ear disease, conjunctivitis, and suppurative lesions of the scalp, such as impetigo. These lesions afford the bacilli a chance of entry into the lymphatics, in which they are carried to the glands of the neck, where they give rise to tuberculous disease. In the neck the enlargement may affect only one gland, usually below the angle of the jaw, and remain confined to it. The enlarged gland varies in size from a hazel nut to a walnut’ is ovoid, firm, and painless. More commonly the disease affects several glands, and the glands on one and sometimes on both sides of the neck may be involved. When the disease commences in the pre-auricular or submaxillary glands, it tends to spread to those along the carotid sheath. When the posterior auricular and occipital glands are first involved, the spread is to those along the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid. In many cases all the various chains in front of, beneath, and behind this muscle are involved, the enlarged glands extending from the mastoid to the clavicle. When several glands are affected, they are at first discrete and movable.