250 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. the blood. These valves are composed of semilunar folds of the tunica intima strengthened by an addition of connective tissue. Each valve usually consists of two semilunar flaps attached to opposite sides of the vessel wall, each flap having a small sinus on its cardiac side. The distension of these sinuses with blood closes the valve and prevents regurgitation. Valves are absent from the superior and inferior venae cavfe, the portal vein and its tributaries, the hepatic, renal, uterine, and spermatic veins, and from the veins in the lower jtart of the rectum. They are ill-developed or absent also in the iliac and common femoral veins—a fact which has an important bearing on the production of vari.x in the veins of the lower extremity. The wall of capillaries consists of a single layer of endothelial cells. In.juries of Arteries. The following description of the injuries of arteries refers entirely to the larger, named trunks. The injuries of smaller, unnamed vessels are included in the consideration of contusions and wounds. The injuries to which the larger arteries are liable are : contusion, subcutaneous rupture, laceration with an open wound, and punctured, incised, and gun-shot wounds. Contusion.—An artery may be contused by a blow or crush, or by the oblique impact of a bullet. The bruising of the vessel wall, especially if atheroma is present, may result in the formation of a thrombus which occludes the lumen temporarily or even permanently, and in rare cases may lead to gangrene. Subcutaneous Eupture.—An artery may be ruptured sub- cutaneously by a blow or crush, or by a displaced fragment of bone. This injury has been produced also during attempts to reduce dislocations, especially those of old standing at the shoulder-joint. It is most liable to occur when the vessels are atheromatous. The rupture may be incomplete or complete. Incomplete Eupture.—In the majority of cases the rupture is incomplete—the inner and middle coats being torn, while the outer coat remains intact. The middle coat contracts and re- tracts, and the internal, because of its elasticity, curls up in the interior of the vessel, forming a valvular obstruction to the blood- flow. In most cases this results in the formation of a thrombus which occludes the vessel. In some cases the blood pressure gradually distends the injured segment of the vessel wall and produces an aneurysm. The pulsation in the vessels beyond the seat of rupture is almost always arrested—for a time at least—owing to the occlusion of the vessel, and the limb becomes cold and powerless.