CARCINOMATA OR CANCERS. 203 Carcinomata or Cancers. A cancer is a malignant tninour wliicli originates in epithelium. The cells which form the essential constituent of a cancer are derived by proliferation from already existing epithelium, and they invade the sub-epithelial connective tissue in the form of simple or branching columns. These columns are enclosed in spaces—termed alveoli—which are jirobalily dilated lymphatic spaces, and which communicate freely with the lymphatic vessels. The cells composing the columns and filling the alveoli vary with the character of the epithelium in which the cancer originates. The malignancy of cancer depends on this ca}>acity which the epithelium has of invading the tissues in its neighbour- hood, and on the capacity of the cells, when transported elsewhere by the lymph or blood-stream, of giving rise to secondary growths. Cancer may arise on any surface covered by epithelium or in any of the secreting glands of the body, bnt it is much more common in some situations than in others. It is very frequently met with, for example, in the .skin, in certain portions of the alimentary canal, in the breast, the uterus, and the external genitals; less frequently. in the gall-bladder, larynx, thyroid, prostate, kidney, and urinary bladder. Cancers increase in frequency as life advances. Cancers of the stomach appear and attain a maximum frequency earlier than cancers of the skin; cancers of the uterus and mamma are more frequent towards the decline of reproductive activity than in the later years of life. Tissues appear to be most liable to cancer when, having attained maturity, they enter upon the phase of decadence or involution, and this phase is reached liy different tissues at different periods in the life of the organism. It is not so much, therefore, the age of the person in whom it occurs, as the age of the tissue in which it arises, that deter- mines the maximum incidence of cancer. A cancer may appear as a papillary growth from a mucous or a skin surface, as an imperfectly circumscribed nodule in the substance of an organ, or as a diffuse thickening of a tubular structure such as the intestine or stomach. The absence of definition in cancerous tumours explains the difficulty in completely removing them by surgical measures, and has led to the practice of complete extirpation of cancerous organs wherever this is possible. The boundaries of the affected organ are, moreover, fre(|uently transgressed by the tumour, and the epithelial infiltration implicates the surrounding parts. In cancer