172 SYPHILIS. rid of in the first instance by means of a boracic poultice, after which a piece of lint or gauze cut to the size of the ulcer and soaked in black wash is applied and covered with oil-silk. If the ulcer tends to spread in area or in depth, it should be scraped with a sharp spoon, and painted over with pure carbolic acid or acid nitrate of mercury. In lesions of the mouth and throat, the teeth should be attended to with special care; the best local application is a solution of chromic acid—ten grains to the ounce—painted on with a brush once daily or every alternate day. If this fails, the lesions may be dusted the last thing at night with calomel. For deep ulcers of the throat the patient should gargle frequently with chlorine water or with perchloride of mercury (1 in 2000); if the ulcer continues to spread it should be painted with acid nitrate of mercury. In the treatment of iritis the eyes are shaded from the light and completely rested, and the pupil is well dilated by atropin in order to prevent adhesions. If there is much pain a blister may be applied to the temple. The Relations of Syphilis to Marriage.—Even under the most favourable conditions, no patient should be allowed to marry until three years have elapsed after the last manifestation has disapj^eared. While marriage may be entered upon under these conditions without risk of the husband infecting the wife, the possibility of his conveying the disease to the offspring cannot be absolutely excluded. It has been recommended as a pre- cautionary measure, to give a further mercurial course of two or three months’ duration before marriage. In view of the fact that women who have suffered from syphilis retain the liability to transmit the disease to their offspring much longer than men, the responsibility of permitting them to marry should rarely, if ever, be undertaken. Intermediate Stage.—After the dying away of the secondary manifestations and before the appearance of tertiary lesions, the patient may present certain symptoms which Hutchinson has called reminders. These usually consist of relapses of certain of the affections of the skin, mouth, or throat, already described. In the skin, they may assnme the form of peeling patches in the palms. O’’ may appear as spreading and confluent circles of a scaly papular eruption, which if neglected may lead to the formation of fissures and superficial ulcers. They are easily cured but readily relapse. Less frequently there is a relapse of the eye affections, or of paralytic symptoms from disease of the cerebral arteries.