ACQUIEED SYPHILIS. 169 lesions of the mouth and throat he should use tobacco in moderation, his teeth should be thoroughly overhauled by the dentist, and he should brush them after every meal, using an antiseptic tooth powder or wash. The mouth and throat should be rinsed out night and morning with a solution of chlorate of pota.sh and alum. The Administration of Mercury.—As soon as the diagnosis is established, the patient should be brought under the influence of mercury, as this drug is the only specific remedy for syphilis. The amount of mercury to be given in any case must be pro- portioned to the idiosyncrasies of the patient. The dose is at first gradually increased until there appears a trace of soreness at the edge of the gums ; it is then diminished so as just to fall short of producing this effect. Having thus discovered the proper dose for the individual, it should be continued for two years unless any contra-indication develops. If the body weight falls, or if the gums become sore and the breath foul, the mercury should be stopped for a time. If there is actual salivation, the drinking of hot water and the taking of hot baths should be insisted upon, and half-dram doses of the alkaline sulphates prescribed. The toilet of the teeth and mouth, which is so essential during a course of mercury, has already been referred to. Methods of Administering Alercury.-—(1) By the Mouth.— This has long been the most popular method in this country, the i)reparation usually employed being grey powder, in pills or tablets, each of which contains one grain of the powder. Three of these are given daily in the first instance, and the daily dose is increased to five or even seven grains till the standard for the individual patient is arrived at. As the grey powder alone sometimes causes irritation of the bowels, it should be combined with iron, as in the following formula :—Hydrarg. c. cret. gr. 1 ; ferri sulph. exsiccat. gr. 1 or 2. When the grey powder fails to relieve or does not agree with the patient, some other preparation may be substituted, such as the green iodide of mercury, in doses of quarter or half a grain, gradually raised to one grain three times a day ; or the liquor of the perchloride of mercury in dram doses. (2) By Inunction.—Inunction consists in rubbing into the skin an ointment composed of equal parts of 20 per cent, oleate of mercury and lanolin. Every night, or night and morning, after a hot bath, a portion of the ointment about the size of a hazel nut is rubbed for fifteen minutes into the skin where it is soft and comparatively free from hairs. Different parts of the