739 CLUB-FOOT. evidence of intra-uterine fract.ure of the tibia, but the observa- tions of Hoffa show that botli the bend of the bone and the depression on the skin are due to pressure exercised upon the leg from without by an amniotic band or adhe.sion. The leg fails to grow, the deformity becomes more pronounced, and the toes become pointed. If the tiliia is markedly bent, it may be straightened by osteotomy. If the ankle is unstable as a result of the absence of the external malleolus, it may be artificially ankylosed, or the lower end of the tibia may be split vertically so as to make a socket for the astragalus. In either case, the foot is placed in the equinus attitude to compensate for the shortening of the leg. Deficiency of the tibia is frequently associated with imperfect development of the great toe; de- ficiency of the fibula with absence of the outer toes and their metatarsal bones. Volhncmn’s Sujmi-m.alleohir Deformity.—This term is ap[ilied to a congenital fleficiency in the development of the bones of the leg, and specially of the fibula, as a result of which the articular surface is oblique and the foot deviates to one or other side. The foot usually occupies a valgus position, the sole look- ing outwards, and only its inner border l)eing in contact with the ground. It is treated l)y supra-malleolar osteotomy. Deformities of the Foot. Various deformities are met with in the region of the ankle and tar-sus. The term “ talipes ” is commonly used to include all these, but here will be restricted to that form in which the heel is more or less elevated, and the foot supinated so that it rests on its outer border—talijjes equino-vnrus or cliib-foot. In pes eq^dnun the foot is in the position of pi an tar-flexion, and the patient walks on the toes. In pes calcaneus the foot is dorsi- fiexed so that the tij) of the heel comes in contact with the ground. This deformity may be combined with eversion of the foot, j)es calcaneo-valgvs, or with inversion, yjc.s calcaneo-varus. When the instep is unduly arched the terms qxs cavus, pes arcuatus or holloa) claw-foot are employed; while loss of the arch constitutes fat-foot or pes valgus. Club-foot. Talipes Equino-varus.—This deformity may be congenital or acquired. Congenital talipes equino-varus is a very common malforma-