TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. r>55 appearance, such as starting pains, tlie formation of abscess and of sinuses, displacement or even dislocation of the l)Oues. Under an anaesthetic the joint may be foimd to be completely disorganised, with destruction of ligaments, abnormal mobility, and grating of the articular siu'faces. Cm'ies sicca is the name given l)y Volkmann to a very chronic form of tuberculous arthritis, which is met with chiefly in the shoulder and hip, between the ages of fifteen and tiiirty-five. There is an entire absence of swelling, a characteristic wasting of all the structures in the vicinity of the joint, and the bony prominences—such as the acromion and coracoid in the case of the shoulder, and the trochanter at the hip—stand out prominently. Passive movements are restricted and are attended with severe pain. The general health usually remains unim- paired in s})ite of the long duration of the disease. Siq^puration is exceptional, and when it occurs is usually associated with the presence of a sequestrum. Influence of tuherculous Joint Disease on the General Health. —Experience shows that the early stages of tuberculous joint disease may be compatible with the a2)peaiunce of good health. As a rule, however, the general health suffers, the appetite is impaired, the patient is easily tired and complains of failure of strength, and there may be considerable loss of flesh. Tuberculous disease of the lung is a frequent concomitant in adults, and may be present before the joint disease, or may appear later. In children, acute miliary tuberculosis may occur, and the clinical features are frequently those of tuberculous meningitis ; it sometimes follows on comparatively trivial opera- tions, and is usually rapidly fatal. Diagnosis.—In typical cases the diagnosis is usually easy. A history of tuberculosis in the family, or of other tuberculous lesions in the patient, an insidious onset, and the fact that there is a considerable interval between the receipt of an alleged injury and the appearance of symptoms, all suggest the tuberculous origin of a given case of joint disease. The X-rays are of value chiefly in the recognition of osseous lesions. The use of Koch’s tuberculin for diagnostic purposes is to be recom- mended in obscure cases. A minimum dose, which rarely exceeds 6 mg., is injected into the deltoid ; this is followed by a general reaction—pyrexia with nausea,—and by a temporary intensifica- tion of the local signs—pain, tenderness, and muscular fixation. The jwognosis depends Tipon so many factors that it is impossible to make any general statement regarding it.