764 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. pectoralis major from its tendon of insertion and stitching it to the serratus magnus so as to take on the function of this muscle. Displacement of the scapula upwards and outwards, has been observed as a result of partial paralysis of the trapezius when the spinal accessory nerve has been divided in removing tuberculous glands from the neck. In these acquired displacements, treatment is directed towards the nerve lesion and towards the improvement of the muscles by electricity, massage, and exercises. Congenital Dislocation of the Shoulder.—This rare condition is usually bilateral and is associ- ated with other congenital defects. The glenoid cavity is deformed or absent altogether, and the dislocation may be subcoracoid, subacromial, or subspinous. The movements of the arm are re- stricted, and the development of the extremity as a whole is in- terfered with. The condition is treated on the same lines as con- genital dislocation of the hip; I reducing the dislocation by mani- pulation, or, if this fails, by operation. Paralytic Deformities. — Paralytic Dislocation of the Shoulder.—The muscles in the region of the shoulder may have their innervation interfered with as a result of various conditions, of which infantile paralysis and injuries of the brachial jdexus at birth are the most important. The capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint being no longer kept tense by the scapular muscles —especially the deltoid and external rotators—becomes relaxed, and is stretched by the weight of the arm. The appearances are characteristic. The muscles of the shoulder are wasted, the acromion is prominent, and between it and the upper end of the humerus there is a marked hollow into which one or more fingers may be inserted. The arm hangs flaccid by the side, rotated inwards and pronated, and moves in a flail-like fashion in all directions, the patient having very little control over it. The best results are obtained by the transplantation of muscles; the Pig. 307. — Winged Scapula ; the patient is holding tlie arras out in front.