380 MUSCLES, TENDONS, & TENDON SHEATHS. laborious occupations. It may follow upon a single or on repeated efforts—especially in those who are out of training. Familiar examples of muscular sprain are'the “labourer’s” or “golfer’s back,” affecting the latissimus dor si or erector spinte; the “tennis-player’s elbow,” affecting the pronator radii teres; the “ angler’s elbow,” affecting the common origin of the extensors and supinators ; the “sprinter’s sprain,’’affecting the flexors of the hip ; and the “jumper’s sprain,” affecting the muscles of the calf. The patient complains of pain, often sudden in onset, of tender- ness on pressure, and of inability to carry out the particular movement by which the sju-ain was produced. The disability varies in different cases, and it may incapacitate the patient from following his occupation or sport for weeks or even months. The treatment consists in resting the muscle from the par- ticular effort concerned in the production of the sprain, in gently exercising it in other directions, and in the use of massage. Rupture of Muscle or Tendon.—A muscle or a tendon may be ruptured in its continuity or torn from its attachment to bone. The site of rupture in individual muscles is remarkably constant, and is usually at the junction of the muscle with its tendon. When rupture takes place through the belly of a muscle the ends retract, the amount of retraction depending on the length of the muscle between its points of attachment, and the extent of its attachment to adjacent aponeurosis or bone. The biceps in the arm, and the sartorius in the thigh, furnish examples of muscles in which the separation between the ends may be considerable. The gap in the muscle becomes filled with blood, and this in time is replaced by connective tissue, which forms a bond of union between the ends. When the space is considerable the connecting medium consists of fibrous tissue, but when the ends are approximated it contains a number of newly formed muscle fibres. In the process of repair, one or both ends of the muscle or tendon may become fixed by adhesions to adjacent structures, and if the distal portion of a muscle is deprived of its nerve supply it may undergo degeneration and so have its function interfered with. Rupture of a muscle or tendon is usually the result of a sudden, and often involuntary, movement. As examples may be cited the rupture of the quadriceps extensor in attempting to regain the balance when falling; of the gastrocnemius, plantaris, or tendo Achillis in jumping or dancing; of the adductors of the thigh in gripping a horse when it swerves; of the abdominal muscles in vomiting, and of the biceps flexor cubiti in sudden