HiEMORRHAGE. 261 of the pelvis, midway between the symphysis [)ubis and the anterior superior iliac spine. The abdominal aorta may be compressed against the bodies of the lumbar vertebne opposite the umbilicus, if the spine is arched well forwards over a pillow or sand-bag. The best method is that suggested by Macewen, in which the patient’s spine is arched forwards by allowing the lower extremities and pelvis to hang over the lower end of the table, while the assistant, standing on a stool, applies his closed fist over the abdominal aorta and compresses it against the vertebral column. Arrest of Haemorrhage. — The actual cautery, douching with very hot water, the local application of styptics, and the internal administration of drugs have a limited field of u.sefulness in the treatment of surgical luemorrhage. Ligature. — This is the best means of securing the larger vessels. The divided vessel having been caught with forceps as near to its cut end as possible, a ligature, preferably of some absorbable material such as catgut or kangaroo tendon, is tied round it. Fine silk may be preferred, on account of the greater certainty with which it can be sterilised. Torsion.—This method is seldom employed except for com- paratively small vessels, but it is applicable to even the largest arteries. In employing torsion, the end of the vessel is caught with forceps, and the terminal portion twisted round several times. The object is to tear the inner and middle coats of the vessel so that they curl ujj inside the lumen, while the outer fibrous coat is twisted into a cord which occludes the end of the vessel. Forcigjyessure.—Bleeding from the smallest arteries and from arterioles can usually be arrested by firmly squeezing them for a few minutes with serrated or grooved artery forceps, such as those of 8})encer Wells, Kocher, or Ochsner. It is usually found that on the removal of the forceps at the end of an oi)eration no further htemorrhage takes place from these vessels. By the use of specially strong clamps, such as those of Doyen, large trunks may be occluded by pressure. Cautery.—The actual cautery or Paquelin’s thermo-cautery is seldom employed to arrest hiemorrhage, but is frequently useful in preventing it, as, for example, in the removal of piles, or in opening the bowel in colostomy. It is used at a dull-red heat, which sears the divided ends of the vessels and so occludes the lumen. A bright-red or a white heat cuts the vessel across without occluding it. The separation of the slough pro- duced by the charring of the tissues is sometimes attended with