84 ULCERATION AND ULCERS. for a healing sore is a layer of Lister’s perforated oiled- silk protective, which is made to cover the raw surface and the skin for about a quarter of an inch beyond the margins of the sore. Over this three or four thicknesses of sterilised gauze, wrung out of boracic lotion or stei’ilised water, are applied, and covered by a pad of antiseptic absorbent wool. A splint is ap- plied to ensure rest, and the part is elevated to avoid congestion. The dressing may be renewed every two or three days, and care must be taken to avoid any rough handling of the sore. Any discharge which lies on the surface should be removed by a gentle stream of lotion rather than by wiping. The area around the sore should be carefully cleansed before the fresh dressing is applied. In some cases healing goes on more rapidly under a dressing of weak boracic ointment (one - quarter the strength of the pharmacopgeial preparation). Dusting powders and poultice dressings are best avoided in the treatment of healing sores. Treatment of Special Varieties of Ulcers.—^Before begin- ning to treat a given ulcer two questions have to be answered— first. What are the causal conditions present ? and second. In what condition do I find the ulcer 1—in other words. In what particulars does it differ from a healthy healing sore ? If the cause is a local one, it must be removed; if a con- stitutional one, means must l)e taken to counteract it. ' This done, the condition of the ulcer must be so modified as to bring it into the state of a healing sore, after which it will be managed on the lines already laid down. Treatment in relation to the Cause of the Ulcer.—Trau- matic Group. — The prophylaxis of these ulcers consists in rigidly excluding bacteria, by cleansing crushed or bruised parts, and applying sterilised dressings and properly adjusted splints. These measures will often prevent a grossly injured portion of skin dying, and will ensure its asepticity should it do so. In the event of the skin giving way, the same form of dressing should be continued till the slough has separated and a healthy granulating surface is formed. The protective dressing appropriate to a healing sore is then substituted. Pressure sores are treated on the same lines. The treatment of hums and scalds will be described later. In the case of tdeers due to interference with the venous return, the primary indication is to elevate the limb to facilitate the free flow of the blood in the veins. Should varicose veins be present, the question of operative treatment must be considered.