FEACTURES OF LOWER END OF HUMERUS. 473 tlie front of tlie joint, witli the brachial artery and biceps tendon to its outer side. The musculo-spiral nerve divides into its radial and posterior interosseous branches at the level of the outer condyle. In examining an injured elbow, the thumb and middle finger are placed respectively on the two epicondyles, while the index locates the olecranon and traces its movements on flexion and extension of the joint. The movements of the head of the radius are best detected by pressing the thumb of one hand into the depression below the external condyle, while movements of pronation and supination are carried out by the other hand. The uninjured limb should always be examined for purposes of comparison. In all forms of injury about the elbow much aid in diagnosis is obtained by the use of the X-rays. In cases of suspected fracture, a radiogram should be taken with the back of the limb resting on the sensitive plate, the forearm being extended and supinated. If a dis- location is susjiected and a lateral view is desired, the arm should be placed on its inner side. It is useful to take radiograms of the healthy limb in the same position. Fractuee.s of the Lower End of the Humerds. The following fractures occur at the lower end of the humerus: (1) supra-condylar fracture; (2) inter-condylar fracture; (3) separation of epiphyses; (4) fracture of either condyle alone; and (5) fracture of either epicondyle alone. All these injuries are common in children, and may result from a direct fall or blow upon the elboAV, or from a fall on the outstretched hand, especially when at the same time the joints are forcibly moved beyond their physiological limits, more particularly in the direction of pronation or abduction. While it is generally easy to diagnose the existence of a fracture, it is often exceedingly difficult to determine its exact nature. Although the ulnar and median nerves are liable to be injured in almost any of these fractures, they suffer much less frequently than might be expected. Ankylosis, or, more frequently, locking of the joint, is a common sequel to many of these injuries. This is explained by the difficulty of effecting complete reduction, and by the wide separation of periosteum which often occurs, favouring the pro- duction of an excessive amount of callus, particularly in young subjects. The supra-condylar fracture usually results from a fall on the outstretched hand with the forearm partly flexed, from a direct blow, or from a twisting form of violence. The line of fracture is generally transverse, or but slightly oblique from behind downwards and forwards, so that the lower fragment is forced backward together with the bones of the forearm, simulating