THE KNEE-JOINT. 709 it is uneven or nodular, it does not correspond to the sliape of the synovial membrane but may extend beyond the limits of the joint, and it involves the bone to a greater extent than is usual in cases of joint disease. Skiagrams show expansion of the bone in central tumours, or abundant new bone in cases of ossifying sarcoma. In difficult cases recourse should be had to exploratory incision. The diagnosis of bleeder’s knee is to be made chiefly from the history. (5) Primary TtihercAdous Disease in the Bones of the Knee. —So long as the foci are confined to the interior of the bone it is usually impossible to recognise their existence, unless they are of sufficient size to cause enlargement of the bone or to be recognisable in a skiagram. (a) If the focus reaches the surface of the bone outside the limits of the synovial membrane, there is tenderness on pressure, pain in walking and i>robably a limp, and a cold abscess may develop. The joint, although perhaps a little sensitive and restricted in its movement, and in some cases the seat of a serous effusion, may not itself become infected with tubercle. (6) If the focus reaches the surface of the bone at the level of the reflection of the synovial niend^rane, the mendjrane becomes thickened at the site of infection in the first instance, but as time goes on, it becomes infected throughout, just as in primary synovial disease. The cliiucal features are similar to those described under the head of diffuse thickening of the synovial membrane—only they arc apt to be more severe and to progress more rapidly, and to be associated with abscess formation in the vicinity of the osseous focus. (c) If the focus reaches the surface of the bone where it is covered by articular cartilage, the latter is perforated or detached, and the joint becomes infected. The symptoms vary with the nature of the perforation and the amount of infective material thrown into the joint. The resulting joint disease may evolve gradually and assume the characters of a dry arthritis, with pain, rigidity, and tendency towards fibrous ankylosis, or it may develoiJ suddenly and progress rapidly towards su}>puration and disorganisation of the joint. Tuberculous disease, attended only with symptoms of involvement of the articular surfaces, is to be differentiated from arthritis deformans and from hysterical knee. The formation of extra-articular abscess in tuberculous disease of the knee takes place in rather more than fifty per cent of cases. Abscesses may originate in the substance of the synovial membrane, within the synovial cavity or in one of its compartments, in the surrounding cellular tissue, or in relation