492 INJURIES OF ELBOW AND FOREARM. usually necessary to continue wearing the splints for about three weeks. In cases of mal-wnion, especially when the bones are ankylosed to one another across the interosseous space, operation may be necessary, but it is neither easy in its performance nor always satisfactory in its results. The seat of fracture should be exposed by one or more incisions so placed as to enable the muscles to be separated and to give access to the callus. When the limb is straight it is only necessary to gouge away the exuberant callus which interferes with rota- tory movements ; but when there is an angular deformity (Fig. 146) the bones must, in addition, be divided and reset, and, if necessary, wired in good position. In com- paratively recent cases it is some- times possible without oj^eration to refracture the bones, and to set them anew. U'l-united fracture of the bones of the forearm is treated on the usual lines. Fracture of the shaft of the radius alone may be due to a direct blow; to indirect violence, such as a fall on the hand, or the recoil of the lever in starting the engine of a motor car; or to forc- ible pronation against resistance, as in wringing clothes. It is rare in comparison with fracture of both bones. When broken above the insertion of the pronator radii teres, the upper fragment is flexed and supinated by the biceps and supinator brevis, while the lower fragment remains semi- prone, and is drawn towards the ulna by the pronator quadratus. When the fracture is below the pronator radii teres the displacement depends upon the direction of the force and the obliquity of the fracture. In fractures of the lower third of the shaft, the hand may be flexed toward the radial side, raising the styloid process, as in a Colles’ fracture. In addition to the ordinary signs of fracture, there is partial or complete loss of pronation and supination. The head of the radius as a rule does not move with the lower part of the shaft, but may do so if the fracture is incomplete or impacted. of both Bones of Forearm. Boy ret. 1]. Probably an unreduced greenstick fracture.