75.3 FLAT-FOOT. usually cold and damp, and sweat excessively. The gait is slouching, and there is a want of spring and elasticity. The boots after being worn show a bulging of the instep towards the sole, greater wearing away of the sole along the inner border, and, when there is hallux rigidus, an absence of the transverse crease on the dorsum opposite the balls of the toes. Footprints may be obtained by wetting the soles of the feet and asking the patient to stand. The print of a normal foot shows only the heel, the outer border of the foot, and the balls and tips of the toes. In flat-foot the inner border appears in the print to a greater or less extent (Fig. 299). The prints should be taken on smoked paper if a record is wanted to estimate the progress of treatment. Treatment.—This is directed towards restoring and maintain- ing the arch of the foot. As the measures adopted necessarily vary with the extent to which the deformity has progressed, it is convenient for purposes of treatment to recognise the following four degrees. A first degree in which the arch reappears >vhen the weight is taken off the foot or the patient rises on the balls of the toes ; a second, in which the normal attitude can be restored by the manipulations of the surgeon; a third, in which this is only possible in narcosis ; a fourth, in which the bones are so displaced and altered in shape that correction is impossible without an open operation. Gases of the First Degree.—If there is marked pain and tenderness the patient must lie up. The general health is impi'oved by a nourishing diet and by cod-liver oil and tonics. The legs and feet are douched and gently massaged thrice daily. When pain and tenderness have disa})})eared the patient is instructed how to walk and exercise the feet. In walking the inner edges of the feet should bo parallel with one another, the heel should touch the ground first and then the balls of the toes. He should neither stand nor walk long enough to cause fatigue, and in standing he should alter the attitude of the feet from time to time, and occasionally rise on the balls of the toes. The following exercises, devised by Ellis of Gloucester, should be practised: (1) Rising on the balls of the toes, the toes being directed straight forwards; (2) rising on the balls of the toes, with the points of the great toes touching each other, and the heels directed out, so that the inner borders of the feet meet in front at a right angle ; (.3) in the same attitude, having risen on to the balls of the toes, the knees are flexed and then extended before the heels descend again; (4) while seated in a chair one leg V^OL. I—48