DISEASES OF JOINTS. 650 and ankle exhibit little age preference, but are affected chiefly during childhood and youth. The wrist and shoulder are rarely affected in children. Clinical Features.—These vary with the different anatomical forms of the disease, with the joint affected, and with the indi- vidual tendencies of the patient. The symptoms do not always correspond with the nature and severity of the local lesions, and it is not uncommon to find, when the joint is exposed by operation, that the disease is much more extensive than might have been inferred from the clinical features. Sometimes the disease is ushered in by a febrile attack attended with pains in several joints — described by John Duncan as the “ Tuberculous arthritic fever.” This is liable to be mistaken for rheumatic fever, from which, however, it differs in that there is no real migration from joint to joint ; there is an absence of sweating and of visceral complications ; and no benefit follows the administration of salicylates. In exceptional cases, tuberculous joint disease follows an acute course resembling that of the pyogenic arthritis of infants. This has been observed in young children, especially in the knee, the lesion being in the synovial membrane, and attended with an accumulation of pus in the joint. If promptly treated by incision and drainage recovery is rapid, and free movement of the joint may be preserved. The onset and early stages of tuberculous disease, however, are more often insidious, and are attended with so few symptoms that the disease may have obtained a considerable hold before it attracts definite notice. It is not uncommon for patients or their friends to attribute the disease to injury, as it often first attracts attention after some slight trauma or excessive use of the limb. The symptoms may subside under rest, only to relapse again with use of the limb, and this may occur rejjeatedly. The initial local symptoms may be those associated with the presence of a focus in the neighbouring bone, perhaps causing neuralgic pains in the joint, or weakness, tiredness, stiffness, and inability to use the limb, these symptoms improving with rest and being aggravated by exertion. It is rarely possible by external examination to recognise deep-seated osseous foci in the vicinity of joints ; but if they are near the surface in a superficial bone—such as the head of the tibia—there may be local thickening of the periosteum, oedema, pain, and tenderness on pressure and on percussion. Large foci may be revealed by the X-rays. In the examination of the patient, attention must be sj^ecially