ERYSIPELAS. 115 scalp as far back as the nape of the neck. It stops, however, at the chin, and never extends on to the front of the neck. There is great csdema of the face, the eyes becoming closed up, and the features unrecognisable. The inflammation may spread to the meninges, the intracranial venous sinuses, the eye, or the ear, and so add to the immediate risks, and lead to serious after-consequences. In some cases the erysipelas invades the mucous membrane of the mouth, and spreads to the fauces and larynx, setting up an oedema of the glottis which may prove fatal. Erysipelas neonatorum occurs in the region of the umbilicus in young infants, and usually proves fatal. In puerperal ivoinen the infection may occur in .the genital tract and give rise to a dangerous form of streptococcal infection. Complications.—Diffuse sup>imrative cellulitis is the most serious local complication, and results from a mixed infection with pyogenic bacteria. Small localised suy^erjicial abscesses may form during the convalescent stage. They are doubtless due to the action of skin bacteria which attack the tissues devitalised by the erysipelas. A persistent form of oedema sometimes remains after recurrent attacks of erysipelas, especially when they affect the face or the lower extremity. This con- dition is referred to again wth elephantiasis. Treatment. — The first indication in treatment is to endeavour to arrest the spread of the jrrocess. We have found that by painting with linimentum iodi, a ring half an inch broad, about an inch in front of the peripheral tender zone — not the red margin — an artificial leucocytosis is produced, and the advancing streptococci are thereby arrested. Several coats of the iodine are applied, one after the other, and this is repeated daily for several days, even although the erysipelas has not overstepped the ring. Success depends upon using the liniment of iodine (the tincture is not strong enough), and in applying it well in front of the disease. Scarification of the skin in front of the spreading margin acts in the same way, but is painful, and requires a general anmsthetic. To allay the pain of erysipelas perhaps the most useful local a2)plications are ichthyol ointment (1 in 6), thiol (in 20 to 40 per cent, aqueous solution) painted on several times a day, or lead and opium fomentations. The general treatment consists in attending to all the emimctories, in administering quinine in small—two-grain— doses every four hours, or salicylate of iron (2-5 gr. every