DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. 710 to one of the bursae in the popliteal space. When left to them- selves, such abscesses tend to spread up the thigh, or down the back of the leg between the superficial and deep layers of calf muscles, and numerous sinuses may result from their rupture through the skin. Deformed Attitudes in Knee-joint Disease.—The attitude most often assumed is that of flexion, with or without external rotation of the leg and foot. The occurrence of flexion is explained by its being the resting attitude of the joint, and that which affords most ease and comfort to the patient. Once the joint is Hexed, the involuntary contraction of the Hexor muscles maintains the attitude, and if the patient is able to use the limb in walking, the weight of the body is a powerful factor in increasing it. The external rotation of the leg is probably associated with contraction of the biceps muscle. Backward displacement of the tibia is met with chiefly in neglected cases of chronic disease of the knee when the jJatieut has walked on the limb after it has become flexed. In certain cases genu valgum or abduction of the leg is present along with a slight degree of flexion. The valgus attitude is associated with slight outward di.splacement of the patella, with j^romineuce and apparent enlargement of the internal condyle, with depression of the pelvis on the diseased side and apparent lengthening of the limb. Treatment.—Conservative measures are indicated where there is a prospect of obtaining a movable joint. When the articular surfaces are so involved that this is no longer possible, it is usually both a waste of time and a source of danger to the patient to persist with conservative mea.sures. By means of operation one may anticipate cure of the disease within a definite time, and although the kuee is stiff, the limb is a useful one. In children, it is seldom necessary to have recourse to operative measures, because they have greater recuperative powers, and because time is of secondary importance; moreover, extensive operations on the bones tend to interfere with the grow'th of the limb. The methods of carrying out conservative treatment are similar to those employed in other joints. The limb is im- mobilised in the position of almost complete extension. If the joint is sensitive and tends to be flexed, the patient is confined to bed, the limb secured to a posterior splint, and extension with the weight and pulley applied to the leg. If there is no pq,in or tendency to flexion, or when these have been overcome, the limb is put up in a Thomas’ splint (Fig. 272) and the