266 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. indicated. Iron, arsenic, and other lisematinic drugs are also called for. Hemophilia. The term haemophilia is applied to an inherited disease which renders the patient liable to serious haemorrhage from even the most trivial injuries. Those who suffer from the condition are popularly known as “ bleeders.” The essential cause of the disease and its true nature are as yet unknown. There is no proof of any structural defect in the blood-vessels, nor has it been demonstrated that there is any alteration in the chemical composition of the blood. The disease is in a marked degree hereditary, all the branches of an affected family being liable to suffer. Its mode of trans- mission to individuals, moreover, is very characteristic: the male members of the stock alone suffer from the affection in its typical form, while the tendency is transmitted through the female line. Thus the daughters of a father who is a bleeder, whilst they do not themselves suffer from the disease, transmit the tendency to their male offspring. The sons, on the other hand, neither suffer themselves nor transmit the disease to their children (Fig. 57). The disease is met with in boys who are otherwise healthy, and usually manifests itself during the first few years of life. In rare instances profuse hmmorrhage takes place from the umbilical cord. As a rule the first evidence is the occurrence of severe, long-continued, and uncontrollable bleeding from a comparatively slight injury, such as the scratch of a pin, the extraction of a tooth, or a circumcision wound. The blood oozes slowly from the capillaries; at first it appears normal, but after flowing for some days, or it may be weeks, it becomes pale, thin, and watery, and shows less and less tendency to coagulate. Sometimes the hsemorrhage takes place apparently spontane- ously from a mucous surface, such as the gums, the nasal mucous membrane, or the alimentary canal. In other cases the bleeding occurs into the cellular tissue under the skin or mucous mem- brane, producing large areas of ecchymosis and discoloration. One of the commonest manifestations of the disease is the occurrence of h£emorrhage into the synovial cavities of the large joints, especially the knee, elbow, or hip. The patient suffers repeatedly from such htemorrhages, the determining injury being often so slight as to have passed unobserved. There is evidence that the tendency to bleed is greater at