177 INHERITED SYPHILIS. general principles, with a preference, however, for ajjplications containing mercury or iodine, or both. If a wet dressing is required to cleanse the ulcer, I)lack wash may be used; if a powder to promote dryness, one containing iodoform; if an ointment is indicated, the choice lies between the red oxide of mercury or the dilute nitrate of mercury ointment, and one consisting of equal parts of lanolin and vaselin with two per cent, of iodine. Where there is any spreading tendency in ulcers of the skin or mucous membrane, the surface may be cauterised with the acid nitrate of mercury. Deep ulcers, lesions of the bones, larynx, and other parts which prove obstinate, may be treated like the corresponding lesions in tuberculosis—that is, by oj^erative measures directed towards the removal of the diseased tissues. Second attacks of syphilis, although very rare, do occur, especially in those who have been treated and cured by mercury. So long as the virus of syphilis remains active in the system, it protects the patient against a second attack. As a rule, tliere- fore, there is an interval of several years before a jiatient who has had syphilis can contract the disease a second time, and when he does so, it is less severe and more amenable to treatment than the first attack. As connected with this subject, we may refer to the relaps- ing false indurated chancre, described by Hutchinson and by Fournier, as it may be the source of considerable difficulty in diagnosis. A patient who has had an infecting chancre one or more years before, presents a slightly raised induration on the penis at or close to the site of his original chancre. Often the relapsed induration is so like that of a primary chancre that it is impossible to distinguish it exce])t by the history. If he has lately been exposed to venereal infection it is liable to be regarded as the primary lesion of a second attack of syphilis, but the further progress of the case shows neither bullet - buboes nor secondary manifestations. These facts, together with the disappearance of the induration under iodides, make it very likely that the lesion is really gummatous in character. Inherited Syphilis. One of the most striking features of syphilis is that it may be transmitted from parents who have suffered from the disease to their offspring, the children exhibiting the manifestations which characterise the acquired affection. The more recent the syphilis in either parent the greater VOL. I—12