G16 DISEASES OF BONE. logical changes being confined to the ossifying junctions, specially affecting those which are most active during adolescence—for example, at the knee-joint. It may play an important part in the production of certain deformities which occur at or near puberty—especially genu valgum, genu varum, and coxa vara —and it may be indirectly concerned in the production of such deformities as scoliosis and flat foot. Scurvy-Rickets, Haemorrhagic Rickets.—^This disease, de- scribed by Barlow and Cheadle, is usually regarded as a com- bination of rickets and scurvy, although, according to Ashby, the haemorrhagic element is the result of anaemia. It is met with in infants under two years who have been brought up upon sterilised or condensed milk and other proprietary foods, and is most common in the well-to-do classes. It is characterised by anaemia, severe pains in the bones, and extravasations of blood in relation to the muscles and the skin which appear on the surface as bruises. Fractures and separation of epiphyses attended with sub-periosteal haemorrhage may occur from trivial injuries, chiefly in the bones of the thigh or leg. When a fracture takes place, the infant ceases to move the limb and screams if it is touched, and an excessively tender swelling may be recognised in the region of the epiphysis or adjacent part of the shaft; the skin becomes tense and shiny, and there may be crepitus. The disease in the bone may be mistaken for one or other of the pyogenic bone affections or for an ordinary fracture. The treatment consists in correcting the errors in diet. The infant should have a wet nurse or a plentiful supply of cow’s milk in its natural state. Anti-scorbutics in the form of orange, lemon, or grape juice, and of potatoes bruised down in milk may be given. Under this treatment marked improvement usually takes place within a few days, the haemorrhages cease, and the extravasated blood is gradually reabsorbed. The rachitic element is treated on the lines already described (p. 615), and the injuries to the bones on general principles. Osteomalacia.—The term osteomalacia includes a group of conditions in which the bones become soft and yielding, so that they are unduly liable to bend or break. Next to the form which is associated with rickets which has already been described, the osteomalacia of pregnant and puerperal women is the commonest and best-known member of this group. It is met with chiefly in women of the poorer classes who bear children under unhealthy conditions. It is more common in those parts of South Germany bordering on the Rhine and in certain parts of Italy, than in this country. While