SURGERY OF THE INDIVIDUAL NERVES. 343 without apparent cause, and it may be associated with multij)le tumours of the nervertrunks. The inconvenience caused by the bulk and weight of the limb may justify its removal by am- putation. SURGERY OF THE INDIVIDUAL NERVES.i The brachial plexus may be contused by such accidents as the wheel of a cart striking the root of the neck, displacement of the fragments in a fracture of the clavicle, or forcible abduction of the arm during anaesthesia, the cords being compressed between the clavicle and first rib. The nerve roots may be torn from their origin by violent traction of the arm upwards and backwards —as by clutching an object when falling from a height. The nerve-trunks in the axilla may be bruised and comj)ressed in dislocation of the head of the humerus, in fractures of the neck of the scapula and neck of the humerus. The symptoms vary with the nature and extent of the lesion. When all the cords are ruptured, the arm hangs powerless by the side, and is anajsthetic save over the upper deltoid region. If the first dorsal root is torn close to its point of emergence from the intervertebral foramen, there is paralysis of the sym- pathetic fibres to the eye and orbit, with narrowing of the palpebral fissure and recession of the globe, and the pupil is slow to dilate when shaded from the light. The usual troi)hic changes supervene in the arm, and the humerus is displaced downwards by the weight of the limb. In partial lesions, the fifth and sixth cervical roots most often suffer. They are liable to be stretched if the patient in falling lands on the shoulder, while the head on touching the ground is forced towards the opposite side, so that a considerable stretching force is exerted along the line of the nerves im- plicated (Victor Horsley). There is amesthesia on the outer aspect of the arm and forearm; paralysis of the deltoid, biceps, brachialis anticus, and supinator longus and brevis muscles (Erb’s group of muscles); and pain in the neck and down, the arm. The prognosis varies with the nature of the lesion. When the roots are torn from the cord it is very unfavourable. The patient requires a support for the elbow, or it may be advan- tageous to bring about ankylosis of this joint in the flexed ' The cranial nerves are considered with aft'ections of the head and neck (vol. ii. chap. iv.).