ANEURYSMS OF INDIVIDUAL ARTERIES. 307 and pleura. Rupture may take place externally, or into the pleura or the shoulder-joint. Needling or electroly.sis should first be tried, and, if these methods are unsuccessful, ligature of the third part of the subclavian may be had recourse to. In cases where the sac is small, the old operation may be preferred. Brachial aneurysm usually occurs at the bend of the elbow, is of traumatic origin, and is best treated by excision of the sac. Anenrymial varix, which was frequently met with in this situation in the days of the barber-surgeons,—u.sually as a result of the artery having been accidentally wounded while performing venesection of the median basilic vein,—may be treated, according to the amount of discomfort it causes, by a supporting bandage, or by ligature of the artery above and below the point of communication. Aneurysms of the vessels of the forearm and hand call for no special mention ; they are almost invariably traumatic, and are treated by excision of the sac. Inguinal Aneurysm {Aneurysm of the Iliac and Common Femoral Arteries').—Aneurysms appearing in the region of Poupart’s ligament may have their origin in the external or common iliac arteries or in the common femoral. On account of the tension of the fascia lata, they tend to spread upwards towards the abdomen, and, to a less extent, downwards into the thigh. Sometimes a constriction occurs across the sac at the level of Poupart’s ligament. The pressure exerted on the nerves and veins of the lower extremity causes pain, congestion, and oedema of the limb beyond. Rupture may take place either externally, or into the cellular tissue of the iliac fossa. These aneurysms have to be diagnosed from pulsating sarco- mata growing from the pelvis, and from an abscess, or mass of enlarged lymphatic glands overlying the artery and receiving a transmitted pulsation. Electrolysis or needling may be considered, but the method of treatment which has met with most success has been ligature of the common or external iliac, reached either by reflecting the peritoneum from off" the iliac fossa (extra-peritoneal operation), or by going through the peritoneal cavity (trans-peritoneal operation). Gluteal Aneurysm.—An aneurysm in the buttock may arise from the gluteal or from the sciatic artery, but by the time it forms a salient swelling it is seldom possible to recognise by external examination in which vessel it takes origin. The