FKACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. 559 As tlie (li.splacemeiit is liaUe to recur, the jiatient should wear a firm elastic Irandage or a strong knee-cap. Permanent and recurrent dislocations of the j)utella will be described in the chapter^on deformities. Fractures of the Bones of the Leg. The bones of the leg may Ire broken together or separately. Fracture of both Bones.—The 'anatomical and clinical features of this injury depend to a large extent upon the nature of the violence producing it. In fracture by direct violence, such as the passage of a wheel over the limb or a severe blow, the bones give way at the point of impact, and the line of fracture tends to be transverse, both bones being broken at the same level (Fig. 202). There is often little or no displacement, and such as there is is angular, and is determined by the direction of the fracturing force. When the violence is indirect, as from a fall on the feet, or a twist of the foot, the tibia usually gives way at the junction of its lower and middle thirds, and the fibula at a higher level (Fig. 203). Torsion of the tibia is probably the most important factor in the production of the fracture, the lower fragment being fixed by the pressure of the foot ui)on the ground, while the u[)per fragment is rotated by the im2)etus of the body. Both fractures are u.sually oblicpie—that in the tibia running from above downward, forward, and inward, and it is generally found that the obliquity of the fibular fracture corres}>onds with that in the tibia. There is usually consideral)lo displacement. The upper frag- ments project forwards, while the lower fragments tend to move backwards under the influence of gravity and the traction of the calf mu.scles. These muscles also pull up the heel and point the toes, and the weight of the foot causes it to fall outwards. On account of the superficial position of the tibia and the pointed character of the fragments, this fracture is frequently rendered compound by the bone coming through the skin. The projecting piece of lione is usually the lower end of the upper fragment. This fracture is also very often comminuted. It has been observed that when the line of fracture forms the letter V on the .subcutaneous surface of the tibia, there is invariably a fissure passing along the back of the bone into the ankle-joint— a complication which adds to the ri.sk of subsequent stiffness and inq>aired usefulness of the limb. Apart from this, the ankle is u.sually sprained in fractures by indirect violence, and