PREVENTION OF WOUND INFECTION. 35 Green the most reliable. The nails should first be cut down till there is no sulcus between the nail edge and the pulp of the finger in which organisms may lodge. The hands are then thoroughly washed for live minutes in running water as hot as can be borne, and scrubbed with a loofah or a nail-brush which has been previously sterilised by heat. They are next w'ashed for three minutes in methylated spirit to dehydrate the skin, and then for tw'O or three minutes in 70 per cent, sublimate-alcohol (1 in 1000). Finally, they are rubbed with dry sterilised gauze. The whole }>rocess occupies about ten minutes. On account of the difficulty of rendering the hands surgically pure, it is advisable to wear rubber, or cotton gloves, as origin- ally introduced liy Mikulicz, while operating on all cases, dt is necessary to change cotton gloves frequently during the course of a prolonged operation, because when they become moist with blood or other fluids they are permeable to the skin secretions, and organisms from the folds and ducts of the skin which have escaped the })reparatory cleansing may pass through the meshes of the cotton and so reach the w'ound. By Kocher the gloves are used chiefly in ligaturing blood-vessels and inserting sutures, with a view to preventing the catgut or silk being contaminated by coming into contact with the surgeon’s hands. In hospital practice, when a number of operations have to be. performed, the surgeon and his assistants may with advan- tage wear sterilised cotton gloves between one operation and the next to avoid the necessity of repeatedly going through the pro- cess of purifying the hands. Preparation of the Skin of the Patient.—In the })urification of the skin of the patient before operation, reliance is to be placed chiefly in the mechanical removal of dirt and grease by the same means as are taken for the cleansing of the surgeon’s hands. Hair-covered parts should be shaved. The skin is then dehydrated by washing with methylated spirit, follow'ed by 70 per cent, sublimate - alcohol (1 in 1000). This is done some hours before the operation, and the part is then covered with pads of dry sterilised gauze or a sterilised tow^el. Immedi- ately before the operation the skin is again purified in the same way. If any acne pustules or septic sinuses are present, they should be destroyed or purified by means of the thermo-cautery or pure carbolic acid, after the patient is anassthetised. Instruments which are not damaged by heat must be boiled in a fish-kettle or other suitable steriliser for fifteen minutes in a one per cent, solution of lysol. Just before the operation begins they are removed in the tray of the steriliser and placed