171 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. through gastric disturbance, to take the full number required. The bib should be changed once a fortnight, as the mercury is lost by evaporation. Iodides in Secondary Syphilis.—While generally recognised as being of little or no use at the beginning of the secondary stage, iodides are of great value in the treatment'of the later manifestations, especially those which approach in character the lesions of the tertiary period ami do not yield to mercury alone, such as the deeper lesions in the skin and throat, and in the nervous system. The iodide of potassium or sodium is given in five to fifteen grain doses thrice daily, either in solution along with the bichloride of mercury, or separately in the form of tablets. When iodides are given to a patient who has been taking a course of mercury, their effects must be carefully watched, as the iodides liberate mercury which has accumulated in an insoluble form in the tissues, and salivation may result. After the termination of a full course of mercury, and when all manifestations have disappeared, French authorities recommend a two to three months’ course of the iodides alone. In cases with marked general debility and with cachexia, where mercury and iodides have failed to give relief or appear even to aggravate the disease (and this is most often the case in patients who have resided in tropical countries), a trial should be given to sarsaparilla taken in large quantities of hot water. One of the best-known preparations is Zittrnann’s decoction,^ which contains sarsaparilla, fennel, anise, liquorice, and senna. A pill containing two grains of calomel is given at intervals of four days. We can bear out the statement that it often acts like a charm when all other treatment has failed. Treatment of the Local Manifestations. — The skin lesions are treated on the same lines as similar eruptions of other origin. As local applications, preparations of mercury are usually selected, notably the ointments of the red oxide of mercury, ammoniated mercury, or oleate of mercury (5 per cent.), or the mercurial plaster introduced by Unna. In the treatment of condylomata the greatest attention must be paid to cleanli- ness and dryness. After washing and drying the affected patches, they are dusted with a powder consisting of equal parts of calomel and carbonate of zinc; and apposed skin surfaces, such as the nates or labia, are separated by sublimate wool. In the ulcers of later secondary syphilis, crusts are got ^ The formula is given in the First Report by the Advisory Board for Army Medical Services on the Treatment of Venereal Disease and Scabies in the Army, 1904, p. 32.