326 THE LYMPHATICS. structures, such as the trachea, oesophagus, or great veins, and give rise to symptoms referable to such pressure. The disease usually terminates fatally within one or two years of its com- mencement. The structural changes in the lymphatic glands are not characteristic of any specific infection. The glands are hypertrophied and the lymph spaces crowded with leucocytes, and in the later stages the fibrous framework of the gland becomes thickened. The origin of the disease is as yet unknown, but analogy would suggest that it is due to infection with a slowly growing micro-organism. Diagnosis. — The true relationships of lymphadenoma to lympho-sarcoma and to leucocythsemia are as yet imperfectly established, so that it is impossible to state definitely the points upon which a differential diagnosis may be founded. True leucocythsemia is to be recognised by the characteristic alterations in the blood. Lympho-sarcoma commences in one particular gland and runs a clinical course similar to that of other forms of sarcoma. The diagnosis from tuberculosis at an early stage can only be made by removing one of the glands and submitting it to microscopical examination. Treatment.—In genuine cases of lymphadenoma treatment is of little avail. Arsenic is given in full doses either by the mouth or by subcutaneous injection. The excision of glands, although sometimes beneficial, seldom arrests the progress of the disease. The ease and rapidity with which large masses of glands may be shelled out is in remarkable contrast to what is observed in tuberculous disease. Surgical interference may give relief when important structures are being pressed upon—tracheotomy, for example, may be required where life is threatened by asphyxia. Leucocythsemia.—This is a disease of the blood and of the blood-forming organs in which there is a great increase in the number, and an alteration of the character of the leucocytes present in the blood. It may simulate lymphadenoma, because, in certain forms of the disease, the lymphatic glands, especially those in the neck, axilla, and groin, are greatly enlarged, and there is a gradual failure of health terminating in death. Tumours of Lymphatic Glands. Primary Tumours.—It is very doubtful if there exists an innocerCt lymphoma or simple hypertrophy of glands apart from the diseased conditions already described. The malignant lymphoma or lympho-sarcoma, which cannot always be differentiated from lymphadenoma, may be regarded