344 THE NERVES. position, because of the paralysis of its flexors. When the nerve cords are ruptured the question of uniting them by operation arises. Satisfactory results have been obtained from suture of the cords (Thorburn). In the birth palsies of the upper extremity in children—first described by Duchenne—the fifth and sixth cervical cords are those usually affected. There is often a history of considerable force having been employed during the birth of the child whereby the nerve cords are bruised or stretched. If there is no prosjject of spontaneous recovery, as indicated by the develop- ment of abnormal electrical reactions in the affected muscles, the nerve-trunks may be exposed above the clavicle; according to the conditions met with they are freed from adhesions, or, if necessary, resected and sutured (Robert Kennedy). When the brachial cords are compressed by a cervical rib, a tumour, or a subclavian aneurysm, there is pain and motor weakness in the arm, which are treated by the removal of the compressing cause when this is possible. The nerve of Bell, which supplies the serratus magnus, may be contused or stretched as a result of injuries to the shoulder, from carrying heavy weights on the shoulder, or from prolonged exertion with the arm raised. The serratus being paralysed, the patient complains of diminished power of elevating the arm above the shoulder, and on examination the vertebral border of the scapula is found to jjroject from the thorax, especially when the arms are stretched out in front “winged scapula.” The arm must be rested and supported in a sling so adjusted as slightly to raise the shoulder, and the functions of the nerve and muscle are promoted by massage and electricity. The supra-scapular nerve may be paralysed as a result of injuries to the shoulder. The supra- and infra-spinatus muscles are paralysed and wasted, the spine of the scapula becomes unduly prominent, and there is some impairment in the power of raising the arm, and of the finer movements in writing or sewing (Thorburn). The circumflex nerve is frequently damaged in injuries in the region of the shoulder. The deltoid muscle is paralysed and wastes rapidly, and the arm cannot be raised to the hori- zontal position. The sub-scapular nerves may be injured at the same time, leading to paralysis of the muscles supplied by them. Bilateral paralysis of the deltoid has followed sleeping with the arms raised and the hands clasped behind the head. Musculo-Spiral Nerve.—In virtue of its anatomical relation- ships this trunk is more exjjosed to injury than any other nerve