130 BACTEEIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. anthrax baciHiis should at once be cauterised with the actual cautery, then sponged over with pure carbolic acid, and dressed antiseptically. Treatment.—The best results hitherto obtained have followed the use of the serum introduced by Sclavo, which appears to act by inducing a defensive phagocytosis, rather than by neutralising toxins. The initial dose is 40 c.c., and if the serum is given early in the disease, the beneficial effects are manifest in a few hours. When the serum treatment is not available, the whole of the affected area should be excised without delay, and the actual cautery and pure carbolic acid freely applied to the raw surface. When complete excision is impracticable on account of the situation or extent of the disease, or its relation to important structures, the whole of the indurated area should be freely incised, and after clipping away all necrotic tissue with scissors, the raw surface should be cauterised. The subcutaneous injection of strong solutions of carbolic acid or corrosive sublimate has in some cases yielded satisfactory results. It is only fair to state, however, that the experience of some observers seems to indicate that the results obtained by leaving the pustule to nature and merely protecting it with an antiseptic dressing are equally good. The general treatment consists in feeding and stimulating the patient as freely as possible. Quinine, in 5 to 10 grain doses every four hours, and powdered ipecacuanha, in 40 to 60 grain doses every four hoirrs, have also been employed with apparent benefit. Glanders. Glanders is due to the action of a specific bacterium, the bacillus mallei, which resembles the tubercle bacillus, save that it is somewhat shorter and broader, and does not stain by Gramm’s method. It requires higher temperatures for its cultivation than the tubercle bacillus, and its growth on potato is of a characteristic chocolate-brown colour, with a greenish- yellow ring at the margin of the growth. The bacillus mallei retains its vitality for long j^eriods under ordinary conditions, but is readily killed by heat and chemical antiseptics. It does not form spores. Clinical Featiires.—Both in the lower animals and in man