409 FKACTURES. displacement of tlie fragments, or where only one of two parallel bones is broken, as in the leg or forearm. Similarly, crepitus may be absent when impaction exists, when the frag- ments completely override one another, or are separated by an interval, or when soft tissues, such as torn periosteum or muscle, are interposed between them. A sensation closely resembling crepitus may be felt over a large extravasation of blood, over effusions into tendon sheaths, and over joints in certain chronic diseases. The rubbing of the dislocated end of a bone against the fibrous tissues amongst which it lies, and the crackling of air in subcutaneous emphysema, also closely simulate the crepitus of fracture. It is not advisable to be very diligent in eliciting these signs at the bedside, partly because of the pain caused by the manipulations, and partly because vigorous handling may do harm by undoing impaction, or by producing displacement which does not already exist, or by converting a simple into a compound fracture. It is often necessary for purposes of diagnosis to administer a general ansesthetic, particularly in injuries of deeply placed bones and in the vicinity of joints. Before doing so, the appliances necessary for the treatment of the injury should be made ready, in order that the fracture may be reduced and set before the patient regains consciousness. Radiography in the Diagnosis of Fractures.—While radio- graphy is of inestimable value in the diagnosis of many fractures and other injuries, particularly in the vicinity of joints, the student is warned against relying too implicitly on the evidence it seems to afford. A radiogram is not a photograph of the object exposed to the X-rays, but merely a picture of its shadow. As the rays emanate from a single point in the vacuum tube, and as they are not, like the sun’s rays, approximately parallel, the shadows they cast are necessarily distorted. Hence, in interpreting a radiogram, it is necessary to know the relative positions of the point from which the rays proceed, the object exposed, and the [)hotographic plate on which the shadow is registered. The least distortioii takes place when the object is in contact with the plate, and the shadow of that part of the object which lies perpendicularly under the light is less distorted than that of the parts lying outside the perpendicular. The light and the plate remaining constant, the amount of distortion varies directly with the distance between the object and the plate. To ensure accuracy in the diagnosis of fracture by the X-rays,