TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF GLANDS. 325 destroying the ov&rlying skin give rise to fungating tuberculous ulcers. The treatment consists in excising the glands and the affected skin. The dissection is often attended with troublesome htemor- rhage from the numerous veins which converge towards the common femoral trunk. Tuberculous affections of the mesenteric and bronchial glands will be referred to later. Syphilitic Disease of Glands.—Enlargement of lymphatic glands is a prominent feature in acquired syphilis, especially in the form of the indolent or bullet-bubo, which so commonly accompanies the primary lesion, and the general enlargement of glands which occurs throughout the body in secondary syphilis. Gummatous disease in glands is extremely rare, although it is slightly more common in the inherited than in the acquired form of the disease. The affected gland rapidly enlarges to the size of a walnut or an ai)ple, and may then persist for a long period without further change ; if it breaks down, the overlying skin is destroyed and the caseated gummatous material exposed. The condition readily yields to antisyphilitic treatment. Lymphadenoma. — Hodgkin’s Disease (Pseudoleucajmia of German authors).—This is a disease which is usually met with in children between 5 and 15 years, and in males below middle age. It begins as a slow, painless enlargement of some particular group of glands, most commonly those in the cervical region. The glands are usually larger than in tuberculosis, and they remain longer discrete and movable and without pain or dis- comfort. In time the glandular masses may form enormous projecting tumours, the swelling being added to by oedema of the overlying cellular tissue and skin (Fig. 70). The enlargement spreads along the cervical chain of glands to those above the clavicle, to those in the axilla, and to those of the opposite side. Later the glands in the groin can be seen and felt to be enlarged. It is probable that the infection has spread from the glands in the neck along the mediastinal, bron- chial, retro-peritoneal, and mesenteric glands, and has branched off from thence to the iliac and inguinal groups. When the disease has thus become generalised, the patient’s health suffers and he becomes feverish and anajinic. The blood presents the characters met with in secondary anieniia, and although polynuclear leucocytosis may be observed at any stage, it is not an essential feature of the disease but an evidence of secondary infection. The spleen, liver, testes, and mamnire may be enlarged. The glandular swellings may press on important