TUMOUES. 194 presses upon a nerve-trunk. The Rontgen rays show a dark shadow corresponding to the ossified portion of the tumour, and continuous with that of the bone from which it is growing. Operative interference is only indicated when the tumour is giving rise to inconvenience. It is then removed, its base or neck being divided by means of the chisel. The bony outgrowth from the terminal phalanx of the great toe—known as the subungual exostosis—is described and figured on page 378. The ivory or compact osteoma is composed of dense, compact bone, and usually grows from the bones of the skull. It is generally sessile and solitary, and may grow into the interior of the skull, into the frontal sinus, into the cavity of the orbit or nose, or may fill up the external auditory meatus. Bony formations sometimes occur in muscles and tendons, especially at their points of attachment to the skeleton, and are described with the diseases of muscles. Odontoma.—An odontoma is a tumour composed of dental tissues in varying proportions and different degrees of develojj- ment, arising from teeth-germs or from teeth still in process of growth (Bland Sutton). Odontomata resemble teeth in so far that during their development they remain hidden below the mucous membrane and give little or no evidence of their existence. There then succeeds, usually between the twentieth and twenty-fifth years, an eruptive stage, which is often attended with suppuration, and this may be the means of drawing attention to the tumour. Following Bland Sutton, we may distinguish several varieties of odontoma according to the part of the tooth-germ concerned in their formation. Epithelial odontomata are derived from persisteflt portions of the epithelium of the enamel organ, and constitute multilocular cystic tumours which are chiefly met with in the lower jaw. The cystic spaces of the tumour contain a brownish glairy fluid. These tumours have been described by Eve under the name of multilocular cystic epithelial tumours of the jaw. The follicular odontoma, formerly known as a dentigerous cyst, is derived from the distension of a tooth follicle. It con- stitutes a cyst which contains a viscid fluid, and an imperfectly formed tooth is often found embedded in its wall. The cyst usually forms in relation to one of the permanent molars, and may attain considerable dimensions. The fibrous odontoma is the result of an overgrowth of fibrous tissue surrounding the tooth sac, which encapsulates the tooth and prevents its eruption. The thickened tooth sac is