FRACTURES OF UPPER END OF THE RADIUS. 481 is fixed with the elbow-joint in the position of slight extension. Movement may be commenced at the end of a week, the angle at which the joint is fixed being changed morning and evening. During the day the joint should be flexed and the arm carried in a sling; during the night it should be extended and fixed to a pillow by the jratient’s side. The patient is allowed to use the joint cautiously within a fortnight. Old - standing Fractures.-—When firm union fails to take place, the interval between the fragments tends to increase by the contraction of the triceps gradually stretching the inter- mediate fibrous tissue, so that a wide gap comes to separate the fragments. If the function of the limb is impaired, the best treatment is to expose the fragments, refresh their edges, and wire them. Fracture of the coronoid process is very rare except Pio. 137.—Fracture'of Coronoid Process, as a complication of backward dislocation of the elbow. It may be produced, however, by direct violence, as well as by muscular action. As the fracture is usually within a quarter of an inch of the tip, the fibres of insertion of the brachialis anticus tend to prevent displacement. The ordinary evidences of fracture are often absent, and the diagnosis is seldom completed without the aid of the X-rays. The treatment consists in flexing the elbow and supporting the forearm in a sling. In some cases associated Avith dislocation, however, the small fragment has been so far displaced as to become attached to the back of the condyles of the humerus (Annandale), Fractures of the Upper End of the Radius. Intra-capsular fracture of the head of the radius may result from direct violence, from a fall on the pronated hand, or from forcible pronation or abduction—-that is deviation of the forearm to the radial side. It may accompany dislocation of the elbow or fracture of adjacent bones. The head may be completely separated, or may be split into two or more fragments. Up to the seventeenth year the epiphysis, which is entirely intra- articular, may be separated. The clinical features are localised pain, crepitus, interference with pronation and supination, and in some cases the fragment VOL. I—31