593 RELAPSING OSTEOMYELITIS. and disinclined to get up, has pains in the head and in the region of the joints of the limbs, and in the evening the temperature may rise considerably. The illness may be sudden and acute, and may last for two or three days, or may be milder and more prolonged, and there may be several relapses within twelve months. The treatment consists in improving the general health, and during the persistence of the pains the child is kept at rest with the affected limb immobilised. Relapsing Osteomyelitis.—As the term indicates, the various forms of relapsing osteomyelitis all date back to an antecedent attack, and their occurrence depends on the cai)acity of .staphy- lococci to lie latent in the marrow for long periods. Relapse may take place within a few months of the original attack or not for many years, and there may be repeated outbreaks. Cases are sometimes met with in which outbreaks recur at regular intervals for several years, the tendency, however, being for the attacks to become milder and milder as the virulence of the organisms becomes attenuated. Osteo- myelitis in a jiatient over twenty-five is usually of the relapsing variety. Clinical Features.—In some cases the bone becomes enlarged, and the patient complains of pain and tenderness on pressure; in others there are the usual phenomena which attend suppura- tion, but the ])us is slow Iti coming to the surface, and the constitutional symptoms are slight. The pus may escape by new channels or one of the old .sinuses may reopen. If a sequestrum forms it is usually walled in by new bone and difficult to discover. Treatment. —• In cases of hyperostosis and sclerosis with per.sistent and severe pain, if relief is not afforded by the repeated application of blisters, the thickened jieriosteum should be incised, and the bone opened up with the chisel or trephine. In cases attended with suppuration, the swelling is incised and drained, and if there is a sequestrum, it should be removed. Circumscribed Abscess of Bone—“ Brodie’s Abscess.”—The most important form of relapsing osteomyelitis is the circum- scribed abscess of bone described first by Benjamin Brodie. It is irsually met with in young adults. Several years may intervene between the original attack of osteomyelitis and the onset of .symptoms of abscess. Morbid Anatomy}—The abscess is nearly always situated in ' Alexis Thomson, Edin. Med. Journ., 1906. VOL. I—38