SURGERY OF THE INDIVIDUAL NERVES. 349 and of the ulnar portion of the thenar eminence. In time the contraction of the opponents of the paraly.sed interossei produces over-extension of the first phalanges and fiexion of the others, so that a “ claw hand ” or main en grife develo2>s, the claw attitude chiefly affecting the ring and little fingers (Eig. 77). The skin and nails of the ring and little fingers often present troifiiic changes. When the nerve is injured above the origin of the Ijranches to the muscles in the forearm, the hand when flexed deviates to the radial side, and in time this deviation becomes permanent, and the grasp of the hand is weakened, especially in the ring and little fingers. There is complete loss of sensation over an area which may vary greatly in size; sometimes it includes the little finger, the ulnar half of the ring finger, and one-third of the palm and dorsal surface of the hand ; in other cases it is reduced to the little finger and a strip on the extreme ulnar border of the hand (Fig. 78). Sensation is impaired over a wider area corre- .sponding to the anatomical distribution of the nerve. Dislocation of the ulnar nerve at the elbow may result from a direct blow, or from a muscular effort which causes stretching or laceration of the fascia which holds the nerve in its groove; it is predisposed to if the groove is shallow as a result of imperfect development of the internal condyle of the humerus. The nerve slips forwuird, and may be felt lying on the inner aspect of the condyle. It may retain this position, or it may slip backwards and forwards with the movements of the arm. The symptoms at the time of the displacement are a certain amount of disability at the elbow, and jfain and tingling along the nerve, which are exaggerated by movement atid by pressure. The symptoms may subside altogether, or a neuritis may develop with severe pain shooting up the nerve. The dislocated nerve is easily replaced, but is difficult to retain in position. In recent cases the arm may be placed in the extended position with a pad over the condyle, care being taken to avoid pressure on the nerve. Failing relief, it is better to make a bed for the nerve by dividing the deep fascia behind the internal condyle and stitching the edges of the fascia over the nerve. This operation has been successful in all the recorded cases. The external popliteal nerve is most exposed to injury where it winds round the neck of the fibula. It may be compressed by a tight bandage or tourniquet, or it may be bruised or torn in