663 CHRONIC RHEUMATISM. cellular iiittltratioii and exudation, resulting in the formation of new connective tissue which encroaches on the cavity of the joint and gives rise to adhesions between the articular surfaces. This newly formed connective tissue tends to contract, causing deform- ity and stiffness. The articular cartilages may be transformed into connective tissue, with consequent fibrous ankylosis and complete obliteration of the cavity of the joint. The bones are affected only in so far as they undergo fatty atrophy, or alteration in their con- figuration as a result of partial dislocation. Osseous ankylosis may be observed, especially in the small joints of the hand and foot. Clinically, the disease is chronic and usually incurable. It is usually poly-articular and may be met with in childhood and youth as well as in adult life. In some cases, pain may be so prominent a feature that the patient resists the least attempt at movement. In others, the joints, although stiff, may be moved but exhibit pronounced crackings. When there is much new connective tissue formed in relation to the synovial membrane the joint is swollen, and as the muscles waste above and below the joint the swelling presents a characteristic ■spindle-shape outline. Subacute exacerbations occur from time to time, with fever and aggravation of the local symi)toms. Finally there is ankylosis with deformity, the patient becoming a helpless cripple. On account of the tendency to visceral com- plications, the tenure of life is uncertain. From the nature of the disease treatment is for the most part palliative. Salicylates are only of service during the exacerba- tions attended with pyrexia. The application of soda fomentations, turpentine cloths, or electric or hot-air baths may be useful. Improvement may result from the general and local therapeutics available at such places as Bath, Buxton, Harrogate, Wiesbaden, or Aix. In selected cases, a certain measure of success has followed operative interference, which consists in a modified arthrectomy. The deformities resulting from chronic rheumatism are but little amenable to surgical treatment, and forcible attempts to remedy stiffness or deformity are to be avoided. Arthritis Deformans or Osteo-Arthritis {Chronic Rheu- matic Arthritis, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Rheumatic Gout, Malum Senile, Traumatic or Mechanical Arthritis).—Under the term arthritis deformans or osteo-arthritis are provisionally included a number of joint affections which in their etiology and clinical features differ widely from one another. Their inclusion in a common group can only be justified by confessing that we are ignorant of their essential nature. In the above list of synonyms.