REPAIR IN INDIVIDUAL TISSUES. 5 essentially the same as in the ideal method of repair—namely, the formation of granulation tissue, and its transformation into young fibrous tissue. Tlie raw .surface is first covered by a layer of coagulated blood and fibrin. An extensive new formation of capillary loops and fibroblasts takes place towards the free surface, and goes on until the gap is filled by a fine velvetdike mass of granulation ■ tissue, and then the process tends to stop. This granulation tissue is gradually replaced by young cicatricial tissue, and the surface is covered by the ingrowth of epithelium from the edges of the skin. This modification of tlie reparative process can be well studied clinically in a wound which, at the time of the operation, has been packed with gauze. When the plug is introduced the walls of the cavity consist of raw tissue with numerous oozing blood-vessels. On removing the stuffing on the fifth or sixth day, it is found that the surface is covered with minute, red, papillary luojections {granulations), and that already the cavity has become smaller, having been filled in from below by the granulations. At the edges, too, the epithelium has proliferated and is covering over the newly formed tissue. On subsequently examining the wound at intervals of a few days, it is found that the granulation tissue gradually increases in amount till the gap is completely filled uji, and that coincidently the epithelium spreads in and covers over its surface. In course of time the epithelium thickens, and as the granulation tissue is sloAvly replaced by young cicatricial tissue, which has a peculiar tendency to contract and so to obliterate the blood-vessels in it, the scar which is left becomes smooth, pale, and depressed. This method of healing is sometimes spoken of as “ healing by granulation ”—although, as we have seen, it is by granulation that all repair takes place. Healing hi/ Union of two Granulating Surfaces.—In widely- gaping wounds closure is sometimes obtained by bringing the two surfaces into apposition after each has become covered with healthy granulations. The exudation on the surfaces causes them to adhere, capillary loo[>s pass from one to the other, and their final fusion takes place by the further development of granulation and cicatricial tissue. Repair in Individual Tlssues. The process of repair in general having been studied, it will obviate unnecessary repetition later if the modifications of that process as seen in the regeneration of certain of the individual