368 THE SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE. squamous epithelium. The contents consist of accumulated epithelial cells, and are at first dry, and pearly white in appearance, but as a result of fatty degeneration they break down into a greyish-yellow pultaceous and semi-fluid material having a peculiar stale odour. It is probable that the decom- position of the cyst contents is the result of the presence of bacteria, and that from the surgical point of view they should be regarded as infective. A sebaceous cyst may remain indefinitely without change, or may slowly increase in size, the skin over it becoming stretched and closely adherent to the cyst wall as a result of friction and pressure. The contents may become cal- careous or may ooze from the orifice of the duct and dry on the skin surface, leading to the formation of a sebaceous horn. As a result of injury the cyst may undergo sudden enlargement from haemorrhage into its interior. Recurrent attacks of inflammation frequently occur, especially in wens of the face and scal[). Suppuration may ensue and be followed by cure of the cyst, or an offensive fungating ulcer results which may be mistaken for epithelioma. True cancerous transformation is very rare. Wens are to be diagnosed from dermoids, from fatty tumours, and from cold abscesses. Dermoids usually appear before adult life, and as they nearly always lie beneath the fascia the skin is movable over them. A fatty tumour is more movable, and is often lobulated. The confusion with a cold abscess is most likely to occur in wens of the neck or back, and it may be impossible without operation to differentiate between them. Treatment.—The removal of wens is to be recommended while they are still .small and freely movable, as they are then easily shelled out after incising the overlying skin. Local anaesthesia is to be preferred. It is important that none of the cyst wall be left behind. In large and adherent wens an ellipse of skin should be removed along with the cyst. When inflamed, the cyst wall must be destroyed with pure carbolic acid, the resulting wound being treated by the open method. Moles.—The term mole is applied to a pigmented, and usually hairy, patch of the skin, present at or appearing shortly after birth. The colour varies from brown to black according to the amount of melanin pigment present. The essential lesion consists in an overgrowth of epidermis continuous with that on the surface, and often presenting an alveolar arrangement. Moles vary greatly in size : some are mere dots, others are as large as the palm of the hand, and occasionally a mole covers half the face or trunk. In addition to being unsightly, they