337 NEURITIS. ends, should be united by sutures. When it is impossible to make a definite diagnosis as to the state of the nerve, it is better-to expose it by an exploratory operation and thus arrive at a definite diagnosis without delay, and in the event of the nerve being torn, the ends should at once be united by sutures. Dislocation of Nerves.—This injury, which resembles the dislocation of tendons from their grooves, is seldom met with excej)t in the ulnar nerve at the elbow and is described with injuries of this nerve (p. 349). DISEASES OF NERVES. Traumatic Neuritis.—This consists in an overgrowth of the connective-tissue framework of a nerve, which causes irritation and pressure upon the nerve fibres, sometimes resulting in their degeneration, and tends to ascend towards the s})inal cord. It may originate in connection with a wound in the vicinity of a nerve, as, for example, when the brachial cords are involved subsequent to an operation for clearing out the axilla for cancer ; in a scar; or in contusion and compression of a nerve—for example, by the pressure of the head of the humerus in a dislocation of the shoulder. Some weeks or months after the injury the patient complains of increasing hypermsthesia and of neuralgic pains in the course of the nerve. The nerve is very sensitive to pressure, and, if superficial, may be felt to be swollen. The associated muscles are wasted and weak, and are subject to convulsive twitchings. There are also trophic disturbances. It is rare to have complete sensory and motor paralysis. The disease is commonest in the nerves of the upper extremity, and the hand is often crippled and useless. Treatment.—Any constitutional condition which predisposes to neuritis, such as gout, diabetes, or syphilis, must receive appro- priate treatment. The symptoms may be relieved by rest and by soothing applications such as belladonna or menthol, by the use of hot-air and electric baths, and in obstinate cases by blistering or by the application of Corrigan’s button. When such treat- ment fails the nerve may be stretched, or in the case of a purely sensory trunk a portion'may be excised. Local causes such as involvement of the nerve in a scar or in adhesions may afford indications for operative treatment. Multiple Peripheral Neuritis.—Although this disease mainly VOL. I—22