TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. 651 dii’ected to the wasting of muscles, the impairment or loss of the normal movements of the joint, and the develo[)ment of abnormal attitudes of the limb. Wasting of muscles is a constant accompaniment of tuber- culous joint disease. It is to be attributed partly to want of use, but chiefly to reflex interference with the trophic innervation of the muscles. It is specially well .seen in the extensor and adductor muscles of the thigh in disease of the knee, and in the deltoid in disease of the shoulder. The affected muscles become soft and flaccid, they exhibit tremors on attempted movement, and their excitability to the faradic current is diminished. The muscular tissue may be largely replaced by fat. Impairment or loss of the normal movements varies in degree according to the nature and seat of the disease. In the early stages of synovial tuberculosis the movements may be merely restricted in range. When any joint of the lower extremity is affected there is usually a limp in walking. When the articular surfaces are involved all movements, whether active or passive, are usually abolished, and the condition presented is one of fixation or rigidity. This results from involuntary contraction of the muscles ; it disappears under an anaesthetic, but returns on waking. The recognition of rigidity is of great diagnostic value, especially in deeply seated joints such as the shoulder and hijj, and in the spine. Abnormal attitiides of the limb may precede other symptoms of joint disease, but are more frequently of later development. In very indolent and mild cases they may be absent altogether. They occur earlier, and are more pronounced in cases in which pain and other irritative symptoms of articular disease are well marked, and are best illustrated by the attitudes assumed in disease of the hip and knee. They are due to reflex or involuntary contraction of the muscles acting on the joint, with the object of placing it in the attitiule of greatest ease, and they disappear under chloroform. With the lapse of time they not only become exaggerated, but may become permanent from ankylosis, or from contracture of the soft parts around the joint, and they do not disappear under chloroform. Startings at night, which are frequently met with in the stage of muscular fixation, are to be regarded as indications that the disease of the articular surfaces is progressive. They are most often met with in cases which go on to suppuration. The formatio7i of ej:tra-articular abscess is one of the commonest accompaniments of tuberculous joint di.sease. The abscess may appear early and form a prominent feature in the