THE NEKVES. 340 along the lymphatic spaces of the affected nerve-trunks, as well as to implicate the surrounding tissues, and is liable to give rise to secondary growths. The malignant neuroma is met with chiefly in the great sciatic and other large nerves of the limbs. The best treatment is to amputate the limb well above the growth, as mere removal of the tumour is usually followed by recurrence. In hopeless cases it may be possible to relieve pain by excising a portion of the nerve above the tumour, or, when this is impracticable, by resecting the posterior nerve roots and their ganglia within the spinal canal. The so-called amputation neuromata have already been referred to (p. 330). Diffuse or Generalised Neuro-Fibromatosis—Elephantiasis Nervorum.—These terms are now used to include what were formerly known as “ multiple neuromata,” as well as certain Fig. 72.—Diffuse Enlargement of Nerves in generalised Neuro-Fibromatosis. (After R. W. Smith.) other overgrowths related to nerves. The essential lesion is a diffuse or a generalised overgrowth of the endoneural connective tissue throughout the nerves of both the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic systems. The nerves are diffusely and unequally thickened, so that small twigs may become enlarged to the size of the median, while at irregular intervals along their course the connective-tissue overgrowth is exaggerated so as to form tumour-like swellings very similar to the trunk neuromata already described. The tumours, which vary greatly in size and number—as many as a thousand or more having been counted in one case—are enclosed in a capsule derived from the nerve sheath. The fibromatosis may also affect the cranial nerves, the ganglia on the posterior nerve roots, the nerves within the spinal canal, and the sympathetic nerves and ganglia, as well as the continuations of the motor nerves within the muscles. The nerve fibres, although mechanically displaced and dissociated by the overgrown endoneurium, usually undergo no structural change. The disease probably originates before birth, although it may