685 THE HIP-JOINT. examining a case of suspected hip disease, it is necessary to compare the length of the two limbs, to ascertain the position of the great trochanter in relation to Nekton’s line, to recognise the attitude of the limbs in relation to the pelvis, and to note whether or not the pelvis is tilted. It should be borne in mind that the whole of the anterior and fully one-half of the posterior aspect of the neck of the femur is covered by synovial membrane, so that lesions not only of the epiphysis and epiphysial junction, but also of the neck of the bone, are capable of extending directly to the synovial membrane and to the cavity of the joint. Infective material may escape from the joint into the .surrounding tis.sues through any weak point in the capsule, particularly through the bursa which intervenes between the capsule and the ilio-psoas, and which in one out of every ten subjects communicates with the joint. Tuberculous Disease.—Tuberculous disease of the hip, morbus coxae, or “hip-joint disea.se,” is especially common in the poorer classes. It is a frequent cause of prolonged invalidism and of permanent deformity, and is attended with a considerable mortality. It is essentially a disease of early life, rarely commencing after puberty, and almost never after maturity. Pathological Anatomy.—Bone le.sions bulk more largely in hip disease than is the case in other joints—five cases originating in bone to one in synovial membrane. The acetabulum and upper end of the femur are affected with about equal frequency. Disease originating in the spongy bone in the floor of the acetabulum may spread into the pelvis. In addition to the primary tuberculous lesions, secondary changes result from pressure of the inflamed and softened bones against one another, subsequent to the destruction of their articular cartilages. The head of the femur undergoes absorption from above downwards, becoming flattened and truncated, or disappearing altogether. In the acetabulum, the absorption takes place in an upward and backward direction, w'hereby the socket becomes enlarged and elongated towai’ds the dorsum ilii. To this progressive enlargement of the socket Volkmann gave the suggestive name of “ wandering acetalndum ” (Fig. 259). These secondary changes are of clinical importance, the resulting displacement of the femur being one of the most important causes of real shortening of the limb in advanced cases of hip disease. Clinical Features.—It is customary to describe three stages in the progress of hip disease, but it is to be borne in mind that they merge into one another. The stage of onset is characterised