FRACTURES OF LOWER END OF FEMUR. 543 the patella transversely it may be felt to hitch against the edge of one or other of the fragments. The shortening may amount to one or two inches. In einphysial separations the age of the patient, the mode of injury, the finding of the smooth broad end of the diaphysis in the popliteal space (Fig. 190), or on the front of the thigh, according to the displacement, usually serve to establish the diagnosis. Abnormal mobility of the epiphysis is one of the most constant and characteristic signs of this lesion. Crepitus is of little or no value as a diagnostic sign. In fracture of one or other condyle there is broadening of the knee but no .shortening of the thigh, and the ecchymosis, crepitus, and pain are localised to the affected side of the joint. The knee can usually be moved towards the injured side to an abnormal extent. Treatment.—Fractures in the region of the knee, especially the supra-condylar and T -shaped fractures, often present great difficulties in treatment. The small size of the lower fragment, its depth from the surface, and the accompanying effusion into and around the joint, render its control difficult if not im- possible. Separations of the epiphysis are, as a rule, more difficult to reduce and to maintain in position than fractures. In the majority of cases the two fragments can only be brought into apposition when the knee is flexed on the thigh and the thigh on the pelvis, and it is almost always necessary to carry out the reduction under anassthesia. In the few cases in which the fragments can be accurately approximated in the extended position of the limb, retention may be effected by means of a box-splint reaching well ui) the thigh (p. 561). In the majority, however, flexion is necessary, and the limb must be fixed on a double-inclined jilane, so constructed that the angle of flexion can be adjusted to meet the requirements of the individual ca.se (Fig. 179). If the lower fragment is of sufficient length to permit of extension strapping being applied to it, extension by weight and pulley, acting in the axis of the femur, and carried over an upright at the foot of the bed, may be useful. In most cases, however, this is impracticable. A poroplastic splint moulded over the front of the limb and secured by bandages is a valuable aid in maintaining accurate apposition of the fragments, which, unless so secured, are very liable to become redisplaced. Hodgen’s sidint, bent nearly to a right angle, is also found useful in the treatment of these injuries.