TREATMENT OF ULCERS. 85 When an imperfect nerve - mpply is the main factor under- lying ulcer formation, prophylaxis is the chief consideration. In 2'atients .suffei’ing from sjjinal injuries or diseases, cerebral paralysis, or affections of the perii)heral nerves, all sources of irritation, such as ill - fitting splints, tight bandages, moist ajo^dications, and hot bottles, should be avoided. Any part liable to pres.sure, from the position of the patient or otherwise, must be carefully })rotected by 2^ads of wool, air-cushions, or water-bags, and must be ke^jt absolutely dry. The skin should be hardened by daily applications of methylated spirit. Should an ulcer form in spite of these 2'recautions, the milde.st and least irritant antiseptics must be employed for bathing and dressing it, and as far as 2'ossible all dressings should be dry. The perforating nicer of the foot calls for special treatment. To avoid jjressure on the sole of the foot, the patient must be confined to bed. As the main local obstacle to healing is the down-growth of e^^ithelium along the sides of the ulcer, this must be removed by the knife or sharj) spoon. The base also should be excised, and any bone which may have become involved .should be gouged away so as to leave a healthy and vascular surface. The cavity thus formed is stuffed with iodo- form gauze and encouraged to heal from the bottom. After the ulcer is healed, the jjatient should wear in his boot a thick felt sole with a hole cut out opposite the situation of the cicatrix. When a joint has been opened into, the difficulty of thoroughly getting rid of all unhealthy and infected granulations is so great that ani2)utation may be advisable; but it is to be remembered that the ulcer sometimes recurs in the stum^i when pressure is put u2>on it. Exjjosure of the 2)lantar nerves by an incision behind the internal malleolus, and subjecting them to forcible stretching, has been employed by Chijiault and others in the treatment of ^jerforating ulcers of the foot. The treatment of any nervous disease or glycosuria which may coexist is, of course, indicated. The ulcer which forms in relation to callosities on the sole of the foot is treated by paring away all the thickened skin after softening it with soda fomentations, removing the unhealthy granulations, and ap^jlying stimulating dressings. Treatment of Ulcers due to Constitutional Causes.—When ulcers are associated with such constitutional diseases as diabetes, Bright’s disease, scurvy, or gout, these must be treated on general principles.