INJUEIES OF WRIST AND HAND. 502 to lie on a plane posterior to the styloids. The radius is not shortened. Unless the swelling is great the articular surfaces may be recognised on palpation. Dislocation of the carpus/orwarcf may result from any form of forced flexion, such as a fall on the back of the hand, or from direct violence. The displaced carpus forms a marked projection on the palmar aspect of the wrist, and there is a corresponding depression on the dorsum. The attitude of the hand and fingers varies, but is usually one of flexion. In other respects this dislocation agrees with the dorsal variety. In both varieties, reduction is readily effected by making traction on the hand and pushing the carpus into position. An anterior splint which keeps the hand slightly dorsiflexed is worn for about a fortnight, movement and massage being employed from the first. Dislocation of Carpal Bones.—The two rows of carpal bones may be separated from one another, or any one of the individual bones may be displaced. These injuries are rare, and result from severe forms of violence. Pain, deformity, and loss of function are the ordinary symptoms. The treatment consists in making direct pressure over the displaced bones, while traction is made on the hand, which is alternately flexed and extended. Of these injuries that most frequently observed is displacement of the head of the os magnum from the scaphoid and semilunar bones. In full palmar flexion of the wrist the displaced head of the os magnum forms a prominence on the dorsum opposite the base of the third metacarpal, which tempor- arily disappears when the hand is dorsiflexed. By keeping the hand in the dorsiflexed position for a week or ten days, the bone becomes fixed in its place and the function of the wrist is restored. The semilunar may be displaced forward by forcible dorsi- flexion of the hand, and forms a swelling over the inferior radio-ulnar joint, under the flexor tendons; there is usually loss of sensibility in the distribution of the ulnar nerve in the hand. The only satisfactory treatment is removal of the bone. In a few cases the scaphoid has been displaced,, and subse- quently replaced by operation. Separation of any of the other bones is extremely rare. Carpo-metacarpal Dislocations.—Any or all of the meta- carpal bones may be separated from the carpus by forced movements of flexion or extension. The commonest displace- ment is backward. The thumb seems to suffer oftener than the other digits. These injuries, however, are so rare, and the