OSTITIS DEFORMANS. 619 becomes calcified, so that the l)ones regain their rigidity. Tliis formation of new bone is much in excess of the normal, the bones become large and bulky, their surfaces rough and uneven, their texture sclerosed in parts, and the medullary canal in the long bones is frequently obliterated. These changes are well brought out in X-ray photographs. The curving of the long bones, which is such a striking feature of the disease, may be associated with actual lengthening, and the changes are usually remarkably symmetrical (Fig. 23-5). The bones forming the cranium may be enormously thickened, the distinction into tables and diploe is lost, and, while the general texture is finely porous, there may be areas of bone as dense as ivory (Fig. 234). Clinical Features.—The disease affects persons over fifty years of age of either sex, and develops very gradually without any discoverable cause. The patient’s attention may be first attracted by the occurrence of vague pains in the back or limbs; by the obvious enlargement and bending of such bones as the tibia or femur; or by a gradual increase in size of the head, necessitating the wearing of larger and larger hats. When the condition is fully developed the attitude and general apjiearance are eminently characteristic. The height is diminished, and, owing to the curving of the lower limbs and spine, the arms appear unnaturally long; the head and upper part of the spine are bent forwards; the legs are held apart, slightly flexed at the knees, and are rotated out as well as curved ; the whole appear- ance suggests that of one of the larger anthropoid apes. The muscles of the limbs may waste to such an extent as to leave the large, curved, misshapen bones covered only by the skin (Fig. 235). The disease may last for an indefinite period, the general health remaining for long unafi'ected ; the patient, however, finally succumbs to bronchitis or other intercurrent disease. In a considerable number of cases the bones become the seat of sarcoma. No treatment is of any avail in arresting or curing the disease, and all that can be done is to relieve symptoms as they arise. Neuropathic Atrophy of Bone.—The conditions included under this heading occur in association with diseases of the nervous system, but it is difficult to ascertain how far the changes in the skeleton are the result of altered trophic nerve influence, and how far they are the result of vaso-motor disturlrances. Among the clinical forms of neuropathic atrophy, most importance attaches to the fragility of the bones met with in