DISLOCATIONS IN REGION OF ANKLE. 573 or two inches, and the rough surface from which it has been torn may be recognisable. The patient is often able to walk immediately after the accident, although with difficulty. A good functional result is usually olAained by relaxing the calf muscles and fixing the foot in the position of extreme plantar flexion with the knee flexed, but in some cases it may be advisable to peg the fragments, either through the skin or after exposing them by incision. The other bones of the tarsus are very rarely fractured separately. Fractures of the metatarsals and phalanges usually result from direct violence, crushing the foot and severely damaging the soft parts. The use of the Rbntgen rays has shown, however, that certain painful conditions in the foot following comparatively slight injuries, such as kicking a stone, or walking over frozen and uneven ground, are due to fractui’es of meta- tarsals or phalanges. When simple, these injuries are often overlooked on account of the difficulty of eliciting the signs of fracture, owing to the swelling which accompanies them. They are best treated in a rigid moulded splint. Compound fractures are more commonly met with, and are to be treated on the same principles as govern such injuries elsewhere. A fracture of the base of the fifth metatarsal has been described by Jones, of Liverj)ool. It is produced by the patient coming down forcilfiy on the outer edge of the foot while the foot is inverted and the heel raised—as, for example, in dancing. There is a localised swelling over the base of the fifth metatarsal, and pain when the patient puts weight on the foot. There is no crepitus or deformity. The fracture is readily recognised by the Riintgen rays. Massage is eni})loyed from the first, and movement may be commenced at the end of a week. Dislocations in the Reoion of the Ankle. Dislocations of the Ankle-Joint.—In describing dislocations of the astragalus from the tibio-fibular socket, the varieties are named according to the direction in which the foot passes— backward, forward, inward, outward, or upward. All of them may be complete, but are more frequently incomplete, and they are all liable to become compound, either from tearing of the skin at the time of the injury, or by its