331 INJURIES OF NERVES. are severed form new axis-cylinder processes, which are con- ducted across the gap by the intact fibres, and, provided the wound is aseptic, the conducting paths are re-established. In septic wounds the reparative process may be incomplete on account of the formation of .scar tissue between the divided fibres. When a nerve is torn across or is badly crushed—as, for example, by a fractured bone—the changes are very similar to those in a divided nerve, and the ultimate result depends on the amount of separation between the ends and the possibility of the young axis cylinders bridging the gap. Contusion of a nerve-trunk may be attended with extra- vasation of blood into the connective-tissue sheaths, and certain of the contused nerve fibres may undergo degeneration. Function is usually restored, the conducting paths being re-established by the formation of new nerve fibres. Symptoms resulting from Division and Non-Union of a Nerve-Trunk.—These necessarily vary with the functions of the affected nerve. We .shall take as an example a mixed sensori-motor trunk, such as the median or nmsculo-spiral. Sensory Phenomena. — While sensation is being tested the patient’s eyes are closed, and he is asked to indicate whenever he experiences a touch, a prick, or any other sensation. Super- ficial touch is tested by means of a wisp of cotton wool stroked gently across the skin. The capacity of di.scriminating two points as separate is investigated with a pair of l)lunt-pointed compasses. The sensation of pressure is tested by means of a pencil or other blunt object; of pain, by means of a shar]) needle. Sensibility to heat and cold is investigated by using test-tubes containing water at difl'erent temperatures. Division of a nerve containing sensory fibres results in an area of absolute cutaneous insensibility to touch (anmsthesia), to pain (analgesia), and to all degrees of temperature, surrounded by an area of loss of sensation to light touch, minor differences of temperature (72-104° F.), and discrimination of the two points of a compass (Head and Sherren) (Figs. 76, 78). Motor Phenomena.—There is immediate and com[)lete loss of voluntary power in all the muscles supplied by the divided nerve. The muscles rapidly waste, and usually within from three to five days they cease to react to the faradic current. When tested with the galvanic current they present the “ reaction of degeneration,” and after a few weeks all electric excitability is lost. The paralysed muscles undergo fatty degeneration, which attains its maximum three or four months after the division of the nerve. Further changes may take place, and