376 THE SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE. fibrous tissue, which commences in relation to the walls of the smaller blood-vessels; the bundles of fibrous tissue are for the most part parallel with the surface, and the epidermis is tightly stretched over them. There would appear to be an inherited pre- disj^osition to 'keloid. It is more frequent in the negro and in those who are, or have been, the subjects of tuberculous disease. Keloid may attack scars of the most diverse nature, such as those resulting from leech-bites, acne pustules, boils or blisters ; those resulting from operation or accidental wounds, and the scars resulting from burns, especially when situated over the sternum, are said to be specially liable. The scar becomes more and more conspicuous, is elevated above the surface, of a pinkish or brownish-pink colour, and sends out irregular prolongations around its margins. The patient may complain of itching and burning, and of great sensitiveness of the scar, even to contact vsdth the clothing. Treatment.—There is a natural hesitation to excise keloid because of the fear of its returning in the new scar. Such return, however, is very unlikely if it is excised widely and the raw surface covered over with Thiersch grafts. The irritation associated with keloid may be relieved by the ajsplication of salicylic collodion or of salicylic and creosote plaster. Epithelioma is liable to attack weak scars in persons who have reached the cancerous age, and has been observed in old people in the scar of a burn sustained in early childhood. As a result of the absence of lymphatics in scar tissue, the disease is not disseminated by the lymphatics until it has invaded the tissues outside the scar area. It should be excised widely; in the extremities it may be best to amputate the limb. . Affections of the Nails. Injuries.—When a nail is contused or crushed, blood is extravasated beneath it, and the nail is usually shed, a new one growing in its place. A splinter driven underneath the nail causes great pain, and if organisms are carried in along with it, may give rise to septic complications. The free edge of the nail should be clipped away to allow of the removal of the foreign body and of the necessary disinfection. Trophic Changes.—The growth of the nails may be interfered rvith in any disturbance of the general health. In nerve lesions, such as division of the nerve-trunks of a limb, the nails are apt to suffer along with the skin, becoming curved, brittle, or furrowed, or they may be shed.