FEACTURES OF UPPER END OF FEMUR. 517 Except in very thin subjects, the constituent elements of the hip-joint cannot be pal2Jated througli the skin. A line drawn vertically downwards from the middle of Poujjart’s ligament passes over the centre of the joint, which, in adults, lies on the same level as the tiji of the great trochanter. In children it is somewhat higher. For 2>urposes of clinical diagnosis it is necessary to locate certain bony prominences, tbe most inqiortant being;—(1) anterior superior iliac spine, which is most readily recognised by running the lingers along Poupart’s ligament from within outwards. (2) The ischial tuberosity, which in the extended position of the limb is overlajjped by the lower margin of the gluteus maximus muscle, and is therefore not easily located with j)recision. By flexing the limb and making jiressure from be- low ujiw'ards in the gluteal fold the smooth, rounded prominence can usually be detected. (3) The quadri- lateral great trochanter is readily recognised on the outer asjiect of the hip. Its highest point or tip can best be felt by pressing over the gluteal muscles from above downw’ards. Clinical Tests. — If a line is drawn from the anterior sup>erior iliac spine to the most prominent ]iart of the ischial tuberosity, it just touches the tip of the great trochanter. This is known as Nilaton’s line (Fig. 166). Bnjant's test (Fig. 167) is applied with the i)atient lying on his back, and consists in droj)ping a perjiendicular AB from the anterior superior iliac spine, and drawing a line CD from the tip of the great trochanter to intersect the perpendicular at right angles. This is done on both sides of the body, and the length of the lines CD compared. Shortening on one side indicates an upward displacement of the trochanter, lengthening a downward displacement. The third side AC of the triangle indicates the distance between the anterior spine and the tip of the trochanter. Chiene’s test, w hich is simi)ler than either of these, consists in apply- ing a strip of lead or tape across the front of the body at the level of the anterior sujierior iliac sjnnes, and another touching the tij)s of the two trochanters. Any want of jiarallelisni in these lines indicates a change in the position of one or other trochanter. Fig. 167.—Bryant’s Lines. Fracture.s of the Upper End of the Femur. It will be convenient here to study the various fractures of the ui)per end of the femur which are liable to be confused with one another and with dislocations of the hip. These include fractures of the head, the neck, the trochanters, and separation of the upper ei)iphyses, and fracture of the shaft just below the trochanters.