724 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. fixed in plaster in the attitude of abduction and eversion for fourteen days, and then another attempt made. Reduction is successful in the great majority of children under six years of age, and the younger the child the greater is the prospect of success. Although the above method of treatment does not always enable us to restore the condition to the normal, the functional results obtained are extremely satisfactory. Reduction hy open operation may be had recourse to in cases in which after several attempts reduction has failed, or in which redislocation has occurred. The operation consists in exposing the joint by a lateral or anterior incision, drawing aside the muscles, dividing the capsular ligament, displacing the head of the bone, enlarging and deepening the acetabulum by means of the gouge, and replacing the head in the socket. Subcutaneous tenotomy of the adductor and hamstring tendons may be neces- sary. The best results are obtained when this operation is performed between the third and eighth years. In young adults who are seriously incapacitated by the defor- mity, an attempt may be made to improve the condition of affairs; this may be accomplished by an operation which secures a firm fibrous ankylosis at the hip in the abducted position of the limb. Paralytic Deformities of the Hip. — These result from infantile or from spastic paralysis, and are often associated witli deformities of the knee and ankle. In infantile paralysis the hip- joint may become flail-like and useless—a condition which may be relieved by wearing a supporting apparatus. In spastic paralysis the tendency is towards contracture, u.sually in the attitude of flexion with adduction and inversion, and this may be remedied by massage, weight extension, and division of the shortened structures—the adductors, tensor fascise femoris, sartorius, and filio-tibial band; the patient is then placed in a double abduction frame, precautions being taken to prevent the formation of pressure sores. The contracture may finally result in dislocation on to the dorsum ilii, and this may even occur in patients who are confined to bed (Fig. 278). Reduction of the dislocation is rarely possible without having recourse to an open operation. Contractures and Ankyloses of the Hip.—Other forms of contracture are met with as a result of cicatricial contraction, or from shortening of the fascise, muscles, and ligaments in conditions in which the hip is maintained in the flexed position for long periods—for example, in psoas abscess, chronic rheumatism, or hysteria. The majority, however, result from