INJURIES. 222 Contused and Lacerated Wounds.—These may be considered together, as they so occur in practice. They are produced by crushing, biting, or tearing forms of violence—such as result from machinery accidents, firearms, or the bites of animals. In addition to the irregular wound of the integument there is always more or less bruising of the parts beneath and around, and the lesions are usually much wider in area than at first sight appears. Wounds of this variety usually gape considerably, especially when there is much laceration of the skin. It is not uncommon to have considerable portions of skin, muscle, or tendon com- jjletely torn away. Haemorrhage is seldom a prominent feature, as the crushing or tearing of the vessel walls leads to the obliteration of the lumen. The special risks of these wounds are : (1) Sloughing of the bruised tissues, especially when attempts to sterilise the wound have not been completely successful. (2) Reactionary haemorrhage after the initial shock has passed off. (3) Secondary haemorrhage as a result of septic processes ensuing in the wound. (4) Loss of muscle or tendon, interfering with motion. (5) Cicatricial con- traction. (6) Gangrene, which may follow occlusion of main vessels, or virulent infective processes. (7) It is not uncommon to have particles of carbon embedded in the tissues after lacerated wounds, leaving unsightly, pigmented scars. This is often seen in coal-miners, and in those injured by firearms, and is to be prevented by carefully removing all gross dirt from the edges of the wound. Treatment.—In severe wounds of this class implicating the extremities, the most important question that arises is whether or not the limb can be saved. In examining the limb, attention should first be directed to the state of the main blood-vessels, in order to determine if the vascular supply of the part beyond the lesion is sufficient to maintain its vitality. Amputation is usually called for if there is complete absence of pulsation in the distal arteries and if the parts are cold. If at the same time important nerve-trunks are lacerated, the probability of gangrene ensuing is increased. If, in addition, there is exten- sive destruction of large muscular masses or of important tendons, or comminution of the bones, amputation is usually imperative. Strij^ping of large areas of skin is not in itself a reason for removing a limb, as much can be done to replace skin by graft- ing, but when it is associated with other lesions it favours the major operation. In considering these points it must be borne in mind that the damage to the deeper tissues is always more