141 METHODS OF INFECTION. in illustration of the fact may be cited the case of a servant girl who cut her finger with a broken spittoon containing the sputum of her consumptive master; the wound subsequently showed evidence of tuberculous infection, which ultimately S[)read up along the lymphatic vessels of the arm. Pathologists, too, whose hands, unless they are protected by rubber gloves, are frequently exposed to the contact of tuberculous tissues and pus, are liable to suffer from a form of tuberculosis of the skin of the finger, known as anatomical tubercle. Slight wounds of the feet in children who go about barefoot in towns sometimes become infected with tubercle. Operation wounds made with instruments contaminated with tuberculous material have also been known to become infected. It is highly probable that the common form of tuberculosis of the skin known as “lupus” arises by direct infection from without. In the vast majority of cases the tubercle bacillus gains entrance to the body by way of the internal mucous surfaces, the organisms being either inhaled or swallowed. The respiratory mucous membrane, from the nose and mouth to the terminations of the air-tubes in the lungs, is constantly exi)osed to infection by the inhalation of air laden with dust and other minute particles to which the virus is adherent. The existence of inflammation, or of some superficial lesion of these mucous surfaces, favours the entrance of the bacilli into the tissues, whence they pass by way of the lymphatic vessels to the glands. The glands most frequently infected in this way are the cervical glands, and those within the cavity of the chest —particularly the bronchial glands at the root of the lung. The entrance of the bacilli into one or other of these groups of glands may result in active tuberculous disease of the infected group. On the other hand, there is reason to believe that the organisms may lie in a dormant or latent condition for an almost indefinite period, and only become active long afterwards, when some general depression of the patient’s health produces conditions which favour their growth. When the organisms become active in this way, the tuberculous tissue may undergo softening and disintegration, the infective material may erupt into an adjacent vein, and thus entering the general circula- tion, may be carried by the blood-stream to distant parts of the body, and so give rise either to a localised tuberculosis elsewhere or to a general tuberculosis. The initial infection of the lymphatic glands within the chest, being unattended with any external or clinical evidence of its occurrence, remains unrecognised and unsuspected, and the patient, usually