THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 264 the symptoms resulting from haemorrhage depends as much on the rapidity with which the bleeding takes place as on the amount of blood lost. The sudden loss of a large quantity of blood, whether from an open wound or into a serous cavity — for example, after rupture of the liver or spleen—is attended with marked pallor of the surface of the body and coldness of the skin, especially of the face, feet, and hands. The skin is moist with a cold, clammy sweat, and beads of perspiration stand out on the forehead. The pulse becomes feeble, soft, and rapid, and the f>atient is faint and listless, and complains of extreme thirst. The temperature is usually sub- normal ; and the respiration rapid, shallow, and sighing in character. Abnormal visual sensations, in the form of hashes of light or spots before the eyes; and rushing, buzzing, or ringing sounds in the ears are often complained of. The occurrence of post-haemorrhagic leucocytosis has been already referred to (p. 22). In extreme cases phenomena which have been aptly described as those of “air hunger” ensue. On account of the small quantity of blood circulating through the body, the tissues are imperfectly oxygenated, and the patient experiences sensations as of suffocation. He is extremely restless, gasps for breath, constantly throws about his arms and bares his chest in the vain attempt to breathe more freely. Faintness and vertigo are marked features. The diminished supply of oxygen to the brain and to the muscles produces muscular twitchings, and sometimes convulsions. Finally, the pupils dilate, the sjjhincters relax, and death ensues. Young children stand the loss of blood badly, but they quickly recover as the regeneration of blood takes place rapidly. In old people also, and especially when they are fat, the loss of blood is badly borne, and the ill-effects last longer, and may even be jjermanent. Women, on the whole, stand loss of blood better than men, and in them the blood is more rapidly replaced. Treatment.—The treatment is practically the same as that of shock. The patient should be placed at rest in a warm, well-ventilated room, and the foot of the bed should be ele- vated. Cardiac stimulants, such as strychnine or alcohol, must be judiciously administered, over-stimulation being carefully avoided. The inhalation of oxygen has been found useful in relieving the more urgent symptoms of dyspnoea. The blood may be emptied from the limbs into the vessels of the trunk, where it is more needed, by holding them vertically in the air for a few minutes, and then applying a firm elastic bandage over a layer of cotton wool.