578 CHAPTER XXVIII. DISEASES OF BONE. Anatomy and pliysiology — Regeneration of bone — Transplantation of bone. Diseases of Bone—Definition of terms—Pyogenic diseases: Acute osteomyelitis and periostitis; Chronic and relapsing osteo- myelitis ; Abscess of bone—Tuberculous diseases—Syphilitic diseases —Hydatids ; Rickets ; Osteomalacia—Tumours of bone. Surgical Anatomy.—During the period of growth a long bone, such as the tibia, consists of a shaft or diap>hysis, and two extremities or epiphyses. So long as growth continues there intervenes between the shaft and each of the epiphyses a disc of actively growing cartilage—the epiphysial cartilage ; and at the junction of this cartilage with the shaft is a zone of young, vascular, spongy bone known as the ossifying or epipihysial junction. The shaft is a cylinder of compact bone enclosing the medullary canal, which is filled with marrow. The extremities, which include the o.ssifying junctions, consist of sj)ongy bone, the spaces of which are filled with marrow. The articular aspect of the epiphysis is invested with a thick layer of hyaline cartilage, known as the articular cartilage. The external investment of the bone—the periosteum—is thick and vascular during the period of growth, but becomes thin and less vascular when the skeleton has attained maturity. Except where muscles are attached it is easily separated from the bone ; at the extremities it is intimately connected with the epiphysial cartilage and with the epi])hysis, and at the margin of the latter it beconit s continuous with the capsular ligament of the adjacent joint. It consists of two layers, an outer fibrous and an inner cellular layer, the latter being concerned with the formation of new bone. The arrangement of the blood-vessels determines to some extent the incidence of certain diseases of bone. The autrient artery, after enter- ing the medullary canal through a special foramen in the cortex, bifurcates, and one main division runs towards each of the extremities of the bone, and terminates at the ossifying junction in a series of capillary loops projected against the epiphysial cartilage. This arrange- ment of capillary loops favours the lodgment of any organisms which may be circulating in the blood, and partly accounts for the frequency with which diseases of bacterial origin develop in the region of the ossifying junction. The shaft of the bone is also nourished by numerous blood-vessels from the periosteum, which jienetrate the cortex through