322 THE LYMPHATICS. and submitted to microscopical examination. The subsequent progress usually clears up the diagnosis. Signs of liquefaction and suppuration in the glands indicate the tuberculous nature of the disease. Other forms of sarcoma, and the enlargement of an accessory thyroid, are less likely to be confused with glandular tumours. Glandular enlargement from secondary cancer may closely simulate tuberculosis—especially when the cancerous glands have undergone liquefaction—but is to be differentiated by its association with cancer in the mouth, throat, or other adjacent part, and by the early induration and fixation of the glands affected. Cold abscess resulting from tuberculous glands is to be distinguished from that due to disease in the cervical spine, as well as from congenital and other cystic swellings in the neck. Prognosis.—Next to lujms, glandular disease is of all tuber- culous lesions the least dangerous to life. Nevertheless, a large proportion of those who suffer from it in childhood or youth afterwards suffer from tuberculous disease in bones and joints, and in internal organs, especially the lungs. So far as the disease in the glands is concerned, the prognosis is materially influenced by the social circumstances of the patient and by the treatment adopted. Treatment.—The morbid conditions vary so widely in different cases that no one line of treatment can be expected to suffice in all: every case must be considered and treated on its own merits. The extent of the disease, its duration and progress, the previous treatment and its results, and the general health and surroundings of the patient must all be taken into account. When seen in the early stages, before there are any signs of liquefaction in the gland, the disease may be arrested by removing any peripheral irritation in the mouth or throat, and improving the general health by fresh air, good food, and cod-liver oil. Arsenic is useful in diminishing the peri-adenitis. External applications such as iodine or mercurial ointment are of doubtful value. A wire or felt splint may be employed to restrain the movements of the head and neck, but in most cases it is sufficient to apply cotton wool and a bandage. It is at this stage that exposure to the X-rays is most likely to be of value. Two or three applications per week for two or three montlis are usually necessary to give the method a fair trial. When seen at a later stage, when, in spite of the above treat- ment, the glandular enlargement persists, and especially if it is on the increase, and there is involvement of fresh glands, removal by operation should be recommended.