94 GANGEENE. form of local death resulting, as a rule, from a, diminution in the arterial blood-supply of the affected parts, due to such causes as the sudden blocking of the main vessel of supply by a thrombus, or the gradual diminution of the lumen of the arteries by atheroma. The fluids in the tissues are lost by evaporation, and the part becomes dry and shrivelled. As the skin is usually intact, bacterial infection does not take place, or if it does, the want of moisture in the part renders it an unsuitable soil, and the organisms do not readily find a footing. Thus the effects of sepsis are absent, and any spread of the process which may take place is influenced by the anatomical distribution of the blocked arteries, and is arrested as soon as it reaches an area rich in anastomotic vessels. The throwing off of the dead portion is brought about by the forma- tion of what is known as a line of demarcation. The irritation resulting from the contact of the dead with the still living tissue causes hypersemia with dilatation of the blood-vessels, and infiltration with leucocytes on the proximal side of the junction. Granulations soon sprout from the living tissue, and by slowly eating into the dead portion produce a furrow, which gradually deepens until the complete separation of the slough is effected. Owing to the way in which the blood-vessels are distributed, the death of skin and subcutaneous tissues extends higher than that of muscles and bone, with the result that the stump left after spontaneous separation is conical, the end of the bone projecting beyond the soft parts. Clinical Features. — The part undergoing mortification becomes colder than normal, the temperature falling to that of the surrounding atmosphere. In many instances, but not in all, the onset of the process is accompanied by severe neuralgic pains in the part, probably due to anaimia of the nerves, to neuritis, or to the irritation of the exposed axis cylinders by the dead and dying tissues around them. This pain soon ceases and gives place to a complete loss of sensation. The dead part becomes dry, horny, shrivelled, and semi-transparent—at first of a dark-brown, but finally of a black colour, from the dissemina- tion of blood pigment throughout the tissues. There is no putrefaction, and therefore no disagreeable odour; and the condition being non-infective, there is not necessarily any con- stitutional disturbance. In itself, therefore, a loss of tissue by the process of dry gangrene does not involve immediate risk to the life of the patient. The danger lies in the fact that the raw surface at the line of demarcation furnishes a possible means of entrance for bacteria, which may lead to septic complications.