131 GLANDEES. the bacillus gives rise to two distinct types of disease—acute glanders, and chronic glanders or farcy. Acute Glanders is most commonly met with in the horse and in other equine animals, horned cattle being immune. It affects the septum of the nose and adjacent parts, hrm, translucent, greyish nodules containing lymphoid and epithelioid cells appearing in the mucous membrane. These nodules sub- sequently break down in the centre, forming irregular ulcers, which are attended with ju’ofuse discharge, anil marked inflam- matory swelling. The cervical lymphatic glands, as well as the lungs, spleen, and liver, may be the seat of secondary nodules. In man acute glanders is commoner than the chronic variety. Infection always takes place through an abraded surface, and u.sually on one of the uncovered parts of the body—most commonly the skin of the hands, arms, or face; or on the mucous membrane of the mouth, nose, or eye. The disease has been acquired liy accidental inoculation in the course of experimental investigations in the laboratory, and proved fatal. The incubation period is from three to five days. The local manifestations are pain and swelling in the region of the infected wound, with inflammatory redness around it and along the lines of the superficial lymphatics. In the course of a week, small, firm nodules, with an oedematous, inflammatory base, appear, and are rapidly transformed into pustules. These may occur on the face and in the vicinity of joints, and may be mistaken for the eruption of small-pox. After breaking down, these pustules give rise to irregular ulcers, which by their confluence lead to exten.sive destruction of skin. Sometimes the nasal mucous membrane becomes affected and produces a discharge—at first watery, but later sanious and purulent. Necrosis of the bones of the nose may take place, in which case the discharge becomes peculiarly offensive. In nearly every case metastatic abscesses form in different parts of the body, such as the lungs, joints, or muscles. During the development of the disease the patient feels ill, complains of headache and pains in the limbs, the temperature rises to 104° or even to 106° F., and assumes a pyaemic type. The pulse becomes rapid and weak. The tongue is dry and brown. There is profuse sweating, albuminuria, and often insomnia with delirium. Death may take place within a week, but more frequently occurs during the second or third week. Differential Diagnosis.—There is nothing characteristic in the site of the primary lesion in man, and the condition may, during the early stages, be mistaken for a boil or carbuncle, or