122 BACTERIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. The temperature is moderately raised (100° to 102° F.), or may remain normal throughout. Shortly before death very high temperatures (110° F.) have been recorded, and it has been observed that the thermometer sometimes continues to rise after death, and may reach as high as 112° F. or more. The pulse corresponds with the febrile condition. It is accelerated during the spasms, and may become exceedingly rapid and feeble before death, probably from paralysis of the vagus. Sudden death fronr cardiac paralysis or from cardiac spasm is not uncommon. The respiration is affected in so far as the spasms of the respiratory muscles produce dyspnoea, and a feeling of impend- ing suffocation which adds to the horrors of the disease. Death from respiratory spasm sometimes takes place during a severe fit. One of the most constant symptoms is a copious perspiration, the patient being literally bathed in sweat. The urine is diminished in quantity, but as a rule is normal in composition; as in other acute infective conditions, albumen and blood may be present. Retention of urine may result from spasm of the urethral muscles. The appetite is lost, the tongue foul, and constipation most obstinate. Gradually the patient becomes exhausted. The fits may cease some time before death, or, on the other hand, death may occur during a paroxysm from fixation of the diaphragm and arrest of respiration. Clinical Varieties of Tetanus.—Acvte or Fulminating Tetanus.—This variety has been described as the type of the disease. It is characterised, as we have seen, by the rapidity of its progress, the severity of its symptoms, and its all but uni- versally fatal issue in spite of treatment, death taking place in from one to four days. Chronic Tetanus.—The difference between this and acute tetanus is mainly one of degree. Its incubation period is longer, it is more slow and insidious in its progress, and it never reaches the same degree of severity. Trismus is the most marked and constant form of spasm; and while the trunk muscles may be involved, those of respiration as a rule escape. Every additional day the patient lives adds to the probability of his ultimate recovery. When the disease does prove fatal it is from exhaustion, and not from respiratory or cardiac spasm. The usual duration is from six to ten weeks. Trismus.—This term is used to denote a form of tetanic spasm limited to the muscles of mastication. It is really a mild form of chronic tetanus, and the prognosis is good. It