118 BACTERIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. The initial dose should be a large one, certainly not less than 3000 units, and a further injection of 1500 units should be given in twelve hours if marked improvement does not take place. The earlier the injection, and the more concentrated the serum, the better are the results. Within twenty-four hours of the injection the local symptoms usually begin to subside, and the membrane separates and is thrown off. At the same time the temperature falls, the pulse becomes slower, and the general condition of the jjatient improves. Beyond certain erythematous and urticarial rashes, and transient joint pains, which sometimes occur, no incon- venience attends the use of the serum. It may therefore be given \vith benefit and safety even while the diagnosis is still in doubt, or as a prophylactic measure to those exposed to the disease—for example, in public schools. The general strength of the patient must be maintained by abundance of liquid food and stimulants. Difficulty of swallowing nourishment may be met by the use of a stomach tube passed either through the moutli or nose. When this is impracticable, nutrient enemata are called for. The introduction of the antitoxin treatment has greatly diminished the number of cases in which it becomes necessary to have recourse to intubation or tracheotomy on account of interference with respiration. Intubation consists in introducing through the mouth into the larynx a tube which allows the patient to breathe freely during the period while the membrane is becoming separated and thrown off. This is best done with the apparatus of O’Dwyer; but when this instrument is not available, a simple gum-elastic catheter with a terminal opening (as suggested by Macewen and Annandale) is equally efficient. It is only in exceptional cases that the operation of tracheotomy is called for. Diphtheria in other situations.—The diphtheritic process may spread from the pharynx to the nasal cavities, causing blocking of the nares, with a profuse ichorous discharge from the nostrils, and sometimes severe epistaxis. The inflammation may spread along the nasal duct to the conjunctiva. The middle ear also may become involved by spread along the Eustachian tube. In children di})htheria may occur in the vulva, vagina, prepuce, or glans penis, and give rise to difficulty in diagnosis, which is only cleared up by microscopic examination of the discharge.