DISEASES OF JOINTS. 648 membrane and floating in the fluid as shapeless flakes or masses. Under the influence of joint movements this fibrin may assume the shape of melon seed bodies (Fig. 254). More rarely the joint contains tuberculous pus, and the surface of the synovial membrane resembles the wall of a cold abscess. Ulceration of Cartilage.—The synovial tissue covering the cartilage acquires the characters of a tuberculous infiltration and exhibits aggressive qualities. It then causes pitting and per- foration of the cartilage, makes its way through it, and often spreads widely between it and the subjacent bone, so as to separate the cartilage, sometimes in portions of considerable size. These are the changes commonly spoken of as ulceration of cartilage. The cartilage is destroyed more rapidly and exten- sively when it overlies a focus in the bone, and the latter being then exposed in the joint, contributes to the progress of the disease. Caries of Articular Surfaces. — Changes in the bone may precede or follow upon destruction of the articular cartilage. They consist in tuberculous infiltration of the marrow in the surface cancelli, and breaking up of the spongy framework of the bone into minute irregular fragments. This disintegration of the bone is known as caries. When the destructive changes in the articular surfaces are very pronounced, and when at the same time there is an absence of caseation and suppuration, the condition is called caries sicca. The mutual pressure of articular surfaces against one another favours the progress of ulceration of cartilage and of articular caries. These processes are usually more advanced in the areas most exposed to pressure—for example, in the case of the hip- joint, on the superior aspect of the head of the femur, and on the posterior and upper segment of the acetabulum. The occurrence of 'pathological dislocation is due to softening and stretching of the ligaments which normally retain the bones in position, and to some factor causing displacement, which may be the accumulation of fluid or of granulations in the joint, the involuntary contraction of muscles, or some movement or twist of the limb. The occurrence of dislocation is also favoured by destructive changes in the bones. Peri-articular tubercle and abscess may result from the spread of disease from the bone or joint into the surrounding tissues, either directly or by way of the lymphatics. A peri-articular abscess may spread in several directions, sometimes invading tendon sheaths or bursai, and finally reaches the skin surface by tortuous sinuses.