694 DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. It has been known to take place during sleep from spasmodic contraction of muscles. In dorsal dislocation, which is the most common form, adduction and inversion are j^i’onounced, the trochanter projects above and behind Nelaton’s line, and the head of the bone may be felt on the dorsum ilii. It is a striking fact that after dislocation has occurred there is less complaint of pain or of startings than before, and passive move- ments may be carried out which were previously impossible. Diagnosis of Hip Disease.—The diagnosis is to be made not only from other affections of the joint itself, but also from morbid conditions in the vicinity of the hip, as in any of these the patient may seek advice on account of pain and a limp in walking. The patient should be stripped, and if able to walk, his gait should be observed. He is then examined lying on his back, and attention is directed to the comparative length of the limbs, to the attitude of the limbs and pelvis, and to the movements at the hip-joint, especially those of rotation. When there is any doubt as to the diagnosis, the examination should be repeated at intervals of a week or ten days. In children, there are three non-febrile conditions attended with a limp and with shortening of the limb, which may be mistaken for hip disease—congenital dislocation, coxa vara, and infantile ■paralysis—but in all of these the normal movements are less restricted than in disease of the joint, and the history is different. In tuberculous disease of the sacro-iliac joint, while the pelvis may be tilted, and the limb apparently lengthened, the movements at the hip are retained. In tuberculous disease of the great trochanter, or of either of the bursae over it, the resemblance to hip disease is very close, there may be abduction, eversion, impahment of mobility, and swelling in the region of the trochanter followed by abscess formation, but the move- ments are less restricted than in disease of the joint. In psoas abscess associated with spinal disease, or in disease of the bursa underneath the psoas, the limb is flexed and everted, there may be lordosis, and the patient may walk with a limp. The movements at the hip are restricted only in the directions of extension and inversion, while in hip disease they are restricted in all directions. New growths in the vicinity of the hip—especially com- mencing sarcoma of the upper end of the femur—may be very difficult to differentiate from hip disease. In sarcoma there is no rigidity at the joint, and skiagrams usually give definite information.