THE NERVES. 350 fractures of the upper end of the bone. It has been divided in accidental wounds—by a scythe, for example—and in performing subcutaneous tenotomy of the biceps tendon. Cases-have been observed of paralysis of the nerve as a result of ^Jrolonged acute flexion of the knee in certain occupations. When the nerve is paralysed the most obvious result is “ drop-foot.” The patient is unable to dorsiflex the foot and cannot lift his toes off the ground, so that in walking he is obliged to throw or jerk the foot forwards and outwards. There is loss of all sensibility over the dorsum of the foot and of sensibility to light touch over a considerable portion of the outer aspect of the leg. In course of time the foot becomes markedly inverted and the toes are pointed—pes equino-varus—and trophic sores are liable to form. The internal popliteal nerve, from its anatomical situation, is but rarely injured. The sciatic nerve also is little exposed to injury. When it is compressed, as by sitting on a fence, there is tingling and powerlessness in the limb as a whole, but these phenomena are usually evanescent. This is commonly known as sleeping of the limb. The most important surgical lesion of the nerve-trunk is when a portion of it has been resected in removing a tumour. Although the limb is at first quite powerless, the patient usually recovers sufficiently to be able to walk without a support. The chief clinical feature is “ drop-foot.” Although the ham- strings are paralysed, the knee can still be Hexed by the sartorius and gracilis. The foot is usually cold and bluish, and may [)resent trophic sores. The skin is anaesthetic except in the distribution of the long saphenous nerve, on the inner aspect of the lower half of the leg and inner side of the foot. The anterior crural and ohturator nerves ai’e so rarely injured that they do not merit separate consideration. NEURALGIA. The term neuralgia is applied clinically to any pain which follows the course of a particular nerve and its branches, and which is not referable to any definite lesion of the nerve, or to any other discoverable cause. This term should not be applied to pain which results from pressure on a nerve by a tumour, a mass of callus, an aneurysm, or by any similar gross lesion.