SECONDARY CANCER. 631 routine procedure. It must be stated, however, that witliiii recent years conservative operations of the nature of resections have been performed, and in some instances with success, even in the case of cellular sarcomata (Mikulicz). Before proceeding to perform amputation for a supposed sarcoma the tumour should be cut into and examined to make certain of its nature. In amputating, provided the tissues are divided well beyond the tumour, it is not always necessary to go as high as the joint above; skin-fla2)s with circular division of muscles is the method of choice. In tumours involving the upper end of the humerus, it is usually necessary to remove the shoulder girdle along with the arm. In cases where removal of the tumour can hold out no prosjject of permanent recovery, discharge or hiemorrhage may be a sufficient indication for amputation; and in cases in which pain is a prominent feature, it may be worth while to trephine the shell of the bone, to relieve tension. Pulsating Haematoma or Aneurysm of Bone. — A limited number of these are cavernous erectile tumours dating from a congenital angioma. The majority would appear to be the result of changes in a sarcoma, endothelioma, or myeloma. The tumour tissue largely or entirely disappears, while the vessels and vascular spaces undergo a remarkable development. The tumour may come to be re[)resented by one large blood- containing space communicating with the arteries of the limb; the walls of the space consist of the remains of the original tumour, jjlus a shell of bone of varying thickness. The most common seats of the condition are the lower end of the femur, the upjier end of the tibia, and the bones of the pelvis. The clinical features are those of a pulsating tumour of slow development, and as in true aneurysms, pulsation and bruit disappear on compression of the main artery. The origin of the tumour from bone may be revealed by the presence of egg- shell crackling, and by examination with the X-rays. If the condition is believed to be innocent, the treatment is the same as for aneurysm—preferably by ligation of the main artery ■, if malignant, amputation is called for. Secondary Tumours of Bone.—These include all varieties of tumours which are capable of occurring by metastasis, and those which spread to the bone by direct continuity. Metastatic Ihmiours.—Secondary cancer is a comparatively common disease in bone. Its characters depend on the nature of the primary growth from which it arises. The soft forms grow’ rapidly, and are chai'acterised by eating away of the bone.