63 CHRONIC SUPPURATION. Cellulitis of the axilla may originate in an infected wound of the hand which has been followed by sujipuration in the lymphatic glands, or it may spread from a septic wound on the chest wall or in the neck. In some cases it is impossible to discover the primary seat of infection. A firm, brawny swelling forms in the arm-pit and extends on to the chest wall. It is attended with great pain, which is increased on moving the arm, and there is marked constitutional disturbance. When suppuration occurs its s])read is limited by the attachments of the axillary fascia, and the pus tends to burrow on to the chest wall between the pectoral muscles, and upwards towards the shoulder-joint, into which it may burst and so give rise to a sei)tic ^arthritis. When the pus forms in the axillary space, the treatment consists in making free incisions which should be placed on the thoracic side of the axilla to avoid the axillary vessels and nerves. If the pus spreads on to the chest wall the abscess should be opened below the clavicle by Hilton’s method. Conditions similar to whitlow occur in the toes and sole of the foot, but with much less frequency than in the fingers and hand. In the region of the ankle cellulitis is not common; but around the knee it frequently occurs in relation to the [irepatellar bursa and in the popliteal lymphatic glands, and may endanger the knee-joint'. It is Jijso met with in the groin following on inflammation and suppuration of the glands, and cases are recorded in which the sloughing process has implicated the femoral vessels and led to secondary hsemorrhage. Cellulitis of the scalp, orbit, neck, pelvis, and perineum will be considered with the diseases of these regions. Chronic Suppuration. While it is true that a chronic pyogenic abscess is sometimes met with—for example, in the breast and in the marrow of long bones—in the great majority of instances the formation of a chronic or cold abscess is the result of the action of the tubercle bacillus. It is, therefore, more convenient to study this form of suppuration with tuberculosis, and the reader is referred to the chapter on that subject. Local Results of Suppuration when Healing is Prevented—Sinus and Fistula. A Sinus is a track leading from a focus of suppuration in the tissues to a cutaneous or mucous surface. There are two varieties