TALIPES EQUINO-VAFtUS. 713 soft parts, Inrt with changes in the bones resulting from their having grown in adaptation to the deformed attitude. The soft parts most requiring division are tlie tendo Acliillis, the internal and posterior ligaments of the ankle, the plantar fascia, the calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments, and the tibialis posticus tendon. The varus deformity may then be corrected by laying the foot on its outer side on a i>added triangular wooden block, and pressing forcibly on the anterior and posterior ends of the foot so as to undo the curve on its inner side and allow of abduction of the foot; this is usually attended with cracking as the shortened ligaments give way. The equinus element is next corrected by forcibly dorsi-flexing the foot until the deformity is over-corrected. If it is preferred to correct the deformity in stages instead of at one sitting, the equinus element is left to the last. In older children, the strength of the hands is usually in- sufficient and mechaidcal wrenches may be employed, such as those devised by Thomas, Bradford, or Lorenz. Plidps’ operation (A. M. Phelps, 1878), which consists in open division of the soft parts on the inner aspect of the foot, is indicated in moderately severe cases of club-foot in which the bones are still to a large extent cartilaginous. Having rendered the foot bloodless, and having divided the tendo Acliillis and posterior ligament of the ankle sub- cutaneously, a transverse incision is made across the inner, concave, aspect of the foot opposite the astragalo-scaphoid joint, dividing everything down to the bone, the foot meanwhile being forcibly abducted, everted, and dorsi-hexed. The gaping wound is then closed by a flap of the redundant skin dissected up from the dorsum, and the foot is secured in the over-corrected attitude. Resection of a wedge from the tarsus (Davies Colley, 1876) is reserved for the most severe cases in which the shape and rigidity of the bones absolutely prevent correction of the deformity by any other means. A curved incision is made on the outer side over the most prominent part of the convexity of the tarsus, the soft parts are separated and drawn aside, anti by means of an osteotome a wedge of bone, sufficiently large to admit of over-correction of the deformity, is removed. The base of the wedge is on the outer aspect and the bone removed includes parts of the os calcis, cuboid, astragalus, and scaphoid. The tendo Acliillis and tibialis posticus are divided with a tenotomy knife. The wound is closed and the foot maintained in position by bandages and splints. Removal of the astragalus is an alternative operation to resection of the tarsus, and yields at least equally good results.