TUBERCULOUS ABSCESS. 151 sinus. The aim of the present methods of treatment is to destroy the tuberculous tissue in the wall of the abscess, for in it is contained the tuberculous infection which is the cause both of the abscess and of the persistence of discharge after it has been opened. This is carried out in various ways, according to the situation and extent of the abscess. We shall consider in the first place the various procedures employed when the skin over the abscess is intact. Theoretically the most certain measure is to excise the abscess as a tvhole, as if it were a tumour; but in practice this is seldom possible except in the small subcutaneous abscesses or strumous nodes met with in children. Evacuation of the Abscess .and Injection of Iodoform.—The iodoform is employed in the form of a ten per cent, solution in ether or the same proportion .suspended in glycerin. Either form becomes sterile soon after it is prepared. Its curative effects would appear to depend upon the liberation of iodine, which restrains the activity of the bacilli, and upon its capacity for irritating the tissues and so inducing a protective leucocytosis, and also of stimulating the formation of scar tissue. An anaes- thetic is rarely called for, except in children. The abscess is first evacuated by means of a large trocar and cannula intro- duced obliquely through the overlying soft parts, avoiding any part where the skin is thin or red. If the cannula becomes blocked with caseous material it must be cleared with a probe. The iodoform is injected by means of a glass-barrelled syringe, which should be firmly screwed on to the cannula. The amount injected varies with the size of the abscess and the age of the patient; it may be said to range from two or three drams in the case of children to several ounces in larger abscesses in adults. The cannula is then withdrawn, and the puncture covered with a gauze dressing, and bandaged so as to exert a certain amount of compression. If the abscess fills up again, the procedure should be repeated. When the contents of the abscess are semi-solid and cannot be withdrawn even through a large cannula, a small incision must be made, and, after emptying the cavity, the iodoform is introduced through a short rubber tube attached to the syringe. The injection is continued while the wound is being closed with sutures, so that when the operation is completed the cavity will be distended with the fluid. The method is only satisfactory if the wound heals by first intention. Experience has shown that even large abscesses, such as those associated with spinal disease, may be cured by iodoform injection.