BURN'S AND SCALDS. 237 the blisters of burns, tliese must be opened and the raised epithelium removed. The dressings subsequently ai)plied should meet the following indications : the relief of pain ; the prevention of sepsis ; and the promotion of cicatrisation. The application which most satisfactorily fulfils these requirements is picric acid, which is applied to the surface as a watery solution—made up of picric acid, 1^ drams; absolute alcohol, 3 ounces; distilled water, 40 ounces. Pads of lint or gauze are lightly wrung out of the solution and applied over the whole of the reddened area. Th ese are covered with antiseptic wool, without any waterproof covering, and retained in position by a many- tailed bandage. The injured part should be kept at rest by a splint or other suitable appliance. The dressing should be changed once or twice a week, any portion of the original dressing which remains per- fectly dry being left undisturbed. The value of a general anaes- thetic in dressing extensive burns, especially in children, can scarcely be overestimated. Picric acid yields its best re- sults in the more superficial burns, but is useful as a primary dressing in all. As soon as the sloughs separate and a granulat- ing surface forms, the ordinary treatment for a healing sore is instituted (p. 83). Any slough under which pus has collected .should be cut away with scissors to permit of free drainage. An alternative method of treating extensive burns is by immersing the part, or even the whole body when the trunk is affected, in a bath of boracic lotion kept at the body tempera- ture, the lotion being frequently renewed. When a burn is already septic when first seen by the surgeon, it is to be treated on the same principles as govern the treatment of other infected wounds. All moist or greasy applications, such as Carron oil, carbolic oil and ointments, and all substances like collodion and dry powders, which retain discharges, entirely fail to meet the Fig. 56.—Cicatricial Contraction after Burn resulting from Bxiilosiou in Coal-pit, and causing Deformity of Eyelids, Nose, and Mouth.