55 ACUTE CIRCUMSCKIBED ABSCESS. through the skin and fascia, a grooved director is gently pushed through the deeper tissues till pus escapes along its groove, and then the track is widened by passing in a pair of dressing forceps and expanding the blades. A tube is introduced, and the subse- quent treatment carried out as in other abscesses. When the tube lies in proximity to a large blood-vessel, it should be split open, and care must be taken not to leave it in position long enough to cause ulceration of the vessel wall by pressure. Acute sup[)uration in lyni[)hatic glands, bones, joints, serous cavities, and internal organs will be described later. Acute Suppuration in a Wound.—When a wound is in- fected by pyogenic bacteria, the pathological changes already described as occurring in the formation of a circumscribed abscess take place, modified by the fact that the pus can reach the surface by bursting through the line of incision. The parts around become red, swollen, oedematous, and painful ; the stitches are tightened by the swelling, and cut into the tissues. At last the feebly united edges of the wound separate, and the pus escapes. If the stitches be now cut, pus escapes more freely, the wound gapes, and its surfaces are found to be covered with granulations bathed in pus. The surrounding inflamma- tion subsides, the discharge of pus lessens, and healing takes place by the formation of granulation tissue—the so-called “ healing by second intention.” While the pus is forming the temperature rises, and a rigor may occur. The free opening up of the wound is almost immediately followed by a fall in the tempei'ature. Wound infection may take place from catgut which has not been successfully sterilised. The local and general reactions in these cases may be very slight, and, as a rule, do not appear for seven or eight days after the operation, and, it may be, not till after the wound has healed on the surface. The pus is thick and dark, and is strictly localised to the part of the wound where catgut was employed for stitches or ligatures. It usually shows little tendency to spread throughout the whole wound, but the infected part is often long of healing. When suppuration occurs in connection with buried sutures of unabsorbable materials, such as silk, silkworm gut, or silver wire, it is apt to persist till the foreign material is cast off or removed. Suppuration may occur along the line of skin stitches, producing stitch abscesses. The infection may arise from the material used, especially catgut or silk, or, more frequently perhaps, from the growth in the patient’s skin of staphylococcus albus when the part has been imperfectly disinfected.