636 DISEASES OF JOINTS. Conditions of Impaired Mobility of Joints.—Rigidity is the fixation of a joint by the involuntary contraction of muscles. It is sometimes called false ankylosis because it disappears completely under anesthesia. It is of special value as a sign of disease in deep-seated joints, such as the hip. Contracture is the term applied when the fixation is due to permanent shortening of the soft parts surrounding the joint—for example, muscles, tendons, ligaments, fasciae, and skin. As the structures on the flexor aspect are specially liable to undergo such shortening, contracture is nearly always associated with flexion. Contracture may result from disease of the joint, or from conditions outside it—for example, disease in one of the adjacent bones, or lesions of the motor nervous mechanism such as are met with in infantile paralysis. Ankylosis is the term applied when impaired mobility results from changes involving the articular surfaces of a joint. It is frequently combined with contracture and with thickening and induration of the capsular and other ligaments. Three anatomical varieties of ankylosis are recognised — (a) The fibrous, in which there are adhesions between the opposing surfaces, which may be in the form of loose isolated bands of fibrous tissue, or may bind the bones so closely together as to obliterate the cavity of the joint. The resulting stiffness, therefore, varies from a mere restric- tion of the normal range of movement, up to a close union of the bones which altogether prevents movement. Fibrous ankylosis may follow upon injury, especially dislocation or fracture im- plicating a joint, or it may result from any form of arthritis. (fi) Cartilaginous ankylosis implies the fusion of two opposed cartilaginous surfaces. It is best seen between the patella and the trochlear surface of the femur in certain forms of tuberculous disease of the knee. The fusion of the cartilaginous surfaces is preceded by the spreading of a vascular connective tissue, derived from the synovial membrane, over the articular surfaces. Clinically, it is associated with absolute immobility, (c) Bony Fig. 243.—Osseous Ankylosis of Femur and Tibia in posi- tion of flexion.