328 CHAPTER XVI. THE NERVES. Anatomy—Wounds of Nerves : Changes in nerves after division ; Kepair and its modifications ; Clinical features ; Primary and second- ary suture — Subcutaneous Injuries of Nerves — Diseases: Neuritis; Tumours—Surgery of the individual nerves: Brachial neuralgia; Sciatica; Trigeminal neuralgia. Anatomy.—A nerve-trunk is made up of a variable number of bundles of nerve fibres surrounded and supiported by a framework of connective tissue. The nerve fibres are chiefly of the medullated type, and they run without interruption from a nerve cell or “neuron” in the brain or spinal cord to their peripiheral terminations in muscle, skin, and secretory glands. Each nerve fibre consists of a number of nerve fibrils collected into a central bundle—the axis cylinder—which is surrounded by an envelope, known as the neurilemma or sheath of Schwann. Between the neuri- lemma and the axis cylinder is the medullated sheath compiosed of a fatty substance known as myelin. This medullated sheath is interrupted at the nodes of Ranvier, and in each internode is a nucleus lying between the myelin and the neurilemma. The axis cylinder is the essential conducting structure of the nerve, while the neurilemma and the myelin act as insulating agents. The axis cylinder, depends for its nutrition on the central neuron with which it is connected, and from which it originally developed. The connective - tissue framework of a nerve-trunk consists of the perineurium, or general sheath, which surrounds all the bundles ; the epineurium, surrounding individual groups of bundles ; and the endo- neurium, a delicate connective tissue separating the individual nerve fibres. The blood-vessels and lymphatics run in these connective-tissue sheaths. According to Head and his co-workers, Sherren and Rivers, the afferent fibres in the peripheral nerves can be divided into three systems :— 1. Those which subserve deep sensibility and conduct the impmlses produced by pressure. The fibres of this system run with the motor nerves and jiass to muscles, tendons, and joints. Even division of both the ulnar and the median nerve above the wrist produees little loss of deep sensibility, unless the tendons are also cut through. A want of appreciation of this form of sensibility has' been largely responsible for