762 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. Treatment.—Mobile corrective manipulations, strapping, and the use of splints may be of service in slight cases, it is usually necessary to perform an operation in order to extend the toe permanently. Before operating, any sej^tic condition, such as a suppurating corn or bursa, must be corrected. The lateral and glenoid ligaments are divided subcutaneously; and if the toe can then be straightened, the foot is secured to a metal splint moulded to the sole and provided "with longitudinal slots o^jposite the intervals on either side of the toe affected. The toe is drawn down to the splint by passing a loop of cotton or elastic bandage round the toe and through the slots. In many cases the contraction of all the tissues on the plantar aspect, including the skin, prevents the toe being straightened even after division of the ligaments, and it is then necessary to remove the head and neck of the first phalanx through a lateral incision. We have found this to be more satisfactory than the removal of the affected toe at the metatarso-phalangeal joint, as after amputation the adjacent toes fall together and there is a tendency to the development of hallux valgus. If amputation is performed a pad of cotton wool should be worn in the vacant space. Hypertrophy of the Toes.—One or more of the toes may be the seat of hypertrophy or local giantism. This is usually present at birth or appears in early childhood, and may form part of an overgrowth involving the entire lower extremity (Fig. 306). The overgrowth may involve all the tissues equally, or the subcutaneous fat may be specially affected. The inner toes are those most commonly hypertrophied. In addition to being enlarged, the toe may be displaced from its normal axis. The hypertrophy may affect two or more toes which are fused together or webbed (Fig. 306). The treatment consists in amputating as much of the toe as will allow of the patient wearing an ordinary boot. Supernumerary Toes {Polydactylism).—These vary from mere appendages of skin to fully developed toes. If they interfere with the wearing of boots they may be removed. Webbing of the Toes {Syndactylis^n).—This may affect two or more toes, which may be united merely by a web of skin, or are so completely fused that the individual digits are only indicated by the nails. The degree of fusion is readily shown by means of skiagrams. Unless associated with congenital hypertrophy no treatment is called for.