736 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. patient walking—are of little or no value. If the deformity is at all marked, tliere should be no hesitation in recommending osteotomy. If the femur is chiefly concerned, it should be divided above the condyles after the method of Macewen, or a wedge is removed from the inner side of the femur as recom- mended by Professor Chiene. If the tibia is mainly responsible, it should be divided below the epiphysis, along with the fibula. In case of failure to remedy the de- formity completely by one of these procedures, it should be supplemented or followed by the other. It is rarely necessary to divide the tendon of the biceps or the ilio-tibial band. The patient gains in height by the opera- tion, but a considerable time usually elapses before his capacity for walking attains the normal standard. In severe cases it may be found that when the deformity is corrected by Macewen’s operation, the patella shows a marked tendency to be dis- located outwards as soon as the knee is flexed beyond a certain degree. Inasmuch as this liability to disloca- tion of the patella is a very disabling factor, it should be guarded against by putting up the limb after operation in the attitude of slight genu varum. Other forms of genu valgum than those described as resulting from rickets are relatively rare. There is a congenital form arising from faulty position of the limbs in v.tero ; a trau- matic form following fracture or epi- physial separation in the region of the knee; and a paralytic form,'usually combined with flexion, in cases of spastic jraralysis. Finally, genu valgum may be a result of osteomyelitis of the lower end of the femur, or of disease in the knee-joint, such as tuberculosis, arthritis deformans, or Charcot’s disease. Genu Varum—Bow-knee.—In this deformity, which is in nearly every respect the converse of genu valgum, the leg joins the thigh at an angle which is open inwards. It is almost invariably bilateral and of rachitic origin (Fig. 288). It is frequently associated with bow-legs. The tibia takes a greater Fig. 288.—Bow-knee in Rickety Child.