THE NEEVES. 332 result in the transformation of the muscle into fibrous tissue, which by undergoing shortening may cause deformity known as paralytic contracture. Vaso-motor Phenomena.— In the majority of cases there is an initial rise in the temperature of the part (2° to 3° F.), with redness and increased vascularity. This is followed by a fall in the local temperature, which may amount to 8° or 10° F., the parts becoming pale and cold. Sometimes the hypersemia resulting from vaso-motor paralysis is more persistent, and is associated with swelling of the parts from oedema—the so-called angio-neurotic oedema The vascularity varies with external influences, and in cold weather the parts present a bluish appearance. Trojihic Phenomena. — Owing to the disappearance of the subcutaneous fat, the skin is generally smooth and thin, and it may be abnormally dry. The hair is harsh, dry, and easily shed. The nails may become brittle and furrowed, or thick and curved, and the ends of the fingers become club-shaped. Skin eruptions, especially in the form of blisters, may occur, or there may be actual ulcers of the skin, especially in the winter months (Fig. 17). In aggravated cases the tips of the fingers may disappear from progressive ulceration, and in the sole of the foot the condition may assume the characters of the perforating ulcer. Arthropathies are occasionally met with, the joints becoming the seat of a painless effusion or hydrops, which is followed by fibrous thickening of the capsular and other liga- ments, and terminates in stiffness and fibrous ankylosis. The fingers may be seriously crippled and deformed. When a nerve is incompletely divided the injury may produce the most varying results upon muscular power and on the reaction to electrical stimulation. In many cases the muscles supplied by the injured nerve do not lose voluntary power, and they react normally to both forms of electrical stimulation. Voluntary power may remain while reaction to the interrupted current is lost; the muscles will then respond more readily to the constant current. The contraction still occurs to the negative pole more readily than to the positive, and the strength of current necessary to cause contraction is considerably reduced. This facile reaction to the- constant current also occurs when voluntary power is lost and all response to the interrupted current is abolished. It is therefore a valuable indication that the nerve has not been completely severed (Head and Sherren). Treatment of Divided Nerves.—The treatment consists in approximating the divided ends of the nerve and placing them