CLINICAL VARIETIES OF GANGRENE. 99 The ends of stumps left after spontaneous separation of the gangrenous portion require to be trimmed, sufficient bone being removed to permit of the soft parts coming together. If moist gangrene supervenes, amputation must be performed at a higher level without delay. Embolic Gangrene.—When the main artery of a part is suddenly occluded, whether by the impaction of an embolus or the formation of a thrombus in its lumen, unless the collateral circulation is sufficiently free to maintain the vitality of the tissues, gangrene results. There is sudden pain at the site of impaction of the embolus, and the pulses beyond are lost. The limb becomes cold, numb, insensitive, and j)owerless. It is often pale at first—hence the term “ white gangrene ” sometimes apj^lied to the early appear- ances, Avhich closely resemble those presented by the limb of a corpse. If the part is aseptic it becomes shrivelled, and presents the ordinary features of dry gangrene. It is very liable, however, especially in the lower extremity and where the veins also are obstructed, to become infected and to assume the characters of the moist type. The abdominal aorta may become suddenly occluded by an embolus, the obstruction extending into the iliacs and femorals,and inducing symmetrical gangrene of both extremities as high as Pou])art’s ligament. When gangrene follows occlusion of the external iliac, or of the common femoral artery, the death of the limb extends as high as the middle or upper third of the thigh. When the superficial femoral or popliteal artery is ob- structed, the veins remaining }>ervious, the anastomosis through the profunda is sufficient to maintain the vascular sujjply, and gangrene does not necessarily follow. The rupture of a popliteal aneurysm, however, by compressing the vein and the articular vessels, usually deternunes gangrene. When an embolus becomes impacted at the bifurcation of the popliteal the gangrene which ensues usually spreads well up the leg. When the axillary artery is the seat of embolic impaction and gangrene ensues, the process usually reaches the middle of the upper arm. Gangrene following blocking of the brachial at its bifurcation usually extends as far as the lower third of the forearm. Treatment.—The general treatment of embolic gangrene is the same as that for the senile form, which will be described in the next section When amputation is indicated it must be performed sufficiently high to ensure a free vascular supply to the flaps.