FRACTURES OF THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUR. 537 placing tlie liand under the seat of fracture and gently attempt- ing to raise the limb; or by fixing the upper fragment by one hand placed in front of it while the lower part of the limb is carefully lifted. It ^\dll be found that the great trochanter does not rotate with the lower segment of the femur. These tests must be emjjloyed with great caution lest the deformity be increased or the fracture rendered compound. Treatment.—After reduction has been effected under an antesthetic, extension strapping is api)lied from the ankle to a jioint well above the seat of the fracture. The thigh is then enclosed in a ferrule of Gooch splinting (Fig. 186), and a long splint apidied with the limb abducted. It is often necessary to eni})loy as much as ten or twelve pounds or more to maintain extension. Massage should be employed after the first week. The retentive apparatus should be worn for from Fig. 186.—Local Gooch Splints applied for Fracture of Shaft of Femur. The splints should reach to the fold of the liuttock. six to eight weeks, after which the patient is allowed up with crutches, which he usually requires to use for three or four weeks longei’, before he can bear his weight upon the limb. The old dictum of Nelaton that the treatment of fracture of the thigh should last for a hundred days is a safe working- rule. In fractures below the middle of the shaft a Thomas’ knee splint answers very well. This must be worn for three or four weeks. Hodgen’s splint is an equally efficient and more comfortable means of treating this fracture. In cases of oblique fracture, the patient should be warned that shortening to the extent of from three-quarters to one inch is liable to result, however carefully the treatment may be carried out. This does not necessarily ini})ly a permanent limj), as by tilting the pelvis he may be enabled to walk quite well. In many fractures of the thigh, and especially in those produced by indirect violence, the knee is sprained, and there is a considerable effusion into the joint, and this may lead to prolonged stiffness.