NEW GROWTHS IN SKIN. 369 bleed freely when abraded, are liable to ulcerate from friction and pressure, and occasionally become the starting-point of melanotic cancer. Rodent cancer sometimes originates in the slightly pigmented moles met with on the face. Overgrowths in relation to the cutaneous nerves, especially the plexiform neuroma, occasionally originate in pigmented moles. Soldau believes that the }>igmentation and overgrowth of the epidermis in moles are associated with, and probably result from, a fibro- matosis of the cutaneous nerves. Treatment.—The best way to get rid of a mole is to. excise it. If the edges of the gap cannot be brought together with sutures, recourse should be had to Thiersch grafting. In lai’ge hairy moles of the face whose size forbids excision, the hairs may be got rid of by the Rontgen rays. Horns.—Four varieties of cutaneous horn are described V>y Bland Sutton. The sebaceous horn results from the accunnrlation of the dried contents of a wen on the surface of the skin. The sebaceous material after drying up becomes cornified, and as fresh material is added to the base the horn increases in length. The vjart horn grows from a warty papilloma of the .skin. Cicatrix horns are sometimes formed by the heaping up of epidermis in the scars which result from burns. Nail horns are overgrown nails (keratomata of the nail-bed), and are met with chiefly in the great toe of elderly bedridden patients. If an ulcer forms at the base of a horn it may prove the starting- point of epithelioma. On this and other grounds it is better to remove horns. New Growths in the Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue.— Fibroma.—Various types of fibroma are met with in the skin. Soft pedunculated fibromata, about the size of a pea, are very commonly met with, especially on the neck and trunk; they are usually solitary, and are of no clinical importance. The multiple soft fibromata, known as molluscum fihrosum, which depend upon a neuro-fibromatosis of the cutaneous nerves, are described with the tumours of nerves (p. 342). Hard fibromata occurring singly or in groups may be met with, especially in the skin of the buttock, and may present a local malignancy, recurring after removal like the “recurrent fibroid” of Paget. The “painful subcutaneous nodule ” is a solitary fibroma related to one of the cutaneous nerves. The hard fibroma known as keloid is described with the affections of scars (p. 375). Papilloma.—The common wart or verruca is an outgrowth of the surface epidermis. It may be se.ssile or pedunculated, hard or soft. The surface may be smooth, or fissured and foliated VOL. I—24