488 INJURIES OF ELBOW AND FOREARM. also be felt; there is a deirression below the external condyle where the head should be. The radial side of the forearm is slightly shortened. In a few cases the displacement of the head has been back- ward or outward. Treatment.—To effect reduction the forearm should be alter- nately flexed and extended, while traction is made upon it from the wrist, and the head of the radius is pressed backward with the thumb in the fold of the elbow. When reduction is jrre- vented by the interposition of a portion of the torn ligaments between the bones, it is sometimes necessary to open the joint to ensure accurate adjustment. The joint is fixed in acute flexion, to allow of union of the torn ligaments and to prevent re- currence. In old-standing cases, to obtain a useful joint, resection of the head of the radius may be necessary. Sub-luxation of the head of the radius, or “ dislocation by elongation,” is a comparatively common injury in children between the ages of two and six. It almost invariably results from the child being lifted or dragged by the hand or forearm. The traction and torsion thus put upon the radius causes the front part of its head to pass out of the orbicular ligament, the edge of which slips between the bones. The person holding the child may feel a click at the moment of displacement. The child complains of pain in the region of the elbow; the arm at once becomes useless, and is held flexed, midway between pronation and supination. All movements are painful, but especially movements in the direction of supination. The deformity is slight, but the head of the radius may be unduly prominent in front. From the way in which the injury is produced the wrist also is often swollen, and in some cases the patient is brought to the surgeon on account of the condition of the wrist, and attention is not directed to the elbow. Treatment.—Spontaneous reduction frequently takes place, the function of the arm being at once completely restored. In other cases it is necessary, under anaesthesia, to manipulate the head of the bone into position. This is usually easily done by flexing the elbow, making slight traction on the forearm, and alternately pronating and supinating it. After reduction a few days’ massage is all that is necessary, the joint in the intervals being kept at rest in a splint and sling. Sprain of the elbow is comparatively common as a result of a fall on the hand or a twist of the forearm. The point of