90 ULCERATION AND ULCERS. Methods of Grafting.—Several different procedures, whicli involve the transplantation of tangible portions of epithelium, are included under the term epithelium-grafting. Of these the methods of Reverdin and Thiersch are the most useful. In ReverdirCs method a portion of the patient’s skin is raised with the point of a needle, and a piece about the size of a split pea removed with a razor or a pair of scissors curved on the flat. The graft, which consists of the epidermis and the superficial layers of the rete mucosum, is then cut into fragments not bigger than a pin-head, and these are planted over the surface. As each of these fragments has only a potential growth of about half an inch in diameter, it is advisable to place them so that the edges of the adjacent epithelial islets which form will touch one another, and to plant them near the edge of the ulcer, in order that the grafted epithelium may blend with that of the margin and so consolidate the cicatrix. Unless this is done granulations grow up between the islets and often destroy them. The prepuce removed from a healthy child by circum- cision may be used for Reverdin grafting. The dressing consists of imbricated ijieces of oiled-silk pro- tective covered with pads of aseptic gauze and absorbent wool, the part being immobilised by a suitable splint. The dressing is changed in four or five days. Many of the grafts disappear temporarily, but reappear in the course of a few days as thin bluish-white patches which gradually increase in size and thick- ness. Great care is necessary to prevent the cicatrix from breaking down again. The application of lanoline or weak boracic ointment (a rpiarter the jrharmacopoeial strength) pre- vents the young epithelium from cracking, and keeps it soft and pliable. Thiersch]s Method.—For all practical purposes this is the procedure which yields the most satisfactory results and which is most generally applicable. It consists in transplanting strips of epidermis, shaved from the surface of the skin, the razor passing through the tips of the papillse. The grafts are most conveniently obtained from the inner aspect of the thigh or upper arm, or from the front of the forearm, the skin in these regions being soft, pliable, and comjmratively free from hairs. They are cut with a sharp hollow-ground razor, or Thiersch’s skin-grafting knife, the blade of which is moistened with warm saline solution. The skin is stretched and kept flat and per- fectly steady. To ensure uniform strips being cut the razor must be kept ijarallel with the surface, and used with a short, rapid sawing movement. With a little practice grafts