DISEASES OF BONE. 628 surround the bone (Figs. 240 and 242), and to invade its interior, filling up the marrow spaces with a white, bone-like substance; in the flat bones of the skull, they may traverse the diploe and erupt on the inner table. The tumour tissue next the bone consists of a dense, white, homogeneous material from which there radiate into the softer parts of the tumour, spicules, needles, and jjlates of a bone-like material. The peripheral portion consists of friable sarcomatous tissue, which invades the over- lying soft parts; the articular cartilage long resists destruction, and pathological fracture is exceptional. These ossifying sarcomata are met with most often in the femur and tibia, less frequently in the humerus, skull, pelvis, and jaws. In the long bones they may grow from the shaft, while the chondro-sarcomata more often originate at the extremities. Sometimes they are multiple, several tumours appear- ing simultaneously or one shortly after another. Secondary growths are met with chiefly in the lungs, metastasis taking place through the veins. Clinical Features. — Sarcomata are usually met with before the age of thirty, and are comparatively common in children. Males suSer oftener than females in the proportion of two to one. The symptoms consist in the appearance „ . . , of a tumour connected with a bone, and Sarcoma of Tibia in a steacldy increasing in size. In the case of woman let. 60. a periosteal sarcoma, the swelling may be on one aspect of the bone or may surround it, and when the tumour occurs at the end of a long bone the limb frequently assumes a characteristic “leg of mutton ” shape (Fig. 242). The surface may be uniform or bossed, the con- sistence varies at different parts, and the swelling gradually tapers off as it extends along the shaft. On firm pressure fine crejiitation may be felt from crushing of the delicate framework of new bone. A central sarcoma usually forms a more globular swelling, the limits of which are more clearly defined. The bone is more or less uniformly expanded and is at first densely hard, but in time there may be parchment-like or egg-shell crackling from