371 CANCEE. may occur on the nose. The sebaceous adenoma, wliich originates from the sebaceous glands, forms a projecting tumour on the face or scalp, and when the skin is irritated it may ulcerate and fungate (Fig. 48). The treatment consists in the removal of the tumour along with the overlying skin. The exuberant masses on the nose known as “lipoma nasi” or “ potato-nose ” are of the nature of sebaceous adenomata, and are removed by shaving them off Avith a knife until the normal shape of the nose is restored. Healing takes place with remarkable rapidity. Cancer.—There are several tyjjes of primary cancer of the skin, the most important being squamous epithelioma, rodent cancer, and melanotic cancer. Epithelioma occurs in a variety of forms. When originating in a small ulcer or wart—for example, in the skin of the face in old people—it presents the features of a chronic indurated ulcer. A more exuberant and rapidly growing form of epithelial cancer has been descrilted by Hutchinson as the erateriform ulcer. This commences on the face as a small red pimple which rapidly develops into an elevated mass shaped like a bee hive and breaks down in the centre. Epithelioma may develop anywhere on the body in relation to scar tissue, especially that resulting from burns or lupus. This form usually presents an exuberant outgrowth of epidermis not unlike a cauliHower wart. Mention should also be made of the paraffin-worker’s, chimney-sweep’s, and other forms of what may be called trade epithelioma, and of arsenic cancer occasionally observed in those who have taken large doses of arsenic for medicinal purposes over long periods. Rodent Cancer (Rodent Ulcer).—This is a true cancer originating in the sweat glands or sebaceous follicles, or in the foetal residues of cutaneous glands. The cells are small and closely packed together in alveoli or in reticulated columns. Cell nests are very rare. It is remarkably constant in its seat of origin, being nearly always located on the lateral aspect of the nose or in the vicinity of the lower eyelid (Figs. 82, 83). It is extremely rare on the trunk or limbs. It nearly always commences as a small flattened nodule in the skin, the epidermis over it being stretched and shining. The centre tends to become depressed, while the margin extends in the form of an elevated ridge. Sooner or later ulceration takes place in the centre, and the epidermis gives way, exposing a smooth raw surface devoid of granulations. The margin, while in parts irregular and ill-defined, is typically represented by a well-