314 THE LYMPHATICS. Diseases of Lymphatic Vessels. Lymphangitis.—Inflammation of peripheral lymphatic vessels usually results from the entrance of pyogenic bacteria or their products from some primary source of infection in the skin. This may be a septic wound or a purulent blister, and the streptococcus pyogenes is the organism most frequently present. Septic lymphangitis is commonly met with in those who, from the nature of their occupation, handle infective material. A gonococcal lymphangitis has been observed in those suffering from gonorrhoea. The inflammation affects chiefly the walls of the vessels and is attended with clotting of the lymph. There is also some degree of inflammation of the surrounding cellular tissue —peri-lymphangitis. One or more abscesses may form along the course of the affected vessels, or a spreading cellulitis may supervene. The clinical features resemble those of other acute pyogenic infections, and there are wavy red lines running from the source of infection towards the nearest lymphatic glands. These correspond to the inflamed vessels, and are the seat of burning pain and tenderness. The associated glands are enlarged and painful. In severe cases the symptoms may merge into those of septicaemia. When the deep lymphatics are involved, the superficial red lines are absent and the limb is oedematous. In cases of extensive lymphangitis, especially where there are repeated attacks, the vessels may be obliterated by the formation of new connective tissue and a persistent solid oedema result, culminating in one of the forms of elephantiasis. Treatment.—The primary source of infection is dealt with on the usual lines. The patient is confined to bed, and the affected limb is elevated on a pillow. The area in relation to the inflamed lymphatics is enveloped in a fomentation of weak car- bolic—1 in 60—or of lead and opium. If suppuration occurs, the pus must be let out. If the infection is due to the strepto- coccus pyogenes, and if the toxic symptoms are severe, the anti- streptococcic serum should be injected. When the inflammation has subsided, the limb is massaged and evenly bandaged to prevent oedema. Tuberculous Lymphangitis.—Although lymphatic vessels play such an important rble in the spread of tuberculosis, the clinical recognition of tuberculous disease of lymphatic vessels is ex- ceptional It is met with chiefly in relation to tuberculous lesions of the skin of the extremities, such as lupus, inoculation