196 TUMOURS. blood-vessels are dilated into sinuses and have no 23roper sheaths. They therefore tend to remain oj^en when divided and to bleed excessively. Transition forms between soft fibromata and sarco- mata are met with, so that in operating for their removal it is safer to take away the capsule along with the tumour. The skin—esj^ecially the skin of the buttock—is one of the favourite seats of fibromata, and they may occur in a multiple form. They are met with also in the subcutaneous and intermuscular cellular tissue, and in the abdominal wall, where they sometimes attain considerable dimensions. The fibrous overgrowths in the skin known as keloid and molluscum fibrosum, and those met with in the sheaths of nerves, are described elsewhere. Fibroid tumours of the uterus are described with myomata. Diffuse jihroma or Fibromatosis, analogous to lipomatosis, is met with in the connective tissue of the skin and sheaths of nerves, and constitutes one form of neuro-fibromatosis. Myxoma.—A myxoma is composed of tissue similar to that found in the umbilical cord. The tumour is characterised by its soft, gelatinous, semifluid consistence. The jjure myxoma is ex- tremely rare, and occurring, as it does, chiefly in the subcutaneous and intermuscular connective tissue, it resembles clinically the lipoma. Myxomatous tissue is, however, frequently found in other connective-tissue tumours as a result of myxomatous de- generation. This is specially observed in cartilaginous tumours and in sarcomata. Myxomatous tissue is usually a i:irominent constituent of the “innocent jjarotid tumour.” Mucous polypi of the nose, which are often described as myxomata, are merely l^endulous jjrocesses of oedematous mucous membrane. Myeloma.—A myeloma is a tumour composed of large multinuclear giant cells surrounded by round and S2>indle cells. The cut .surface of the tumour usually presents a deep red or maroon colour. While occasionally met with in tendon sheaths and burscB, the myeloma occurs most frequently in the cancellous tissue at the ends of the long bones (Fig. 238). Although formerly classified with the sarcomata, it is quite the excejjtion for a myeloma to present malignant features, and it can usually be extir[)ated by local measures without fear of recurrence. The method of removal varies with its situation and is considered elsewhere. Myoma. — A myoma is a tumour composed of non-striped muscle fibres. Pure myomata are very rare. They are met with in organs jmssessed of non-strq^ed muscle, such as the stomach, intestine, urinary bladder, and jjrostate; in the uterus, which is the most common situation for these tumours, as