226 INJURIES. Pellets striking the shafts of long bones may become flattened or distorted, and when cancellated bone is struck they remain embedded in it. When the charge impinges over one of the large cavities of the body the shot may scatter widely through the contained viscera, and there is often no exit wound. In the thorax, for example, if a rib is struck, the charge, and possibly fragments of bone, will penetrate the pleura, and be dispersed throughout the lung; in the head, the skull may be shattered and the bi’ain torn up ; and in the abdomen, the hollow viscera may be per- forated in many places and the solid organs lacerated. On covered parts, the clothing, by deflecting the shot, in- fluences the size and shape of the wound; the entrance wound is increased in size and more ragged, and portions of the clothes may be driven into it. By the discharge of small shot at a distance of from two to four feet from the muzzle, the central wound is slightly ragged; and beyond four feet, the jjellets begin to disperse so that there are separate punctures round the central opening. As the distance increases these outlying punctures make a wider and wider pattern, till at ten feet they cover an area of about five inches. The central opening is at its largest about six or seven feet from the muzzle; beyond this it gradually gets smaller, till at ten or fifteen feet it is scarcely recognisable, and at twenty feet it has completely disappeared, each individual pellet making its own puncture. When the shot have diverged so as to strike singly they seldom do much harm, but when a large number of pellets lodge close to one another the skin is very apt to slough. Fatal damage may be done to the brain or to the aorta, or the eye may be seriously injured by a single pellet. Small shot fired at longer ranges—up to about a hundred and fifty feet—usually go through the skin, but seldom pierce the fascia, and lie embedded in the subcutaneous tissue, from which they can readily be extracted. The wad of the cartridge behaves very erratically : so long as it remains flat it goes off with the rest of the charge, and is often buried in the wound; but if it curls up or turns on its side it is usually deflected and flies clear of the shot. It may make a separate wound. A charge of small shot is much more destructive to blood- vessels, tendons, and ligaments than a single bullet, which in many cases pu.shes such structures aside vdthout actually divid- ing them. In the abdomen and chest, also, the damage done by