574 INJURIES IN REGION OF ANKLE AND FOOT. sloughing later. Although as a rule there is little difficulty in effecting reduction by manipulation, these injuries are liable to be followed by stiffness and imjiaired usefulness of the joint. The backward dislocation is the most common, and results from extreme plantar flexion of the foot, wedging the astragalus between the tibia and fibula, as from a fall backwards while the foot is fixed. The lateral ligaments are torn, and one or both malleoli may be broken, or the posterior part of the articular edge of the tibia chipped off. The foot appears shortened, the heel is unduly prominent behind, and the lower ends of the tibia and fibula project in front, sometimes coming through the skin. The tendons around the joint are stretched or torn. Fortvard dislocation results from extreme dorsal flexion at the ankle- joint. The foot appears lengthened, the heel is less prominent than normal, and the hollows on each side of the tendo Achillis are obliterated. The astragalus is felt in front of the tibia, and the malleoli appear to be displaced backwards and towards the sole. Lateral dislocations—inward or outward—are only possible after fracture of one or both malleoli, and may be looked upon as com- plications of these injuries (Fig. 215). In cases where the interosseous ligament is ruptured, and in ag- gravated cases of Dupuytren’s frac- ture, the astragalus may pass upvxirds between the bones of the leg. There is great broadening in the region of the ankle, and the malleoli are unduly prominent under the skin, which is tightly stretched over them. They are also nearer to the sole than normal. The movements of the ankle-joint are lost. Dislocation of the inferior tibio-fhidar joint is exceedingly rare, except in association with fractures of the lower ends of the bones of the leg, particularly Dupuytren’s fracture, or with dislocation of the anlcle-joint proper. Fig. 215.—Ankylosis of Ankle after Compound Fracture with Lateral Dislocation of Ankle, and Pointing of the Toes. (Specimen in Professor Annandale’.s collection.)