GENERAL TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOSIS. 147 to be distasteful or to disagree, one or other of the emulsified forms may be substituted. The general health may be benefited by the administration of tonics—such, for example, as the syrup of the iodide of iron. AVhile in many instances we trust to the vis medicatrix naturce aided by measures calculated to imj)rove the general health, in other.s, steps are taken which are intended to increase the vitality of the tissues and to help them to gain the upper hand in their conflict with the bacilli. The chief of these are the use of iodoform, the artificial 23roduction of venous congestion, and the apjilication of various rays. Iodoform, which was first employed in tuberculous lesions by Mosetig Moorhof, of Vienna, a2)2jears to act by irritating the tissues and stimulating the formation of granulation tissue, whereby the focus of tuberculous infection is either destroyed or encapsulated. Iodoform is em2)loyed in various ways : gauze or worsted imj^regnated with the ^mwder is used to jiack tuberculous cavities and sinuses ; dissolved in ether or susi^ended in glycerin, it is injected into the tissues or into a closed cavity such as a joint or an abscess. Experience has shown that it acts more efficiently ujion the tuberculous infection in a cavity shut off from the air ; this may be due to the liberation of iodine as already indicated (j). .3.3). Durante, of Rome, has obtained good results by injecting iodine, dissolved in a solution of iodide of 23otassium, and Lannelongue, of Paris, injects a five j)er cent, solution of chloride of zinc into the tissues surrounding the tuberculous focus. The artificial jiroduction of venous congestion was introduced by Bier, of Bonn, in imitation of the resistance offered to tuberculous infection by the lungs when they are the seat of chronic venous congestion. It would aji^Jea-r that intermittent venous congestion stimulates the formation of granulation and cicatricial tissue. In the case f)f a limb, the segment below the lesion is supported by a firmly apiilied bandage, while above the lesion a few turns of an elastic bandage are ai)2jlied so as to compress the veins and bring about a cyanosed condition of the tissues that are the seat of tubercle. The congestion is main- tained for from three to eight hours daily over a }ieriod of at least three months. The method has been chiefly used in tuberculous disease in joints, in tendon sheaths, [and in the testicle. Treatment by Rays.—On the basis that sunlight is inimical to the growth of certain forms of bacterial life, Finsen, of Copenhagen, introduced the treatment of tuberculous disease of