SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF BONE. 607 being complicated with septic infection leads to caries and necrosis. In the nose the disease is attended with stinking discharge (ozoena), the extrusion of portions of dead bone, and subsequently with deformity characterised by loss of the bridge of the nose; in the palate, it is common to have a perforation through which the air escapes into the nose in speaking. Syphilitic disease of the tibia may be taken as the type of the affection as it occurs in the long hones. Gummatous disease in the periosteum may result in the forma- tion of a well-defined node, or the whole .shaft may become the seat of an irregular nodular enlargement (Fig. 230) . If the bone is macerated it is found to be heavier and bulkier than normal; there is diffuse sclerosis which may cause obliteration of the medullary canal, and the siu’- face is uneven from heaping up of new bone by the peri- osteum — hyperostosis (Fig. 231) . If a periosteal gumma after breaking down spreads towards and invades the skin, a syphilitic ulcer with carious bone at the bottom results (Fig. 232). A central gumma may eat away the surround- ing bone so that it readily undergoes pathological frac- ture. In the rare cases in „ <i * rr i,- ... , , n Fig. 232.—Gummatous Disease ot Tibiie which it attacks the aiticular suhject of ends of the long bones, gum- inherited syphilis. There is a small niatous disease may implicate gummatous ulcer just above left wri.st, the adjacent joint and give and an unbroken gumma in region oi’ rise to syphilitic arthritis. Clinical Features.—The pains in the bones are much more intense than during the secondary period, and are described as boring—as if a gimlet were being driven into the bone. They are worst at night, sometimes preventing sleep, and have been ascribed to the compression of the nerves as they pass through the narrowed Haversian canals. The periosteal gumma appears as a smooth circumscribed swelling which is soft and elastic in the centre and firm at the