SUPPUEATION. 52 focus of suppuration elsewhere in the body, or from a lesion of the skin or mucous membrane. Formation of an Abscess. — When virulent pyogenic bacteria settle in a part there ensues an inflammatory reaction, irroducing congestion and stasis in the blood-vessels, migration of leucocytes, and exudation of plasma into the surrounding tissues. The toxins formed by the bacteria induce degenera- tive changes in the endothelial cells of the vessel walls, in the connective-tissue corpuscles, and in the wandering leucocytes. Towards the centre of the inflamed area, where this action is most concentrated, coagulation necrosis takes place, and in the dead material thus produced the bacteria grow and multijrly. By means of a digestive ferment secreted by the organisms, and probably also by phagocytic action, the necrosed tissue becomes liquefied, and a focus of pus is formed, constituting an abscess. Around this is a zone of coagulated or necrotic tissue ready to break down as the process extends; and thisdn turn is surrounded by a ring of leucocyte infiltration which acts as an obstacle to the further spread of the bacteria. The pus thus formed is, owing to the swelling and condensa- tion of the parts around, under considerable pressure, which causes it to spread along the lines of least resistance. In the case of a subcutaneous abscess the pus usually spreads directly to the surface, and “points,” as it is called. Where the abscess points, the skin becomes soft and thin, and sloirghs form at one or more spots, giving exit to the pus. An abscess forming in the deeper planes is prevented from pointing directly to the surface by the firm fasciae and other fibrous structures. The pus therefore tends to burrow along the line of the blood-vessels and in the connective-tLs.sue septa, till it either finds a weak spot or causes a portion of fascia to slough and so reaches the surface. Accordingly many abscess cavities resulting from deep-seated suppuration are of irregular shape, with pouches and loculi in various directions—an arrangement which interferes with their successful treatment by incision and drainage. The relief of tension which follows the bursting of an abscess, the removal of irritation by the escape of pus, and the throwing out of bacteria and toxins, allow the tissues once more to assert themselves. Granulation tissue forms round the abscess cavity, gradually increases in amount, and becomes organised into con- nective tissue, which eventually fills the gap resulting from the destruction of the original tissues ; epithelium covers the granulating surface and the scar is thus completed. As a result