ANTHRAX. 129 confine ourselves to the consideration of the local lesion as it occurs in the skin—the malignant pustule (Fig. 30). The point of infection of malignant pustule is usually on an uncovered part of the body, such as the face, hands, arms, or back of the neck, and the wound of infection may be exceed- ingly minute. After an incubation period varying from a few hours to three or four days, a small red nodule, surrounded by a reddish-blue bleb containing clear or blood-stained fluid, appears at the seat of inoculation. This is accompanied by a slight buniing pain and intense itchiness. The bleb soon bursts and forms a black, dried scab, around which one or more rings of small vesicles form. Outside this the skin becomes indurated and swollen, and a widespread oedema occurs. When the seat of inoculation is in the vicinity of the neck, this oedema may implicate the larynx and lead to dangerous interference with respiration. The neighbouring lymphatic glands soon become enlarged and tender. The risk to the life of the patient in malignant pustule is that of the disease becoming generalised—anthracoimia. When this occurs it shows itself in the course of forty-eight to sixty hours in the form of fever, with a temperature of 102° to 104° F., severe pains in the limbs, diarrhoea, liEematuria, and great weakness. The patient is usually remarkably free from anxiety and distress, even when dangerously ill, and dies in the course of from five to eight days with symptoms of collapse. Morbid Anatomy of Malignant Pustule.—The central slough is composed of necrosed tissue and altered blood. The surrounding skin is intensely congested and oedematous, and the stratum corneum is raised as a blister from the rete Malpighii. The bacilli are found in the peripheral portion of the slough, in the vesicles, and in the adjacent lymphatics. Differential Diagnosis.—The clinical features which have been described above serve to distinguish malignant pustule from an ordinary boil or carbuncle, and from the other acute infective conditions with which it is liable to be confused. In doubtful cases a bacteriological examination should be made. Inquiry should also be made as to the possibility of the patient having been in contact with infected material either in the ordinary course of his occupation or in any other way. Prognosis.—If left to itself the disease is frequently fatal. The mortality is greatest when the disease attacks the face or neck, and least when the inferior extremity is affected. Prophylaxis.—Any wound suspected of being infected by the