INJUEIES OF WRIST AND HAND. 496 edge of the upper fragment piercing the lower fragment, and the palmar edge of the lower fragment piercing the upper. The mechanism producing comminution of the lower fragment is practically constant, the upper fragment being forced as a wedge into the lower, taking effect first and chiefly on the side of the fragment next the ulna (E. H. Bennett). The periosteum is usually torn and stripped from the palmar aspect of the frag- ments, while it remains intact on the dorsum. In the majority of cases the styloid process of the ulna is torn off by traction exerted through the internal lateral ligament. The resulting displacement is of a threefold character: (1) the lower frag- ment is displaced backwards; (2) its carpal surface is rotated backwards on a transverse diameter of the forearm; while (3) the whole fragment is rotated upward through the arc of a circle, the centre of which is situated at the ulnar attachment of the triangular ligament, the radius of the circle being a line from the ulnar attachment of the triangular ligament to the tij) of the styloid process of the radius : stated more simply, the radial styloid is tilted so that it comes to lie at a higher level than normal (Chiene). Clinical Features.—In a typical case' there is a marked prominence on the back of the wrist, caused by the dis- placed lower fragment, ■with a depression just above it (Fig. 147); and the wrist is broadened from side to side. The natural hollow on the palmar aspect of the radius is filled up by the projection of the upper fragment. The carpus is carried to the radial side by the upward rotation of the lower fragment (Fig. 149), and the radial styloid is raised so that it lies as high, or even higher, than that of the ulna. The lower end of the ulna is rendered unduly prominent By the flexion of the hand to the radial side. The Angers are partially flexed and slightly deviated towards the ulnar side; and the patient supports the injured wrist in the palm of the opposite hand, and avoids movement of the part. The general outline of the wrist and hand has been compared not inaptly to that of “an inverted spoon.” Pronation and Fig. 149.—Colies’ Fracture. From same patient as Fig. 147. Shows radial de- viation of corpus ; slight ulnar deviation of Angers ; and undue prominence of ulnar styloid.