257 H^MOKRHAGE. action, such as may result from exertion, excitement, or over- stimulation, also interferes with the natural arrest of luemorrhage. Lastly, in luemophilia the deficient coagulability of the blood seriously interferes with the natural arrest of bleeding, even in small vessels. (c) Ligation of a Vessel in its Continuity.—When a ligature is applied to an artery it should be pulled sufficiently tight to occlude the lumen without causing rupture of any of its coats. It often happens, however, that the compression causes rupture of the inner and middle coats, so that only the adventitia remains in the grasp of the ligature. While this weakens the wall of the vessel, it has the advantage of hastening coagula- tion, by briTiging the blood into contact with damaged ti.ssue. Whether the inner and middle coats are ruptured or not, blood coagulates both above and below the ligature, the jiroximal clot being longer and broader than that on the distal side. In small arteries these clots extend as far as the nearest collateral branch, but in the larger trmiks their length is variable. The permanent occlusion of those portions of the vessel occupied by clot is brought about by the formation of granulation tissue, and its replacement by cicatricial tissue, so that the occluded segment of the vessel is represented merely by a fibrous cord. In this process the coagulum only plays a passive role by forming a scafiblding on which the granulations are built up. The ligature which surrounds the vessel, and the elements of the clot, are ultimately absorbed. id) In a vessel ligatured at its cut end—as, for example, in an amputation stump—the reparative process is the same as when it is ligatured in its continuity. The ligature usually tears the internal and middle coats, and so pulls the adven- titial coat together. The ligature and the small portion of ve.ssel beyond it are subsequently absorbed. H.emorehage. Various terms are employed in relation to hisemorrhage according to its seat, its origin, the time at which it occurs, and other circumstances. The term external hcemorrhage is employed when the blood escapes directly to the surface ; when the bleeding takes place into the tissues or into a cavity it is spoken of as internal. The blood may infiltrate the connective tissue of the skin or of deeper parts, constituting an extravasation of blood; or it may collect in a definite space or cavity and form a hasmatoma. VOL. I—17