14 CONDITIONS INTERFERING WITH REPAIR. and respiratory derangements, interference with the gastro-intes- tinal functions and also with those of the nervous system— which go to make up the condition known as blood-poisoning, toxaemia, or bacterial intoxication. In addition to this, certain bacteria produce toxins which give rise to definite and distinct groups of symptoms—such as the convulsions of tetanus, or the paralyses which follow diphtheria. Local lesions also, of an inflammatory, su^jpurative, or ulcerative character, result from the action of certain organisms and their products, as in tuberculosis, typhoid, anthrax, and diphtheria. Death of Bacteria. — Under certain circumstances it would appear that the accumulation of the toxic products of bacterial action tends to interfere with the continued life and growth of the organisms themselves, and in this way the natural cure of certain diseases is brought about. Outside the body bacteria may be killed by starvation, by want of moisture, by being sub- jected to high temperature, and by the action of certain chemical agents, of which carbolic acid and the perchloride and biniodide of mercury are the most powerful. Immunity.—It has long been known that some persons are insusceptible to infection by certain diseases, from which they are said to enjoy a natural immunity. It is also well estab- lished in the case of many acute diseases—it is probably true of all—that one attack protects the patient, for a time at least, from a second attack. This is known as an acquired immunity. Within recent years numerous attempts have been made to arrive at an understanding of the processes by which immunity is acquired, and as a result of many brilliant researches, notably those of Metchnikoff and of Ehrlich, much light has been thrown on this difficult problem. According to Metchnikoff the chief role in the production of immunity is played by the leucocytes, which, as Leber has shown, exhibit a peculiar biological or chemical attraction towards bacteria, wLich is termed chemotaxis. Under the influence of this chemotactic attraction, and in virtue of their amoeboid movement, the leucocytes approach the bacteria, and after ingesting them, destroy them by a jjrocess akin to digestion. To this process Metchnikoff applied the name phago- cytosis, and he showed that the most active agents engaged in it are the polynuclear leucocytes, which he terms microphages. The large lymphocytes of the blood—the macrophages—show less bactericidal tendencies and are engaged chiefly in destroying other tissue cells, such as red blood corpuscles and connective- tissue cells.