DIPHTHERIA. 117 of leucocytes. The false inenibrane may become separated and cast off, after Avliich the patient gradually recovers. Death may take place from asthenia or from sudden syncope during some slight exertion. The disease may arise in the larynx, although, as a rule, it spreads thence from the pharynx. It first manifests itself by a short, dry, croupy cough, and hoarseness of the voice. The difficulty in breathing usually first takes place suddenly during the night, and once it begins, it rapidly gets worse. Inspiration becomes noisy, sometimes stridulous or metallic or sibilant, and there is marked indrawing of the epigastrium and lower ribs. The voice becomes more rough, the cough more severe, and the patient very restless. The difficulty of breathing occurs in paroxysms, which gradually increase in frequency and severity until at length the exhausted patient becomes asphyxiated and dies. The duration of the disease varies from a few hours to four or five days. Diagnosis.—Dii)htheria has to be diagnosed from suppurative tonsillitis and from croup. In true diphtheria, when the false membrane is removed, a raw bleeding surface is left. ' So much doubt exists as to the real nature of membranous croup and its relationship to true diphtheria, that when the diagnosis between the two is uncertain, the safest plan is to treat the case as one of diphtheria. The finding of the Klebs-L(iffler bacillus is the only conclusive evidence of the disease. The bacillus may be obtained by swabbing the throat with a piece of aseptic —not antiseptic—cotton wool or clean linen rag held in a pair of forceps, and rotated so as to entangle portions of the false membrane or exudate. The swab thus obtained is placed in a test-tube previously sterilised by having had some water boiled in it. When a bacteriological examination is impossible, or when the clinical features do not coincide with the results obtained, the patient should always be treated on the assump- tion that he suffers from diphtheria. Treatment.—An attempt may be made to destroy or to counteract the organisms by swabbing the throat with strong antiseptic solutions, such as 1 in 1000 corrosive sublimate or 1 in 30 carbolic acid, or by spraying with peroxide of hydrogen. The antitoxic serum is our sheet-anchor in the treatment of diphtheria,, and recourse should be had to its use as early as possible. So great has been the lowering of the mortality by its use that a serious responsibility rests upon the [iractitioner who fails to give his patient the benefit of this method of treatment.