464 INJURIES OF SHOULDER AND UPPER ARM. Between the fourteenth and twenty-second years the epi- physis may be separated, but it is seldom possible to make a positive diagnosis of this injury. As is the case in all fractures of the acromion, bony union seldom takes place. The treatment is the same as for fracture of the outer end of the clavicle. Fracture of the coracoid process is exceedingly rare. It may result from direct violence, such as the recoil of a gun, but is more often an accompaniment of dislocation of the shoulder or of the outer end of the clavicle upward. As the coraco-clavicular ligaments usually remain intact, there is no displacement; but when these are torn the coracoid is dragged downwards and outwards by the combined action of the pectoralis minor, biceps, and coraco-brachialis muscles. Crepitus may be elicited on moving the fragment. Separation of the epiphysial portion of the coracoid may occur up to the seventeenth year of life. The treatment consists in placing the arm across the front of the chest, to relax the muscles causing the displacement, and retaining it in that position by a sling and roller bandage. Eractuees of the Upper End of the Humerus. - It is most convenient to study fractures of the upper end of the humerus in the following order : (1) fracture of the surgical neck; (2) separation of the epiphysis; (3) fracture ;of head, anatomical neck, or tuberosities. Fracture of the Surgical Neck.—The surgical neck of the humerus extends from the level of the epiphysial junction to the insertion of the pectoralis major and teres major muscles, and it is within these limits that most fractures of the upper end of the bone occur. They are most common in adults, and usually follow direct violence applied to the shoulder, but may result from falls on the hand or elbow, or from violent muscular action, as, for example, in throwing a stone. The fracture is usually transverse, and there is often little or no displacement, the fragments being retained in position by the long tendon of the bicej)S and the long head of the triceps. When the fracture is oblique, the fragments are often com- minuted, and sometimes impacted. The displacement of the upper fragment seems to depend upon the attitude of the limb at the moment of fracture. When the upper arm is approxi- mated to the side, the upper fragment retains its vertical position, but is slightly rotated outwards by the muscles inserted into the greater tuberosity, while the lower fragment is drawn upwards f I