514 INJURIES OF PELVIS, HIP-JOINT, AND THIGH. subjects, by bui’sting asunder the epiphysial junction of the constituent bones. When the femoral head penetrates into the pelvis, the condition simulates a fracture of the neck of the femur, but the trochanteric region is more depressed, and the displaced head may be recognised on rectal or vaginal examina- tion. The limb is shortened, the movements of the joint much restricted and painful, but crepitus is not always to be detected. When the head of the femur penetrates the acetabulum, re- duction should be attempted by traction and manipulation. After reduction the limb is fixed in a long splint with extension as for fracture of the neck of the femur (Fig. 174). Reduction is often very difficult, and sometimes impossible. In addition to the fracture of the floor of the acetabulum, it is necessary to mention a fracture of the upper and back part of the rim of this cavity which may accompany dorsal disloca- tion of the hip. Its clinical importance lies in the fact that crepitus may be present in addition to the symptoms of disloca- tion, and that after reduction the displacement is easily re- produced. This injury is liable to be mistaken for a fracture of the neck of the femur, but the flexion and internal rotation of the hip should prevent error. The treatment is the same as for fracture of the neck of the femur. Fractures of Individual Bones of the Pelvis.—Ilium.—The expanded portion of the iliac bone is often broken by direct violence, the detached fragments varying greatly in size and position. The whole or part of the crest may be separated by similar forms of violence. When the fracture implicates the ala of the bone, it usually starts at the triangular prominence near the middle of the crest, and runs backwards or forwards, passing for a variable distance into the iliac fossa. The displaced fragment may sometimes be palpated and made to move when the muscles attached to it are relaxed. This is done by bending the body forward and towards the affected side and flexing the thighs. Pain and crepitus may be elicited on making this examination. These fractures are treated by applying broad strips of ad- hesive plaster over the seat of fracture, and by placing the patient in such a position as will relax the muscles attached to the displaced fragment—in the case of the iliac spines by flexing the thigh upon the pelvis, and in the case of the crest or ala by raising the shoulders. Union takes place in three or four weeks. In young persons the anterior superior spine has been torn