ULCEEATION AND ULCEES. 86 Tuberculous and syphilitic patients also must receive the appropriate medicinal and dietetic treatment for their general conditions. The tuberculous ulcer calls for special local treatment. By means of knife, scissors, or sharp spoon, all foci of tuberculous disease, whether in the skin or in the deeper parts, must be freely removed, so as to leave a healthy surface from which granulations may spring up. Should the raw surface left be extensive and likely to result in an unsightly scar, much benefit may result from skin-grafting. In some cases the area involved is so extensive that the surgeon may hesitate to excise it bodily. The alternative is to clip or scrape away all grossly diseased tissue and granula- tions, to slit up all sinuses, and then to purify everything with undiluted carbolic acid. Iodoform is held in high esteem as an agent which counteracts the tubercle bacillus and its products. In many cases marked benefit has followed the application of the X-rays. The healing of such sores is often slow and tedious, and experience shows that frequent changes in the dressings employed are often beneficial. The Syphilitic Ulcer.-—No ulcerative process responds so readily to medicinal treatment as the syphilitic ulcer does to full doses of iodide of potassium and mercury, and the local application of black wash. When the ulceration has lasted for a long time, however, and is widespread and deep, the duration of treatment is materially shortened by a thorough scrajjing with the sharp spoon. Treatment in relation to the Condition of the Ulcer.— Ulcers in a Weak Condition. — If the weak condition of the ulcer is due to anaemia or kidney disease, these afi’ections must first be treated. Locally, the imperfect granulations should be scraped away, and some stimulating agent, such as red lotion (2 grains of sulphate of zinc, and 10 minims of compound tincture of lavender, to an ounce of water), applied to the raw surface till healthy granulations form. When the condition has resulted from the prolonged use of moist dressings, these must be stopped, the redundant granula- tions clipped away with scissors, the surface rubbed with silver nitrate or sulphate of copper (blue-stone), and dry dressings applied. When the ulcer has assumed the characters of a healing sore, Thiersch grafts may be applied to hasten cicatrisation. Ulcers in a callous condition call for treatment in three