DIFFUSE CELLULITIS AND SUPPURATION. 57 and is small, feeble, and often irregular. The face is hushed, the tongue dry and brown, and the jjatient may become delirious, especially during the night. Leucocytosis is present in cases of moderate severity; in very mild cases the reaction may be insufficient to cause leucocytosis; while in very severe cases the virulence of the toxins prevents reaction taking place, and leucocytosis is absent. The local manifestations vary with the relation of the seat of the inhammation to the surface. When the superhcial cellular tissue is involved, the skin assumes a dark bluish-red colour, is swollen, oedeniatous, and the seat of burning pain. To the touch it is hrm, hot, and tender. When the primary focus is in the deeper tissues, the general constitutional disturbance is aggravated, while the local signs are delayed, and only become prominent when pus forms and approaches the surface. It is not uncommon for blebs containing dark serous fluid to form on the skin. The inflammation frequently s]jreads along the line of the main lymphatic vessels of the part {septic lymphangitis), and may reach the lymphatic glands {septic lymphadenitis). With the formation of pus the skin becomes soft and boggy at several points, and eventually breaks, giving exit to a quantity of thick, grunious discharge. Sometimes several small collections under the skin fuse, and a distinct abscess is formed, in which fluctuation can be detected. Occasionally gases are evolved in the tissues, giving rise to emphysema. It is very common for ‘ portions of fascia, ligaments, or tendons to slough, and this may often be recognised clinically by a peculiar crunching or grating sensation transmitted to the finger on making firm pressure on the part. If it is not let out by incision, the pus, travelling along the lines of least resistance, tends to point at several places on the surface, or to oj^en into joints or other cavities. Prognosis.—The occurrence of septicaemia is the most serious risk, and it is in cases of diffuse suppurative cellulitis that this form of blood-poisoning assumes its most aggi-avated forms. The toxins of the streptococci are exceedingly virulent, and induce local death of tissue so rapidly that the protective emigration of leucocytes fails to take place. In some cases the passage of masses of free cocci in the lymphatics, or of septic emboli in the blood-vessels, leads to the formation of pyaemic abscesses in vital organs, such as the brain, lungs, liver, kidneys, or other viscera. Haemorrhage from suppurative perforation of arterial or venous trunks may take place and prove dangerous to life.