ARTEEITTS. 271 Wlien the inflamiiiation stops short of suppuration, the softening of the vessel wall may lead to aneurysmal dilatation This occurs in embolic arteritis, and is frequently associated with disease of the valves of the heart. It is not uncommon in children, and explains many of the cases of aneurysm met with in young subjects. Sj/philitic Arterltu.—^The inflammation of arteries associated with syphilis results in marked thickening of the tunica intima, whereby the lumen of the vessel becomes narrowed, or even obliterated—endarteritis ohliterans. The middle coat usually e.scapes, but the tunica adventitia is generally thickened. These changes are best seen in the smaller vessels of the brain and of the abdominal viscera, and they cause serious interference with the nutrition of the parts supplied by the affected arteries. In large trunks, by diminishing the elasticity of the vessel wall, they are liable to lead to the formation of an aneurysm. Changes in the arterial walls closely resembling those of syphilitic arteritis are sometimes met with in tuhevadors lesions. Atheroma.—This name is applied to certain changes which occur in the deeper layers of the tunica intima whereby an increa.sed develoimient of young connective tissue takes place. In course of time this new tissue undei’goes degeneration—at first usually of a fatty nature, but progressing in the direction of calcification. When this degeneration ensues, lime salts are deposited in the young connective tissue, and calcareous plates or rings form, sometimes over a considerable area of the vessel wall. The endothelium over these plates often disappears, leaving them exposed to the blood-stream, whereby they favour the occurrence of thrombosis. Changes of a similar kind sometimes occur in the middle coat, the lime salts being deposited among the muscle fibres in concentric rings. The primary cause of atheroma is not definitely known, but its almost constant occurrence in the aged, to a greater or less degree, suggests that it is of the nature of a senile degeneration. It is favoured by anything which throws excessive strain on the vessel walls, such as heavy muscular work; by chronic alcoholism and syi»hilis; or by such general diseases as tend to raise the blood pressure—for example, chronic Bright’s disease or gout. It occurs with greater frequency and with greater severity in men than in women. The large arterial trunks are chiefly affected, and the changes are most marked at the arch of the