ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. 163 without holding out any certain hope of preventing constitu- tional infection. So long as’the diagnosis is uncertain, treatment should be restricted to keeping the suspected sore absolutely clean, and to protecting it from irritation. When the diagnosis of syphilis is established, we agree with those who, regarding mercury as the best-known antidote to the virus of syphilis, aim at bringing the patient under the influence of the drug before the disease has become generalised. The methods of administering it will be described with the treatment of secondary syphilis. The local treatment chiefly consists in the maintenance of cleanliness. The part is washed night and morning, preferably with peroxide of hydrogen; if the surface is unbroken, it may be dusted lightly with a powder composed of ecpial parts of calomel and carbonate of zinc. If there is an ulcer, the tradi- tional and efficient application is a piece of lint or gauze soaked in black wash, renewed night and morning, oi' oftener if there is much discharge, and kept in place either by drawing the prepuce over it or by a few turns of narrow bandage or plaster. The penis should be supported against the abdominal wall by a triangular handkerchief or bathing-drawers, and if there is inflammatory oedema the patient should be confined to bed. In concealed chancres with phimosis the sac of the prepuce should be frequently washed out, by means of a syringe, with sublimate lotion (1-2000) or jreroxide of hydrogen, and the sac packed with a strip of lint soaked in black wash so as to separate the prepuce from the glans. If this does not eliminate the septic element it is better to circumcise the patient and thus obtain free access to the lesion. If phagedajiia occurs, the prepuce must be slit open along the dorsum, or if sloughing, cut away, and the patient must sit frequently in a hot bath of weak sublimate lotion. When the chancre is within the meatus, iodoform bougies are inserted into the urethra, and the urine should be rendered bland by drinking large quantities of fluid. Secondary Syphilis.—The following description of secondary syphilis is based on the average course of the disease in patients who are not treated with mercury. The onset of constitutional symptoms occurs from six to twelve weeks after the original infection, and the manifestations are the result of the entrance of the virus into the general circulation, and its being carried to all parts of the body. The period during which the patient is liable to suffer from secondary symptoms varies, but is generally from six months to two years.