LOOSE BODIES. 675 little inconvenience and may be left alone. If interfered with at all they should be excised. Loose Bodies. While there is probably no more controversial subject in surgical pathology than the origin and nature of loose bodies in joints, their clinical aspects and treatment are clear and straight- forward. It is convenient to group them anatomically into two classes : those composed of fibrin, and those composed of organ- ised connective tissue. Fibrinous Loose Bodies (corpora oryzoidea).—These are homogeneous or concentrically laminated masses of fibrin, some- times resembling rice grains, melon seeds, or adhesive wafers, sometimes quite irregular in shape (Fig. 254). Usually they are present in large numbers, but sometimes they are solitary and may then attain considerable dimensions. They are not peculiar to joints, for they are met with in tendon sheaths and bursse, and their origin from synovial membrane may be accepted as proved. They occur in tuberculosis, arthritis deformans, and in Charcot’s disease, and their presence is almost invari- ably associated with an effusion of fluid into the joint. While they may result from the coagulation of fibrin-forming elements in the exudate, their occurrence in tuberculous hydrops would appear to be the result of coagulation necrosis, or of fibrinous degeneration of the surface layer of the diseased synovial membrane. However formed, their shape is the result of mechauical influences, and especially of the move- ment of the joint. Clinically, loose bodies composed of fibrin constitute an un- important addition to the features of the disease with which they are associated. They never give rise to the classical symptoms associated with impaction of a loose body between the articular ends of the bones. Their presence may be recognised, especially in the knee, by the crepitating sensation imparted to the Angers when the bodies are moved to and fro in the fluid. The treatment is directed towards the disease underlying the hydrops. If it is desired to empty the joint, this is best done by means of an incision. Fig. 254.—Melon-seed Bodies from Tuberculous Knee-joint.