251 INJUKIES OF ARTERIES. Tlie pulsation seldom returns within five or six weeks of the injury, if indeed it is not permanently arrested. As a rule, however, a good collateral circulation is rapidly established, the vascularity soon being restored. If the pulsation returns within a week of the injury the luesumption is that the occlusion was due to pressure from without—for example, by hajinorrhage into the sheath, or the pressure of a fragment of bone. When an artery has been occluded as a result of contusion and thrombosis, the limb must be placed in the most favourable condition for the restoration of the circulation. The skin is disinfected and the limb wrapped in cotton wool to conserve its heat, and elevated to such an extent as to promote the venous return without at the same time unduly interfering Avith the inflow of blood. A careful watch must be kept on the state of nutrition of the limb lest gangrene supervene, as this necessitates amputation at or above the level of the obstructed artery. Complete Rupture.—When the rupture is complete, all the coats of the vessel are torn and the blood escapes into the surrounding tissues. If the original injury is attended Avith much shock, the bleeding may not take place until the period of reaction. Those cases in which the popliteal artery is ruptured in association Avith fracture of the femur, or the axillary or brachial artery with fracture of the humerus or dis- location of the shoulder, furnish the best examples of complete rupture. Like incomplete rupture, this lesion is accompanied by loss of pulsation and power, and by coldness of the limb beyond ; a tense and excessively painful swelling rapidly appears in the region of the injury, and, where the cellular tissue is loose, may attain a considerable size. The pressure of the effused blood occludes the veins and leads to marked congestion and oedema of the limb beyond. The interference with the circula- tion, and the damage to the tissues of the limb, may be so great that gangrene ensues. If no complications supervene the swelling subsides, and recovery may be complete in six or eight weeks. Even in cases of complete rupture expectant treatment has in many cases yielded satisfactory results. If the extravasation is great and the skin threatens to give way, or if the vitality of the limb is seriously endangered, it is advisable to expose the injured vessel, and, after clearing aAA'ay the clots, to apply a ligature above and beloAv the rupture. If gangrene ensues, amputation must be performed.