INJUEIES OF WEIST AND HAND. 498 and carried on till movement is perfect. If splints are used they should be discarded in a week or ten days, and the patient is then encouraged to use the wrist freely. The various special splints recommended for the treatment of Colies’ fracture, such as Carr’s, Gordon’s, the “ pistol splint,” and many others, are all designed to correct the deformity as well as to control the fragments. It has already been pointed out that if reduction is complete there is no deformity to correct, and if it is not complete the deformity cannot be corrected by any form of splint. Unreduced Colled Fracture.—When union has been allowed to take place without the displacement having been reduced, an unsightly deformity results. In young subjects whose occupa- tion is likely to be interfered with, and in women for sesthetic reasons, the bone may be divided with an osteotome, and set in Fig. 151.—Smith’s Fracture of Radius, united in deformed attitude. (Museum of Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.) the normal position. As a rule, however, the usefulness of the limb is not interfered with, and operative measures are rarely called for. A fracture of the lower end of the radius with forward displacement of the carpal fragment, was first described by E. W. Smith of Dublin (Fig. 151) {Colles’ fracture reversed or Smith’s fracture). It is nearly always due to forcible flexion, as from a fall on the back of the hand. Like Codes’ fracture, it may be transverse or slightly oblique, impacted, or com- minuted. The deformity is characterised by an elevation on the dorsum running obliquely upwards from the ulnar to the radial side of the wrist, and caused by the head of the ulna, which remains in position, and the lower end of the upper fragment. Below this, over the position of the lower radial fragment, is a gradual slope on to the dorsum of the hand. Anteriorly there is a prominence in the flexure of the wrist, and the lower fragment may be felt under the flexor tendons. The hand deviates to the radial side, and thereby still further increases the prominence caused by the lower end of the ulna. The radial