594 DISEASES OF BONE. the central axis of the bone in the region of the ossifying junction, although cases are occasionally met with in which it lies nearer the middle of the shaft. In exceptional cases there is more than one abscess. The tibia is the bone most commonly affected, but the lower end of the femur, or either end of the humerus, is frequently the seat of an abscess. In the I quiescent stage the lesion is represented by a small cavity in the bone, filled with clear serum, and lined by a fibrous membrane w'hich is engaged in forming new bone. Around the cavity the bone is sclerosed and the medul- lary canal may be obliterated. When the process goes on to the formation of an abscess, the contents of the cavity are transformed into a greenish-yellow pus from which the staphylococcus can be isolated, and the cavity is lined by a thin film of granulation tissue, which erodes the surrounding bone and so causes the abscess to increase in size. If the erosion proceeds uniformly the cavity is spherical or oval, if it is more active at some points diverticula or tunnels are formed, and one of these may finally erupt through the shell of the bone on a periosteal surface or into an adjacent joint. Small irregular sequestra are occasionally found within the abscess cavity. In long-standing cases it is common to find extensive obliteration of ment of Upper End tJjg medullary canal, and an increase in the of Tibia from an pgj^g fj-Qm new formation by terior. The cavity tlie periosteum. was large enough to The size of the abscess ranges from that contain 16| ounces of a cherry to that of a walnut, but specimens found in museums show that if left to nature, the abscess may attain much greater dimen- sions (Fig. 220.) The affected bone is not only thicker and heavier than normal, but may also be curved or otherwise deformed. The clinical features are almost exclusively local. Pain, due to tension within the abscess, is the dominant symptom. At first it is vague and difficult to localise, later it is referred to the interior of the bone and is described as “boring.” It is aggravated by using the limb, and there are often, especially during the night, exacerbations in which the pain becomes