439 OLD-STANDING DISLOCATIONS. head, being no longer in contact with an o[)i>osiiig cartilage, tends to become converted into fibrous tissue, and may form adhesions with other fibrous structures in its vicinity. By l)ressing on adjacent structures it may form for itself a new socket of dense fibrous tissue which in time becomes lined with a secreting membrane. When the displaced head lies against a bone, the continuous pressure produces a new osseous socket, from the margins of which osteophytic outgrowths may spring, and the surrounding fibrous tissue becoming condensed, forms a strong capsule, and a new joint results. Meanwhile the cartilage of the original socket is converted into fibrous tissue, which may come to fill up the cavity. Changes resembling those of arthritis deformans may occur. The large blood-vessels and nerves in the vicinity may be pressed upon or stretched by the displaced bone, or may be implicated in fibrous adhesions. In course of time they become lengthened or shortened in accordance with the altered attitude of the limb. In many cases the new joint is remarkably mobile and useful; but in others, pain, limited movement, and atrophy of muscles render it comparatively useless and call tor surgical intervention. Treatment. — It is always a difficult lu'oblem to deternune the date after which it is inadvisable to attempt reduction by manipulation, and no rules can be laid down which will cover all cases. Bather must each case be decided on its own merits, due consideration being had to the risks which attend this line of treatment. The chief of these are : rupture of large blood- vessels or nerves which have formed adhesions with the displacetl bone, or have become shortened in adaptation to the altered shaj)e or length of the limb; tearing of muscles or tendons, or even of skin ; fracture of the bone, especially in old people; and separation of epiphyses in the young. Before carrying out the manipulations appropriate to the particular dislocation, all adhesions must first be broken down • and during the jiroceedings no undue force is to be employed. It is sometimes found that the displacement is prone to recur, even after reduction has been successfully accomplished. When reduction by manipulation is inadvisable or has been unsuccessful, the question of operation arises. In this connection it is to be borne in mind that even with an o]>en wound the replacement of the bone is often by no means easy, and it may be necessary to excise the head of the bone. Before deciding to operate, however, the surgeon must consider the amount of disability which the condition entails, and to what extent this is likely to be improved by the operation.