388 MUSCLES, TENDONS, & TENDON SHEATHS. ossifications commonly met with in muscles, tendons, fasciee, and ligaments, in those who are the subjects of arthritis deformans. They are seldom recognised clinically, but are frequently met with in the dissecting-room and in museums. Similar localised ossifications are met with in Charcot’s disease of joints, and in fractures which have repaired with exuberant callus. The new bone may be in the form of spicules, plates, or irregular masses, which, when connected with a bone, are called false or spurious exostoses. Another variety of ossification in muscle is that met with as a result of injury. Ossification in the crureus or vastus externus muscle has been observed chiefly after a severe blow on the thigh—such, for example, as a kick from a horse. Within a week or two a tumour appears at the site of injury, and becomes progressively harder until its consistence is that of bone. If the tumour moves with the affected muscle it causes but little inconvenience. If, as is commonly the case, it is fixed to the subjacent bone, the action of the muscle is impaired, and the patient complains of pain and difficulty in flexing the knee. A skiagram shows the extent of the mass and its relationship to the femur. The treatment consists in excising the bony mass. In some cases a hsematoma with a fibrous wall and smooth lining membrane is found overlying the bony tumour. ' A similar ossification has been observed in the brachialis anticus as a sequel of dislocation of the elbow. After successful reduction of the dislocation, the range of movement gradually diminishes and a hard swelling a}>pears in front of the lower end of the humerus. Ossification in the adductor longus was first described by Billroth under the name of “rider’s bone.” It is due to bruising and partial rupture of the muscle, and has been observed chiefly in cavalry soldiers. It causes no inconvenience except when riding, and is usually discovered accidentally. Ossification in the deltoid and pectoral muscles has been ob- served in foot-soldiers in the German army, and has received the name of “ drill-bone ”; it is due to bruising of the muscle by the kicking of the butt of the rifle. The formation of bone in muscle as a sequel to injury is usually regarded as the result of tearing or detachment of the periosteum. If a portion of periosteum is completely detached it may be drawn away into the muscle and there continue its bone-forming functions. That osteomata are capable of being formed in this way in the substance of muscle has been demon- strated by experiment.