CAUSES OF ULCERS. 79 punclied-out gap which shows a few feeble unhealthy granula- tions and small sloughs on its door. The edges are raised and indurated; and the discharge is thick, glairy, and peculiarly offensive. The parts around the ulcer are congested and of a dark - brown colour. There are usually several such ulcers together, and as they tend to heal at one jjart while they spread at another, the affected area assumes a sinuous or serpiginous outline. Syphilitic ulcers may be met with in any i>art of the body, but are most frequent in the upper part of the leg (Fig. 19), especially around the knee-joint in women, and over the ribs and sternum. On healing they usually leave a depre.ssed and adherent cicatrix. Jiazin’s Disease.—This term is applied to an affection of the skin and subcutaneous tissue which bears certain resemblances both to tuberculosis and to syphilis. It is met with almost exclusively between the knee and the ankle, and it usually affects both legs. It is commonest in young women of delicate con.stitution, in whose family history there is usually marked evidence of a tuberculous taint. The patient often presents other lesions of a tuberculous character, notably enlarged cervical glands and phlyctenular ophthalmia. The tubercle bacillus has, however, rarely been found in the lesions of Bazin’s di.sea.se. The condition begins by the formation in the skin and subcutaneous tissue of dusky or livid nodules of induration, which soften Fig. 19.—Ulcers of Leg and ulcerate, forming small open sores patient suttenng 1 1 ? • 1 1 from Inlierited Sy- witli ragged and undermined edges, not piling unlike those resulting from the breaking down of superficial syphilitic gummata. Fresh crops of nodules appear in the neighbourhood of the ulcers, and in turn break down. While in the nodular stage the affection is sometimes pain- ful, but with the formation of the ulcers the i>ain subsides. The disease is peculiarly intractable, no particular line of treatment yielding satisfactory results. After having lasted for several years, however, the condition u.sually undergoes spontaneous cure. Treatment is directed towards improving the general health, and the jiatient should not be confined to bed. Locally, the X-rays may be employed.