ANEITEYSMS OF INDIVIDUAL ARTERIES. 305 Aneurysmal varix may occur in the neck as a result of stabs, cuts, or gun-shot wounds. The communication is usually between the common carotid and the internal jugular vein. The resulting interference with the cerebral circulation causes headache, giddiness, and other brain symptoms, and a persist- ent loud murmur is usually a source of great annoyance to the patient. If operative treatment is called for, the artery should be ligatured above and below the point of communication. Intracranial aneurysm may involve the internal carotid and its branches, or the basilar artery. These aneurysms appear to be more frequently associated with syphilis and with valvular disease of the heart than are external aneurysms. They are seldom diagnosed from other intracranial tumours during life, as they give rise to no characteristic symptoms, save, in some cases, a loud murmur. They usually prove fatal by rupture and intracranial hajinorrhage. The only available treatment is ligature of the common carotid or of the vertebral artery in the neck. Orbital Aneurysm.—The term pulsating exophthalmos is employed clinically to embrace a number of pathological condi- tions, including aneurysm, in which the chief symptoms are a marked pulsation in the orbit, and protrusion of the eyeball. There may be, in addition, congestion and oedema of the con- tents of the orbit and of the eyelids, and a distinct thrill and murmur, which can be controlled by compression of the common carotid in the neck. Varying degrees of ocular paralysis and of interference with vision may also be present. These symptoms are due, in the majority of cases, to aneurysmal varix of the internal carotid artery and cavernous sinus, which is often traumatic in origin, being produced either by fracture of the base of the skull or by a punctured wound through the orbit. In other cases they are due to aneurysm of the ophthalmic artery, to thrombosis of the cavernous sinus, and, in rare instances, to cirsoid aneurysm. If compression of the common carotid is found to arrest the pulsation, ligature of this vessel is indicated. Subclavian Aneurysm.—Subclavian aneurysm is usually met with in men who follow occupations involving excessive use of the shoulder—for example, dock-porters and coal-heavers. It is more common on the right side. The aneurysm usually springs from the third part of the artery, and appears as a tense, rounded, pulsatile swelling just above the clavicle and to the outer side of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It occasionally extends in the direction of the thorax, VOL. I—20