405 FRACTURES. In a simple or subcutaneous fracture there is no communica- tion, directly or indirectly, between the broken ends of the bone and the surface of the skin. In a compound or open fracture, on the other hand, such a communication exists, and, by furnishing a means of entrance for bacteria, may add materially to the gravity of the injury. A simple fracture may be complicateil by the existence of a wound of the soft parts, which, however, does not communicate with the broken bone. Fractures, whether simple or compound, fall into other clinical groups, according to (1) the degree of damage done to the bone, (2) the direction of the break, and (3) the relative position of the fragments. (1) According to the Degree of Damage done to the Bone.— A fracture may be incomplete — for example, in greenstick fractures which occur only in young persons—usually below the age of twelve—while the bones are still soft and flexible. They result from forcible bending of the bone, the osseous tissue on the convexity of the curve giving way, while that on the con- cavity is compressed. The clavicle, radius, and ulna are the bones which most frequently suffer in this way (Fig. 143). Fissures may occur on the flat bones of the skull, the pelvic bones, or the scapula; or in association with other fractures in long bones (Fig. 96), when they often run into joint surfaces. Clinically they can only be recognised when compound. De- pressions or indentations are most common in the bones of the skull, but sometimes occur in other bones. The bone at the seat of fracture may be broken into several pieces, constituting a comminuted fracture. This usually results from severe degrees of direct violence, such as are sustained in railway or machinery accidents, and from gun-shot wounds. Sub-periosteal fractures are those in which, although the bone is completely broken across, the periosteum remains intact. These are especially common in children, and as the thick periosteum prevents displacement, the existence of a fracture may be overlooked, even in such a bone as the femur. A bone may be broken at several places, constituting a multiple fracture (Fig. 94). Separation of bony processes, such as the coracoid process, the epicondyle of the humerus, or the tuberosity of the os calcis, may result from muscular action or from direct violence. Separation of epiphyses will be considered later. (2) According to the Direction of the Break. — Transverse fractures are those in which the bone gives way more or less