DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. 696 after having been relieved, it is due to overstretching of the ligaments, and the weight should be diminished or removed for a time. If there is deformity, the line of traction should at first be in the axis of the deformed limb, and later should gradually be brought into the normal axis. Flexion yields most readily. If there is abduction, extension should be applied to both limbs, and if there is adduction it may be necessary to apply counter-extension by means of a perineal band. The attitude ultimately desired is one of almost complete exten- sion with slight abduction. When the deformed attitude does not readily yield to ex- tension, there is considei’able advantage in correcting it by forcible manipulations carried out under anaesthesia; but if the tendons and fasciae are so contracted that this is impossible they should be divided. In restless children, to ensure absolute rest in the attitude of extension and slight abduction, additional means may be necessary; a long splint applied on the sound side, and a heavy sand-bag on the affected side ; or, better still, a double long splint and cross-bar. The long splint on the affected side is made with a hinge opposite the hip-joint, to permit of vary- ing the degree of abduction. Any tendency to rotation may be obviated by strips of strong adhesive plaster, wrapped round the thigh in a direction opposed to that of the rotation, and fixed to the long splint or sand-bag. Treatment by extension and the long splint should be con- tinued until pain, tenderness, and muscular contraction have disappeared, and the limb has been brought into the attitude of slight abduction. The joint must be kept at rest, and the affected limb is not allowed to touch the ground. In children who are unable to use crutches, a double Thomas’ splint, a Phelp’s box, a Bonnet’s wire cuirass, or plaster of Paris is employed. By using any of these appliances the child is con- verted into a rigid object, capable of being carried about from one room to another or into the open air. Personally, Ave have obtained the best results from the double Thomas’ splint, like that used for spinal disease, which extends from the occiput to the feet. Ambulant Treatment.—When the patient is able to use crutches, the affected limb is prevented from touching the ground by fixing a patten to the sole of the boot on the sound side. The hip-joint is kept rigid in the abducted position by a Thomas’ (Fig. 265) or a Taylor’s splint, or by a case of plaster of Paris. The plaster is used chiefly in hospital out-patients