278 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. contrary, the upper part of the saphena and its valves are intact, and only the more distal veins are involved, the pressure is low and the symptoms are less severe. The usual complaint is of a sense of weight and fulness in the limb after prolonged standing or walking, sometimes accompanied by actual pain, from which relief is at once obtained by raising the limb. Cramp-like pains are often associated with varix of the deep veins. The dilated and tortuous vein can be readily seen and felt. Bead-like swellings are sometimes to be detected over the position of the valves in cases of long standing, and on running the fingers along the course of the vessel a firm ridge, due to periphlebitis, may often be detected on each side of the vein. When the limb is oedematous, the outline of the veins is often obscured, but they can be identified on palpation as gutter-like tracks. When large veins are implicated, a distinct impulse on coughing may sometimes be seen to pass down as far as the knee; and if the vessel is sharply percussed a fluid wave may be detected passing both up aiid down the vein. If the patient is placed on a couch and the limb elevated, the veins are emptied, and if pressure is then made over the region of the saphenous opening and the patient allowed to stand up, so long as the internal saphena system alone is involved, the veins fill again very slowly from below. If the external saphena system also is involved, and if communicating branches are dilated, the veins fill up from below more rapidly. When the pressure over the sa2:»henous ojjening is removed, the blood rapidly rushes into the varicose vessels from above. The most marked dilatation usually occurs on the inner side of the limb, between the middle of the thigh and the middle of the calf, the arrangement of the veins showing great variety (Figs. 60, 61). There are usually one or more bunches of enlarged and tortuous veins in the region of the knee, and sometimes at the ankle. Frequently a large branch establishes a communication between the systems of the internal and external saphenous veins in the region of the popliteal space, or across the front of the up2)er part of the tibia. The su2)erficial position of this last branch and its iJi'oxiinity to the bone render it very liable to injury. The small veins of the skin often show as fine blue streaks arranged in a stellate or arborescent manner. This is most often observed in women who have borne children.