DISEASES OF MUSCLE AND TENDONS. 387 connective-tissue framework of tlie muscle and degeneration of its fibres, or in suppuration and the formation of one or more abscesses in the muscle substance. Repair may be associated with contracture. An evanescent form of myositis attended with considerable pain, may be met with as a result of infection with gonococci. In the early secondary i)eriod of si/philis, the muscles may be the seat of dull, aching, nocturnal pains, especially in the neck and back. Reference must also be made to what is known as syphilitic contracture, a condition which has been observed chiefly in the later secondary period. The biceps of the arm, and the hamstrings in tlie thigh, are the muscles most commonly affected. The striking feature is a gradually increasing difficulty of ex- tending the limb at the elbow or knee, and progressive flexion of the joint. The affected muscle is larger and firmer than normal, and its electric excitability is diminished. In tertiary syphilis, individual muscles may become the seat of interstitial myositis or of gummata, and these affections readily yield to anti-syphilitic remedies. Tuberculous disease in muscle, while usually due to extension from adjacent tissues, is sometimes the result of a primary infec- tion through the blood-stream. Tuberculous nodules are found disseminated throughout the muscle. The surrounding tissues are indurated, and central caseation may take place and lead to abscess formation and sinuses. We have observed this primary form of tuberculous disease in the gastrocnemius and in the psoas—in the latter muscle apart from tuberculous disease in the vertebrae. Tendinitis.—German authors describe an inflammation of tendon as distinguished from inflammation of its sheath and give it the name tendinitis. It is met with most frequently in the tendo Achillis in gouty and rheumatic subjects who have overstrained the tendon, especially during cold and damj) weather. There is localised pain, aggravated by walking, and the tendon is sensitive and swollen from a little above its insertion to its junction with the muscle. Gouty nodules may form in its sub- stance. In addition to constitutional measures, massage, and douching, the tendon should be protected from strain. The foot having been placed in the attitude of slight i)lantar flexion, a broad strip of plaster is applied from the middle of the calf, over the heel to the middle of the sole, and over this additional strips are applied at right angles to it. Ossification in Muscles, Tendons, and Fasciae — Myositis Ossificans.—Reference may be made in the first place to the