I6I ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. contact from another individual, and the incubation period is a short one of from two to five days. The sores are most often situated in the vicinity of tlie fnenum of the prepuce, and, in women, about the labia minora or fourchette; they i)robably originate in abra.sions in tliese situations. They appear as imstules wliich are rapidly converted into small, acutely inflamed ulcers which have sharply cut, irregular margins, and yield an abundant yellow })urulent discharge. They are devoid of the character- istic induration of syphilis, are jjainful, and nearly always multiple, reproducing themselves in successive crops by auto- inoculation. Soft sores are frequently complicated with phimosis and balanitis, and they fre(|uently lead to infection of the glands in the groin. The resulting bubo is very different from that associated with syidiilis ; it is ill-defined, painful, and very tender, and suppuration occurs in about one-fourth of the cases. The overlying skin becomes adherent and red, and sup})uration takes place either in the form of separate foci in the interior of the individual glands, or around them; in the latter case on incision the glands are found lying bathed in i)iis. Ducrey’s bacillus is found in a large proportion of the buboes associated with soft sores, and in these the wound, after incision, takes on the characters of a soft sore. Soft sores heal rapidly when kept thoroughly clean. They should be washed with i>eroxide of hydrogen, and dusted with an antiseptic powder such as a mixture of one paid iodoform and two parts boracic or salicylic acid, or, when the odour of iodoform is objected to, of equal parts of boracic acid and carbonate of zinc. The sore is then covered. with a piece of gauze kept in position by drawing the prepuce over it, or by a few turns of a narrow bandage. If the sores spread in spite of this, they should be painted with cocaine and then cauterised. If there is phimosis with balanitis, the prepuce must either be washed out at frequent intervals or removed by circumcision ; in the latter case bluestone should be rubbed into the raw surface made at the operation lest it also should take on the characters of a soft sore. When the glands in the groin become inflamed the patient must be confined to bed and a dressing impregnated with ichthyol and glycerin (ten per cent.) applied. When suppuration takes place, the pus must be let out by one or more incisions parallel to Poupart’s ligament, any undermined skin cut away, and if the glands are found lying- exposed in the abscess cavity they should be enucleated with the sharp spoon. The cavity is lightly packed with iodoforiii worsted. VOL. I—11