242 CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF INJURIES. hurried; consciousness gradually fades away, and he falls in a ; heap on the floor. ; Sometimes vomiting ensues before the patient completely j loses consciousness, and the muscular exertion entailed may ward off the actual faint. This is frequently seen in threatened syncopal attacks during chloroform administration. Recovery begins in a few seconds, the patient sighing or gasping, or, it may be, vomiting; the strength of the pulse gradually increases, and consciousness slowly returns. In some : cases, however, syncope is fatal. Treatment.—The head should at once be lowered—in imitation of nature’s method—to encourage the flow of blood, to the brain, the patient, if necessary, being held up by the heels. All tight clothing, especially round the neck or chest, must be loosened. The heart may be stimulated reflexly by dashing cold water over the face or chest, or by rubbing the face vigorously with a rough towel. The application of volatile substances, such as ammonia or smelling-salts, to the nose; the administration by the mouth of sal-volatile, whisky or brandy, and the intramuscular in- jection of ether, are the most speedily efficacious remedies. In severe cases the application of hot cloths over the heart, or of the faradic current over the line of the phrenic nerve, just above the clavicle, may be called for. Shock is a profound lowering of the vital activity following almost immediately on the receipt of some injury in a previously healthy person. Various factors are at work in the production of shock. It may be due to intense mental emotion, with or without an associated injury. Even slight injuries to unimportant tissues may be followed by severe shock, but, other things being equal, the more severe the injury and the more vital the organ affected the greater is the shock. Loss of blood also increases the severity ^ of shock. Damage to parts richly supplied with nerves—especially '■ those derived from the sympathetic system, such as the abdominal , or thoracic viscera—is usually attended with profound degrees of shock. Pain is certainly a factor, although in many cases the , severity of the shock bears no direct relation to the intensity of the pain. Persons with a highly strung nervous system suffer more from shock than do those of a more phlegmatic temperament. Shock is always a risk to be reckoned with in j operations on young children, for while many suffer little from shock even after severe operations, others, with much less cause, succunib to it. When the injured person’s mind is absorbed with other