H.EMOPHYLIC JOINT. 669 practised with success in the hip, knee, elbow, and temporo- niaxillary joints. A course of treatment at one of the reputed spas—Aix, Bath, Buxton, Gastein, Harrogate, Wiesbaden, Wildbad—is often of great service. The patient should be nourished well, and there need be no restriction in the diet sirch as is required in gouty patients, so long as the digestion is not imi)aired. Benefit is also derived from the administration of cod-liver oil, and of tonics, such as strychnine, arsenic, and iron, and in some cases of iodide of potassium. Haemophylic or Bleeder’s Joint.—This is a rare but char- acteristic affection, met with chiefly in the knee-joint of boys and young adult males who are the subjects of the haemorrhagic diathesis. The first haemorrhage into the joint originates suddenly after some trivial injury or without apparent cause. The temperature is often elevated (101°, 102° F.), especially if there are also haemorrhages elsewhere in the body. The jiatient is usually anaemic. The joint is swollen, flexed, and as at first there is considerable pain the patient is obliged to lie up. In a few days everything settles down again, the blood in the joint is reabsorbed, and ecchymoses become visible. After repeated haemorrhages the joint becomes uniformly swollen. The synovial membrane is thickened, abnormally vascular, and coloured brown from the deposit of blood pigment. On the surface, and in parts also on the articular surfaces, there is a deposit of fibrin in process of organisation, adhesions form between opposing surfaces, and there are haemorrhages of different dates in the surrounding muscles. As the swelling of the joint is associated with wasting of muscles, flexion, and stiffness, the resemblance to white swelling is very close—so much so, indeed, that a mistake in diagnosis has been made and the joint subjected to operation with disastrous results. The injection of tuberculin for diagnostic purposes should therefore be had recourse to in doubtful cases. The treatment of a recent haemorrhage consists in securing absolute rest and applying elastic compression. After an interval, measures should be adopted to promote the ab- sorption of blood and to prevent stiffness and flexion; these include gentle massage, passive movements, and extension with the weight and pulley. Chloride of calcium may be ad- ministered internally with the object of preventing a recurrence of the haemorrhage.