124 BACTERIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. ,earth, stable refuse, or street dust. All instruments and appliances used for operations on tetanic patients must be sterilised by prolonged boiling before being put away. Treatment.—When symptoms of the disease have appeared, the indications for treatment are :—(1) To arrest the formation and introduction into the circulation of further supplies of the toxin. To this end the wound must be thoroughly purified by the usual means, the mihealthy walls being bodily excised and the raw surface left sponged over with carbolic acid and dressed with iodoform gauze. Amputation is seldom called for to meet this indication. (2) To promote excretion of the toxins already absorbed by ensuring free action of the bowels, kidneys, and skin. The injection of saline solution into the veins or cellular tissue may be had recourse to with this object. (3) To counteract the toxins already in circulation. — The value of the anti-tetanic serum is still in doubt. While it is true that a degree of immunity may be produced in animals by means of antitoxic serum, there is at present little evidence that any material benefit follows its use in fully developed, acute pro- gressive tetanus in the human subject. The vast majority of the cases in which the serum has been employed and the patient has recovered have been of the chronic type of the disease, which naturally tends to spontaneous cure. In spite of these facts, however, and in view of the success which has followed the use of other sera, we are bound to give the jratient the benefit of what is meanwhile the only rational treatment offering any hope of cure. The earlier the serum is injected the greater is that hope, and the initial dose must be a large one.—not less than 60 c.c. Several smaller doses may subsequently be given within the first twenty-four hours if the symptoms do not abate. The best results hitherto seem to have been obtained by Tizzoni’s serum. In order to bring the antitoxin into direct relation with the central nervous system, it has been injected into the sub- arachnoid space by lumbar puncture. Injection directly into the cranial cavity has been given up on account of the risks attending the procedure. (4) To conserve the patients strength by preventing or diminishing the severity of the spasms.—The patient should be placed in a quiet room, and every form of disturbance rigidly avoided. Sedatives must be given in large doses. Chloral is perhaps the best, and the patient should rarely have less than 150 grains in twenty-four hours. When he is unable to swallow