510 INJURIES OF WRIST AND HAND. lateral ligaments. The deformity is characteristic : the rounded head of the metacarpal projecting behind the level of the joint, while the base of the phalanx forms a prominence among the muscles of the thenar eminence. Reduction is easily effected by making traction on the phalanges and carrying out movements of flexion and extension. The deformity, however, is liable to be reproduced unless a retentive ajiparatus is securely applied. Lateral dislocations of the thumb are very rare. Dislocation of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the fingers may be backward or forward. They are less common than those of the thumb, but present the same general characters. In the backward variety the same difficulty in reduction as is met with in the corresponding dislocation of the thumb sometimes occurs, and is to be dealt with on the same principles. Inter-phalangeal Dislocations.—The middle and the ungual phalanges may be displaced backwards, forwards, or laterally. The clinical features are characteristic, and the diagnosis, as well as reduction, is easy. These dislocations are very frequently compound, and being difficult to render aseptic often necessitate amjmtation. Persistent flexion of the terminal phalanx of the thumb or fingers {drop or mallet finger') may result from violence applied to the end of the digit when in the extended position—as, for example, in attemjJting to catch a cricket-ball. The terminal jjhalanx is flexed towards the palm, and the patient is unable to extend it voluntarily. This condition is of the nature of a sprain, and is usually ascribed to stretching or tearing of the insertion of the tendon of the long extensor. The treatment consists in applying a short anterior splint secured by a few turns of adhesive plaster, to keep the joint extended until the extensor tendon heals. Massage and movement should be employed daily after the first week. When the deformity persists in spite of this treat- ment the tendon may be stitched in position by an open operation (Tubby).