221 WOUNDS. patients where there is the slightest reason to suspect the presence of septic organisms. Glass or rubber tubes are the best drains, but where it is desirable to leave little mark a few strands of horse-hair or of sterilised worsted, or a small roll of protective or rubber tissue, forms a satisfactory substitute. Gauze is not a satisfactory draining material. Exce})t when sepsis occurs, all drains may be removed in from one to four days. The wound should be protected by means of suitable dressings, and the part kept at rest by bandages, splints, or other appro- priate means. Punctured Wounds.—Punctured wounds are produced by narrow, pointed instruments, and the sharper and smoother the instrument the more does the resulting injury resemble an incised wound ; while from more rounded and rougher instru- ments the edges of the wound are always more or less contused or lacerated. The depth of punctured woTinds greatly exceeds their width, and the damage to subcutaneous parts is usually greater than that to the skin. When the instrument transfixes a part, the edges of the wound of entrance may be inverted, and those of the exit wound everted. If the instrument is a rough one, these conditions may be reversed by its sudden "withdrawal. Punctured wounds neither gape nor bleed much. Even when a large vessel is implicated, the bleeding usually takes place into the tissues rather than externally. The risks incident to this class of wounds are: (1) The extreme difficulty of rendering them aseptic on account of the uncertainty as to their depth, and the way in which the surface wound closes on the withdrawal of the instrument. This risk is greater when a dense fascia has been perfoi’ated, as it immedi- ately closes and renders purification or the removal of foreign bodies difficult. (2) Different forms of aneurysm may result from the puncture of large vessels. (.3) Perforation of a joint, or of a serous cavity, such as the abdomen, thorax, or skull, materially adds to the danger. Treatment.—The first indication is to sterilise carefully the whole extent of the wound, and to remove any foreign body which may have been left in it. That thi.s may be done satis- factorily it is usually necessary to enlarge the wound, freely dividing injured fasciae. Blood-clots are cleared out, bruised tissues pared away, and the whole wound-surface purified. Any blood-vessel which is punctured should be cut across and tied, and divided muscles, tendons, or nerves must be sutured. After haemorrhage has been arrested the wound is drained. If septic complications ensue they are met by incisions and drainage.