542 INJURIES IN REGION OF KNEE AND LEG. displacement of the loose epiphysis, but it may pass in any direction, forward being much the most common (Fig. 189). Either condyle may be broken off without the integrity of the shaft being destroyed, by a direct blow or fall on the knee, or by violent twisting of the leg. The separated condyle may not be displaced, or it may be pushed upwards or rotated on its transverse axis. Clinical Features.—When the line of fracture traverses the joint there is an immediate effusion of blood into the synovial cavity. In fractures which are strictly extra-capsular there is frequently a copious effusion of serum into the joint. In either case, therefore, the region of the knee is greatly swollen, and the recognition of the precise nature of the injury is rendered difficult. As it is of the utmost import- ance to arrive at an accurate diagnosis, a general anaesthetic should be given when necessary for this purpose, and, if possible, recourse should be had to the use of the X-rays. In the supra-condylar fracture the upper end of the lower fragment is usually palpable in the pojiliteal space, while the upper fragment is unduly prominent in front. By flexing the knee the fragments may be brought into apposition and crepitus elicited. In oblique fractures the pointed lower end of the upper fragment may transfix the quad- riceps extensor muscle and may be felt under the skin, or it may perforate the skin and thus render the fracture compound. It should be disengaged by fully flexing and making traction on the knee. The thigh is shortened to the extent of fi’om a half to one inch. The popliteal vessels lie so close to the bone, that they are liable to be pressed upon or even torn by the displaced lower fragment. When tliis occurs there is great swelling in the region of the knee, with loss of pulsation in the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and not infrequently gangrene of the limb ensues. There may also be injurious pressure on the nerves. In the T - or Y-shaped fracUire the knee is broadened, and l)ain and crepitus are readily elicited on moving the condyles upon one another, or on pressing them together. On moving Fig. 190.—Separation of Lower Epiphy.sis of Femur, showing backward projec- tion of lower end of diaphysis.