146 TUBERCULOSIS. "infection may exhibit its aggressive qualities in a more serious manner by sending off detachments of bacilli, which are carried by the lymphatics to the nearest glands, or by the blood-stream to more distant, and it may be to all, parts of the body. When the infection is thus generalised, the condition is called general tuberculosis. Considering the extraordinary frequency of localised forms of surgical tuberculosis, general dissemination of the disease is very rare. The clinical features of surgical tuberculosis vary with the situation, distribution, and nature of the lesion. The onset of the disease is usually attended with impairment of the general health and vigour. It is commonly observed that the patient has been losing flesh and is not taking the usual quantity of food. The more advanced symptoms—fever, sweating, and emaciation—are to be ascribed to the absorption and distribution throughout the system of the toxic products, not only of the tubercle bacilli, but also of other, and especially of pyogenic organisms, with which, in its later stages, the tuberculous infection is often complicated. The general treatment consists in combating the adverse influences which have been mentioned as increasing the liability to tuberculous infection. Within recent years the value of the “ open-air ” treatment has been widely recognised. An open- air life, even in the centre of a city, may be followed by marked improvement, especially in the hospital class of patient, whose home surroundings tend to favour the progress of tuber- culous disease. The purer air of places away from centres of population is still better; and, according to the idiosyncrasies of the individual patient, mountain air or that on the sea-coast may be preferred. In view of the possible discomforts and gastric disturbance which may attend a sea-voyage, this should be recommended to patients suffering from tuberculous lesions with more caution than has hitherto been exercised. The diet must be a liberal one, and should include those articles which are at the same time easily digested and nourishing, especially proteids and fats; milk obtained from a reliable source, and underdone meat are among the best. When the ordinary nourishment taken is insufficient, it may be supplemented by such articles as malt extract, stout, and cod-liver oil. The last is specially beneficial in patients who do not take enough fat in other forms. It is noteworthy that many tuberculous patients show an aversion to fat. Cod-liver oil should be given in small quantities until the patient becomes accustomed to it. When the oil in the pure state continues