713 THE KNEE-JOINT. Tlie treatment is directed to meet tlie features of eacJi individual case. The limb is immobilised on a posterior splint. If it is jiroposed to tap the joint, the needle should be introduced obliquely into the supra-patellar pouch. If it is neces.sary to open and drain the joint, the incision is made on one or on l)oth sides of the patella. Even then the infection may continue to progre.ss and threaten the life of the patient, and under these conditions the best procedure is to lay the joint freely open from side to .side by dividing the patellar ligament and capsule; the limb is flexed, the whole wound left open and packed with gauze. As the infection sulisides, the limb is gradually straightened. It is sometimes necessary to make additional incisions over the back of the condyles to drain the large synovial pouches which lie behind the crucial ligaments. If these methods fail, amputation through the thigh is to be had recourse to. Arthritis deformans may affect the knee alone or in combina- tion with other joints. The changes related to the synovial mem- brane attain their maximum development in this joint, and may assume the form of hydrops with or without fibrinous bodies, or of overgrowth of the synovial fringes and the formation of jreduncu- lated loose bcxlies. Fibrillation of the cartilage imparts a feeling of roughness when the joint is grasped during flexion and extension, and lipping of the margins of the trochlear surface of the femur may be felt when the joint is fully Hexed. When a portion of the “ li2)ping ” is broken off it may give ri.se to the symptoms of loose body. In advanced cases with destruc- tion of the cartilages, there may be lateral movement with grating of the articular surfaces. In cases of hydrops, the joint may be tai)2)ed and iodoform injected. When the symijtoms are due to the ^'I’^sence of hy2)ertro2jhied fringes and loose bodies, these may be removed by operation. When the disease is of an aggravated type and is confined to one knee, the question of excising the joint .should be considered. Bleeder's knee, Ckarcot's disease, hysterical knee, and loose bodies in the joint have been described in the chajiter on dis- eases of joints. The Ankle-Joint. There is a common synovial cavity for the ankle and the inferior tibio-fibular joints. The lower ossifying junction of the fibula is included within the limits of this synovial cavity ;