CAUSES OF ULCEES. 75 granulations, and with portions of sloughy tissue adherent to it. Burns and Scalds act in a similar way. Exposure to the Edntgen rays has been followed by a severe form of ulcer. Tlie Pressure of improperly padded splints or other ai/pliances may so far interfere with the local circulation of the part pressed upon that an ulcer is formed. This is most liable to occur in patients who suffer from some nerve lesion—such, for example, as infantile paralysis, or injury of the spinal cord or nerve-trunks. Si)lint-pressure sores are situated over bony ])rominences, such as the malleoli, the condyles of the femur or humerus, the head of the fibula, the dorsum of the foot, or the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. On removing the splint the skin of the part pressed upon is found to be of a red or pink colour, with a pale grey patch in the centre, which eventu- ally sloughs and leaves an ulcer. Similar ulcers are occasionally pro- duced artificially by malingerers and hysterical subjects. Pressure also plays a part in the production of bed-sores. Ulcers due to Imperfect Circida- tion. — Imperfect circulation is an important causal factor in ulcera- tion, especially when it is the venous return which is defective. This is best illusti-ated in the so-called leg ulcer, which occurs most frequently on the front and inner aspects of the Fig. 16.—Chronic Ulcer of Leg. lower third of the leg (Fig. 16). At this point the anastomosis between the superficial and deep veins of the leg is less free than elsewhere, so that the extra stress thrown upon the surface veins interferes with the nutrition of the skin (Hilton). The importance of imperfect venous return in the causation of such ulcers is evidenced by the fact that all methods of treatment are unavailing unless the patient be con- fined to bed and the limb elevated. In a considerable number of cases, but by no means in all, this form of ulcer is associated with the presence of varicose veins, and in such cases it is spoken