198 > TUMOURS. invariably innocent, althougb local recurrence has been occasion- ally observed. The best-known example of endothelioma is the “mixed tumour ” met with in the salivary glands and palate. Angioma, lymphangioma, neuroma, and lymphoma are described with the diseases of the individual tissues. Malignant Connective-tissue Tumours—Sarcomata. The term sarcoma is applied to any connective-tissue tumour which exhibits malignant characters. The essential structural feature is the predominance of the cellular elements over the intercellular substance or stroma, in which respect a sarcoma resembles the connective tissue of the embryo. The typical sarcoma consists chiefly of immature or embryonic connective tissue. While these tumours may grow from any of the con- nective tissues of the body, they originate most frequently from fascia, intermuscular connective tissue, periosteum, bone marrow, and skin. They form rounded or nodulated tumours which appear to be encajisulated, but the capsule merely consists of the condensed surrounding tissues and usually contains sarco- matous elements, because of the tendency of the cells of the tumour to infiltrate the adjacent tissues. The consistence of the tumour depends on the nature and amount of the stroma, and on the presence of degenerative changes. The softer medullary forms of sarcoma are composed almost exclusively of cells; while the harder forms—such as the fibro-, chondro- and osteo-sarcoma— are provided with an abundant stroma and are relatively poor in cells. Degenerative changes may produce areas of softening or liquefaction which form cystic cavities in the interior of the tumour. The colour depends on the amount of blood in the tumour and on the results of degeneration. The blood-vessels constitute a prominent feature in sarcomata, and although some- times possessed of a definite wall, they are usually represented by mere chinks or spaces between the cells of the tumour. This peculiarity accounts for the facility with which haemorrhage takes place into the substance of the tumour, the persistence of the bleeding when the tumour is incised or ulcerates through the skin, and the readiness with which the sarcomatous cells may be carried off into the circulating blood. Sarcomata are devoid of lymphatics, and unless originating in lymphatic structures—for example, in the tonsil—they rarely infect the lymphatic glands. Sarcomata usually infect distant parts through the blood-stream. Minute portions of the tumour