SEPARATION OF EPIPHYSES. 421 Pathological Reparation of Epiphi/ses. — There are certain pathological conditions, such as rickets, scurvy, congenital syphi- lis, tubercle, suppurative conditions, and tumour growths, which render separation of epiphyses liable to occur from injuries altogether insufficient to produce such lesions under normal conditions. Traumatic Separations.^—Speaking generally, it may be said that injuries which in an adult would be liable to produce dislocation, are in a young person more apt to cause separation of an epiphysis. Indirect violence, especially when exerted in such a way as to combine traction with torsion, for example, when the leg is caught in the spokes of a carriage wheel, is the commonest cause of epiphysial separation. Direct violence is a much less frequent cause. Muscular action occasionally pro- duces separation of such epiphyses as the anterior-superior iliac spine, the lesser trochanter of the femur, or the upper libular epiphysis. It would apj)ear that the majority of separations take place l)etween the eleventh and the eighteenth years, chiefly because during this period the injuries liable to i)roduce such lesions are most j)rone to occur. They do not occur after twenty-five, because by that time all the ejiiphyses have united. In females this form of injury is rare, and almost invariably occurs before puberty. The following are the most common seats of separation in the order of their frequeticy ;—(1) The lower end of the femur; (2) the lower end of the radius ; (3) the upper end of the humerus ; (4) the lower end of the humerus; (5) the lower end of the til)ia; and (6) the upper end of the tibia. Morbid Anatomy. — In a true sej)aration the ei)iphysial cartilage remains attached to the epiphysis. As a rule the epiphysis is not completely separated from the diaphysis, the common lesion being a separation along part of the epi])hysial line, with a fracture running into the diaphysis (Fig. 100). It is not uncommon for more than one epiphysis to be separated by the same accident—for example, the lower end of the femur and the upper ends of the tibia and fibnla. Like fractures, epiphysial separations may be simple or compound. Incomplete sei>arations are liable to be overlooked at the time of the accident, but there is reason to believe that they may form the starting-point of various diseases of bones and joints. Strain of the e])iphysial junction—the juxta-epiphysial strain of Ollier— is a common injury in young children. 1 We desire here to acknowledge our indebtedness to Mt'. John Poland's work on Traumatic Separation of the Epiphyses.