101 CLINICAL VARIETIES OF GANGRENE. the toes, especially the great toe, whence it spreads up the foot to the heel, or even to the leg. Although not necessarily traumatic in origin, there is often a history of some slight injury preceding its onset. The vitality of the tissues is so low that the balance between life and death may be turned by the most trivial injury, such as a cut while paring a toe-nail or a corn, a blister caused by an ill-fitting shoe or the contact of a hot-bottle. In some cases the actual gangrene is determined by thrombosis of the popliteal or tibial arteries, which are already narrowed by atheroma. It is common to find that the patient has complained of extraordinarily cold feet, with tingling and loss of feeling, or a peculiar sensation as if walking on cotton wool, for a long time before the onset of definite signs of gangrene. The first evidence of the death of the part varies in different cases. Sometimes a dark-blue spot ap2>ears on the inner side of the great toe and gradually increa.ses in size; or a blister con- taining blood-stained fluid may form. In other cases a small sore surrounded by a congested areola forms in relation to the nail and refuses to heal. Such “ sore-toes ” in old persons are always to be looked upon with suspicion and treated with the greatest care. There is often severe, deep-seated pain of a neuralgic character, with cramps in the limb, and these may persist long after a line of demarcation has formed, or even after the slough has se]>arated. The dying part loses sensibilit}^ to touch and becomes cold and shrivelled. All the physical appearances and clinical symptoms associated with dry gangrene supervene, and the dead portion is thrown off by the formation of a line of demarcation. This is a very slow process, and is always attended with the risk of septic infection taking place. Should this occur, the temperature rises and other evidences of se])tic absorption appear. Prophylaxis.—The toes and feet of old people, the condition of whose circulation predisposes them to gangrene, should be specially protected from slight injuries such as may be received while paring nails, cutting corns, or wearing ill-fitting boots. The patient should also be warned of the risk of exposure to cold, the use of hot-bottles, and of placing the feet near a strong fire. Treatment.—When there is evidence that gangrene has begun, the first indication is to prevent septic infection by thoroughly purifying the part with an efficient antiseptic, and after careful drying to wrap it in a thick layer of absorbent and antisei:)tic wool, retained in place by a loosely applied bandage. A slight